the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students,communityrepresentativesdiscusssafety 
Two groups meet at Robinson Community Learning Center to brainstorm crime prevention ideas, ways to raise awareness 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Crime prevention and stu­dent safety are not the most lighthearted topics to bond 
over, but the Notre Dame and South Bend communities have recently strengthened their relationship through an agreement on the need for safety awareness, espe­cially in the Northeast neighborhoods where many of the University’s off-cam­pus students reside. 
Representatives from the two communities convened Wednesday night at the Robinson Community Learning Center to discuss crime in the area as well as promote awareness about safety in South Bend’s neigh­borhoods. 
“[Safety] unites students and community members,” student body president Grant Schmidt said. “There is no surrounding hostility. It’s a bonding element.” 
Schmidt said the discus­sion about safety is not hos­tile because it avoids con­cerns about off-campus par­ties and other complaints targeting students. 
“This is the true definition of collaboration,” he said. 
City and county law enforcement agents at the meeting addressed specific off-campus safety and crime 


NativeAmericandancers will perform at SMC 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
The sounds of American Indian traditions will fill the air tonight in O’Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College, as The Kevin Locke Native Dance Ensemble will be performing on campus at 7:30 p.m. 
The program will consist of a mix of American Indian tradi­tions such as dance, song and sign language and will include spots for audience interaction. 
According to the Moreau Center’s Arts & Ideas 2009 Fall Season pamphlet, the group will present narratives from “the Plains nations of the Lakota, Anishinabe, and Comanche, the Southeastern tribe Choctaw, and the Woodlands Nations of Ojibwe and Oneida.” 
The goal of the ensemble is to allow the audience to “discover how we can draw from our indi­vidual heritages to create a vibrant, evolving, global civiliza­tion embracing and celebrating our collective heritage.” accord­ing to the pamphlet, 
The event is sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Services and Student Programs at Saint Mary’s and the National Endowment for the Arts, and is open to the public. Tickets cost $12 for adults, $10 for senior citizens, $8 for faculty and staff 
see LOCKE/page 3 
prevention measures, espe­cially neighborhood watch­es. 
“Even though you’re stu­dents … [you should] still take the time to get to know your neighbors,” Corporal Pat Hechlinski said. 
He added that students should be careful not to “advertise what you have” by leaving electronics in car passenger seats in easy view of burglars. 
If students see suspicious activity, Hechlinski said, they should call the police immediately. He emphasized it is the job of the police to determine what constitutes a 
see CRIME/page 3 



Symposium to take place tonight 
Undergraduates will present research in Jordan Hall of Science 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
The coordinators of the Fall Undergraduate Research Symposium (FURS) hope to overcome the per­ception of Notre Dame stu­dents’ inferiority at intellec­tual discussion when stu­dents, faculty and staff gather in the Jordan Hall of Science tonight for presen­tations of student research projects. 
Charley Spear, one of the student coordinators of FURS, said they have been working for more than two months to put tonight ’s event together. 
“This is an opportunity for undergrads at Notre Dame to showcase research they completed over the summer or past semester and to give people a chance to see what’s out there, as well as find out where people got their grant money and internships,” he said. 
Senior Melissa Harintho, another student coordinator, said it would be the most extensive FURS to date. This year’s event combines the traditional FURS program with the Undergraduate Research Internship Information Night (UGRIIN), which normally occurs on a separate date, she said. 
“Tonight hundreds of stu­dents will fill Jordan Hall to participate in an event high­lighting undergraduate research in two oral PowerPoint-style presenta­tions and a Jimmy John’s sponsored poster session in the Jordan Galleria, ” Harintho said. 
In the Jordan Galleria, the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement and Scientia, the College of Science ’s undergraduate research journal, will be hosting informational booths for students, she said. 
In addition, Harintho said two information sessions, hosted by the Department of Biological Sciences and by Notre Dame ’s American Chemical Society chapter, will also take place this evening to discuss summer 
see FURS/page 3 



ND prof. discovers new cancer killing agents 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
A University professor has recently discovered certain chemicals that can kill cancer cells and potentially be used in a new generation of anti-cancer drugs. 
Emeritus Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry Subhash Basu recently announced his findings based on 10 years of research with almost 20 collaborators. During the past decade, Basu and his asso­ciates, including Dr. Rui Ma, Dr. Patrick Boyle and his wife, Dr. Manju Basu, have reported that apoptotic agents such as Tamoxifen and Melphalan will initiate apoptosis, or pro­grammed cell death, in metasta­tic breast and colon cancer cells. 
“Cancer cells are unlike nor­mal cells in that they don’t want to die,” Basu said. “A normal cell goes through a process that ranges from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ with the ‘Z’ being death, but cancer cells obviously never hit ‘Z.’ We found these apoptotic agents start this ‘A’ to ‘Z’ path so we discovered that they can be used to kill can­cer cells.” 
Basu said he and his associ­ates place the apoptotic agents into a liposome, which is com­posed of conjugated nanoparti­cles made of gold, iron oxide or cadium sulfide, resulting in the creation of a “Magic Bullet” that can target several types of can­cer cells. 
Basu believes the combination of the apoptotic agents with a liposome is a breakthrough in the field of anti-cancer drugs. 
“When we administer anti­cancer drugs to patients we have to give them in high doses that kill normal cells as well as cancer cells,” he said. “With the apoptotic agents we would deliv­er them in a hundred times lower level.” 
On Oct. 22, Basu gave a talk at the seventh International Drug Discovery Science and Technology Symposium held in 
see BASU/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Theology professor discusses immigation page 3  Winter fashion review page 12  Women’s basketball feature page 24  Viewpoint page 10 

INSIDE COLUMN 

My Yankee romance 
Remember, remember the fourth of November. The 27th title New York brought. I know of no reason why the 27th victorious season should ever be forgot. 
I will forever remember tonight. And I don’t care how many times you tell me the Yankees had won 26 times already, four times in my lifetime. This one is different, for me. 


For you see, you 

Douglas Farmer 
can fall in love 20 times, but you’ll Assistant never care about Sports anyone in quite the Editor same way you cared about your first girl­friend, the undoubtedly nauseating PDA and all. And for sports fans, true sports fans, winning a title after a prolonged wait is like falling for that first girl­friend. 
I know, nine years hardly counts as a prolonged wait, but you have to realize, I turned 11 the day of the third game in 2000, a game the Yankees lost. I was a Yankees fan, have been since early 1996, but hadn’t yet allowed myself to be gripped by sports. I was 11, I didn’t take anything in life seriously. 
In 2003 I was beginning to realize the place sports held in my life, and I watched the Yankees fall to Josh Beckett and the Marlins. Honestly, it didn’t bother me all that much. 
In 2004, a postseason I don’t talk about much, I was almost 15. And sports, the Yankees, had started to grip me in a unique way. The impossible happened, the Yankees blew a 3-0 series lead to, the, ugh, Red Sox. I was crushed. 
And since then, I have never had a chance to fall for my first girlfriend, but I have waited, somewhat patiently. I always took solace knowing that when the peak came, the valleys would be more meaningful to me. 
As much as I cringe at the remem­brance of the 2004 World Series, I vividly remember how my Red Sox fan of a father treated the closing moments. They hadn’t won in 86 years. He refused to accept the possibility of a title until Doug Mientkiewicz had closed his glove around the ball, the third out of the ninth inning. At which point tears dropped down his cheeks as he called my Red Sox fan of a brother in joy. Had the, ugh, Red Sox won the Series his whole life, my father would never had that moment of euphoria, instead sim­ply many moments of happiness. 
This Word Series title, the 27th in Yankees history, on the fourth of November, to me, will always be my first real title after a prolonged wait. I have waited for the Yankees to win this Series nearly half my life, and through­out all of my time as an avid sports fan. 
This is the team that I fell for like I fell for my first girlfriend sophomore year of high school. I don’t care if they were supposedly bought or cheated. I can rationalize any of it. They got me my title, on the fourth of November. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

An article in the Nov. 4 edition ofThe Observer titled “ND grad elected Gov. of VA” stated only three University alum­ni have previously served as U.S. governors. In addition to those listed, Pedro Rossello, a 1966 graduate, served as gov­ernor of Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory, from 1993 to 2001. The Observer regrets the omission. Also, the Quote of the Day from the Nov. 4 edition was misattributed to Isaac Asimov.The quote was said by George Carlin.The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S THE PRETT EST PART OF CAMPUS? 






Rachel Chisausky  Chris Whelan  Tim Reidy  Laura Bodien  Richard Dominquez  
freshman  freshman  senior  senior  sophomore  
McGlinn  Zahm  off campus  McGlinn  Carroll  
“The  “Zahm House.”  “The Grotto  “The Grotto  “All those lovely  
Leprechaun’s  covered in snow  covered in snow  sculptures we  
calves.”  with a beautiful  with Tim  have.”  
woman.”  Reidy.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

QUENTIN STENGER/The Observer Students walking through the Great Hall of O’Shaughnessy observe the exhibit of abstract sculptures on Wednesday. The sculptures appeared over the weekend. 
OFFBEAT 

Man says image of Jesus appears on truck window 
JOHNSON CITY, Tenn. — Jim Stevens said he’s not particularly religious and is clueless about why an image resembling Jesus Christ keeps appearing on his pick­up. Stevens, of Jonesborough, said nearly every morning, an image that looks to him like the face of Jesus Christ has appeared in the conden­sation on the driver’s side window of his Isuzu truck. A Johnson City Press photo of the truck showed a facial image. 
Stevens said when he first saw the image, he figured it would evaporate and not return. But it kept reappear­ing for two weeks now. 
Stevens said folks at the grocery store he goes to were amazed to see the image. 
He said he isn’t going to wash the truck for a while. 
Man appears alive at own funeral in Brazil 
RIO DE JANEIRO — A Brazilian bricklayer report­edly killed in a car crash shocked his mourning family by showing up alive at his funeral. 
Relatives of Ademir Jorge Goncalves, 59, had identified him as the victim of a Sunday night car crash in Parana state in southern Brazil, police said. 
As is customary in Brazil, the funeral was held the fol­lowing day, which happened to be the holiday of Finados, when Brazilians visit ceme­teries to honor the dead. 
What family members did-n’t know was that Goncalves had spent the night at a truck stop talking with friends over drinks of a sugarcane liquor known as cachaca, his niece Rosa Sampaio told the O Globo newspaper. He did not get word about his own funeral until it was already happening Monday morning. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight FRIDAY GAMEDAY 

IN BRIEF 
The College of Science is host­ing its Fall Undergraduate Research Symposium today at 6 
p.m. in the Jordan Hall of Science. There will also be infor­mation sessions hosted by the Career Center, the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement, and the Biology Club and Notre Dame American Chemical Society. 
The Higgins Labor Studies Program is hosting a workshop on “Labor, The World Social Forum, Global Solidarity & Justice” Friday at noon in the Hesburgh Center. Peter Waterman from The Global Labour Charter Project will be speaking. 
The men’s basketball team will play Quincy Friday in an exhibi­tion game at 7:30 p.m. at the Purcell Pavillion at the Joyce Center. Ticket information is available by calling 574-631­7356. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will host its Alumni Reunion Concert Friday at 8 p.m. with several hun­dred of its alumni at the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The film “Strong Bodies Fight: Rough Cut” will be shown on Friday at the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 9:30 p.m. The film examines the Bengal Bouts box­ing club and its partnership with the Holy Cross Mission in Bangladesh. Tickets are $3 for students and are available at performingarts.nd.edu. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Sunday monday 


Atlanta 69 / 44 Boston 48 / 35 Chicago 45 / 37 Denver 60 / 45 Houston 79 / 56 Los Angeles 75 / 55 Minneapolis 42 / 30 New York 53 / 40 Philadelphia 54 / 41 Phoenix 91 / 64 Seattle 64 / 51 St. Louis 61 / 35 Tampa 84 / 63 Washington 55 / 44 
Theology professor discusses immigration 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
Father Daniel Groody, Professor of theology at Notre Dame, discussed the theological dimensions of immigration dur­ing a lecture on “Crossing the Divide: Foundations of a Theology of Migrations” Wednesday hosted by the Saint Mary’s Department of Social Work. 
“The issue of immigration is often though of in terms of anthropology, sociology, econo­my and political science,” Groody said. “But it also has to do with theology, which is the one we are least aware of.” 
Groody has experience work­ing with immigrants through the parishes where he has con­ducted research in such places as Morocco, Slovakia, Ukraine and Mexico. 
Groody shared the stories of immigrants he has known. He stressed the need to view the experiences of these people through a theological lens and to treat them according to Christian values. 
Groody said he did not deny the need for border restrictions and regulations, but he did con­demn the treatment of immi­grants as less then human. 
“After all, if we look back at our own origins, we all have immigrant roots,” he said. 
In his research, Groody has worked with people on each side of the debate. He explained one side is concerned about order and the security of citizens and the other side wor­ried about the humanitarian plight of immigrants. He said both sides have valid argu­ments. 
“It helps to understand and see the positives in other peo­ple’s viewpoints, even those you most disagree with,” Groody said. 
Groody discussed the idea that immigration is a natural part of life for human beings. He said it is embedded in the Christian faith and gave evi­dence for this from the Bible. He discussed immigration in the time of Abraham, Moses, and even in the life of Jesus. 
“The talk was very informa­tive” Alexis Sontag, a Saint Mary’s junior, said. “I thought it was a very interesting — a new idea, the connection between something as political as immi­gration and theology.” 
Groody’s research can be found in various books and articles in numerous languages. He has also produced several films including “Dying to Live: An Immigrant’s Journey.” 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 
Locke 
continued from page 1 
and $5 for students and chil­dren. 
“The Cultural Affairs Committee and I chose the event because it looked like a powerful, compelling way to experience the visual impact of Native American Dance,” Richard Baxter, director of spe­cial events at Saint Mary’s College, said. “Our Performing Arts Series tries to present a diverse offering of disciplines and styles to the Moreau Center.” 
He also noted this event was quite timely because Kevin 
Crime 
continued from page 1 
crime, not the civilian’s. 
He said potential burglars take note of a police officer responding to a call and driving through the neigh­borhood. 
“People send a message that they are not scared to call the police,” he said. 
He also emphasized the need to take necessary pre­cautions within the home. 
“You also might have to go through your landlord to ask for an alarm system, dead bolts on doors and other safety measures,” he said. 
Locke, the head of the ensem-into the traditions of another ble, was recently nominated for culture,” Saint Mary’s sopho­three Nammy awards. The more, Lauren Metayer, said. 
Nammy’s,  or  “I’m  totally  
“The Native A m e r i c a n Music Awards,” honor those who have  “We are honored to have his company at Saint Mary’s.”  excited to go, not just because it seems fun, but also because I will get to see  
shown great achievement in  Richard Baxter  and learn about a different cul­ 
the  Native  director of special events  ture I’m interest- 

American arts. Locke has been nominated for best artist, best flutist and best record. 
“We are honored to have his 
company  at  Saint  Mary’s,”  
Baxter said.  
Students  and  faculty  

expressed excitement about the event as well. 
“It’s nice to catch a glimpse 
Tim Sexton, associate vice president of Public Affairs at the University, intro ­duced the Northeast Neighborhood Council (NNC), composed of South Bend residents and Notre Dame representatives, as a group that collaborates on safety issues affecting their area. 
He invited students to come forward with their concerns about off-campus safety. 
“We want you to call us,” he said. “Give us ideas and suggestions. We all have to be a part of this effort.” 
Sexton said involvement in efforts like the NNC has never been so high, but they are just the beginning. 
“It ’s time. All of these 
ed in learning 
about,” Eva Cavadini, a Saint Mary’s sopho­more majoring in Theatre and Music, said. “Diversity is a beautiful thing and it’s wonder­ful that Saint Mary’s is offering us this experience.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
folks are committing,” he said. 
Sexton emphasized the need for students to speak 
up because living off  cam­ 
p u s  c o m e s  n o t  o n l y  w i t h  
m o r e  f r e e d o m ,  b u t  a l s o  

more responsibility for per­sonal safety. 
Since taking office, Schmidt, along with student body vice president Cynthia Weber, have made off-cam­pus issues and community relations a focal point. 
“Off-campus students are still Notre Dame students,” Schmidt said. “There are about 1,500 students living off campus, and their issues are just as relevant.” 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
bilities. 

“It may take time for the majority of the student body continued from page 1 to acknowledge what many Notre Dame faculty regularly research opportunities. discuss and what other insti-Biology professor Mark tutions already know — that Olsen, who Notre Dame still worked exten-has a ways to go 
FURS 

“We are trying to 
sively with the in enhancing its UGRIIN pro -draw as many current intellec­gram, said the tual reputation,” 
students as possible
opportunity Harintho said. 
because the
for under -“Nevertheless, graduate stu-opportunities with those who seek dents to to be a part of 
this are fantastic.” 
a t t e n d meeting this tonight’s challenge can 
Mark Olsen 
event is some-begin to do so thing they professor of biology by actively should make engaging in the most of. intellectual dis­
“We are trying to draw stu-cussion outside the class-dents as much as possible room, forming true friend-because the opportunities ships and mentorships with with this are fantastic,” he their professors, and most said. “It’s one thing to hear importantly taking the per-about the opportunity from a sonal responsibility of chal­professor, but it is another to lenging ideas and concepts hear about it from a peer.” on their own — whether it 
Harintho agreed with Olsen be through research, organ-that the opportunities at this izing a conference or simply event are not only a good recording a journal of way to prepare students for thoughts,” she continued. academic futures, but also a way for students to demon-Contact Liz O’Donnell at strate their intellectual capa-eodonne1@nd.edu 
in Shanghai, Basu is slated to “In that time, I’ve raised five or 
give a Plenary lecture at the six million dollars in support of 20th International my research.” continued from page 1 Glycoconjugate Meeting in San He gained $1.5 million of that 
Juan, Puerto Rico, on Dec. 2 sum came when he received Shanghai, China. Basu said the and he has been invited to the Jacob Javits Research reaction from China was posi-speak on his recent findings at Award from the Neurological tive. an international symposium Disease and Stroke Institute in 
“They were pleased with my held in Mumbai, India, on Feb. 1990. During that time, Basu findings but they asked a lot of 6. also worked with international-questions too,” he said. “They Basu said the purpose of ly recognized cancer biologist wanted to know how stable the these talks is to make the scien-Professor Morris Pollard who liposomes are and how we can tific community aware of his has been at Notre Dame for direct the dif-findings as well more than five decades. Basu ferent agents as to seek fund-said he plans to use Pollard’s to the different “You don’t get invited ing for his cancer research in the initial cancer cells. I to speak unless they research. phases of testing the delivery of had to give “You don’t get the apoptotic compounds by 
Basu 
think the work you’re
them a bit of a invited to speak different targeting systems. 
plan.” doing is important.” unless they think Although there are still many Basu said the work you’re years of additional research this plan doing is impor-ahead of him, Basu said he is 
Subhash Basu
included con-tant,” he said. confident in his work and hopes 
emeritus professor of
tinuing his “The talks I give that bringing more awareness 
chemistry and 
research for at are meant to to his findings will prompt fur-least the next biochemistry bring greater ther research by others. five years. notoriety to the “When I give talks I am trying 
“We need to work I’m doing to bring notoriety to what I’m definitely establish that the dif-and we can receive more fund-doing and to also convince peo­ferent anti-bodies in the ‘bullet’ ing from pharmaceutical com-ple that these apoptotic agents go to the different cancer cells,” panies.” can be used as a drug,” he said. he said. “We need to make sure Basu said he is always proud Hopefully, this will encourage that the proper one goes to the to report that he receives his them to do their own research liver, colon and breast; finding funding from outside sources. based on my findings.” this information will take “In almost 39 years on cam-years.” pus, I have yet to take a penny Contact Molly Madden at 
In addition to his recent talk from the University,” he said. mmadden3@nd.edu 


AARP endorses House health care legislation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — In a coup for House Democrats, AARP will endorse sweeping health care overhaul legislation headed for a history-making floor vote, offi­cials told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
An endorsement from the sen­iors' lobby was critical when then-President George W. Bush pushed the Medicare prescrip­tion drug benefit through a closely divided Congress in 2003. House Democratic lead­ers are hoping it will work the same political magic for them as they strive to deliver on President Barack Obama’s sig­nature issue. 
An announcement from the 40-million member group is expected Thursday, said offi­cials with knowledge of the group's decision. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the endorsement is not official yet. 
Backing the 10-year, $1.2 tril­lion House bill is a tricky move for AARP. Many retirees are concerned about cuts in Medicare payments to medical providers, which will be used to finance an expansion of health insurance coverage to millions of working families who now lack it. Also, AARP says its membership is about evenly divided among Democrats, Republicans and independents, meaning its endorsement in today’s highly politicized atmos­phere could anger many mem­bers. 
Floor votes on the House bill could come as early as this weekend. Obama planned to visit the Capitol on Friday, according to congressional offi­cials. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the meet­ings have not been announced. 
Meanwhile, the Congressional Budget Office released an analysis of the House GOP bill that found it would reduce the number of uninsured by just 3 million in 2019. By comparison, the more expansive Democratic bill would gain coverage for 36 million. 
While the Democrats’ bill would cover 96 percent of eligi­ble Americans, the Republican alternative would cover 83 per­cent — roughly comparable to current levels. The budget office said the Republican plan would reduce federal deficits by $68 billion over the 10 year period and push down premiums for privately insured people. 
House Democratic leaders moved on Wednesday to shore up support for the measure among their rank-and-file, even as they sharpened their fight 
with  the  health  insurance  
industry.  
Asked  Wednesday  if  

Democratic leaders had the 218 votes needed for passage, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., responded: “We’re counting. We’re count­ing.” 

Utah oil refinery partially explodes 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY — An explo­sion at a Utah oil refinery — the second this year — smashed windows, bent garage doors and peeled siding Wednesday from 10 nearby houses, officials said. 
Federal investigators expressed alarm over the extent of damages caused by a refinery that has had a history of trouble dating to 2003. 
The U.S. Chemical Safety Board was still investigating a January fire that burned for 11 hours when it dispatched a team to look at Wednesday's blast at Silver Eagle Refinery in Woods Cross, which is five miles north of Salt Lake City. 
In all, 10 homes were dam­aged, said David McSwain, pres­ident of Silver Eagle, a company that operates its only oil refinery in Woods Cross. 
A city building inspector con­demned one house as structural­ly unsound after the blast shifted it off its foundation and knocked lose a roof truss, said Woods Cross Mayor Kent Parry. Officials feared the house could collapse in high winds. 
The blast started in a vessel, called a diesel hydrotreater, that removes sulfur compounds from diesel fuel, said Donald Holmstrom, the Chemical Safety Board’s investigations supervi­sor. 
The refinery in Woods Cross had fires in 2003, 2005 and 2007, according to federal records. The board also was looking into an Oct. 21 fire at a nearby Tesoro Corp. refinery. 
“We’re concerned about the number of refinery accidents,” said Daniel Horowitz, a spokesman for the board. “Counting this case, that’s eight refinery cases open right now, with three in Salt Lake. It’s a number we’re concerned about.” 
The safety board, which is an investigative agency that has no regulatory or enforcement power, has faulted a decade of lax regulation by another federal agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, for recent troubles among U.S. refineries. 
OSHA has said it was catching up on refinery inspections. In a recent report, OSHA said that 
U.S. oil refineries have had more fatal or catastrophic releases of hazardous chemicals in the past 15 years than any other part of the chemical industry. 
Silver Eagle executives said Wednesday that their safety record was “smack in the mid­dle” of Utah’s five refineries. 
“I’ll tell you we have spent a large amount a money on safety ... programs at the refinery,” said McSwain. 
Krege Christensen, a Silver Eagle vice president, said his company believed a utility out­age Wednesday led to trouble at multiple refineries, but Rocky Mountain Power said it didn’t cause the problem. 
Utility spokesman Dave Eskelsen said the explosion at Silver Eagle briefly knocked out a 46,000-volt transmission line, leading to emergency measures at that refinery and two others. 
Winner in space elevator contest 
Associated Press 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE 
— A robot powered by a ground-based laser beam climbed a long cable dangling from a helicopter on Wednesday to qualify for prize money in a $2 million com­petition to test the potential reali­ty of the science fiction concept of space elevators. 
The highly technical contest brought teams from Missouri, Alaska and Seattle to Rogers Dry Lake in the Mojave Desert, most familiar to the public as a space shuttle landing site. 
The contest requires their machines to climb 2,953 feet (nearly 1 kilometer) up a cable slung beneath a helicopter hov­ering nearly a mile high. 
LaserMotive’s vehicle zipped up to the top in just over four minutes and immediately repeat­ed the feat, qualifying for at least a $900,000 second-place prize. 
The device, a square of photo voltaic panels about 2 feet by 2 feet and topped by a motor struc­ture and thin triangle frame, had failed to respond to the laser three times before it was low­ered, inspected and then hoisted back up by the helicopter for the successful tries. 
LaserMotive’s two principals, Jordin Kare and Thomas Nugent, said they were relieved after two years of work. They said their real goal is to develop a business based on the idea of beaming power, not the futuristic idea of accessing space via an elevator climbing a cable. 
“We both are pretty skeptical of its near-term prospects,” Kare said of an elevator. 
The contest, however, demon­strates that beaming power works, Nugent said. 
“Anybody who needs power in one place and can't run wires to it — we’d be able to deliver power,” Kare said. 
Earlier out on the lakebed, team member Nick Burrows had pointed out how it grips the cable with modified skateboard wheels and the laser is aimed with an X Box game controller. 
It had never climbed higher than 80 feet previously, he said. 
The day’s competition began late after hours of testing the cable system, refueling the heli­copter and waits for specific time windows in which the lasers can be fired without harming satel­lites passing overhead. 
The Kansas City Space Pirates went first with a machine that initially balked but eventually began climbing. Its speed was too slow to qualify for any prizes but it got within about 160 feet of the top before the laser had to be shut down for satellite protec­tion. 
Ben Shelef, CEO of the contest-sponsoring Spaceward Foundation, said the Pirates had a minor laser tracking problem but the real problem appeared to be in the mechanical system. 
As the afternoon grew late, the University of Saskatchewan's Space Design Team had to put off its attempts until Thursday. All three teams had further chances to qualify through Friday. 
The competition was five years in the making, Shelef said. 
“A lot of hurdles to cross,” he said. “Now that it’s happening I’m actually happy already. It doesn’t matter what the outcome is.” 
Funded by a NASA program to explore bold technology, the con­test is intended to encourage development of a theory that originated in the 1960s and was popularized by Arthur C. Clarke’s 1979 novel “The Fountains of Paradise.” 
Space elevators are envisioned as a way to reach space without the risk and expense of rockets. 
Instead, electrically powered vehicles would run up and down a cable anchored to a ground structure and extending thou­sands of miles up to a mass in geosynchronous orbit — the kind of orbit communications satel­lites are placed in to stay over a fixed spot on the Earth. 
Electricity would be supplied through a concept known as “power beaming,” ground-based lasers pointing up to photo volta­ic cells on the bottom of the climbing vehicle — something like an upside-down solar power system. 
The space elevator competition has not produced a winner in its previous three years, but has become increasingly difficult. 
The vehicles must climb at an average speed of 16.4 feet (5 meters) per second, or about 11 miles (18 kilometers) per hour, to qualify for the top prize. A lesser prize is available for vehicles that climb at 2 meters per second. 
The rules allow one team to collect all $2 million or for sums to be shared among all three teams depending on their achievements. 


World & Nation 
Thursday, November 5, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Leaders discuss climate change 
LONDON — British Prime Minister Gordon Brown and Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva have met for talks on climate change, the Group of 20’s role in global financial reform, and Olympic cooperation. 
Brown’s office said Wednesday that the pair discussed the upcoming U.N. climate change conference in Copenhagen. Silva has lobbied for rich countries like Britain to put up substan­tial sums of money to help poorer countries strike a deal on curbing global greenhouse gas emissions at the December conference. 
Brown and Silva also discussed the world economic situation and how Britain and Brazil could share know-how ahead of the Olympic Games. London hosts the Games in 2012 and Rio de Janeiro four years later. 
Karzai challenges results of re-election 
KABUL — The challenger in Afghanistan’s recent election called President Hamid Karzai’s victory illegal and his government a failure, saying Wednesday that the tainted administration would not be able to check corruption or fend off the Taliban. 
Former Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah said he did not plan to personally challenge Karzai’s victory in court, but would leave it up to the Afghan people to decide whether to accept Karzai as the legit­imate leader for another five-year term. 
The Afghan election commission pro­claimed Karzai the victor of the country’s tumultuous ballot on Monday after Abdullah withdrew from a runoff race. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Swine flu confirmed in feline 
DES MOINES, Iowa — A 13-year-old Iowa cat has been infected with swine flu, veteri­nary and federal officials said Wednesday, and it is believed to be the first case of the H1N1 virus in a feline. 
The domestic shorthaired cat was treated last week at Iowa State University College of Veterinary Medicine in Ames and has recov­ered, officials said. The virus also has been confirmed in two ferrets — one in Oregon and the other in Nebraska — but they died. 
“We’ve known certainly it’s possible this could happen,” said Centers for Disease Control and Prevention spokesman Tom Skinner. “This may be the first instance where we have documentation that trans­mission occurred involving cats or dogs.” 
Man to be removed from sex registry 
DETROIT — The Michigan appeals court ordered a man removed from the state’s sex-offender registry Wednesday, saying it was cruel punishment for a young “Romeo” who had a consensual relationship with a teen and later became her husband. 
Robert Dipiazza’s lawyer said there are other men like her client who are on the list and could be removed because of the decision. 
“It’s a victory for common sense,” Miriam Aukerman said. “Teens in romantic relation­ships shouldn’t be labeled as sexual preda­tors.” 
In 2004, Dipiazza was 18 when he had a consensual sexual relationship with a girl who was nearly 15. A teacher saw a photo­graph of him with his hand on her breast and contacted authorities in Muskegon County. 
LOCAL NEWS 

FEMA rejects disaster aid appeal 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Federal Emergency Management Agency has again turned down a request for assistance to southern and cen­tral Indiana residents affected by severe storms in August. 
The Indiana Department of Homeland Security said Wednesday that FEMA officials had denied an appeal of the agency’s previ­ous decision. Gov. Mitch Daniels appealed the decision last month, including additional damage reports from residents. 
The federal disaster aid for areas hit by storms Aug. 4-9, some of which dumped up to 10 inches of rain in some locations. 
ITALY 

Judge delivers verdict in CIA case 
23 Americans and two Italians are found guilty for the kidnapping of suspect 
Associated Press 

MILAN — An Italian judge found 23 Americans and two Italians guilty Wednesday in the kidnap­ping of an Egyptian terror suspect, delivering the first legal convictions anywhere in the world against people involved in the CIA’s extraordinary renditions program. 
Human rights groups hailed the decision and pressed President Barack Obama to repudiate the Bush administration’s prac­tice of abducting terror sus­pects and transferring them to third countries where torture was permitted. 
The Obama administra­tion ended the CIA’s inter­rogation program and shut­tered its secret overseas jails in January but has opted to continue the prac­tice of extraordinary rendi­tions. 
The Americans, who were tried in absentia, now cannot travel to Europe without risking arrest as long as the verdicts remains in place. 
Despite the convictions capping the nearly three-year Italian trial, several Italian and American defendants — including the two alleged masterminds of the abduction — were then-Rome CIA station chief each received a five-year sen-betrayal of our diplomatic acquitted due to either Jeffrey Castelli and two tence. Two Italians got three and military representa­diplomatic immunity or other diplomats formerly yearseachasaccessories. tives overseas.” because classified informa-assigned to the Rome U.S. State Department Romano, who was one of tion was stricken by Italy’s Embassy, as well as the for-spokesman Ian Kelly said only two Americans who highest court. mer head of Italian military the Obama administration received permission to hire 
The case has been politi-intelligence Nicolo Pollari was “disappointed about his own lawyer, had tried to cally charged from the and four other Italian the verdicts.” have the jurisdiction moved beginning, with attempts to secret service agents. The State Department is to a U.S. military court in mislead investigators look-Only two Italians were in being sued by De Sousa, a the last weeks of the trial. ing into the cleric’s disap-the courtroom to hear the former State Department “We are clearly disappointed pearance and derail the verdict, including Marco employee who denies she by the court’s ruling,” Defense judicial proceedings once Mancini, the former No. 2 was a CIA agent and who Department press secretary the trial was under way. at Italian military intelli-believes she should have Geoff Morrell told a Pentagon But the Italian-American gence, who embraced his been granted diplomatic pressconferenceWednesday. relationship, conditioned on lawyer outside the court-immunity by U.S. officials. The Americans, all but such issues as participation room after he was acquitted. The judge’s verdict, howev-one identified by prosecu­in the Afghan campaign, is Former Milan CIA station er, did not extend diplomat-tors as CIA agents, were unlikely to be hurt by the chief Robert Seldon Lady ic immunity to consular tried in absentia as subse­convictions. The American received the top sentence of officials charged. quent Italian governments Civil Liberties Union said eight years in prison. The Mark Zaid, the American refused or ignored prosecu­the verdicts were the first other 22 convicted American lawyer for De Sousa, told tors’ extradition request — convictions stemming from defendants, including a for-The Associated Press in a position that casts doubts the rendition program. mer Milan consular official, Washington: “The Italian on the Italian government’s 
Three Americans were Sabrina De Sousa and Air conviction merely confirms political will to enforce the acquitted, including the Force Lt. Col. Joseph Romano, the U.S. government’s sentences. 


Restraining order put on abortion law 
never enforced because of various young women across the state of 
Associated Press 
court actions. It requires doctors to Illinois,” spokesman Ed Yohnka said. 

CHICAGO — An Illinois judge has notify the parents or guardians of Peter Breen, executive director of issued a temporary restraining order girls 17 or younger 48 hours before a the Chicago-based Thomas Moore delaying enforcement of a law requir-teen gets an abortion. There are pro-Society Pro-Life Law Center, said the ing doctors to notify parents of teens visions that allow girls to bypass group was “heartened” by the board’s who are seeking an abortion. parental notification. decision. Teenagers from surrounding 
The order issued Wednesday was Thirty-five other states have similar states were skirting their own states’ sought by the American Civil Liberties laws, which meant some teens seek-laws “on a pretty regular basis” by Union. It is to remain in effect until ing abortions came to Illinois for coming to Illinois to get abortions, the judge can hear arguments on the them. Breen said. group’s opposition. The American Civil Liberties Union “It’s about parents and kids talk-
It came just hours after the state’s of Illinois planned to ask a Cook ing,” Breen said. “No one should be Medical Disciplinary Board voted not County judge on Wednesday for a against this.” to extend a 90-day grace period put temporary restraining order to keep The law requires doctors to notify into place in August, meaning the law the state from enforcing the law. the parents or guardians of girls 17 or would have taken effect. “What we’re focused on now is pro-younger 48 hours before the teens get 
Illinois’ law was passed in 1995 but tecting the health and well being of abortions. 
Panel votes for stronger regulators 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The House Financial Services Committee voted Wednesday to give federal regulators more power and money to police major players in the stock market, four months after Bernard Madoff was sen­tenced for the biggest invest­ment scam in history. 
The 41-28 vote was the panel's latest move to try to rein in abuses on Wall Street. It would give the Securities and Exchange Commission new enforcement powers, including the ability to offer bounty money to tipsters on fraud cases and the power to bar violators of the law from employment in any securities-related industry. 
The bill also would double the SEC’s budget in the next five years. 
Rep. Paul Kanjorski sponsored the legislation after leading the panel’s investigation into the government’s failure to uncover Madoff's massive fraud scheme for nearly two decades. Madoff was sentenced in June to 150 years in prison. 
“In the last five years, there’s been a significant change and a greater sophistication in the financial service industry than has ever happened in the history of mankind,” said Kanjorski, a Pennsylvania Democrat. “So we’re going to have to change fast.” 
The proposal was part of a broader effort by the committee to tighten rules governing finan­cial institutions after last year’s market crisis. The full House was expected to vote on the bill and related proposals in early December. 
In addition to giving the SEC more power, the committee has voted to impose new restrictions on investment rating agencies and require oversight of hedge funds and other large pools of private capital. 
The panel also wants a new federal agency dedicated solely to protecting consumers from fraud and abuse on credit cards, mortgages and other popular financial products. 
Also Wednesday, Rep. Barney Frank, the panel’s chairman, indicated he wants to tighten legislation already approved by his committee that seeks to reg­ulate the complex, privately traded derivative markets. In a letter to top government finan­cial overseers, Frank said he wants to eliminate possible loop­holes that would allow some financial institutions to avoid regulatory scrutiny. 
The legislation requires deriv­atives trades to go through clearinghouses to increase transparency, and subjects financial firms dealing in the instruments to new capital requirements. The legislation gave clearinghouses the authori­ty to decide what contracts were eligible for central clearing. Frank now wants regulators to wield that power. 
As the House moves ahead to overhaul financial regulations, work in the Senate was just get­ting under way. Senate Banking Chairman Christopher Dodd has begun drafting a bill that would differ from the Obama adminis­tration’s proposal by limiting the power of the Federal Reserve and consolidating banking supervision into a single regula­tor. 

Warren, Reader’s Digest part ways 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Calif. — A joint publishing venture between influential pastor Rick Warren and Reader’s Digest magazine has col ­lapsed less than a year after it was announced with great fanfare. 
The multimedia project, called the Purpose Driven Connection, will continue in a different form but be oper­ated solely by Warren ’s Saddleback Church in Southern California starting next spring, church officials said Wednesday. 
A quarterly print magazine of the same name will pub­lish for the last time in mid-November, and its content will move to a free, expanded Web site starting in January, Warren said in a statement. 
“The positive response from readers was so over­whelming we didn't want the content to be limited only to Americans who could afford a subscription to a maga ­zine,” Warren said. 
The announcement comes months after Reader’s Digest Association Inc. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy pro­tection as it faced falling print circulation and looming debt payments. The Warren project, when unveiled, was portrayed as a partnership of two powerhouses — and a way for Reader’s Digest to find new revenue. Company officials did not immediately respond to requests for com­ment Wednesday. 
The recession and chang­ing reader habits have prompted cutbacks at many magazines, and some have folded. 
Warren, author of the best­selling “The Purpose Driven Life,” said subscriptions to the print magazine were lag­ging. For $29.99 a year, sub­scribers received the maga­zine, a workbook, DVD cur­riculum for church small group meetings and access to special features on a Web site. 
Brian Bird, managing edi­tor of the magazine and Web site, said subscriptions were between 2,500 and 5,000 per month. 
“I imagine (Reader’s Digest officials) were hoping for this to explode, and it didn ’t explode,” Bird said. “But it’s had slow, steady growth. It takes a long time for any­thing to really grow, espe­cially in a competitive media culture.” 
JPMorgan settles with SEC 
Company agrees to pay more than $700 million for “pay-to-play” charges 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — JPMorgan Chase & Co. has agreed to a settlement worth more than $700 million over federal regu­lators’ charges that it made unlawful payments to friends of public officials to win munic­ipal bond business in Jefferson County, Ala. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday announced the settlement with JPMorgan, which canceled interest-rate swap contracts with the county worth $700 million in March. The move lowers the county’s bond debt to about $3.2 billion from $3.9 billion, but officials had no immediate comment on whether that was enough to help the county avoid filing what would be the largest municipal bankruptcy ever. 
The Wall Street bank did not admit or deny the SEC allega­tions in agreeing to pay a $25 million civil fine and a $50 mil­lion payment to the county, and to forfeit $647 million in termi­nation fees it claims the county owes from the canceled swap agreements. JPMorgan also was censured and agreed to refrain from future violations of the securities laws. 
Regulators have issued warnings for years over so-called “pay-to-play” relation­ships between investment firms and government officials in the $2.7 trillion municipal bond market, tapped by state and local governments around the country to finance schools, roads, hospitals and public works projects. The Jefferson County scandal has roiled Alabama’s most populous county and last week brought the federal bribery conviction and ouster of Birmingham’s mayor. 
In a civil lawsuit filed Wednesday, the SEC also accused two former managing directors of JPMorgan, Charles LeCroy and Douglas MacFaddin, of securities law violations. The agency is seek­ing unspecified restitution from them. They plan to contest the charges. 
The SEC alleged that JPMorgan, LeCroy and MacFaddin made about $8.2 million in undisclosed pay­ments in 2002 and 2003 to close friends of several Jefferson County commission­ers. The money went to local brokerage firms whose princi­pals or employees were friends of the county officials, the SEC said. Starting in July 2002, LeCroy and MacFaddin solicit­ed the county for a $1.4 billion sewer bond deal. 
Swayed by the payments, the county commissioners voted to select JPMorgan’s securities division as managing under­writer of the bond offerings and its affiliated bank as swap provider for the transactions, the SEC said. 
The $5 billion in municipal bond business and swap agree­ments awarded to JPMorgan was the largest such deal in its securities division's history, according to the SEC. 
JPMorgan failed to disclose any of the unlawful payments or conflicts of interest in the bond offering documents, but passed on the cost of the pay­ments by charging the county higher interest rates on the swap transactions, the SEC said. 
“The transactions were com­plex but the scheme was sim­ple,” SEC Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami said in a statement. “Senior JPMorgan bankers made unlawful payments to win busi­ness and earn fees.” 
MacFaddin’s attorney, Richard Lawler, said his client “has at all times acted proper­ly" in his dealings with Jefferson County. He denies he has violated any securities laws and we're confident he’ll be vindicated after trial,” Lawler said. 
LeCroy’s lawyer, Lisa Mathewson, said he “believes that the SEC has overreached with this complaint, both by overstating its jurisdiction and by labeling permissible busi­ness practices as fraudulent.” 
New York-based JPMorgan said in a statement it has since discontinued its municipal swap-exchange business. The settlement with the SEC “does not impair any outstanding Jefferson County bonds and JPMorgan continues to work to achieve a responsible restruc­turing of Jefferson County's financial affairs,” the state­ment said. 
The SEC last year charged now-ousted Birmingham mayor Larry Langford and two others for undisclosed pay­ments to Langford related to municipal bond offerings and swap agreement transactions made while he was president of the Jefferson County Commission. On Oct. 28, Langford was found guilty in the related criminal case on 60 counts of bribery, mail fraud, wire fraud and tax evasion. 

The Observer 

Business
Thursday, November 5, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Whole Foods sees profit jump 
PORTLAND, Ore. — Whole Foods Market Inc. appears to be adjusting to its new eco­nomic reality. 
The natural and organic grocer, known for its high-end products and similarly high prices, says lower prices are bringing shop­pers back in its doors, driving a surge in fourth-quarter profit. 
Whole Foods said Wednesday that shoppers bought more items in its stores, but continued pressure to compete on price and uncertain economy made some investors nervous about its outlook for the year. 
Whole Foods, based in Austin, Texas, was hard hit by the recession as consumers cut spending and turned to lower-priced stores. The company made several strategic changes 
— cutting costs, tightening inventory, securing a major investor, increasing its store brands and promoting other lower-priced options. It also created a new system to track competi­tors' prices and help it adjust its own. 
Casino competition could raise taxes 
INDIANAPOLIS — Ohio voters have approved the opening of casinos in Toledo and three other cities, leaving officials and gambling interests in neighboring Indiana and Michigan worried that millions of dollars in gambling revenues — and taxes — are at risk. 
Indiana's casinos pay more than $900 mil­lion in state and local taxes annually. A report released last month by the Indiana Legislative Services Agency predicted the competition from Ohio would lead to the state losing more than $100 million of that slice of the gambling pie. 
Any loss of casino tax revenue would also hurt Detroit and Michigan, which already face towering budget deficits. The state took a $121 million share of the Detroit casinos' $1.36 billion in revenues last year. 
On Tuesday, Ohio voters approved a ballot issue to allow one casino each in Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus and Toledo. 
“We're cautiously optimistic there's going to be a bit of an impact but not a profound impact,” Richard Kalm, executive director of the Michigan Gaming Control Board, told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
New York joins effort against Intel 
State Attorney General files federal lawsuit against world’s biggest computer chip maker 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — The legal challenges to Intel Corp.'s sales tactics mounted Wednesday as New York's attorney general accused the world's biggest com­puter chip maker of using “illegal threats and collu­sion” to dominate. 
In filing a federal antitrust lawsuit, Attorney General Andrew Cuomo accused Intel of using its market prowess to “rule with an iron fist.” 
Intel's chips act as the “brains” of 80 percent of the world's personal com­puters. Cuomo said Intel paid billions of dollars in kickbacks to computer manufacturers and retali­ated against those that did too much business with Intel's competitors, namely Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 
“Rather than compete fairly, Intel used bribery and coercion to maintain a stranglehold on the mar­ket,” Cuomo said in a writ­ten statement. “Intel's actions not only unfairly restricted potential com­petitors, but also hurt aver­age consumers who were robbed of better products and lower prices.” 
An Intel spokesman, Chuck Mulloy, denied the In May, the European but the company emerged that Intel has ever faced,” latest charges, as the com-Union fined Intel a record relatively unscathed. Enderle said. pany has in the past, and $1.45 billion, and last year The FTC dropped one Cuomo's lawsuit was said Intel's sales practices Korea's Fair Trade probe in 1993, and after filed in U.S. District Court were legitimate. Commission fined Intel another probe accused in Wilmington, Del., the 
“We never threatened $18.6 million. Intel is Intel in 1998 of violating same arena in which AMD anyone,” he said. appealing both rulings. In federal law by withholding sued Intel four years ago, 
At issue are the large 2005, Japan's Fair Trade technical information accusing the rival of anti-annual rebates Intel pays Commission found that about its processors from competitive behavior. A to big customers. Intel has Intel violated antitrust computer makers with trial is scheduled to begin described the rebates as rules there. Intel accepted whom Intel was involved in in a few months. simple volume discounts, that ruling without admit-patent disputes. Intel set-AMD's lawsuit quoted but some regulators have ting wrongdoing. tled that case the following managers from Toshiba disagreed, saying they ille-The U.S. Federal Trade year. saying Intel's financial gally penalize Intel's cus-Commission is also investi-Technology analyst Rob incentives amounted to tomers for going with gating. That probe might Enderle said Intel may be “cocaine.” It also said rivals' products, namely take on increased urgency facing a harder fight this executives from Gateway chips from AMD. considering the mounting time. He said the company complained that Intel's 
AMD has been complain-charges and the Obama worked through its prob-threats of retaliation for ing to regulators for five administration's pledge to lems “elegantly” in the working with AMD beat years that Intel has broken pursue antitrust cases 1990s, but has become them “into guacamole.” antitrust laws to keep more vigorously than the “much more combative” in Mirroring AMD's accusa-AMD's market share down. Bush administration did. the past decade in its deal-tions, Cuomo said Intel's The company has found its The FTC has investigated ings with regulators. rebates were illegally most sympathetic ear Intel before for evidence of “This could represent designed to squash compe­abroad. anticompetitive conduct, one of the biggest dangers tition. 


Cisco predicts growth after downturn 
Associated Press call with analysts that the hiring will said in an interview. “It's not com-
be “very targeted” and focused on pletely back to normal levels, and 

SAN FRANCISCO — Cisco Systems new markets. with that kind of uncertainty, you Inc. is forecasting revenue growth for Cisco's results are seen as a gauge really have to take things quarter by the first time in a year, offering fur-of how large corporations and gov-quarter.” ther evidence that orders are rising ernment agencies and Internet The company's expansion into again after passing what CEO John providers are managing their tech-markets outside its core routing and Chambers called a “tipping point” in nology budgets. The downturn has switching businesses poses one the downturn this summer. caused them to rein in spending on threat to Cisco in the form of lower 
The world's No. 1 maker of com-such Cisco mainstays as routers and profit margins. puter-networking gear said switches, a trend that is still hurting Cisco is entering the computer-Wednesday that given the brighten-Cisco but is easing as rising data server market, where it will compete ing conditions, it will start to hire traffic from Internet video and other with longtime partners Hewlett-more employees after laying off applications strain existing comput-Packard Co. and IBM Corp. It is also workers over the past year. Cisco's ing equipment. expanding its product line to include work force has shrunk by about Cisco executives urged caution, consumer gadgets. 3,500 over the past four quarters to though. They said sales could still sput-Cisco's forecast is for revenue about 63,800, mostly from layoffs but ter if the economic recovery falters. growth of 1 percent to 4 percent in also from early retirement offers and “There's still uncertainty in the the current quarter, which ends in attrition. economy on a global basis,” Cisco's January. That would translate to rev-
Chambers said during a conference chief financial officer, Frank Calderoni, enue of $9.2 billion to $9.5 billion. 
Fire worsens second day of Philly transit strike 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA— Commuters biked, walked, jug­gled carpool schedules and hitched rides as the city’s tran­sit system ground to a near halt for a second day Wednesday, a rush worsened when a regional rail train caught fire. 
Regional rail lines are run­ning because their workers are represented by a different union. But trouble hit around 7 
a.m. when a car caught fire as it headed downtown, causing delays and confusion. Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority offi­cials said it was likely an elec­trical fire and was not suspi­cious. 
More than 5,000 members of SEPTA’s largest union walked off the job early Tuesday, leav­ing thousands of people strug­gling for ways to get around without the use of subways, trolleys or buses. 
“I can’t take the whole strike off,” said Niki LaGrone, 27, a Catholic school teacher in North Philadelphia, as she prepared to take regional rail as far as it goes and then walk a mile and a half to school. “I’m going to have to show up. ... Hopefully, I can find somebody when I get in to work to help me out.” 
The Philadelphia school dis­trict reported a 16 percent drop in high school attendance Wednesday. On an average weekday, about 54,000 public and parochial students take SEPTA to school. 
At the J.R. Masterman high school, Robin Carpenter unloaded a bicycle from his father’s car so he could make the 7-mile ride home in the afternoon. 
“I do ride my bike sometimes but not during cross-country season,” he said, adding that the strike was an inconven­ience. “It’s too tiring.” 
Karen Pollack scrambled to find ways to get her 16-and 13­year-old daughters to and from their respective schools. 
Pollack lives in the city’s Germantown section and left about 15 minutes earlier to drop off her younger daughter at Masterman. Her husband dropped off their older daugh­ter at a school about 5 miles from home. 
Getting them home could be a challenge, though, since her older daughter usually takes SEPTA. Now, she’s going to walk the 15 or so blocks to her sister’s school and hopefully find a spot in that car pool — if there’s room. 
“It was a little stressful last night,” Pollack said. “It’s going to be day-to-day.” 
Jim Jordan, an assistant gen­eral manager for SEPTA, said the regional rail car that caught fire was about 40 years old, one of many slated to be replaced soon. The origin of the blaze was probably in the heating or electrical system, Jordan said, and the entire fleet will be inspected once the cause is determined. 

Flames could be seen shoot­ing from the front of the train shortly after 7 a.m. A big cloud of smoke also billowed from the train. No injuries were report­ed, but hundreds of riders had to be evacuated. 
Wayne Rafferty, 27, of Pottstown, a lab technician at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, said he had to calm down another passenger on the packed train, and he saw other passengers kicking out the removable emergency win­dows. Once outside the train, he took a picture of the front of it with flames and smoke. 
“I already texted in the photos to my boss. I said, ‘This was my train,’” he said. “He said he’ll see me when he sees me, so I’m going to start making the hike.” Rafferty estimated that it would take about an hour to walk to his workplace. 
The sudden strike by Transport Workers Union Local 234 has all but crippled the sys­tem, which averages more than 928,000 trips each weekday. The union walked away from negotiations on a new contract over disagreements on wage, pension and health care issues. 
Union president Willie Brown said the main issue is pensions. 
“My members stand strongly behind me,” Brown said a news conference Wednesday, adding that he hopes to meet with Gov. Ed Rendell in the next day or two. “Even though we did not want to strike, we were forced into a strike.” 
SEPTA General Manager Joe Casey also said he planned to talk to Rendell. 

Chimpattackvictimtosuestate 


Associated Press 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. — The family of a Connecticut woman mauled and blinded by a chim­panzee sought Wednesday to sue the state for $150 million, saying officials failed to prevent the attack. 
Attorneys for Charla Nash’s family filed a notice Wednesday with the state Office of Claims Commissioner asking for per­mission to sue. 
The 200-pound chimpanzee named Travis went berserk in February when his owner, Sandra Herold, asked Nash to help lure him back into her house in Stamford. 
The animal ripped off Nash’s hands, nose, lips and eyelids; she remains in stable condition at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio. 
A Department of Environmental Protection biol­ogist warned state officials before the attack that Travis could seriously hurt someone if he felt threatened, noting that he was large and strong. 
“We believe the evidence will show that the state, acting through the Department of Environmental Protection, failed to adequately address a serious public safety issue that resulted in tragic consequences for our client,” said Matt Newman, attorney for Nash’s family. 
Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said Wednesday that his office is reviewing the claim. He said that he is sym­pathetic over the “horrific tragedy” but that the planned lawsuit “seems unprecedented in size.” 
Dennis Schain, Environmental Protection spokesman, said his agency had not received any paper­work yet but would cooperate with the claims commissioner and attorney general. 
The claim comes at a difficult time for Connecticut, where the two-year, $37.6 billion budget is already $624 million in deficit. 
“There is a potential for a very significant exposure to the state, depending on how the facts are developed in the claims process,” said state Sen. Andrew McDonald, D-Stamford. 
Nash’s family earlier filed a $50 million lawsuit against Herold, saying she was negli­gent and reckless for lacking the ability to control “a wild animal with violent propensi­ties.” 
Herold’s attorney, who declined to comment on the new claim, has called the attack work-related and said her family’s case should be treated like a workers’ com­pensation claim. The strategy, if successful, would limit poten­tial damages in the case and insulate the chimp owner from personal liability. 
The animal, which was shot and killed by police, had also escaped in 2003 from his owner’s car and led police on a chase for hours in downtown Stamford. No one was injured. 
Records obtained by The Associated Press through a state open-records request show the state began receiving warnings immediately after that event. 
“The DEP had information for at least five years that would have permitted that agency to have removed Travis from its residence,” Nash’s attorneys wrote in the new papers, noting the agency did prosecute the owner of a much smaller pri­mate. “If the DEP had acted prudently, Charla Nash would not have been devastatingly injured.” 
Environmental protection officials have said that over the 13 years Travis was with Herold, the agency received only a few inquiries about Travis among thousands in general about possession of wild animals. 
They said the memo from the biologist underscored the need for a clear, new law that would forbid ownership of potentially dangerous animals as pets and impose stiff penalties for those possessing them, and they blamed the failure to act on a communications problem and a lack of expertise in exotic ani­mals at the agency. 
Nash’s family has a year from the date of the attack to file a claim with the claims commis­sioner office. The commissioner can recommend an award to the legislature or grant author­ization to sue the state in court. 
If the commissioner denies the request to seek damages from the state, the family could appeal to the legislature. Without its consent, the state cannot be held liable in a legal action for any damage or injury it may cause. 
Police fatally shot the 14­year-old chimp when he tried to attack an officer responding to the assault on Nash on Feb. 
16. Test results showed that Travis had the anti-anxiety drug Xanax in his system, but investigators don’t know whether the drug played a role. 
Wash. valley prepares for flooding 
Associated Press 
AUBURN, Wash. — On a sunny fall Saturday, friends and neighbors gathered at Bobby Kendall’s place to help him build a 2-foot barrier of sand­bags around his suburban Seattle home. Such get-togeth­ers have become a familiar rit­ual on the block in recent weeks as people lend a hand to neighbors to barricade homes. 
A similar effort is under way at a Boeing Co. facility, where workers put up an 8-foot-high floodwall. Managers of a near­by Starbucks roasting plant are in constant communication with federal disaster officials. 
It is all part of a feverish effort to fortify the heavily developed Green River Valley against a potentially cata­strophic flood during the winter rainy season. 
Engineers have said there is a 1-in-4 chance that a flood will inundate the valley. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has been working around the clock to prevent flooding, namely by pumping tons of grout into the problem area — a dam abut­ment that was found badly weakened by a torrential storm last winter. 
In recent weeks, some 40 miles of levees have been raised with sandbags, evacua­tion routes and emergency warning systems have been set up, and residents have been urged to assemble “go kits” — documents, medicine and other valuables they’ll need if forced to flee on short notice. 
“My house is my biggest asset,” Kendall said. “I don’t want it to wash away or get filled with mud.” 
Other efforts have ranged from homeowners installing one-way valves to prevent toi­lets backing up, to Boeing erecting the sandbag wall around its sprawling Space Center in nearby Kent. Boeing also is barricading its costly aircraft flight simulators in Renton. 
The valley cities and King County have held scores of informational meetings, passed out hundreds of thousands of sandbags, posted extensive information on special Web sites and organized a “reverse 911” system to automatically call or message residents if an emergency is declared. 
Besides Boeing, the valley floor has miles of malls, ware­houses, and businesses small and large, including Recreational Equipment Inc.’s headquarters and Starbucks’ regional roasting plant. Starbucks did not provide specifics about its flood-prepa­ration plan and how it will pro­tect its beans and employees, but said it is doing its best to “minimize impact to our supply chain and operations.” 
The four major cities in the Green River Valley — Auburn, Kent, Renton and Tukwila — all face the threat of flooding. An estimated 25,000 to 30,000 people live in flood zones, but Hillman Mitchell, the emer­gency management director in Tukwila, points out that 200,000 to 300,000 work or shop in the valley each day. 
“The number of people who may have to move could be very large,” he said. 
And beyond the physical damage, planners are warning people and businesses to pre­pare to be displaced for three weeks or more. 
Boeing spokesman Bill Cogswell said the 3-to 4-mile barrier around the Kent com­plex is necessary insurance to protect about 3,000 employees, a data center and the plant’s valuable defense work. Boeing is putting its valuables on high­er floors, moving equipment out and planning which of its other Seattle-area facilities can take over if water reaches the plant or more likely, blocks val­ley roads. 
“Our aim is to insure the safety of our employees, to make sure we minimize the potential business impact and that everyone knows where to go and what to do in the event of a flood,” he said. 
If a deluge comes, it will be because nature found a way to thwart a half-century of flood prevention. 
Earlier this year, an abutment to the Howard Hanson Dam on the upper reaches of the Green River was found to be seriously weakened after record January rains. To reduce the danger the abutment might fail, the Corps of Engineers, which operates the flood control dam 22 miles east in the Cascade foothills, immediately restricted the reservoir to about 30 percent of capacity, greatly reducing its ability to limit how much water is released downstream. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, November 5, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

I graduated from Notre Dame for the first time in 2007. I managed to stay away for a year. I sometimes quip that I failed to achieve escape velocity. While most take this to be a joke, it is not. 
I was trained by Daniel our English 
Sportiello 

Department to be a critic of post-Bound modern literature. 
Variables 

As a result, my sense of irony became overdeveloped: I learned to approach not just books but also peo­ple and institutions with a cold air of skepticism, looking for the self-serv­ing agendas beneath their self-right­eous rhetoric. I was convinced of my superiority — of the clarity of my vision compared to that of my peers, who somehow continued to take life at face value. 
Nothing was safe from the critical mindset that I had internalized — including the institution that had taught me to adopt it. The elders of Notre Dame — its administrators, fac­ulty, staff, and alumni—spoke of her tradition, of her inclusion of all of her children into one family under the sight of God. My peers accepted this without irony — an attitude that, at the time, I found incomprehensible: could they not see that this was just a story — a stratagem to generate, by means of enthusiasm and nostalgia, future donations? That the elders of Notre Dame encouraged orthodox morality so that her “children” might marry and, 18 years later, send their children and tuition back to the Dome? 
There is an element of truth in these accusations: Notre Dame is an institu-
Tradition 
tion like any other, and if her actions did not lead to her continued survival, she would no longer be around to do things like publish student newspa­pers. Indeed, in hindsight, I see an element of brilliance in the story that the elders of Notre Dame tell their students — a brilliance that has allowed Notre Dame to endure against significant odds. Nonetheless, I had missed something crucial. 
For Notre Dame is not an institution like any other, not quite. In my arro­gance, I could not see this until I went into the world — where I could not shake the feeling that something cru­cial was missing. It took me a year to realize what it was: if one scratches the surface of those institutions on the outside, there is a shallowness to them, a smallness to their purposes that makes them impossible to take seriously. They too tell us stories, but their stories are rather less sincere: the entirety of popular culture has come to be a kind of marketing, lever­aging our every behavior for ends that would be sinister if they were not so petty. We are to them cogs in the larg­er machinery of manipulation. 
Notre Dame is not like this. She too is, in some sense, a machine in which we are but cogs. But what differenti­ates her is the depth of her purposes: Notre Dame takes steps to ensure her continued survival, yes, but that sur­vival is not an end in itself. For she does not hoard the resources that we give her: she spends them. On us. Or, rather, on creating the family that she said she would create in the first place. I know this now because I have allowed myself to become part of that family — to take the words of the Lady not as manipulative but as sin­cere. For the first time, Notre Dame is my home. 
There is a tradition at Notre Dame that one will not graduate if one climbs the steps of the main building as an undergraduate. In my ironic mode, I could see this tradition only as a superstition: I climbed the steps every chance that I got, laughing each time at the simplicity of my peers. When I graduated anyway, I laughed harder: I had transcended Notre Dame. I had need of her no longer. 
Things seemed less funny when I returned a year later. It was no longer so obvious to me that I had actually managed to transcend Notre Dame — and even less obvious that it was the kind of thing that one ought to tran­scend. I admit that it might be that I am now as blind as I once thought my peers. But if to look at the world with sincerity rather than irony is blind­ness, it is unclear to me that sight is better. 
I suppose that I wrote this column to encourage those of you who might think as I once did to reevaluate things — to try to look at the Lady on her own terms. It is worth it, I think. At any rate, I have vowed not to climb the steps before I graduate. Maybe this time I will actually achieve escape velocity — maybe I will finally learn, that is, the sincerity that I was sup­posed to have learned the first time. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his second year of the Ph.D. program in philosophy. Listen to his radio show on WVFI every Sunday at 3 p.m. He can be contacted at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Robert Singer Michael Bryan QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Irena Zajickova Meghan Veselik Megan Loney Scene Graphics Alexandra 
“Just because something doesn't do 
“Man's main task in life is to give

Blair Chemidlin Kilpatrick 
what you planned it to do doesn't 
birth to himself, to become what he
Viewpoint 

mean it's useless.” 
potentially is.” 
Michelle Maitz 

Thomas Edison 
Erich Fromm 

U.S. inventor 
U.S. psychologist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, November 5, 2009 page 11 
A Notre Dame short story 
Part 3 by John Cirilli 

He did not know of what he was accused, only that he had done it. The starkly cold eyes (or he thought they might be eyes) of those sitting in council followed his every move with unrelenting focus. The minds behind those eyes, hard and sharp and twisted, would never have trifled to accuse the innocent. They saw further into him than he himself, but he knew one thing that they did not. 
Part 4 by Cory Hartmann 

The 7th Annual ‘Council of Elrond of Middle Earth and Other Mythical, Magical Beings in Realms Not of Thine’ Meeting stared in a mixture of bewilderment and disbelief as a stark raving madman had just inexplicably tore through the brick wall of Party Room #3 in the back of the local Toys-R-Us of Humptulips, Washington (south on Highway 101). Cosmetically enhanced ears perked up their angular tips behind felt Robin Hood hats as their bow strings grew taut, the soft swoosh of metal against leather whispered as imitation rapiers were drawn, and calloused hands nervous­ly clutched expertly selected pokéballs. Their trepi­dation vanished from their pockmarked faces as the realization sunk in that after years of abuse and mockery, their vindication had finally arrived. The huge taste of repeated defeat hung sour on their collective tongue, and they were anxious to test the strength of their arms — magnificent spec­imens conditioned with years of lifting countless cans of Mountain Dew from the depths of the floor up to the heights of their mouth. Nerds no longer, these were action deprived warriors thirsting for validation. “YOU — SHALL — NOT — PASS!” screeched Aragorn Ketchum McCloud of Tattooine, and the first volley was launched. 
Want to write the next paragraph to the story? Submit your paragraph to NDLFshortstory@gmail.com before 4 p.m. Limit of 200 words. Title it Part Five. This story will continue until Nov. 16. If your paragraph is selected, it will be published in Viewpoint and you will get to read it at the NDLF panel discus­sion Nov. 19. The visiting authors will write the ending paragraphs. Take advantage of the opportunity to write a story along with three New York Times bestselling authors! 
You can write Part Five! 



You can’t be poorer than dead 
Flannery O’Connor, prone to wry humor for instructive purposes, titled one of her short stories “You Can’t Be Any Poorer Than Dead.” Her story characteristically examines how people face — or ignore — their limitations, both their own and others’. But more Fr. Lou DelFra centrally, and hauntingly, 
Faith Point 
O’Connor’s work — beginning with her title — suggests that there is one giant human limita­tion that underscores all our others, and threatens us at every turn, and yet which we spend most our lives trying not to think about. At some point, our lives just … end. 
O’Connor loved the liturgical honesty of the Catholic Church. She thought that Catholic spirituality forcefully invited us to deal with important reali­ties, like sin and death, that we would just as soon ignore. Judging from the number of blind and disfigured folk that appear in Flannery’s stories, including plenty who blind and disfig­ure themselves, such ignorance to the total reality of life, including its uncomfortable parts, is hardly blissful; rather, she seems to suggest, it leads us to live life only half-awake and, well, blindly. 
O’Connor was grateful that the Church doesn’t let us turn a blind eye to the discomforting realities of life, perhaps particularly during November, which the Church celebrates as the Month of the Dead. Consider the fact that, in its rich tradition of sacramen­tality — having physical things to mark invisible realities — the Church has always loved bones. Saints’ relics — finger bones, shoulder blades, skulls — are some of the most sacred markers in Catholic churches. You most likely celebrate mass under the watchful eyes of a dead person — rendered, at least in the States, a bit less grotesque by the sculptor or stained glass artist. If you have ever carried a rosary, you have carried a dead man in your pock­et. If this seems rather odd, or even slightly disturbing, then you are get­ting the point. 
O’Connor must have loved that the Church has rather defiantly reserved the month of November to meditate openly on the reality of death, begin­ning with All Saints Day on Nov. 1 and All Souls Day on Nov. 2. At the doors of most chapels these weeks, you will note a book in which we can write down the names of the dead. Of course, Halloween, celebrated so … vibrantly(!) … throughout the dorms last week, owes its origin and macabre tone to being the eve of the Month of the Dead. November is a rather ghast­ly, if not ghostly, time of year, and the Church has uninhibitedly promoted it as such, with good reason. 
Death is all around us, and its seed is inextricably within us. And if prayer is bringing our whole selves before God as honestly as we can, it doesn’t seem to make much sense to leave our help­lessness before death out of the mix. Unhealthy? Depressing? Fulfilling Freud’s death wish? Death, handled clumsily, fearfully, unconsciously, might lead us down any of these roads. This, it seems to me, is precisely why the Church invites us each November to meditate on death more deliberately, with the full complement of our faith, and the hope of the Communion of Saints, at our disposal. 
On All Souls Day each year, I join my religious community in remembering the dead by walking the gravesites of our predecessors in Holy Cross. The deceased priests and brothers of Holy Cross are all buried in a cemetery on the outer edge of campus, by the road to Saint Mary’s. For a while, this stroll among the dead, autumn leaves flaking my footsteps and a not-yet-biting nip in the air, is rather pleasant, even — dare I say — invigorating. I feel proud to stroll among the names of the priests and brothers who built so much of Notre Dame. My standing above their gravesites reminds me how much of my own life stands upon their earlier toil and sweat. But … then I reach the last gravestone and, what is worse, the expanse of undisturbed green grass beside it. It is the space where the rest of us, including me, will one day lie. I move across it quickly … though per­haps one of these years, I ought to pause there, as a courageous nod to the future. 
Instead, I scurry to the rest of our community, huddled around a statue of Mary holding her dead son recently crucified. And I listen as we proclaim into the graying autumn sky the words of St. John Damascene: 
“Where is the ephemeral dream? All is dust, all ashes, all shadow. What glory does not fade? In a moment all is struck down. Now I know wisdom: I am dust and ashes. I search among the graves, see the bones laid bare. What mystery befell us? We wail and grieve at our beauty marred in the tomb. We stand over the graves of our lost, our bodies entwined by a mysterious wind 
— Christ murmuring: “trust, trust.” 
November is a month to scurry through. But … slowly … our faith beckons, for it is also a month to pause and trust. 
This week’s Faith Point was written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director of Bible Studies and ACE chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Thursday, November 5, 2009 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
By ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It was a Wednesday evening when I got the tragic phone call . My 
50 year-
old mother had jus invested her pair of Uggs. 
I’ve prided myself on never owning Uggs, mostly because in a fit of snobbi­ness, I deemed them too unoriginal and generic for a true fashion statement. Plus, they ’re just plain ugly. I quickly scolded my mother for her purchase, both because she is clear­ly not a teenager and also because she has been a style icon of mine since youth and I couldn ’t believe she had com­mitted such a fashion faux pas . The news that she had fallen to the dark side made me question my whole fash­ion doc ­trine. 
Alas, here comes the lesson of learning not to speak too soon . I will grudg­ingly admit that the Uggs my mom bought are fantas ­tic . They ’re chic, cute and undeniably warm . Thank heavens though, they look nothing like the typical tube ­shaped boot that society invested in because a few celebrities paraded them around 90 years ago. 
These new Uggs, called “Women ’s Shoreline, ” come in an olive color, lace up the front and have unique Indian -inspired details that make the boots not only eye-catching but also compati ­ble with the sea ­s o n’s trends. The fact that such a good ­looking boot could belong to the Ugg fam­ily intrig ued me and I searched the Web site for 
other good finds. Don’t be fooled . The “Shoreline” is as good as it gets. 
If Uggs aren ’t your thing, The North Face also provides an attractive and to day (read: pajamas to functional snow boot class), a few items will called the “Women’s Abby adorn every girl ’s cos ­
II .” The Abby II is tume. extremely comfortable and Jackets are an absolute warm, but make sure to necessity from late douse November 
to at least early 
March and, th an kfu lly, are plenty of 
it in suede spray before stepping out into the South Bend slush if you want to main ­tain the shoes’ color and tex­ture. For a cheap ­er but similar 
looking style, check 
out Target’s “Women’s C9 by Champion Neveah Lace-Up” boots. 
South Bend are notorious being ugly and Once that first snowfall goes from white gray, the desire look cute plowed away 
the sludge the 
on most ple ’s will 
warmth. 
Many morning came last 
year when the sweat­pants worn to bed were the main 

ingredient in the next day ’s outfit. Whether you ’re someone who despises the slop ­piness of a sweat 
or 
instead 
loves nothing more than taking your outfit from evening 
fantastic options out there. 
For those eco -friendly Green NDers, The North Face “Women ’s Denali Hoodie” provides not only warmth, but also a clear conscience. Made of mate­rials that would have nor­mally piled up in the trash, this jacket’s fabric, recycled Polartec 300 series fleece, is derived from 90 percent post ­industrial waste and 10 percent post -consumer waste. Save yourself and the environment by bundling up in this multi-
functional hoodie. 
If price is a concern, 
Target ’s “Merona 
Women ’s Short Hooded 
Puffer” jacket comes in 
a variety of colors, 
compliments the femi­
nine shape and is 
only 
$30 . The teal, red and purple are especially flattering 

on 
any complexion and will light up Notre Dame’s dreary 


winter campus. 
The last vital com ­ponent of the Notre Dame Winter Survival Outfit is the scarf. Go nowhere without one. Winds here turn viciously violent, and unless you ’re a fan of sporting the robber -like ski mask, a scarf will be your savior. Forever 21 is 
stocked with 
price 
om ss than 
$5 to just 
over $10 . Both 
Eagle and the Gap have classic prep­py styles and plenty of pretty patterns, like the “Soft floral scarf, ” that will ensure you look good as you set out on the daily hike to class. 
Don’t be caught without the essentials this winter. One look that will NOT be in is frostbite. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, November 5, 2009 page 13 
Badin Art Show @ 6-9 p.m. 
The annual Badin Art Show is taking place Thursday evening from 6 to 9 p.m. in Badin Hall social space. This event features student artists from the University, as well as sidewalk chalk, music and free food. Submissions to the art show are judged and awarded prizes. This is a great oppor ­tunity to come out and support your fellow students and see some great art . You never know, your fellow classmates could be the next Van Gogh or Monet. Feel free to stop in at any time all evening, although the earlier you get there, the more likely there will still be delicious food. 
SUB Movie @ 8 and 10:30 p.m.  End Zone @ 10 p.m. LaFortune  Irish Chamber Orchestra @ 2  
in DeBartolo  Ballroom  p.m. in DPAC  
This week’s sub movie is “Harry  E n d Z o n e i s a f a n t a s t i c e v e n t  The Irish Chamber Orchestra is  
Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.”  p u t  o n  f o r  t h e  s t u d e n t  b o d y b y  p e r fo r mi n g  a t  t h e  D e B a rt o l o  
The sixth installment of the Harry  the Student Activities Office after  P er f or m i n g  A r t s  C e n t e r.  T h e  
P o t t e r s e r i e s , i t c h r o n i c l e s t h e  every football game, so be sure to  Orchestra is composed of strings  
sixth year at Hogwarts for Harry  take advantage of it. The theme  players with both national and  
a n d  h i s  f r i e n d s .  A s  L o r d  f o r  t h e  E n d  Z o n e  t h i s  w e e k  i s  international acclaim. Known for  
Vo l d e m o r t ’s p a t h o f  t e r r o r  a n d  laser tag and Chipotle. And what  its fresh and exciting take on clas­ 
de s tr u c tion grows w ide r, Harry  b e t t e r  w a y  t o  c e l e b r a t e  a  w i n  sical and contemporary music, this  
and Dumbledore work to discover  than  with  two  awesome  things?  is one ensemble not to be missed.  
a s  m u c h  a s  t he y  ca n  a bo ut He - Stop in with your friends anytime  In addition to  an  already stellar  
Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, in hope  d u r i n g  t h e  e v e n i n g  a f t e r  t h e  g r o u p  o f  m u s i c i a n s ,  S t e v e n  
of  one  day destroying him. Harry  game. You  can  play  one  game of  M a ck ey  w ill  b e  j o i ni n g  t h e  
is also presented with the chal- l ase r  tag  or  st ay  al l  ni g h t.  The  Orchestra. He is known for his  
lenge of appeasing  a  new  profes- Chipotle is  sure  to go fast,  so  the  w o r k  on  t he  e l e ct r i c  g u i t ar.  
sor, Horace Slughorn, in  an  effort  e a r l i e r  y o u  s t o p b y,  t h e  b e t t e r  To g e t h e r  w i t h  t h e  O rc he s t r a ,  
to  secure  his help when the time  your chances. If nothing else, it’s  Mackey will perform  an  original  
comes.  This movie will be shown  a l w a y s  n i c e  t o  h a v e  s o m e t h i n g  piece written for strings and elec- 
Thursday at 10 p.m. and Saturday  n e w  a n d  d i f f e r e n t  t o  d o  o n  tric guitar and commissioned spe­ 
at 8 and 10:30 p.m. Tickets are $3.  Saturday night.  cially for the group.  
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu  

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Beatrix Kiddo fans rejoice! The man himself, Quentin Tarantino, director of “Kill Bill,” amongst other modern classics, has recently gone on record saying that he plans to make a third volume of the epic revenge saga. And, better yet, the Bride (Uma Thurman) is just as excited to get to work on “Volume Three.” The Internet is booming with speculation about the plot. SPOILER ALERT. After all, Bill is officially dead. Not many are known to have survived the Five Point Palm Exploding Heart Technique. 
The most popular potential plot 
choice: several years after the 
events of the first two movies, 
Vernita Green’s daughter 
goes to 
revenge against 
the Bride, which 
was strongly 
alluded to at 
the end of 
that great 
kitchen fight. 
However, can 
Tarantino 
really make a 
new “Kill Bill” 
movie that isn’t about killing Bill? As 


has been suggested by some, will 


the title be changed to “Kill Beatrix” 
or “Kill B?” The jury is still out. Either way, there is no 
Tarantino and Thurman, and there 
is no way they would screw up “Volume Three.” For those invested in some of Tarantino’s more popular titles, like “Pulp Fiction,” “Reservoir Dogs” and the recent “Inglourious Basterds,” “Kill Bill” is a massively underrated piece of his repertoire. It features Tarantino sta­ples, like blood (deli­ciously red and spurting everywhere), ridiculous but compelling dialogue and a bizarre but strangely moving plot. If he strays in any way from his standard non-formulaic formula, it’s in filling his movie with a BA female protagonist 
(Thurman) and several women baddies that need to be taken care of. “Kill Bill” is not for the faint of 
and the tale of a lover scorned, ready to seek her revenge, then this is it. 
“Kill Bill” works best as one movie. “Volume One” is exciting and action packed, whereas “Volume Two,” no less exciting, actually gets to the point of the movie, heading towards its resolu­tion. It’s guaranteed that watching them one after the other is really the only way to see “Kill Bill.” For you unfortunate souls unfamiliar with the movie, it follows Beatrix Kiddo, the Bride, after waking up from a lengthy coma. Turns out she was once an assassin, but on her wedding day, was shot and put into a coma by her former associates. 
What follows is the Bride literally slashing through her once-cowork­ers to seek her revenge. Only part-way-through “Volume Two” does she make it known what she is real­
ly after. No need to spoil that here, but you won’t see it coming. She then has to continue with her killing spree, making her way towards the Head Honcho, the eponymous Bill. This essentially amounts to one of the most entertain­ing, hold-on-to-your­seat-in-anticipation, kick-butt movies ever. 
Thus why Tarantino’s big reveal 
up in a dizzy. Unfortunately, Mr. Auteur has a few projects currently up his sleeve like­ly to be made before “Kill Bill: Volume Three,” including a remake of “Faster Pussycat, Kill Kill.” However, it is, as of now, tentatively set for a 2014 release date. 
These might be four of the rough­est years to get through, just out of sheer anticipation, but there is no doubt that it will be worth it. In the meantime, get your hands on “Kill Bill” RIGHT NOW and watch it to your hearts content. Every time an artery is cut and blood begins to shower the room, just remember that there is so much more of that in store for you. Eyeball pulling and scalping might be at a minimum, but other body parts are sure to suf­fer. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

NBA 

Wade leads Heat in victory over Wizards 
Pacers defense wins team its first game of the season; Nuggets come back in third quarter to overthrow Nets 
game without starter Mike rebounds.” 
Associated Press 

Miller , who left in the fourth Al Harrington scored 22 
WASHINGTON — Dwyane quarter with a left shoulder points for the Knicks, who Wade scored 40 points, sprain. Miller first hurt the shot 2-for-17 in the fourth including a go-ahead jumper shoulder in the third quarter quarter. David Lee had 20 with 25 seconds left, to lead in a collision with the Heat’s points and 19 rebounds, but the Miami Heat in a 93-89 Mario Chalmers. Miller was New York hit 39.5 percent for victory over the Washington taken to the locker room and the game. Wizards on Wednesday night. returned to the bench a few “Our problems in this game 
It was the first time Wade minutes later with his shoul-started and ended on the reached 40 points since get-der taped. He re-entered the offensive end,” Lee said. “We ting a career-high 55 in April game late in the third quar-talk a lot about our defense, against New York. Quentin ter. but our offense in the second Richardson had 19 points Miller, who was acquired by half, for us to shoot under 40 and nine rebounds for Miami Washington in a trade with percent isn’t a good sign.” (4-1). Minnesota in June, aggravat-The Pacers turned to their 
Wade took the spotlight ed the injury with 9:11 left in defense without starting for-away from Washington ’s the fourth quarter when he ward Troy Murphy , who Gilbert Arenas , who scored fell to the court on a foul by bruised his lower back in a 32 but was 9 of 27 from the Miami’s Joel Anthony. Miller hard fall during a 111 -93 field. completed the 3-point play loss to Denver on Tuesday 
Arenas missed a layup with and stayed in the game for night. They are already with­17 seconds left after Wade’s about another minute before out another top player, Mike jumper, falling hard to the again leaving for the locker Dunleavy Jr., who is recover-ground after driving through room. ing from surgery on his right traffic, and rushed a short knee. jumper on the next posses-Pacers 101, Knicks 89 They didn ’t need them sion with the Wizards trailing A couple of top players against the Knicks, who fell by three points to end were already on the bench, to 1-2 on a four-game homes­
Washington’s chances. then leading scorer Danny tand that concludes Friday seven turnovers in the first The 5-0 start is Denver’s 
Arenas gave Washington an Granger joined them after with the only visit this season quarter, but still trailed only best since winning six 89-87 lead with 1:30 remain-fouling out with plenty of from LeBron James and the 25-21 after both teams shot straight in 1985-86. It also ing, driving the lane for a time left. Cleveland Cavaliers. under 40 percent. The handed the Nets their fifth layup with 1 second showing No matter. The Indiana “Our guys are in terrific offenses picked up in the sec-straight loss, tying the worst on the shot clock. Jermaine Pacers just won it with condition to be able to play ond, with Harrington scoring start in franchise history, set O’Neal hit a jumper to tie it defense. that hard in the second half 10 points and New York hit-in 1996-97. 19 seconds later. T.J. Ford scored eight of his after playing back-to-back ting 62 percent to take a 56-“We knew going into half-
DeShawn Stevenson missed 16 points in the final 3:12, nights,” Indiana coach Jim 50 halftime lead. time that obviously Carmelo two free throws with 44 sec-and the Pacers won for the O’Brien said. “It shows how The Knicks led by seven and Chauncey were going to 
onds left to set up Wade’s first time this season, holding hard they worked up to this late in the third quarter lead the charge and that’s jumper. the New York Knicks without point.” before the Pacers scored the exactly what they did,” said 
Brendan Haywood had 16 a field goal for the final 9-Hibbert tied it at 76 early final six points of the period. Nets coach Lawrence Frank, points and 11 rebounds and plus minutes Wednesday in the fourth, then Granger Granger made a 3-pointer, whose team scored seven Caron Butler had 13 points night’s victory. made a 3-pointer to give the but the other points were on points in the third quarter in and 10 rebounds for “That has to be the signa-Pacers the lead for good. free throws that pulled a loss to Charlotte on Monday Washington. ture of our team, that Wilson Chandler ’s jumper Indiana within 74-73 heading night. “They dominated the 
The tight final minutes regardless of what we ’re with 9:20 left made it a one-to the fourth. paint and the perimeter in came after Miami opened up doing on the offensive end, point game, but the Knicks Indiana was 8 of 12 from the third quarter and we a big early lead. Haywood we can always stop you on were shut out from the field the line in the third quarter. never recovered.” 
opened 
the game with the the defensive end, and we did the rest of the night. New York shot none. Denver hit 17 of 25 shots dunk, but the Wizards didn’t that tonight,” Granger said. The fourth-quarter debacle and outscored the Nets 44-26 hold the lead again until Dahntay Jones had 19 came after the Knicks had Nuggets 122, Nets 94 in the third quarter in turn­Haywood’s hook shot at 6:28 points and 12 rebounds for averaged 40.5 points in the Down by a point after sub-ing a 51-50 deficit into a 94­left in the third quarter gave the Pacers (1-3), who came in fourth quarters of their pre-par first-half performances 77 lead. Washington a 57-56 edge. as one of the NBA’s three vious two games. They man-by Chauncey Billups and “The equalizer in NBA bas-

The rest of the quarter winless teams and had lost aged only 33 points in the Carmelo Anthony, the Denver ketball is that the game is belonged to the team’s duel-all three games by double second half Wednesday. Nuggets become the latest long and the better team usu­ing stars. Arenas scored nine digits. Roy Hibbert added 15 “For whatever reason, it team to take advantage of the ally comes out after a while,” 

of 
Washington ’s final 13 points and 14 rebounds. seems every time we get New Jersey Nets ‘ woes in the Nuggets coach George Karl points in the third quarter. Brandon Rush had 12 stuck or whatever, instead of third quarter. said. “Our two best players Wade outdid him, tallying points and 10 rebounds as having a little more determi-Billups and Anthony woke weren’t shooting well, but I Miami ’s final 10 points, the Pacers pulled it out nation or patience, we just up the Nuggets by leading a felt pretty good about the including a last-second layup despite losing Granger, who jack one up and that kind of 44 -point third -quarter way they came out in the to tie the game at 66 entering led them with 21 points, to got us in trouble in the sec-assault that carried unbeaten third quarter.” the fourth quarter. fouls with 3:38 remaining. ond half,” Knicks coach Mike Denver to its fifth straight Billups scored the first 


Miami had led by as many Indiana forced New York to D’Antoni said. win, a decision over the vic-seven points to give Denver as 19 in the opening quarter, miss its final 12 shots. New York stayed within tory over the winless Nets on the lead for good. Anthony, going up 27-8 with 3 1/2 min-“I’m happy things worked four points by making Wednesday night. who was 1 of 11 in the first 
utes left in the first. that we’ve been working on numerous trips to the line “The first half, we couldn’t half, scored 11 of his 22 
The Wizards clawed back in for the past couple of weeks until Ford’s jumper made it it going at all,” said Billups, points in the quarter, which the second period. With and to know that our defense 93-87 with 3:12 to go. Ford who scored all 12 of his was five points shy of the Arenas on the bench, can anchor us,” said Jones, a followed with two free points in the third quarter. Nets all -time worst third Washington went on a 17-2 defensive stopper last season throws for an eight -point “There are not many times quarter. run over a nearly 5-minute for Denver who helped lead, and after Harrington hit when Melo and I are off at “I wasn’t happy with the span to pull to 37-36. Wade Indiana hold New York’s two free throws, Ford the same time. But the bench way things were going in the 
made sure the Heat would starting backcourt of Chris knocked down another came in and did a great job. first half, so in the second hold on to the lead with a Duhon and Larry Hughes to 6 jumper to put it away at 97-Sometimes, the shots don’t half, I think we all wanted to pair of 3-pointers, and Miami of 23 shooting. “We were 89 with 48 seconds remain-go, but we just had to pick it up in a hurry,” said led 50-41 at halftime. communicating and getting ing. regroup at halftime and get Anthony, who was 7 of 13 in 
The Wizards finished the stops and trying to dig out The Pacers committed the job done.” the second half. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do look... Damn it! He’d still look good. OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur-FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-not go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— WANTED MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. nished. January and June 2010 0964. many resources in place to assist For Michael and Bill: She wears 
$1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL leases available. www.cespm.info you. If you or someone you love high heels, I wear sneakers PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-GEORGIA PEACH BED AND Call 574-968-0112. needs confidential support or assis-She’s Cheer Captain and I’m on the appt., no experience needed, cus-BREAKFAST @269-357-6979. ——————————————— tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at bleachers
PERSONAL

tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. ——————————————— andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Dreaming about the day when you 3 bdrm home on 1 acre wooded lot. more information, visit ND’s website wake up and find Close to ND (1 block). $1250/mo. at: That what you’re looking for has
FOR RENT 574-276-2333. TICKETS http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu been here the whole time ——————————————— If you or someone you care about ——————————————— If you could see that I’m the one Home for ND football weekends. 1 has been sexually assaulted, we Michael: I’m not usually the butt of who understands you 
5 bdrm, 2 bath home. 705 ND Ave. mi. N. of campus. Reasonable. 574-HELP! Need FB tix for family. can help. For more information, visit the joke. I’m usually the face of the Been here all along, so why can’t $2150/mo. Avail. June 2010. 574-360-0588 or www.gamedayhous-Notre Dame’s website: joke. I wish Jim had fallen into that you see? 276-2333. ing.com Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570 http://csap.nd.edu pond and he’d have to put on my You belong with me ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— suit and it’d be too short and he’d ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, November 5, 2009 
page 15 

NCAA Women’s Soccer Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Stanford 1 2 Portland 2 3 UCLA 3 4 NOTRE DAME 5 5 North Carolina 6 6 Florida State 4 7 Boston College 7 8 Florida 10 9 UCF 8 10 Wake Forest 11 11 Ohio State 15 12 Rutgers 9 13 LSU 16 14 Santa Clara 14 15 South Carolina 13 16 Maryland 12 17 BYU 19 18 Washington State 21 19 Virgina Tech 17 20 Texas A&M 20 21 Southern California 18 22 Penn State 25 23 Purdue 22 24 Dayton RV 25 Georgia RV 
BCS Division I Football 
Rankings  
team  previous  
1  Florida  1  
2  Texas  3  
3  Alabama  2  
4  Iowa  4  
5  Cincinnati  8  
6  TCU  6  
7  Boise State  7  
8  Oregon  10  
9  LSU  9  
10  Georgia Tech  11  
11  Penn State  12  
12  Southern California  5  
13  Pittsburgh  15  
14  Utah  16  
15  Houston  18  
16  Ohio State  17  
17  Miami (Fla.)  19  
18  Arizona  20  
19  Oklahoma State  14  
20  California  24  
21  Wisconsin  NR  
22  NOTRE DAME  23  
23  Virginia Tech  13  
24  Oklahoma  NR  
25  South Florida  NR  



around the dial 
NBA 
Bulls at Cavaliers 8 p.m., TNT 

NCAA Football 
No. 23 Virginia Tech at East Carolina 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Browns’ Lewis to retire after season 
Associated Press 

BEREA, Ohio — Jamal Lewis can see the goal line to his career. It’s just eight games away. 
Cleveland’s durable running back said Wednesday that he hasn’t changed his mind about retiring after this season, his 10th in the NFL. Lewis announced the decision following the Browns’ 30­6 loss Sunday in Chicago, leading to speculation he was speaking from emo­tion. 
Surely he would change his mind. 
Not Lewis. Just as he runs with the football, he’s churning his legs and trying not to let anyone bring him down. 
“I don’t talk just to talk,” he said. “I mean what I say.” 
The 30-year-old Lewis, who moved into 21st place on the league’s career rushing list last week, hinted that he may have decided to retire long before the Browns’ 1-7 start. Lewis paused when he was asked if he came into the season knowing it would be his last one. 
“I’d rather not answer that question,” he said. “I just wanted to come out here and give it a shot — check out the new system, the new coaches and give it another shot with my teammates. That’s really all I said I would do this season is hopefully go out and have a winning sea­son.” 
It hasn’t worked out that way. To this point, the Browns have shown little progress under first-year coach Eric Mangini. And beyond the losses, the club is still plagued by turmoil. Just this week general manager George Kokinis, who worked with Lewis in Baltimore, was relieved of his duties. 
Lewis is disappointed with the Browns’ continu­
ous slide, but said the team’s performance through eight gams had no bearing on his decision to retire. 
“They didn’t sour me,” he said of the losses. “I just expected better. I expected more. I expected to win. I was excited to start off the season with the attitude Mangini and his staff instilled in us. At the same time, when you work as hard as we did you want to see results. 
“I’m still looking for them.” 
Lewis may have lost a step or two since rushing for 2,066 yards for the Ravens in 2003. But his stature hasn’t changed inside Cleveland’s locker room. The Browns elected him as a captain before the season and the team’s younger players look up to him as an all-around role model. 
IN BRIEF 

Caps ’ left wing Alex Ovechkin week-to-week 
NEWARK, N.J. — As expected, Washington Capitals star Alex Ovechkin is out of the lineup because of an upper-body strain. 
Ovechkin has been termed “week to week” by the Capitals, but the two-time NHL MVP was not ruled out beyond Wednesday night’s game against the New Jersey Devils. 
Ovechkin traveled with the team and could potentially play at Florida on Friday or at home in a rematch with the Panthers on Saturday. 
The NHL’s second-leading scorer was hurt Sunday during an over­time loss to Columbus. Ovechkin had a league-best 14 goals, and 23 points while playing in Washington’s first 14 games this season. 
“He said he’s feeling better today, a lot better today,” Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau said Wednesday morning. “I was excited about that. 
NBA referee Donaghy released from jail 
BROOKSVILLE, Fla. — Disgraced former NBA referee Tim Donaghy was a free man Wednesday after serving most of a 15-month sentence in a gambling scandal. 
Pat Berdan, a consultant working with Donaghy, said he was released from Hernando County Jail in Florida. Donaghy had been jailed there since August after officials said he violated travel restrictions while living at a halfway house in the Tampa area. 
A New York judge sentenced the ex-referee in July 2008 after Donaghy said he took thousands of dollars from a professional gambler in exchange for inside tips on games 
— including games he worked. 
The 42-year-old pleaded guilty to conspiracy to engage in wire fraud and transmitting betting information through interstate commerce in the tips-for-payoffs scheme. 
Dodgers pitcher Padilla shot while training 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua — Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Vicente Padilla is recovering from a bullet wound in his leg after a target shooting instructor accidentally shot him. 
Dr. Eduardo Reguera said Padilla, who signed with the Dodgers in August, didn’t need surgery after spending time at Managua’s Metropolitan Hospital. 
Police spokesman Vilma Reyes said Wednesday that Padilla’s pis­tol apparently jammed during a target shooting session late Tuesday. 
Padilla handed the pistol to a shooting instructor, a former police captain, who didn’t realize there was a bullet in the chamber and shot himself in his hand, Padilla’s legal adviser Roberto Calderon told The Associated Press. The bullet also grazed Padilla’s leg. 

NFL 

Westbrook ready to return Sunday 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Brian Westbrook is set to return from his latest injury when the Eagles host the Dallas Cowboys in a matchup of the top two teams in the NFC East on Sunday. 
Westbrook missed the Eagles’ rout of the Giants last week with a concussion sus­tained a week earlier in a vic­tory over Washington. Coach Andy Reid said Westbrook, who practiced Wednesday for the first time since the injury, should be “good to go” against Dallas and will not need to undergo further testing. 
“Right now he’s fine,” Reid said. 
Westbrook said the headache he had last week is gone and he feels no ill effects from the concussion. 
“I feel pretty good,” Westbrook said. “My memory has returned. It really didn’t go away except for that one play. I’m excited about the opportu­nity to play again.” 
While falling to the turf dur­ing a 5-yard run against the Redskins, Westbrook hit his head on the knee of linebacker London Fletcher. Westbrook briefly lost consciousness but walked off the field under his own power. 
It was the first career con­cussion for the eight-year vet­eran, who remembers every­thing except the play on which he suffered the concussion. 
“It’s a trying time,” Westbrook said. “You’re not sure if it’s going to be two weeks, it’s going to be one week — you’re not sure exactly what it’s going to be. You hope and pray that the symptoms will go away.” 
While rookie running back LeSean McCoy and veteran fullback Leonard Weaver filled in nicely against the Giants, rushing for 66-and 41-yard touchdowns respectively, Westbrook’s return certainly will be a boost. 
The Cowboys, who despite being 22nd in the league in yards allowed per game (342.1), are 10th in points allowed (19.4). 
“Having Westbrook back will be definitely big for us,” quar­terback Donovan McNabb said. 
Westbrook has struggled with injuries all season. After undergoing knee and ankle operations in the offseason, he sprained the same ankle in a Week 2 loss to New Orleans and missed the following week’s win over Kansas City. 
His best game of the season thus far came two weeks later. Westbrook was the lone high­light of a stunning loss to Oakland, gaining 141 total yards on 15 touches. 
“I just look at it as a fluke thing,” Westbrook said of his latest injury. “It was weird because I went into that game feeling pretty good. The first couple carries I felt pretty good.” 
Westbrook rushed for 13 yards on his three carries against Washington. 
“I thought you were seeing the speed, the burst, the timing his vision,” Reid said. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Florida ups Spikes’ penalty to a full game 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — With all the negative attention “weighing heavy on his heart,” Florida linebacker Brandon Spikes asked to serve a full-game suspension for apparently trying to gouge the eyes of a Georgia running back. 
Coach Urban Meyer obliged, saying Wednesday that it was in the top-ranked Gators ’ best interest that Spikes sit out Saturday’s game against Vanderbilt. 
“I really don’t want to be a distraction to the team,” Spikes said after practice. “I want the guys to prepare without any negative things going on, and I feel like if I would play, it would be a big thing going on. I’m just try­ing to stay out of the way and just motivate the guys.” 
Meyer had faced some criti­cism for only suspending his star defender for the first half of the Vandy game. The Southeastern Conference accepted the original punish­ment. 
Spikes stuck his hand into the facemask of Georgia ’s Washaun Ealey during Florida 41-17 victory against the Bulldogs. There was no penalty called at the time, but after talk about the play spread, Meyer reviewed it and decided to punish Spikes. 
Meyer, Spikes and defen­sive coordinator Charlie Strong agreed to increase the punishment. 
“A lot of the negative things 
out there really weighing heavy on his heart right now and so we thought that, as a group, we decided the best interest just for the team to not play him Saturday, ” Meyer said. “It was a group decision and we’re doing it out of respect to our team so we can focus on trying to win our ninth game. 
“We think it’s the right thing to do. We support Brandon fully and we look forward to get back and fin­ish the season the right way.” 
Spikes is fourth on the team with 42 tackles and has three sacks. 
He considered entering the NFL draft in January, but decided to return for his sen­ior season in hopes of help­ing Florida win a third national title in four years. 
NBA 
Cavs’ West faces more charges 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Cleveland Cavaliers guard Delonte West was indicted Tuesday on additional weapons and traffic charges stemming from his Sept. 17 arrest for speed­ing on a motorcycle and carry ­prison. 
West was initially charged with just two counts of carrying a hand­gun and with driving in excess of reasonable and prudent speed. 
Court records don’t list a 
lawyer for West. His agent, Noah Croom, did not 
ing multiple  “It is our understanding  immedi­ 
weapons. The eight-c o u n t  that today’s developments are part of the legal process  a t e l y respond t o a  
i n d i c t m e n t  that continues to take place  m  e  s  - 
s h e d s n o new light on w h y We s t , 26, was rid- with Delonte and he and his legal counsel will handle that.”  s a g e s e e k i n g c o m -ment.  
ing  a  motor- W e s t  
cycle on C a p i t B e l t w a y  the a l i n  Danny Ferry Cavaliers’ general  h a s b e e n t r e a t e d  
P  r  i  n  c  e  manager  i n  t h e  
G e o r g e  ’ s  past for  
County, Md.,  b i p o l a r  
a t  1 0  p . m .  d i s o r ­ 

with two loaded handguns der, and last week his wife and a loaded shotgun. filed a domestic violence Prosecutors on Wednesday report against him in Ohio. added an 8 1/2-inch Bowie No charges have been knife to the list of con -filed. cealed weapons West was West, who could still face carrying. a league suspension over 
It’s illegal in Maryland to the charges in Maryland, carry concealed weapons made his season debut and to transport loaded during Saturday night ’s handguns. 90 -79 win against 
West was indicted on two Charlotte, scoring 13 counts of carrying a dan-points in 24 minutes. He gerous weapon, two counts was expected to play in of carrying a handgun, two Tuesday night ’s game counts of transporting a against Washington. handgun, and one count Cavaliers general manag­each of reckless driving er Danny Ferry, who along and negligent driving. The with team doctors has charges are all misde -been handling West’s deli­meanors. Each weapons cate state on a daily basis, count carries a penalty of issued a statement follow­up to three years in ing the release of the new charges against West. 
“It is our understanding that today’s developments are part of the legal process that continues to take place with Delonte and he and his legal coun­sel will handle that,” Ferry said. “We will continue to take this matter very seri­
ously and monitor and respect the legal process as it proceeds, but not speculate or comment about it.” 
Cavs coach Mike Brown didn’t want to speculate on the possibility of West doing jail time. 
“I believe in the process, I’m going to let it unfold and go from there,” Brown said. 
After the arrest, West reported to training camp 
on time but missed the team’s first four practices without an excuse. He returned, but then left the team for a week to deal with personal matters. He missed all eight preseason games and Cleveland ’s first three regular-season games. 
West, who lives in Brandywine, Md., was rid­ing a three-wheel motorcy­cle when he cut off a police officer on the belt­way in Upper Marlboro, authorities said. The offi­cer pulled him over, and the weapons were discov­ered. 
Prince George ’s County State’s Attorney Glenn Ivey said West will likely be arraigned by the end of the week, and the case could go to trial early next year. 

NCAA SOFTBALL 

Missing North Dakota softball players found dead 
Three Dickinson State students found drowned in Jeep in a pond; police do not suspect foul play, autopsies planned 
Associated Press 
DICKINSON, N.D. — Three missing North Dakota col ­lege softball players were found dead Tuesday in a Jeep pulled from a pond, and police said they believed the women were in the vehi­cle when they made two des­perate calls to friends for help. 
Police Lt. Rod Banyai said officers are investigating the cause of the deaths and autopsies are planned. He said he believes the women were in the Jeep when they called for help, but he didn’t know whether it already was under water when those calls were made. 
“At this time, foul play is not suspected,” Banyai said Tuesday night. 
Authorities had been searching since late Sunday night for Kyrstin Gemar, 22, 
of San Diego; Afton Williamson, 20, of Lake Elsinore, Calif.; and Ashley Neufeld, 21, of Brandon, Manitoba. 
The Dickinson State 
U n i v e r s i t y  s t u d e n t s  w e r e  
believed  to  be in the white  
1 9 9 7  J e e p  C h e r o k e e  w i t h  

California plates when two 
of their friends received 
telephone calls before the lines went dead. Police described the first as a “very scratchy” call for help in which one of the women said they were near a lake and water. 
Banyai said the 12 -foot deep pond where the women were found is on a farm northwest of Dickinson, a city of 16,000 people about 100 miles west of Bismarck and 60 miles east of the Montana state line. Vehicle tracks were found leading into the pond Tuesday after­noon, he said. 


“After that was located, the plane flew over the top and it could see that there was a white object in the water, ” Banyai said. The submerged vehicle was pulled from the pond about two hours later. 
Banyai said the vehicle will be checked for defects. He said authorities don ’t know how it got into the pond. 
Kyrstin Gemar’s parents, Lenny and Claire, said dur­ing an earlier news confer­ence at police headquarters, before the bodies were found, that they had talked to their daughter late Saturday night. Lenny Gemar said it was not uncommon for his daughter and her friends to go star gazing on the spur of the moment. 
The women’s families were not at the news conference where police announced the deaths. 
Students at Dickinson State, where the women were stars on the school’s softball team, led a prayer service Monday night that drew more than 300 people. Another service was sched­uled at the 2,700 -student school for Tuesday night. 
“We are very deeply sad­dened by this turn of events and we are going to mobilize all of our resources to work with the families and the students on campus, ” Dickinson State spokes ­woman Constance Walter said. “They will be greatly missed by their teammates and others.” 
The college lists Gemar as a senior business major who played third base on the softball team. Neufeld is a senior outfielder who is working on a degree in psy­chology, and Williamson, a junior, is a pitcher majoring in psychology with a minor in coaching. 
Gov. John Hoeven issued a statement extending sympa­thy to the families and appreciation to those who participated in the search, “which ended in a way we all prayed it wouldn’t.” 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

New Mexico rejects offer of silence 
Associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — University of New Mexico president David Schmidly said Wednesday that an attorney representing an assistant football coach sent a letter offering “continued media silence” in exchange for a $500,000 settlement in a dispute with head football coach Mike Locksley. 
Schmidly said the overture was rejected. 
“I outright refused it, ” Schmidly said during a news conference. “I turned the let­ter over to our legal staff and told them the answer is no.” 
Julian Haffner, a lawyer in Bethesda, Md., who is repre­senting receivers coach J.B. Gerald, didn’t immediately return telephone messages seeking comment. 
Gerald, who claims he was punched and choked by Locksley, made his first pub­lic comments about the dis­pute during an interview broadcast last week by ESPN. Schmidly said he “wouldn’t be surprised” if Gerald files a civil lawsuit against the uni­versity. 
Later, administrators released a Nov. 3 letter to Haffner in which university lawyers expressed concern that Haffner had tried to speak to other New Mexico assistants without the school’s permission. 
After weeks of criticism 
over the Locksley mess, administrators gathered reporters on campus Wednesday to clarify their version of events since the Sept. 20 altercation. 
Gerald said he sustained a split lip when Locksley struck him. Locksley admit­ted grabbing Gerald’s collar but maintains he never threw a punch. 
The latest developments changed nothing for Locksley, who last month served a 10-day suspension for his role in the 

alt ercati on. “Coach Locksley’s her investiga-Athletic director behavior surrounding tion wasn ’t Paul Krebs said able to cor ­
an argument with a
the coach will roborate
member of his staff
enter an anger Gerald’s claim management was wrong, plain and to police that program after he was 
simple.” 
the season. punched. 
“Coach Gonzales Locksley’s David Schmidly also said behavior sur -President notes gath ­rounding an ered by an 
University of New Mexico 
argument with a member of his staff was wrong, plain and simple,” Schmidly said. “He has painted this university, the athletic department, Lobo football and himself in an extremely poor light.” 
New Mexico (0 -8, 0-4 Mountain West) plays Saturday at No. 17 Utah (7-1, 4-0). 
Schmidly acknowledged the school made mistakes in fol­lowing internal personnel procedures as the investiga­tion unfolded. He also said the university improperly failed to provide records requested by several news organizations, including The Associated Press. 
“We bungled the process in the areas I have mentioned, and we have already taken steps to correct and refine 
our procedural issues, ” Schmidly said. “But, and I want to repeat this, I am not aware of any evidence that would suggest a cover-up.” 
The university’s vice presi­
dent for human resources, Helen Gonzales, emphasized 
athletics administrator were not used 
in the university’s official investigation because that person, Shannon Garbiso, was not a trained human resources investigator. 
She also said Garbiso didn’t use a tape recorder to docu­ment her meetings with assistant coaches and later compiled the notes from memory. 
Garbiso ’s notes confirm that Locksley was swinging his arms while being restrained by assistant Mike Degory. Another assistant, Cheston Blackshear, reported 
t h a t  “ L o c k s  g r a b b e d  h i m  
( G e r a l d ) b y  t h e  s h i r t  a n d  
started choking him.”  

MLB 
Cubs’ Lilly has shoulder surgery 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Chicago Cubs left-hander Ted Lilly, who’s been one of the team’s most consistent starters the last three seasons, had surgery on his left shoulder and no timetable has been set for his return. 
The Cubs said the arthroscopy and debride­ment procedure performed Tuesday by Dr. Lewis Yocum in Los Angeles revealed no major damage to Lilly’s shoulder. Yocum performed a washout and clean-up of the shoulder during the one-hour surgery. 
Lilly, who was 12-9 with a 
3.10 ERA in 27 starts this season, said he was told ini­tially he might not be able to start throwing for four months, depending on how well his rehab progresses. 
“That could change one way or the other. My inten­tion is to try to get back as fast as I can without setting myself back,” Lilly said Wednesday during a confer­ence call. 
The Cubs are hoping he can join the rotation some­time in April. 
Lilly, who went on the dis­abled list in July with inflam­mation in the shoulder before returning to the rota­tion, said he hoped rest after the season ended would help. But after a month off, sur­gery became the best option. 
“Initially I wanted to try and avoid it,” Lilly said. “I figured it would get better and it did not.” 
Lilly, who signed a four-year $40 million deal with the Cubs on Dec. 12, 2006, was 15-8 in 2007 and 17-9 a year ago, making 34 starts each season. 
He couldn’t pitch the way he wanted to with the shoul­der continuing to bother him. 
“My symptoms were to the point it was affecting the way I was throwing and I didn’t feel like I was able to throw the ball without pain and from the normal arm slot that I need to,” he said. “All in all, the news was good to come out of it (the surgery). There wasn’t anything struc­turally wrong with my shoul­der or any significant dam­age on the inside.” 
General manager Jim Hendry said the surgery shouldn’t alter the team’s off­season plans because the Cubs hope Lilly will be back in April. Lilly turns 34 in January. 
“We don’t want to take that spot away from Ted,” Hendry said. 
Hendry was asked if the Cubs might now consider re­signing free agent right-han­der Rich Harden or adding another pitcher. The team is having organizational meet­ings this week in Arizona. 
WGC 

Woods and Mickelson face off at world championships 
Associated Press  are able to compete in the same event here in China,”  t h i n k e v e r y o n e i s, ” Wo o d s s a i d . “ H a v i n g t h i s n o w  tournament being upgraded t o W G C s t a t u s a n d t h e  high No. 2 in the world rank­ing. The year before belonged  
SHANGHAI  — Tiger Woods  Mickelson said Wednesday on  b e c o m e  a  Wo r l d  G o l f  a ppeara n c e of 18-y ea r-ol d  to Mickelson in his first sanc­ 
and Phil Mickelson sat across  t h e  e v e  o f  t h e  H S B C  Championship, I think every- Ryo Ishikawa of Japan.  tioned international victory.  
from each other in  a  mock  C h a m p i o n s  a t  S h e s h a n  o n e  i s  v e r y  e x c i t e d  a b o u t  One Chinese boy  no  more  A n d w h i l e  n o t  m a n y k n e w  
g a m e o f C h i n e s e c h e c k e r s  I n te rnatio n al Golf Club. “ I  what this tournament  means  than 10  was  so  him at the time,  
against the spectacular back- think that it will provide some  in the scope of things, not just  exc ite d  to  se e  Yang introduced  
d r o p o f S h a n g h a i ’s t r e n d y B u n d d i s t r i c t . L a t e r, t h e y p o s e d w i t h t h e H S B C Champions trophy. The world’s best two play­ers have been taking part in plenty of photo opportunities  exposure to the game of golf throughout the country, and I’m hopeful that we compete head-to-head over the week-e n d , a n d a r e b o t h i n c o n -tention.” The HSBC Champions might  here in China but in all of A s i a . A s a p l a y e r, w e a r e looking forward to playing this golf course against such a great field.” The field includes defending c h a m p i o n S e r g i o G a r c i a ,  Woods that he r a c e d u n d e r the ropes with a c a m e r a draped around his neck to get a c l e a r s h o t ,  “As a player, we are looking forward to playing this golf course against such a great field.”  himself in 2006 by finishing two s h o t s a h e a d o f Woods. “ T h e b i g g e s t memory is of sit­ting with Tiger  
together lately.  be the appropriate way to cel­ t h r e e -t i m e  m a j o r  w i n n e r  only for a secu­ d u r i n g  t h e  
O n l y s i x w e e k s a g o i n Atlanta, they shared the spot-l i g h t a t t h e To u r  ebrate a phenomenal year for golf in Asia. Y.E. Yang of South Korea  Padraig Harrington, British Open champion Stewart Cink and Lee We s tw o od, who is  r i t y g u a r d t o g e n t l y s c o o p him up and put  Tiger Woods PGA Tour golfer  awards ceremo­ny,” Yang said. “Having my pic- 
C h a m p i o n s h i p  w h e n  made history in two respects  leading the Race to Dubai  on  him back in the  ture taken with  
Mickelson  won  the  tourna- a t  t h e P G A C h a m p i on s hip ,  the European Tour.  gallery.  Tiger  was  prob­ 
ment by three  b e c o m i n g  t h e  Wo o d s  i s  n o  s t r a n g e r  t o  H y s t e r i a e r u p t e d  o n  t h e  ably the biggest thrill.”  
s h o t s  o v e r  first Asian-born  p l a y i n g  o v e r s e a s ,  h a v i n g  14th hole when Woods and  That was nothing compared  
Wo o d s ,  a n d  golfer to win  a  played at least  one  interna­ caddie Steve Williams stopped  with Yang taking Woods apart  
Woods hoisted the FedEx Cup  “I’m excited that Tiger  m a j o r a n d t h e f i r s t p l a y e r t o  tional tournament every year since his pro debut in 1996.  for a bathroom break, with Williams leaving the golf bag  at Hazeltine, then hoisting his golf bag over his shoulders  
t r o p h y.  T h e n  and I are able to  w i n  a  m a j o r  But while that familiar spin- just off the tee. Within  sec- a f t e r  w i n n i n g  t h e  P G A  
came a trophy they shared at the Presidents  compete in the same event here in China.”  w h e r e Wo o d s h a d t h e l e a d g o i n g i n t o t h e  ning globe — the World Golf Championship logo — is now found on the bright red signs  o n d s , s o m e 5 0 f a n s h a d i t s u r r o u n d e d , g a w k i n g a s though a meteorite had fallen  Championship. Yang said he is not quite as relaxed at the HSBC Champions as he was  
C u p ,  w h e r e  final round.  around the course, there is no  o n  S h e s h a n I n t e r n a t i o n a l .  three years ago.  
both produced u n b e a t e n records in San  Phil Mickelson PGA Tour golfer  O n l y a w e e k a g o , t h e f i r s t Asian Amateur  denying this tournament has a different feel. HSBC has expanded its pro- One woman giggled as she timidly stroked the Kiwi head cover on Woods’ 3-wood until  “There’s a little more pres­s u r e , I g u e s s , ” h e s a i d . “Maybe it’s because Tiger is  
Francisco.  C h a m p i o n s h i p  motional effort to the point  security shooed her away.  here. Maybe it’s because I’ve  
H a l f w a y  w a s  s t a g e d  a t  t h a t  i t  h a d  s a n d  i n  t h e  E v e n  t h e  e x c u r s i o n s  t o  been through a lot of tourna­ 
a r o u n d  t h e  M i s s i o n  H i l l s  bunkers on the practice range  Shanghai’s massive metropo­ ments. Maybe it’s because of  
world, they  are  going  at  it  Golf Club in China, with the  p a i n t e d r e d , i t s c o r p o r a t e  lis have been adventurous, as  t he  stres s  fina l l y t ri c k ling  
again.  winner awarded a spot in the  color. It also had pictures of  car s  we ave  s ix-wi d e along  down. As I told you, I’m try- 
Despite a 78-man field from  M a s t e r s  n e x t  y e a r  a n d  a n  Wo o d s ,  M i c k e l s o n ,  three-lane highways.  ing to take it as just an ordi­ 
23 countries  at  this World  exemption into the final stage  Harrington, Geoff Ogilvy and  “ A m a z i n g , ”  N i c k  Wa t n e y  nary tournament.”  
G o l f  C h a m p i o n s h i p  — t h e  of British Open qualifying.  Paul Casey painted  on  eleva­ said. “The lanes are more like  From red sand in the prac­ 
strongest field  ever  assem- The year ends with the first  tor doors at the official hotel.  suggestions.”  tice range bunkers to Woods  
ble d i n As ia  — Wo o d s a n d  World Golf Championship in  Advance tickets sold at dou- T h e l i s t o f c h a m p i o n s  a t  a n d  M i c k e l s o n  l e a d i n g  a  
M i c k e l s o n  r e m a i n  t h e  t o p  Asia that counts toward the  ble the rate compared with  S h e s h a n  I n t e r n a t i o n a l  i s  w o r l d -c l a s s f i e l d , t h e r e i s  
attraction.  world ranking.  last year, a product of Woods  impressive. Garcia  won  last  nothing ordinary about this  
“I’m excited that Tiger and I  “I’m looking forward to it. I  returning  to  Shanghai, the  year, pushing him to a career- tournament  

MLB 

Matsui leads Yankees to 27th World Series title 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Paint the town in pinstripes! Nearly a decade after their dynasty ended on a blooper in the desert, the New York Yankees are baseball’s best again. 
Hideki Matsui tied a World Series record with six RBIs, Andy Pettitte won on short rest and New York beat the Philadelphia Phillies 7-3 in Game 6 on Wednesday night, finally seizing that elusive 27th title — the most in all of sports. 
It was the team’s first since winning three straight from 1998-2000. 
Matsui, the Series MVP, powered a quick rout of old foe Pedro Martinez. And when Mariano Rivera got the final 
out, it was ecstasy in the Bronx for George Steinbrenner’s go-for-broke bunch. 
What a way for Alex Rodriguez, Derek Jeter and crew to christen their $1.5 bil­lion ballpark: One season, one championship. 
And to think it capped a sea­son that started in turmoil — a steroids scandal involving A-Rod, followed by hip surgery that kept him out until May. 
“My teammates, coaches and the organization stood by me and now we stand here as world champions,” Rodriguez said. “We’re going to enjoy it, and we’re going to party!” 
During postgame cere­monies on the field, the big video board in center flashed: “Boss, this is for you.” And commissioner Bud Selig dedi­cated the moment to Steinbrenner. 
About 100 miles south, dis­appointment. 
For Chase Utley and the Phillies, it was a frustrating end to another scintillating season. Philadelphia fell two wins short of becoming the first NL team to repeat as World Series champions since the 1975-76 Cincinnati Reds. 
Ryan Howard’s sixth-inning homer came too late to wipe away his World Series slump, and Phillies pitchers rarely managed to slow Matsui and the Yankees’ machine. 
“It’s important in our next couple years to stay afloat,” Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said. “I know we can do better.” 
In a fitting coincidence, this championship came eight years to the day after the Yankees lost Game 7 of the 2001 World Series in Arizona on Luis Gonzalez’s broken-bat single off Rivera. 
New York spent billions try­ing to get back. At long last, it did. 
“We’re looking forward to this parade,” Jeter said. 
Hey Babe and Yogi, Mr. October and Joltin’ Joe — you’ve got company. Mark Teixeira, CC Sabathia and a new generation of Yankees have procured their place in pinstriped lore. 

And for the four amigos, it was ring No. 5. 
Jorge Posada, Jeter, Pettitte and Rivera came up together through the minors and were cornerstones for those four titles in five years starting in 1996. 
Now, all on the other side of age 35, they have another suc­cess to celebrate. And surely they remember the familiar parade route, up Broadway through the Canyon of Heroes. 
Indeed, a New York City-sized party is next. Nine years in the making, with all the glitz and glamour this tony town can offer. 
“You never know when you’re going to get back here,” Posada said. 
Carrying flags that read 2009 World Series champions, Joba Chamberlain and Nick Swisher led a victory lap around the warning track. Players high-fived fans, then sprayed bubby behind the mound. 


NCAAs 
continued from page 24 
es and were viewed as the underdog in some of their wins. 
“Knowing the Big East, every team can beat us and we can beat every team,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
While Notre Dame’s current record is almost identical to what it was at this time last year, the team was a dead lock to make the NCAA Tournament in 2008. This year, it’s not so certain. The Irish were 36th in the final Ratings Percentage Index ranking of the season, and 32 teams are slotted for the tour­nament. 
“[The conference tourna­ment] is very important,” Clark said. “We need to get some wins. It’s quite different because the last couple years we’ve felt comfortable with our position at this time so it hasn’t been the same impor­tance. But there’s no question this time it’s important.” 
The 2009 season has been one of stops and starts — an encouraging victory followed by a demoralizing loss, and repeat. 
Notre Dame began the sea­son ranked at No. 10 and picked to win the Blue Division. It handily defeated No. 22 Michigan 5-0 in its first game. Now, the team is unranked and received just four points in the latest coach­es’ poll. 
The conference tournament is single-elimination, so the Irish will need to put a win­ning streak together for just the third time this season. 
“In the tournament you can’t go up and down,” Clark said. “If you go down you go out. There’s no question we have to put some runs together, that becomes very important. I like that sudden death ele­ment. It will certainly bring a much greater sense of urgency to the team.” 
Clark laid out goals in the beginning of the season that he said are still reachable despite the setbacks the Irish have faced this season. Highest among those goals was to make his ninth straight NCAA Tournament, and possi­bly to go far. 
“Nearly all the goals are still ahead of us,” Clark said. “You obviously want to win the Big East tournament. We’ve got to get into the NCAAs. I think if we get a couple of wins we’ll be in good shape for the NCAAs.” 
The Irish lost to South Florida in the semifinals of the Big East tournament in 2008, and then fell to Northwestern in the second round of the NCAAs. Clark said he hopes to do better in each. 
“That is the test of this squad, how much further we can take this,” he said. “And they’re a very capable squad. They’re very close to being a good team and the test is to get the consistency. This is the time when you want to get hot. It doesn’t matter what’s come before. Now we’ve got to start winning games and play­ing well.” 
Notre Dame earned a first-round bye in the Big East and will begin play Sunday at home against the winner of Marquette and South Florida. The semifinals and finals will be held Nov. 13 and 15 at West Virginia. 
Notre Dame hopes to exit Morgantown and head to the national tournament. 
“There’s no silverware in the cabinet right now and we need some silverware. We want to get that trophy,” Clark said. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
NBA 

Garnett leads Celtics in return to Minnesota 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Kevin Garnett had 12 points and 11 rebounds in his third game back in Minnesota since he was traded in 2007, helping the Boston Celtics remain unde­feated with a 92-90 victory over the Timberwolves on Wednesday night. 
Rajon Rondo scored 14 of his 18 points in the third quarter for the Celtics (6-0), who join the Denver Nuggets as the only two teams in the league with­out a loss. 
Garnett’s former team gave his current one all it could han­dle. The Wolves had a chance to tie in the final 10 seconds of the game. But Garnett forced a jump ball with Corey Brewer on an amazing defensive play to stay undefeated in five games against the Timberwolves 
Oleksiy Pecherov scored a career-high 24 points and Al Jefferson added 18 points for the Timberwolves, who led throughout the first three quar­ters before Eddie House hit a 3­pointer at the buzzer to tie it going into the final period. 
Garnett then made two nice passes to create easy layups to give the Celtics a 91-88 lead with 3 minutes to go. 
The young Timberwolves had several chances down the stretch to tie or take the lead, but their inexperience came through with poor shot selec­tion and rushed attempts. 
Garnett spent his first 12 sea­sons with the Timberwolves, growing up from a skinny kid that jumped straight to the pros from high school into a dominant force on both ends of the floor. He owns nearly every franchise career record worth having, but the Timberwolves decided to part ways with the only star they have ever had. 
In just his third game back in the arena that he essentially built, it would be hard to imag­ine Garnett even recognized the franchise that he put on the map. 
Every player from his final season in Minnesota is gone and so is the architect of the Garnett years — Kevin McHale. Owner Glen Taylor fired McHale this offseason, hiring David Kahn as president of basketball operations and Kurt Rambis as head caoch. 
The novelty of Garnett play­ing for another team in Target Center may have worn off, but it’s clear he is still missed by basketball fans in Minnesota. 
NHL 
Bergfors leads Devils to 2-1 win 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — The New Jersey Devils got their first break at home this season when the Washington Capitals scratched injured Alex Ovechkin from the lineup. 
The next batch of good for­tune came when Niclas Bergfors busted out with a pair of third-period power-play goals. 
Bergfors connected for goals 
3:13 apart to break open a tie game and send the Devils to a 3-2 victory over the Capitals on Wednesday night. It was only the second time this season New Jersey has won at home (2-4). 
The Devils are 7-0 on the road. 
“It’s different,” coach Jacques Lemaire said. “It’s good news and that is news.” 
Just seconds after Alexander Semin’s hooking penalty gave the Devils their third advan­tage, Bergfors took a pass from Zach Parise in the right circle and whistled a rising shot over Semyon Varlamov’s glove with 
8:40 left to make it 2-1. 
Bergfors then deflected in Travis Zajac’s long shot with 
4:50 remaining to give the Devils a two-goal edge. Bergfors’ game picked up Wednesday after Lemaire moved him to a line with veter­ans Zajac and Parise. 
Bergfors’ second goal was originally credited to Parise, but Bergfors knew it was his. 
“As soon as I touched it,” said Bergfors, who has five goals in 22 NHL games. “It was just a little tip. I’m glad we got the puck in the net. That was the best feeling.” 
The Devils ended Washington’s streak of nine straight games with a point (6­0-3) that started with a shootout loss at New Jersey on Oct. 12. The Capitals also had earned points in eight consecu­tive games against the Devils (4-0-4), but they have dropped three in a row overall — follow­ing overtime losses to the New York Islanders and Columbus. 
“Not only did some of them not stand out, but they cost us the game,” angry Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau said. “It’s a tough one to swallow.” 
Ovechkin, the NHL MVP the past two seasons, sustained an upper-body strain on Sunday against Columbus and is con­sidered week to week. Boudreau said Ovechkin told him he felt much better Wednesday. 
The Devils were more than happy not to have to worry about him. 
“The excitement level that he brings, the energy that he brings to the table — that was­n’t there,” Devils goalie Martin Brodeur said. “When Ovechkin is touching the puck, it doesn’t matter what building he plays in, everybody is looking for him to do something spectacular. It’s tough to play. 
“He is such a good player, so not having him, we’ll take it. We dodged one bullet.” 
Ovechkin missed the fifth game of his five-season NHL career, his third absence caused by injury. Washington is 1-4 without him. 
The last three penalties against Washington were taken in the offensive zone. 
“Guys didn’t come to play,” Boudreau said. “Whether they are feeling sorry for themselves because Alex is not in, I don’t know. Same thing happened last year when we went into Buffalo and got smoked 5-0 when he wasn’t there. 
“This isn’t a one man team, but those guys have got to understand that. People can get hurt at any moment.” 
Brian Rolston also scored, and Brodeur made 26 saves for New Jersey. 
Tyler Sloan scored in the first period, and Tomas Fleischmann brought the Capitals to 3-2 with 1:37 remaining. Varlamov stopped 30 shots. 
“We need to take leadership and take ownership of the dumb things we’re doing,” Washington forward Mike Knuble said. “We have to stop it.” 
Washington opened the scor­ing in the first when defense-man Sloan scored his first of the season and second in his NHL career. 
Chris Clark kept the puck in the zone, and Mathieu Perreault — In his NHL debut 
— moved into the slot. He sent a pass left to Sloan, who also sees time at forward. Sloan showed precision when he squeezed a shot between Brodeur and the left post with 
2:50 left in the period. 
New Jersey got even 3:33 into the second with a little help from the Caps. 
Jamie Langenbrunner worked the puck free in the left corner, and eventually Rob Niedermayer gained control. He handed the puck off behind the net to Rolston, who came out the right side. His pass attempt clipped Washington defenseman Mike Green and caromed past Varlamov into the net. 



Duo 
continued from page 24 
tie for first place in the one-day Alamo Invitational on Oct. 27 in San Antonio, Texas, the best individual fin­ish for an Irish golfer this season. 
“[Brophy] has the respect of her teammates because she’s able to perform consistently for us, and she’s got a really good personality,” Holt said. “That bodes well for keeping good continuity and team unity for us.” 
Huffer’s best individual per­formance came at the Windy City Collegiate, a tournament in which she shot even par and finished in a tie for fifth place. She was the top scorer for the Irish in three out of their five tournaments this season 

“[Huffer] is pretty quiet,” Holt said. “She’s kind of a silent leader. She just lets her golf game do the talking. She is just an all-around good player and good solid person. Her play has certainly earned her the respect of her team­mates, even being a sopho­more. 
Brophy and Huffer each credit each other with help­ing to improve both their individual performances as well as the team’s perform­ance. While Brophy’s leader­ship skills have helped give Huffer the confidence she needs to perform, it is Huffer’s work ethic and tech­nical skill that has most affected Brophy. 
“[Huffer] knows the mechanical part of the game much better than I do,” Brophy said. “It’s helpful to have a teammate like her to help me out with my swing, putting stroke, short game, stuff like that. She is a hard worker and dedicated to the game and this team.” 
Their on-course competi­tion has not affected their off the course relationship, as Huffer and Brophy often room together during road trips. The competition is merely meant to boost their performance, and force each other to play up to their high­est potential. 
“I know [Brophy] and I both want to individually finish the best at each tournament and we tell each other that we’re going to have to go low to beat each other every day, but we definitely keep it fun,” Huffer said. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

CHAMPIONS LEAGUE 
Liverpool in danger after draw versus Lyon 
Associated Press 
LONDON — Liverpool ’s chances of progressing in the Champions League took a big hit Wednesday when the five-time European champions conceded late to draw 1-1 at Lyon, which advanced to the next round. 
Liverpool looked to have secured victory when substi­tute Ryan Babel scored with 7 minutes left but Lisandro took advantage of a defensive error to tie the score in the last minute and put the French team through. 
With Arsenal moving to the verge of qualification with a 4-1 win over AZ Alkmaar, Liverpool is in severe danger of becoming the first English club to fall at the group stage since Manchester United in 2005. 
Even wins in its final two games may not be enough. 
Also Wednesday, Sevilla advanced to the knockout stage after its 1-1 draw at Stuttgart and Inter Milan scored twice in the last 4 minutes to revitalize its chances with a 2-1 win at Dynamo Kiev. 
But Liverpool let its winning position slip when defender Sotiris Kyrgiakos tumbled to the ground while contesting a long ball into the area, allow­ing Lisandro to steady himself and shoot past goalkeeper Pepe Reina. 
“We deserved to win,” man­ager Rafa Benitez said. “To concede a goal in the last minute is really unlucky. I will see the replay and ana­lyze carefully.” 
Goalkeeper Hugo Lloris had starred for Lyon, which won 2-1 at Anfield two weeks ago. Lloris saved from Lucas Leiva in the 69th and then helped block Dirk Kuyt’s overhead kick on the rebound. 
But Liverpool remained shaky in defense and remained under pressure even after Babel had smashed a shot past Lloris from well outside the area. 
Liverpool has just four points from four games, six fewer than Lyon and five fewer than Fiorentina, which routed Debrecen 5-2 through goals by Adrian Mutu, Dario Dainelli, Riccardo Montolivo, Marco Marchionni and Alberto Gilardino. 
“It’s hit us hard,” Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher said. “A draw doesn’t mean we were totally out of it but a win would have been great.” 
Arsenal needs just one more point to be sure of fol­lowing Manchester United and Chelsea, which advanced to the next round on Tuesday alongside FC Porto and Bordeaux. 
Cesc Fabregas put the Gunners ahead at Emirates Stadium in the 25th with a soft 20-yard shot that goal­keeper Sergio Romero let in at the near post and Samir Nasri made it 2-0 just before halftime, stepping inside a defender and placing a shot in at the post from the edge of the area. 
The Dutch side conceded again in the 52nd, giving the ball away in its own half and letting Andrei Arshavin set up Fabregas for a shot into the top corner. 
Abou Diaby made it 4-0 in the 72nd from Arshavin ’s backheeled pass. 
“Let’s keep this attitude and spirit and we can deliver something special,” Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger said. “They have a fantastic atti­tude and great quality and great spirit.” 
Standard Liege kept alive its faint hopes of securing runner-up spot to Arsenal in Group H with a 2-0 win over second-place Olympiakos. 
Arsenal has 10 points, four more than Olympiakos and six more than Standard. Even AZ still has a chance of pro­gressing despite being stranded in last place on two points. 
Sevilla advanced despite surrendering a late goal to draw 1-1 against Stuttgart. 
Sevilla had mostly backed off after Jesus Navas opened the scoring in the 14th minute at the Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan Stadium and Zdravko Kuzmanovic equalized with a powerful shot into the top of goal. 
Sevilla dropped its first points in Group G but stayed top with 10 points, while Stuttgart has three. Unirea Urziceni drew 1-1 with Rangers to move to five points, three more than the Scottish club. 
Inter Milan vaulted from last to first place in Group F, ahead of Barcelona. 
Diego Milito equalized in the 86th after Andriy Shevchenko had given Dynamo Kiev the lead mid­way through the first half and Wesley Sneijder pounced on a goalkeeping error to hit the winning goal in the 89th. 
Inter has six points in the competition’s tightest group, 
one more than Rubin and Barca, and two more than Dynamo Kiev. 


NASCAR 

McMurray gets win in last race with Roush 
Associated Press 
TALLADEGA, Ala. — When Jamie McMurray got home on Sunday night following his dra­matic win at Talladega hours earlier, he turned to his wife, Christy, and asked what they should do to celebrate his first victory in nearly three years. 
Champagne? A nice dinner? 
Not exactly. 
Christy hopped on the com­puter while her emotionally drained husband crawled into bed with the couple’s two dogs. 
Sorry, McMurray’s partying days are long gone. 
“I’ve grown up a lot the last four years,” the 33-year-old driver said. 
He hasn’t really had a choice. His four seasons at Roush Fenway Racing have been uneven at best. He moved to Roush from Chip Ganassi Racing in 2006 to compete for a championship. It simply hasn’t happened. 
McMurray failed to make the Chase in each of his four sea­sons and started 2009 knowing he’d likely be out of a job at the end of the year when Roush trimmed its Cup operation from five cars to four as part of a NASCAR mandate to limit team size. 
His impending departure, however, seemed to alleviate some of the tension between McMurray and Roush. The team owner’s tough love when McMurray struggled didn’t pro­duce the kind of results Roush expected, leading him to do something unexpected: change tactics. 
“He came to me and said ‘Jamie, I have learned that some people are motivated by humiliation, some are motivat­ed by kicking them in the butt and I’ve learned with you that you’re motivated more by posi­tive reinforcement more than me yelling at you,”’ McMurray said. 
Now the prerace talks between owner and driver are friendlier. There are hand­shakes, compliments and the occasional joke. 
There was plenty to smile about in the fading twilight at Talladega, where McMurray avoided the usual carnage to pick up his first victory since the 2007 summer race at Daytona. 
McMurray and Roush doused each other with champagne, and Roush sounded wistful talk­ing about McMurray’s impend­ing departure. 
“(It’s) a great sadness, but I hope that we can win another race with Jamie, and certainly am happy for this one,” Roush said. “The guys did a nice job. The car had speed in it, and they didn’t make a mistake all day.” 
It’s a difficult task at the noto­riously tricky 2.66-mile tri-oval. But after wrecking six laps in at the spring race at Talladega, McMurray opted to hang toward the back early on Sunday during the single-file parade. He figured he was in good company running along­side three-time defending Cup champion Jimmie Johnson. 
“I thought (Jimmie) has pretty good luck,” McMurray said. “If I’m around him, that’s a good sign.” 
McMurray began his move to the front with about 50 laps to go, and benefited from a deci­sion to take two tires instead of four on his last pit stop. It gave him the track position he need­ed to get to the front, and he found a friend in teammate Matt Kenseth, who gave McMurray a partner to fend off the usual late-race insanity. 
“I was lucky he was behind me,” said McMurray, who is close friends with Kenseth. “He kept pushing me until the end. The fact he was behind me made it easier.” 
Yet the win may have been a perfect summary of McMurray’s time at Roush. Instead of talk­ing about his brilliant run, much of the postrace questions surrounded NASCAR’s edict to ban bump-drafting in the cor­ners, Johnson’s move toward a fourth straight title or McMurray’s own future. 
“It just kind of is what it is,” said McMurray, who admitted to googling himself after the race to read the coverage. “I’ll just take it for what it’s worth. It was big for us and big for our team.” 
Particularly crew chief Donnie Wingo, who worked with McMurray at Ganassi Racing before coming over to Roush. 
“To do it with your friends, it 
was  really special  to  me,”  
McMurray said.  
And  the  resume  booster  

couldn’t have come at a better time. It’s no fun being a free agent driver in the middle of a recession. 
Full-time job opportunities are hard to come by, and there’s only one job that’s really open right now: the No. 1 Earnhardt Ganassi Chevrolet. 
McMurray is well aware of the speculation he may be heading back to Ganassi, the place where he began his career. He said he still has a good relationship with Ganassi and Felix Sabates, and Sabates said earlier this month he held no grudge toward McMurray for his decision to leave for Roush. 
The truth was, Ganassi wasn’t that good at the time and Roush was coming off a year in which all its cars got into the Chase. 
“When Jamie (McMurray) went to Roush, they were on top of the world,” Sabates said. “They had just won the champi­onship.” 
Something McMurray expect­ed to duplicate. He never imag­ined he’d fail to make the Chase in four years with Roush. Yet he’s not angry. He gladly went and tire-tested at Daytona on Tuesday even though he knows he won’t be in the No. 26 next year. Wednesday he headed to Roush’s shop to hang out with the team and celebrate his win. 
If he wants to get in the Chase, he’ll have to do it some­where else. Ganassi seems to be the landing spot, and McMurray said Wednesday he expects an announcement on his future before the end of the season. 
The Ganassi team he would head back to isn’t the same one he left. McMurray has marveled at the success of EGR driver Juan Pablo Montoya, who is fourth in the Chase standings heading into this weekend’s race at Texas. 
“Ganassi’s team right now is as good as anybody,” he said. 

Veterans 
continued from page 24 
doing what they do well.” 
Barlow said the consisten­cy in leadership helps the captains and the team. 
“We know how they react to what we say and what we’re doing,” she said. “It’s easier for us to be able to lead by example, lead them by showing them and by what we say.” 
While the team is dominat­ed by upperclassmen, the younger players will not be cast aside, McGraw said. In fact, in Tuesday’s 97 -53 exhibition win over Indianapolis, the top three scorers were underclassmen who came off of the bench. Freshman forward Skylar Diggins and sophomore guard Erica Solomon each scored 17 points, and sopho­more guard Natalie Novosel added 13. 
“We’re expecting every­body to contribute,” McGraw said. “We don’t look at it as seniors have to do this many things and freshman have to do this. It’s going to be a team effort, and different people will have to step up on different nights and play well. 
“I think everybody wants to win. I don’t think anybody cares who’s hot on a particu­lar night, they’ll just try to get them the ball.” 
While the offense drew attention in the win, the cap­tains said the team spends a lot of time in practice work­ing on defense. 
“We’ve picked up the intensity a lot on the defen­sive end and I think that was the main focus in preseason as well,” Barlow said. “The defensive intensity has picked up dramatically.” 
After all, the team does not want to see a repeat of last year when they once again host the first two rounds of NCAA regional play in March 2010. Though the team is just beginning a long season, Notre Dame has the playoffs in the back of its mind. 
“We want to be playing our best basketball in March,” McGraw said. “We feel like we’ve got a lot to accom­plish.” 
Lechlitner said the team is able to prove itself and to reach those accomplish ­ments. 
“Our first goal is just to play to our potential,” she said. “We’ve got a lot of tal­ented players on our team and a lot of good things can happen. If we have the right chemistry and everyone does what she needs to do, our team’s success is really just going to skyrocket from there.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Fast-food chain whose logo 
1 Paper carrier 
features a 8 Raised Cain modified Italian flag
15 Heaped together 35 Defeated, as at
16 Element used in a Nathan's hot
fire retardants 
dog contest 17 Something made 39 “___ It Time” to order? (1977 hit) 
18 With 55-Across, 41 Hip (to) direction 42 Jag indicator (and 45 Cockney, e.g. 
what to draw in 47 Been abed the center of this 
puzzle) 48 Ship's restingplace
19 Women who get 49 “I have an idea
high? 
…” 21 Lay 50 Global finance 22 Med. readout 

org.51 Story that begins 25 Euripides play or “All children, 
its heroine 
except one, 26 “Catch!” grow up” 
27 Its motto is 
54 Place name “Duty, Honor, popular in the Country” 1990s 55 See 18-Across 
30 Apple gadget 

56 “Mr. Pim Passes 31 “The ___ By” playwright 
Report” 
60 “The Lion in 32 Cold war grp. Winter” queen 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


61 Like penthousesuites vis-à-vis other apartments,typically
62 Melancholy63 Picnic pest,informally 
Down 
1 Attack signal 
2 Santa ___ 
3 Bit of art on a chest, in slang 4 Balancing pros 5 Hawaii county
seat 6 Toymaking
center? 7 Recliner feature 8 “Nightline”
presenter 9 Sing like AndyWilliams or Russ 
Columbo 
10 ___ River, N.J. 
11 Titus or Tiberius: 
Abbr. 
12 Somethingneeded for a 
change 
13 Dubious 
14 Nag 
20 It may be red or brown 
22 Series conclusions: Abbr. 
23 Remote ancestor? 
24 Arizona's ___ 
Mountains 
26 Get the lead out 
28 Pat of “Knute Rockne All American” 
29 As such 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  
62  63  

Puzzle by Patrick Blindauer & Rebecca Young 
30 Trim, as a 40 Could fall either topiary way
33 Long-running TV 41 Features of series set in some sandals Colorado 
42 Slanders really 36 Puts on badly

37 How to ___ knot 43 Bobby's wife on(Boy Scout's “Dallas”lesson) 
44 Ransacked 38 One of eight

English kings, to 46 “Right you ___!” a 45-Across 48 Spanish kisses 
51 Soul food side dish 
52 Le Havre honey 
53 “Well done!” 
55 Split 
57 Pie-eyed 
58 Name tag? 
59 Give all for one or one for all, e.g.? 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, November 5, 2009 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Teammates Brophy, Huffer push each other, lead Irish 
“As teammates, we have Huffer leads the Irish in stroke each other in order to help be “[Brophy] came into this 
By ERIC PRISTER 

always been encouraging and average, shooting less than more competitive as a team. year and wanted to be that 
Sports Writer 

positive towards each other,” half a stroke better than [Huffer] is one of the best person,” coach Susan Holt Huffer said. “I think this past Brophy, and her average finish players in every field we said. “She wanted to be a 
Throughout Notre Dame’s season though, we have really is only one place higher than play. If I can keep up with her, team captain. She wanted that fall season, senior Annie gotten into pushing each other her senior teammate. I’m doing all right.” role, that position, that Brophy and sophomore Becca to do our best at every tourna-“I think the best part about While Huffer holds a slight responsibility, and I think that Huffer have been outplaying ment and figuring out how we having a teammate like advantage on the course, showed a lot of growth and their competition, leading the can help each other improve.” (Huffer) is that she pushes me Brophy remains the off-course maturity to want to be that Irish to a huge jump in the This competitive spirit has to be better every time we leader of the Irish squad. person.” rankings. It is their competi-paid off for Brophy and Huffer, play,” Brophy said. “At the Named captain at the begin-Ending the fall season on a tion against each other, how-who have finished first and very beginning of the year, we ning of the season, she has the high note, Brophy finished in a ever, that truly brings the most second for the Irish in four of had a team meeting about ability to lead vocally as well out of the stellar Irish golfers. their five fall tournaments. being more competitive with as by example. see DUO/page 21 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
No substitute for experience 
Notre Dame returns all 12 players from ‘08 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
After Notre Dame fell 79-71 to Minnesota in a shocking first round playoff game in March, 12 players left the Joyce Center stunned and dis­appointed. 
They will enter a different arena, but the 12 players are the same, and they’re ready to forget the ugly end to the 2008-2009 season. 
“It’s a new season, I think we’re starting fresh,” coach Muffet McGraw said. “We have great leadership and good energy.” 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
The No. 4 Irish did not lose 

Irish senior guard Lindsay Schrader dribbles up the court during Notre Dame’s 97-53 exhibition victory over Indianapolis at Purcell 
a single player to graduation 

Pavilion Tuesday. Notre Dame, ranked No. 4 in the preseason AP poll, returns all 12 players from last season’s team. 
after last season, and now return a squad of seasoned upperclassman. there, everyone has been captains Ashley Barlow and squad again for the 2009 -well together and I think they 
“The experience level is through it. So many people Erica Williamson bring even 2010 season. complement each other really something that is so nice to can help the freshmen more experience to the table “I think we have great lead-well. They have different have come tournament time,” through things. We’ve all been — all three were captains in ership,” McGraw said. “I think strengths and they’re each senior captain Melissa there, done that.” their junior year. The team they’re doing a remarkable Lechlitner said. “We’ve been Lechlitner and fellow senior elected the three to helm the job. I think they’re working see VETERANS/page 22 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Team fghts for NCAA berth 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
If Notre Dame wants to land in the NCAA Tournament, it needs to take a big leap through the Big East. 
On paper, the Irish (10-7-1, 8-3 Big East) look good to go in the conference tournament 
— they finished second in the Big East Blue Division and defeated both No. 1 Big East seeds, Connecticut and Louisville, during the regular season. 
But the Irish have learned the hard way that there are no sure things in the Big East, as they were favored in all three of their conference loss-
see NCAAS/page 20 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Frilling to compete in ITA Indoor Tourney 
Observer Staff  Report 
One week after taking run­ner-up in the singles compe­tition at the Midwest Regional , sophomore Kristy Frilling will compete at the ITA National Indoor Championships beginning today in New Haven, Conn. 
No. 20 Frilling will take on California’s No. 26 Mari Andersson in the first round of the singles tournament at 1 p.m. 
The Sidney, Ohio native is no stranger to this level of competition. Last season as a freshman, Frilling and teammate Kelcy Tefft (’08) advanced to the finals of the doubles competition before falling in the championship match to Fresno State’s Renata Kucerkova and Anastasia Petukhova. 
Frilling boasts a 5-2 record on the season in sin­gles matches and leads the Irish at the No. 1 singles position. 
The National Indoor Championships feature a 32­player singles field and 16 doubles teams. 
The rest of Notre Dame’s squad will travel to Kalamazoo, Mich. for its first match of the season when it competes in the Western Michigan Invitational on Friday. 






