IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, November 16, 2009 observer Pittsburgh 27, Notre Dame 22 
Comeback canceled 
Irish drop second straight game as comeback falls short at Pittsburgh 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
PITTSBURGH — Golden Tate nearly brought the Irish back, but he couldn’t quite do it alone. 
Neither could Dion Lewis, but he did enough. 
Lewis rushed for 152 yards and a touchdown and No. 8 Pittsburgh beat Notre Dame 27-22 Saturday. 
“It was a great win for the program, a great win for the kids, particularly those who were around here five years ago when we had a bad experi­ence here,” said Panthers coach Dave Wannstedt, refer­ring to Notre Dame’s 42-21 win over Pittsburgh in 2005 in both his and Irish coach Charlie Weis’ debuts. 
The loss dropped the Irish to 6-4, while the Panthers moved to 9-1, 5-0 in Big East play. 
“It’s dismal,” junior line­backer Brian Smith said of the mood in Notre Dame’s locker room. 
Pittsburgh quarterback Bill Stull completed 15-of-27 passes for 236 yards and a touchdown. 
Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen threw for 283 yards, most of them in the second half, and a touchdown and an interception. 
Tate wouldn’t let the Irish lose. Down 27-16, he caught a punt, dodged a tackler and burst through the coverage team for an 87-yard return touchdown to make the score 27-22 with 7:16 left in the fourth quarter. On the two-point conversion attempt, Clausen’s shovel pass to tight end Mike Ragone fell incom­plete and the score stayed the same. 


Tate  also  “You have to have faith  the ball in the  
had nine catches for 113 yards and a touchdown.  and know who you’re throwing to and I knew who I was throwing to  fourth quarter. Clausen com-pleted 6-of-8 passes on an  
“We Golden  got out  with [Baldwin].”  11-play, 71-yard drive that ended  
there because he’s the one  Bill Stull  with an 18-yard touchdown pass  
guy ball  with in  the his  Pittsburgh quarterback  to Tate. made the  That score  
hands who has  27-16 with 9:10  
a  chance  of  r e m a i n i n g .  

making a big play,” Weis said. Clausen completed 9-of-12 
As good as he played, though, passes for 95 yards and a Tate wanted more. touchdown in the fourth quar­
“I didn’t get open enough,” he ter. said. “Put it on me. I need to Before that, however, the make more plays.” offense stalled. 
Notre Dame forced a punt “It was kind of weird looking and got the ball back near the back on it, I know we were end of the game, but Clausen moving the ball and then some-was hit as he threw on third thing happened to set us back,” Clausen said. 
Pittsburgh gained 193 yards on the ground while Notre Dame had only 66. Running back Armando Allen played well in the first half, but was used sparingly in the second. He finished with 14 carries for 77 yards. 
Punter Eric Maust struggled again for the Irish. He punted five times for an average of 
24.8 yards per punt and three punts traveled less than 20 yards. 
Notre Dame’s defense picked up for the offense in the first half. The Irish defense stopped Pittsburgh on the Notre Dame 43-yard line and forced a punt, but Irish linebacker Darius Fleming was called for a per­sonal foul when he ran into punter Dan Hutchins, extend­ing the Panthers’ drive. Pittsburgh got into the red zone, but stalled, and Hutchins kicked a 34-yard field goal to make the score 3-0 with 9:40 left in the first quarter. 
Junior kicker David Ruffer, filling in for freshman Nick Tausch because he was hurt during warm-ups and could not play, made a 42-yard field goal in the first quarter to tie the score at three. 
In the second quarter, Clausen heaved the ball up to receiver Michael Floyd in dou­ble coverage. Safety Jarred Holley came down with the ball, which flew long of Floyd, for Clausen’s fourth intercep­tion of the season. 
Stull connected with receiver Jonathan Baldwin for two important passes on the ensu­ing drive, one a 21-yard third down conversion to the Notre Dame 36-yard line and the next a 36-yard touchdown. The score gave Pittsburgh a 10-3 lead with 2:31 left in the first half. 
“He [Baldwin]’s awesome,” Stull said. “You have to have faith and know who you’re throwing to and I knew who I was throwing to with him.” 
Early in the second half, Stull and Baldwin again connected for a long gain. Stull threw the ball up to Baldwin, who has five inches on cornerback Darrin Walls, and he came down with it for a 51-yard completion. Walls had good position but couldn’t get high enough to make a play on the ball. That play set up a 38-yard field goal from Hutchins to make the score 13-3 with 9:15 left in the third quarter. 
Freshman running back Ray Graham finally broke through Notre Dame’s run defense with a 52-yard run down the side­line, thanks in part to a block from Stull. Graham scored on the next play from two yards out to make the score 20-3 with 6:36 left in the third quar­ter. 
Two penalties almost derailed Notre Dame’s drive after Graham’s touchdown, but Clausen scored on a quarter­back sneak. Panthers defensive end Greg Romeus blocked the extra point, however, so the score remained 20-9 with 
14:56 left in the fourth quarter. 
After waiting all game, Lewis finally broke free. He broke a 50-yard touchdown run right up the middle of Notre Dame’s defense to make the score 27-9 with 12:44 left in the game. 

Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

down and the pass fell incom­plete. The play was reviewed and ruled a fumble, and Pittsburgh ran out the clock. Clausen said he couldn’t tell during the play whether or not he fumbled or the ball was knocked out when his arm was moving forward. The Irish started to move 


player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Dion Lewis 3 Jimmy Clausen’s fourth-quarter 
“It felt like we were moving the ball
Pittsburgh running back fumble 
and we let it slip away.” 

The number of first half points for Lewis piled up 152 yards and scored Notre Dame in the past two games The controversial turnover ended the 50-yard touchdown to put the as the Irish have struggled to any hope of another late comeback 
Jimmy ClausenPanthers up by 18. move the ball. for Clausen and the Irish. Irish quarterback 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 16, 2009 


report card 
B-
quarterbacks: Jimmy Clausen was con­stantly under pressure and had an aver­
age game. The deep interception looking for Floyd was a poor decision, but the ending fumble can’t be held against him. 
B 
running backs: Armando Allen ran for 5.5 yards per carry in his return, but again 
the Irish fell behind early and abandoned the run game in the second half. 
B+ 
receivers: Golden Tate had another incredible performance, but couldn’t win the game on his own. Michael Floyd had 100 yards for the 
second straight game, but again had a cou­ple of drops. 
D+ 
offensive line: The Irish faced a very tal­ented Pittsburgh front four, and strug­gled all night trying to give Clausen time 
to throw. The Panthers did not have to bring blitzers to pressure Clausen. 
defensive line: Pittsburgh running back C Dion Lewis ran for 152 yards, and the Irish did not record a sack against Pittsburgh quarterback Bill Stull. 
C 
linebackers: Harrison Smith led the Irish in tackles and Brian Smith had a couple of 
nice defensive plays. Manti Te’o was sur­prisingly quiet in this game. 
C+
defensive backs: Darrin Walls had a nice game in his return to Pittsburgh, but just gave up two big plays against a phenom­
enal receiver in Jonathan Baldwin. 
Tackling needs improvement. 
C+ 
special teams: David Ruffer filled in nicely for Nick Tausch in the game but had an extra point blocked. Tate’s punt return 
was critical, but Eric Maust’s struggles 
killed the field position game. 
D 
coaching: The offensive gameplan was extremely tentative in a game where an early momentum swing could have gone 
a long way. The Irish never seem to start games well or seem fired up early. 
2.22 
overall: A close loss to a very good Pittsburgh team, but an all-around frustrating perform­ance. 


adding up the numbers 
Straight starts made by senior offensive tackle Sam Young, tying the Notre Dame record set by 
48
Maurice Crum Jr. and Tom Zbikowski 
100-yard receiving games for Golden Tate this 7 season, the most of any player in FBS. 

Jimmy Clausen’s rank in school history in passing touchdowns after notching one against the 
2
Panthers. 

2 
Field goals missed by Nick Tausch after the fresh­man kicker had converted a school record 14 straight. 
Average yards per punt for Eric Maust on his five attempts, with a long of 35 yards. 
24.9 

3 
Times Tate and Michael Floyd have each had 100 receiving yards in a game this season. 
The Irish have lost all three games. 

The winning percentages at Notre Dame of coaches Charlie Weis, Tyrone 
.583 
Willingham and Bob Davie. 


1 
Wins for Charlie Weis against ranked opponents in his five seasons. Weis’ record at Notre Dame is now 35-25. 




Irish need to get aggressive 
PITTSBURGH — Ever watch Golden Tate get up after a tackle? 
He stands there for a second, some­times staring down the guy who caught him, thinking. 
“I’m only on the 37-yard line right now,” he thinks, frustrat­ed. “Why am I not in the end zone?” 
He’s got a pas­sion that leads him to believe every play he’s a part of should Bill Brink result in a touch­down. He’s fiery, Managinghe’s talented and 

Editor 
he’s aggressive. 
Aggressive. Interesting idea. Going out there throwing everything you’ve got into winning the football game. 
Notre Dame played too conservative against Pittsburgh, biding its time near the ropes while dodging Pitt’s punches. 
“It was how we called the game,” Weis said. “We were playing the game relatively conservatively. When you’re playing on the road, raucous crowd, you don’t play the same way at home as you do on the road.” 
Weis has somewhat of a point. You don’t want to be overaggressive when you step into the ring against Pittsburgh, especially since the ring is in Pittsburgh’s backyard. Don’t go throwing haymakers or the Panthers will duck and retaliate. So yeah, don’t heave it up to Tate or run double reverses every play, because they’d be swinging at air and Pitt would eventu­ally pop them in the jaw. 
But don’t stay conservative and dance around Pittsburgh either. Don’t let them come to you, because they’ll wear you down with body blow after body blow so eventually you’re suck­ing wind and will be unable to protect the quarterback in the final minutes. 

Wait for your chance and time your punches. 
Here’s the thing: that aggressive­ness isn’t dormant, or hiding, or impossible to use against Pittsburgh for whatever reason. It’s there, in plain sight. 
Take the fourth-and-one play fake to Floyd against Pittsburgh. Easily Charlie Weis’ best call of the year aside from the fake field goal. Floyd is wide open, but Clausen had to throw off his back foot because he had a man in his face. If he hits Floyd in stride it’s a touchdown. Either way, the Irish land a big hook that has Pitt reeling. 
Same thing with the Wildcat plays with the Irish backed up on their own goal line. What’s the vanilla call there? Run the ball, avoid a turnover that would give the Panthers the ball in plus territory. But no, the Irish took a chance at getting something started. Weis called the plays “drive starters,” and they were great play calls, because they gave the Irish a chance to rip off a 25-yard first down and get some momentum. The execution is a different story, but the idea was there. 
But that was it. 
Why? Clausen, Floyd and Tate are the same players at home or on the road, and the Irish had Armando Allen healthy in this game. Coming into the game 6-3 off of a home loss to Navy, Notre Dame should have thrown the whole playbook at Pittsburgh. 
The Wildcat failed twice, but the Irish never revisited the formation at any point during the rest of the game. Who knows what happens? We all saw Tate’s playmaking ability. Get him the ball enough, in any formation, and good things happen. Allen ran well out of traditional backfields, racking up 77 yards on 14 carries. He could spark something as well. 
Instead, Allen’s main role in the sec­ond half was the depository for Clausen’s short dump-off passes. 
In short, the Irish needed to approach this game the way Tate did: every play presents the opportunity to knock Pittsburgh senseless. Tate took a short pass from Clausen and pow­ered his way into the end zone, then zipped by the entire Panther punt coverage unit for an 87-yard return touchdown two minutes later. A quick jab followed by an uppercut to the chin. He wanted this. 
On the road, against a top-10 team at night, is not the time for conserva­tive playcalling. The Irish had danced around so much that by the time they had to land a knockout blow, late in the fourth quarter, they had no rhythm and instead took a right cross that dropped them to the canvas. 
The Irish offense is stacked with playmakers and can hang points on anyone in the country. But those play-makers have to be utilized for this to occur. If they’re not, the offense is no better than average. 
Average won’t win football games. With Notre Dame’s season slowly careening out of control, now is not the time for the coaches to ease off the accelerator and pump the brakes. They need to floor it. 
They can land the punches. But they’ve got to throw them first. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Monday, November 16, 2009 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Panthers control line of scrimmage 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 
Junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen looks over the Pittsburgh defense Saturday in Notre Dame’s 27-22 loss to the Panthers. 
Clausen was sacked twice and hurried throughout the game by the Panthers defensive line. 
sive end Jabaal Sheard said By SAM WERNER after the game that the 
Associate Sports Editor 

Panther line worked as a unit during the week to 
Even though Dion Lewis bring the heat Saturday and Ray Graham are the night. ones that will show up on “I think in the past, I was the highlight reels, getting a little bit pre­Pittsburgh’s offensive and dictable on my moves,” defensive lines were just as Sheard said. “This week I 
crucial in the victory over Notre Dame Saturday night. 
“Pitt’s defensive ends gave us a lot of pres­sure which forced Jimmy Clausen to step up,” Irish coach Charlie Weis said. “He really stud­ied my oppo­nents and 
“Pitt’s defensive ends 

with the help 
gave us a lot of of [junior defensive
pressure which forced 

li neman]
Jimmy Clausen to 

Greg
step up.” [R omeus] getting a good push, I
Charlie Weis 

was able to 
Irish head coach 

get some good pres ­sure.” 
was under heat all game long.” 
Even though the Panthers, sacked Clausen just twice on the night, the second result­ed in a game-ending fumble, and the junior quarterback had defenders in his face throughout the game. 
Pittsburgh junior defen-

The Irish are 69th in the country in sacks allowed, having given up a total of 21 so far this season. 
An offensive line that was supposed to be much improved coming into the season also cost the Irish when senior guard Dan Wenger was whistled for a 15-yard personal foul penal­ty for a chop block on Notre Dame’s final drive of the game. The penalty pushed the Irish back from 2nd­and-1 to 2nd-and-16. 
“Just when we had momentum on that last drive, all of a sudden we’re up by the [40-yard line] and now there’s a chop block,” Weis said. 
While the Irish pass block­ing struggled, Notre Dame’s rushing attack appeared to be effective early, and junior running back Armando Allen finished with 77 yards on just 14 carries. Once the Irish fell behind, though, they were forced to all but abandon the run in an effort to play catch-up. 
On the other side of the ball, the Pittsburgh offen­sive line was just as effec­tive, allowing no sacks on senior quarterback Bill Stull. The Irish only hurried Stull four times on the night. 
The Panther offensive line also dominated in the run­ning game, as freshmen combined for 209 yards on the ground. Each also had a run of over 50 yards. 
“We let up too many big plays,” Irish junior line­backer Brian Smith said. “We lost.” 
Notre Dame’s run defense appeared to have improved in games against Washington, USC and Boston College. In each game, the Irish were able to limit the yards of usually explosive running backs. 
Last week against Navy, though, the defense appeared to take a step back, allowing 348 yards on the ground to the Midshipmen’s triple option offense. 
The Irish now rank 72nd nationally in rushing defense, allowing an aver­age of 153.2 yards per game. 
Notre Dame also notched only two tackles for loss, while Pittsburgh racked up a dominating eight tackles behind the line of scrim­mage. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Notes: Record number of close games 
By JENN METZ 
Sports Writer 
The Irish loss to the Panthers Saturday marks the eighth game Notre Dame has played in decided by seven points or less this season — a school record. The 1990 team played in seven such close games, including the Orange Bowl. 
• Junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen became the second Irish quarterback to achieve over 3,000 passing yards in both multiple and consecutive seasons in Notre Dame history (2008 and 2009). He joins Brady Quinn (2005 and 2008) in holding that title. Clausen’s one touchdown pass (to junior wide receiver Golden Tate at 9:10 in the fourth) grants him sole possession of second place on the career passing touch­down list. Saturday’s game was his 11th-straight with at least one touchdown pass. 

• 
Tate registered Notre Dame’s first punt return for a touchdown since Tom Zbikowski against North Carolina in 2006. His 87-yard run was the seventh-longest punt return in school history and the longest since 1989. 

• 
Tate and sophomore wide receiver Michael Floyd both recorded more than 100 receiving yards at the game, with 113 and 107 yards respectively. For the first time in school history, two players have had over 100 receiving 


yards in two straight weeks. Last week against Navy, Tate had 132 yards and Floyd had 141 yards. The 100-yard receiving game is Tate’s sev­enth of the season and the 13th of his career. He now is tied with Tom Gatewood (1969-71) for the Notre Dame record for 100-yard receiving games. 
• 
Tate’s 113 receiving yards bring his season total to 1,172 this season, placing him behind only Jeff Samardzija (1,249 in the 2005 season) for best in single-season school history. Tate has 2,383 career receiving yards, which ranks fourth best in Notre Dame career history. 

• 
Senior right tackle Sam Young registered his 48th con­secutive start against 


Pittsburgh, tying the school record held by Tom Zbikowski (2004-07) and Maurice Crum (2005-08). He is the only Notre Dame offensive lineman to start every game of his career. 
• Junior kicker David Ruffer started in Saturday’s game after freshman Nick Tausch suffered an injury in pregame warm-ups. The former kicker for Siegfried’s interhall football team recorded his first career point with his 42-yard field goal at 4:21 in the second quarter. He later made one of two point after attempts. Ruffer joined the team in the 2008 season before the game at Washington. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 




scoring summary 

1st  2nd  3rd  4th  
Pittsburgh  3  7  10  7  
Notre Dame  0  3  0  19  
First quarter  

Pittsburgh 3, Notre Dame 0 
Dan Hutchins 34-yd field goal with 9:40 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 62 yards, 5:20 elapsed. 

Second quarter 
Pittsburgh 3, Notre Dame 3 
David Ruffer 42-yd field goal with 5:40 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 43 yards, 4:21 elapsed. 

Pittsburgh 10, Notre Dame 3 

Total 
27 22 
Jonathan Baldwin 36-yd pass from Bill Stull (Hutchins kick) with 2:31 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 80 yards, 3:09 elapsed. 

Third quarter 
Pittsburgh 13, Notre Dame 3 
Hutchins 38-yd field goal with 9:15 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 59 yards, 2:32 elapsed. 

Pittsburgh 20, Notre Dame 3 
Ray Graham 2-yd run (Hutchins kick) with 6:36 remaining. Drive: 2 plays, 55 yards, 0:47 elapsed. 

Fourth quarter 
Pittsburgh 20, Notre Dame 9 
Jimmy Clausen 1-yd run (Ruffer kick blocked) with 14:56 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 80 yards, 6:40 elapsed. 

Pittsburgh 27, Notre Dame 9 
Dion Lewis 50-yd run with 12:44 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 80 yards, 2:12 elapsed. 

Pittsburgh 27, Notre Dame 16 
Golden Tate 18-yd pass from Clausen (Ruffer kick) with 9:10 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 71 yards, 3:34 elapsed. 

Pittsburgh 27, Notre Dame 22 
Tate 87-yd punt return (Clausen pass failed) with 7:16 remaining. 



statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession 

passing  
Clausen  27-42-283 Stull  15-27-236  
rushing  
Allen Tate Riddick  14-77 Lewis 2-5 Graham 2-0 Hynoski  21-152 3-57 2-1  
receiving  

Tate  9-113  Baldwin  5-142  
Floyd  7-107  Dickerson  4-46  
Allen  8-33  Byham  2-17  
Kamara  2-25  McGee  2-11  
Riddick  1-5  Turner  1-12  
Lewis  1-8  

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 16, 2009 

TOM LA/The Observer 


Pressure builds 
For the second straight game, the Irish struggled to score in the first half. Throughout the game, Pittsburgh’s defense put pressure from the 
edges on Jimmy Clausen and contained the wide receivers from deep passes. Fortunately, the Notre Dame defense held strong for most of the first two quarters, heading into halftime trailing 10-3. Sophomore wide receiver Jonathan Baldwin made several spectacular catches for the Panthers, who built up a 19-point lead in the fourth quarter. Freshman running back Dion Lewis broke free for a 50-yard run, and it looked like 
the game was over. But a Golden Tate punt return brought the Irish within a score of Pittsburgh, and a key defensive stop gave Jimmy Clausen and Notre Dame a chance at yet another late comeback. Pittsburgh’s pressure proved too much, however, and what was 
originally ruled an incomplete pass was reviewed and deemed a game-ending fumble. 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 



Clockwise from top: Golden Tate breaks free on a punt return for a touchdown in the fourth quarter; Tate leaps for a catch over two Pittsburgh defenders; tight end Mike Ragone leaves the field with his teammates following the game; Jimmy Clausen slides after scrambling out of the pocket; defensive tackle Ian Williams tries to bat down a pass. 



