
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Four shtdent goVt tickets announced 
Student body president and vice president candidates start campaigns, prepare for debate 
By ]ENN METZ and KAITLYNN RIELY News Writers  The candidates will meet Wednesday for a debate in LaFortune. The Notre Dame student body will vote to  because she "had the experi­ence, we got along really well, and we work well together." Weber said she'd be "crazy  taxi reform, lower textbook prices, Eddy St. Commons and the Global Water Initiative as their top priorities.  
decide the winning candidates  not to want to run with him.  The Schmidt and Weber  
Notre  Dame's  Judicial  next Monday.  "It's a great opportunity to  platform seeks to make stu­ 
Council has approved four  be given; it's a great opportu­ dents' cab rides safer and  
tickets to run for the position  Grant Schmidt and Cynthia  nity  to  serve  the  student  more convenient, initiating,  
of student body president and  Weber  body," she said.  for example,  a  South Bend  
vice president for the 2009-10  Schmidt, the current stu­ The pair have  a long list of  policy that all cab drivers  
school year.  dent body vice president, is  platforms they've presented  must display some form of  
The candidates are: junior  hoping to continue what he  under their campaign slogan,  identification and  a  phone  
Grant Schmidt and sopho­ deems a "successful" adminis­ "Rounding the Bend."  number to call in case of com­ 
more Cynthia Weber; juniors  tration  into  the  2009-10  "It  means  continuity,"  plaint.  
Laura  Burdick and  Derek  school year with a bid for stu­ Weber said. "Turning the cor­ The  duo  also  hopes  to  
Sanchez;  junior  James  dent  body president with  ner, building upon success of  implement a  system of ticket  
McCaughan and sophomore  Weber, the current sophomore  last  year  - [the  current  booklets so students can pur­ 
Tom Gorski; and freshmen  class president, as  his run­ administration] really has just  -chase cab fares ahead of time  
Luke  Lennon  and Charles  ning mate.  gotten started."  
Harig.  Schmidt  chose  Weber  Schmidt and Weber listed  see TICKETS/page 3  

Recycling 
program aids poor 
Miraculous Metals raises funds for Catholic Worker 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
In the spirit of going green, a new recycling program has been imple­mented on campus to help both the environment and the less fortunate. 
The Miraculous Metals recycling program combines environmental­ism and social justice to provide assistance to South Bend residents who reside on the streets during the frigid winter months. 
"Miraculous Metals has been doing very well so far, but we have a long way to go," said Lauren Restivo, a sophomore at Notre Dame, who is involved in the program, "Since the program is still getting off of the ground, we are still trying to get the word out about how to participate in the program and increase participa­tion." 
The program allows students at Notre Dame to raise money through the collection of aluminum cans for the Catholic Worker House, a shelter that takes in the homeless on freez­ing and sub-freezing nights during the winter. 
A portion of the proceeds will also be donated to Our Lady of the Road, which is the Catholic Worker drop-in center that takes in the homeless during the daytime. 
On campus, each dorm has a des­ignated representative who is in charge of ensuring his or her dorm's donated aluminum cans are ready for pick-up. Once a week, paid guests from the Catholic Worker House will be at Notre Dame to collect the cans. 
see METALS/page 4 


smc to offer global internships 
Group sends students around world to obtain experience 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
The Student International Business Council (SIBC) will send about 25 students to countries all over the world, including Thailand, Ghana, the United Kingdom and Belize, to work on business and humanitarian proj­ects this summer, SIBC president Matt Brownschidle said Sunday. 
The SIBC internship program offers positions primarily to fresh­men and sophomores every year, but Brownschidle said receiving an internship will be more com­petitive this year than in previous 
see SIBC/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



Iraqis reflect on changes to country 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Three Iraqi students talked about their experiences living in a country that has played a large role in recent American foreign policy in a presentation Friday entitled ''I'm From Iraq." 
The talk was the conclusion of Holy Cross College's "Faith and Culture Dialogues," a three-day event that aimed to present new perspectives on Iraq. 
The presentation featured Karam Salem and Omar Rasheed, students at Holy Cross, and Randa Al-Assadi, a student at Saint Mary's. During the intro­duction, the audience was told that the goal of the talk was to help Americans have a more per­sonal relationship with Iraq and view the country as more than just a political issue. 
"Iraq is an old civilization with a wonderful culture and a long history," Karam Salem said in his opening speech. 
Salem is originally from Baghdad, but relocated to Syria in 2006 because his Catholic fam­ily feared violence. In Nov. 2007, he was chosen for the Iraqi Student Project, a venture that allows displaced Iraqi students to continue their college education either in Iraq or abroad. 
"I was raised in a neighbor­hood that had Muslims and Christians," Salem said. "We lived in peace; there was no dif­ference between people and we all grew up amidst different reli­gions." 
see IRAQ/page 4 



Fans celebrate Super Bowl XLIII 
Cardinals," freshman
By CHRISTINE FAGAN Matthew Steed said. ''I'm 
News Writer 
rooting against the Steelers. 
I have been since the play­

As the 43rd Super Bowl offs." began, North Dining Hall "We're not for the was filled with Pittsburgh Cardinals," said two fans wearing Steelers gear Cowboys fans, "we're just and Arizona fans wearing against [Steelers fans]." Cardinals gear. Super Bowl parties began 
But Steelers fans clearly all around campus at about outnumbered Cardinals 6 p.m. Students rushed to fans. The Huddle in LaFortune to 
"You don't deserve fans grab last-minute snacks, unless you win," freshman quickly purchasing chips Sarah Dzurik said. and salsa and liters of soda. 
The Steelers did win, with In dorm rooms, lounges, a final score of 27-23 in the -hall basements and off­match-up that took place in campus apartments, fans Tampa, Fla. and non-fans watched the 
But not everyone was Cardinals' Kurt Warner happy with the results. 
''I'm not rooting for the see GAME/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 2, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Civil War Re enachnent 
When was the last time you saw somebody wearing a hoopskirt? For that matter, when was the last time you wore a hoopskirt? 
For me, the answer to both ques­tions is late last August. 
In fact, I actually happen to own a hoopskirt, an 1800s corset, petti­coats, two hoopskirt-equipped dresses and a bonnet which I con­sider rather fetching. 
I'm a Civil War re-enactor. 

Tess Civantos 
No, I don't speak in 1800s 

News Wzre
dialect, and I 

Editor
don't run away in terror when­ever a bus pulls 
up. 

But I do use a bucket, washboard and clothesline to do laundry when I'm at work. I do wear a snood (ten points if you know what a "snood" is). 
I'm not the kind of re-enactor who travels around with a troop of re-enacting Union or Confederate soldiers (We all know what those girls are like). 
I work at a museum -in the schoolhouse, actually. I love it. Anyone who's ever read or watched the "Little House on the Prairie" series, "Anne of Green Gables," or "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer" has had secret fantasies about the one-room schoolhouse with rows of wood-top desks, boys on one side and girls on the other. The coal­burning potbelly stove in the mid­dle filled with dry cornhusks the children bring. The old McGuffey's Reader textbooks with their ancient spelling lessons and quaint fables. The two outhouses out back, one for boys and one for girls. The slates and chalk at the narrow little desks, where the re­enacting children often crowd two to a seat -not because they need to, but because they like to sit with their friends. 
When the students are all hunched over their slates working diligently on their spelling or sums, the stove is humming, and there are no tourists snapping photos of us, I could swear it really is 1862. 
I'm not sure why I love re-enact­ing, although I certainly do. I plan to keep re-enacting my whole life. Considering I started when I was nine years old, the reasons I do it have certainly changed over time. 
I think it used to just be an excuse to play dress-up. And hon­estly, that's probably still a big part of it. It might be the peace I feel at Naper Settlement Museum, where I work. No ringing phones, no blar­ing music or TV, just quiet after­noons spent knitting, reading aloud, and giving the kids as many recesses as they want. 
But the truth is, I think the real reason I love it is because, for the four or five or six hours that I'm there, I'm living in 1862. Who has­n't wished they could time-travel? Because of my incredible job, I have the rare privilege of living in a different place and time whenev­er I want. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Jan. 30 Hockey Insider, the cover photo was incorrealy arrribured..Wu Yue was the photographer. In the Question ofthe Day section ofthe Jan. 30 issue of The Observer, The Observer incorrectly spelled Jonathan Bell's name. The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD BE YOUR IDEAL SUPER BOWL HALFTIME SHOW? 







Aaron Quarles Christie Marden Kris Perez Matt Schueler Lee Marsh 
junior junior senior junior
sophomore
Siegfried Cavanaugh off-campus Knott
Keough "Notre Dame "A 30-minute "The Puppy "A Donny and
"Radio Head winning a 'Real Men of Bowl." Marie reunion 
performing. " 
basketball Genius' game. commercial. " 

WU YUEfThe Observer 
The Notre Dame men's hockey team celebrates a 3-2 win Saturday over Michigan in Ann Arbor. The Irish are ranked No. 1. 
OFFBEAT 

Apostrophes dropped from signs in English town 
LONDON -On the streets of Birmingham, the queen's English is now the queens English. 
England's second-largest city has decided to drop apostrophes from all its street signs, saying they're confusing and old-fashioned. 
But some purists are downright possessive about the punctuation mark. 
It seems that Birmingham officials have been taking a hammer to grammar for years, quietly dropping apos­trophes from street signs since the 1950s. Through the decades, residents have fre­quently launched spirited campaigns to restore the missing punctuation to signs denoting such places as "St. Pauls Square" or "Acocks Green." 
This week, the council made it official, saying it was banning the punctuation mark from signs in a bid to end the dispute once and for all. 
Sister beats up bride at wedding reception 
HEBHON, Ind. -A woman who wasn't invited to her sis­ter's wedding reception showed up anyway and attacked the bride, pulling out clumps of her hair, police said. Annmarie Bricker, 23, of Valparaiso, was arrested on a misdemeanor charge of battery. 
Jeremy Glotzbach told police he was hosting a reception for newlyweds Nicholas Landry and Lori Kappes at his home on Jan. 23 when Bricker, Kappes' sis­ter, attacked Kappes on the front porch. 
Bricker pulled out clumps of Kappes' hair, struck her head and took the bride to the ground during a struggle, according to the Porter County Sheriffs Department. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

_. 
II( 
(.) 0 



HIGH 27 HIGH 19 HIGH 30 HIGH 18
.... 

LOW 13 LOW 10 LOW 23 LOW 13 
concert." 
IN BRIEF 

A lecture by Elizabeth Resnick on "The Graphic Imperative: International Posters of Peace, Social Justice & the Environment" will take place today at 7:30 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. This lecture, co-sponsored by the Department of Art, Art History, and Design, is free and open to the public. 
A debate entitled "Separation of Church and State" will be held Tuesday in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center at 4 p.m. Mark Lilla, Professor of Humanities (Columbia} and author of The Stillborn God: Religion, Politics, and the Modern West, and Daniel Philpott, Associate Professor of Political Science (Notre Dame} will debate important issues of religion, politics and their inter­section. 
Keenan Hall's annual comedy show "The Keenan Revue" will take place Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 7p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
L.A. Theatre Works presents "The Great Tennessee Monkey Trial" Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play is based on origi­nal transcripts of the famous 1925 Tennessee v. John Scopes "Monkey Trial," which challenged the newly passed Tennessee legis­lature's "Butler Act" banning the teaching of evolution in the state's public schools. Purchase tickets online, visit or call the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 
., 

~
=:iM: 
:~)~:;::. 

HIGH 35 LOW 22 
Monday, February 2, 2009 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Student Body president and vice president tickets for 2009-10 academic year, top left Grant Schmidt and Cynthia Weber, top right, Laura Burdick and Derek Sanchez, bottom left, 
James McCaughan and Tom Gorski Luke and bottom right, Lennon and Charlie Harig. 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
to reduce the need to carry cash or worry about cab driv­ers changing the a~cepted flat rate of two or three dollars. 
Schmidt and Weber told The Observer they are already working with the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, and eFollet and a University liaison to negotiate some sort of low­ering of textbook prices. 
One alternative source for buying course materials and "subverting the textbook mop.opoly," Weber said, is a Web site that would list the ISBN numbers of required reading -"the most essential way of finding your book online," she said. 
This idea would require cooperation from Notre Dame professors; Schmidt said many professors have responded positively to the idea. 
Student involvement in cam­pus expansion, particularly at the currently under-construc­tion Eddy St. Commons, is another of the main Schmidt­Weber initiatives. 
"It would be a shame for a strip on Notre Dame-leased property to not have some sort of availability for students," Schmidt said. 
Weber said she hopes the two can "push the limits of student government" by get­ting the whole undergraduate population involved in a cause: The Global Water Initiative. 
"This would be a year-long initiative," she said, involving working with existing campus clubs and their fundraisers. 
"We can sit here and talk about textbook prices ... but we're the University of Notre Dame, we're obviously service­oriented. [ ... ] We're taking one specific initiative and getting the entire student body behind it." 
Laura Burdick and Derek Sanchez 
Burdick and Sanchez, cur­rent Athletic Council co-chairs, said student government has a lot of potential. They want to maximize on that potential by doing more programming activities that "really affect students." 
Burdick, a biology major from Terre Haute, Indiana, liVI;lS in Cavanaugh. Sanchez, a political science and Spanish major with a minor in Latino Studies, lived in Carroll for two years and now lives in Duncan. 
They met freshman year when they sat together at foot­ball games, and got to know each other better on Hall President's Council, when each represented his respective dorm. 
Burdick and Sanchez told The Observer they have sever­al ambitious goals. 
"We are students that want to work for the students," Burdick said. "Not necessarily for the administration, but for the students." 
Their top priority is to create a loan forgiveness program for those who pursue a career in public service. 
"We just realized that tuition is· getting out of control here, and there's not much we can do about that," Sanchez said. 
They want to help students pay for college, and promote public service, by establishing a program that forgives the loans of students who commit to a career in public service. They said they would look into the possibility of outside fund­ing for the venture. 
Burdick and Sanchez are also interested in developing the Athletic Council as a way to "liaison between coaches and the teams and the student body." They also want to expand the current "Gold Rush" program, by providing incentives for students to boost attendance at all Notre Dame sporting events. 
The candidates want to negotiate with the Notre Dame administration and the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) to put into place a new disci­plinary system for drinking violations, one in which a first offense would lead to educa­tional development, such as an 
T alcohol assessment, rather than harsher consequences. "On game days, rather than worry about being seen hold­ing a beer, we want NDSP to worry about people that are out of control, starting fights, getting into fights, rather than worry about someone who can't grow a beard holding a beer," Sanchez said. Burdick said she wants stu­dent government to come up with activities that can make a profit, to offset costs for stu­dents. "It's not really fair for a stu­dent to pay for the concert that's coming in the spring if they don't like the band and don't want to go," Burdick said. The Burdick-Sanchez ticket wants to st_art a "tailgate row," an area for all students where they can mingle before football games. 
They said they are ready for the time pressures that come with being the leaders of stu­dent government. 
"This whole process so far has been like a full-time job, and it's definitely doable," Burdick said. "If you have an idea and you want to get it done, you make the time to do it. So I think that we feel very strongly about what we want to get done, so we will do it." 
James McCaughan and Tom Gorski 
McCaughan and Gorski told The Observer that "the most pressing issue," for both stu­dents at Notre Dame and alumni of the University, is the police presence on and off campus. 
"If we are elected, we will do everything we can to make sure students can be comfort­able when they are in situa­tions where in the past they have been afraid of very strict and aggressive disciplinary measures," McCaughan said. 
Their top priority is to per­suade the University and NDSP to scale back how strictly rules are enforced, especially at and before football games. · 
McCaughan, a junior, and Gorski, a sophomore, are roommates in Siegfried. McCaughan is a history and economics major from Key Biscayne, Fla and Gorski is an IT Management major from Omaha, Neb. 
Both were interviewed on TV last fall about tlie police pres­ence in the tailgate area. Gorski said he was inter­viewed as someone beside him was being arrested. 
McCaughan and Gorski also want the University to disre­gard evidence obtained by ille­gal searches and seizures. They want this to extend to cases in which police "are overly aggressive in shutting down an off-campus party." 
The ticket plans to, should they win, move the student government office from the second floor of LaFortune to the first floor of the building to make it more accessible to stu­dents. 
They also want to make a Facebook wall application so students can directly voice their concerns and complaints. 
Establishing an interhall laser tag league is their No. 4 priority, followed by urging student government to official­ly support the DormBooks.com used textbook program, so stu­dents can save money. 
McCaughan said he has not been a part of student govern­ment since fifth grade, but said their ticket still has the experience necessary to lead. 
" I think we can bring in new perspectives to student gov­ernment and we can identify very easily with the student government," he said. 
Their unofficial slogan, they said, is "Men of the people, working for students." 
Luke Lennon and Charlie Harig 
The freshman duo of Luke Lennon and Charlie Harig told The Observer they would "love to be a part of the political system here." 
"We can make some changes that are important to the University ... 'maybe some changes that people don't even realize they need," Lennon, the candidate for student body president said. 
The two Zahm roommates list affirmative action for beautiful women, coating bowls in the dining halls with a lubricant to prevent sticking and a value system for North and South Dining halls because of the difference in the quality of meals. 
Their affirmative action idea "pretty much consists of checking out girls before they attend the University" and giv­ing out scholarships accord­ingly, Lennon said. 
Harig said girls can both gain scholarships after they are admitted, earning what he called "walk-on status," and lose their scholarships for var­ious violations. 
The pair said they feel no one on campus enjoys eating a salad out of four bowls stuck together, so they are proposing adding a position to dining hall staffs that entails keeping the bowls lubricated, which will create a more convenient din­ing experience and help in the cleaning process. 
The Harig-Lennon ticket is relying on word of mouth to get their campaign energized. 
"We talked to everyone who gave us signatures," Lennon said. "Just to be formal, we're going to have posters out there." 
"I feel like everyone wants to vote for us, regardless of what we put up," Harig said. 
The two didn't want to put a limit of how long they'd be in office if elected. 
"Not just three years, not until we graduate," Harig said. 
"We'd be willing to fail out of the same theology class many, many times -every semes­ter," Lennon said. 
"So for infinity," Harig said. 
The first thing on the Zahm ticket's agenda if elected: a parade. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu and Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

page 4 Monday, February 2, 2009 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Months of prior planning led to "Also, we hope to encourage When recycling, students must Gotsch (mgotsch@nd.edu). Each the official start of the people to fmd new ways to help take the time to separate their off-campus residence that joins
Metals 
continued from page 1 
While the on campus participa­tion has been fairly strong, Restivo said that off-campus members of the Notre Dame community are urged to partici­pate as well. 
"The more off-campus resi­dences we can get, the larger the program will be, and the more money we will raise for the Catholic Worker House," Restivo said. 
Miraculous Metals program, which began Nov. 17. The pro­gram will run though the end of this semester and through next school year. 
The program's planners have some other goals for Miraculous Metals. 
"We hope to show people how easy it is to help out in the com­munity and help the environ­ment -all it takes is a few min­utes to separate your aluminum recycling and put it in the desig­nated receptacle," Restivo said. 
hearing about it and aren't neces­
sarily business students." 
Tovar said the internships are continued from page 1 varied, and students will do every­thing from teaching, to working in years. a law firm to working on projects 
"I think this year, the internships involving marketing or finance. are going to be more competitive Brownschidle has spent the past because the market is more com-two summers doing SIBC intern­petitive," he said. • ships, first in Thailand and then in 
Generally, freshman and sopho­Belize. mores make up the majority of the "I worked in Bangkok with an applicants, but it international trad­is likely that ing company," he more juniors will said. "You have to be in the appli-be motivated and 
SIBC 
"! think this year the 
cant pooJ driven to fmd your because the internships are own projects, so economy makes while I was there I

going to be more
it much harder worked in a variety

competitive becasue 
to obtain sum­of different divi­mer internships the market is more sions, like market­this year, ing and finance ­

competitive. " 
Brownschidle anywhere I could said. lend a hand." 
Tina Tovar. the Matt Brownschidle While most of the vice president of SIBC president internships are internships for located in different SIBC, said they countries, there hope to increase are several in the applicant pool to include stu­Washington D.C., Tovar said. dents who are not business These internships are still interna­majors. tionally focused, she said. 
"I've sent out e-mails to all of Tovar spent a summer working the departments, and I put up for the Department of Commerce fliers in the career fair," Tovar in Washington. She said her job said. "So a lot of people have been primarily involved programming for events, such as forums and vaccines that might be necessary. panels. "Although you're not getting 
"I had to come up with who's paid, the experience is more than going to be at the worth it," he · panels, how the said. agendas will work Brownschidle and planning the "Although you're not said SIBC is pt:_i­event itself," she vately endowed, 
getting paid, the 
said. so the club does
experience is more
When reviewing not get funds the applications, than worth it. " from the which are due Feb. University. A 13, the SIBC board donor started the 
Matt Brownschidle
will look for stu­endowment in
SIBC president
dents who show 1989, and the initiative, since the interest from the projects they will endowment is tackle require self-used to pay for motivation, and they prefer stu­club expenses and the student dents who have shown a dedica­internships. tion to SIBC and partieipated in The international internships th.e club's projects in the past, 
Brownschidle said. More than anything, participation in SIBC projects give students the skills they need to be successful in their internships, he said. 
"I had done a bunch of SIBC projects," Brownschidle said. 'That's where I picked up all the business skills I needed to get my internship." 
The SIBC interns do not get paid, but SIBC covers all the costs of the trip, Brownschidle said. The club covers expenses such as housing, plane tickets and any are primarily a result of network­ing with Notre Dame and SIBC alumni who work for big compa­nies or non-profit organizations and agree to take on an intern, Brownschidle said. 
Brownschidle said the intern­ships give students international business experience that they would not generally be exposed to. 
"You really have the opportllliity to see countries you would very rarely see on your own," he said. "The experiences I had as a result of the internships is something I will remember for the rest of my lilie." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 




Iraq 
continued from page 1 
Salem said his life before the war was simple and comfortable. He talked about how Americans have a misconceived notion about life in Iraq before the invasion. 
"All that you know about Iraq is from the media but the media is not always correct," Salem said. "The only problem before 2003 was that we lived as a closed country and did not know about anything outside of Iraq." 
Rasheed and Al-Assadi both agreed with Salem that life in Iraq during Saddam Hussein's rule was a time of tranquility. 
"Before the war, there was no religious conflict," Rasheed said. ''I'm a Muslim Sunni and until the war my best friend was a Christian." 
Rasheed and his family stayed in Baghdad during the invasion, but prepared to leave the city at any moment. 
"I remember those three weeks that were just full of bombing and soldiers in the streets," he said. "On April 9, 2003, we turned on the TV and did not believe the reports that American soldiers were really in Baghdad." 
After April 9, everything changed. There was no gas, no electricity, and no safety for any of the city's inhabitants Rasheed said. 
"The situation just kept getting worse each time the government changed," he said. "In 2006, the racism war began and the fear intensified. I got a fake lD that had a different religion and name because I felt threatened because of my Sunni religion." 
out in the community and help the environment." 
Restivo also said that they hoped to eventually extend and invitation to all South Bend resi­dents to participate. 
"Once the program has been well-established though, we are looking to reach out to homes in South Bend and include them in the program as well," Restivo said. 
There are a variety of ways in which students can get involved, such as taking time to recycle. 
aluminum cans from the rest of their recycling. 
Also, for students who reside on-campus, there will be dorm­wide e-mails coming soon with more information about partici­pating in the program. In addi­tion, fliers will be posted on dorm recycling receptacles indi­cating those specified for alu­minum collection for the pro­gram. 
Off-campus students can become more involved with the program by contacting Mike the program will be provided with a recycling receptacle for aluminum cans. 
Restivo highlighted that the most important aspect at keep­ing the program alive will be the participation of the student body. 
"This program is a great way to be involved in helping those less fortunate than us and the environment at the same time, and it is so simple," Restivo said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

Rasheed recalls that at the end of 2006, many people left Iraq for Syria or Jordan. 
"All anyone wanted was a sense of safety," he said. 
Randa Al-Assadi, who is also· from Baghdad, remembered the horrible conditions that caused many to suffer. 
"Everything became extremely dangerous," she said. "There were killings and kidnappings and I remember everyone just hoping that in a few months everything would be OK, but that didn't happen. 
"When I remember that feeling I feel so bad, but I accept it because this is our life," she said. 
Al-Assadi said that she applied for the Iraqi Student Project because she had no other means of continuing her education. Despite her distance from her native country, Al-Assadi con­stantly thinks about her fellow Iraqis that remain there. 
''I'm always wondering about my Iraqi brothers and sisters," she said. "We're struggling from the war; the people are strug­gling." 
In spite of the conflict that is still waging in Iraq, all three stu­dents remain hopeful for the future of their country that they love so much. 
"I think my country can heal," Al-Assadi said. "The situation is unstable right now so you can't see the good, but the peace will come and everything will be good like it was before the war. We were able to live together as brothers and sisters for millions of year and we will live that way again someday." 
College of Science Energy Challenge Launch 
4 p.. m., Monday/ February 2 Jordan Hall of Science Galleria 
Flip a Switch and Support a Student 
The College ofScience will challenge the dome on energy use. Come to the reception to learn how you can help. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 
Sponsored by the College of &-:ience Conmtittee on SustainahiHty 









ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 2, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
N. Korea warns of war with S. Korea 
SEOUL, South Korea -North Korea warned Sunday that South Korea's con­frontational policies may trigger a war on the divided peninsula, a message coming two days after the communist country vowed to abandon all peace agreements with its southern neighbor. 
llelations between the two Koreas have been strained since conservative President Lee Myung-bak took office nearly a year ago in Seoul, pledging to take a harder line on the North. Tension heightened Friday when the North said it was ditching a nonaggres­sion pact and all other peace accords with South Korea. 
The tension may lead to "an unavoidable military conflict and a war," North Korea's main Hodong Sinmun newspaper said in a commentary carried Sunday by the country's official Korean Central News Agency. 
At least 89 killed in Kenyan oil blaze 
MOLO, Kenya-An oil spill from a crashed truck erupted into flames Saturday in Kenya, killing at least 89 people who were trying to scoop up free fuel, officials said. 
Patrick Nyongesa, the regional manager for the Kenya Red Cross, said 89 people died and more than 200 were injured died after a crowd gathered around the crash in search of free fuel. 
The crash was in MoJo, several hours out­side the capital, Nairobi. Local newspapers have criticized the gov­ernment for poor safety. 
On Wednesday, a massive fire swept through a supermarket in downtown Nairobi, killing at least 25 people. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

m. governor delivers church message 
CHICAGO -In his first Sunday since being thrust into the chief executive's office, Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn delivered a church service message of service and humility, calling on residents to work together despite chal­lenges. 
'"We have to address each day with new eyes, no grudges,'" Quinn told the congrega­tion of thousands at Salem Baptist Church. "'We always have to learn every day."' 
Quinn did not specifically mention former Gov. Hod Blagojevich, who was booted from office Thursday and faces federal corruption charges. Blagojevich has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. 
Instead, Quinn talked vaguely of his plans for the state and mentioned some attributes he believes a governor should have. 
.Ptiui€rsriot for serond time in 2months 
PECOS, Texas -Law enforcement authori­ties in West Texas say they are trying to restore order at a privately run federal prison where a riot broke out, the second dis­turbance in as many months. 
Texas Department of Public Safety spokes­woman Tela Mange (TEE' -lab maynj) said the riot at the Reeves County Detention Center in Pecos was continuing Sunday, a day after it started. 

LocAL News 
Bill would allow DNA sample at arrest 
INDIANAPOLIS -Collecting DNA could become almost as common for police as col­lecting fingerprints under a bill making its way through the Indiana Senate. 
Senate Bill 24 would allow police to collect DNA from anyone arrested on a felony charge, rather than just those who are con­victed. 
Supporters say adding that DNA to state and federal databases could help solve crimes and potentially prevent them. 
Oustedgovernorintendsto gotohia1 

Blagojevich relies on father-and-son duo of defense attorneys to evade prison 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Now that he's been ousted from the governor's office, Rod Blagojevich is pinning his hopes of staying out of prison on a father-and-son duo of defense attorneys, one of whom grabbed the limelight at R&B superstar 
R. Kelly's sex tape trial. 
"These are two of the most flamboyant attorneys in town," DePaul University law professor Leonard Cavise says of the team of Sam Adam and his son, Samuel E. Adam. 
Cavise predicts fire­works if Blagojevich goes to trial on federal corrup­tion charges, including allegations that he tried to sell the Senate seat vacat­ed by President Barack Obama. 
Federal prosecutors are expected to obtain an indictment by April. Blagojevich was arrested by FBI agents in December and was booted from office Thursday when a state Senate impeachment trial ended with a 59-0 vote against him. 
Some are already ques­tioning the Adams' legal strategy -including their decision to let Blagojevich go on a whirlwind New "There will be an defense attorney Michael No one doubts that if the York media tour before his instruction -the jury will Petro. father-son legal duo ­impeachment trial ended, be told that for them to Blagojevich admitted to "the two Sams" -take fielding questions about find him guilty he has to MSNBC's Rachel Maddow the case to trial they'll the criminal case from have intended to commit that Genson had hoped he arrive with a full supply of Barbara Walters, Diane fraud," says defense attor­would keep his mouth fireworks to keep the jury Sawyer, Larry King and ney John M. Beal. shut and not grant such entertained. more. The ousted governor interviews. The elder Adam is a 
Blagojevich also gave an also gave a peek at anoth­Most Chicago lawyers serious legal scholar with impassioned closing argu­er defense strategy during agree with Genson that an offbeat sense of humor ment to senators before his media interviews, say­the interviews were a mis­and a flair for the dramat­they removed him from ing secretly recorded con­take. ic -some say the eccen­office, although he didn't versations that were cited "It's potentially disas­tric. He once dug his thick testify under oath. in the criminal complaint trous and makes him look fingers into the crop of 
His unwillingness to stay -including one of him like a clown," Cavise said. pure white hair sported by quiet cost him the help of calling the Senate seat a But the elder Adam said a client, a judge accused his former lead attorney, valuable thing not to be Thursday that he saw no of corruption, right after Edward M. Genson, who given away for free -problem. imploring jurors to "send announced he was with­were taken out of context. "When he goes to trial this good man back to his drawing from the case "Blagojevich is likely to he's going to have to wife of 50 years and 23 before the media blitz. say, as he has been say­answer questions, and the grandchildren." They 
Lawyers say Blagojevich ing, his words were taken only drawback would be if looked startled, but later tipped his hand about a out of context and politics he said something in the acquitted him . possible defense when he is a tough business that media that would go to People who know him said in his Senate plea frequently requires tough impeach his credibility at best warn against taking that he had no intent to talk and a lot of bluster to the trial and as far as I the elder Adams for a commit any crime. achieve your goals," says know he didn't," he said. lightweight. 


Outbreak due to inspection problems 
observed at one time, and none of outbreak was traced to another 
Associated Press 

these were picked up previously,'" Georgia peanut butter plant in 2007. 
BLAKELY, Ga. -A Georgia health said Michael Doyle, head of the food The October report showing only inspector who toured the peanut safety center at the University of minor violations seems to conflict butter plant now at the center of a Georgia. with conditions observed by at least 
national salmonella outbreak noted In October. state inspector Donna one former employee, though others only two minor violations in October. Adams noted only two violations in said they saw no problems. Less than three months later, feder­her report on the Peanut Corp. of Jonathan Prather, who said he al inspectors found roaches, mold, a America plant: tote containers with worked in the plant's peanut butter leaking roof and other sanitation butter residue and "'black buildup"' room until he and most of the problems. and '"mildew and possibly some plant's other employees were Food safety experts say the lapse static dust on ceiling of butter stor­recently laid off, said he sometimes is a major concern and shows state age room.'" saw old and soggy peanuts being inspectors are spread thin and No samples of the finished product used and other unsanitary condi­might need more training on how to were taken for salmonella testing tions. When he raised concerns spot unsanitary conditions. during the October inspection, about the plant's cleanliness, '"It's surprising to me that that despite a push by the state to check Prather said he was ignored by many major deficiencies were for the bacteria after a salmonella managers. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, February 2, 2009 
"Give that man some oxy­gen!" students chanted. 
Ga01e

GOPleaderdoubtssfunulusbillwillpass 
Bruce Springsteen and the E 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said Sunday the mas­sive stimulus bill backed by President Barack Obama and congressional Democrats could go down to defeat if it's not stripped of unnecessary spend­ing and focused more on hous­ing issues and tax cut. 
The Senate version of the bill, which topped out at nearly $900 billion, is headed to the floor for debate. The House bill totaled about $819 billion and earned no Republican votes, even though it easily passed the Democratic-controlled House. At some point lawmakers will need to compromise on the competing versions. 
McConnell and other Republicans suggested that the bill needed an overhaul because it doesn't pump enough into the private sector through tax cuts and allows Democrats to go on a spending spree unlikely to jolt the economy. The Republican leader also complained that Democrats had not been as bipartisan in writing the bill as Obama had said he wanted. 

"I think it may be time ... for the president to kind of get a hold of these Democrats in the Senate and the House, who have rather significant majorities, and shake them a little bit and say, 'Look, let's do this the right way,"' McConnell said. "I can't believe that the president isn't embarrassed about the products that have been produced so far." 
For his part, Obama said he is confident Republicans will come around to support the final ver­sion of the legislation. He and Vice President Joe Biden will meet with congressional leaders at the White House on Monday afternoon. 
The president repeated what his top aides and officials have been telling reporters in recent days, that the final package would be close to its objectives -to save or create 3 to 4 mil­lion jobs -and Republicans would be able to back it. 
"I am confident that by the time we have the fmal package on the floor that we are going to see substantial support, and people are going to see this is a serious effort. It has no ear­marks. We are going to be trim­ming out things that are not rei-· evant to putting people back to work right now," Obama said. 
However, he declined to pre­dict how many Senate Republicans might switch par­ties. Biden, a former senior member of the Senate before his election, similarly declined to offer predictions last week in an interview despite his personal phone calls for former col­leagues. 
"Look, the important thing is getting the thing passed," Obama told NBC's Matt Lauer during a live pre-Super Bowl interview. "And I've done extraordinary outreach, I think, to Republicans because they have some good ideas and I want to make sure those ideas are incorporated." 
Obama also that his adminis­tration would announce plans to spend the second $350 billion of a bank bailout after Congress deals with the separate econom­ic recovery plan. 
Under Obama's plan, strained state budgets would receive a cash infusion, projects for roads and other infrastructure would be funded, and "green jobs" in the energy sector would be cre­ated. In its centerpiece tax cut, single workers would gain $500 and couples $1,000, even if they don't earn enough to owe feder­al income taxes. 
Sen. Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Hepublican in the Senate, said he was seeing an erosion of support for the bill and suggest­ed that lawmakers should con­sider beginning anew. 
"When I say start from scratch, what I mean is that the basic approach of this bill, we believe, is wrong," Kyl said. 
Among the major changes Kyl said would be needed to gain Republican support in the Senate was the tax rebate for individuals and couples, which he criticized as going to too many people who didn't pay the tax to start with. He also criti­cized the bill for seeking to cre­ate nearly three dozen govern­ment programs and giving states far more money than they need. 
Sen. Dick Durbin, D.-Ill., argued that $1 out of every $3 in the bill goes to tax cuts and defended it as aimed at helping working families. While he con­tended that Democrats were "very open" to Republican pro­posals, he cited only what he said were calls for more money in job-creating public works projects, typically a Democratic priority. 
Sen. Jim DeMint, H-S.C., char­acterized the proposal as "a spending plan. It's not a stimu­lus plan. It's temporary, and it's wasteful." 
Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said the bill was designed to help people who have been damaged in the economic melt­down as well as stimulate the economy. 
"I never saw a tax cut fix a bridge. I never saw a tax cut give us more public transporta­tion. The fact is, we need a mix," Frank said. 
continued from page 1 

take on the Steelers' Ben Roethlisberger. 
Steelers fans were quickly sent on an emotional roller coaster when their team's first touchdown was overturned by a coach's challenge. Fans had to settle for a field goal instead, and they were not too happy. 
"I wish we started off with a bigger lead," senior Emily Toates said. "It would have made the rest of the game a little less unnerving." 
The second quarter had Pittsburgh fans jumping up and down when linebacker James Harrison intercepted a pass at the zero yard line for a 100 yard return for a touch­down with only 18 seconds left on the dock. 
Street Band performed the halftime show, but many stu­dents had to miss it to catch up on homework. 
"''m happy the Steelers are winning," senior Jeff Tisak said. "But it's sad that every­one had to grab homework at halftime." 
When the second half began, however, students put aside their books for another round of excitement. The third quarter was nothing more than a slight confidence boost for the Steelers, but during the fourth quarter students were given a nail-biting finale. 
"The Cardinals put up a good fight," Dzurik said. "But I think the Steelers deserved to win." 
Contact Christine Fagan at cfagan2@nd.edu 


Announcing the Year 2009 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino tiunily. the Italian Snodies Program is pleased to announce the year 2009 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000. and will not nonnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will nonnally be in llalian: will involve the study of Italian language. literature. and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs tor foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome. Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbina, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are enco11raged to consult the materia!. on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree progmm at Notre Dame:  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background. interests. and long-tenn goals:  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5 l  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources of funding (being sought or confirmed) tor the same project  

(i.e. Office oflnternational Studies, Nanovic Institute. etc.) 
Application Deadline: Friday, March 6, 200'.1 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Prol(ram in Italian Studies 343 O'ShaughnesS)' Hall University of Notre Dame 
Spedalizing in i)eautitul Color 

$10 
Haircuts 1/2 Off all color 
(Reg. $35 -$55) (Reg. $47-$80) 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Monday, February 2, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 8,000.86 -148.15 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 809 96 2,260 1,069,707,251 


AMEX''~i!IJ1l1111••llll11111~1111 
NASDAQ · 1 476.42 -31.42 

NYSE.•vitliil:lli!Jr[41111JI~:ii·rillliiB111~111Jll~llltltlli~·
S&P 500 825.88 -19.26 
NIKKEI (TokioJ.....ll!lllti/IIII!.Jilllillitil;ltili! 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,149.64 -40.47 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -2.03 -1.72 82.83 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -2.74 -0.26 9.24 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) -2.95 -0.20 6;58 CITIGROUP INC (C) -8.97 -0.35 3.55 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +5.99 +0.159 2.815 13-WEEK BILL +22.22 +0.040 0.220 30-YEAR BOND +3.64 +0.125 3.559 5-YEAR NOTE +7.67 +0.130 1.810 

Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.24 41.68 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +21.90 928.40 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +2.55 82.95 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.8600 EURO 0.7803 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2282 BRITISH POUND 0.6878 
IN BRIEF 

No answer at Davos global forum 
OAVOS. Switzerland -Mired in indecision and uncertainty, the world's foremost gather­ing of the best and brightest in government and business failed to come up with any new plan to stem, much less reverse, the global financial meltdown. 
The five-day World Economic Forum in this Swiss alpine resort wrapped up Sunday in the same atmosphere of doom and gloom that it began, with a realization that the depth of the crisis is still unknown and the solution remains elusive. 
"Everybody's lost in Davos," said Kishore Mahbubani, dean of the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore. 
"No one seems to have a clear understand­

• ing of how big this crisis is and what we need to do to get out of it." he told AP. "My own view is that you really need to do a fundamen­tal reexamination of the whole global system to see what went wrong, and nobody here is yet ready to ask these kinds of fund.amental questions in Davos." 
Housing bust hits NC farm town 
WEST JEFFERSON. N.C. -When this Appalachian town's light-switch plant went dark. fortunes dimmed for Jeff and Amanda Ruegsegger, and hundreds of their neighbors. 
No mo~e Sunday lunches at the Mexican restaurant between morning and evening church: they now pack sandwiches. No mote saving for retirement: they tapped Jeff's 401 (k) to pay down a home-equity line of credit. The health insurance is gone, too, replaced by prayers that the Ruegsegger's and their two teenage children stay healthy. 
"There's a feeling of worthlessness," said Jeff. a former tool-and-die maker. A severance package is helping, but the lack of jobs could · force the family to move. 
In small towns like West Jefferson across the country, factories and families had thrived on the back of the housing boom. Now, employers are fighting for survival and laid-off workers are conserving cash. 


Banks sought foreign workers 
AP investigation reveals visas sought by banks increased by one-third despite layoffs 
Associated PresS 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­Major U.'S. banks sought government permission to bring thousands of foreign workers into the country for high-paying jobs even as the system was melting down last year and Americans were getting laid off, accord­ing to an Associated Press review of visa applications. 
The dozen banks now receiving the biggest rescue packages, totaling more than $150 billion, requested visas for more than 21.800 foreign workers over the past six years for positions that ineluded senior vice presi­dents, corporate lawyers, junior investment analysts and human resources spe­cialists. The average annual salary for those jobs was $90,721, nearly twice the median income for all American households. 
As the economic collapse worsened last year -with huge numbers of bank employees laid off-the numbers of visas sought by the dozen banks in AP's analysis increased by nearly one-third, from 3,258 in the 2007 budget year to 4,163 in fiscal 2008. 

The AP reviewed visa applications the banks flied with the Labor Department under the H -1 B visa pro­gram, which allows tempo­unknown. lyzed the wage data and jobs, through intermediary rary employment of foreign Foreigners are attractive started the Programmers companies known as "body workers in specialized-skill hires because companies Guild, an advoeaey group shops." Such businesses are and advanced-degree posi­have found ways to pay them that opposes the H-18 sys­the top recipients of the H­tions. Such visas are most less than American workers. tern. lB visas. often associated with high­Companies are required to David Huber of Chicago is The use of visa workers by tech workers. pay foreign workers a pre-a computer netWorking engi­ailing banks angers Sen. 
It is unclear how many for­vailing wage based on the, neer who has testified to Chuck Grassley of Iowa, the eign workers the banks actu­job's description. But they Congress about losing out on senior Republican on the ally hired; the government can use the lower end of a 2002 job with the former Senate Finance Committee. does not release those government wage scales Bank One Corp. He learned "In this time of very, very details. The actual number is even for highly skilled work-later the bank applied to hire high unemployment ... and likely a fraction of the 21,800 ers; hire younger foreigners dozens of foreign visa hold­considering the help these foreign workers the banks with lower salary demands; ers for work he said he was banks are getting from the sought to hire because the and hire foreigners with qualified to do. taxpayers, they're playing government only grants higher levels of education or "American citizenship is the American taxpayer for a 85,000 such visas eaeh year advanced degrees for jobs being undermined working sucker," Grassley said in a among all U.S. employers. for which similarly educated in our own country," Huber telephone interview with AP. 
During the last three American workers would be said in an AP interview. Grassley, with Sen. months of 2008, the largest considered overqualified. Beyond seeking approval Richard Durbin, D-Ill., is banks that received taxpayer "The system provides you for visas from the govern­pushing for legislation to loans announced more than perfectly legal mechanisms ment, banks that accepted make employers recruit 100,000 layoffs. The number to underpay the workers,'' federal bailout money also American workers first, of foreign workers included said John Miano of Summit, enlisted uncounted foreign along with other changes to among those laid off is N.J., a lawyer who has ana-workers, often in technology the visa program. 

Americans spendingless, savingmore 
Like a teeter-totter, when the sav­card payments to sustain her buying
Associated Press 

ings rate rises. spending falls. The spree for her and her family, which 
WASHINGTON -Americans are latter accounts for about 70 percent includes her husband and two chil­hunkering down and saving more. of economic activity. When con­dren. For a recession-battered economy, it sumers refuse to spend, companies But after being laid off 21!2 years couldn't be happening at a worse cut back, layoffs rise, people pinch ago from her job as an accountant, time. pennies even more and the reces­she landed another accounting job 
Economists call it the "paradox of sion deepens. that cut her salary from $60,009 to thrift." What's good for individuals The downward spiral has ham­$40,000. It was impossible to meet -spending less. saving more -is mered the retail and manufacturing minimum payments on her card bal­bad for the economy when everyone industries. For years, stores enjoyed ances. does it. boom times as shoppers splurged on Now, the Cases are on a strict 
On Friday, the government report­TVs, fancy kitchen decor and budget. They take "staycations," ed Americans' savings rate, as a clothes. Suddenly, frugality is .in grow their own vegetables, buy only percentage of after-tax incomes, style. used ears and pre-pay cell phones. rose to 2.9 percent in the last three Grace Case, 38, of Syracuse, N.Y., Case hasn't used a credit card in months of 2008. That's up sharply is a self-described recovering eredi­two years. And she's saving more. from 1.2 percent in the third quar­taholie. For 13 years, she charged it "It's really a liberating feeling," ter and less than 1 percent a year all -cars, clothes, repairs, vaca­she said. "If you want something. ago. tions. She'd make only the minimum you have to have the money for it." 
r---------------~-----~--------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, February 2, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, None Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Karie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Merz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAI'OR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd,ed~ 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
' · SAINT MARY'S DESK · smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 


OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe 
University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscirution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Maooging Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directedto Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dming aam :.~nd vaCI.lion pcrKxh. A subscription ro 11K Observer i11 $100 for one j!catk:mic year; $55 for onesc::mt$t<:r. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 02" South Dining HaU Send address corrections to: 
Nom: DmK, IN 46556-0779 l · ·. · The 0bicrvtr 
Periodical postage paid a£ Notri! Dam< P.O. Be«. 179 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
NoueDamt,lN 46556..0779 
The Observer is a member ofthe As!ioci:ued P~. All rcproducilon right!i arc reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Dan Murphy Becky Hogan Matt Gotimer 
Graphics Chris Masoud Andrea Archer Scene Viewpoint Analise Lipari Lianna Brauweiler 


Energy security principles 
Austria and Germany hate nuclear energy. They hate it. What radiation did not reach them during the Chernobyl incident was supplemented by the radiation of bad PR that swept through eastern Western Europe. Austria's two exist­ing power plants have never been put to use due to the overwhelming sentiment against their installment into the grid in a 1978 referendum, almost a full decade before Chernobyl. The opposition is deeply rooted. 
And yet, thanks to the Russian giant natural gas supplier Gazprom, in the last few weeks nuclear power has been one of the main topics of dis­cussion in every Austrian newspaper, blog, television news, university com­mon space, coffee shop, etc. 
The aftermath of the early January scare from Gazprom's holding hostage large amounts of natural gas flow not only to the Ukraine, but also to Europe is still resonating strongly. For two weeks, 90 percent of Gazprom 's natural gas normally flowing to Austria was cut off, and many other European countries received none from the supplier. 
Such a drastic cutoff reawakened, yet again, Austrians and other Europeans.to th'tlir frailty in energy sustainability matters. The economy and lifestyles of this western, wealthy, unquestionably industrialized country with a standard of living that ranks in the top 15 in the world is completely reliant on a country with whose poli­tics it disagrees. Sound familiar? 
The cutoff, much like the high oil prices of last summer here in America, brought up again the 

Jackie Mirandola­Mullen 
Guest Columnist 

increasingly important topic of energy security. How can a "powerful" nation be brought to its knees by one closed pipeline'? By the rising pric8s of one single commodity'? That is not securi­ty, under any circumstances. 
But with the much-needed concept of "Energy Seeurity" comes other dan­gers. Secure, but at what price? Most Austrians hold the opposition of nudear energy as one of their corn beliefs. Removing myself momentarily from the argument for or against nuclear power, the Austrians them­selves believn that it would spell cer­tain dangers for their nation if they were to allow such plants to proceed. Their eountry holds it as derogatory to the environment, present and future, to proceed with nuelear ener­gy. 
When dons Energy Security hamper' environmental protection? Often the two are interlinked, can play off each other and promote one another simul­taneously. Henewable energy develop­ment not only helps our energy secu­rity, but also has the potential to improve air quality, provide long-term health benefits, lessen carbon dioxide emissions and minimize invasive and environmentally detrimental mining techniques. 
However, Energy Security often becomes a force that hampers envi­ronmental goals. Austrians who do not choose to build nuclear power plants have they the option. Desperate needs for Energy Security force them into comprising their values. Plans for dams and hydro-power plants are popping up a.Jlq_~ver Europr,·in places once valued for their relatively untouched ecosystems. 
We in America are all too familiar with such compromises. In the name of Energy Security, it's okay to move mountains, displace elk, irretrieyably ruin oceanic ecosystems or deplete already strained soil. Granted, the last administration often tried to switch heaven for hell in the name of securi­ty, insisting it was a good idea, but the bipartisan rush to wean off of foreign oil and gas runs the risk of depleting the lasting health of our country and people, a resource that is nonrenew­able. 
We must approach the concept of Energy Security while keeping in mind what we may be sacrificing for it. Drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf would result in a cumulative 1.6 per­cent greater domestic crude oil pro­duction by the year 2030, hardly enough to justify the permanent dam­age to the ocean ecosystem that would ensue -not to mention the billions to fund the drilling. And yet, as far as legislation suggestions go, it has been at the top of the solution list as of late. 
In a time when we are pressed for money, struggling for solutions to energy problems and slowly disengag­ing ourselves from foreign entangle­ments, it is important to remember the long-term effects of our actions. Unlik~ our politics, we cannot instan­taneously -or often, ever-reverse the damage we inflict upon the envi­ronment. Energy Security can mean a co9perative relationship between environmental and energy problems, but hastily striving towards security cuts corners that our earth can't afford not to acknowledge. Slowly shifting our dependence and supple­menting development of renewables with positive diplomatic relations is the only way to attain lasting Energy Security, whether in Austria, America or even the oil powers themselves. 
Jackie Mirando/a Mulle/J. i!i aju.nior l!istory and German major who is cur­rently studying abroad in lnnsbruck, Austria. She tried to save energy by hibernating her computer while writ­ing this article, but it didn't work so well. She can be reached at jmiran­do@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

We -won't ... 
In response to Bob Kessler's Jan. 30 letter "We are...," I need to voice my discontent. While I have noticed that we are often times told that we are special and whatnot, by chanting "We are ND," I do not see how this can possibly be taken as arrogance. The Northwestern chant is arrogant, true, but through chanting who we are, who we represent, we are not in any way or form condescending those who have beaten us. I, for one, am saying who I am with pride, saying they have not beaten down the spirit that embodies the campus. 
I believe that this cheer is much better than saying words such as "Suck it, (insert lesser school's title)," yet you do not mention anything towards this. You probably say that it is in the sport of athleticism, of college events, to try to irritate the other team so as to give us the upper hand. Yet I guaran­tee that hearing a student body insulting the entire University due to a simple sporting event creates more hatred than by chanting "We are ND" at the end of a game. At the USC game, the marching band and the fans were obviously jeered at, booed and were the victims of numerous insults, chants and gestures. Yet what was more irritating was when the Trojan fans, at the end of the game, began chanting that their next opponents sucked, that they didn't stand a chance. May we remind them of the Oregon State game, thereby proving anything is possible. 
Another way to be condescending to a college happened at our very stadium by Syracuse when they won. They stood in the center of the marching band, jeering at our family as we sang our Alma Mater. To me, that is the most disgusting dis­play of arrogance in the face of an opponent. Our chant ­and there are many who agree with me -is to unite the family once we have lost. It is to remind us that there are things that will happen, and we must take them in stride. No, we cannot win everything, we are guaranteed to lose other events, but it is to remind ourselves and the opposing team that we are a family. They may have won the game, but "We are ND!" 
Matt Roe freshman Morrissey Manor Feb. I 

QUOTE OF THE DAY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ability may get you to the top, 


"You get the best out o.fothers when 
but it takes character 

you give the best ofyourself"
to keep you there. " 
Harry Firestone 
John Wooden 
author
basketball coach 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, February 2, 2009 page 9 
Tomorrow's citizens will pay 
for today's spending 
Last November, voters elected Barack Obama as president, decisively repudi­ating the failed policies of the Bush administration and ushering in an era of change and reform. Or at least that's what they thought they were doing. Less Ben Linskey than a month into Obama's presidency, Guest it's becoming alarm­Columnist ingly clear that many of the most misguided policies of the Bush years are here to stay. Thousands of Americans, suffering the effects of a deepening recession, are hopeful that the new administration will adopt a new course and lead our nation out of the present economic crisis. President Obama, however, seems determined to follow in the footsteps of his predeces­sor. 
On Feb. 13 oflast year, George W. Bush signed the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008, intended to ward off a looming recession; predictably, the bill accom­plished little more than tacking $152 billion onto the federal deficit. Less than a year later, faced with a worsen­ing economic outlook, President Obama has somehow convinced himself and his political allies that the most prudent course of action is to imitate the Bush administration's policies on a grossly magnified scale, this time lobbing over $800 billion at the problem. The most immediate difficulty with this "stimu­lus" plan is that it simply won't work. In the 1930s, Franklin Delano Roosevelt oversaw the creation of thousands of new agencies and government jobs, but no amount of federal prodigality could lift the United States out of the Great Depression. In a recent analysis of Depression-era economic programs posted on the Cato Institute website, Regulation magazine editor Thomas Firey concluded that "the New Deal did little as an economic stimulus." There is no reason to believe that the Obama administration's "new New Deal" will be any more effective. It is high time we recognize the sheer futility of govern­ment attempts to manipulate the econo­my. The greatest danger in this latest stimulus program, though, lies not in its ineffectiveness, but in the costs it will impose on future generations. 
The national debt presently stands at over $10.5 trillion-over $30,000 per 
U.S. citizen. The Bush and Obama stim­ulus bills, combined with the recent wave of bailouts for failing, inefficient corporations, bear a combined price tag well in excess of $1 trillion . These numbers are almost too large to fully comprehend, but the federal debt is not an abstract tally; it is a series of enor­mous financial obligations to a variety of foreign governments and private citi­zens, all of whom collect interest on their investments each year. Last year alone, the federal government paid out a whopping $412 billion to its creditors. The Congressional Budget Office recently calculated that the stimulus package heralded by the Obama admin­istration will entail an additional $347 billion in interest payments over the next decade. 

Deficit spending imposes a steadily growing burden on taxpayers. The gov­ernment can account for its debt in only two ways. It can raise taxes, preying on the productivity of U.S. citizens, or it can simply print more money, leading to the hidden, insidious phenomenon of inflation. The latter option is more prevalent, as the disastrous conse­quences of inflation are not immediate­ly apparent. (Incidentally, proponents of social justice who support government spending programs would do well to remember that the costs of inflation are distributed unevenly and often do the most harm to the poor.) Politicians seize on the opportunity to impose long-term costs in return for the illusion of short­term benefits. 
The ultimate, and most pernicious, consequences of reckless spending are seldom discussed. It is future genera­tions, not current taxpayers, who will bear the brunt of the federal debt, and politicians in Washington have no qualms about burdening U.S. citizens not yet born with trillions of dollars of obligations in return for immediate political gain. The great tragedy of the recent wave of stimulus bills and feder­al bailouts is that those who will be most affected by these policies do not even get a vote. The men and women who will inherit the national debt didn't elect George Bush, Barack Obama or 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Why is Notre Da111e involved in the ar111s trade? 

Last semester, we delivered a letter to Father John Jenkins and the representatives of the Career Center ask­ing them to clarify our University's position on what com­panies we allow on our campus to recruit our students. More than a month later, Fr. Jenkins took the step to meet with us to discuss our concerns. In his office, he listened to us and asked us fair questions. Overall, while we may not have reached the same conclusions about who should or should not be endorsed by the University, Fr. Jenkins left us with an understanding that his administration would take the issue seriously. 
At last week's Winter Career Expo, Raytheon again sought to recruit Notre Dame students. We are distressed to find that, as of yet, no action has been taken by either our University's administration or the Career Center to clarify explicitly and publicly the standards to which we hold participants in the career fairs. Despite the efforts of students in the past three consecutive years, the University has yet to publicly and decisively respond to the critique that Raytheon represents a clear and very serious disre­gard for the stated mission to our University. 
The mission statement of the University of Notre Dame specifically calls our community to develop a "disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many." Such a mission hopes to make our University a place where "learning becomes service to justice." These admirable goals are put into practice in many ways. For example, more than 80 per­cent of the student body will be involved in some sort of service or community work in their time at Notre Dame. Our commitment to justice is real at Notre Dame because it is rooted in our mission. 
But when students begin to think about where they can take their interest for justice and service that they learned here at Notre Dame, they are too often presented with a contradictory picture. Organizations like Raytheon serve a narrow conviction that place national self-interest and vio­lent military power above the calling -found in our own mission statement-of "human solidarity and concern for the common good." They inherently contradict what we as a university community have placed as our true mission. 
Currently Raytheon is the world's fifth-largest weapons manufacturer. In 2008, Raytheon's value boasted to $24.7 
billion after an annual increase of almost $5 billion. As MSNBC Business wrote recently: "Like other defense com­panies, Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon's profits have been boosted in recent years by record defense spending." That is, as the United States and its allies drop more bombs on places like Iraq, Afghanistan and Gaza, Raytheon's profits climb steadily. For Raytheon, the more war and insecurity the better. As profits for Raytheon soar, the people who live where Raytheon's products finally land see only death, destruction and a broken future. 
The arms trade is an undeniably profitable business for Raytheon. But in Aug. 2006, to protest Raytheon's involve­ment in providing the cluster bombs and missiles used in the campaign against the people of Lebanon, nine men from Derry, Northern Ireland occupied a Raytheon office and were detained for trespassing. On June 11, 2008 a jury released the entire group in a unanimous verdict. Eamonn McCann, one of the men detained, stated: "We believe that one day the world will look back on the arms trade as we look back today on the slave trade and won­der how it came about that such evil could abound in respectable society." 
We call on the Career Center and the University Administration to examine more closely who we allow onto our campus to recruit our students. We ask that each company and organization, regardless of their national reputation or alumni connection, be judged for their respect and adherence to our University's mission state­ment. We call on the Administration and the Career Center to make an honest, public statement and clearly define the position of our University on the presence of Raytheon at our University. 
Michael Angulo 
sent or 

off campus Kristi Hass junior abroad Alicia Quiros 
JUfl!Or 
off campus 
Feb. 1 

any member of the U.S. Congress. The federal government's longstanding poli­cy of burdening the unborn with debt is little more than outright theft, closer to mob rule than democracy. 
Sadly, the very nature of government and electoral politics encourages politi­cians to exploit the powerless for the sake of enriching present majorities. The good news is that there is still time for our nation to escape from the end­less spiral of spending, bailouts and debt. But to do so, Americans must reject the ineffective and immoral poli­cies offered by Democrats and Republicans in Washington. Voters com­prise the greatest -perhaps the only -check on such abuses of federal power. George W. Bush, Barack Obama and their colleagues in Congress have demonstrated that neither the left nor the right can be trusted to administer the powers of government responsibly. Future generations will hold us accountable for the policies we endorse today. It's time for Americans to reject unrestrained federal spending and acknowledge the failure of the major parties to produce responsible, moral governance. 
Ben Linskey, a sophomore majoring in political science and philosophy, is co­president ofthe College Libertarians. He can be contacted at blinskey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Right to Life discussion 
To the students, faculty and staff of Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross: 
On Monday, Feb. 2, The Observer will feature a newspaper advertisement enti­tled, "We Know Better Now." This adver­tisement is published by the Human Life Alliance, a non-profit pro-life organiza­tion based in Minneapolis, Minnesota that seeks to promote the dignity of human life at all of its stages and to encourage the practice of the virtue of chastity in everyday life. The running of this insert may please some, offend oth­ers and, perhaps, go unnoticed or unat­tended to by others. Although Notre Dame Right to Life has not been involved officially in the project of featuring this advertisement in The Observer, we would like to encourage you to read, or at least glance through it. 
Being that Notre Dame is a Catholic institution of intellectual exchange and growth, on behalf of Notre Dame Right to Life, I would like to take this opportunity to invite the students, faculty and staff of Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross to partake in the ongoing dialogue regard­ing the issues addressed in the advertise­ment. To this point, Right to Life will be hosting a bi-partisan discussion on the issues addressed in the advertisement. This event will take place on Tuesday, Feb. 10 at 7:30PM in the Coleman-Morse Student Center. (Mark your calendars ­food will be served!) 
Notre Dame Right to Life hopes that you will read the Human Life Alliance advertisement and that you will join us for this discussion! 
MaryK. Daly President, Notre Dame Right to Life Jan. 30 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Monday, February 2, 2009 
With Oscar season right around the corner, one is reminded of all the great films that have garnered the prestigious Academy Award for Best Picture in the past. Epic works of film-making such Mark Witte as "The Lord 
of the Rings: Assistant Return of the Scene Editor King," older, classic favorites such as "The Sound of Music" or films that. in my opinion, really didn't deserve to win anything, like the abominable. box-office spectacle "Titanic." 
But Oscar season also reminds us of why we love movies, especial­ly those movies which never win awards, and really shouldn't. Yet some of those flicks are our per­sonal favorites. I can think of one that sticks out most for me. 
When I turned 14, a friend of mine gave me as a present the Coen brothers' cult hit, "The Big Lebowski." As a teenager some­what sheltered from R-rated movies by overprotective parents, the fact that I was watching some­thing prohibited had me grinning before the movie even started. And when it did, I laughed nearly the entire 117 minutes. 
Yet at the time, my being humored was at best a product of the film's unique, bawdy plot, its eccentric characters. goofy ruses and its 200-plus f-bombs (though some claim the number to be clos­er to 398). In fact, it would be four years-during my freshman com­position class -before I seriously cogitated on what made the film so entertaining. 
The film's premise starts otl' sim­ply. Jeff "The Dude" Lebowski (Jeff Bridges) is mistaken by a pair of thugs for the extremely wealthy and crippled philanthropist Jeffrey Lebowski (David Huddleston). These thugs knock the Dude around before proceeding to uri­nate on his favorite rug, a rug that according to the Dude's volatile bowling buddy Walter Sobchak (John Goodman), "really tied the room together." 
The Dude then sets out to seek recompense for his damaged upholstery, getting himself stuck in a complicated web of ransom­seeking Nihilists, porn kings, play­boy wives. raging feminists and inept private detectives along the way. 
But the film is more than its far­cical, bumbling plot portends it to be. 
My freshman year composition class focused on representations of gender, class and race in media. In order to demonstrate contempo­rary critiques of the sub jed, the instructor chose to screen "The Big Lebowksi" as an example, and that's when I began to decipher what the Conn Brothers were nml­ly doing with their lilm. 
"The Big Lebowski" provides maswline (and feminine) role models that no one would willingly want to associate with. Most of these representations are done through extremes. 
The Dude's hardly potty-trained antagonists are completely bone­headed, mistaking the debt of a millionaire philanthropist's playboy wife to be associated with the unemployed, Welfare-dependent Dude. 
The Nihilists, who later pretend to kidnap the philanthropist's wife and then extract ransom from the Dude, turn out to be spineless, cowardly bullies when confronted by Walter in a showdown outside the bowling alley. 
Contrasting their representation is that of' Walter himself. a r.harar.­ter negatively ampcd and exuding in testosterone. A Vietnam veteran with an exceptionally short temper, Walter comically blunders around the Dude's situation throughout the film, constantly making matters worse for the Dude by attempting to tix them with violence and war tactics. At one point. while interro­gating a teenager who stole and crashp,d the Dude's car, WaJtp,r becomp,s fed up with the boy's refusal to answer any questions and takes a crowbar to what he believes is the boy's brand new r.ar. The car actually belongs to a neighbor, who comes out hooting and hollering and takes a baseball bat to the Dude's vehicle, bashing its windshield. 
In between these p,xtremes of cowardice and belligerence, but still in the negative realm of mas­culinity, fall the Dude and his buddy Donny's powerless repre­sentations. 
The Dude, because of his pas­sivism, laziness, alcoholism and even hazed stupidity, lacks the power to rationally communicate or combat injustice and oppres­sion. His inability to solve his own problems, depicted through his constant manipulation by and abuse from other characters, forces him to turn to Walter lor help. 

In the film's final showdown, the Nihilists set fire to the Dude's car, destroying it. The car then becomes a metaphor for the Dude's impuissance. Throughout the story it is shot, crashed, stolen, used as a urinal, crashed again, assaulted with a bat and finally burned. Like the car, the Dude has no control over the events happen­ing to or around him. 
Donny is even more powerless, despite being the best bowler of the bunch. Every time he speaks, Walter immediately contradicts him or to yells at him to "Shut up!" 
By providing extreme masculine representations associated with defeat and failure, "The Big Lebowski" encourages its viewers to eome up with their own concep­tion of \llasculinity somewhere between those extremes, and with­out the help of a traditionally rep­resented hero. 
If you look for a literal hero with­in the film, you will not lind one, I hope. Instead, the film works to promote a dill"erent type of viewr ing, a viewing where individuals create and construct their own conception of gender rather than relying on what they see to form their masculine role models. 
The film contains another char­acter extreme, the story's out-of­place narrator. Dressed in full r.ow­boy garb, what the Old West would consider the height of manliness and masculinity-in other words, a perfect extreme -the narrator first introduces the Dude by posing a question: "Sometimes there's a man. I won't say a hero, 'cause, what's a hero?" 
While the narrator may not know the answer to his question, neither may we, and that's some­thing to think and laugh about. 
For me, "The Big Lebowski" will always have a special place in my heart. Since first watching it eight years ago, I have shown it to numerous friends and family. And whether or not they've understood the film's gender critique, we've shared laughter at the Dude's expense nonetheless. 
But hey, at least the guy is housebroken. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd. edu 

By LIZ HARTER 
Scene Writer 
When the four Bielski brothers that abound in "Defiance," Bella then escaped from the Nazis in Belarus in tells him she needs his protection while 1941, it's unlikely that any of them ever ungracefully moving his hand to her thought the subsequent four years of breast. their lives would be made into a major The viewer is seemingly supposed to motion picture 68 years later. But that's assume that this gesture implies the exactly what "Defiance" is-only prob-two are in love or a relationship, or that !em is, it's just a bad major motion pic-he is her "forest husband." The "forest ture. husband" concept pops up repeatedly 
Looking at trailers for the movie, one throughout the film, as those living in would think they were going to see an the forest community substitute a "for­action-adventure movie complete with est relationship" for what they left Daniel Craig (a.k.a. the behind in the city. current James Bond) as Ifyou can get past the While it is obvious with-Tuvia Bielski, blowing in the first five minutes stuff up, shooting peo-fact that Craig is one that Craig and Schreiber pie, dodging bombs and ofthe most Aryan are the stars of the bullets from the Nazis looking Jews in film movie, Bell holds his own and grittily leading a alongside the two with a group of exiled Jews in a history, you won't be secondary plot of finding foreign forest. disappointed. love in the Bielski camp. 
. Apparently, the viewer He meets and marries is supposed to not ' · · 'Chay·a · Dziencielsky. remember that a blond-haired, blue-played by the largely unknown Mia eyed actor is playing someone who's Wasikowska. Jewish. The filmmakers tried to keep Bell plays the levelheaded brother Craig's hair filled with dirt for most of who keeps the hotheaded Craig and "Defiance" -which makes sense, as Schreiber in line. Other than getting the film is set in a forest -but it's clear married, and preventing the two main that he remains a blond for unknown characters from killing each other, he reasons. Plus, there's no covering up isn't given much to do. those electric blues. Don't feel bad for Bell, though. At 
If you can get past the fact that Craig least he has more of a role than is probably one of the most Aryan look-MacKay, whose character goes mute ing Jews in film history, you won't be after seeing the atrocity of his parents' disappointed. Viewers can watch Tuvia murder by the Nazis. He has exactly stoically face whatever is thrown his one line in the entire film. way with his brothers Zus (Liev Granted, when your only previous Schreiber). Asael (Jamie ------------acting experience Bell, "Billy Elliott") and While "Defiance" tries to peaked with playing Aaron (George MacKay, do the Bielski history one of the lost boys
"Peter Pan"). in "Peter Pan," audi-The film follows the tri-justice, any film about ences shouldn't 
als facing the Bielski the Holocaust will expect too much. brothers as they work to undoubtedly be However, the actor keep their camp of Jews does an admirable hidden from the ensuing compared to the titans job of simultaneously 
political turmoil. The that came before it, looking horrified, camp needs protection, particularly "Schindler's miserable and cold. food, shelter and religion, List" and "The Pianist., While "Defiance" 
and the Bielskis manage tries to do the Bielski to provide it all, giving the history justice. any Jews a sense of community and family. film about the Holocaust will undoubt-
While Craig does well with what the edly be compared to the titans that script gives him, Schreiber deserves the came before it, particularly "Schindler's most praise for managing at least one List" and "The Pianist." laugh-free take during one of the film's While it touches on the same subjects more absurd scenes. as those films, "Defiance" fails to pack 
At one point, his girlfriend, Bella -the same emotional punch of those who largely disappears after this scene, movies. It introduces too many minor only to reappear at a later point -is characters that somehow prove to be discussing "protection" with him. She important, no matter how small their wants to know why the women don't roles. 
The film also clocks in at an unnecessary 137 minutes. The humor is awkward, and
Defiance 


the relationships aren't developed enough to be maintained throughout the
Directed by: Edward Zwick 
running time. 

Starring : Daniel Craig, Liev 
Had the director, Edward Zwick ("Blood Diamond"), cut

Schreiber and Jamie Bell 
out half of the characters and an extraneous 30 minutes, "Defiance" would have been far more watchable. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 


The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin, The Who, Neil Young, Bob Dylan, The Clash, The Ramones, Bruce Springsteen. 
Can the list go on and, more importantly, do we deserve to let it? Would adding James DuBray Nirvana to that list 
be like blaspheming Scene Writer Mary, the M.O.G.? Does anyone really love rock and roll anymore? Why would they? 
It's been said there exists a rock and roll canon. There are a select few artists who only Noel Gallagher, moron that he is, would dare to cross. Sure, they've all had their missteps. Neil Young writes a terrible album about every five years. Dylan could­n't escape the 1980s. Mick Jagger refuses to put his Megalodon away, and Springsteen has tried to make the same record about seven too many times. 
Yet, these artists have all blown the minds and broke the hearts of baby boomers. Not just the cats, too. From hedge fund managers to Neomarxists, everyone sings along to "Under My Thumb." Their kids have benefited from growing up to melodic acoustic numbers and avant-garde crashes. These story­tellers have bashed exes, while also swooning at first sights. 
Sure, tons of songs have been misinter­preted, bastardized and made cliche. "Born In The U.S.A." is played on the Fourth, while half of "Sgt. Pepper" is used in cell phone commercials. Despite these problems, traditions have grown as 25 year-olds and their mothers cry simultane­ously when "In My Life" adorns first dances. Enough evidence -a canon exists, and it means something. 
Now to the bloody point: Do the children of baby boomers have, or even deserve, a spot at the table? One thing is certain: there will never be another consensus top dog. For one, rock and roll exists on the idea of community: the feeling that there is something about both being young, and having a sense of alienation. Music pro­vides an oasis, a place to exist oul<;ide of mainstream society. 
The idea is still inside every young per­son. The fairytales drugged us (Thank you, Conor Oberst). There is no Prince Charming or glass slipper. 
Yet, this sort of introspection seems rare in today's society. In a world based so much on corporate-driven definitions of success, rock and roll probably doesn't have a place. Drugs don't open the mind; 
page 11 

they get you a semester at home. Money and speed rule all. For our generation, the best job is the one that makes the most money. Forget about relationships, friends, or discovering something about yourself. Put on your tie, check today's calendar on your Blackberry, and network, network, network. Today's Woodstock would be full of people exchanging Linkedln accounts. 
Let's deviate from the negativity for a second. The 1980s gave some contribu­tions to the list, although they were few and far between. Springsteen and Petty made some great albums, while Billy Joel established himself as a bigger joke than Neil Diamond. Yet, ltE.M. created some­thing that would become alt-rock-what­ever that means anymore. The '90s used a suicide and a surge of anger to produce grunge, a rock spin-off that today is even funnier than it is off-putting. Can you imagine how Cobain would feel at an Ever last show? Apologetic, I'm sure. 
Flash to today, and the 1990s seem like more of a breeding ground than anything else. Radiohead belongs in the conversa­tion for a couple reasons. One, tl1ey have followed in the tradition of the greats by never settling. When "OK Computer" was crowned king, Thorn Yorke and the boys. responded by kicking out the guitars. When politics suddenly beeame a popular song topic, Radiohead made "In Rainbows," one of their more apolitical records to date, and relea<;ed it for, well, whatever you wanted to pay. 
Just like the children of the '90s discov­ered "Exile" over a double Whiskey Coke, so will some of the children of the future find "Kid A" and "Yankee," and maybe even 'The College Dropout." Yet, they probably will come at these records much more earnestly than their parent.<; rame to their own parents' vinyl. 
Consensus may be out of the picture, but great musicians aren't. Radiohead, Wilco, Kanye West. That's what I think we've got so far. Contenders exist all over the board, including The Decemberists, My Morning Jacket, lil Wayne and The White Stripes. Yet these artists have a long, long way to go. 
Let's just hope that Jack Johnson and Coldplay eventually get the Neil Diamond treatment. That's how we'II know they "getit." 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact James DuBray at jdubray@nd. edu 

I courtesy of skullcull.wordpress.com Thorn Yorke, second from left, and the men of Radiohead have established themselves as rightful additions to the canon of rock and roll. 

AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Nadal beats Federer for Australian Open title 
Top-ranked player claims Men's Singles championship in five sets; Becomes first Spaniard to win title 

Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Rafael Nadal held off Roger Federer in another five-set Grand Slam final, keeping Pete Sampras' record of 14 major titles intact for now. 
Nadal became the first Spanish man to win the Australian Open, beating Federer 7-5, 3-6, 7-6 (3). 3­6, 6-2 in a momentum­swinging, 4-hour, 22-minute final that finished just after midnight on Sunday. 
Federer, trying to equal Sampras' record, sobbed at the trophy presentation. 
"Maybe I'll try later. God, it's killing me," Federer said, crying. He returned to congratulate Nadal within minutes, saying: "You deserved it. You played a fantastic final." 
Top-ranked Nadal, who has won five of the seven Grand Slam finals they've contested, now has a major on hard courts to go with his titles on clay and grass. 
He's the only man capable of a Grand Slam this season, 40 years after Australian great Rod Laver last won all four majors in one season. 
"Roger, sorry for today. I really know how you feel right now," Nadal said. "Remember, you're a great 
CLASSIFIEDS 
champion, you're one of the best in history. You're going to improve on the 14 of Sampras." 
Nadal collected the trophy from Laver, on the court that was named in the great Australian's honor, and put his arm around Federer. 
"To receive this trophy from Rod Laver is a dream for me," he said. "Rod, thanks very much. It was an amazing two weeks for me." 
Nadal advanced to the final after holding off fellow Spanish left-bander Fernando Verdasco on Friday in 5 hours, 14 min­utes -the longest match in the tournament's history. 
Federer had a straight­sets win over Andy Roddick the previous night, but said the difference in prepara­tion had no influence on the final. 
He said the fact he'd missed the Sampras record at a tournament he's won three times didn't make the loss any worse or easier to take. 
"Honestly, no," he said. "I mean, it's more like, in the first moment you're disap­pointed, you're shocked, you're sad, you know, then all of a sudden it over­whelms you. 
"The problem is you can't 
go in the locker room and just take it easy and take a cold shower. You're stuck out there. It's the worst feel­ing.... it's rough." 
Federer, so dominant when he won three of the four majors in 2006 and 2007, has now lost finals on three different surfaces to Nadal. 
He hasn't given up hope of beating the 22-year-old Spaniard. 
"For sure," he said. "I did­n't spend 4% hours out there (not) believing it." 
Nadal has four consecutive titles on clay at Holand Garros and beat Federer on grass in a five-set epic at Wimbledon last year. 
He is 13-6 overall against Federer and ended the Swiss star's 237-week streak at No. 1 last year after claim­ing the Beijing Olympic gold medal. 
Federer, who turned around that season with a 
U.S. Open title, saved two championship points from 15-40 in the eighth game of the fifth set but sent a fore­hand long on the third match point. 
Nad~l flopped onto his back, then got up and raced to shake hands. 
The players put their arms around the other's shoulders at the net as they walked off the court. 

Although Federer actually won one more point -174­173 -his serve let him down all too frequently. He conneeted on only 51 per­cent of his first serves, and it seemed as if all of his six double-faults eame at criti­eal times. 
And as the pressure ratch­eted up in the fifth set, it was Federer who wilted, not Nadal. Federer had six win­ners and 14 unforeed errors in the set, while Nadal had just two unforced errors and dropped only three points in four service games. 
Federer was only able to convert 6 of 19 breakpoint chances. Nadal converted 7 of 16. 
Both players started tight, committing uncharacteristie errors. Knowing that weak shots would be punished, they were pushing the lim­its. 
They exchanged se rviee breaks in the first two games. Normally calm on court, Federer pumped his fist after breaking for a 4-2 lead only to double-fault when facing break point in the next game. 
Nadal got the key break with Federer serving at 5-5. The crowd was stunned when the Swiss smacked a forehand wide on an easy short ball to make it 15-40, and Nadal followed with a forehand passing shot win­ner, then held for the set. 
With Nadal seemingly get­
ting to everything and rip­ping winners, Federer was looking tentative and hesi­tating to charge the net. 
But he started putting win­ners together and cutting his mistakes in the second set. After Nadal broke for a 4-3 lead, Federer broke the Spaniard's next two service games, taking a 5-3 lead after converting his fifth break point of the game. He then held to take the set. 
Then the match intensi­fied. 
Amid a series of rallies lasting more than 20 shots, Nadal saved six break points in his last two service games in the third· set, and Federer fended off a set point while serving at 5-6. 
A lunging backhand volley winner gave Nadal a 6-3 lead in the tiebreaker, earn­ing him chants of "Rafa!" and Federer double-faulted. 
Federer saved five break points while serving at 2-2 in the fourth set, then broke Nadal in the next game for a 4-2 edge. 
He closed with a service winner to even it at two sets apiece. 
Nadal broke Federer for a 3-1 lead and the clock ticked past midnight in the next game, taking the tourna­ment into a third week. 
It was the first Australian Open men's final to go to five sets since Mats Wilander beat Pat Cash in 1988, the first at Melbourne Park. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
New pop Christian music by Will of Titus available at www.willoftitus.com or itunes 
JOB-HOUSE 
CLEANING.E.ANGELA. 288-8904. 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
Unfurnished 4-bdrm. 3ba.fpl,sky­lights,2-car garage, FR. deluxe appl, avail. August. Call 574-232­4527 or 269-683-5038. 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/10. CES Property Management. 574-968-0112 CESPM.info 
613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2­bdrm houses. $350/person. Call 574-876-6333. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 

Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­3537. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2009-10. 
2-4 BEDROOMS, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, STAINLESS STEEL APPLIANCES. 
CALL BILL: 574-532-1896. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safety/assis­tance-for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http:1/osa.nd. edu/health­safety/assaultl 
Expert prediction for Super Bowl XLIV: 
New York Giants: 21 New England Patriots: 17 
MVP: Justin Tuck 


Monday, February 2, 2009 CoMPilED FROM THE OnsERVEftS WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Men's Indoor Track and Field Ran kings 
team points previous 
1 Oregon 132 19 2 Arizona St. 130 1 3 Arkansas 129 6 4 Florida 126 8 5 Florida St. 104 2 6 Texas A&M 102 10 7 Texas 82 3 8 LSU 79 4 9 Louisville 73 NR 10 BYU 71 NR 11 Kentucky 69 NR 12 Texas Tech 67 NR 13 UNI 65 9 14 Baylor 59 19 15 Nebraska 56 17 16 South Carolina 55 NR 17 Michigan 54 NR 18 Kansas St. 52 NR 19 Arizona 51 NR 20 Georgia 49 NR 
USCHO/CBS Men's Hockey. Rankings 
team record points 
1 NOTRE DAME 19·3·3 987 2 Boston University 18·5·1 963 3 Northeastern 17·5·2 867 4 Cornell 14·2·3 831 5 Minnesota 12·5·5 791 6. Vermont 14·5·4 716 7 denver 15·7-3 696 

'I I &-,• •Michigall! ·; f" H :f fli n '.HJ t8·8·0L·'""-l. <6!}2 
~:3g. 
9 Princeton 13·5·0 582 10 Miami (Ohio) 14·8·4 553 11 Boston College 11·8•3 450 

Associated Press night. Roethlisberger held coach Already owning a slew of
12 North Dakota 15-10·3 432 

"Great players step up Mike Tomlin's hand as postseason receiving 
TAMPA, Fla. -The in big-time games to Kurt Warner led one last, marks this year, winning play of the Super make plays," said but futile, drive. Fitzgerald sped down the Bowl was right out of a Holmes, the game's MVP. "These guys just don't middle of the field, schoolyard. He said he told blink;" Tomlin said. "They watching himself outrun
NCAA Women's Basketball 

Scamble right, scram­Roethlisberger that he deliver. It's never going to the Steelers on the hugeAP Poll ble left, find someone "wanted to be the guy to be pretty or perfect, if video screen. 
open. make the plays for this you will, but they have a Fitzgerald could only team points previous The perfect unscripted team." great deal of resolve." watch from the sideline ending to a game of And he was. The Steelers (15-4). as Roethlisberger engi­
1 Connecticut 1125 1 

improbable swings. This thriller certainly winning their second neered a 78-yard drive to
2 Oklahoma 1062 3 

Their Steel Curtain matched last year's upset Super Bowl in four sea­win it in what resembled
3 Duke 1002 4 

shredded, Ben of the New England sons, led 20-7 in the Heinz Field South. With
4 Baylor 997 5 

Roethlisberger and Patriots by the New York fourth quarter, only to see waves of twirling Terrible
5 Auburn 959 6 

Santonio Holmes impro­Giants that ended with Warner and the Cardinals Towels turning Raymond
6 Louisville 906 7 

vised the 6-yard touch­Plaxico Burress' TO catch stage a remarkable rally James Stadium into a
7 California 843 8 

down with 35 seconds left -with 35 seconds left, to go in front 23-20 with black-and-gold tableau ­
8 Maryland 773 12 

that gave the Pittsburgh too. 2:37 remaining. Steelers fans supporting
9 Stanford 747 11 

Steelers a record-setting But this one was even Warner hit All-Pro their beloved team, the
10 North Carolina 716 2 

sixth Super Bowl victory, wilder. With the last ten­receiver Larry Fitzgerald economy be damned ­
11 TexasA&M 697 9 12 Florida 595 15 

27-23 over the Arizona sion-packed seconds tick­in stride for a 64-yard Pittsburgh's offense res­
13 Tennessee 593 10 Cardinals on Sunday ing away, a kneeling touchdown with 2:37 left. cued the title. 14 Kansas St. 490 18 15 Ohio St. 466 19 16 Texas 448 14 17 NOTRE DAME 443 13 IN BRIEF 18 Florida St. 347 22 
19 Virginia 307 16 Varitek, Red Sox reach NFL greats Smith, Woodson Ovechkin scores 3 20 Vanderbilt 246 17 preliminary agreement make Hall of Fame Captials top Senators, 7-4 21 Pittsburgh c168 25 BOSTON -The Boston Red Sox TAMPA -Bruce Smith, Rod WASHINGTON-Alex Ovechkin claims 22 Iowa Sl. 130 NR wrapped up their offseason bargain Woodson and Derrick Thomas, all to dislike games that ~iart early. His per· 23 Xavier 118 NR hunting Friday by reaching a prelimi­witnesses for the defense. All Pro formanr.e on the ice the past two contests 24 South Dakota St. 97 NR nary agreement with catcher and cap­Football Hall of Famers. tells a different story. 25 DePaul 86 NR tain Jason Varitek that pays him half as The three were elected on Ovechkin scored three goals for his sev­
much in 2009 as he made last season. Saturday along with longtime enth career hat trick and second of the Varitek heads into his 13th major Buffalo Bills owner Ralph Wilson, season to lead the Washington Capital<; to 
-league season, all with the Red Sox, with who at age 90 will be the oldest a 7-4 win over the Ottawa Senators on a guaranteed $5 million for 2009 and a person ever inducted; former Sunday. player option of $3 million or a team Minnesota guard Randall It was the second consecutive day the option of $5 million for 2010, two people McDaniel; and the late Bob Hayes, Capitals had a 12:30 p.m. start. On familiar with the talks said, speaking on a standout wide receiver for Saturday, Ovechkin said he felt "sleepy"
around the dial 

condition of anonymity because the Dallas and the 1964 Olympic 100 early in the game, but woke up with two agreement was not yet final. meters gold medalist. goals in the third period. He had no prob­That's quite a drop from the four-year, Inductions will be Aug. 8 in lems getting going Sunday, picking up hi'l 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL $40 million deal that ended after last Canton, Ohio. three goals in the first two periods. season and less than he would have The only candidate among the Asked after the game if he liked the 
No. 2 Connecticut at No. 7 Louisville 

made had he accepted the team's offer of seven finalists who didn't get in early game time, he had a simple answer. 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 

arbitration in early December. was former Falcons .and Eagles "No," Ovechkin said. 
But it was in keeping with the Red Sox defensive end Claude Humphrey. Saturday night, Ovechkin went to bed atNHL strategy of conservative contracts while Former commissioner Paul about 8 p.m. and woke up at 6:30 a.m. to St. Louis at Detroit the New York Yankees went on a spend­Tagliabue was denied entry for get to the arena for Sunday's game. Even ing spree that amounted to $423.5 mil­the third straight year, not even though he's not a fan of the earlier rou­
7:00 p.m., VS. 

lion in long-term deals for three free making it past the first round of tine, the early wake-up call clearly had agents. cuts. him feeling fresh right from the start. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 2, 2009 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame to play in indoor chan1pionship 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish punched their ticket to the ITA National Indoor championships with a 4-1 victo­ry over No. 14 Arkansas in the finals Of the ITA qualifying tour­nament Sunday in Fayetteville, Ark. 
The No. 1-ranked doubles squad of senior Kelcy Tefft and freshman Kristy Frilling led Notre Dame off with an 8-1 blowout victory over the No. 8 doubles squad from Arkansas. Shortly after, the doubles team of freshman Shannon Matthews and junior Colleen Rielley clinched the match's doubles point with an 8-5 victory over their opponents. 
In singles play, after Notre Dame had dropped the first match to fall into a 1-1 tie, the Irish strung together three straight victories from sopho­more Kristin Rafael, junior Cosmina Ciobanu and Matthews to seal the match and advance into the round of 16. 
In Saturday's first round 
matchup, No. 17 Notre Dame 
swept No. 44 Pepperdine 5-0 to 
advance to Sunday's final. 
The Irish rolled through the doubles competiti~n taking all three matches without dropping more than three games in either match. In doubles com­petition, Tefft and Frilling were strong once again improving to 16-1 on the year with an 8-2 victory over the squad from Pepperdine. 
The singles matches offered more of the same from the Irish. Frilling got the Irish off to a good start downing her oppo­nent 6-0, 6-1 to put the Irish up 2-0. After Ciobanu claimed .another victory for the Irish, Rafael and junior Kali Krisik stepped up and notched wins to 
seal the 5-0 victory. 
Notre Dame advances to the 
indoor championship tourna­
ment which will be held in 
Madison, Wis. Feb. 13-16. 
There, the Irish will compete 
against 15 other schools for the 
indoor national championship. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish vvin one, lose one at ITA National Invite 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Wri rer 
No. 32 Notre Dame dropped its first match of two on the weekend to No. 12 Tulsa at the ITA National Indoors. 
The Irish dropped the dou­bles points with two 8-4 losses at one and three doubles. 
Tulsa's fourth-ranked doubles team of Arnau Bruges and Philip Stevens were able to take down the Irish's No. 37 ranked team of senior Brett Helgeson and sophomore Tyler Davis. 
At three doubles freshman Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Matt Johnson fell to Alberto Sottocorno and Ashley Watling by the same score. 
"Casey Watt and Niall Fitzgerald are great shot mak­ers," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Sam Keeton has the ability to flat out rip the ball from the back court. Each has skills that rank up there with some of the better players we have had here.· The question with our guys is whether or not they can each adopt the prac­tice and daily life habits." 
At No. 2 doubles, freshman Casey Watt and sophomore Steven Havens were able to defeat Marko Ballok and Ross Cunningham in an 8-1 win. 
Fitzgerald was able to earn a win at singles over Watling by a score of 6-1, 6-4. Keeton con­tinued his unbeaten spring sea­son improving to 4-0 with a 6­2, 6-2 win over Ballok which moved the overall match score to 2-1 in Notre Dame's favor. 
The Irish could not hold on, losing at one, two and four sin­gles to lose the match 4-2. 
No. 112 sophomore Dan Stahl was not able to finish his match against No. 91 Stephens which would have finished in a third set. 
Notre Dame v. Texas Tech 
In their consolation match, the Irish were able to take down the No. 20 team in the nation, Texas Tech. 
Again at No. 3 doubles Fitzgerald and Johnson were able to come out on top in this match defeating David Gonzalez and Milos Kustudija by a score of 8-4. 
Helgeson and Davis fell again in this match losing to the No. 7 team of Raony Carvahlo and Christian Rojmar 8-5. 
Watt and Havens won at No. 2 doubles by a score of 9-7. 
"Fitzgerald is brimming with talent," Bayliss said. "The No. 5-6 spots will likely come from a nucleus of Tyler Davis, Sam Keeton, David Anderson and Niall Fitzgerald, with Matt Johnson right there with them. Davis and Keeton are lefties, Anderson is very solid." 
Keeton was able to defeat Gonzalez by a score of 7-6 (8), 7-5 in the first match finished. Keeton's record is now 5-0 on the young season. 
Havens was able to defeat Sinisa Markovic by a score of 7­6(4)7-5 
Watt was able to win at No. 4 singles over Michael Breier by a score of 2-6, 7-5, 6-~ to clinch the match for the Irish. 
Helgeson,  Stahl,  and  
Fitzgerald's  matches  went  
unfinished.  

The Irish will now host the Duke Blue Devils and Toledo on Feb. 8 at the Eck Tennis Center. Duke will begin at noon and Toledo will begin at 6. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 
FENCING 

Women top No. 1 Penn St. 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's No. 1 men's fencing team (13-0) and No. 2 women's fencing team (12-2) combined for an 11-0 record at day one of the Northwestern Duals this weekend in Evanston, Ill. Both squads posted vietories over top-ranked Penn State teams. 
The men turned in wins over Johns Hopkins (23-4), Northwestern (20-7), Cleveland State (24-3), No. 10 North Carolina (21-6), and Penn State (14-13), who cur­rently are tied with the Irish atop the USFCA poll. • 
On the women's side, the team went 6-0 with wins against John's Hopkins (25-2), Penn State (19-8), No. 8 Temple (19-8), Farleigh Dickinson (24-3), Lawrence (25-2) and Wayne State (23­
4). 

The teams' early suceess has established the young Notre Dame fencers as one of the toughest squads in the country, and Irish coach Janusz Bednarski has his eyes set on his third national championship in seven years with the program. 
The highlight of the first day of competition was the men's team's 14-3 bout against rival Penn State. Holding a narrow 1:~-12 lead late in the match, Bednarski made a late substi­epeeist Ewa Nelip, foilist Hayley Reese, and sabre Eileen Hassett each went undefeated at 3-0 in the match, with Reese's second victory against the 2007 National Champion, sopho­more foilist Doris Willette. 

tution, placing sophomore Jacob Osborne "Reese is a young
into the epee 

fencer who cannot
lineup.· Osborne fell stand to lose. Defeat 
behind 4-3 in is not an option
the 5-touch 

when she is coming 
bout, but rat­

tled off the onto the strip.,, next two points to clinch 
Janusz Bednarski 
the match for 

Irish coach
the Irish. "[Osborne] is a fencer who 

"Reese is a young fencer who cannot stand to lose. Defeat is not an option when she is coming onto the strip," Bednarski said. "She is a very intelligent play­er who forces opponents to fence her way." 
T h e Northwestern 
can win against anybody," Bednarski said. "At the same time, he can run the technical show and score sophisticated touches as he gets more sta­ble and more mature in his bouts." 
The Notre Dame women put on a clinic against Penn State, with a dominating 19-8 blowout against the first­ranked rival. Sophomores Duals concluded Sunday afternoon. The men squared off against Wayne State and No. 3 Ohio State in the after­noon, while the women took on Cleveland State and No. 3 Ohio State in the morning. Results were not available as of Sunday night. 

Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


Read more about Notre Dame sports at observersportsb log. wordpress.com 
Monday, February 2, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
ND TRACK AND FIELD
SWIMMING 
Phelps discusses pot photo Irish impress in first 
year. He also was honored asAP behalf of a sponsor. But he left the 

tw-o-day llleets of year
Associated Press 
male athlete of the year, and his city before Sunday's game 

Olympic great Michael Phelps acknowledged "regrettable" behavior and "bad judgment" after a photo in a British newspa­per Sunday showed him inhaling from a marijuana pipe. 
In a statement to The Associated Press, the swimmer who won a record eight gold medals at the Beijing Games did not dispute the authenticity of the exclusive picture published Sunday by the tabloid News of the World. 
"I engaged in behavior which was regrettable and demonstrat­ed bad judgment," Phelps said in the statement released by one of his agents. 'Tm 23 years old and despite the successes I've had in the pool, I acted in a youthful and inappropriate way, not in a man­ner people have come to expect from me. For this, I am sorry. I promise my fans and the public it will not happen again." 
News of the World said the pic­ture was taken during a November house party while Phelps was visiting the University of South Carolina. During that trip, he attended one of the school's football games and received a big ovation when he was introduced to the crowd. 
While the newspaper did not specifically allege that Phelps was smoking pot, it did say the pipe is generally used for that purpose and anonymously quoted a party­goer who said the Olympic cham­pion wa.<; "out of control from the moment he got there." 
The U.S. Olympic Committee said it was "disappointed in the behavior recently exhibited by Michael Phelps," who was select­ed the group's sportsman of the feat in Beijing -breaking Mark Spitz's 36-year-old record for most gold medals in an Olympics -was chosen as the top story of 2008. 
"Michael is a role model, and he is well aware of the responsibili­ties and accountability that come with setting a positive example for others, particularly young peo­pie," the USOC said in a state­ment. "In this instance, regret­tably, he failed to fulfill those responsibilities." 
The party occurred nearly three months after the Olympics while Phelps was taking a long break from training, and this apparently would have no impact on the eight golds he won at Beijing. He has never tested positive for banned substances and even agreed to extra testing before the games. 
Marijuana is viewed differently from performance-enhancing drugs, according to David Howman, executive director of the World Anti-Doping Agency. An athlete is subject to WADA sane­tions only for a positive test that occurs during competition peri­ods. 
"We don't have any jurisdic­tion," Howman said. "It's not banned out of competition. It's only if you test positive in compe­tition." 
Phelps returned to the pool a couple of weeks ago to begin preparations for this summer's world championships in Rome. He plans to take part in his first post-Olympics meet in early March, a Grand Prix event in Austin, Texas. 
Phelps was in Tampa, Fla., dur­ing Super Bowl week to make promotional appearances on 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles drop close tnatch in final event 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
In their second to last meet of the season, the Belles fell to the Kalamazoo Hornets 155-145 in a match decided by the last event. 
Coming into the 400-yard freestyle relay, the fmal competi­tion, the Belles trailed the Hornets by live, a deficit that could have been overcome by a victory in the 
400. Unfortunately for the Belles, they were edged in the event, and therefore dropped their third head­to-head MIAA meet this season. 
Despite the loss, the Belles had a successful meet. recording 10 sea­son-best times. 
The team started off' quickly, set­ting two of those times in the first two events of the night. Sophomore Maggie Williams and freshmen Audrey Dalrymple, Eva Cavadini and Barbara Beidler st.:'lrted off the night with a season-best time in the 400-medley relay. 
Then, in the next event, senior Melissa Gerbeth posted her sea­son-best time in the 1,000-freestyle event, which gave her first-place honors. Gerbeth was also victori­ous in the SOD-freestyle competi­tion, in which she swam 5:22.87, another season-best. 
Dalrymple led the Belles with three first-place finishes, one in the 100-breaststroke, another in the 200-breaststroke and the last in the 200-individual medley, which was also a season-best time. 
Williams was the only other Belle to achieve first-place honors with a victory in the 100-backstroke. 
Many other Belles improved on their season-best time in the meet against the Hornets, a good sign as the Belles come closer to the MIAA Championships. Cavadini improved her 400-medley time, while Beidler recorded her best race of the year in the 50-freestyle. 
Senior diver Leah Bocinsky improved her scores in both the 1­meter and 3-meter diving events. Another senior, Kate Orbon, cut two-tenths of a second off of her 100-freestyle time and sophomore Caroline Arness also topped her season-best time in the 100-butter­fly. 
The Belles will try to keep improving to make a strong show­ing to end the season, as they will take on conference opponent Olivet this weekend before competing in the MIAA Championships Feb. 18­20 at Notre Dame. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
between the Pittsburgh Steelers the 400, junior Balazs Molnar fm­and Arizona Cardinals, abandon­By DOUG FARMER ished second, freshman Jordan

ing his original plan to be at 

Sports Writer Rincon took third, and Buzaid
Raymond James Stadium. 

earned fifth.
This isn't the first embarrassing The Notre Dame field competi­

episode for Phelps after an The Irish split up this past tors were led by the Schipper
Olympic triumph. In 2004, a few weekend, sending partial teams 
brothers, freshman Kevin and
months removed from winning six to the Findlay Open in Ohio and junior Matt, who tied for second
gold and two bronze medals in the Indiana Invitational in 
in the pole vault with heights ofAthens, the swimmer was arrest­Bloomington. Notre Dame looked 5.27 meters, or over 17 feet. 
ed on a drunken driving charge at sharp in both of its first two-day The women's squad was just as age 19. He pleaded guilty and meets of the year. 
successful as the men. In the 400, apologized for the mistake. · "The meets this weekend were junior Joanna Schultz and fresh­In his book "No Limits: The Will primarily about getting the team man Natalie Geiger in a one-twoto Succeed," Phelps recounted acclimated to two-day competi­finish with times of 54.77 seconds how his first phone call was to his tions again," senior middle-dis­and 55.31 seconds, respectively. 
agent, and not his mother or tance runner Bill Buzaid said. 
Sophomore Kelly Langhans
coach Bob Bowman, because he "Big East championships are fast 
earned first in the 600 with a
knew they would yell at him. approaching, and we need to 
time of 1:33.42, as freshman
Later, he called Bowman, who make sure that we are mentally teammate Allison Schroeder fin­was supportive but told him, and physically prepared to exe­ished fourth in 1:35.33. 
"Michael, just because you want cute on back-to-hack days." 
The team continued to roll asto blow off some steam doesn't In Ohio, freshman Maddie time went on. Sophomore Natalie mean you can be an idiot." Buttinger finished second in the Johnson won the 800 in 2:12.22,
Debbie Phelps, his mother, cried pentathlon with 3,694 points, and junior Lindsay Ferguson took at the news. while sophomore Justin second in the mile with 4:55.23. 
"That hurt worse, maybe, than Schneider won the men's hep­Senior Mary Saxer and Annaanything," Phelps wrote. "I had tathlon with 5,061 points. 
Weber continued to dominate 
never seen my mother that "Day one was certainly a suc­
their individual events with
upset." cess for us," Buzaid said, with another pair of wins. Saxer took Bowman did not immediately Notre Dame athletes qualifying the pole vault crown with a markrespond to phone and e-mail mes-for Saturday's finals throughout of 4.07 meters, and Weber placed sages Sunday. the spectrum of events. 
first in the weight throw with aLast year, News of the World On Saturday, the team's suc­
heave of 18.80 meters. In the
posted video on its Web site show­cess was led by junior Jack shot put, junior Jaclyn Espinoza ing Max Mosley, the president of Howard in the 600-meter dash, took third with a toss of 14.01
motor racing's governing body, as he won with a time of 1:20.33. 
meters.
engaging in sex acts with five Junior Jim Notwell finished third "I think the meet was a suc­prostitutes. The video was filmed in the event, less than half a sec­cess," Buzaid said. "We showedby one of the women, and Mosley ond behind Howard at 1:20.76. 
resiliency in coming back andadmitted to being a part of the Notre Dame's strong middle-dis­performing on two straight days." 
scenario but sued for breach of tance group picked up another 
With these positive results
privacy and was awarded win when junior Blake Choplin under their belts, the teams will$120,000 in damages. Another crossed the finish line first in the reunite next weekend to host the news break involved Prince Harry 800 with a time of 1:51.10. 
Meyo Invitational.
in 2002, smoking marijuana and Hungary native Miklos Szebeny drinking before the legal age of ran the 200 in 22.12 seconds, Contact Doug Farmer at 
18. good enough for third place. In dfarmer1@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 2, 2009 
Pitt 
continued from page 20 
Offensively for the Irish, the biggest difference in the second half was 3-point shooting. In the first half, Notre Dame regained its old shooting form, looking nothing like the team that shot a combined 16-53 
(30.1 percent) from behind the arc against Connecticut and Marquette. The Irish attempted 22 threes, making 11 -putting them on a pace to break the school record of 19 3-pointers set earlier this season against South Dakota. 
Then Notre Dame stopped shooting from deep. 
In the second half, the Irish attempted only five 3-pointers, four of which were taken in the final 2:30 after the game was out of reach. Part of the change was due to the Panthers guard­ing more closely against the trey, but the Irish also seemed to stop playing for the three. Forward Luke Zeller, who torched Pittsburgh for six 3­pointers in the first half, played only six minutes in the second half. 
On the other end of the floor, the big difference was rebound­ing. Although Pittsburgh outre­bounded Notre Dame 25-16 in the first half, the Irish con­tained the damage, giving up only nine second-chance points. The Panthers, however, turned the second half into an offen­sive rebounding clinic, grab­bing 13 and scoring 20 second­chance points. Notre Dame had 11 second-chance points for the entire game. 
Leading the way for Pittsburgh on the glass was sophomore DeJuan Blair. The Irish had no answer for the 6­foot-7, 265-pound. Forward, who grabbed a career high 22 rebounds to go along with 23 points. 
"My team did a good job of getting me the ball," Blair said. "Twenty-two rebounds? I didn't know that. That's crazy. That's really something." 
Harangody, who guarded Blair for most of the afternoon, said that Blair is the toughest player to go against in the Big East. 
"He never stops working," llarangody said. "I love his game. Twenty-two rebounds is tough to do in one game. But their whole team played well, and it showed." 
Despite going up against another first-class big man, Harangody turned in another solid performance. lie scored 27 points to go along with 11 rebounds and four assists. 
Unlike previous games, I-Iarangody got some scoring help from his teammates early in the game. Zeller scored a career-high 18 points, all com­ing on 3-point field goals in the first half. ForwaNi Hyan Ayers rediscovered his shooting stroke, hitting two of four three-point field goals on his way to 10 points. Ft)rward Zach IIillesland also notched double ligures with 12 points. 
Note: 
+ Despite its seeond half struggles, Notre Dame became the Jirst team to crack the 80­point plateau this Sf1ason against Pittsburgh. 
"A silver lining," Brey said. "When we had 45 on the board fat halftimeI. I said to my staff, 'Let's get 90.' Even 90 wouldn't have got it done today." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 


Schrader 
continued from page 20 
off turnovers and had 16 sec­ond -chance points. 
"We're just sick of losing, and we're sick of talking about los­ing," Schrader said. "We have to go out there and let our actions show." 
Sophomore forward Becca Bruszewski finished with 15 points and seven rebounds, junior guard Ashley Barlow had a career-high eight steals and junior guard Melissa Lechlitner had seven assists and eight rebounds. 
Freshman forward Kellie Watson had 10 points and hit three 3-pointers, two within 40 seconds of one another in the final minutes, and had five rebounds. 
"[Watson] hit two daggers back to back that ended it," Bearcats coach J. Kelley Hall said. 
Schrader set her previous career high of 14 rebounds on Nov. 18, 2005, against Michigan in her first collegiate game. She said the team need­ed rebounds because it enabled the offense to operate effective­ly. 
"I think it was in everyone's mindset to rebound because when you get to rebound, you get to run," she said. "And that's our game, transition and running." 
Bearcats junior guard Kahla Roudebush finished with 13 points and had six turnovers in the game. Senior guard Angel Morgan scored 10 points and had nine rebounds. Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she liked the defensive effort, both on Roudebush and the team as a whole. 
"We held [Roudebush] to 13, she's a great player, she's one of the better players in the con­ference, so to be able to shut her down I thought was a very encouraging sign," McGraw said. "And the way they shot from the 3-point line, we had not done that in Big East play." 
The Bearcats were 4-for-17 from beyond the arc. Notre Dame led 52-33 with 
12:01 remaining in the second half. The Bearcats went almost five minutes without a field goal until Morgan picked up a bucket and the foul. Senior for­ward Jill Stephens's 3-pointer ting them again. I just wanted capped an 8-3 Bearcats run to be productive and help the and pulled Cincinnati within 13 team score some points." with 8:12 to play. Cincinnati went 4:38 without 
Junior guard scoring late in Stephanie the first hall', Stevens made a when Stevens 
layup with 4:49 "We're just sick of converted a 3­
left, but was losing, and we're sick point play to fouled after tho make tho seore
oftalking about los­
shot and was 23-19 Irish. By 
awarded two ing. We have to get then, howPver, 
free throws. She out there and let our Schrader dneid­made them ed to bury the
actions show. " 
both, and the Bearcats. Bearcats cut the In the final lead to single Lindsey Schrader 2:49 of the first digits. But Irish senior half, Schrader 
Watson hit two 3-point shots in 40 seconds, putting Notre Dame ahead by 15 and ending Cincinnati's hopes of a come­back. 
Watson hadn't made a 3­pointer since Jan. 13 against Marquette and was 0-for-10 in her last three games, but once she hit her first on Saturday, the others started falling. 
"The first one was always the toughest to get down, after you get the first one down you get in rhythm," she said. "It felt 
scored seven 
points and ignit­ed a 13-2 Notre Dame run. She had a chance at two 3-point plays but missed the free throw both times. She had 13 points and 11 rebounds at the half. when the Irish led 36-26. 
Note: 
+ Freshman guard Fraderica Miller did not dress for the game and had a walking boot on her right foot. 
Contact Bill Brink at 


Please recycle The OtJserver. 
really good to finally start hit-wbrink@nd.edu 


This summer, 


put your knowledge to work in Boston. 
Summer Study Internship Program  Learn More.  
May 19-August 14, 2009  617-353-0556  
bu.edujsummerjinternship  
• Applied Health Sciences  
• Arts & Culture  
• Business & Management  
·Communication  
• Graphic & Web Design  
• International Studies  
• Politics & Public Policy  
•Psychology & Social Policy  



Monday, February 2, 2009 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Cursed 
continued from page 20 
the Leprechaun Legion painted their chests, "New Streak Starts Tonight." It didn't. Instead, Notre Dame is stuck in a five-game los­ing streak. 
The next night on Jan. 27 the women took the court against a mediocre Rutgers squad to ing gravity. One of them even turned a bucket of water into confetti in mid air. 
The curse was started by the Harlem Globetrotters. 
The Globetrotters didn't post their game's results anywhere with public access, but rumor has it even the Washington Generals left the Joyce Center with an upset win -officially 
ending the 
25,000-plus 
game winning 
streak for 

right the ship. Harlem.
That leaves Jenkins 

Wrong. The JACC
and the athletic office 

The Lady Irish needs an exor­dropped their with only one option, cism. University second straight President John 
it's time to level the 

and ended their Jenkins made a
Joyce.

own 13-game phone call this 
home streak. The last time they lost at home was exactly one year before against, who else, the Connecticut Huskies. 
Friday night, the No. 1-ranked hockey team put its own 20­game winning streak on the line against No. 7/8 Michigan. The Irish held one of the most explo­sive offenses in the country to only two goals, but the curse struck again and yet another streak went up in smoke. 
What happened? 
There were some big hits Friday, but no glass was shat­tered. The Irish backcourt need­ed a ladder to guard 7 -foot-3 Huskies center Hasheem Thabeet, but no one walked underneath it. I searched the entire campus and couldn't find any billy goats. 
After some serious detective work, I think I may have gotten to the bottom of the unlucky Irish. 
The night before the evil spir­its moved in, a small group of men was spotted inside the Joyce Center performing what could only be described as voodoo magic. These self-pro­claimed magicians blasted their eerie whistling music while defy-weekend that he 
thought would 
help. 
Jenkins got in contact with an old friend from the seminary, Father Lankester Merrin. You may remember him from his role in the 1973 horror thriller 'The Exorcism." 
Sadly, Merf·in is a busy man. He said he would only come to cast out the evil of the JACC when Mike Brey's head starts spinning in circles. Unfortunately, mock turtlenecks are extremely restricting when it comes to head spins. 
That leaves Jenkins and the athletic office with only one option, it's time to level the Joyce. 
To be honest, it's well overdue. The Purcell Pavilion construction is already getting started. The hockey rink has to be the worst facility in the country, at any level. But that's a topic for a dif­ferent day. 
Maybe this curse isn't so bad after all. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and do not necessarily represent those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu. 
Split 
continued from page 20 
unbeaten streak. Despite the loss, Notre Dame sophomore right wing Ryan Guentzel said the big-game atmosphere got the Irish players more than ready to go. 
"It was crazy," he said. "Forty-five minutes before warm-ups the student section was absolutely packed. It got the players fired up, and it just shows how far this program has come." 
The teams traded chances in the first period, the Irish had the advantage in shots on goal, but Michigan generated more quality scoring chances. 
The Wolverines finally broke through late in the period though, when Notre Dame sen­ior center Erik Condra appeared to be tripped from behind, but no penalty was called. Michigan forwar-d David Wahlberg picked up the loose puck and fed ·it to team­mate Travis Turnbull. 

A goal immediately after an offensive zone faceoff from Wolverines forward Tim Miller 40 seconds into the second period doubled the Michigan lead to 2-0 and seemed to all but kill the once-raucous JACC crowd. 
The Irish failed to take advantage of back-to-hack Michigan penalties, and the score remained 2-0 with 10 minutes left in the second. 
Soon after, though, Guentzel pushed the puck into the Wolverines net after a pro­longed scramble in the crease, cutting the lead to 2-1 and re­energizing the Irish squad. 
"I just closed my eyes and it went in," Guentzel joked. 
After the goal, however, Michigan went into full lock­down defensively. In what could only be described as a textbook road third period, the Wolverines allowed only five Irish shots in the final stanza, none of them threatening. 
"It wasn't really a shutdown effort," Michigan coach Red 
Berenson said. 
"It was just one 
of those games 
where the puck 

Turnbull beat took our
"Sometimes losses are 
his defenseman bounces."
good for the soul." 
at the right cir­Irish defense­cle and tucked man Kyle a backhand Jeff Jackson Lawson thought shot under the the Wolverines
Irish coach 
post on Irish goalie Jordan Pearce's stick to give Michigan a 1-0 lead at 16:59 of the first period. 
Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson thought that play should have been stopped when Condra was pulled down. 
"No question," Jackson said when asked if he thought a penalty should have been called. "I went back and watched it on tape. They called the same penalty on Ian Cole later in the game." 
coach was just 
being humble. 
"I think he's 

being a little modest," Lawson said. 'That's why he's so good at what he does. They came in here and executed their gameplan bet­ter than we did, I think." 
Despite the loss, Jackson remained confident after the game. 
"Sometimes losses are good for the soul," he said. "It's good to have a nice streak like that; it's been good for the pro­gram. But at the same time it's about us getting ready for the end of the season and games like this help us do that." 
The Irish got right back to work, starting a new streak Saturday, holding off a Michigan rally to walk out of Yost Arena with a win. 
Notre Dame got on the board first after freshman right wing Billy Maday punched a Calle Ridderwall rebound past Wolverine netminder Bryan Hogan at 8:15 of the opening frame. 
Junior right wing Ryan Thang made the lead 2-0 on a penalty shot goal at 4:03 in the second period. After being hauled down from behind by Michigan defenseman Steve Kampfer, Thang started the penalty shot moving wide to hiS backhand side, before switching to forehand and snapping a shot over Hogan's glove. The goal was Notre Dame's first on a penalty shot since Rob Globke's in 2001. 
A goal from Ridderwall at 
12:50 in the second gave the Irish a 3-0 lead going into the fmal period. 
No lead,. however, is safe at Yost Arena, and the Wolverines refused to go quiet­ly. A pair of power-play goals, the first at 4:27 from Aaron Palushaj and the second from Robbie Czarnik at 8:45, made for a tense finale in Ann Arbor. But despite being outshot 14-3 in the fmal period, Pearce and the Irish defense held strong. Notre Dame's senior goalie fin­ished with 36 saves on the night. 
Despite the rink's intimidat­ing reputation, Notre Dame has won two of its last three trips to Yost Arena, and could easily face Michigan again in the CCHA Championship in Detroit. 
The Irish return to action next weekend with a trip to No. 14 Ohio State. 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 2, 2009 



Monday, February 2, 2009 The Observeru TODAY page 19 

CROSSWORD 
Across 29 Has being Make believe 30 Primo 6 Barton who 31 Sn, chemically founded the speaking American Red 
34 On the nose 
Cross 35 Series of scenes 

11 School grp. 
36 Make over 

14 Yo-Yo Ma's 37 Massachusetts' instrument 
Cape_

15 Alphabetically 38 Want badly, withfirst name in the "for"Bible 40 95 things posted 16 Harry Potter's by Martin Lutherbest friend 42 Candidate for a17 Rain source Tony18 It might consist 44 Andy Warholof 9+ 9+ 9+ and genre
1o•J•o•K• 
47 Dominant dogs 20 Speedy two­48 "Star Trek" wheelers lieutenant

22 _-frutti 
49 Who often "did23 "Pulp Fiction" co-it" in a whodunitstar L. 

Jackson 

51 L'eggs product 25 Something often 
53 Game with a stubbed 
bull's-eye 

26 Yankees/Red 57 Annoy Sox matchup, 58 Duck that'll get 
e.g. you down? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 "I'll have the 
60 Etats-Unis 61 Monopoly cards 62 1¢ 
Down 
Radio monitoring org. 
2 Snakelike fish 
3 U.N. agcy. awarded the 1969 Nobel Peace Prize 
4 Most morose 
5 "Absolutely" 
6 Steve of 'The Office" 
7 Extol 
8 An octopus has eight 
9 CD-_ 1 0 "Whenever" 11 Military aircraft 
engine maker _&Whitney 12 Kemo Sabe's companion 13 Actress MacDowell 
19 Enormous 
21 Pod contents 
23Anglo-_ 
24 Like half of Istanbul 
25 Prohibition 
26 Commercial prefix with -max or -cam 
27 ned up, as 
skates 28 Understood 31 Inventor Nikola 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Kevin Donovan 
32 Inventors have 41 Much ballyhooed 50 Played for a sap them 
42 TV character 
52 Hightail it, old­33 Snoopy who says "Don't style
have a cow,
35"Now I understand!" 
man!" 54 Something 18-, 43 Tends, as plants 26-, 42-or 51­36 Say another way Across might 44 Tutee 38 In formation have 
45 Chicago air hub 
39 Barracks bed 55 Sunbathe 
46 Petty gangsters 
40 Like an N.B.A. center 49 Portend 56 Wily 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lola Forsberg, 10; L~e Thompson Yonng. 25; Pauly Shore, -lO; Lisa Marie Presley, 41 
Happy Birthday: Don't let your dreams be trampled by someone who hasn't got your \'ision. There is a Jesson to be learned from one-sided partnerships. It is time to weigh the relationships in your life. Be true to yow·self and your dreams and you will not be disappointed in the results you get. Your numbers are 12, 19, 28. 32. 34, 37,45 
ARIES (Ma1-ch 21-April19): Now is not the time to cut off ties or to turn your hack on o!Iered help. Keeping a lid on the way you feel will help position you much better in the long run. Friendly interaction will get you what you want. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Some things never change, so don't fall for false adver­tising or someone who is trying to pull a fast one on you. Talk and research costs little so get the facts about what you want to try. You will find an ~ffective alternative. 3 stars 
GEl\flNI (May 21-June 20): Take heed of what someone older or more experi~nced tells you and engage in activities that stimulate you m~ntally and physically. Th~ end r~sult will be meeting someone who will contribute to your future. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may he trying too hard to get something that won't be worth it in the end. Ex~ct an argument involving money ow~d or horrow~d. Try to clear this incident np befor~ it leads to an irreconcilable difference. Z stars 
LEO (July 2..l-Aug. 22): A gift, winning or some form of retribution is heading your way. You must avoid business contacts and focus on ~rsonal issues that will better suit your needs. Getting involved with colleagues after hours will cause ongoing problems when you get back to work. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22}: Look at the big picture and you will realiz~ you need a br~ak. Start to put your plans in motion or take off on a little adventure. Fill your day with excitement and enthusiasm with someone you regard highly. 5 slc.'lfs 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be care!itl not to spend on som~thing that promises you the world and brings disappointment instead. Someone will criticize you if you make a poor fmaucial choice or if you are gullible regarding products that will enhanc~ you mentally or physically. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21}: Don't let anyone talk you into doing things that are more costly than your budget can handle. Be smart in the way you handle ~ople and in how you build your profits. Put an end to whatever isn't working. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get out and have some fun but not before you take care of any responsibilities or promises you made to others. A change of plans \\~II lead to a change of heart. Reevaluate some of your relationships. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.l9): Don't get all worked up over nothing. Criticizing or meddling \\'ill only lead to disgruntled responses and put a wedge bet\veen you and lhe person you are trying to help. Do not force your will on others. Z stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A change in vocation or direction in life can be an eye-opener. Do some groundwork to see what you are up against and what possibilities lie ahead. An interesting turn of events \\'ill lead to monetary improvement. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Mm·ch 20): Don't get angry. take action. You have to remain com­posed and put your en~rgy into making things hap~n. If you focus on what will help you as well as the ~ople who conc~rn you, a lot can be accomplished. A past partner­ship can be reestablished. 3 stars 
BirthdaJ Baby: You have drive and are aggre8sive, outspoken and detennined to get your way. You are optimistic. futuristic and innovati\'e. 
Eugruia's U•eb sites: et.lg~nialast .com for corifido1tial consultot;ons, ttl')-'lfXIU .comit'ugenialast for Euge­nia's blog, astroadl·ice .com for fim 
WWW.BLACK00G.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ___________________________________ 
City __________ State _____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 
~lJJMJ])lbiE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
OTAFO 
j
I I r I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YARIF 
j
ri I I
1 j
LADJIE 
I I r 
www.jumble.com 
KNEBOC 
1 
rJ 
Answer here: 

A rI I I J " rI I J" 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  SHINY  PARTY  (Answers Monday) ENGINE BLOUSE  
Answer:  For the geometry class, the study of circles  
was  -POINTLESS  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

'NHA.T D>--0 CONSID­S<ED il-l= IC.Y DRINK ON A l-OT D>--Y. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon . 

.---------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 2, 2009 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Pitt comes back to give Notre Dame its fifth straight loss 
the Irish their fifth consecutive Dame's lead in half. Then the ous put-back slam of a get no closer the rest of the
By GREG ARBOGAST 

loss with a 93-80 win in Irish turned it over on their Jermaine Dixon miss. Poof. Just way.
Sports Writer 

Pittsburgh Saturday. second possession. The like that, everything the Irish "What hurt us is how we For the first 20 minutes Panthers' Sam Young, who had worked for in the first half started the second half," Notre 
Fifty-six seconds into the sec­Saturday, Notre Dame rebound­stole the ball, went coast-to­was suddenly rendered irrele­Dame coach Mike Brey told the ond half Irish coach Mike Brey ed, defended and shot its way coast finishing strong while get­vant. AP. "You can't do that against a called a timeout to slowdown to a 45-39 lead at intermission. ting fouled for a bucket. He hit Irish forward Luke really good team in their build­the Pittsburgh Panthers. It was But that didn't last long. the free throw to tie the game Harangody ended the ing. It's hard to overcome." too late. Receiving the ball to start the at 45. Pittsburgh run with an inside The Panthers outscored the 
The No. 3 Panthers had second half, the Irish turned it After a timeout, the Panthers basket, but consecutive 3-point­Irish 54-35 in the final 20 min­already erased the six-point over on their first possession. scored the next two baskets, ers by Dixon and Fields put the utes of play. Notre Dame halftime lead and Pittsburgh guard Levance with forward DeJuan Blair cap­Panthers up by eight with 15:40 they continued to roll, handing Fields hit a three to cut Notre ping the 10-0 run on a thunder-remaining. Notre Dame would see PITT/page 16 
HOCKEY 

Dances with Wolverines 
Team splits weekend series with Michigan 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
In two close games that lived up to their billing, the Irish split their weekend series with Michigan, falling 2-1 Friday night in the Joyce Center, and winning 3-2 Saturday night in Ann Arbor. 
The split allowed the No. 1 Irish (24-4-3, 14-3-3-3 CCHA) to maintain their hold on first place in the CCHA, two points ahead of Miami (OH) with two games in hand on the RedHawks. 
Friday night, in front of a packed crowd sporting "White Out" T-shirts, the No. 7/8 Wolverines (19-9-0, 13-7-0-0 CCHA) brought an end to Notre Dame's school-record 20-game 
see SPLIT/page 17 


Irish junior Ryan Thang scored Notre Dame's first penalty shot goal in eight years Saturday dur­ing a 3-2 win at Yost Arena in Michigan. The Irish split the weekend series with No. 7 Michigan. 
The haunted JACC is in need ofan exorcism 
Welcome to the Joyce Center -where streaks come to die. As of two weeks ago, the home 

r---==-------, to Notre Dame's hock­ey and basket­ball teams had hosted only two Irish losses in the past nine months. 
Dan Murphy In the past nine days it Sports Editor has seen four. 
Last Saturday, the men's basketball team put its 45-game home win­ning streak on the line against the Connecticut Huskies and the curse of the JACC was born. Two days later, the Irish welcomed Marquette and the front row of 
see CURSED/page 17 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish rebound against Cinci 
Schrader leads the way as ND snaps two-game losing streak 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
To senior guard Lindsay Schrader, no rebound was too far away, no loose ball too much effort, and no shot too difficult. 
Schrader had 19 points and a career-high 15 rebounds dur­ing No. 17 Notre Dame's 66-50 win over Cincinnati Saturday at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame's offensive rebounding and ability to force turnovers sealed the win, which snapped its two-game losing streak. 
The Irish (16-4, 5-3 Big East) grabbed 20 offensive rebounds and forced Cincinnati (13-7, 3­
4) to turn the ball over 26 times. They scored 26 points 
see SCHRADER!page 16 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Hope gets revenge in win over Saint Mary's 
By ALEX WEST Sports Writer 
On Jan. 3, Saint Mary's pulled oft' an upset of then-No. 1 Hope College to take control of the MIAA. Saturday afternoon, the No. 3 Flying Dutch (16-1) got redemption and got back on top of the MIAA with an 84-59 vic­tory over the Belles (11-8). 
The Flying Dutch started out the game strong and never took their foot off the gas. Just six minutes into the contest, Miranda DeKuiper hit a 3-point­er that put Hope up 11 points. The Belles were able to cut the lead back to seven with 12:44 in the first half, but Hope pulled away to a 39-25 lead at half­time. 
The Flying Dutch continued to dominate both sides of the ball in the second half. The Belles couldn't find an answer for Carrie Snikkers who scored a game-high 21 points and pulled down 10 rebounds. Jessica Centa was the leading scorer for the Belles with 12 points. Senior forward Erin Newsom added 10 points and five rebounds, both under her sea­son average. 
On the bright side for the Belles, they forced the Flying Dutch into 18 turnovers and held them under 39 percent shooting. But the Flying Dutch dominated the boards, out rebounding the Belles 57-45. 
The Belles finished their four game road trip 3-1, but fell to second place in the MIAA stand­ings with Saturday's loss. They will try to bounce back at home against Olivet on Wednesday. Tip off it set for 7:30p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 








