

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students travel to D.C. to witness inauguration 
Professor organizes bus to nation's capital Program offers students 
Monday night she stayed in historic opportunity By KAITLYNN RIELY Ohio Congressman Tim Ryan's Associate News Ediror office in the Lopgworth House 
By AARON STEINER
Congressional Building, mere 
Assistanr News Editor 
WASHINGTON -Millions seconds away from the are converging on the nation's Capitol, where Obama will be capital to watch Barack sworn in. WASHINGTON -When they Obama take the presidential "We walk out the door and got to Washington just over a oath of office today, and we are. on Capitol Hill," Lowry week ago, the students in hotels, spare bedrooms and said. On Sunday night, Lowry Notre Dame's Washington couches are being filled stayed with her brother in the Program knew they were arriv­throughout the metropolitan suburbs, but she and her par­ing at an opportune time. area. ents moved to Ryan's office "It's definitely an exciting 
But few people have a closer Monday so they could avoid time to be here," sophomore site to crash than Saint Mary's the traffic into the city. Patrick McDonnell said, echo­sophomore Colleen Lowry. "We have air mattresses and ing the thoughts of most of his 
Transportation routes will there are couches and stuff classmates in the program. be packed with crowds in the here," she said. "Eight of us The inauguration and the early hours this morning, as are staying here, including the hope many have for the millions make their way to the congressman." nation's 44th president has Capitol and the National Mall Lowry left her home in Ohio taken Washington by storm, to watch the swearing-in and Sunday morning and that they said. the inauguration speech at night went to the Ohio Gala "Obama is everywhere you noon. Lowry won't have to Ball at a hotel in·the city. The look. I went to the dinPr and brave crowds on the roads, b_ridges and Metro, since see BUS/page 4 see PROGRAM/page 4 


Campuses celebrate Martin Luther King's legacy 
Jenkins reflects on activist during ND prayer service 
By LIZ LEFEVBRE News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame family gathered yesterday to celebrate Martin Luther King, Jr. and his vision of community with a prayer servicP honoring his legacy in the rotunda of the Main Building. 
The service opened with the singing of "We Shall Overcome" by members of thfl Notre Dame Celebration Choir and continued with Hugh Page, dean of first year studies, reading an excerpt of King's speech from the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery. Ala., 
see MLK/page 6 


year studies, after a prayer service honoring Martin Luther King, Jr. Monday. 
College rentembers day with prayer service, candlelit nzarch 
By MANDl STIRONE Assistant News Editor 
Nearly 40 students, faculty and administrators participated in a can­dlelit march from the Saint Mary's Student Center to Haggar Parlor yes­terday to commemorate Martin Luther King Jr. Day. 
The Martin Luther King Day Celebration Commemorative March and Interfaith Prayer Service started in the Student Center with talks and prayers given by Saint Mary's stu­dents and members of the community. 
Lynn Coleman, assistant to the Mayor of South Bend, addressed par­ticipants about the significance of 
see MARCH/page 6 


ND grad working for Obama 
Finlen transitionedfrom cmnpaign to Presidential Inauguration Comtnittee 
By JENN METZ New£ Editor 
WASIIINGTON-,... Sitting in his new Washington, D.C. apartment on the eve of Inauguration Day, Notre Dame alum Shawn Finlen relaxed with friends. 
Working first on presi­dent-elect .Barack Obama's campaign in the fall and the Presidential Inauguration Committee for the past two weeks. he has clocked hun­
dreds of busy hour.s, man­aging volunteers and organ­izing events. 
"Day-to-day is grueling, working 16-hour days," he said. "It's amazing to be part of not just another political campaign -we thought of.it as more of a movement." 
Finlen, class of '08. majored in Political Seienee at Notre Dame, and joined the Obama team last September. 
An Illinois native. Finlen 
first met Obama 

in 2004 while working for a House of Representatives campaign and had the opportunity to meet him several more times over the past few months, including Monday, thP National Day of Service. 
Finlen worked at an event at a D.C. high school, mak­ing blankets for Walter Reed Army Medical Center and writing inspiring mes-
see OBAMA/page 4 

Lectures, Mass planned to markMoreau feastday 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Today, on the second feast day of Blessed Basil Anthony Moreau, the University comnni­nity will begin to celebrate Moreau and will continue to commemorate his ideals throughout the week with events entitled "Holy Cross: Faith in Our Future." 
The Catholic Chun~h beatified Moreau at a ceremony in LeMans. France, last September, according to Observer archives. 

Beatification iS' a step toward canonization, or proclamation as a saint by the Catholic Church, according to a press release. 
It was at this ceremony that the Church declared Jan. 20­the date of Moreau's death in 1873-as his feast day, accord­ing to a press release. _ 
John Cavadini, chair of the 
see MOREAU/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 20, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Carpe Oban1a 
Did you hear the news'? Therp,'s a small event going on in Washington, 
D.C. today. It may or may not concern the politics of the free world. It might involve one of the greatest new politi­cal minds of our century. And it could, 
just maybe, per­ 
tain to Y-0-U, that  
single American  Analise Lipari  
citizen sitting in  
the dining hall. If you have been  Scene Editor  
anywhere near a  
television, news­ 

paper, radio, or even that one kid down the hall who's been reading pas­sages from "The Audacity of Hope" to you since freshman year, you've prob­ably heard the news: Today, my friends, is Inauguration Day. By the time you're reading this paper. Barack Hussein Obama will have officially been inaugurated as the 44th presi­dent of the United States of America. 
Winning the presidency, we might gather from the length and expense of this past race, is no small feat. You need both your plans and your exPcu­tion to work in tandem without miss­ing a beat of the national pulse. You need to build lasting connections with politicians and ordinary citizens across this country, a massive task even in its geographic scope. You need to research. to investigate, to under­stand and to grapple. You practically need an army. Heck, if you manage to get the job, you will need an army. 
On January 20. 2009, we've offered Barack Obama the chance to take that job. 
In a time of economic collapse and international tension, our democratic process, however long and toiling that proc-ess may be, has chosen this man to take his seat in the Oval Office. Maybe it was a feeling of trust. or confidence, or belief in his beliefs and his vision. Or maybe it was all threfl. But no matter what led us to the polling booth, and no matter whose box we checked for whose chad we punched), today. we're celebrating a beginning. 
On a side note, I wonder if my kids will ask me about the dav Obama became the President. (Note: In this scenario, I have extremely thoughtful and politically aware children.) If or when they do, I'm not sure what I'll say. I could tell them the details of the ceremony, or quote a memorable part of his inaugural speech. 
But will I be able to express the feel­ing'? The excitement and the anticipa­tion, blended together with some sense of hope in this crazy world? We'll have to wait and see. 
I hope you watched the Inauguration this morning. You may have class, work or something else that would normally be a legitimate use of your time. But I hope you set aside whatev­er commitments you may have had to watch at least part of what happened today. 
Because you -yes, you -are wit­nessing something extraordinary. It's rare that we get the opportunity to grab hold of history with our own two hands. Don't let ~t pass you by. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. \Y/e do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 00 YOU HAVE SPECIAL PLANS FOR THE INAUGURATION? 



Chris Massad 
junior Keenan 
"Join the Secret Service. .. 
Natalie Fang Robin Brown 
freshman sophomore Cauanaugh Lewis 
Tm missing "Does watching class to watch history in the it. " making count?" 

TOM LAffhe Observer 
Members of the Chicago Boyz Acrobatic Team perform a human jump rope routine· during halftime of the women's basketball game against St. John's Saturday. 
OFFBEAT 
Web site with "world's best job" crashes 
SYDNEY -The chance to be the caretaker of a tiny tropical island in Australia has sparked so much interest around the world that a rush of appli­cations crashPd the web­site advertising the post. 
The job, which ofl'ers a sala.ry of $105,000 to spend six months on the Great Barrier Heef island of Hamilton, has been inundated with hundreds of thousands of prospec­tive candidates. 
An official from the state of Queensland, which is ofl'ering the posi-
TODAY 

...... 
ct 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 25
.... 
LOW 8 
tion, said the job was cre­ated as an antidote to the global economit.: slump and was being advertised in 1H countries including the United States and China. 
Busty Virgin Mary's spark outrage 
SANTIAGO-A promi­nent fashion designer has sparked outrage in Chile by dressing up models like the Virgin Mary -in some cases with ample, near­naked breasts. 
The Roman Catholic Church condemned Hieardo Oyarzun's plans for a show featuring the models, and a con..'iervative group tried unsuccessfulJy to block it in eourt. 
Oyarzun said he had received telephone threats and had excrement smeared on his doorstep. 
"There is no pornogra­phy here, there's no sex, there are no virgins men­struating or feeling each other up," Oyarzun said ahead of the r.atwalk show set to be held at a Santiago nightclub later on Thursday. "This is artistic expression." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 



HIGH 10 HIGH 17 35 LOW -11 LOW 9 20 


Ying Liu 
senior Keenan 
"Take my shirt offin celebration." 

IN BRIEF 
Mass will be held in honor of Blessed Basil Moreau today at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The serviee is open to the public. 
Health and Hecreation will be having a Dance Kick-Off today at 6:15 p.m. at RSHC AR 2. Hegistration can be done via HecHegister. The class is open to students, fac­ulty, and staff. 
Campus Ministry is holding a panel discussion titled "Men in Black: Inspirations and Heflections" today at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. The panel will be made up of priests talking about their life and experiences in the priest­hood. · 
Tim Robbins will be giving a lecture called "Theater as Community" at 7 p.m. Wednesday in Leighton Concert Hall in Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be purchased online or through the ticket office for $5. 
Professor Mario Livio of Johns Hopkins University will be giving a lecture called "The Greatest Scientific Achievements of the Hubble Space Telescope" Wednesday at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
The Notre Dame Student Film Festival will be kick off Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema. Tickets for students are $3 and can be purchased online or at the ticket office. 
To submit information to be included in· this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an el'ent to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


·.·~···.··· 
:. . 
.· 

~ 
HIGH 33 HIGH 27 LOW 23 LOW 13 
Atlanta 41 I 24 Boston 35 I 19 Chicago 181 14 Denver 64 I 36 Houston 62 I 36 Los Angeles 80 I 50 Minneapolis 261 15 New York 30 /15 Philadelphia 31 I 17 Phoenix 82 I 52 Seattle 48 I 39 St. Louis 30 I 24 Tampa 57 I 35 Washington 31 I 18 
Tuesday, January 20, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CLC considers creation of a task force, host of other issues 
Student body president Bob Reish offers suggestions on alcohol policy, sexual assault, how to clarify off campus rules 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
The Campus Ufe Cow1cil (CLC) prepared for the new semester by discussing their ideas and the need for creating a new ta..'>k force at their first meeting of the semes­ter Monday. 
Student body president Bob Heish proposed three key issues that the committee might consider thi'> semester. 
Heish first discussed the idea of implementing a Good Samaritan Policy protecting intoxicated stu­dents from getting in trouble if they are helping someone who is hurt or sick from drinking. 
"A lot of other colleges are insti­tuting this policy in the past couple of years. I think Saint Mary's did last [semesterl which his some­thing to consider," said Reish. 
He also proposed an investiga­tion and assessment of the University's sexual assault policy. 
"Student government has received reactions to current practices, [and] a large percent of them have been negative," he said. "People feeling like they can't 
explain their story and they don't 
feel like they are treated fairly." 
CLC is aware that the Gender 
Issues committee of Student 
Government has already looked 
into the sexual assault policy and 
discussed whether it would be 
more effective to work with 
Student Government or to do 
something separately. 
Reish also said he wanted CLC 
to look at the role of off-campus 
students and off-campus life. 
Unda Cirillo, Lewis Hall's rector, 
specifically wants to look at how 
off-campus students express 
themselves to the University and 
how the University looks at off­
campus students. 

There is currently an off-cam­
pus senator on the Student Senate and there is an off-campus coun­cil, but Reish said the off-campus representation is not proportion­. ate to the number of students liv­
ing off-campus. 

Additionally, Heish proposed 
creating a set of rules for off-cam­
pus life that would determine the 
consequences of having an off­
campus party. DuLac states that all DuLac rules apply to off-cam­pus students, but Student Government has received com­plaints that there has not been precedence for punishment in cer­tain situations, said Reish. 
Student Body Vice President Grant Schmidt said the Good Samaritan Policy, the sexual assault policy and off-campus life are all issues that are "very sub­jective and you can't have hard concrete facts, [like l if you do x then you will get this dollar fine." 
Schmidt suggested that instead of specific rules, CLC should look at informing students so they know what the posf)ible conse­quences are for actions so that they aren't caught by surprise. 
Student Union Board Manager Meg MacCaughey suggested cre­ating a new task force that focuses on otT-campus life, but no defini­tive decision was reached. Each task force will meet to discuss the relevance of the three suggested issues and report back at the next meeting. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 





Poorman approves dorm printers resolution 
printers were put in as a part pus to reduce environmental that will review the orientation dents, said Reish.
By SARAH MERVOSH of a pilot program, and these impact," Poorman said in a let­process for transfer students The committee will be com­
News Writer 
printers have been "well­ter to Reish approving the reso­chaired by Brian Coughlin, the posed or students, rectors and 
received and used," according lution. assistant vice president for stu­administrative staff and will 
Student body president Bob to the resolution. In order to make sure such dent activities. • meet to review the transfer ori-_ Heish announced that Fr. Mark "It wasn't necessarily a need an increase does not occur, the The transfer student orienta­entation process. It is ex.pected Poorman, Vice President of but it was a significant conven­Office of Information tion puts "a tremendous focus to qring its assessment and rec­Student Affairs, approved the ience," said student body vice Technologies will monitor the on academics. But there was a ommendations to Poorman for Campus Life Council (CLC) res­president Grant Schmidt, citing paper use, the letter said. gap with the rest of the Notre approval by the end of April. olutions to put printers in every those who do not have easy "If they see a huge increase Dame community and the Although this resolution will dorm and to re-evahiate the access to Lafortune or in paper usage, that's going to transfers," said Meg not be as visible as printers in Transfer Student Orientation DeBartolo Hall and the crowds play a factor in possible quotas. MacCaughey, chair of the task every dorm, Reish said both process in the upcoming that are present at those loca­It goes along with our mission force on new student introduc­resolutions show "how some­semester at the CLC meeting tions. to stay green. If this becomes tion to Notre Dame. "We've thing can be brought to Student Monday. The resolution has been so much less sustainable, the been working to get a more Government's attention [and] 
"By the end of this summer, passed with the condition that university is going to take some cohesive Notre Dame communi­when worked through the cor­we will have printers in all the additional printers will not lead action," Heish said. tv." rect channels, it shows the residence halls" Reish said. to a significant increase in the Reish emphasized that this · There is no involvement from administrations listening to stu­"That is a very big accomplish­paper being used. warning will only be put into student affairs in transfer ori­dents and taking action." ment for our council." "Such an increase ... would action if students are wasteful. entation, which means no rec­
Currently, there are printers be counterproductive for the The second resolution calls tor involvement and no organ­Contact Sarah Mervosh at in 10 residence halls. The many efforts currently on cam-for the creation of a task force ized ways to meet other stu-smervosh@nd.edu 
Harsh -winter -weather causes pipe to burst 
By LIZ HARTER St. Mary's Editor 
Anyone working in or walking through the Main Building last Friday were in for an unpleasant surprise as a fire sprinkler water line pipe fell victim to the sub-zero temperatures outside. 
The -45 degree wind chill took its toll on a pipe on the ground floor, which froze and subse­quently burst around 5 p.m. Friday. 
"Water gushed from the pipe causing damage to the ceiling and soaking the carpet," said University spokesman and assis­tant vice president for news and information Dennis Brown. 
Brown said workers were able to cap the pipe and fix the fire sprinkler system by Friday night, but there is still a hole in the ceiling, which needs to be repaired. 
The area around the break will be examined by the utilities department this week to try to figure out how the cold air is getting into the building, Brown said. The University does not have a cost estimate of how 

PHClT0<3RA.PHE:RfThe Observer 

Frigid temperatures burst a pipe in the Main Building on Friday. 
much damage was done, but Brown said it was minimal. 
However, this is not the first time the cold weather took its toll on the pipes around campus. Water flooded the third floor of the Hesburgh Library to the basement after a pipe burst in Feb. 2007. That incident result­ed in the library closing for six hours and damaged approxi­mately 1,500 books on the sec­ond floor aecording to Observer archives. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND reflects on end of term 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
Most eyes in the nation will be on President-elect Barack Obama as he is sworn into office at noon today, but there are many who are using the inauguration as a chance to reflect on the pres­idency of the man who Will be former President George 
W. Bush by 1 p.m. 
Junior Edward Yap, presi­dent of the Notre Dame College Hepublicans is doing just that. 
"President Bush served his country with honor and integrity," Yap said. "While his decisions were not always pleasing to all people, or myself, he made them with the best interest of the coun­try ~t heart and with princi­ple. 
Josh Kaplan, the associate director of undergraduate studies in political science, is also looking back on Bush's presidency a11d said he saw potential in Bush that he did­n't fulfill. 
"Bush had a positive and far-reaching vision for the future of the Republican 
party," he said, "but was unable to move the party very far in that direction." 
Ilowever, that doesn't nec­essarily mean that Bush was unsuccessful in his presiden­cy, according to Christina Wolbrecht, an associate pro­fessor of political science at the University. 
"Success and failure are political judgment calls," she said. "It all depends on what you attribute to the President." 
Yap, however, thinks there are many things that can be considered a success in the past eight years. 
"President Bush's President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPfAH) has poured $18 billion .into Africa in an effort to increase the number of Africans on anti­retroviral drugs from just 50,000 [people] at the end of the Clinton presidency to 1.3 million as of 2007," Yap said. 
That doesn't mean that Bush's tenure was without fault, though, he said. 
''I'm still torn as to whether the war [in Iraq) was justified according to my understand­ing of a just war," he said. · 
Kaplan said he thinks 

Bush's form of politics can still be beneficial after he's gone. 
"His vision of 'compassion­ate conservatism' was gen­uine and thoughtful." he said. "The party could still learn from it." 
Wolbrecht said Bush's tenure in office will most likely be associated with "a shift of the place of the United States in the world," but it is still unclear what he will be remembered for. 
"We don't know yet what he'll be remembered for," said Wolbrecht. "Depends on what you focus on." 
Kaplan said he believes that the Iraqi War might have an impact on how Bush's presideney is remem­bered. 
"If Iraq becomes a more stable. country in the near future, his decisions will be judged more favorably," Kaplan said. "If not, history will judge him harshly for it, because he committed the United States to an open­ended involvement in Iraq with no end in sight." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
.-------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 20, 2009 
Bus 
continued from page 1 
Ohio State band played and the governor and the lieu­tenant governor were there as well as several congressmen. 

This is not her first time wit­nessing the transitien of power. Lowry and her parents came to the inaugurations in 2000 and 1996. 
"I think this one is definitely a lot more exciting, because I was able to vote in this elec­tion, so I had a sav in it," she said. "And I campaigned for Barack Obama." 
Lowry plans to wake up early, before 7 a.m., to walk over to her ticketed section. 

"I am really excited to see all the people that are sup­posed to he coming out for this, and to see how packed the mall \Viii be," she said. "Just to see the millions of common Americans that will be there." 
Notre Dame sophomore Ja&mine Williams will not need a hotel room or couch during her time in Washington. Along with about 50 others from Notre Dame, many of them members of the Africana club, Williams left campus at about 4 p.m. to drive through the night to get to the inauguration. 
"It's a huge opportunity to see history, something that's never happened before," she said. "It'll be cool to tell my grandkids these things." 
Most members of the club do not have tickets to the inaugu­ration', so they plan to line the parade route instead. 

Notre Dame senior Mallory Laurel had a ticket to the inauguration but did not arrive in Washington in time to pick it up. On Monday, long lines formed outside tlw House and Senate office buildings with people waiting to pick up tickets for inauguration. Laurel left Notre Dame on a bus organized by engineering professor Leo McWilliams shortly after 5 p.m. Monday, expecting to a1·rive at 6:30 
a.m. Tuesday. Laurel, who spoke to The Observer by phone, said she had not yet decided whether she would try to stand in the non-ticketed area of the National Mall to hear Ohama's inauguration speech, or whether she would try to stake out a position along the parade route. 
Laurel decided to make the trip -spending two consecu­tive nights on a bus -becausP she thinks the inauguration will be a once-in-a-lifetime event. 
"It's going to be an experi­ence. So many people are going who don't have tickets," she said. "The whole point is to show up and be there in community supporting the president-elect. 
"Oddly enough, I'm looking forward to the erowd," she said. 
About 50 people are on the same bus as Laurel coming from Notre Dame, most mem­bers of the Notre Dame chap­ter of the College Demoerats, but also some who just got word of the bus trip and want­ed to join, she said. 
Contact Kaitlytin Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



Oba01a 
continued from page 1 
sages to send to the troops overseas. 

Obama and his wife Michelle were among the 300 volunteers in attendance, comprised of members of volunteer organizations, members of the military, q,nd teachers and students from the high school. 
Finlen said the Obamas were very social with the other volunteers and stayed for about an hour. Vice presi­dent-elect Joe Bielen partici­pated as well, and brought 

doughnuts for sup­
"I think his campaign 
the organizers. port, especially After being really opened up our from the youth, 
stationed as a political system ... so and so many field organizer people who 
many people came
for two months were feeling 
in rural out to vote, we disenfran­chised."
Missouri, recruited millions of 
Fin len has "I think his
first-time voters." 
some interest­campaign real­ing stories ly opened up about Obama Shawn Finlen our political supporters and NO alum system ... so the campaign, many people
Class of 2008 
was not just a very enthusi­astic supporter not discour­aged by the high gas prices at the end of the summer, but someone hired by the campaign, Finlen said. 
A local politician "thought it was amazing," Finlen said and made him drive around for two more days, bringing his billboard that read "Vote Nov. 4" with pictures of Obama and Bielen to about eight more towns in the area. 
After seeing thousands of people flock to D.C. to wit­ness the historic inaugura­tion, Finlen said the Obama movement was successful 
because it was 
able "to gain 
so much 

d a y s , Perry said. "When we got here it  "Just talking to people and hearing what they have to say, and from what we know, this level  tell the D.C. lif­ers -they're just annoyed at the people invading their  
•  was fine, but now it's just out of con­ ofexcitement has not been this high for a long time."  city," Meehan said. Hegardless, everyone rec­ 
t  r  o I ,  "  ognizes  that  
Perry said. "You can tell every­ Patrick Brown sophomore  Washington is the center of the aetion, 

including the strange sight of a n Obama!Biden billboard truck rambling down two-lane country roads a few days before the election. 
"We were sitting in the office. about three days before the election and this truck pulls up in front of the office. and we're located about 45 minutes away from a major interstate, there are all these back-country roads. The truck is about 12 by 20 [feet] or something, just driv­ing around Missouri," he said. 
The driver. they found out, 

came out to 
vote, we 
recruited mil­lions of first-time voters," Finlen said. 
After the Inauguration ­the realization of hundreds of campaign employees' and volunteers' months of hard work -Finlen plans to get a job in D.C. He's currently looking at jobs on Capitol Hill and seeing what the Obama administration has available. 
"''m definitely going to stay engaged in politics," he said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


Progra01 
continued from page 1 

Obama was on the front of the menu. Everywhere -you ean't go anywhere and there's not Obama," junior Monika Perry said. 
The atmosphere has even shifted in the past 
hearing what they have to say. and from what we know, this level of excitement has not been this high for a long time," Patrick Brown, a sopho­more said. 
By the same token, the influx of millions of visitors does test the patience of some residents. 
"A lot of pf~ople seem pretty 
excited, but 
then you can 
exciting time no matter who won," Brown said. 
McDonnell agreed. 

"I know I wanted to do this program at some point and ... it's an exciting time," he said. 
Perry said that while she didn't even realize the inaugu­ration would take place while she was in Washington, she fully recognizes now how his­toric the experience is. 
"You know that your kids are going to ask you when they come back from 7th grade history or something." she said. 
It's dif11cult not to get swept up into the events, Meehan said, and forget the impor­tance of some events. 
"There's just so much going on at once that you're not going to lose the historical sense," he said. "I think as time goes by, even this semes­ter, we'II look back and realize how important this was." 
Brown said he expects that even after the inauguration wraps up Washington will still bn an exciting place. 
"It's not going to go away because .of the momentum he has, and what they're trying to do is inspiring a lot of action and counter-action from both sides. there's not a better time to be in D.C. that I can think of than during a new administra­Oon, a new leadership," Brown said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

day that you're on [the Metro]. there's more peo­ple, they don't know where they're going." 
The students in the program went to the "We Are One" con­cert on Sunday afternoon, an~l most will attend the im1ugura­tion ceremony Tuesday. 
Through their jobs in the dty they've taken in the pulse of Washington residents. 
"I think a lot of the people in my offiee are pretty excited just because of the exposure its getting," Steve Meehan, a junior, said. 
"Just talking to people and 
bound to attract people by the millions, Brown said. 
"This is the place to be right now, all the celebrities, all the notable dignitaries thny all want to be here right now," Brown said. 
Brown and MdJonnell said the inauguration did play a role in their decision to come to Washington this semestPr.. 
"I thought. 'Spring '09 'is going to be the inauguration, it's going to be a new adminis­tration, whoever wins,' and at that point we didn't even know who the nominees were, but I knew it was going to be an 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 20, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Australian author sent to prison 
BANGKOK -A few lines in a novel that sold just seven eopies have earned an Australian \vriter three years in a Thai prison. 
The eonvietion of Harry Nicolaides on Monday for insulting the monarchy is one of a recent flurry of such eases. underlining Thailand's sen­sitivity about how to safeguard the royal institu­tion when 81-year-old King Bhumibol Adulyadej -the world's longest-serving head of state ­passes from the scene. 
Nicolaides, 41, was sentenced for insulting lhe king and Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn in his self-published 2005 book "Verisimilitude," which he has said sold seven copies. 
Tension heightened in South Korea 
SEOUL -South Korea's hard-line president tapped a hawkish security expert to head the ministry in charge of relations with Pyongyang on Monday, a move bound to ratchet up already heightened tensions with the communist regime. 
Relations between the two Koreas, which fought a three-year war in the 1950s that ended in a shaky truce, have plummeted to their lowest point in a decade sinee President Lee Myung-bak took office a year ago. Pyongyang cut off ties and suspended key joint projects, and last weekend accused the South of plotting war. 
On Monday, the North's main Hodong Sillilllill newspaper reiterated the military's warning that it will respond to any South Korean aggres­sion with "one strike" capable of annihilation. 
"Thf:\ Lee Myung-bak group should bear in mind that our guns and bayonet.<; ... are aimed at theiJ· throat.s," the paper said in an editorial carried by the state-run Korean Central News Agency, warning that its threats are not "empty talk." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Crash investigation to take a year 
NEW YOHK -The probe into the crash­
landing of a US Airways jetliner will take a 
year, and the lessons learned from the spec­
tacular accident will last much longer, a sen­
ior investigator said Monday. 
"I think this one is going to be studied for 
df:\cades," said Hobert Benzon, chief investiga­
tor on the case for the National 
Transportation Safety Board. 
Benzon said the fact that all 155 people 
aboard the plane survived removes the guilt 
and fmger-pointing that sometilnes accompa­
ny aviation accidents. He said lessons learned 
from the successful ditching into the Hudson 
River could improve air safety. 

35 car pile up kills 2, injures a dozen 
MYEHSVILLE, Mel. -A pileup of 35 cars 
and five tractor-trailers on a snowy Maryland 
highway killed two people Monday and. seri­
ously il~jm·ed at least a dozen, state police said. 
Snow was at least partly to blame for the 
12:30 p.m. crash on Interstate 70 near South Mountain in northwestern Maryland, said State Police spokeswoman Elena Husso. An inch-and-a-half of snow quickly fell around the same time as the pileup. 
Twelve seriously injured people were taken to Washington County Hospital, Russo said. 
Jessica Granek, 21, of Columbia, was driving west with three friends to go skiing at Whitetail as visibility was getting worse from the snow, which left a slushy mess on the 
LOCAL NEWS 

Boiler explosion injures 2 at IWU 
MAHION, Ind.-A boiler explosion at Indiana Wesleyan University injured two mail1tenance workers. 
University officials say the explosion hap­pened about 8:30 a.m. Monday in the basement of the Center School building on the campus in Marion. 
University spokesman Alan Miller says employee Frederick Johnson is being treated at an Indianapolis hospital, but his burns are not considered life-threatening. The other worker, Michael Cooper, was treated at a local hospital and released. 
IRAQ 


New style of campaigning emerges 
Iraqi candidates answer a range of questions focused on grass-roots issues 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Candidates in this month's provincial elections are answering questions from voters and debating issues ranging from Baghdad's housing shortage to the need to attract foreign investment. 
This is the new style of campaigning in Iraq, where candidates feel safe enough to stump for votes and focus on grass-roots issues instead of the religious divi­sions and violence that overshadowed earlier dec­tions held after Saddam Hussein's regime was top­pled in 2003. 
The shift was evident at a weekend forum that brought together 13 candidates in the Jan. 31 election for provincial councils, includ­ing a communist, Shiites, Sunnis and a journalist who formed a party named after an Iraqi television show called "Let's Talk." 
As a waiter in traditional Arab clothing poured coffee at the gathering in a Baghdad country club, the moderator and people in the audience asked candidates how they would improve public services. 
They got one minute for each answer. And nobody was fazed when the power went out briefly -a com­mon occurrence in a coun­misrule. civil war. In those ballots, candidates for the 57 -seat try that still has severe elec­The field is crowded. people chose parties, often Baghdad provincial council. tricity shortages. There arf:\ 14,431 candi­with little idea who was "We believe that there is a 
Madiha al-Moussawi, a dates vying for a total of 444 running. dire need now to change candidate from a secular seats on councils in all but This time, hopefuls have Iraq's political map and its party, promised to encour­four of Iraq's 18 provinces. been trumpeting their pro­sectarian tendencies,'' Sabre age foreign investment to The electoral commission grams and handing out added. "The people do not help create jobs. says 75 percent of the par­cards at campaign rallies trust the current officials 
"Our goal is a better life ties and coalitions are new. and on walks through mar­and even do not trust each for Baghdad and respect for U.S. and Iraqi offieials are kets. One even organized a other. Our goal is to play a women," said Ayad Younis pinning their hopes on the soccer game in which the role in changing all that." of the main Sunni bloc. the fi1·st nationwide balloting in players worf:\ T-shi.rts with Colorful posters and ban­Iraqi Accordance Front. three years, looking for it to his picture on them. ners plaster overpasses. 
A new election rule allows unify ethnic and sectarian Qassim Hilail Sabre, a 47-bridges and light poles as Iraqis to vote for individuals groups. The goal is to bol­year-old aid worker with a well as the miles of concrete instead of only political par­ster local governments -a charity that helps poor peo­blast barriers dissecting the lies for the first time sinee key step in rebuilding the ple and orphans, is among Iraqi capital and other Saddam's ouster. That has war-ravaged country. the first-timers. cities. With less than two encouraged a number of Previous elections in 2005 "J deeided to take part in Wf:\eks to voting day, work­first-time candidates to join saw little public campaign­the elections to improve the ers were out putting up the race, hoping to persuade ing because of rampant vio­current situation, especially more posters this weekend voters to turn against politi­lence and sectarian rivalries the public services," said on whatever space cians widely criticized for that threatened Iraq with Sabre, one of about 3,000 remained. 

Salmonella outbreak causes recall 
been reealling products with peanut was recalling two flavors of snack 
Associated Press 

butter in them because of suspieion of bars: L\HABAH Peanut Butter Cookie 
MILWAUKEE -Kellogg Co. said contamination amid a salmonella out­snack bars and JamFrakas Peanut Monday federal authorities have con­break that has killed at least six peo­Butter Blisserisp snack bars. The com­firmed that salmonella was found in a ple and sickened more than 470 oth­pany said the recall affected 15,000 single package of its peanut butter ers in 43 states. At least 90 people cases and no illnesses have been crackers, as a Midwestern grocer have been hospitaHzed. reported. General Mills said the recall recalled some of its products beeause Also Monday, Midwestern groeer did not affect any other products it of the scare. and retailer Meijer lnc. said it was makes. 
Battle Creek, Micb.-based Kellogg recalling two types of crackers and It was not immediately clear how recalled 16 products last week two varieties of ice cream because of many packages of Kellogg crackers because of the possibility of salmonella the possibility of salmonella contami­had been tested, if more tests were contamil1ation. nation: Meijer brand Cheese and being made on other products or if 
The company said Monday that con­Peanut Butter and Toasty Peanut some bad already been found not to tamination was confirmed by the Food Butter sandvvicb crackers, and Peanut have salmonella, Kellogg spokes­and Drug Administration in a single Butter and Jelly and Peanut Butter woman Kris Charles said. A paekage of Austin Quality Foods Cup ice cream. spokesman for the FDA said the Toasty Crackers v.ith Peanut Butter. Golden Valley, Minn.-based General agency was not providing any new 
Food companies and retailers have Mills said Monday afternoon that it information Monday. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, January 20, 2009 
ND student reports sexual assault 
Observer StaffReport 

NDSP is investigating a sexual assault reported by a Notre Damestudent on Jan. 17. The assault occurred in a residence hall on 
Friday, Jan. 16 and was 
reported as committed by an acquaintance. 
Information about sexu­al assault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is avail­able at http://www. n dsp. nd. e d u and from the Office of 
the march began included Jacquitta Martin, LaQuay
March 

Boone and Adriana continued from page 1 Rodriguez. Kristle Hodges 
also led the group in marehing. He reflected on singing "Lift Every Voice how the concept of march­and Sing." ing was something that the Marchers lit their candles "new generation of people" outside of the student cen­
had "only 
r  e  a  d  
a  b  o u  t  
t  h  e  s  e  

marches." He also noted that yester­d a y ' s m a r c h happened on the eve of another monumen­tal event, the inau­guration 
0 f 
President­

ter and 
walked in a 
large group 
"We stand on the evening singing "We S h a l l
ofa new era ofhope. }'(m 
Overcome." 

are that new generation. I College 
hope you see with different President Carol Ann
eyes than I saw. I hope you 
Mooney
see clearer and.farther and 
then pre­
with more hope. " sented a .reflection to students.
Carol Ann Mooney 
She told 

College President 
studpnts she was going to give a bit 
elect Barack Obama. more of a personal reflec­
"One day we will not have tion than she llSually would to come together to march give, discussing the to make things right." he impending inauguration said. and the distrust that her 
Others who spoke before generation felt in the gov-Student Affairs at http :!los a .n d. e d u/he al th­safety/assault. 
To report a crime in progress, suspicious aetivity, fire, or medical emergency, eall 9-1-1 from any campus phone or NDSP at 631-5555. 
ernment. 
She said she had a "very vivid memory of the peo­ple's March on Washington." 
"They had a dream of America," she said, "They had a dream of a day when they w~uld ,be freer than ever before. 
She added that she hopes the current generation will be free of the cynicism that plagued her own genera­tion. 
"We stand on the evening of a new era of hope," she said, referring to the inau­guration. "You are that new generation. I hope you see with different eyes than I saw. I hope you see dear­er and farther and with more hope." 
Eight students and faculty performed a choral reading of King's Letter from a Birmingham Jail. 
The event concluded with prayer, scripture and song led by Campus Ministry. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 






Russia, Ukraine make deal 
Gas crisis ends after with Russian c01npany ordering deliveries to resume 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Russia and Ukraine pledged to restore natural gas supplies to Europe after signing deals Monday to end a bitter dis­pute that led to a chilling two-week cutoff of shipments. 
Europeans, who normally get about one-fifth of their gas from Russia via Ukrainian pipelines, anxiously awaited for the fuel to start flowing. 
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart Yulia Tymoshenko on Monday signed the documents at Putin's government head­quarters on the Moscow river. They resulted from an outline agreement they had clinched in late-night talks Sunday as heads of Russia's state-run natural gas monopoly Gazprom and the Ukraine's Naftogaz. 
"As a result of intensive and lengthy talks we have reached agreement on all issues concerning natural gas supply to Ukraine and its transit to Europe," Putin said. He said Gazprom had been instructed to resume ship­ments bound for Europe that had been halted since Jan. 7 as Moscow and Kiev argued over 2009 gas prices and alle­gations that Ukraine was stealing gas destined for Europe. 
Tymoshenko said the gas would be pumped toward Europe as soon as it enters the Ukrainian pipes. 
Early Tuesday, Gazprom chief Alexei Miller ordered the resumption of deliveries 

bound for Europe via Ukraine to begin at 10 a.m. (2 a.m. EST) Tuesday. 
In a directive issued before dawn, Miller told company officials to ensure the neigh­boring countries' pipeline sys­tems are synehronized to get the gas f1owing at the desig­nated time. 
Offieials said the restored gas shipments could take up to 36 hours to cross Ukraine, whieh is the size of France, and reach European cus­tomers. 
EU officials were taking a wait and see attitude. 
"We now need an indication of the precise time that gas deliveries will be resumed. Our monitors will verify when the gas actually starts to flow," the European Commission said. 
Europe gets about 20 per­cent of its total natural gas needs from Hussia via Ukrainian pipelines, and the cutoff hit hard at some coun­tries, such as Bulgaria and Slovakia, that .rely almost entirely on Russia for gas. In the Balkans and other east­ern European nations, the crisis has shut factories and left millions of people to shiv­er in unheated homes. 
The confrontation has deeply shaken Europeans' trust in both Russia and Ukraine as reliable energy suppliers -something each has repeatedly insisted it is, while blaming the other for the supply cutoff. 
More than 15 nations have been forced to scramble for alternative sources of energy. The dispute was further com­plicated by geopolitical strug­gles over Ukraine's future and over lucrative export routes for the energy riches of the former Soviet Union. 
Before dawn Sunday, Tymoshenko and Putin nego­tiated a preliminary deal for Ukraine to get gas with a 20 percent discount from this year's average European price, which Hussia says is $450 per 1,000 cubic meters. That would double the prieB Ukraine paid in 2008. 
However, natural gas prices for Europe are expected to fall sharply later this year, due to the reduction in oil prices. By midsummer, Ukraine could be paying as little as $150 for 1,000 cubic meters, said Ronald Smith, a strategist at Mosr.ow's Alfa Bank. 
Russia, meanwhile, will not have to pay Ukraine higher transit prices to use its pipelines this year. Putin said in 2010. Ukraine will have to pay full price for Hussian gas, and Hussia will pay market prices for transit. 
Tymoshenko said the deal would save Ukraine billions of dollars. But there was no cel­ebration in the camp of her political rival, President Viktor Yushchenko. 
Citing Monday's deal, Yushchenko's energy adviser Bohdan Sokolovsky said Ukraine will pay $360 per 1,000 eubie meters in the first quarter of this year, and then a lower price. He said the average price for 2009 should be $235-$240 -still a signif­icant increase from the $179.50 it paid last year. 
MLK 
continued from page 1 
from Nov. 17, 1957. 

In the excerpt, King warned that eivilization eould be plunged into destruction if no one had the sense to increase love in our world. 
Page acknowledged King's message of the transforma­tional power of love to forge peace and freedom. According to King, Page noted, "Love is the matrix erful oratory and said that it is especially important dur­ing this historic week to remember the higher calling to which King inspired peo­ple. 
Senior Alyssa Zamora, who delivered· a reading from Psalms during the prayer service, agreed. 
"I think it is very important to remember Martin Luther King and his vision, especial­ly this year with the inaugu­ration [Tuesday]. I think we are really seeing a fulfill­ment of King's vision." 
Sec{md-year graduate stu­
from which community is born." 

"I think it is very 
A focus of the 

important to
service was the connection remember Martin between what 
Luther King and his 
King said in his 

vision, especially this 
powerful orato­ry and his year with the actions, which 
inauguration
followed 

{Tuesday]. I think we
through on his words. are really seeing a 
"Martin fulfillment ofKing,s
Luther King 

vision.
had a spiritual­ity that was grounded in Alyssa Zamora fundamental 
NO senior 
truths with lived implica­

dent Danny Aij an agreed that it is important to honor the his­toric value that King had for the entire demographic of the country. 
"Today is a celebration of our entire community," Aijan said. "It is a testament to the progress of our cou n­try." 
Jenkins con­eluded the cer­emony by say­
tions,'' he said. 

University President Fr. John Jenkins echoed these sentiments in his own remarks. 
"The reason why we remember King and are inspired by King is that his life was consistent with his words," Jenkins said. "He didn't just live great speech­es, he lived the very words he called us to." 
Jenkins also noted the sig­nif'icance of honoring King on the eve of President-elect Obama's inauguration. 
He compared the two men's ability to deliver pow-

Moreau 
continued from page 1 

Notre Dame Theology depart­ment and director of the Institute for Church Life, said that beatification means that there is permission for a "public cult." 
Last year, a Mass and the con­ference "A Great Cloud of Witness: Saints in the Catholic Tradition" celebrated the feast day, according to Observer archives. 
This year, the celebration began with prayer vigil service in the Lady Chapel of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart last night. 
"The idea was to try to keep some tradition going associated with his feast day each year," Cavadini said. 
Today, Father David Tyson provincial superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, will preside at a Mass that will take place in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5:15p.m. 
Along with the Mass, a panel discussion entitled "Men in Black: Holy Cross Stories" will take place at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall, according to a press release. 
Different religious congrega­tions have their own spirituality and approaeh, Cavadini said, 
ing the strength of King's messages came from the faet that King did not always tell people what they wanted to hear, but rather eaiJed peo­ple to something higher. 
"The power of King's ora­tory was to call us to moral goodness and away from our own selfish interests," he said. "As we go forth we can remember King's power to connect what he said and did in his life. We can strive to better our lives to this high­er calling.·· 
Contact Liz Lefevbre at elefevbr@nd.edu 

and Moreau's feast day allows for re11eetion on what would be a particularly Holy Cross approach. 
Panelists will be "reflecting on their vocation to Holy Cross," he said. 
During the event, audience members will be able to listen to the speakers' presentations and will have the opportunity to ask questions. 
"People will get a sense that they are not just priests," Cavadini said. "They are priests in a particular congregation of Holy Cross and [people will get the sense of! what that means to them." 
Cavadini will also deliver the inaugural Blessed Basil Moreau Lecture on Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The lectureship is a way to "commemorate the feast day with an academic event," Cavadini said. 
All of celebrations throughout the week are designed to pro­voke thought about Moreau and his values. 
'The idea is not just to com­memorate Basil Moreau and his ideals, but to develop them, to help our community think about how those ideals take root here now," Cavadini said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 





Tuesday, January 20, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,281.22 +68.73 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,499 112 1,276 2,601,747,646 
!:-:1lilli!l,\tlltlt•TI~Iiiltlillllllll!lilllll!lll~ 
NASDAQ 1 529.33 +17.49 
i'NYSE':Ii~l\,l\11~········ .. ·saltllllllllliii~IIB 
S&P 500 850.12 +6.38 NIKKEI (TC)kjb). ····. ·· :$,10I¢ii11illlJ'ffi.il~~~~~ FTSE 100 (London) 4,108.47 -38.59 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) ·13.70 ·1.14 7.18 CITIGROUP (C} -8.62 -0.33 3.50 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.78 +0.66 85.06 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -3.01 -0.30 9.68 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +4.68 +0.103 2.304 13-WEEK BILl: +15.00 +0.G15 0.115 30-YEAR BOND +1.05 +0.030 2.894 S·YEAR NOTE +6.46 +0.088 1.451 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.21 36.30 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +32.60 839.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.48 83.33 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 90.4000 
EURO 1.3086 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2566 BRffiSH POUND 1.4455 
IN BRIEF 
Hedge fund manaf!er missing 
SAHASOTA, Fla. -Federafinvestigators are still trying to figure out what happened to the operator of a massive hedge fund -and possibly millions of dollars managed by the missing man. 
Seventy-five-year-old Arthur G. Nadel was reported missing by family members Wednesday. Pollee say he seemed "very distraught" in a note tell for his family. His car was found Thursday in an airport parking lot. 
lt remains unciear exactly how much money had been invested or how mueh was missing, though one investor has said the fund was worth as much as $350 million. 
Sarasota Police have received at least seven complaints from investors. Some say they lost more than $700.000. 
Lo1~al authorities are working with the FBI and the Securities and Exchange Connnission to find Nadel. 
European stock markets plunge 
LONDON -European stock markets fell Monday with hanks in free fall as investors fretted over a second British government bailout of the sector in three months and some predicted that cash-strapped Hoyal Bank of Scotland Group PLC would end up fully nation­alized. 
Europe's early gains were erased as the investors were spooked by fears that the British government's latest move was a step toward full nationalization of one or more banks, and that other governments will have to step in to save their leading banks. 
Germany's DAX closed down 50.14 points, or 
1.2 percent, at 4,316.14, while France's CAC­40 fell 27.06 points, or 0.9 percent, at 2,989.69. 
Most attention was on the FTSE 100 index of leading British shares, which was down 38.59 points, or 0.9 percent, at 4.108.47, even though the British government said it would be creating a progam to insure bank loans in the hope that the banks will start lending again. 
Any hopes that the government had that the announcement would ease the stock market pressures on the banks evaporated as they suffered another day of frenzied selling. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Russia, Ukraine restore gas supply 
Europe to recieve natural gas again after a two-week cutoff of shipments 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -Russia and 
Ukraine pledg~d to restore 
natural gas supplies to 
Europe after signing deals 
Monday to end a bitter dis­
pute that led to a chilling 
two-week cutoff of ship­
ments. 

Europeans, who normally 
get about one-fifth of their 
gas from Russia via 
Ukrainian pipelines, anx­
iously awaited for the fuel 
to start flowing. 

Russian Prime Minister 
Vladimir Putin and his 
Ukrainian counterpart 
Yulia Tymoshenko signed 
the documents at Putin's 
government headquarters 
on the Moscow river. They 
resulted from an outline 
agreement they had 
clinched in late-night talks 
Sunday as heads of 
Russia's slate-run natural 
gas monopoly Gazprom and 
the Ukraine's Naftogaz. , 
"As a result of intensive 
and lengthy talks we have 
reached agreement on all 
issues coneerning natural 
gas supply to Ukraine and 
its transit to Europe," Putin 
said. He said Gazprom had 
been instructed to resume 
shipments bound for 
Europe that had been halt­
ed sinee Jan. 7 as Moscow 
and Kiev argued over 2009 
gas priees and allegations 
that Ukraine was stealing 
gas destined for Europe. 
Tymoshenko said the gas 
would be pumped toward Europe gets about 20 other for the supply cutoff. Ukraine paid in 2008. 
Europe as soon as it enters pen~ent of its total natural More than 15 nations However, natural gas 
the Ukrainian pipes. But gas needs from Russia via have been forced to scram­prices for Europe are 
neither offieial said exactly Ukrainian pipelines, and ble for alternative sources expected to fall sharply 
when the gas would begiiJ. the eutoff hit. hard at some of energy. The dispute was later this year, due to the 
flowing. countries, such as Bulgaria further complicated by reduction in oil prices. By 
Officials said the restored and Slovakia. that rely geopolitical struggles over midsummer, Ukraine could 
gas shipments could take almost entirely on Russia Ukraine's future and over be paying as little as $150 
up to 36 hours to cross for gas. In the Balkans and lucrative export routes for for 1.000 cubic meters. 
Ukraine, ~hich is the size other eastern European the energy riches of the said Honald Smith. a 
of France, and reach nations, the crisis has shut former Soviet Union. strategist at Moscow's Alfa 
European customers. factories and left i:nillions Before dawn Sunday, Bank. 
EU ofiicials were taking a of people to shiver in Tymoshenko and Putin Russia, meanwhile, will 
wait and see attitude. unheated homes. negotiated a preliminary not have to .pay Ukraine 
"We now need an indica­The confrontation has deal for Ukraine to get gas higher transit prices to usc 
tion of the precise time that deeply shaken Europeans' with a 20 percent discount its pipelines this year. Putin 
gas deliveries will be trust in both Russia and from this year's average said in 2010, Ukraine will 
resumed. Our monitors will Ukraine as reliable energy European price, which have to pay full price for 
verify when the gas actual­suppliers -something Russia says is $450 per Russian gas, and Russia 
ly starts to fiow," the each has repeatedly insist­1,000 cubic meters. That will pay market priees for 
European Commission said. ed it is, while blaming the would double the price transit. 

Rescue planfor British banks unveiled 
Associated Press RBS said its losses for the full year create a special fund for the Bank of could be as much as 28 billion pounds England to buy high quality loans and 
LONDON -Britain announced a ($41.3 billion), which would be the other assets directly from banks. That second rescue plan for the country's biggest loss ever by a British corpora­plan is also aimed at bringing down ailing banks on Monday, hoping to tion. borrowing costs. thaw frozen lending by offering to Prime Minister Gordon Brown said Britain's Treasury said preeise insure banks against large-scale losses on Monday that the government has details of the asset purchase progrmil on bad assets they already hold. increased its stake in RBS to almost 70 would be finalized later this month. 
Stock investors, however, were percent, but declined to say whether Both Treasury chief Alistair Darling spooked hy fears that the second bank he believed the bank will eventually be and Brown acknowledged that rescue plan in three months was a fully nationalized. The government October's pledge of 37 billion pmmds step toward full nationalization of one took a stake under a first round of (about $55 billion) to bail out Britain's or more banks. Fears focused on the bailouts late last year. banks hadn't done enough to encour­Royal Bank of Scotland, which dis­Announcing the new rescue pack­age them to resume normal lending dosed that it is likely to report a age, Brown said the government volume. record full-year loss -its shares would offer to insure banks against "lftood businesses must have access closed down 67 percent. default on toxic loans in exchange in to credit, jobs should not be lost need­
"There is a great deal of uncertainty. return for a fee and legally binding lessly," Brown told reporters at his There seems to be some concern doing commitments to make credit more Downing Street oflice. He said stimu­
-the rounds that the group vv:ill be total­available to British businesses and lating lending is vital to spark .Britain's ly nationalized sometime in the near home buyers. economy and to limit job losses as future," said Keith Bowman, analyst at Brown's plan will also see 50 billion Britain tackles a recession prompted Hargreaves Lansdown stockbrokers. pounds (about $74 billion) set-aside to by the global downturn. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, January 20, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Nothing to fear but fear itself 
P.O. Box 779, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR lN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler A.•;s"J: MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NhWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
0FFICE.MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (57·1} 631-7471 
FAX 

(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu ElliTOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 oh~me@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@)nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe University of Noue Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrimrion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is rt·porred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Edirors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presmt the viev.-s of the authors. and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcrters is encouraged. Lerters ro the Editor must be signed and must include conraa information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies .rhould be directed to Editor in ChirfCinis /line. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'J lw OllSl1"Vcr (USPS 5991---4000) i:l! puhli~lu'tl Mumby lluough FritLtf excc:pt during (:Um ~Hd Vll.<>Jiillll period~.,, ~uhscriptinn til T'h<! oh~t\'Cf i.'l $tOn !i:lronc ttntdcmk yrar; $')S for {lllt'!l~'lllt"Stcr. 
The Observe is publimed at: PO>'TMASTER {l~•i Sooch Dining H:ill Send addre~s ..:orrections oo; Notre Darnt. I~ 46-;56-1)779 TheObsen<er P.:riodiColl postag< paid ar Nom~ Dame P.O.&x779 and o1dditionai mailingoftkcs. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte D.unc, J!\ 46'556--077') 
'!'he Oh..e1vet is;.~ mt:m~r ofrhe A:>!ioci.ated Pros. All reproduction tighr.s are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Liz Harter Fran Tolan Robert Singer Bill Brink Liz O'Donnell Mike Gotimer 
Graphics Scene Madeline Nies Jess Sh,ztffer 
Viewpoint 
Lauren 
Brauweiler 

Last week I visited the National Archives in Washington, D.C., a building that houses the most treasured historical documents of the United States govern­ment, induding the original copies of the Dedaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights. Seeing these docu­menL<:> for the first time, after 21 years of living in the nation con­ceived in the ideals of their revered authors and born from the words carefully pre­served in ink upon their surfaces, was a deeply moving experiencP fur me, one that I will not soon forget. 
When we take a look back through our nation's history, however, it becomes !Wi­dent that many AmPricans have forgotten 
_the principles that are enshrined by these faded pages of parchment. Perhaps the most sacred among these principlPs is the preservation of individual liberty through limited government. What the Founders feared above all was a distant, powerful, centralized goverrnnent, and they took gn~at care to ensure that the institutions that replaeed the British crown would not revert baek to the tyram1y exemplified by thPir predecessor. In fael., their first attempt at establishing a government through the Articles of Confederation. while upholding statps' righL'l and individ­ual liberty, eventually proved too weak to enable the fledgling nation to survive. By writing the Constitution that endures today, the Founders managed to balance the need for more robust institutions with thei1· desire to secure the freedom of its people. 
Yet since the days of the Founding, the federal government has bPen allowed, at times even encouraged, to grow exponen-tially while interfering in aspm:ts of our daily lives that the Founders never intendnd. At the best of times, the expan­sion of the government at the expense of liberty is so gradual, so craftily disguised, that its nfli.1eL'l only beeonu~discernable with the clarity of hindsight. In times of crisis, however, mass hysteria and Hw desire for comfort enables the govern­ment, with the people's blessing.-to take unpreepdentnd measures that forewr broaden its rnalm of authority. 

Thomas Jell'Prson warned of tllis possi­ble developmm1t, stating, "the true theory of our Constitution is surely the wisest and best ... !fori when alt'government . .. shall be drawn to Washington as t.ltP centre of all power, it will render power­less the cheeks provided of one govern­ment on another. and will become as ... oppressive as the government from which we separated." Indeed, we now have a govPrnnwnt that more closely resembles the British monarchy, wielding its tremendous power from afar over the increasingly-wPakfmed states and individ­uals, than thn government of limited authoritv that the Founders envisioned. 
As anyonP who has st.udiPd American history (:an allirm, three of the most basic elements that the Founders \>Vrote irito thP Constitution to oblige the limitation of government include the notions of the separation of powers, federalism, and ehecks and balances. Yet today, instead of separation of powers, we have aetivist judges rewriting legislation to suit their own political belief's, and legislators try­ing to eonduet warfare based on popular sentiment. Instead of federalism, we have the national government rPaching beyond its enumerated powers and interfering in affairs that, according to the Tenth · AmendmPnt, should be left to the individ­ual states. And instead of checks and bal­ances, we have a newly-inaUf:,'llrated president whose party holds overwhelm­ing majorities in both Houses of Congress, making him more of a prin1e millister than the leader of an indepfmdent execu­tive branch. 
Furthermore. and perhaps most unset­tling to defenders of liberty, our new pres­ident and the party he leads insist that all of the nation's problems can be solved as long as people put their faith in govern­ment. Universal healthcare, "tax cuts" meant to redistribute wealth: opposition to the privatization of social security, spending billions on a green-energy plan. and the like are all examples of how he plans to use the goverl)ment to solve the nation's problems. And though his goals may seem worthy, his methods contradict the core prineiplPs of the Constitution. For all his talk of hope, he sure has very little in the American people. 
At this moment, our nation is facing a crisis that. though dissimilar in magni­tude to the Civil War or the Great Depression. nonetheless instills Amerieans with fear. This fear is a power­ful tool that the federal government can capitalize on in its desire to become more expansive, more powerful, and more dan­gerous to liberty than the Founders could have ever imagined. A leader, Pspecially one as charismatic as Obama, can make government intervention seem like the only method of dealing \\ith crisis and assuaging the fimr. Yet this fear, like Franklin Hoosevelt once declared (ironi­eally while presiding over one of the most egregious expansions of the federal gov­ernment in American history), is the only thing we have to fear, for it cloaks the vio­lation of liberty in terms t}J.at make it seem palatable, even necessary, to those who claim to defend it. 
If we are to remain true to the princi­ples of the Founding. it is imperative that we look beyond our immediate concerns and take great care to avoid falling prey to the temptation of relying on govern­ment, rather than the pPople, to ensure national prosperity. 
Christie Pesavento is a junior and can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Obserz,.er. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What a grand thing, to be loved! What a grander thing still, to love!" 
Victor Hugo French dramatist, novelist, & poet 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Sometimes the measure of friendship isn't your ability to not 'harm but your capacity to]orgille the things done to you and ask forgiveness for your own mistakes." 

U-WIRE 
Obanta's inauguration is a proud ntontent~for all 
For a couple of weeks now, friends and other people whom I unfortunately know, have joked around with me, asking how much I was looking forward to the upcoming inauguration. I am not going to lie -I have kind of been in a funk. All of the hype about it has gotten to me, and the multiple Facebook invites to speech-watching events and prayer services have not helped either. Even the red, white and blue coffee sleeves at Starbucks have contributed to my depression. Editorial Board 
Politically, conservatives and me alike may be frus­trated by the results of the election and what we have 
Vanderbilt 
to look forward to for the next four years. It would be inexcusable, though, to let petty politics get in the way 
Vanderbilt
of one of our country's greatest achievements. Jan. 20 
Hustler
will be a historic day and perhaps the most important day America will see during our lifetimes. We will see our country's first black president take office. 
Just think about it! Think about how far our country has come in the last 100 years. The path toward ridding our eountry of the regrettable prejudice and bigotry that has haunted it for so long has caused years of pain and frustration to go unnoticed. While we still have a long way to go, the inau­guration of President-elect Barack Obama will be perhaps the biggest step our country has taken. 
Throughout his trip to Washington, D.C., Obama has taken lines from both Abraham Lincoln and Martin Luther King Jr., symbolizing both the impor­tance and the value of his inauguration. While the U.S. would never be where it is today without the guidance of these spectacular men, Obama has done something even greater. He did not achieve the presidency alone but with the help and support of Amerieans. This is not just Obama's achieve­ment and not just the achievement of one race -this is an ~chievement for the American people. 
This all may sound way too annoyingly idealistic, but there is really no other way to describe what will happen in Washington tomorrow. People will take their minds off of the economy, the war and even their worries about the future. Guantanamo Bay inmates will be there Wednesday (hope­fully), pro-lifers will still have the Freedom of Choice Act to worry about and conservative talk show hosts ean complain about the estimated $150 million price tag on Obama's inauguration gala for the rest of the week. Jan. 20 will be a sacred day, and we should all work to keep it that way. 
Tomorrow, those who are caught up in the hope and t;hange the Obama presidency will bring about and those who are unsure about the next four years should join together in wonder and amazement of what this country has just achieved. We have many changes to look forward to (or to dread), and there are still many problems yet to be revealed. Let's try to forget about those tomorrow and just soak in the day's historic importance. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 18 edition of the Vanderbilt Hustler, the daily paper ofVanderbilt. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
. 

Take titne to retnetnber King's legacy 
I assume everyone realizes why Martin Luther King Jr. had a day dedicated to his memory, but I know for certain this weekend will spark more shouts of, "Sunday fun day!" than of the more appropriate, "VVbere the hell would we be without that guy'?" 
I'm a white kid, I'm not religious and J grew up in the 1990s, not the 1960s. I don't know mueh about Ken Kesey and "Furthur;" the only Magic School Bus I know about was driven by a cartoon rendition of Kathy Griffin named Ms. Frizzle. Editorial Board 
I know about Iraq, Kuwait, Afghanistan and Kosovo. All I know about Vietnam I learned from history class and Forrest University of Gump. 
Florida

Overlooking a life lost 30 years ago is more convenient than somberly remembering the deeds of a national hero two gen­
Independent

erations removed. Convenience eannot lead to forgetfulness. 
Florida

Where would the United States be today if King had not 
Alligator

brazenly stuck his neck out for the good of his people'? 
It's a question no one can answer, but thankf\IIly, no one has to. At some point this weekend, dedicate a fraction of your time to recognizing the tri­umphs of a movement led by the will and the virtue of one man. 
King was a black man who campaigned for the civil rights, of all people, not just people of his race. Civil rights apply to everyone, regardless of skin color. King wanted all people to do the right thing, not just whites. 
He favored Sivil disobedience over the take-by-foree mentality of Maleolm X. King's words-over-weapons approach allowed him to gain the favor of white Americans­stamping his signature on the civil rights movement. His in1passioned speeches and peaeeful policies gained him the national attention necessary to create enough aware­ness to reinforce his cause. 
Consciousness snowballed into an avalanehe of furious discontent that overtook the nation. The nation's reaction ignited a glorious change in government and American society. Such ehange garnered by King's efl'orts (not to discredit the thousands of other faces of the 1960s civil rights movement) was something Americans eould believe in. 
Sound familiar'? There shouldn't be a person on the UF eampus who is able to conscientiously ignore the power of King's voice and the effects of hiS policies. 
President-elect Barack Obama has become the face of American politics in the past two years. Would his rise have been possible without the work of King and the rest of the civil rights movement'? Ifnot for King's leadership back then, would we even be able to envision a black president now'? 
Fortunately, our generation doesn't have to consider these possibilities. Instead, we have been blessed with the opportunity to witness the fruits of King's labor. 
Upon learning of threats made on his life in 1964, King responded, "If physieal death is the price that I must pay to free my white brothers and sisters from a perma­nent death of the spirit, then nothing can be more redemptive." 
King struggled for everyone, and his triumph is shared by all. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 15 edition of the Independent Florida Alligator. the daily paper of the Uniz.,ersity ofFlorida. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 

Writer Eric Roth's loose adaptation of F. Scott Fitzgerald's wildly imaginative short story, "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button", is a grand epic that sees its star. Brad Pitt, give the hands-.down best per­formance of his career. 
Director David Fincher's keen directing not only captures but expands on the won­der of Fitzgerald's story. Yet the true suc­cess here is the life both Fincher and Pitt breathe into the film's title character, the backwards-aging Benjamin Button. 
Told from a hospital room where Benjamin's old love interest, Daisy (Cate Blanchett), is dying, Benjamin's. sweeping story begins with a tale about a once­famous clockmaker whose grand creation turns out to be a clock that is only capable of working backwards. He explains that his son was killed in WWI and that the dock is an expression of his desire that time may run backwards so that his boy would, come back to him. This opening introduces the film's obsession with time running back­ward. Man's desire to cheat death and hold onto the love in his life is contrastPd with the passing of all things. 
Benjamin is born a decrepit baby who quickly grows into a failing man in his 80's with poor eyesight, arthritis, and a rasp, aged voice. His father (Jason Flemyng). shocked bv the birth, abandons the child, and leave·s him on a doorstep, where a maternal black woman, Queenie (Taraji P. Benson) takes him in and raises him as her own. He soon adapts to life growing up among the old. forgotten people who also inhabit the home, until one day. he meets a young girl, Daisy, who SfH~s past his condi­tion and all the way to the core of his youthfulness. 
Although many obstacles separate the two star-crossed lovers, such as Benjamin's servicP in WWII, his affair with an English spy's wife (Tilda Swinton), and Daisy's pur­suit of a career in ballet, Benjamin and Daisy inevitably find each other in the mid­dle of their respective lives. But just as time unites them, so it undoes them. Yet the love remains. even until the very end, when Daisy,· old but still able, takes can~ of an infant-looking Benjamin, until his eyes situ­ply close, and his journey has ended. 


Benjamin, as portrayed in old age by the film's talented CGI team, and by Pitt throughout the rest of the film, is a beauti­fully poignant eharaeter who stands as a hymn to life's many angles, all of which are as much mysterious as they are grand. 
Although it's a tad too long, at 166-min­utes, "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" is a roaring erowd-pleaser. Fincher and Roth somehow manage to adapt this imaginative piece and expound on it by shooting it ~rough ro,manee-infused veins. Whereas Fitzgerald's story is driven by the premise of a child born under eurious cir­cumstances, the true success here is that the movie pushes his condition to the back­seat and instead focuses on the curiosities that are life, death. and love. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu. 
Wos.the first be twice no

The Curious Case of 
11Sexiest Mon Aliv

Benjamin Button 
'1People Mogoz*

Directed by: David Fincher 
IQyoto Altis ods'1!'
1994 and'-­

Starring : Brad Pitt, Cate 
actor were banned in 

Blanchett, Jason Flemyng, and after tbe country's dep 
lilda Swinton information minister rul 
Pi1trshondsome oppen 
would make Maloy • 
men feelt 

In the short scene''fllJifight 
Club" when Brad Pi d 
Edward Norton ore dru ly 
hitting golf bolls, both 

are actually drunk on ing 
balls ofthe cot truck. 
While on product · Rome The wig Brad"Pifl;, 
Brod PiH and George ( caught ip fhe rain while
110ceonls Eleven,, 
and were not allowed b

Mike Meyer's rehe 
the hotel because the 

wig for "Austin P . rs: 
thought theywar lnternotionai''M~n of 

By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
Once in a blue moon, a film comes around that is so profound, so beautiful -yet also so tragic and so close to the heart-that, during the end credits, you sit motion­less, entranced, gazing at the dark screen while the rest of the audience shuffles out of the theater. 
"The Wrestler" is one such film. 
Acclaimed director Darren Aronofsky's depicts the arresting story about an over­the-hill wrestler who is trying to mount a comeback both out and inside the ring ­the only place he's ever truly been alive. The film operates in a weirdly poetic way, becoming a sort of beautiful requiem. 
Mickey Rourke plays Randy "The Ram" Robinson, a wrestler who was once on top of the sport. At one time headlining events across the country's biggest stages, he now remembers those days as nothing more than a distant life. 
The film begins with Randy panting in the corner of an elementary school class­room after having just fought a match in front of a handful of spectators in the school's gymnasium. Brilliantly placed right after an opening montage of his past suc­cesses, the f11m's first few scenes show just how far Randy has fallen from the top. But his struggle isn't one of an ex-star who had it all, lost it all, and now wants it back. Instead, it's the struggle of a human being with a dream. He's a man who once seem­ingly had it all, a man who had always lived in the ring. He's without t.he sort of love and compassion that transcends the cheers of fans and temporary fame. He's a man who, loved by society while he was on top, is cast aside once his fifteen minutes were up. Ultimately, he was left numb and unable to experience life outside of the ring. 
It's the relationships that shape this film; those between Randy; his love interest, an outcast stripper tMarissa Tomei); his daughter (Evan Rachel Wood}, who he aban­doned to pursuP a wrestling career; and his diehard fans who follow him into exile. Additionally, the stability that eludes Randy defines the film. Aronofsky's directing and the cast's performances, all of which are nomination-worthy, elevate Randy's story into something worthy of chHers and tears. 
Mickey Rourke and the role of Randy were made for each other. An actor who was once a headlining star atop the film industry has since become a Hollywood reject who plays supporting roles in straight-to-video films. He was Randy "The Ram" in every sense. and "The Wrestler" is his comeback. 
Make no mistake: this is the resurrection of a gifted actor. Rourke's performance is not only award-worthy, but so immaculate, that it is worthy of bPing placed alongside the great screen performances of all-time, Credit is also due to Aronofsky, who had the gumption to put his career on the line to give Hourke the chance to shine once again. ­
That isn't his only success though. Aronofsky is praise-vvorthy in his own right for 
in bipartisanship, maintaining friendships with prominentDECLAN DRUMM SULLIVAN Republicans and Libertarians such as Clint Eastwood and thP Scene Writer late Jack Valenti. 
One of the most respected Hollywood actors both on and off Although Hobbins has found success with his film career, he the screen, Tim Robbins is at times almost as well known for his still has a passion for acting. He is currently thP Artistic: Director roles in political campaigns as he is for his roles in film. Born in of the Actors' Gang, the theatre group he formed more than 1958. Robbins was raised in Greenwich Village while his father twenty-five years ago. Hobbins' work as a playwright has been -a member of the mildly successful folk music group The produced in London, Paris, New York, Chicago. Los Angeles and Highwaymen -pursued a musical career. He went to film Edinburgh, Scotland. His latest play, "Embedded," has been in school at UCLA. and after he graduated in 1981. he formed the production in Paris, Chicago and Tampa Bay, Fla. He is currently experimental theatre group, the Actors' Gang. working on "1984," a stage adaptation of the elassic George 
After taking several bit rolf~s in films, Robbins came to Orwell novel that he directs. prominence in 1988 with his supporting role in the clas­?p.m. Hobbins and the Actors' Gang are bringing this pro­sic baseball flick "Bull Durham" as Ebby Calvin "Nuke" duction to Notre Dame this week. In what Robbins calls
Wednesday,
LaLoosh, the rookie pitcher with a blazing fastball. He a "very visceral, real experience for the audience," achieved critical acclaim for the 1994 film "Shawshank 11zursday and "1984" is a biting commentary on the world today. Redemption," in which he played framed-con Andy friday, Robbins is a heavy advocate for free speech, and saysDufresne, and 1995's "Dead Man Walking," which he that his production does much to emphasize the impor­
2p.m.&
directed. tance of this right we so often take for granted. 
He has played a variety of roles since, ranging from ?:JO p.m. "Freedom of speech is like a muscle-if you don't use comedies with fellow Actors' Gang members -"High Saturday it, it atrophies. So, if you're in a situation where you can Fidelity" with John Cusack in 2000 and "Tenacious D say something about what you care about, to not say it and the Pick of Destiny" with Kyle Gass and Jack Black in 2006 is more harmful than to say it," he said. 
-to his Academy Award-winning performance in 2003's The day before the start of this production, Robbins will be "Mystic River. "He remains active in Hollywood today with a role giving a lecture at the Leighton Concert Hall on his career. the in the sequel to 2008's "Iron Man" as Howard Stark, Tony "1984" production, and his views of the current statP of democ­Stark's father. racy. For only five dollars, this is an excellent chance to listen to Off-screen. he is known for his leftist political views. charac­one of the most respected actors in Hollywood. The lecture is at terized by his frequent criticisms of former President George W. 7 p.m. on Wednesday. and thfl play is on Thursday and Friday at 
Bush and his support of Ralph Nader and John Edwards in the 7 p.m. and Saturday at both 2 p.m. and 7:30p.m.
2000 and 2008 elections. respectively. He is an excellent orator. 
and often gives speeches for causes and political ideologies that Contact Declan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu.
he supports. Despite his liberal beliefs, however, he still believes 
I Observer Graphic 

but a great deal more difficult for a director, much less one of Aronofsky's silk, to edit himself. Yet he resists his usual impulse for flair directing and camera trickery,. and instead trusts his actors enough to let them anchor the film, which ultimately pays off. By leaving the film to unfold on its own, Aronofsky is put into the position of being a minimalist director at the helm of an equally minimalist, but immensely powerful film. 
It could be said that "The Wrestler" is one of those rare films that will at once unnerve and sooth you, making you glow with delight for the film's underdog one sec­ond, only to cry the very next as the film treks down its inevitably tragic path. It could be called· a life-affirming story that's so piercing and meaningful, it's nothing less than a beautifully meditated hymn to life. Or one could simply call it a mastPrpieeP of the highest order, and be done with it. .But no way of putting this film into words can ever do it justice. 
"The Wrestler" can only be described by the feeling you get when the screen cuts to black and Bruce Springsteen's original song, "The Wrestler," begins to play in the background. It's an indelible feeling that what you've just witnessed is more than the triumphant comPback of a fine actor, more than thE' year's best picture, and a great deal more than a film. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
The Wrestler 

Directed by: Darren Aronofsky Starring : Mickey Rourke, Marissa Tomei; Evan Rachel Wood 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Titesday, January 20, 2009 
NBA 
Nowitzki's ·buzzer-beater ends Philly's streak 
76ers' seven-game winning streak snapped; Ming scores 31 points, Alston adds 18 in Houston's win over Denver 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA Dirk Nowitzki carne through when it mattered. 
Despite missing 13 of his first 14 shots and 16 of 23 overall, the seven-foot forward hit a turnaround 17 -foot jumpPr over Reggie Evans at the buzzer to give the Dallas Mavericks a 95-93 victory against Philadelphia, snapping the 76ers' season-high seven­game winning streak. 
''I'm a shooter," Nowitzki said. "I always think the next one is going in." 
Nowitzki received the inbounds pass with 4.3 sec­onds left and spun around the 6-foot-8 Evans to deliver the game-winning shot. 
"It's easy to get it to him because he's seven feet," Kidd said of Nowitzki. "He's done it all year. He's an All-Star and an MVP and he enjoys these moments." 
Nowitzki finished with 24 points, Jason Kidd had 22 points and 12 rebounds and Jason Terry added 20 for the Mavericks (24-17). 
Philadelphia coach Tony DiLeo didn't second-guess his decision to put the smaller Evans on Nowitzki. 
"Heggie had a good feel for him because he was guarding him for the last five minutes as we were making our come­back," DiLeo said. "Reggie is a physical guy who did push him out and contested the shot." 
Lou Williams scored 25 points, while Andre Iguodala had 18 points and 12 rebounds for the 76ers (20­21), who are trying to climb 
above .500 for the first time since Nov. 23 when they were 7-6. 
Andre ·Miller added 12 points for Philadelphia, whose four-game home winning streak ended. 
"I was proud of the way we came back," Iguodala said. "I think we need to continue to have that hunger." 
The 76ers have reason to be optimistic with the expected return of forward Elton Brand, who worked out on the court before the game. DiLeo said Brand, who dislocated his right shoulder De-c. 17 and has missed 16 consecutive games, most likely will play Saturday against the New York Knicks. 
Dallas overcame an early deficit and was sparked by Kidd and Nowitzki. Kidd tied his season-high with six 3­pointers, while Nowitzki shook off a poor shooting perform­ance from the field (7-of-23) by hitting all 10 of his free throws. Nowitzki is 44-for-45 from the free throw line over the last six games. 
Kidd was 6-of-8 from 3-point territory. 
"They're going to give me 3­point shots," Kidd said. "I haven't been making many, but I've been staying with it." 
Dallas trailed 55-47 with 
8:58 remaining in the third quarter, then went on a 19-4 run over six minutes. Kidd scored 11 points, including three 3-pointers, and Nowitzki had eight during the scoring spurt to give the Mavericks a 66-59 advantage. 
By the end of the third quar­ter, the Mavericks led 74-63, with Kidd and Nowitzki com­bining for 25 of their 32 
AP 


points. 

With 2:14 remammg, Terry hit a 3-pointer from the base­line to give Dallas a 93-81 lead. It wouldn't last as the 76ers scored 12 straight points, tying the game at 93 with 8.5 seconds left after a driving layup by Iguodala. 
"We really came back there at the end," DiLeo said. "They never gave up. That's the essence of our team." 
Rockets 115, Nuggets 113 

HOUSTON -The Denver Nuggets felt a bad call cost them a win against the Houston Hockets. 
Yao Ming scored 31 points, Hafer Alston added 18 points and 11 assists and the Rockets beat the Nuggets 115-113 on Monday. 
Denver's Kenyon Martin missed two foul shots with 2.6 seconds left, and Yao got the rebound to clinch the win. But the Nuggets felt they had the go-ahead basket wrongly taken away on their previous possession. 
Yao missed with 18 seconds left, Martin rebounded and Denver coach George Karl called timeout. Lina.s Kleiza drove into the lane and passed to Nene for a dunk. But the basket didn't count beeause referee Bennett Salvatore called a eharge on Kleiza for running into Chuck Hayes. 
"I thought it was definitely a flop," Kleiza said. "I definitely didn't feel like I hit him. But. oh well. It's done. We've got to Inove on." 
Aaron Brooks hit 1-of-2 from lhe line with 6.5 seconds to go and Karl called one more timeout. 
Chauncey Bi.llups fed Martin cutting down the lane, and he was fouled. Martin came into the game making 58.3 percent of his free throws. 
The Nuggets were too steamed about Salvatore's call on Kleiza to blame Martin for the loss. 
"L.K. made a great play," Karl said. "It was a great play that won the game. We're just going to go home without a win." 
J.H. Smith scored 24, Nene had 23 and Martin 22 for the Nuggets, who lost for just the third time in 12 games. 
"We had great effort," Karl said. "My big guys battled Yao and got beat up a lot. He's a tough eat, gets away with a lot of holding, grabbing and dis­lodging. There are losses that are good losses. Tonight was a good loss. We did a lot of things well." 
Von Wafer had 1R points and Luis Scola· finished with 16 for the Hockets, who have won five of their last six games. Yao went 13-for-19 from the field -5-for-8 in the fourth quarter. 
"lie was terrific," Houston coach Hick Adelman said. "He made some really positive plays." 
Yao. who went 12-for-12 from the field in a win over Miami. on Saturday, missed his first two shots on Monday. Alston sank his first f'ive shots, including three 3-pointers, to carry the Hockets early. 
Yao spun for a dunk 90 sec­onds into the third quarter, then drew his fourth foul going for an offensive rebound on Houston's next possession. The Nuggets continued their accurate shooting, hitting five of their first eight after the break to build an 80-73 lead. 
Denver finally started miss­ing and the Hockets finished the third quarter with a 17-7 spurt to take a 90-87 lead to the fourth. The Nuggets scored 64 points in the first half, but mustered only 19 in the third quarter. 
"Our defense in the second half was kev," Yao said. "In the first half, they shot way too many layups. We did a bet­ter job in the second half." 
Smith started the final quar­ter with a pair of 3-pointers to put the Nuggets back in front. He hit four 3s and went 6-for­1 0 from the field i.n the fourth quarter. 
"I tried to do what I do," Smith said. "Just keep shoot­ing, just try to get my rhythm." 
Billups broke a 103-all tie with Denver's eighth 3-pointer with 6:27 left. Yao argued a traveling call at the other end and got a technical foul and Billups' free throw put Denver up 107-103. 
"It was one of those games where you kind of had to claw your way back into it," said Brent Barry, who scored 11 for Houston. "[t's kind of like the person who is going to score last is going to win." 
Yao's hook shot with 1:41 lnft gave the Rockets a 114­110 lead. Smith hit his fifth 3­pointer with 1 :05 remaining to cut Houston's lead to one. 

Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki shoots over a Philadelphia defend­er during the Mavericks' 95-93 win over the 76ers Monday. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame offitce, 024 South Dining f-lail. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds f(Jt content without issuing rdimds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Babysitter wanted for 2 young children of NO faculty near NO Mondays &/or Wednesdays. Good pay. Please email kbrantma@nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
andersonNOrentals.com 
FREE COMCAST! 
3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes close to campus. Safe Neighborhood, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2 car garage, 10x20 decks. Call 574-232·4527 or 269-683·5038. From $1,700/mo 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba 

just off campus. 
Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250·7653. 
Fun fact: the Detroit Pistons are the only team in the NBA without a white person. 
Leaves are falling all around, Its time I was on my way. Thanks to you, lm much obliged For such a pleasant stay. But now its time for me to go, The autumn moon lights my way. For now I smell the rain, And with it pain, And its headed my way. Ah, sometimes I grow so tired, But I know lve got one thing I got to do, Ramble on, And nows the time, the time is now To sing my song. 
lm goin round the world. I got to find my girl, on my way. lve been this way ten years to the day, ramble on, Gatta find the queen of all my dreams. Got no time to for spreadin roots, The time has come to be gone. And tho our health we drank a thou· sand times, Its time to ramble on. Ramble on, And nows the time, the time is now To sing my song. lm goin round the world. 
lgot to find my girl, on my way. lve been this way ten years to the day, ramble on, Gotta find the queen of all my dreams. I aint tellin no lie. Mines a tale that cant be told, My freedom I hold dear; How years ago in days of old When magic filled the air, Twas in the darkest depths of mor­dor I met a girl so fair, But gollum, and the evil one crept up 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, January 20, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 13 
team  
1  SAINT MARY'S  
2  Hope  
3  Adrian  
4  Albion  
5  Trine  
6  Alma  
7  Calvin  
8  Olivet  
9  Kalamazoo  


conference record 
6-1 6·1 
4-3 4-3 
4·4 
3-4 
3·4 
2·5 
0·7 

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ohio State at Illinois 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
Tennessee at Vanderbilt 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK Baltimore defensive coor­dinator Hex Hyan was hired as the coach of the New York Jets on Monday, a day after the Ravens lost in the AFC championship. 
The 46-year-old Hyan replaces the fired Eric Mangini. taking over a team that started last season 8-3 but missed the playoffs with quarterback Brett Favre after losing four of its last five games. 
The Jets announced the hiring, but released no other details. The con­tract is for four years, a person with knowledge of the deal told The Associated Press. The person spoke on condition of anonymity earlier Monday because the deal had not been announced. 
Ryan, the son of former NFL coach Buddv Rvan, will be formally in-tro­duced at a news confer­ence Wednesday at the Jets' facility in Florham Park, N.J. 
"It's been a dream of mine to become a head coach in the NFL," Ryan said in a statement. "Coming here to the New York Jets, where my father once coached and was part of the Super Bowl III staff, is fantastic. I look around at the facili­
ties and the people they have in place and see a first-class organization. I'm just proud to be part of it." 
The deal was finalized Monday afternoon after Jets owner Woody Johnson and general manager Mike Tannenbaum flew to Baltimore in the morning to iron out the details, team spokesman Bruce Speight said. 
"We got the right man for the job," Johnson said in a statement. 
The Ravens' defensive coorainator the last four seasons is the twin broth­er of Cleveland defensive coordinator Rob Ryan. 
His Baltimore defense helped the Ravens to the AFC championship game and has been ranked in the top six in total yardage allowed the last four seasons, including second overall this season while leading the NFL with 34 takeaways. 
"I think it's a gain for them and a loss for us, but it's well-deserved," Ravens linebacker Bart Scott said. "It was a long timP coming." 
This will be the first head coaching job for Ryan, who is said to he well liked among his play­ers becausr of his straightforward, no-non­sense style. 
1 2 
3 
4 5 6 
7 
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 

Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team points 
Wake forest 1793 Duke 1721 Connecticut 1590 Pittsburgh 1569 North Carolina 1510 Oklahoma 1498 Michigan Stale 1394 Syracuse 1146 Louisville 1090 Clemson 1043 Marquette 1003 Georgetown 919 UCLA 897 Texas 858 Xavier 848 Butler 726 Arizona State 671 Purdue 553 NOTRE DAME 469 VIllanova 353 .Minnesota 298 Memphis 208 Gonzaga 201 Florida 175 Illinois 159 

previous 
2 3 4 
1 
5 6 
7 
8 20 10 14 13 9 
11 
15 17 16 19 12 23 18 NR NR NR NR 

Women's Basketball 
APTop 25 
team  points  
1  Connecticut  1125  
2  North Carolina  1080  
3  Oklahoma  1018  
4  Duke  958  
5  Baylor  948  
6  Auburn  895  
7  louisville  867  
8  California  780  
9  Texas A&M  745  
10  Tennessee  686  
11  Stanford  673  
12  Maryland  622  
13  NOTRE DAME  601  
14  Texas  553  
15  Florida  445  
16  Virginia  442  
17  Vanderbilt  407  
18  Kansas State  366  
19  Ohio State  361  
20  Marist  205  
21  Rutgers  182  
22  Florida State  143  
23  New Mexico  106  
24  Oklahoma State  101  
25  Pittsburgh  75  


prelfiOus 
1 
2 
3 4 5 6 7 
11 
8 
13 
9 
12 10 16 19 
14 
18 
17 
15 
21 
23 NR 25 22 NR 

MIAA Basketball Conference Standings 
IN BRIEF Markakis Orioles agree on 
6-year, ~66 million deal 
BALTIMORE -Hight fielder Nick Markakis and the Baltimore Orioles reached a preliminary agreement Monday on a $66 million, six-year eon­tract, according to a person familiar with the deal. 
ThP contract is pending a physical, the person said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the deal has not yet been signed. 
The deal, the second-richest in team history, covers three years Markakis would have been eligible for arbitration and the first three after he would have been eligible for free agency. The agree­ment was fiThi reported by The Sun. 
Markakis hit a career-high .306 with 20 homers and 87 HBis for the Orioles last season, his third in the majors. He played in 157 games, drew 99 walks and led all AL outfielders vvith 17 assists. 
The only higher deal for the 01ioles was the $72 million, six-year contract shortstop Miguel 1~jada signed before the 2003 season. 
Giants appoint Sheridan 
defensive coordinator 
EAST HUTIIERFORD, N.J.-Less than two days after Steve Spagnuolo left to become coach of the St. Louis Hams, Tum Coughlin promoted linebackers eoach Bill Sheridan to replace hin1 a'i the New York Giants' defensive eoordinator. 
Coughlin interviewed Sheridan and secondary coach Peter Giunta for the coordinator's job Sunday. Giunta was the Ran1S' defensive coordinator when they won the 2000 Super Bowl. 
Sheridan has spent four seasons V\ith the Giants, with his biggest challenge coming in 2007 when he helped Mathiac; Kiwanuka make the move from defen­sive end to linebaeke1: 
Before coming to the NFL, Sheridan spent two decades as a college assistant, eoaching all the positions on defense in that span. 
111e Giants played an aggressive blitz­ing defense in Spagnuolo's two years as defensive coordinator, and Sheridan said that he will keep the system, although he will make some modifications. 
McGahee released from 
hospital, returns home 
OWINGS MILLS. Md. -Willis McGahee joined his teammates Monday at Baltimore's training complex after doctors told him he would make a full recovery from a fierce helmet-to-helmet hit in the AFC championship game that had him carted ofr the field. 
The play occurred in the fourth quarter of Pittsburgh's 23-14 victo­ry. McGahee had just caught a pass and taken two steps before being met by safety Ryan Clark, who drove his helmet into McGahee's face mask. McGahee·s head snapped back, and he lost the ball as he dropped to the ground. 
"I didn't even see him coming," McGahee said. 
Clark also collapsed, though it was immediately apparent that his injury wasn't serious. Players from both teams gathered around McGahee, who lay motionless before being taken away. 
~----------------­
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 20, 2009 
NHL 
Sharks recall 43-year­old Lemieux fro111 AHL 
Celebrate the Feast Day of 
Blessed Basil Moreau 
January 20th 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Nearly six years after Claude Lemieux retired, he's back to pester the NHL again. 
The San Jose Sharks recalled the 43-year-old for­ward from their AHL affiliate on Monday. adding a four­time Stanley Cup winner to a team already tied for the overall league lead. 
Lemieux probably will be in San Jose's lineup Tuesday night against Vancouver. He spent the past eight weeks riding the bus and playing against the next generation in Worcester. Mass., making sure his physical skills still matched his desire to com­plete a comeback that's been on his mind since shortly after he retired in 2003. 
"The more I was told this was impossible, the more I wanted it." Lemieux said after his first practice with the Sharks. "I still feel that way. This is just the first step to life back in the NHL.... I _ got into this with my eyes wide open, knowing that most folks out there would think that I'm out of my mind to attempt to do something like this." 
Lemieux once was hockey's archetypal agitating forward. beloved by his teammates 
and despised by everybody else during parts of 20 sea­sons with five NHL clubs. He also was among the best playoff performers of his generation, with 80 postsea­son goals that are still ninth­most in league history. 
Lemieux, who will wear No. 32 in teal, won titles with Montreal (1986), New Jersey (1995, 2000) and Colorado (1996), earning the Conn Smythe Trophy as the playoff MVP for the Devils in 1995. 
Sharks coach Todd McLellan. who's over-two years younger than Lemieux, is expected to have Lemieux in uniform against the Canucks in San Jose's final game before the All-Star break -nearly 24 years after his NHL debut in 1985. 
"The excitement is proba­bly about the same," Lemieux said. recalling that first game with the Canadiens. "The only difference is I know what to expect, and back then I didn't know what to expect. I've done this before. and it's going to help me through the process. I worked very hard to get to where I'm at today. It's what I wanted, a chance to live this dream again, and it's great to be here." 
Lemieux's career petered out after 32 games and seven playoff appearances with the Dallas Stars in 2003. He lived in Phoenix after his retire­ment, dabbling in real estate investment, appearing on a reality show and briefly serv­ing as president of the ECHL's Phoenix Roadrunners. 
But a comeback already was on his mind when he played briefly in Switzerland in 2004 before the league's lockout season. After nearly starting a return in 2007, he got his wife's approval to try it last fall. 
"With the lockout, I thought 


Today we have an enhanced awareness of the rich and living legacy that Basil Moreau passed on, not only to the religious ofHoly Cross and those who minister with them, but to all who are committed to continuing the mission and message of Jesus. 
JOEL GIALLANZA, C.S.C. 

I'd missed my opportunity, but I missed being out there," Lemieux said. "I missed the camaraderie and the chance to do something you love. To know that you've got to get up in the morning and be some place, and you've got a job to do ... it's just the best life. I'm very thankful that I can do this again." 
Sharks general manager Doug Wilson is no stranger to reclamation projects after adding Jeremy Roenick and Saudis Ozolinsh to his club last season. He also provided a chance to Lemieux, who joined the Worcester Sharks in late November and signed a two-way contract in late December. 
With Wilson monitoring every shift on television, Lemieux had three goals and eight assists in 23 games with Worcester. racking up 24 penalty minutes and a plus-2 rating. 
"Historically, people that can come back and help you later in their careers usually have similar attributes.~' Wilson said. "A t'ove for the game, a high level of intelli­gence, and ... being geneti­cally gifted. lie's gifted, and he's gone and put the work and time and energy in. He's not been given anything by 

Other books in the Holy Cross tradition 



Books are available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and also at Ave Maria Press located across from Moreau Seminary. 
-~ ave maria press· • Notre Dome, Indiana • www.avemariapress.comAm E-moil: ovemariopress 1@nd.edu • Ph: 1-800-282-1865 • Fax; 1-800-282-5681 
A Minl$try of the lodiono Province of Holy Cros~ 
us. If anything, we've given him a couple of (reasons) to say it's not been worth it." 
Lemieux won't be the oldnst 
player in the NHL, not with 
Detroit defenseman Chris 
Chelios turning 47 later this 
month. But his comeback is 
even more remarkable 
because of his lengthy 
absence from the game. 
Montreal coach Guy Carbonneau played with Lemieux during parts of six seasons with the Canadiens 
in the 1980s. 
"I'm very surprised, even shocked," Carbonneau said after the Canadiens' practice Monday. "Chris Chelios is 46 years old. but the fact that Claude stopped playing three or four years ago, it shows the kind of character he has. I'm happy for him. When· I first heard about it, I didn't think it would be possible, but it just goe-s to show that nothing is impossible." 
Although the Sharks led the overall NHL standings with 71 points entering Monday's games, their fourth line has­n't been impressive or pro­ductive since Roenick was sjdelined last month with a shoulder injury. If Lemieux sticks and Roenick returns soon, the Sharks could match Roenick and Lemieux with enforcer Jody Shelley on a line that would be among the NHL's most entertaining, if no longer its most talented. 
Lemieux replaces young forwards Brad Staubitz and Tom Cavanagh. who were sent back to Worcester so they can play through the All-Star break. 
"Claude deserved it, he earned it, and I really can't stress it enough that the guys down in Worcester are happy for him," Wilson said. "They know he put in the work. lie's happy to be here, it's that simple." 

ls God a Mathematician? 
Guest lecture by Mario Livio, Ph.D. 7 p.m. Wednesday, January 21, 2009 Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library Free and open to the public 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 


Tuesday, January 20, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
TENNIS 
Pavel retires because of injury, gives Murray win 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Andy Murray's first win at Rod Laver Arena was a little low key. 
The 21-year-old Seot, carry­ing the hopes of a British pub­lic looking for its first male Grand Slam champion since 1936, was leading Andrei Pavel 6-2, 3-1, 15-0 in the Australian Open when the Romanian retired with a back injury. 
The fourth-seeded Murray, who lost last year's U.S. Open final to Roger Federer. didn't mind getting off the court as the midday temperatures topped 99 degrees on Tuesday, day two of the first major of the year. 
"It's the first time I've ever won a match on here," he said. "You don't want to win a match like that. Andrei's been having trouble with his back for a year." 
Murray was installed as the favorite or joint favorite for the tournament by British bookmakers after beating Federer three times since los­ing the U.S. Open final -his best run at a major to date. 
'Tm aiming to go one better here and I need all the sup­port I can get," he said, noting the number of Scottish flags unfurled around the stadium. "It's nice. Hopefully they'll keep coming throughout the tournament." 
Murray defended his Qatar Open title before coming to Melbourne but said it was still difficult getting used to the Australian summer. 
The relentless sun had play­ers seeking shelter in whatev­er shade they could find between points. 
Murray, who worked hard in an offseason conditioning pro­gram that has added seven pounds of muscle to his lean frame, was sharp from the start, exerting pressure with virtually every shot. 
Pavel managed to keep pace for the first four games before his feet betrayed him at the same time that his back was letting him down. He was twice called for foot-faults as Murray broke him for a 3-2 lead while running off the last five games of the first set. 
Pavel had a quick massage on his lower back during the changeover, held se•·ve, and lost 13 of the next 14 points. 
Federer commenced his quest for a 14th major to equal Pete Sampras' record with a 6-1, 7-6 (4), 7-5 first­round win over 35th-ranked Andreas Seppi of Italy that fin­ished after midnight. 
It was a difficult opener, considering Seppi is only just outside the top 32 players who are seeded for the tourna­ment. 
Federer had mononucleosis this time last year and that dogged him for months. 
"I wasn't fit, I had hardly played any matches, had any practice." he said. "This year I had much more preparation and 1 feel 1 know where mv game's at." · 
Second-seeded Serena Williams, the reigning U.S. Open champion and winner each odd year at Melbourne Park since 2003. faces Yuan Meng of China on Tuesday. 
Sixth-seeded Venus Williams, who won her fifth Wimbledon title and finished off 2008 by winning the sea­son-ending tour champi­onship, goes against Angelique Kerber of Germany. 
Fourth-seeded Elena Dementieva, unbeaten in 10 matches this year and winner of the Beijing Olympic gold medal, plays Kristina Barrois. 
Hafael Nadal starts his sec­ond consecutive major as the top seed in a night match against Christophe Hochus of Belgium, about the same time No. 9 James Blake is due to play Canada's Frank Dancevic. 
Blake and Andy Roddick arR leading the American charge. 

Mardy Fish also advanced, but six other Americans made first-round exits: Hobby Ginepri, John Isner, Hobert Kendrick, Bobby Reynolds, Sam Querrey and Taylor Dent. 
Dent, returning from three back operations for his first major since 2006, lost to fel­low American Amer Delic in tive sets. 
Other men advancing were No. 8 Juan Martin del Potro and No. 10 David Nalbandian of Argentina, No. 11 David Ferrer, No. 15 Stanislas Wawrinka, 2005 champion Marat Safin, 2006 finalist Marcos Baghdatis and 16­year-old Australian Bernard Tomic. 
Third-seeded Dinara Sa fin a and No. 7 Vera Zvonareva of Russia, No. 11 Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark, No. 15 Alize Cornet of France, No. 16 Marion Bartoli and No. 19 Daniela Hantuchova were among the women advancing. 


Egr<:t JVligr.::tntes C:<trit.as C:h.risti .a.r:1cl tl1e Pastoral Care oF II-.telTl.ati<Yl"lal Stl._tdents 
_Arcl1bishop _Agostirto JVLarchetto 
5'ecret[zry ~~F the PontiJ'ical c-:ol-t:ncil.fi~r the 
Pastoral Care qf·JVfigranrs and Irin.eranr People 
Jaii.-.....ary 20, 2009 at: 7:30 I:-Iesb-.....rgh _A_-.....dit:ori-.....II1 at: t:he I:-Iesb-.....rgh Ceii.t:er 
SPC>.NSC>H.ED BV 
C>f'hce oF t:he J.>r(.~sid.ent: I <:-::enter For Social c:onc:en1s Mendoza c::ollege oF Business I Kroc Institute f<::>r· Inter~n<··ttioru·:tl Pence Studies Departn1ent of" Theology I Inlernalional Student Services and Activities Inst.it:.t..1te f<:::>r Lat.ino St.udies l.nst:it:ute f(:>r C:ht..lrch LiFe Ford PtT>gr<·Hl.'l in Ht.lJ.Tl~·\11 I:>evelopn.l.ent I <:::(?Iller h::>r c:·ivil <-Hl.d Huln~:HJ l~ight:s 


l:JN"I'VER.SITY C>F 
NOTRE DAlVIE 

Tuesday, January 20, 2009 The Obserz,er + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 16 

LIVING IN A FORNIFJED CULTURE 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2009 7:00-8:30 PM 
H ESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
(IN THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES ON DEBARTOLO QUAD) 

SPONSORED BY: GENDER RELATIONS CENTER, GENDER STUDIES PROGRAM, NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE, PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT, CAMPUS MINISTRY DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND WELLNESS INSTRUCTION, IDENTITY PROJECT OF NOTRE DAME 
Tuesday, January 20, 2009 The Observer +SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Bruins squeak out shootout win 
Zdeno Chara scored off a face­Leeavalier scored twiee and Tampa Bay right wing Martin 
Associated Press 
off with 3:05 left for a 4-2 the Tampa Bay Lightning ral­St. Louis had two assists. He edge. lied for three goals in the third has 14 assists and 19 points in 
BOSTON, -David Baekes Blues reserve goaltender period to beat Dallas on his last 12 games. didn't swing and miss on his Chris Mason stopped Blake Monday night, their first home Dallas, with the Nl·IL's worst team's last ehance. Wheeler and Axelsson in the win over the Stars in nearly l3 road power play, conver.ted 
Backes scon~d the tying goal shoo tout. years. one of six man-advantage situ­with eighth-tenths of a second Wheeler also missed an · Lecavalier gave the Lightning ations through two periods. 
·· left in regulation and the St. empty net with about 20 sec­a 3-2 lead with 5:06 left in the Tampa Bay· had just one Louis Blues went on to beat the onds left in regulation before third from the top of the right power-play chanee during the Boston Bruins 5-4 in a Backes scored. circle during a power play. stretch, coming with 3:01 left shootout Monday. ''It was any hockey player's Vinny Prospal had an empty­in the second. With the eloek winding down worst nightmare come true," net goal at 19:11 to make it 4­
2. .
and the Blues dose to yet Wheeler said of his shot from Devils 3, Predators 1 another road loss, Baekes saw just outside the blue line. "It Steven Stamkos pulled NASHVILLE, Tenn. the puck pop up in front of definitely hurts just to know Tampa Bay even at 2 from the Brendan Shanahan's return to him. Positioned at the right how hard these guys fought all low slot off a pass from Steve the New Jersey Devils was a post, he batted it out of the air game ·to get back and pretty Downie at 11:46 of the third. big success. and into the net as the siren mueh get the win. To have it Tampa Bay's Mark Recehi Playing his first NHL gamP in sounded. fall on my shoulders hurts assisted on Lecavalier's third­more than eight months, 
After a lengthy replay pretty bad." period goal, moving·him past Shanahan broke a scoreless tie review, the goal counted. The Mason kept the Bruins seore­Dale. Hawerchuk into 17th .in the second period and Nflw puek was slightly above the less after replacing injured place on the NHL's career Jersey beat the Nashville cross bar when Backes hit it, starter Manny Legace midway points list with 1,41 0. Predators on Monday night for the video showed. into the opening period until Brad Riehards and Loui its fourth straight vietory. 
"I ·tried not to watch the the late rally. Legace left with Eriksson scored for the Stars, David Clarkson and Zach replay too many times. But no what the team called a lower who had their eight-game win­Parise also scored for the matter what I saw, I had a bias body injury and wasn't on the ning streak at Tampa Bay Devils, who moved ahead of toward that one," Backes said. bench for the remainder of the snapped. It was Dallas' first the New York Rangers into ''I'm going to have rp.y bias game. loss at Tampa Bay since Feb. first place in the Atlantic toward that one and say it was "To our eredit, it was a heck 19, 1996. Division. a good call." of a fmish. We didn't give up," Lecavalier put the Lightning New Jersey completed a 5-l 
Down 4-2. the Blues started Mason said. "We eould've easi­ahead 1-0 on a short-handed road trip, getting help in the their comeback with David ly packed it in there and game goal 1:33 into the first. The finale from an old pro. Perron's power-play goal with over. We got lucky there and Tampa Bay captain has a goal Shanahan, who turns 40 on 
1:20 left. found a way to do it." in three straight games, and Friday, scored at 1:38 of the 
T.J. Oshie and Brad Boyes St. Louis had taken a 2-1 has 16 points (nine goals, seeond. He skated in from the scored in the shootout for the edge when Jay McClement seven assists) over his last 12 left side along the goal line, Blues, who have the worst one-timed a shot inside the left games. deked Greg Zanon and frred a reeord in the Western post 6:51 into the second. The Stars entered as one of shot into the right side of the Conference and had lost nine There was a smattering of three teams -along with net, beating goalie Pekka of their previous 10 road boos as the Blues controlled Detroit and Philadelphia -Rinne during a 5-on-3 power games. play midway into the period. that hadn't allowed a short­play. 
The Eastern Conference­Neither team had a shot on handed goal this season. It was Shanahan's 651st leading Bruins trailed 2-1 goal until Boston made it 1-0 Lecavalier has 21 goals. He goal, which ranks 11th on the before scoring three times in a on Chuek Kobasew's goal 4:26 has seored 20 or more in each NHL list. It also gave him 1,341 span of 1:39 late in the third into the game. of his last nine seasons. points, 24th on the career period. The Blues tied it at 1 when Hichards, playing against his chart. Shanahan has played in 
"! guess the best way to Brad Winehester redirected former team for the first time, 1,491 NHL games. describe it is everyone involved Jeff Woywitka's shot from the tied it at 1 with a power-play He has 23 goals in 42 games except for the people in charge point and the puck triekled goal 20 sec~nds after against the Predators, more don't happen to think it was a between Tim Thomas' pads at Lecavalier's goal. Richards, the than any other player. goal," said Baston coach 7:37. Thomas, on his knees, playoff MVP when Tampa Bay Shanahan, who spent the Claude Julien, who later went looked up to the ceiling in frus­won the 2004 Stanley Cup, was past two seasons with the New on to say, "we got what we tration after the puck slid traded to Dallas last February. York Rangers, made his season deserved." behind him. The Stars took a 2-1 lead on debut early in the first period 
Boston's P.J. Axelsson and Eriksson's goal at 4:19 of the after signing an $800,000, Miehael Ryder had power-play Lightning 4, Stars 2 second. Richards picked up an one-year eontraet Wednesday. goals 19 seconds apart, then TAMPA, Fla. -Vincent assist on the play. It was his fn·st game since May 
4. 2008, in the playoffs at Pittsburgh. 

Shanahan was drafted by the Devils with the No. 2 
In celebration of Blessed Father Moreau's Feast Day, the Saint Mary's 
Office of Special Events presents the world premiere of 
pick in 1987. He left the team in 1991, signing a free­agent contract with the St. Louis Blues. 

,,..,._.,w-'M'·"'''"'"'•''''-.v.·.v•••••'''' 

._,··""""'.._,

R Sl E:'"N=r 
dlie mi.n£will>tet lie 

ADVISORS 
The Northwestern University College Preparation Prograrn is looking for­resident advisor-s to help guide high school students through a surnrner of learning and fun at Northwestern. Earn salary. including roorn and board; work with bright. motivated high school students from around the country and ab,.-oad; plan exciting events and gain valuable expe,.-ience while enjoying Northwestern carnpus life and Chicago this summer! 
QUALIFICATIONS: completion of sophomore year of college by _June. 2009 a consistent record of academic achi evernent excellent con<munication, leadership, motivation, and probler·n-solving skills previous experience as an RA, tut.or, or can-.p counselor enthusiasrn and an interest in working with high school students a wide range of extTacurricular interests and activities a strong sense of r-esponsi bi I ity and a
Wayne wants a SMART Board. Ronnie wants harmony. 
high level of maturity 
The Coach wants a win. And Guillaume, the Fighting Gardener, 
APPLY BY FEBRUARY 13. 2009 
wants the rabbits to stop eating his carrots. 
For info and to request an application. contact Betsy Haberl at 84 7-49 l-3443 or e·-haberl@northwes.tern .edu. 
Enjoy this comic portrayal oflife at a fictional Holy Cross high school featuring sophomore Maria Chipman and professors Bill Svelmoe and Michael Kramer. 

NC:>RTH~ESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

Draft 
continued from page 20 
Francisco. 
Defender Elise Weber and Hanks will continue to play as teammates as Weber was taken the 21th overall pick by the St. Louis Athletica. The transfer from the University of Wisconsin started all 53 games during her two years with the Irish and helped Dew keep the. Irish defense standing. 
ln addition to the four graduating seniors, the Irish lost another familiar face to the draft. Current volunteer assistant coach Amanda Cinalli was selected by St. Louis in the general draft for players no longer in college. Other recent graduates selected include defender Christie Shaner ('07), who was selected in the fourth round (25th over­all) and midfielder J en Buezkowski ('07), who went in the sixth round (39th overall) to Sky Blue FC (New Jersey.) 
Irish standout Kate (Sobrero) Markgraf ('98) is listed on the Chicago roster but will sit out the league's inaugural season as she is awaiting the birth of her second child. Another Notre Dame graduate, midfielder Shannon Boxx ('99), joins Bock in Los Angeles. 
The WPS is the second attempt at women's profes­sional soccer in the U.S. The Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA) was founded in 2000 but only survived three seasons before folding. With fresh stars like those coming off the Irish graduating class, many hold hopes the WPS will survive longer than its predecessor. Boasting inter­nationally-famed players like Brazil's Marta (Los Angeles Sol) and America's own Abby Wambach (Washington Freedom), the WPS stands a fighting ehanee. 
The first match kieks off Sunday. March 29, when Bock and the Los Angeles Sol play host to the Washington Freedom in Carson, Calif. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 20, 2009 
carry them through the brutal 
and pose a threat to beat any­tency. The Mountaineers blew Big East season. They need to 
one in the conferenee. out Ohio State and Seton Hall,
Overview
'D' Up 
then lost to Connecticut while continued from page 20 any chance of competing with 
damp down on defense to have 
No. 14 Georgetown Marquette easily handled
continued from page 20 

the league's elite teams, espe­
(12-4, 3-2) them. West Virginia should fin­a team full of leaders but they cially on the road. otTensive 
enee-opener to (Jp,orgetown, The Hoyas came through ish toward the middle of the have shown little poise, most runs might allow them to take 
the Huskies haven't really their five-game Big East gaunt­pack, but it could knock off an notably on the road. down good teams at home, 
faced any tough opponents. Up let with a winning record in upper-echelon team some­And ifNotre Dame doesn't when the crowd helps turn 
next, Conneeticut plays conferenee play. In that where down the road. toughen up, things will only go those runs into game-changing 
Villanova before eoming to stretch, they defeated downhill from here. A big, momentum. 
South Bend to try and end CQnnecticut on the road,. and Cincinnati (12-7, 2-4) physical Connecticut squad But none of the postseason 
Notre Dame's Joyce Center win Syraeuse and Providenee at The Bearcats have a long comes to town Saturday before will be played at the Joyce 
streak. On paper, the Huskies home, while losing at home to way to go to replicate the suc­high-powered Marquette and Center. If the Irish hope to 
should hand Notre Dame its Pittsburgh ap.d losing in the cess in basketball that they had its legion oftalented guards reach what most thought their 
first home loss in three years, Joyee Center. Georgetown has in football. They lost their first • ·invades the Joyce Center. potential to be, they will have to 
but there are no guarantees in three winnable games on its three conference games but If the Irish s;_rrendered 82 win on the road. Only with bet­
the Big East. sehedule next before traveling won the next two, against points to a team like Seton Hall ter defense will they have a 
to Marquette on Jan. 31. DePaul and Rutgers, before and 93 to Syracuse -whieh is chance to do that. 
No.4 Pittsburgh (17-1, 5-1) losing again on Monday to more renowned for its physical­So beginning this weekend, 
Pittsburgh rebounded nicely No. 19 Notre Dame Providence. ity than its scoring -how Notre Dame must play shut­
from its dose loss at Louisville (12-5, 3-3) many points can Marquette put down defense at critical 
Saturday with a dominating Notre Dame is in the middle St. John's (10-7, 1-4) up? 100? 110? moments. 
performance over Syracuse at of a crucial five-game stretch The Hed Storm lone confer­Hopefully for the Irish, a Otherwise, the Irish will have 
home on Monday. The that many felt would show just ence win eame against the return home and the desire to something else in common with 
Panthers head to the road how good the Irish are this Irish. In their other four prolong their 45-game win the Mavericks of recent years 
again for games against season. So far, they haven't games, St. John's has lost by an streak \vill motivate them to -they won't get very far in the 
Villanova and West Virginia lived up to expectations, drop­average of 18.7 points per flex whatever museles they postseason. 
before returning home for an ping a game they should've game. It does, however, have have. 
afternoon matciiup with Notre won at Louisville while coming two winnable games coming Notre Dame's greatest The 1•iews expressed in this 
Dame on .Jan. 31. Pittsburgh out llat defensively Saturday up against Cincinnati and strength clearly lies on the column are those of the author 
boasts possibly the best front against Syracuse. The Irish are Rutgers. offensive end. At certain times, and not necessarily those of 
line in the conference, with off until Saturday when they it seems like the Irish can put The Observer. 
Sam Young and DeJuan Blair host Connecticut, and then South Aorida (6-11, 1-4) up points with anyone, but they Contact fran Tolan at 
leading the way. Monday, they welcome a Dominique Jones is proving can't rely on scoring bursts to ftolan@nd. edu 
Marquette team that beat them himself to be a quality guard, 
No. 8 Syracuse (17-3, 5-2) twice last season. but past him, there's not much 
Syracuse has struggled on to talk about here. The Bulls 
the road, barely beating South Villanova (14-3, 2-2) kept it close 'vith West Virginia 
"I have progressed from last 
Florida and dropping games Villanova dropped a hea.rt­and Syracuse, but still sit year, and my in-season times 
against Georgetown and breaker at home against where they usually do -near
Wills 
Pittsburgh that weren't dose. Louisville. All the Wildcats had the bottom of the standings. said. "But it's really only fair to 
have been better overall." Wills But the Syraeuse's next. big to do was make a layup and Good news for South Florida in 
continued from page 20 
matchup is at home, against they would've won. Instead its game tonight. however, as it A large age gap made direct times in order to get a clear 
compare end-of-the-season 
Louisville on Sunday. The they're stuck in the middle of plays DePaul, the only team it 
competition with Phelps rare look at the progression." 
Orange have live, players aver­the-pack, but Dante defeated so far in conference for Wills, but the two still met Wills and the rest of the Irish 
aging double figures in scoring. Cunningham has emerged as a play. on occasion. _ will host the Shamrock 
more consistent threat for "I raced right next to him a Invitational next weekend. He 
Providence (12-6, 4-2) Villanova ofl'ensively, averaging Seton Hall (9-8, 0-5), Rutgers handful of times at local said he is also looking forward 
Providence is so dose to seven more points per game (9-9, 0-5) and DePaul Maryland meets, which was to the Big East championships 
being a Tournament-bound {17.4) than he did a year ago. (8-10, 0-5) pretty special," Wills said. "[The in Indianapolis in mid­
team. The Friars had Which of these teams is the videos] should be cool to look February. 
Marquette beaten at home West Virginia (13-4, 2-2) worst? Possibly DePauL which back at in a few years." "The Big East is going to be a 
before giving the game away. Bob Huggins has had to rely has the most embarrassing loss For the Irish, Wills competes challenge, but it should be 
The~ Friars don't have a domi­on some young talent to or the three -a 22-point home in the 200-lJl.eter butterfly and great," Wills said. "I don't 
nant player, but they do have replace Joe Alexander and the loss to South Florida. Ouch. backstroke events, and both the 
seven players who are frequent results have been about what two hundred-and four hun­Contact Molly Sammon at 
contributors and eaeh average you'd expeet from a young Contact Chris Hine at dred-meter individual medleys. msammon@nd.edu 
more than 8.8 points per game team with talent -inconsis-chine@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Pitt rebounds with big conference victory over Syracuse 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGH -Pittsburgh went through more than half a season without losing, then faced the realistic pos­sibility of losing twice in three days. 
The Panthers didn't let it happen, making sure every­thing that went wrong in its first loss -the lack of rebounding, the poor down­the-stetch shooting -wasn't repeated. · 
Sam Young pulled out of a three-game slump by scor­ing 19 of his 22 points in the second half and No. 4 Pittsburgh surged shortly after halftime to defeat No. 8 Syracuse 78-60 on Monday night. 
·''The big thing in this league (the Big East) is not turning one {loss) into two," point guard Levance Fields said. 
DeJuan Blair, also coming off a poor game during a 69­63 loss at Louisville on Saturday night that ended Pitt's two-week stay at No. 1, was strong inside with 20 points and 12 rebounds. 
Blair's toughness keyed a rugged and at times intimi­dating defense. The Panthers outrebounded the Orange 40-28 and held them nearly 22 points below their scoring average. 
Several Syracuse players were seen complaining to the officials that Pitt (17-1, 5-1) was being too physical, and the Orange (17-3, 5-2) drew two technical fouls less than three minutes apart during the first half. 
Young, Pitt's leading scor­er with an 18.7 average, made seven of 12 shots after going only 15-of-49 in his previous three games. Pitt missed 15 of its final 16 shots while losing a 10-point lead at now-No. 9 Louisville. 
"But as soon as we got on the airplane, we forgot about it," Blair said. "Sometimes you're going to come up short." 
As Syracuse knows. The Orange went 1-2 during a three-game stretch against ranked· Georgetown, Notre Dame and Pitt, beating only the Irish. 
"When you don't play well offensively, this is what's going to happen in this league," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. "But I told the players, we're 17-3 and 5-2, and that's better than we're supposed to be. It's frustrat­ing when you lose, but you have to understand where you are." 
Andy Rautins hit five 3­pointers while scoring 17, but Orange leading seorer Jonny Flynn made three of 
14 shots while being held to 
12 points, four below his 
average. 
"It was him (Hautins) ­

and nobody else," Blair said. 
Pitt bega'n pulling away by 
scoring nine consecutive 
points, finished off by 
Young's layup off Jermaine 
Dixon's pass, to make it 42­
35 with 15:21 remaining. 
The Panthers stretched the 
lead to 53-40 on Fields' 
drive, and Syracuse got no 
closer than seven after that. 
Pittsburgh also went on a 
9-0 run midway through the 
first half to take a 20-11 
lead. The advantage would 
have been bigger if the 
Panthers made some free 
throws -they missed six of 
their first seven, ineluding 
all four by Fields following 
the technicals. Fields had 15 
points and six assists, and 
Pitt ended up 9-of-17 at the 
line. 

"We were in the game, but 
we still were frustrated," 
Boeheim said. "We shouldn't 
have been frustrated." 

The Orange answered with 
a 9-0 run of their own, fin­'ished off by Rautins' 3­pointer that gave them their 
first lead at 28-27. 

Blair came baek to make 
two free throws, drawing 
loud cheers from an 
announced erow.d of 12,508 
that looked to be even larg­er, and Pitt trailed only once after that. For one of the few times since the Petersen Events Center opened in 2002, the ticket demand was. so great that students were turned away. 
Syracuse, blanketed by Pitt's defense, couldn't come up with another run in the second half that would have tightened the game. The Orange came in averaging 
81.5 points, but shot 41.8 pereent (23-of-55) to Pitt's 53.3 percent (32-of-60). 
Pitt was especially effee­tive against Flynn, who scored 28 points as Pitt ral­lied to win 82-77 win at 
Syracuse last  season  after  
trailing by  11  with  3:49  
remaining.  
Pitt  improved  to  2-1  

against ranked opponents, with its other win against Georgetown. Pitt has won its last three at home and six of eight overall from .Syracuse, which five years ago became the first visiting team to win at the Petersen Center. 
The crowd gave some of its biggest cheers to the three Steelers players spotted in the crowd Ben Roethlisberger, Jeff Reed and Santonio Holmes, with Heed pointing proudly to his AFC championship T-shirt. 
Nevv Student and Faculty Specials for 2009! 
Parisi's Restaurant 
Sunday: Pick your favorite past:a and sauce-$7-95, All you can eat:-$9.95 
Tuesday: Stuffed Pastas (manicot:t:i, ravioli, et:c...) -$8.95 
·····~-·­

Wednesday: Mama's Famous Lasagna -$9.95 
All specials inctuCfesatad With our 
homemade dressing and bread & butter
--------"············'""·---------'" 
*Must present School ID to receive special pricing! 
-:--------;:---············--·········-.·-···· Check us out on "the web for other great: nightly specials www.ParislsRestaurant.com 
1412 South Bend Ave. South Bend-574.232.4244 

Tuesday, January 20, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 
• 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

11fl'~..(l ~ ~ THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME ~ \!;!) ~~~ by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 
NEtY 
ICROITE j 

ALn-t:X.JGH NW<RIAGE: IS JUST A WORD,

I I r [j 
IT CAN TURN INTO--­
EOPING 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: A 

(Answers tomorrow} Yesterday's IJumbles: PURGE BERTH . LACING DAINTY Answer: Know!! to fall at the end of a performance ­THE CURTAIN 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 41 Theme of this 74 Example o141· puzzle Across
Example of 41· Down
Across 45 Example of 41· Across 
1 Rock bands? 
7 Example of 41 • 2 Keynote
Across 46 90" pipe joint 
speaker, e.g. 15 Like "Survivo( 47 Resul1 ot getting 
3 Less firm 
groups worked up 
4 Instrument with 16 "That's fine·· 48 Cal! the whole a conical bore thing off 
5 Sha follower 
17 _Quimby of 50 On the wagon 6 French ice
children's books cream
54 Eton students,

18 Most finicky e.g. 
7 Bush league?: 19 Not flght.ing Abbr.
5£Symbol of 

21 Squeezed (out) 8 Merle Haggard, 
sturdiness self-descriptively22 Ballerina's cligi! 

58 City map abbr, 

9 Sail a zigzag
23 Suffix with racket 
59 Tacks on course or rocket 
10 Utile one 25 Weakens, as 11 Put up with 
63 Works of Swift 

and Wilde support 
12 Bread lor a
66 They're over the 29 Une up hill Reuben 13 Speakers' no·
32 Push (for) 70 Dancing locale 
nos 36 Needle part 71 "Be delighted" 
14 Amount left alter 37 Mauna 72Lowtie au is said and Puule by Tlbor Oerencsenyi 
39 Example of 41-73 El(ample of 4 t-done 41 Not wol'l<. out 51 Black Russians 61 Like Radio City .
20 Unagi, at a sushi
Across Across may goon it Music Hall,
42 Kirlian

restaurant 
informally24 Actress Dawson 
photography 52 _ Brolhers 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Image 62 Hitch
of "Renr 53 Fix. as a shoe 64 PirH·size
26 Polar denizen 43 Four·footed TV star 55 Buffalo hockey 65"Mm-hmm"
27 Polar explorer player 66 Chart topper 
28 Salty septet 44 Jar par1 57 Barbecue 67"Do do"
30 Therapeutic 49 Thanl<·yous offering
plant along the 68 It may be tidy 31 ".-got mail~ Thames 60 Bug juice7 69 .... _,·Cat 33 Humanftles 
degs. 
For answers, cal! 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute: or, with a 34 Memory unit credit card, 1·800·814~5554. 35 Cries tram the Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday woods crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 38 "I love him like Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 40 Defendant's Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young plea, informally solvers: nytimes.com/leaming/xwords, 


THE. OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year D Enclosed is $65 for one semester Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address-----------------~­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITrES BORN ON TillS DAY: Tre"or O'Brien, :::5: Jc>di• Swcctin. :;:7; Sha"•n Wayan.>. 40: Dolly Parton, 6.3 
Happy Birthday: Stick to your game plan this year unJ don't let emotional or (l<'r,onal is:o;;ues s.idetrai.""k you. Irs vit~l that you focus on what '"'ill keep )''OU afloat and out of the econo-mi(" d~:baut·her)'· Ifyou are smart and consernttiv'~ and ready to take advant~•ge: of opportunitks. you will end 11p in a wry g('>od p<.>>ition with lnts to look forward to'" the Y<'"-f progres"•s, Your 1lllll11xr> ~··e Z, 9. 16, 21 ••><~. '37. 45 
ARttiS (March 21-April 19): Monq is h"ading your way fmm m un"xpocted and un· llMlal source. Your help will be r<.'<:ognized and rewarded by someone from whom you have bet-'ll trylng to earn respc(:(. Don•t t)(~ aggressive! just pro-t)('t(n~. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20·May 20): )'ou'll be pulled hetwe.:o1 W<lrl: <Uld (l<'!'sonal rcspool>ohili­tks, (.lrganit" }'<>llr tiom· wdl "nd tl!:l om·, i~duding you. "'ill he disappointed in your ptr­f<muanco. A tempting partnership will get y<m thinking al:>nut future p<.>Ssihilities. J 'tars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You need to expand your knowledge and "<kills by attend· ing c ..mrses £)1' spending time \\·ith someone \\'hn c.;,m shnw you '.\'hat to do. Donllet a h.·wc ptt>blctll cloud your vi:l>it:m <lr ~tand in the way of you:r aJvanc~lnt.':nL 3 ~tars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): f).,u•t he f(>okd l>,-an 1>ff<:r <<>m<>onc makes. !f the wntur.: will cost you, cmu;id<'r going it alon~ <lf backing out compktdy. Lov" islouking good and thl:: po?l.•ibility of mixing bu<iness with pleasure should mrn into a nue ,•vem. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be careful n<>ll<> take <>nloo much profe.sO<mally 'IT educat.ion­ally. Yu11 will dis~ppoint s<1111~'<1ll<: )'>tl low if you dnn't haw tintc t<>< him <IT her. A change \Viii be~~~ good ~vc; a W$.t ~1 try nt"w things ur gu to tW\\' p1a~~es. 2 ~tan; 
VIRGO (Aug. 23.Sept. 22): Brace yourself and prepare to be practical. no nmtter what is thrown ymtr way. You haw to think before you act if you want to wme out on top. 
Don't let your emotions get involved in y<l<lf &chi(>tK A onistak,• will be hard to rcctofy. 
4 •tars 

UBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): D<m't get llllglj• <>T ~>Veo ~hare y<>llf fedings with s<.llll(.'<IU<' wh() you know will oppose your decisions. rx...·cption is apparent hut. if you questil>n the infmmation heing 11iwn, you will see the truth and can act accordingly ..l stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone is Ukdy to give you fabe information. Foc·us more on lo\·e ;md finding common gl\l!Utd with whoever you >(l<'nd the most time with. If yoto an· on the ~rum· page, Y<>U <•:on fight whatever baUles }01• f""~' togdhcr. ·' stars 
SAGtr1.'A.RltJS (No\'. 22-f.lec. 21): O<.>n't he too sure that things will pan out the way ~omectne lk1S sug:g.ested.l.a.'S.t minute t.~hanges may leave you in a hind< Tum on th~.~ d1am1 and use past exl"'ricnce to alter the colli'M: of the ch<mges being made. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (f.lee. 22-lan. 19): A .:arcer cbattg<o may be otl•·re<lth"t geb you think· ing. Hv\\·ewr. un.:e you weigh the pr~ and c<>ns. you may want t<> reneg<>tiatc he-fore you proc.,.,....t. A gnt>d frienJ <>r lnwr will point oot some very in~>::resting underlying .:lauses. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. I 8): Don"t get o,·edy emotional t'l' let anyone back you iutt' a ~·omer N ;m argunwut Stay ,.,lm and handle what<~\'tr c<mle.• F>Ur w"y with clw.s. dig· 
nity •nd n·•traint. G.-t allllte f..,;·ts: enwti<mal OO<"C!)tion is :opp~re!ll. ZWon 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Man:h 20): As ltmg 3.$ you d<on't lru;;t anyone with your money you 
will •urvi vo. Set!lements, legalitk~ and investments will aU he subject to dt'C<'ption and poor management Stay in t!w loop at alltim•s if you want things to turn out in your fllv<W, 5 stars 
Birthday Baby; Y<Ju '"" imaginatiw and drawn to the unusuaL You are pa"'ionate, .eu;;itivc, open and romantic. Ynu striw fhr mental stimulation. 
Eugenia's \V('b sires: wgmialasl.comft>r corifidl!l>!inl comrtltmums. t:ny:~ptu:·e.rYJittleu_gnti<li~1st for Eugeuil.l'$ blog. a."s'tr().(1(1~··b:·t>.com for ftm 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE ()BSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, January 20, 2009 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
A look at the Big East 
Irish sit in middle of Big East standings 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
The Big East season is three weeks old and so far, there haven't been many surprises ­it's tough to v.in on the road, thP teams who are perennial bottom­feeders find themselves in the cellar again and the regular-sea­son champion i.<; harder to predict than guessing what will happen on "Lost." Here's a look at the standings: 
No.10 Marquette (16-2, 5-0) 
The Golden Eagles have bene­fited from playing a relatively easy portion of their Big East schedule, but they beat the teams they should beat, which is what you need to do to survive in thP Big East. They passed their first test on Saturday, winning on the road against a tough Providence team. 
No. 12 Louisville (13-3, 4-0) 
Louisville could easily be 1-3 right now. If Villanova could have made a layup in the final seconds, the Cardinals would've lost to the Wildcats. If Notre Dame hadn't forgotten how to score late in the game, they would've lost to the Irish. And they were behind Saturday against a Pittsburgh team that was ranked No. 1 in the country. But here they are, undefeated in conference play with a big road game against · Syracuse on the horizon Sm1day. 
No.3 Connecticut (16-1, 5-1) 
After dropping their confer-
see OVERVIEW/page 18 


Teanz must greatly improve on defense 
In the early part of this decade, the Dallas Mavericks were sometimes derisively referred to as the "Alias Mavericks." The nickname poked fun at the fact 
·that the offensively­charged Mavs had no D. 
Well, if Notre Dame doesn't step it up on the defensive end, Big East oppo­nents might justifiably start ealling the Irish "Notre Arne." 

"The team has repeatedly struggled to get stops, especial­ly during crucial situations. The problem has never been more evident than during Saturday's 93-74 Sf~tback at Syracuse. The Orange owned the Irish inside on the way to a 54-24 edge in points in the paint. 
Notre Dame fought baek sev­eral times during the second half, cutting its deficit to five or six points. But the Irish also repeatedly lacked the tough­ness to get a key stop. 
For a team with a typical rotation of four seniors and three juniors, Notre Dame looked surprisingly rattled on the defensive end during key moments against Syracuse and last Monday against Louisville. 
The Irish are· supposed to be 

see 'D' UP/page 18 

Fran Tolan 
Associate Sports Editor 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
r 
Irish stars join new pro league 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
With the economy hitting rock bottom and the job market presenting a slim. amount of opportunities for graduating seniors, a few Irish players ean rest easy -they'll have a job come April. Four graduat­ing Irish players notched spots in the inaugural Women's Professional Soccer draft Fridav. 
Senior forward/midfield­er Brittany aock was the first Notre Dame player snatched up. She was selected by the Los Angeles Sol in the first round as the fifth overall piek. Bock was a two-time All­America and a semifinalist for the Hermann Trophy. Despite being plagued by a knee injury early on in the postseason. Hoek ranks 12th in sehool history with 
46 career goals and 121 points. 
Hermann Trophy winner Kerri Hanks went directly after Bock to the St. Louis Athletica. Hanks is one of only four players to earn the Hermann twice in her collegiate career. Known for her aggressive style and perseverance, Hanks holds a combined 67 reeords for Notre Dame, the Big East and the NCAA. In addition, Hanks passed soccer icon Mia Ilamm in eareer assists before this year's College Cup even started in Car·y. N.C. 
The baekbone of the Irish defense and a large part of the reason Notre Dame made it all the way to the title game rested on senior def(mder Carrie Dew. Dew was selected as the 12th pick by the FC Gold Pride, a team based out of San 
see DRAFTIpage 17 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

North Balti111ore' s Wills shines for Irish 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Last' summer, millions from all corners of the world dili­gently· watched the 2008 Olympies in Beijing. For most. it was just a source of national pride. hut for Notre Dame sophomore swimmer Connor Wills, it was also a cham~e to watch a few of his former tHa.rnrnates go for the gold. 
Wills is a graduate and ath­letic product of the North Baltimore Aquatic Club, a very highly regarded swim acade­my that has produced seven rerent Olympians. Among them is Miehaol Phelps, who won eight gold medals in Beijing and bPeamn tlw high­est gold medal rneipinnt in men's swimming history. Katie Hoff, who earned a silver medal and two· bronzns for lwr individual medley and freestyle performanf~es, also trained at North Baltimore. 
"North Baltimore Aquatie 
club was intense," said Willis, who began swimming at the age or live. 
"He is quiet, talented, and smooth." coach Tim Welsh said of Wills. "The water likes him and he likes the water." 
Wills developed most as an athlete outside of the arena of high school sports. 
"High school swimming in Baltimore wasn't serious, not like it is in the Midwest." Wills said. "On the east coast it's all about elub swimming, so North Baltimore Aquatic Club was ~:=tsically my high school team. 

When Wills was just 16 years old, he qualified for the Olympic tria Is at the junior nationals competition. He said he earnPd a spot mostly as a rnsult of' good coaching. 
"It was completely unexpect­ed," Wills said. "I dropped four seconds in a two-hundred met<'r event, which is pretty unusual." 
see WILLS/page 18 
FOOTBALL 

ND hires Alford as ne-w coach 
Observer Staff Report 

Irish head coach Charlie Weis announced Monday that Notre Dame has hired Tony Alford as running baeks eoach. 
Alford has coached running baeks for I 4 years, most recently at Louis.ville. He also spent time at Iowa State, Washington, Kent State and Mount Union. 
Under Alford. Louisville aver­aged I 64.5 yards rushing per game and scored 18 rushing touchdowns. 
The new f:oach was a run­ning back at Colorado State from 1987-90, and was named an honobble mention sHlection on USA Today's All-American team in 1989. · 
Alford replaces Mike Haywood, who accepted the head coaching job at Miami (Ohio) after spending four sea­sons with the Irish. 
~. 








