

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
swine flu case at ND 
Student recovers after experiencing symptoms last week; Health Services, officials investigate 

ByJENN METZ News Writer 
The University announced a case of swine flu at Notre Dame wao; confinned by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (OX) Tuesday. 
The affected student, after falling ill almost a week ago, has recov­ered and is in good health. It is the first confirmed case of the disease -North American Human Influenza A (H1N1), commonly known a<; swine flu -in Indiana. 
An e-mail sent to faculty, staff and students Tuesday afternoon alerting them of the presence of swine flu on campus encouraged students who experience flu-like symptoms to W,it University Health 
Student injured in possible assault 
Observer Staff Report 
According to a South Bend Tribune report, an 18-year-old Saint Mary's College student was found injured Saturday morning after possibly being drugged. 
According to the report, the police found the woman on the 5600 block of Zappia Drive behind a house. The student was found after a suspicious person was reported in the area. 
The South Bend Tribune report said the student had sev­eral cuts on her legs and was bleeding. Reports said the woman looked as though she was sobbing. She had no shoes and her clothes disheveled. 
According to the South Bend Tribune, the woman did not know the events leading up to the police arriving on the scene. The woman said she was a guest at a house party near the scene, hosted by students from the University of Notre Dame. 
The Tribune report said police tested the girl for aJcohol use, and she showed a .18 percent blood alcohol level. The girl reported she did not know where she got her injuries. One oflicer who filed the report said the girl appeared to be more drugged rather than intoxicated. 
According to the South Bend 
see ASSAULT/page 9 Services and faculty and staff to consult their personal physicians. 

University spokesperson Dennis Brown, Dr. Rebecca Moskwinski, director of University Health Services and Kelly Jolliff, St. Joseph County epidemiologist spoke to the press in Saint Liam Hall Tuesday afternoon and said the University is working with state and federal health officials to monitor and respond to the situa­tion. 
The student, whose name, class year and gender were not relea'ied by the University, sought treatment at University Health Services in Saint Liam Hall last Wednesday, one day after feeling ill. 
Moskwinski said Health Services 
see SWINE/page 11 


Commons to open in fall 
Stores, restaurants to be finished on Eddy Street byfootball season 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 

The first set of stores and restaurants at the Eddy Street Commons-a major mixed­use development project cur­rently under construction south of Notre Dame's cam­pus -will be open in time for football season this fall. 
Gregory Hakanen, director of Asset Management and Real Estate, said there are already a number of restau­rants and stores that are in 
see EDDY/page 10 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
University to pay for added security 
ByJENN METZ News Writer 

President Barack Obama's 
pending trip to South Bend for 
the May 17 Commencement 
ceremonies has raised many 
questions. One of them: Who 
will pick up the bill? 

South Bend Police Department spokesperson Captain Phil Trent initially said the department would incur some overtime expenses for added security, however the numbers weren't determined at that point, as Obama's itin­erary was not announced. 
And although it hasn't been announced if Obama will extend his stay overnight, Trent told WSBT last month that the last time a president stayed overnight in South Bend, it cost the city almost $20,000 in overtime costs. 
But this time around, what­ever the cost, the city won't be picking up the tab for extra security incurred by Obama's visit. 
According to a Friday WNDU report, a bill was proposed by members of the South Bend Common Council that would charge event hosts -in this case, Notre Dame -for the extra police necessary for security earlier this month. 
The proposal was tabled, however, at an April 23 meet-
see SECURITY/page 9 
Panel discusses Obama invitation, degree 
Both si'des debate significance of honoring president at Commencenzent cere1nony 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
The meaning of an honorary degree given by a Catholic universi­ty -and whether the award indi­cates support for some or all of the recipient's positions -was ques­tioned by students Tuesday in a debate over the University's invita­tion to Obama to deliver the 2009 Commencement address. 
Seniors Michael Angulo and Briana Miller argued Obama should be honored by the University for his record of public service while junior John Gerardi and fifth-year senior John Souder said Obama's stance on abortion i'> "intrinsically evil," and awarding him an honorary degree suggests support for that position. 
The debate, sponsored by the College of Art.., & Letters, gave stu­dents an opportunity to di'>euss the controversy over Obama "openly and candidly," moderator Colleen Kelly, a junior, said. 
"I understand how many di'iap­prove of Obama, yet I struggle, and have always struggled, with the notion that our support of a politi­cian should boil down to one ISSUe,. "AnbTUI0 Sa.J."d. 
He cited Obama's executive order to shut down Guantanamo Bay military prison and hi<> work to expand health care fhr children a<> reasons Obama should be honored 
see 0 BAMA/ page 11 

PAT COVENEYfThe Observer Students engage in a discussion over what it means to invite and honor President Barack Obama at a panel on Tuesday. 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Students join religious orders page 3 • Cou11cil of Representatives page 6 •Baseball falls to USC 10-5 page 28 • Vie-wpoillt page 12 

page 2 Wednesday, April 29, 2009 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Devil's Academy 

Maybe you're tempted to seek aca­demic counseling at the Dean's Office. Or, considering the magnitude of the decision, maybe you do so at the Grotto. But reconsider: As the economy tumbles and the planet warms, perhaps ifs 
Robert Singer 
time to ask the wicked one who's steering the wheel 
Assistant
toward our doom. 
News Editor 
No, not Charlie ­Lucifer. 
Psychology: The pointless acquisition of vocabulary to describe your prior knowledge of the workings of the human mind and its development. In short, this discipline dresses up your intuition in intellectual jargon. After flawlessly shot­gunning a Keystone, you will learn that the feeling of pride as you high-five your friends is a "conditional emotional response" and not "chillness." 
Business: Upper-level home econom­ics. Instead of being subjected to the humdrums of dinner table etiquette, you will learn the boardroom customs of looking good in a suit while making PowerPoint presentations on mundane topics. Instead of following unimagina­tive recipes to bake pies, you will master the artlessness of plugging data into for­mulas and pie charts. 
Economics: A religion espousing the mathematical laws of an imaginary world in order to gain the esteem of those who are gullible enough to believe those laws apply in our world. Like Aztec priests and American creationists, your models will rarely come close to predict­ing the outcomes of real human society, yet you will be a respected purveyor of the spirits guiding "the economy." As a result, your job prospects will be improved, as you will be elevated in the eyes of business firms and political think tanks alike. 
Program of Liberal Studies (PLS}: To study obsolete methods like Euclidean geometry and Aristotelian philosophy in addition to ancient narratives containing human experiences that cannot be relat­ed to affluent white suburbanites. In essence, you will study form, not con­tent, in the vain hope of acquiring the · intellectual graces of Galileo and enlarg­ing your "Grey's Anatomy" -saturated mind to the same dimensions as the other great thinkers studied in the PLS curriculum. 
Peace Studies: A remedial education program for affiuent white suburbanites who lack a basic understanding of quali­tative ideas such as "human suffering" and more specifically, "genocide" and "famine," as well as knowledge of their historical corollaries. After mastering these rudimentary notions, the focus shifts to a group therapy session in which participants are assured that they bear no responsibility for the realities they have just discovered, that the best way to end war in the Middle East is by continuing a suburban lifestyle heavily reliant on fossil fuels. 
Academic: Like opera singers who spend all of their lives refining their voic­es but never have the opportunity to per­form in front of an audience, someone who devotes his or her life to acquiring knowledge and understanding, but who nonetheless has little chance of express­ing an original or interesting idea. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd. edu 
CORRECTION 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DOES THE 'K' INK-MART STAND FOR? 









Ashley Ward Angela Gillis Meagan Drone Beth Brophy Sam Tulisiak Alyssa Lewanski 
freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman senior LeMans LeMans LeMans LeMans LeMans off-campus 
~·Kinky.,, ..Kickapoo. ,, ..Korean.,, ..Klepto., ~·wal. ,, ..Kindergarten.,, 
Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY !The Observer 

A photo of an aborted fetus was flown over campus by the Center for Blo-Ethlcal reform Tuesday. The group has also displayed photos on the sides and backs of billboard trucks In protest of President Barack Obama's Commencement visit. 
OFFBEAT 

Blown-away Chihuahua reunited with owners 
WATERFORD TOWNSHIP, Mich. -Tinker Bell has been reunited with her owners after a 70-mph gust of wind picked up the six-pound Chihuahua and tossed her out of sight. Dorothy and Lavern Utley credit a pet psychic for guiding them on Monday to a wooded area nearly a mile from where 8-month-old Tmker Bell had been last seen. The brown long-haired dog was dirty and hungry but otherwise OK. 
The Utleys, of Rochester, had set up an outdoor display Saturday at a flea market in Waterford Township, 25 miles northwest of Detroit. 
Deputy quits after wife, monHn-law take squad car 
LAKELAND, Fla. -A Polk County deputy has turned in his badge after his \\'Tie and mother-in-law took his patrol car out for a joyride. Officials said the 44-year-old deputy resigned Monday after serv­ing 21 years with the sher­iff's office. 
The arrest report said his wife and mother-in-law face charges of vehicle theft, theft of a firearm and impersonat­ing a law-enforcement offi­cer. His wife also faces charges of possession of a firearm ofa convicted felon. 
A third person riding in the back seat also was arrested. 
Pollee arrest woman with barrel of bear candles 
CASPER, Wyo. -Police arrested a 28-year-old woman after finding a barrel of cinna­mon bear candies in her hotel room that police believe had been stolen &om a local restau­rant Officers responded to a 911 call at a hotel room where the woman was staying on Saturday evening. Officers determined that the call had been plared by a<rident 
However, officers saw the bar­rel of candies in the room and recognized it as having come &om Poor Boy.; Steak House. 
Information oompi1edfrom the AssociatedPress. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
LIJ 
X: 
!C( 
LIJ 
3: 
..... 
<
(,) 

....0 HIGH 60 HIGH 50 HIGH 73 HIGH 62 

LOW 47 LOW 47 LOW 57 LOW 40 
IN BRIEF 

Author Ben Marcus will read selections from his work at Hammes Bookstore today at 7:30p.m. Following the reading, there will be a short question and answer session. 
A Spring concert titled "Collegium Musicum" will take place today from 7 p.m. to 7:45 p.m. and 8:30p.m. to 9:15p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The program will include Renaissance and Baroque sacred music. Tickets are $3 and can be purchased at the door. 
Co-sponsored by the College of Science and the Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases, the "Running for a New Ara: 5K run/1 mile walk" will be held today at 6 p.m. The race starts at the Hesburgh Ubrary Quad. Help raise money and aware­ness for Niemann-Pick Type C Disease Research. Register at shop.nd.edu with a fee of$10. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show the film, "The Class," Thursday at 9:30 
p.m. in Browning Cinema. Purchase tickets online at per­formingarts.nd.edu, visit or call the Ticket Office at 574-631­2800. 
The graduates of the Creative Writing MFA Program will give a reading from their rmal theses Friday in the LaFortune Ballroom at 7 p.m. The read­ings will be delivered in rapid succession. The event is open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 53 HIGH 63 LOW 37 LOW 45 
Atlanta 78 I 59 Boston 54 I 52 Chicago 58 I 40 Denver 76 I 42 Houston 84 169 Los Angeles 65 I 53 Minneapolis 58 I 42 New York 75 I 48 Philadelphia 65 I 60 Phoenix 92 I 64 Seattle 60 I 43 St. Louis 72 I 53 Tampa 86 I 67 Washington 71 I 61 
Wednesday, April29, 2009 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Athlete graduation rate 



Students take leap of faith 
ranked No.1 in nation 
Undergraduates voice their desires, decisions to become priests, sisters 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA News Writer 
In addition to the various awards and accolades Notre Dame's athletic teams have received this year, the athletic department was recently ranked first in the nation in graduation success rate (GSR). 
Notre Dame's 98 percent suc­cess rate is equaled only by the United States Naval Academy. Fourteen of the university's ath­letic teams were ranked in the top ten in the nation, which is the most of any university. It is also a record for Notre Dame, who had 11 athletic teams in the top ten last year. 
Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick said being ranked number one in the country is a tremendous achievement. 
"We have the same reaction to winning the GSR as we do to our women's basketball team winning the Final Four in St. Louis or the soccer team, the women's soccer team, winning the NCAA champi­onship," Swarbrick said in a video available on Notre Dame's Web site. "That's our goal and when we count our national champi­onships at this university we're counting GSR performance as a national championship win." 
According to John Heisler, the senior associate athletics director, the NCAA measures the GSR by studying each of the 119 Division I colleges and universities in areas of academic eligibility and retention of student-athletes. This means that when student athletes drop out or transfer due to aca­demics, the school's GSR meas­urement will decrease. 
Heisler said student athletes at 

Notre Dame succeed academical­
ly because of the various support 
systems they have. 
"You've got coaches and people here who are supporting them, as well as Academic Services for Student Athletes," Heisler said. 
Academic Services for Student Athletes provides help in many areas, including tutoring and making sure students are on track to graduate. Ever since the organization has stepped up its efforts, the student athletes' grade point averages have risen every semester. 
"The whole notion [of Academic Services for Student-Athletes] is to keep them on track," Heisler said. "It's a tremendously valu­able service relative to our athlet­ic department." 
Student athletes at Notre Dame face many challenges in succeed­ing academically, including a lack of time to study and increasingly long training programs. 
"[One ofthe challenges is] prob­ably just the time involved," Heisler said. "If you're a varsity athlete, there's just not enough hours in the day. Also, there's ji.Ist not much of an off season when it comes to athletics anymore." 
Heisler said Notre Dame stu­dent athletes are aware of the rig­ors of the curriculum when they get here -and in many cases it even influences their decision to attend -which is part of the rea­son they do so well. 
"I think if you come here even as a student athlete, you absolute­ly understand [how difficult the work will be]," Heisler said. "It's a big part of why you come here." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
By SARAH MERVOSH News Writer 
When asked as a child what he 
wanted to be when he grew up, 
instead of saying he wanted to be 
an astronaut or baseball player, 
senior Simon Carian said he 
wanted to be a priest. And unlike 
most, he never grew out of his 
childhood dream. 
Carlan, along with a few other Notre Dame graduates, will be joining the seminary to become a priest after graduation. 
Fr. Ed Obermiller, a Holy Cross priest in the Otlice of Vocation, said he knows of at least four men entering religious life in the fall, outside of Old College, the program for undergraduates who are discerning to become priests in Holy Cross. There are nine men entering religious life from Old College, he said. 
"I know that there are more out there, I just don't know who they are," Obermiller said. 
Obermiller said he has no knowledge of how many women are entering religious life. 
Carlan, who lives in Morrissey Hall, said his time at Notre Dame has helped him prepare for priesthood because he has learned how to interact with and understand all types of people. 
"Saint Paul says somewhere that you have to be all. things to all people. If that's true for all of us, that's especially true for a priest," he said. 
"A priest has to be somebody who is approachable, somebody that you can trust, somebody who is respected but also some­body who is very human. The sort of guy you might go and have a beer with," Carian said. 

"This place really has helped me where she will get a degree in to grow in sort of the human ele­elementary education. ment, which is so important for a Schreck said when entering priest.'' Notre Dame she planned on 
Carian said there are also being a doctor and intended to social benefits to studying on the stay all four years and then go on Notre Dame campus. to medical school. 
"Here at Notre Dame, you "I guess I realized that that's learn how to interact with and be not what I really wanted to do. I friends with normal people," would be a good doctor and I'm Carian said. sure it would be a fine way of life 
Senior Andy Bulso, who is join­but that that's not what would ing the seminary to become a really fulfill me as a person," she diocesan priest after graduation, said. also said living in the dorms at "It's going to be difficult of Notre Dame has helped him in course, to leave this place. It's his preparation for priesthood. beautiful and I have so many 
"Just hav­ friends here. It's  
ing that expe­ going to be hard  
rience of liv­ to say goodbye  
ing in the dorm kind of gives you  "Living a celibate life. if thats not a challenge,  to," Schreck said. One of the major issues stu­ 
experience or  and not a sacrifice for  dents consider  
knowledge of how life in the dorm kind of plays out," Bulso  you, you ·re not the sort ofperson who would make the best priest. ,,  when making the decision to enter religious life is the sacrifices they will have to  
s a i d . "Especially in terms of the  Simon Carlan senior  make, particular­ly the vow of life­long celibacy.  

drinking cul­
ture and peo­
ple's attitudes 

towards sex. Just getting to know 
regular guys in the dorm and 
making friends with people." 
"So when in the future if I'm 
working with college students, 
I'll have been there. I can say this 
was my experience and first of 
all, establish that kind of connec­
tion with the person and second 
of all, be able to understand bet­
ter where they are coming from, 
and therefore be able to advise 
them better." 

Carlan said he came to Notre 
Dame with the intention of 
becoming a priest, however 
when sophomore Sara..~ Johnson 
was applying to colleges, she 
"had no idea" that she wanted to 
become a sister, and applied to 
Notre Dame "just because I 
thought the campus was pretty. 
"It was kind of random. Notre 
Dame was the only Catholic col­
lege that I applied to," she said. 
Johnson said before coming to 
Notre Dame, the only time she 
had wanted to be a nun was in 
kindergarten. 

"In kindergarten, I wanted to be a nun because my teacher was a nun," she said. "But it kind of went away for like ever. I never thought about it until I came here." 
Though only a sophomore, Johnson will be graduating early next year in order to teach at a Catholic school for a year and then join a cloister. 
Johnson said her experience with the sacraments and the Catholic community at Notre Dame helped her make her deci­sion to become a sister and grad­uate early. 
"I was going to do four years, but I just realized looking at how many credits I had ... I would have enough credits next year without taking extra credits," she said. "When Peter heard the Lords call on the boat he didn't wait around." 
When asked if she was nervous about making a life-long decision at an early age, Johnson said, "it is kind of freeing. Once it gets closer I'll probably have the jit­ters [but] when you are so excit­ed about giving your life to the Lord, it's hard to be nervous." 
Sophomore Margaret Schreck is becoming a sister, but has cho­sen not to graduate from Notre Dame. She will enter a convent in Nashville, Tenn., in August "One of the 
biggest ones for 
me is not having 
a family," said Bulso. "When 
you're growing up you kind of 
want to have a family. When I 
was here I did date just to kind of 
make sm·e." 

"It's a challenge. living a celi­
bate life, ifthat's not a challenge, 
and not a sacrifice for you, 
you're not the sort of person who 
would make the best priest," 
Carian said. "I think the sort of 
people who would make the best 
priests are also the sort of people 
who are going to make the best 
husband..<;, the best fathers." 

Carian referred to something 
his Archbishop said to him to 
explain how he felt about not 
having a family. HL.., Archbishop 
has a brother who has four chil­
dren, and told Carian, "There 
are four people in this world that 
call that man father. But every­
one in this world calls me 
father." 

"You are almost having like a bigger family that you couldn't have had otherwise. Even though it is a different kind of family, not a biological family but a spiritual family," Bulso said. 
Obermiller said it is not typical to enter religious life right out of college, just as most people do not get married right after col­lege. 
Seventy-five percent of the men who enter Holy Cross have done some work or life experi­ence before they enter, he said. 
Carian is most excited about the fact that as a priest, his job will not just be a job he leaves at the office at the end of the work­day, but he said "you are always a priest. You are always doing what a priest does." 
Carian also explained how people in the religious life get to participate in the momentous events in others' lives. 
"You are with people and involved in people's lives in all the great moments of their lives. Somebody gets married, you're there. Somebody had a baby, you are there to baptize them. Somebody is dying or their loved one is dying, you are there for them," Carian said. "These are the great moments of human life. How cool that you get to be involved in peoples lives and at those times." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



Wrednesday, April 29, 2009

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Saint Mary's announces service award winners 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
After demonstrating a variety of service within the community, the Office of Civil and Social Engagement (OCSE) announced the winners of the 2009 service awards. Eight members of the Saint Mary's community were awarded this past week. 
The OCSE offers three different categories of awards. The Spirit of Service award io; distributed every two years. In addition, there are five annual service awards, each named after a Sister of the Holy Cross. The final award is the Patricia Arch Green award, which is distributed by the College Academy of Tutoring program (CAT). 
Carrie Call, director of the OCSE said members of the Saint Mary's community nominate the winners each year. 
"IThe winners] were nominated by people in the Saint Mary's College community and the Division of Mission selected the finalists based on their records of service and their letters of recommenda­tion," Call said. 
According to the College's Web site, the Spirit of Service award is "the highest service-related award bestowed by the College." 
The award is presented to a stu­dent from the College, as well as a Sister of the Holy Cross. This year's winners were Sr. Gabriella Doran and Deanna Molosky. 
According to the Web site, Doran has been interested in service since she was young. For the past 10 years she has worked with the vocations program as an outreach member. 
likewise, Molosky continuously provides service to her community. Molosky works with the Sisters of the Holy Cross, as well as with the children at the Early Childhood Development Center. She has taken several mission trips to help those in need around the world. 
This is the first year the College has offered the service awards. According to the Web site, the awards were created "to honor the excellent work done by Saint Mary's students in a variety of vol­unteer activities." 
Arlene Forney, a senior at the College, was the recipient of one of the five annual volunteer service awards. Forney won the Sister Kathleen Anne Nelligan award for Spiritual Service. 
Another one of the five service winners was Caitlin Brodmerkel, who won the Sister Olivia Marie Hutcheson award for Service in the Health Field. 
Brodmerkel works at the Sister Maura Brannick Health Center providing those without insurance health care. She also volunteers at the Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center Outreach Program. 
The Sister Maria Concepta McDermott award for Service in Education was awarded to Alma Bravo. According to the Web site Bravo is actively involved with the Warren Primary Center helping in English-as-a-New-Language (ENL) classrooms. 
Rebecca Faunce was awarded the Sister Ouistine Healy award for Service with Women. Faunce works with the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL). She also is a member of Feminists United as well as the Women's Resource Center. One of her other many accomplishments is helping to put on the Saint Mary's Monologues. 
The final winner of the five serv­ice awards was Meghan Larsen, winner of the Sister M. Olivette Whalen award for General Service. Larsen has been an active member of Campus Ministry. Larsen also actively participated in this year's Dance Marathon. She has worked extensively with a youth group at Christ the King Church, and has completed her Lay Ministry Certification. 
This is the third year the Patricia Arch Green award has been dis­tributed. The award is given to a member of the CAT program each year. The winner of this year's award was Alicia Wilkins. According to the Web site, Wilkins has volunteered 476 hours of her time to the CAT program through­out the past two years. 
A dinner will be heid in honor of all of the recipients Wednesday evening. 
"The dinner is for all award recipients, and each person invites up to three bTUests," Call said. 
The OCSE has awarded the awards for the past few years, and is proud of this year's recipients. 
"The Spirit of Service Award has been given sinr,e 2002, the Patricia Arch Green Award since 2007, and this is the first year for the five named awards," Call said. "We're so proud of the award winners. They all exemplify the heart and service at Saint Mary's." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


23 faculty members honored 
exemplary teaching, exemplary advising,"  ..When a student goes on about how this professor influnced  and sent letters to the 20 recipi­ents of the awards in mid­ 
Jacobs said. "And we want to thank and  his or her life, that·s a meaningful and valued nomination.··  April. Theology pro­fessor Gary Anderson was  
show  our  among the 2009  
appreciation for the many faculty who  Dennis Jacobs associate provost  Joyce Award recipients. He said he is grate- 
have devoted  ful  to  his  stu­ 
themselves  dents for nomi­ 

to teaching and advising nating him, as well as the undergraduate students." theology department for 
The award recipients were inspiring his teaching. chosen from nominations ''I take my teaching submitted by students and responsibilities very serious­faculty members. Over 255 ly," Anderson said. "Most of nominations were submitted my years of teaching were for the two awards, Jacobs spent outside of Notre said. Dame, but I can say with 
The majority of the nomi­complete honesty that I have nations come from students, done my best teaching here who Jacobs said are best because of the vigorous able to describe the impact intellectual and religious professors and advisors environment of this have made on their lives. University." 
"When a student goes on The other recipients of the about how this professor Joyce Award included pro-
ItMay Be Time for an Upgrade". 
If you're graduating this year, we'd like to help with your increasing financial needs. 
Asigned letter of acceptance from your future employer may help you to qualify for an upgrade to aVisa® Platinum Card. 



Contact Us Today! 
fessors Carl Ackermann, Seth Brown, Noriko Hanabusa, Paul Helquist, Mary Catherine Hilkert, Joshua Kaplan, Ian Kuijt, Gary Lamberti, Sylvia Lin, David O'Connor, David Ruccio, William Schmuhl, Robert Sedlack, Mihir Sen, Dennis Snow, John Staud, Henry Weinfield, Michelle Whaley and Susan Youens. 
A single selection commit­tee appointed by the office of the provost chose the Dockweiler Award winners as individuals who "help shape a student's future, but not confined to a classroom interaction," Jacobs said. 
The 2009 Dockweiler Award winners were math professor Frank Connolly, assistant dean for under­graduate studies Ava Preacher and associate director of international studies Juliett Mayinja. 
Jacobs said the University gives the Joyce and Dockweiler awards not only to honor professors and advisors, but also to set an example of excellence in teaching and advising. 
"We want to provide exem­plars," he said. "That by recognizing excellence and holding up an advisor who has really impacted stu­dents' lives, it inspires oth­ers to follow in their foot­
steps."  
The  winners  of  both  
awards receive  a  $1,500  
cash prize and  a  plaque.  
During  the  May  17  

Commencement ceremonies, they will also be called by name to stand for recogni­tion, Jacobs said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL News Writer 
The Office of the Provost awarded 20 Notre Dame fac­ulty members with Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. Awards for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching and three faculty members with Dockweiler Awards for Excellence in Undergraduate Advising this month. 
The awards are the only University-wide honors given to faculty members for work with undergraduate students, Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs said. 
"It's  a  testimony that we  
value  this  
work  

influenced his or her life, that's a meaningful and val­ued nomination," he said. "I want to thank them for sub­mitting nominations. And I have to say for the faculty who have won and written back to me, one of the things they always say is 'I want to thank the people who chose to nominate me."' 
For the Joyce Award, seven selection committees representing the disciplines of business, engineering, fine arts and architecture, humanities, language and literature and science and social science made recom­mendations to Jacobs' office. Jacobs said he compiled the committees' rec­ommendations 


Proprie~ 
Warren & Hr.d<1 
?irs/On71nJ71zu:z in ::loami 
Sine~ 1951 
Spec;f~!izing in lti!liilfi Entrees 
Tv~. • Thurs.z 5:00 PM • l1 ;00 ?M fri. • S-It.: 5:00 PM • 1:00 AM 537 North St Louis • Sout'"l Berd, IN S74*2l.l·2.a<.4 

---:::r.=.:.=::<~::"'­
NCUA
----··"'-..­

Wednesday, April 29, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER1sWIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Men acquitted for 2005 bombings 
LONDON -Three men charged in London's 2005 suicide bombings -Britain's deadliest attack since \Vorld War II -were acquitted of the most serious offenses against them Tuesday in the latest terrorism case to frustrate prosecutors. 
A jury found Waheed Ali, Sadeer Saleem, and Mohammed Shakil not guilty of conspir­ing with four suicide bombers who blew themselves up on three subway cars and a bus on July 7, 2005, killing 52 people. Ali and Shakil were convicted of a lesser charge -conspiring to attend a terror training camp -and will be sentenced Wednesday. 
The men were the only people ever charged in the attack. 
Alleged Al-Qaida leader jailed 
BAGHDAD -The Iraqi government pre­sented the first image of the alleged leader of an al-Qaida front group Tuesday in a bid to prove the right suspect was in custody despite skepticism that he even exists. 
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki called Abu Omar al-Baghdadi 'the head of evil' and accused him of trying to incite a sectarian civil war and working with other insurgents who remained loyal to Saddam Hussein. 
'This criminal had close relations with the former regime and maintained a sinister alliance with Saddam's followers,' he said in a statement released by his office. 
Authorities described al-Baghdadi's cap­ture, which was announced last week, as a major setback for Sunni insurgents trying to intensify attacks after a relative lull.lsrael started building the separation barrier in the West Bank in 2002, portraying it as a defense against Palestinian gunmen and sui­cide bombers. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man clings to car in police chase 
FORSYfH, Ga. -The owner of trailer less semi clung to the back of the truck Tuesday as a sus­pected carjacker led police on a 50-mile chase down an interstate in Georgia. The semi eventu­ally slowed enough for the owner to jump off near the end of the chase. 
When the suspected crujacker, Milo Banks, 27, stopped the semi, armed officers surrounded it, breaking through the windows before wrestling him to the ground. 
A state trooper was treated at a hospital for a superficial gunshot wound in the shoulder, Georgia State Patrol spokesman Gordy Wright said. It was not immediately clear where the shot came from. 
NYPD officers plead not guilty 
NEW YORK -A New York police officer called to help a drunken woman get home safely instead raped her as she lay face down in her bed, semiconscious and cov­ered in vomit while his partner acted as a lookout, prosecutors alleged Tuesday. 
Kenneth Moreno and Franklin Mata were suspended from duty and pleaded not guilty Tuesday to charges of rape, burglary and official misconduct in the Dec. 6 inci-· dent in the East Village neighborhood of Manhattan. 
The two officers were held on $175,000 bail. Their attorneys disputed the woman's version of the events. 
LOCAL NEWS Plea deal rejected in cruelty case 
HAMMOND, Ind. -A man whose animal cru­elty conviction led state lawmakers to pass a law making sexual relations with animals a crime has lost the chance at a lighter sentence on charges of downloading obscene images and videos involving sex and animals. 
A federal judge on Tuesday threw out a plea agreement that would have given Michael Bessigano a two-year prison sentence. 
U.S. District Judge Philip Simon said the case doesn't justifY a sentence below federal guide­lines, which call for 33 to 41 months in prison. 
Bessigano had entered a guilty plea in January. 
INDIA 


No happily ever after for 'Slumdog' stars 
Ali and Ismail continue to live in slum-like conditions after Oscar winningfilm 
Associated Press 
MUMBAI, India -Rubina 
Ali's house is flooded with 
sewer water, and her feet 
itch. She's discovered a 
world of creepy-crawlies in 
the opaque gray water: 
scorpions, rats and slithery 
creatures with lots of legs. 
Two months ago, the 
child star of the hit movie 
'Slumdog Millionaire' was 
worrying about what to 
wear to the Oscars. Now 
she has come home to a 
very different problem: 
How to get the fetid water 
out of her family's one­
room shack. 
The 9-year-old picked up a plastic bucket Monday and began to scoop, but it was hopeless. "There are a lot of rats," she told the Associated Press with a shudder, standing in water above her ankles. "In the night also." 
Eight Oscars and $326 million in box office receipts have so far done little to improve the lives of the film's two impoverished child stars. 

Rubina and co-star Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail have been showered with gifts and brief bursts of fame, but their day-to­day lives are little changed. has described the trust as feet. It's they who are drag­Patil International School, In some ways, things have substantial, but won't tell ging their feet," he added. which offers coveted -and gotten worse: Azhar's anyone how much -not There have been other pricey -international bac­neighborhood has grown even the parents -for fear offers, but none have mate­calaureate degrees, also crowded and tense. of making the children vul­rialized so far. offered them scholarships, Rubina's house is flooded. nerable to exploitation. Developers promised the though school officials And fame has brought both Azhar and Rubina fin­children houses in a fancy declined to comment. opportunity and shame. ished their first term at the new development billed as And then there are the 
If there is a happily ever English-language school the an eco-friendly sanctuary of scandals. after, Azhar and Rubina filmmakers enrolled them villas and high-rise apart­A few days after the haven't found it yet. in and plan to return in ments being built in Kerala, British tabloid News of the 
'Slumdog' filmmakers June when classes resume. on India's far-southern tip. World reported that insist they've done their Noshir Dadrawala, a Jai But it's nearly 1,000 miles Rubina's father offered to best to help. They set up a Ho trustee, said the families away, and neither family sell her to one of its trust, called J ai Ho, after have been shown several wants to leave Mumbai. reporters disguised as a the hit song from the film, apartments in Mumbai, but The government offered rich sheik, an Indian busi­to ensure the children get rejected them all. them apartments closer to nessman who lives in Qatar proper homes, a good edu­"They said it's too far home, but has yet to deliv­came forward with an offer cation and a nest egg when from where they are now er. By law, politicians can­to pay for the girl's educa­they finish high school. living. We are going to do a not distribute such gifts in tion through college, her They also donated second round. We hope the run-up to national elec­family said. $747,500 to a charity to they will like what we are tions, which conclude next Qureshi denies all wrong­help slum kids in Mumbai. offering," he said. month. doing, and has not been 
Producer Christian Colson "We are not dragging our The families say the D.Y. charged with any crime. 

U.S. can't vouch for cancer assurances 
Associated Press health assessment for the Agency for until wells were shut down in 1987. 
Toxic Substances and DL~ease Registry, The agency offered no new health 
said at a meeting in Atlanta. "We know conclusions but will pull the flawed doc­
In an about-face, the government too much now." ument from the Internet while incorpo­Tuesday disavowed a 12-year-old feder­Sick veterans, who became known as rating new science to rewrite what al report that found little or no cancer "poisoned patriots," and their advocates Cibulas called "troublesome" sections. risk for adults who lived on a Marine never believed the report's conclusions. Jerry Ensminger, a retired Marine base where drinking water was contam­Their families have ftled claims for $33.8 who has spent years digging through inated for three decades. billion in damages. A study continues on military and health documents at Camp 
Up to 1 million people could have been whether fetuses might have been Lejeune and believes his daughter exposed to toxins that seeped from a harmed. Janey's leukemia death at age 9 was due neighboring dry cleaner and industrial The ageney, charged with protecting to the water, welcomed the govern­activity at Camp Lejeune, N.C., federal public health around toxic sites, said it ment's reversal on the report. oflicials say. Now, a report that mini­was rescinding the 1997 assessment on "We are in Day 99 of change, and by mized the cancer threat for adults has health effects of water that resident~ of God we're starting to see it," he said, been discredited. the base drank and bathed in, because meaning the change promised by 
"We can no longer stand.behind the of omissions and scientific inaccuracy. President Barack Obama. The report in accuracy of the infommtion in that docu­That study found the water contamina­question dates to Bill Clinton's adminis­ment," William Cibulas, director of tion began in the 1950s and continued tration. 
Wednesday, April29, 2009 

page6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Architect presents on campus construction 

The UPS Store 
· "May Move Out" '09 NOTRE DAME 
MONDAY· THURSDAY AND SATURDAY 
10am-5pm 
FRIDAY 
8am-5pm 
FLANNER CIRCLE: WELSH FAMILY HALL Monday. May 4 -Saturday, May 9 Thursday, May 14 -Saturday, May t 6 Monday. May 18 8-5pm 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS Wednesday, May 6-Saturday, May 9 



By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed the future of construc­tion occurring on campus as well as a potential spring con­cert in their meeting Tuesday night. 
University Architect Doug Marsh spoke to the Council regarding the projects that will be completed within the next two to three years. 
"We have quite a few proj­ects happening this summer," he said. 
Marsh highlighted projects that have already begun. He said they would complete the parking lot project next to The Morris Inn. The lot has been lowered to open views for Ryan Hall, which will also be completed in time for the 
fall semester. 
Geddes Hall, the new home of the Center for Social Concerns and other campus offices, will be completed this summer. 
"The area around Geddes will be all done and greened up like nothing had ever hap­pened by the time you get back," Marsh said. 
Three dorms will undergo renovations while students are away for the summer. Breen-Phillips and Zahm will both be selectively renovated. 
These dorms will receive new windows and new plumbing and will have their bathrooms gutted. 
Lewis Hall will also undergo a renovation with a new patio and a barbecue built on the backside of the dorm. 
After students return in the fall, there will be three proj­ects that will be completed during the first semester. 
Both the soccer teams and lacrosse teams will have new homes as of October. The new soccer stadium, Alumni Field is projected to be completed in September and the lacrosse field being projected to end in early October. 
Stinson-Remick, the new engineering hall will be com­pleted by Christmas. Marsh said the centerpiece of the hall would be the 8,500 square-foot "clean room" which will be used by researchers of nanotechnolo­gy. 
"It is an interesting, great time to be here," Marsh said. 
After Marsh finished his presentation, Pete Bruckbauer and Pat Gartland presented on the steps it would take to bring a large­scale concert to Notre Dame. 
After considering a number of possible venues, Gartland said the best one to hold a large concert would be the football stadium, but it pres­ents some foreseeable prob­lems. 
One of the biggest issues is availability. The athletic department has control over when the Notre Dame Stadium can and cannot be used. 
"Between the football sea­son, the time it snows, and the Blue and Gold game, the Stadium is only available for about a week and a half dur­ing the school year," he said 
Another area important to the outcome of the concert is its financing. Gartland spoke of possibly looking into corpo­rate sponsorship as a means of paying for the concert. 
After presenting this, Bruckbauer then presented a hypothetical idea for a con­cert. This plan included using NBC as a possible corporate sponsor. 
"They could possibly broad­cast the first ever concert from Notre Dame Stadium to the rest of America," he said. 
Also included in his plan was a list of bands that would be appealing for both alumni and students. Among these were Bon J ovi, Bruce Springsteen, U2, Dave Matthews Band and Coldplay. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

RecSports RecSpy Winners for 2009 
Undergrad Female ofthe Year MaryForr 
Undergrad Male ofthe Year Carl Andersen 
Grad/Faculty/Staff Female ofthe Year Brittany Baron 
Grad/Faculty/Staff Male of the Year Matt Hamel 
Team ofthe Year Weapons ofMass Destruction (CoRee Flag Football) 
Game of the Year Men's Interhall Football Championship: Siegfried vs. Keenan 
Fans of the Year Welsh Family: Women's Flag Football 

Wednesday, April29, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 8,016.95 -8.05 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,862 129 1,805 2,121,800,563 



COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 

PLUS UNKED TO THE D (OWL) 0.00 0.00 9.46 BK OF AMERICA {BAC) ~8.63 -0.77 8.15 MERRILL LYNCH (DWMT) 0.00 0.00 9.46 CmGROUP{C) -0.31 ·0.18 2.89 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.77 +0.081 3.00 13-WEEK BILl +33.33 +0.030 0.12 30-YEAR BOND +3.05 +0.117 3.96 5-YEAR NOTE +4.33 +0.08 L93 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) ·0.61 49.31 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -14.60 893.60 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -3.00 77.80 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 96.5600 EURO 1.3131 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2213 BRmSH POUND 1.4627 

IN BRIEF 
Banks may need to raise more capital 
WASl IINGTON -Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. will need to raise more capital based on preliminary results of their govern­ment-run 'stress tests' -unless they succeed in appealing the findings, according to two peo­ple familiar with the matter. 
The banks are making their arguments to regulators, said these people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they have been ordered not to discuss it. Among their points could be that regulators don't fully understand the banks' operations, they said. 
But the companies face an uphill battle in convincing Fed oflicials, who privately released the results Friday, that the results are wrong, analysts said. They noted that the tests are supposed to be rigorous enough for the results to be widely accepted. 
Citi's shares fell more than 5 percent Tuesday, and Bank of America's more than 8 percent. 
GM forced to close over 1,000 dealers 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. told its deal­ers Tuesday that it will force 1,000 to 1,200 under­performing locations to close their doors as the automaker tries to thin dealer ranks to make the remaining outlets more profitable. 
GM told the dealers about the plan in a video conference, according to a dealer who spoke on condition of anonymity because the video confer­ence was private. It is part of the company's plan announced Monday to cut more than 2,600 dealers by 2010. 
The company expects to lose 500 Hummer and Saturn dealers when those brands close or are sold, and it expects 400 dealers to close voluntarily. Another 500 would be consolidated into other deal­erships, according to the dealer. 
GM said Monday that it also would eliminate it" Pontiac brand, but there are only 27 dealers that sell just Pontiacs, according to the National Automobile Dealers A'isociation. Most Pontiac deal­ers also sell Buick and GMC vehicles at the same location. 
Company spokeswoman Susan Garontakos con­firmed the numbers and said GM is in the process of deciding which dealers to keep based on their sales performance, capitalization, potential prof­itability, size, image and customer satistaetion scores. 
Flu nickname might hurt farm profits 
Farmers worry strain's association with pigs may kill their business 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa ­Like the virus itself, the name 'swine flu' is spread­ing quickly. For the pork purveyors and hog farmers who make up the nation's $15 billion pork industry, that's a disaster. 
It doesn't seem to matter that the strain may not come entirely from pigs and cannot be spread by eating pork. Hog prices are already dropping as finan­cial markets worry people will have second thoughts about buying 'the other white meat.' 
"It's killing our mar­kets,"said Francis Gilmore, 72, who runs a 600-hog operation in Perry, outside Des Moines, and worries his small business could be ruined by the crisis. "Where they got the name, I just don't know." 
The swine flu strain that is spreading is a never­before-seen hybrid of human, swine and bird influenza but is widely known as swine flu. Though it is suspected of killing more than 150 peo­ple in Mexico, public health officials have said eating products like baeon, ham the National Pork tion ... and that's not help­and raised in Minnesota. and pork chops is safe as Producers Council. "It does ful." To refer to me as from long as the meat is cooked trouble us from that stand­The European Union's Czechos1ovakia would be thoroughly. point because it's very health commissioner has incorrect," Gramer said. 
Still, the outbreak has much a public health issue suggested the virus be The World Health 
depressed the U.S. pork right now and there's no renamed 'novel flu.' Organization indicated it industry. China, Russia and in1ication that a pig gave it Marie Gramer, an assis­had no plans to try to Ukraine have banned pork to a human. To call it a tant clinical professor at remove the term 'swine' imports from Mexico and 'swine flu' I think is a little the University of Minnesota from the flu's name. parts of the United States, bit misleading." College of Veterinary "This epidemic started, and the outbreak has U.S. officials said Medicine who advises the basically, with that name, stalled the usual spring Tuesday they may abandon National Pork Board, sug­and the virus that is identi­rise in U.S. hog prices. the term swine flu, for fear gested that the virus be fied is the swine influenza 
Hog prices nationwide it's confusing people into named based on the geog­virus," said WHO's assis­had dropped to an average thinking they could catch it raphy of the outbreak: tant director-general Keiji of about $59 per 100 from pork. North American influenza. Fukuda. "And we are hope­pounds of carcass weight "We're discussing, is She said that would be ful that the introduction of Tuesday morning, down there a better way to more accurate than pin­new names doesn't cause from about $62 last describe this that would ning the name on the any undue confusion." Thursday, according to the not lead to inappropriate genetic ancestry of the MaryBeth Winstead, who 
U.S. Department of actions on people's part?" virus. was shopping at a Harris Agriculture. Prices typical­said Dr. Richard Besser, "It's just like looking at Teeter supermarket in ly climb past $70 in late acting director of the me and my heritage. Raleigh, N.C., said she April and May. Centers for Disease Control Someone could look at a probably wouldn't be put­
"It is an unfortunate use and Prevention. "In the gene of mine and say, 'Oh, ting pork on her grocery of words," said Dave public, we've been seeing a she's Czechoslovakian" list as the outbreak Warner, a spokesman with fair amount of rnisconcep-even though I was born unfolds. 


Obamaadministration expands housing aid 
Associated Press That's because borrowers who are gage initiative will be funded out of 
trying. to get their primary mortgage $50 billion in financial rescue money 
WASHINGTON -The Obama modified at a lower monthly payment already allocated. As an incentive to administration said Tuesday it is need the permission of the company modify second loans at lower interest expanding its plan to stem the hous­holding the second mortgage. rates, mortgage companies would get 
ing crisis by offering mortgage The new plan aims to get rid of $500 upfront for each modified loan, lenders incentives to lower borrow­that roadblock, administration offi­plus $250 a year for three years as ers' bills on second mortgages. cials said. "We're offering even more long as the borrower doesn't default. 
During the housing boom, lenders opportunities for borrowers," Similarly, borrowers would get up readily gave out 'piggyback' second Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to $1,000 over five years applied to loans that allowed consumers to said in a statement. the principal balance of their pri­make small down payments or avoid The new incentives are estimated mary mortgage, and the government them entirely. While home prices to help up to 1.5 million borrowers would pick up part of investors' costs soared, such mortgages were even with second mortgages, Housing as well. Lenders would also be given extended to borrowers with poor Secretary Shaun Donovan said. the ability to remove second mort­credit scores and people who didn't While data on how many household gages entirely in exchange for larger provide proof of their incomes or have been helped by the Obama government payouts. assets. administration's housing plans are The administration also plans to 
But those loans, which are not available, Donovan told reporters give mortgage companies $2,500 attached to about half of all troubled there have been "hundreds of thou­payments to entice them to partici­mortgages, have been an obstacle to sands of applications." pate in the 'Hope for Homeowners' efl'orts to alleviate the housing crisis. The administration's second mort-program. 

Wednesday, April 29, 2009

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Best Wishes to All Presenters in the Undergraduate Scholars Conference Friday, May 1 
DeBartolo Hall Suite Museum Jordan Hall of Science 
oral presenlatlons session 1 1:00 .. 2:30p.m. Gallery Talks session 1 1:00 ·2:30p.m. oral presentations session 1 1:OO .. 2:30 p.m. Pos•er session 2:30 • 3:30 p.m. Poster Session 2:30 .. 3:30 p.m. oral presen•anons session 11 3:30 .. 5:00 p.m. oral presenranons session 11 3:30 .. 5:00p.m. 
GENER4L SESSION .. Business, Fine Arts, Humanities,. Social Sciences - DeBartolo Hall  
Monica Garcia Blizzard  LeAnn Parson  Jilfian Brems  Marisa Behan  Sean Smith  
Sean Mallin  Jufie Wagner  Katherine Shakour  Ellen Rolfes  Megan Marsh  
Alice Ciciora  Greg Podolej  Kerry Pecho  Marie Bader  Andrew Nesi  
Sarah Burch  Jess Hagemann  Frank Vento  Eleanor Huntington  Joe Gleason  
Andrea Torresh  Jillian Karas  Katie Sabella  Cara Nazareth  Tricia Hughes  
Allyson Brantley  CoUeen Anderson  Casey McNeill  Ashley Mayworm  Elisia Guerena  
Joseph G. ldaszak  Maria Antoniak  Jonathan Toups  Natassia Kwan  Anthony (Rocky) Gallo  
Daniel Barrera  James Toner  Kathryn Keegan  Michael Lucien  James Hinckley  
Jaime Amrhein  Melissa Yuen  Stephanie Fairhurst  Sean O'Brien  Levi Checketts  
Maris Braun  Analise Lipari  Caitlin Conway  PJ. McHugh  Jonathan Buttaci  
Jillian Pearson  John Hennessey  Josh Cook  Catie Peters  

GENERAL SESSION -Engineering -DeBartolo Hall 
Scott Vitter Gene Leyden Scott f;arvey Rachel Horning Angela Comana Adam Mathews Avery Scott Brian Farrell Leonard M. Giannone Michael Ouimet Claire VerHulst Todd Henkel Adam Woodruff Mary Beauclair Seamus Jackson Nathan Yanchak Travis Allen Luke Nakatsukasa 
Michael Brundage Gary Nijak. Jr. Ben Fritsch Andrea Lorico Nicholas Jaffa "Anthony Ashley Tom Furlong Michael Call Sara DeVore Bristol Schmitz Taylor Donaldson Christopher Chinske Brian Slahoch Isaac Godfroy Michael O'Connor Tricia Strei Andrew Mrugala Sarah Lane Colin Heye Albert Cerrone Steve deLaurentis Katherine Pierret Andres K. Valenzuela 
GENER4L SESSION • Special Tracks  
Nano Science and Technology  Foreign languages &Cultures  Energy and Sustainability  Center for Research Computing  Higgins Labor Studies Program  
Rachel Letteri  Adrienne Murphy  Julia Sendor  Christopher I. Fallin  RachaelBanks  
Alexandra Minnis  Gaby Miller  Brian Dolinar  Maggie Baker  Brian Sarnacki  
Adam MiDer  Andrew Reynolds  Andrew Loza  Patrick Braga-Henebry  ullian Nguyen  
Lauren Floccare  Casey Engelbert  Elizabeth Dieckman  Nathaniel Menendez  Michael Angulo  
Timothy Politano  Brandon Walker  
Melissa Kaduck  
Sean McCuUough  
MicheUe Byrne  

BFA EXHIBITS/GALLERY TALKS· O'Shaughnessy Galleries. Snite Museum of Art 
Anna Jordan Mary Jesse Haley Prestifilippo Christina Lewis Cassidy Russell Audrey Marier 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE JOINT 4NNUAL MEETING • Jordan Hall of Science  
Caroline Green  Phillip Schneider  Brian O'Rourke  James Meinig  Dominic Vernon  Kathryn Keegan  Tom Scrace  
Megan Ericson  Alfredo Blakely-Ruiz  Christina Sartorio  Bonnie Chow  Jonathan Stefely  Adrian Kierulf  Andrew Kobach  
Nachi Kamatkar  Maggie Baker  Nicholas Ward  Matthew Conti  Christopher Mariani  Emily Lopez  Thomas Rehagen  
Caitlin Lazar  Tim Campbell  Bronwen MitcheU  Jennifer Dang  Christo Sevov  Andrew Renner  Matt Reagor  
Meghan Morrissey  Garrett Coggon  Katie Washington  Thomas Gruffi  Patrick Brown  Lauren Gamboa  Robert Schafer  
David Adams  Sophia Cortez  Hannah Wenger  Thomas Osberger  Davide Lionetti  Julie Skalamera  Adam Woodruff  
Carlos Briseno  Ryan Crane  Maureen Williams  Chrissy HaD  Bridget Leone  Tej Mudigonda  Krystyna Traudt  
Brendan Collins  Christopher Esber  Jacqueline Chase  Ben Hechler  Brandon Sparks  Carl Berasi, IV  Reed McDonagh  
Jonathan GiUig  Concerta HoOey  Marcel Frenkel  Patrick Holvey  Jennifer Zabel  John Fladey  Jimmy Miller  
Caitlin Hackett  Melissa Harintho  Jennifer Kang  Andrew Kocab  Cristina Crespo  Jon Poelhuis  Kevin O'Brien  
Melissa Nolan  Edward Kratschmer  Jessica Keppel  Audrey Loucks  Erika Daley  Genevieve Dupuis  Kirk Post  
Mary DeAgostino  Timothy Spear  Brianna Klco  James Masters  Prisma Garcia  Peter Kelly  Michael Troy  
Michelle Favi1a  Sharon Lam  Daniel CasteUanos  Mark Mclaughlin  Maria Moreno  Andy Manion  Daniel Quinlan  
Brittany Angarola  Kathleen McDonald  Erin Wash  Andrew Medvecz  Meghan Johnson  MicheUe Maurin  Kyle Neary  
Cecilia Scrafford  Marita Neidecker  Sarah Matthys  Daniel O'Brien  Erin Wash  Daniel Moeller  Jacob Skrabacz  
Beth Nagel  Emily Ly  Scott Hurley  Oscar Perez  Stephanie Fairhurst  Thomas Catanach  
Neill Li  David Nemer  Claire Northway  James Rudloff  Minondo  James Tucci  

Spirit of Science Award Winners  
Northern Indiana Regional Science and Engineering Fair  
Sarah Bueter  Matthew Kroll  Michael Linley  
Edward Hunckler  Matthew Lamberti  Mitchell Lozier  

-~~--~---·--· 
.. 

---------------~--------------·-------------·····················-·--------········-----···--·-··-..... -··-----~--· --------·----------.---------·-·· 

Study Break lunch at the CoMo 
lunch SConversation for Gay, lesbian, Bisexual 8Uuestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Friday. May I Noon to 1:30 p.m. 316 Colaman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay.lesbian. bisexual 6questioning members of the Notre Dame family. along with their friends and allys. to an informal luncheon at the Co-Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured. 
Lunch Will Be Served 
CORE COUNCil 
Hli? trt, liSWAA. fHSHJfl &&UE5Tllt!ifnfi $11ll"JUHS 





Follow ndsmcnews on Twitter. 
Wednesday, April 29, 2009 
page 9 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Student creates T-shirts in support of Obama 
By AMANDA GRAY News Wriler 
Graduating senior Matt 
Degnan has decided to voice his 
opinion about President 
Obama's Commencement 
speech by designing a T-shirt 
that reads, "Obama'? Fine by 
1ne." 
Degnan began his defense of 
Obama in a Letter to the Editor 
titled "Not on my campus" in 
The Observer on March 26. 
"The design actually evolved 
from a plea I made in a 
Viewpoint [letter] which was 
published a few weeks ago," 
Degnan said. 
"The original design said 
'Please don't ruin MY gradua­
tion.'" 
In the Jetter, Degnan addressed a Notre Dame alum­nus, Kevin Keane, who threat­ened to protest Obama speak­ing at Commencement by dis­playing signs of aborted fetuses in an earlier Letter to the Editor. 
After discussions with friends, the slogan changed to "Obama'? Fine by me." 
"We felt that 'Obama? Fine. by me.' better represented a sense of respect, acknowledgement and tolerance," Degnan said. 
Degnan chose shirts over other mediums for the slogan because they put a face to the protest. 
"A shirt actually ties you to what it says," Degnan said. "The same slogan on a poster has no identifiable point of view; no one knows who is making the statement. When students wear the shirt people know they support our gradua­tion speaker." 
Around 80 shirts have already been sold, and another 200 have been ordered, Degnan 

said. 
The T-shirts are being sold for 

$10 each and all of the pro­
ceeds will be donated to the 
American Civil Liberties Union, 
an organization founded to 
defend the civil liberties guar­
anteed to United States citizens 
through the Constitution and 
similar documents, according to 
the organization's Web site. 
Negative response has been 

kept to a minimum, Degnan 
said. 
"I personally have not 

received any negative respons­
es to date," Degnan said. 
That's not to say the shirts 

haven't sparked debate. 
"One person who bought a shirt was in class wearing it and a debate about the issue started because of it," Degnan said. "I'm excited that it's increasing dialogue on the issue." 
Students aren't the only ones buying the shirts. 
"One of the largest demo­graphics of people buying the shirt is actually faculty mem­bers," Degnan said. "I've sold shirts to people within the design, business, art history and physics departments, as well as administrators." 
Degnan urges all who support the shirt and its meaning to wear the shirt today. 
"I will also be selling shirts [todayJ," Degnan said. "If you cannot get one, I encourage you to make one, do anything you can to show support." 
The shirts are available through www.viral-tees.com and are selling for $15 for those who would like a shirt but aren't on campus. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
Tribune, the woman was taken back to Saint Mary's College where her friends took her to the hospital for medical care. The investigation will be contin­ued, with possible charges for assault as a result. 
The South Bend Police 

Department could not be reached for comment. 
The Observer also reported Monday that four male Notre Dame students and one Saint Mary's student reported they were robbed over the weekend. The students reported an encounter with a group of men around 11 p.m. Saturday night on the 1200 block of East Chalfant Street, aecording to a South Bend Tribune report. 

Security 
continued from page 1 

ing. City officials said the University agreed pay for the necessary police protection during Commencement week­end. 
SBPD will work with the United States Secret Service, St. Joseph County Police, Indiana State Police and Notre Dame to coordinate security for the president, including a motorcade. 
Since Obama is not the first president to visit South Bend, Trent told The Observer some security guides are already in place. 
If Obama follows a similar pattern that President George 
W. Bush did when he spoke at the 2001 Commencement, Trent said, "there's already a traffic and security package that can be dusted off and revamped a little bit." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Wa11t moref{N~~s? Go to ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, April 29, 2009 

page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture and FamilyTheater Productions Present 





An Evening ofAngelus 
at Notre Dame 
Thursday, April30 at 7PM Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
• -• • • • • • • • • .. • • • • -• • • • •• • • • • • • .. • .. • • .. • • • • • • • • • •• • .. • • • •• • • • -••••• -• -•• & ••• 
Directors \vill be present aftet\\tards to ans\ver questio11s. This is a free but ticketed event. 
• • • • -• e e e .... e -e -e e ••••• -... e e-e-. e -e • e •• -e • -ee • e -......e • -... e • -••• e -• II lllllll 
574.631.2800 to reserve tickets. THE FILMS 
SMALL CHANGE A n1an struggles \vithout his \vife, a young girl loses her tooth and a boy reacts the only way he knovvs how. 
DEFACE \Vhen a North Korea rnan is pushed to the edge by his daughter's senseless death, he risks his life to challenge the oppressive government, making his voice heard through an extreme and unusual action. 
OLD DAYS A con1ing of age story about a 74-year old \Vornan who reluctantly enters a retiren1ent cornn1unity and struggles to find her niche within the eccentric residents' social hierarchy, just like the nevv girl in school. 
IN THE NAME OF THE SON After escaping execution, a Bosnian prisoner of vvar in1migrates to the United States looking to leave his past behind. Years later, the n1an \vho spared his life shovvs up on his doorstep asking for a favor. 


Eddy 
continued from page 1 
the process of being installed. 
The anchor of the Eddy Street Commons will be a satellite store of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, which is run by Follett. The store will be set in the southeast corner of the development and take up approximately 20,000 square feet. 
In addition to the bookstore, the development will feature two sit-down restaurants. The first is an Irish-themed restaurant and pub named Kildares, which will be situated on the first floor of the office building planned for the development. 
The second restaurant is a seafood restaurant that will be located east of the bookstore. 
"These restaurants will be nice, sit-down restaurants with a great atmosphere and friendly pricing," Hakanen said. "These are places intended for people to go back to on a regular basis." 
For other, quicker food options, Chipotle, a Mexican fast food restaurant and Hot Box Pizza will also occupy the commons. 
"Hot Box Pizza will offer a few tables, but it will mainly be a take-out place," Hakanen said. 
Kite Realty Group L'i the devel­oper who bought and leased all the land for the project. For this reason, they are the ones responsible for the leasing. 
Hakanen said the developers are currently talking with a number of other tenants, which include additional restaurants, retailers and soft goods. Among those prospects are a number of local entities. 
taking  the  risk  
associated  with  
this,"  he  said.  

"They have the authority to lease within pretty broad guidelines." 
The only influ­ence Notre Dame had in selection of the retail space occupants was a list of prohibited types of businesses. 
"Beyond that list, the developers have the authority 
to lease it as they need and to make it a viable center," Hakanen said. 
There is also a variety of hous­ing available in the Eddy Street Commons, .the first of which are currently available in escrow. 
The housing units are called City Homes and will feature three levels of living, Hakanen said. 
"The City Homes will be simi­lar to the town homes offered at Irish Crossings, since they were built by the same builder," Hakanen said. 
There are conventional condos that will wrap around the park­ing lot that will be called Legends Row, he said. These condos are currently for sale. 
For shorter-term options, there 
"These restaurants will be nice, sit-down restaurants with a great atmosphere and friendly pricing. ·• 
Gregory Hakanen director Asset Management and Real Estate 

occupants," he said. "It will most likely be a combination of people who work for the University, alumni and other people who work in downtown." 
One fmal area of the commons that will open for business will have two different types of hotels. 
The first hotel that will be available for reservations will be a limited service hotel. Hakanen said they would begin work on the hotel this spring, with a pro­jected opening in summer 2010. 
Construction of the full service hotel is currently delayed but will begin immediately once financ­ing can be arranged. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
Street Commons is close to cam­pus, Hakanen said he believes the occupants of these living spaces will primarily be professionals. 
"These are not marketed to students, they are intended to be for adult 
White House, Obama announce ND center 
Special to the Observer 

The University of Notre Dame will be home to one of 46 new multi-million-dol­lar Energy Frontier Research Centers (EFRCs) announced Monday by the White House in conjunction with a speech delivered by President Barack Obama at the annual meeting of the National Academy of Sciences. 
The EFRCs, which will pursue advanced scientific research on energy, are being established by the 
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science at universities, national labo­ratories, nonprofit organi­zations and private firms across the nation. 
The University of Notre Dame's EFRC is one of 16 to be funded by President Obam a's American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. 
Peter C. Burns, chair of the University's Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, will be director of the new center. Burns said that this is a unique and important opportunity for scholars at Notre Dame and partner institutions to impact future energy challenges facing the nation and the world. 
Notre Dame's EFRC is 
titled "Materials Science of Actinides." The focus of this center, which includes par­ticipants from several other universities and national laboratories, is the ele­ments that are the basis of nuclear energy (uranium, plutonium and other actinides). Research in the center will seek to under­stand and control materials that contain actinides at the nanoscale, which is about one-millionth of the size of the tip of a ball-point pen. This research is intended to lay the scientific foundation for advanced nuclear ener­gy systems that may provide much more energy while creating less nuclear waste. 
"As global energy demand grows over this century, there is an urgent need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and imported oil and curtail greenhouse gas emissions," said U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu. "Meeting this chal­lenge will require signifi­cant scientific advances. These centers will mobilize the enormous talents and skills of our nation's scien­tific workforce in pursuit of the breakthroughs that are essential to make alterna­tive and renewable energy 
truly viable  as  large-scale  
replacements  for  fossil  
fuels."  


"They are also talking to a bank and a series of small spe­cialty stores, things like jewelry stores, flower stores and a day spa," he said. "By the time they're done I'm quite sure there will be local entities involved." 
Hakanen said the University doesn't have authority over who the retail space is leased to. 
"The developer provided the capital, is doing the work and will be apartments called the Foundry Apartments available for lease beginning this fall. These will be located above three retail buildings in the develop­ment. 
"The first phase of these apart­ments will be available this fall, with the next two gradually being offered in 2010," Hakanen said. 
Although the location of Eddy 
For more information, visit http://performingarts.nd.edu/ 
---:.....r-.__ ..,.___._,. --~--------..... ~----'l:-""---"-_,.._...,.,_ ---------·' ---~-­
Wednesday, April29, 2009 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
~~~~~==~==========~~~==~~~~======~~~==~~~~ 
' 
to deal with the situation we've 
"We're concerned, we're taking There are seven students in 
got." 

this seriously, but there's no cause Puebla and one in Monterrey. 
Obama 
Swine 
He said the focur.; should be on 
for panic. We're not closing down On April 24, Opel said, the 
continued from page 1 Obama's work to cultivate a socie­
continued from page 1 the University, we're not canceJing Mexican government cancelled 
ty where abortions don't happen, 
public events." Moskwinksi said. classes in all schools and universi­
by a Catholic university -even such as his work to reform the 
followed standing testing protocol According to a University press ties until May 6. The semester wa'i 
though the Church disagrees with health care system and public 
when the student displayed typical release, classes and final exams effectively finished with that can­
hl'i position on abortion. education. 
symptoms of sea'iOnal influenza -will continue as scheduled. cellation, she said, and arrange­
Souder said bestowing an hon­Gerardi said the issue comes 
sore throat, chill'>, head and body She said neither the CDC nor the ments for students to complete 
orary degree implies that the down to whether or not one 
aches, cough and fever. She said state are recommending closing final papers and exams are being 
recipient's service to the law has beJieves abortion is taking the life 
the student was not "seriously ill" down the University, but rather finalized. 
been "good and exemplary." of human being. 
and is "doing offer guide1ines Opel said OIS has worked with 
"His position, I think, ha'i been "There's one glaring hole in thi'i 
well now." See Also on how to edu­Anthony Travel to arrange for the 
in promotion ofsomething gravely holistic policy, and that's abor­
A culture cate on disea'ie Notre Dame students to return to
www.ndsmcobserver.com

evil," he said. tion," he said. "If you believe it 
sample prevention. the United States by the end of the 
taken from for updates on swine flu at NO Some stu­week.
Gerardi said he believes the dig­end'i the Jife of a human, then this 
nity of the life of the unborn takes on a whole new political 
the student dents on cam-It is not known how the student 
comes before other social justice debate." 
was sent to pus expressed back at Notre Dame's campus con­
issues, claiming that, without the While he said there are many 
the Indiana State Department of r-Oncem at the limited information tracted the flu strain. 
right to life, all other rights "fall to other social justice reforms that 
Health in Indianapolis for analy~;is, released by the University about Ofthe about 65 cases ofswine flu 
pieces." need to be undertaken to lower 
and Notre Dame was informed swine flu. reported domestically, all have 
Miller countered that honoring the number of abortions, Gerardi 
Friday the sample was atypical for ''I'm slightly concerned. It's a been mild or the patients have 
a politician based on one issue said the first step is changing the 
Influen7..a A, which could i.'ldicate it pretty big pool of people so it's not recovered, according to the CDC. 
isn't realistic and an honorary law. 
was the swine flu. The culture wa<; absolutely impossible that some­Jolliff and Moskwinski 1isted the 
degree should be based on the "After the law passed, the num­
sent to the CDC in Atlanta for con­body could contract it," junior precautions offered by the CDC to 
recipient's body of work as a bers [of abortions] increased ten­
firmation, which was determined Mary McDougall said. "I would Jike prevent the spread of the disease, 
whole. fold," he said. 
Tuesday. to know age and dorm. I'm wor­including regular hand wa<;hing, 
"For me, this is very inconsis­Souder said he does not believe 
The swine flu, Moskwinski said, ried that we'll wake up and hear avoiding touching the nose and 
tent, especially taking into account the University invited Obama to 
is contagious a day before symp­that cases are here there and mouth, and being careful while 
the sanctity of life," she said. create dialogue. 
toms are displayed and up to seven everywhere. College campus is a coughing or sneezing. They recom­
Citing Presidents Dwight D. "Oearly, Notre Dame is benefit­
days afterward. Symptoms show perfect place to spread disease." mend staying home iffee1ing ill. 
Eisenhower, Jimmy Carter, ing in some ways," he said. 
up 48 to 72 hours after being in Freshman Erin Wurst said she Students, faculty and staff were 
Ronald Reagan, George H.W. "Personally, I don't think the 
contact with someone who has the would like to know where the stu­alerted in an e-mail Monday of the 
Bush and George W Bush as past University needs to be in the busi­
swine flu, she said. dent lives, if the student lives on public health emergency notice 
Notre Dame Commencement ness ofpromoting itself so much." 
By the time of the student's diag­campus. issued by the Department of 
speakers, Angulo said Notre Gerardi said the invitation to 
nosis, the student had "been going "I gues.'i if it's in my dorm, I'd Jike Homeland Security that said 
Dame has a tradition honoring Obama is not in the spirit of dia­
out about regular activities" on to know. I actually got up to go University Health Servir..es "Lr.; pre­
the nation's leaders. Iogue and the dialogue of the stu­
campus, Moskwinski said. wash my hands when I heard pared to handle any influenza out­
"It isn't just like all of a sudden dents on the matter will not influ­
Jolliff said the case is currently about it," she said. break, if necessary." 
Jenkins said, 'I really like Obama, ence the president. 
under investigation and the stu­The affected student did not Information on swine flu is avail­
we should get him,'" he said. "Thb is a speech. It's a mono­
dent's close contacts are being recently travel to Mexico, the epi­able from the CDC at 
"Notre Dame ha'i a tradition." logue," he said. "We, sitting 
identified and notified. center of the swine flu outbreak. www.cdc.gov/swineflu and from 
Angulo argued that no presi­around here talking about this, 
She said the one confirmed case Over 150 people have died from Health Services at uhs.nd.edu 
dential speaker on campus could aren't going to change the law." 
at Notre Dame is "no cause for the di<iease in Mexico, according to 
have a social policy record that Angulo disagreed. 
panic," but rather encouraged tak­a Tuesday Associated Press report. Madeline Buckley and Robert 
would fulfill all the requirements "We can vote them in. We can 
ing steps to prevent the spread of The eight students studying Singer contributed to this report. 
of the Church and Catholic Social vote them out," he said. "That's 
the illness. abroad in Mexico this semester 
Teaching. what democracy is all about." 
Moskwinski said residence hall have been in contact with the 
"We need to look at the realities. 
rectors are being notified and Office of International Studies •
I 
Abortions don't happen in a vacu­Contact Madeline Buckley at 
plans are being made to educate regarding the situation, according Contact Jenn Metz at I I 
um" he said. "Somehow we have mbuddey@nd.edu 
students about illness prevention. to OIS director Kathleen Opel. jmetz@nd.edu I 
~ 

j 
Join the campus organization that brings the News Madeline Buckley (n1buckley@nd.edu) news to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Ashley Charnley (acharn01@saintmarys.edu) 
campuses every day. 
Sports Matt Gamber (n1gamber®nd.edu) We're looking for new staff in all departments. 
Scene Jess Shaffer (jshaffcl@nd.edu) Join The Observer staff. Contact us today. Photo Ian Gavlick (igavlick@nd.cdu) 
p
page 12 Wednesday, April 29, 2009 


THE OBSERVER 
1 And I [didn't yet] say ••• I 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nacre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR·IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Mctz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANAGER 
Bill Brink John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MA.."'AGING EDITOR: Aaron Sleiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EmmR: Matr Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jan Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 

Ao DESIGN M>\NAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Slacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAmR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631·5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is me independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dan1e du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofme administration ofeither instirurion. The Observer reserves lhe right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Ediwr, Assiswu Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of me authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quntions regarding Observerpolicies should be diremd to Editor-in-Chiifjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi..hcd Mon&.y through Friday ae<pt during tum ad vaurion periods. A s.ubscripcion to The C>b:s.er.·~ U. S120 fM o~ aca<kmic 
you; S6S lOr on< sent<o<<r.  
The a-rver 11 publ..hcd a& 024 Sourh Dinins Hall Nom Oamc. IN 46551\..0779 l'criodi<al pmtagc paid at Notte D;unc and ~irional nulling nffic.a:.  POSTMASTER Send addll'::b OOm:t.lion:~. to: TheOb.cnv P.o.&.n9 014 Sourh Dining Hall No<r< Dame, IN 46SS!Kl779  

The: Ob.cm:r i~ a mcmhn of the A:oitK.lau::d PfC.Q. AU reproduction rights arc 
""""""'· 
"J got an email from Euphemia," I mentioned, on an afternoon when I was giving my mother the twelfth-grade soci­ety report. Euphemia was a friend from church. Once upon at time, she'd been a Baptist, and until now she'd been Katherine homeschooled. 
Khorey

"I low is she?" Mum said. Now Both Sides Euphemia was 
Now

spending a year with relatives out west, and attending public school for the first time. 
"She's doing okay, but she says that every time she starts to make friends with someone, it turns out they either smoke or do drugs." 
Mum pulled out an old favorite for summing up a reaction. "And you said, 'Welcome to the world, Euphemia!"' 
"Exactly." I sipped my tea. It was understood, thou~h, that in that context "And you said .. .' meant, "And you real­ly wanted to say, but knew better... " 
So of course I hadn't actually wel­comed Euphemia to the big, bad, nico­tine-and-munchies ridden world of pub­lic high school. If I even sent her a response, it probably only said, "That stinks, Euphemia. I'm so sorry. Hang in there! : )" 
But I realize now that, by biting my tongue on my true feelings, I perhaps did Euphemia a disservice. A polite revealing of my own perspective -on being open to the sinner while disapproving of the sin, and of the extremely precarious bal­ance between holding one's own convic­tions and avoiding self-righteousness­would've been a lot more helpful and heartening to Euphemia than my hiding it. It's sometimes good, then, to have "And you said .. .''take on its face value meaning. 
In this column-my last of the year­I'd like to do just that. And I say. out loud: 
+ You may have noticed that I'm (mostly) disinclined to be confrontation­al. For that reason, I'm incredibly grate­ful not to be on campus right now. 
+ My stance on abortion laws will not be revealed here. 
+That being said, bloody masks belong in the Niles Scream Park, not in serious moral discourse. Hegardless of which side is wearing them. 
+ 
That being said, I remain hopeful that the only reaction Randall Terry and his ilk are likely to provoke during Commencement season will be the same one garnered by the war protestors who showed up in my hometown for Jerry Ford's funeral a few years back (i.e. utter disregard).

+ 
All those things being said, the fact that a good friend of mine, a rational and productive leader of the pro-life move­ment at Notre Dame (and most definitely not one of Terry's ilk) has had to disable her Facebook wall for safety reasons is disgraceful. And very, very sad. 

+ 
Relating to the much smaller epken­ter of the on-campus shockwaves: a cer­tain stipulation was missing from my last column. So now I add, that if your "Taylor" happens to be the same gender as you are, and you know that he or she is willing, then this member of the Notre Dame community has no problem with you going for it. 

+ 
Nothing anyone tells you about the city of Rome will mean anything until you visit it yourself. 

+ 
A completely non-controversial plug. Looking for a productive way to procras­tinate this finals week? Look no further than www.EtiquetteHell.com. Now you can be entertained, improve yourself, and put off studying all at the same web­site. 

+ 
Speaking of etiquette, it's generally a good idea to take a deep breath and con­sider all sides of a situation before stat­ing one's opinion on it. For instance, the hiding of one Christ signifier may be questionable, but the uncovered pres­ence of twenty-six others is worth taking into consideration. 

+ 
Though, those deep breaths can be 


hard to inhale. Sometimes we do get so 
worked up that we hurl our passionate 
opinions or feelings out on a public 
forum. And in the right context, that's 
fine. That's free speech. 
Of course the other sidn of free speech 
is other people's right to answer our not­
nice letters with not-nice responses. 
Experiencing as much first-hand is a 
painful, unforgettable, and essential les­
son about communication (A confession: 
I once provoked a Viewpoint war, and all 
my vitriol got tossed right back at me). 
But for the reactors, it's important to 
understand not only what constitutes an 
effective and appropriate response, but 
also when the response stops being 
efl'ective and appropriate. 
Or, to quit beating around the bush. So, guys, at the risk of my being hypocritical, was repeatedly bringing up Miss Buddie's name months after her letter ran really worth it? 
+ 
I personally do not care for The Vagina Monologues (my organs are not organisms, thank you), but I do respect the mission of the team behind it and especially the grace with which they handled their situation this year. 

+ 
I will, however, fight with all I have to keep Loyal Daughters and Sons alive. +I haven't actually made bran muffins while abroad. 


+Writing this column has been a won­derful experience, and I want to thank those who in various ways have support­ed both it and me. Now that the project's proved manageable and rewarding, it might continue, from the other side of the ocean, next year. 
And I should've said, "Euphemia, I know it's tough. But this is the world ... " 
Katherine Khorey is finishing o_ffher junior year at Trinity College, Dublin. Euphemia is probably running her own Sunday School by now. You may contact Katherine at kkhorey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



ORLH hypocrites, again 
When the staff in the Office of Residence Life and Housing made up their rules regarding study days and finals week, it seems as ifthey decided to put themselves above their own laws. "The Office of Student Affairs is informing each resi­dence hall that a proper atmosphere must be maintained in the dorms throughout study days (May 1-4) and exam days (May 5-9). No other activity, at any time, may interfere with an environment ofstudy and rest for all residents." Yet they decide to send teams do room inspections at 9 
a.m. (to my dorm) the first day of study days. What gives? I am very confused. Since I (and I a<;sume the majority of stu­dents of campus) plan to be fast asleep at that time, will their activity not interrupt the quiet environment I will need for rest? Furthermore, the memo I received from my hall staff has informed me that if I am sleeping when the inspector arrives, I "must get up in order for the inspection to take place." However, should I choose to obey the edict set forth by the ORLH by not allowing anything to interrupt my rest, and continue to sleep, myself and "each roommate will be charged a $100 penalty fee." It is clear once again that the Office of Residence Life and Housing is doing anything but looking out for the students and putting our interests first. 
The hypocrisy ofthis Office disgusts me. As it<; existence is totally dependent upon students, one would think that it would do its best to accommodate our needs. On the other hand, having older people who are out oftouch with the desires and mentality of the college-aged generation running this Office is not surprising considering the recent policies (I'm talking Fisher Zoo­esque ones, not Obama) set forth by the school's administration. Perhaps due to the aforementioned age-gap, they really don't know that us young whipper-snap­pers stay up late and sleep until the after­noon. In that case, I would hope that the rectors of all dorms would at least be in touch enough with the lives of their stu­dents to realize that on non-school days they like to sleep in (intelligent ones might be able to deduce this by the relative lack of activity before 10-11 a.m. on week­ends), and I would further hope that the more responsible rectors would stick up for their residents by explaining to ORLH the unreasonable hour as well as the inherent hypocrisy of these inspections. 
Ryan Slaney 
junior Carroll Hall April28 




Ensur~~;t!~~~~!~:'.;t~.w~~~·~.·:;·~f~~, 

Contact Kara King at kking5@nd.edu fortrtore information. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Ashley Charnley  Sam Werner  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Sarah Mervosh  Michael Blasco  
Megan Loney  Alex West  
Graphics  Scene  
Blair Chemidlin  Joey Kuhn  "When I read about the evils of  
Viewpoint  drinking, I gave up reading. ,  
Stephanie Vossler  Henny Youngman  
American Comedian  

Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You're alive. Do something. The 
directive in life, the moral 
imperative was so uncomplicated. It 
could be expressed in single words. 
not complete sentences. n sounded 
like this: Look. Listen. Choose. Act.·· 
Barbara Hall American Writer 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A plane banner, really? 
Define 'Catholic' 
Dear Whoever Hired the Abortion Plane to Fly Around on Tuesday: You're an idiot. Two reasons: 1) What, exactly, are you trying to accomplish? Was that a publicity stunt? Were you trying to raise awareness about the issue on campus? We are aware, believe me, we are so aware. Being in the epicenter of a firestorm of contro­versy will do that to you. Anyway, if your intent was to actually put for­ward your view, you also failed on that count too. 
The abortion issue deals with several questions at its heart: What is a human life, when does it begin, and how can we know? Your fancy flying banner addressed none of these issues. It just had a weird picture of what I guess was supposed to be a fetus; but you should know that if you were trying to disgust people into being pro-life, you failed at that too, because frankly I was just perplexed. 
So, failure on all counts, I think. 
2) Really, a flying plane banner? How much did that cost I wonder? I can't help but think it was a lot. I don't know, I've never hired a plane to fly around with provocative messages attached to it. But given the epic fail­ure (refer to point 1) your plane deliv­ered message was, that money proba­bly could have been spent in a much, much better way. Maybe you could have given it to a local crisis pregnan­cy center, or some other organization that, you know, actually tries to solve the problem. Right to Life would prob­ably be pretty happy to get it. Just sayin'. So next time, maybe think your actions through a little bit better, yeah? All of us rational pro-lifers thank you. 
Katie Pieper freshman Pasquerilla West Hall April28 

I would like to respond to the points raised by Levi Checketts ("Liberal Catholicism" April 27). I would like first to nail down what the term "Catholic" means, since I think Checketts misde­fines it. The Catechism of the Catholic Church says the Church is called Catholic because "In her subsists the fullness of Christ's body united with its head ... she receives from [Christ] 'the fullness of the means of salvation'" (CCC 830). Secondly, she is Catholic or Universal, because "she has been sent out by Christ on a mission to the whole of the human race." 
What this Catholicity does not imply is the acceptance of divergent opinions on matters of defined doctrine, dogma, or the natural law. The term Roman Catholic is not an oxymoron: the Church, under the authority of the Bishop of Rome, still possesses the fullness of the means of salvation, and this salvation is open to all men of every race. Further, there are other kinds of Catholics beyond Romans: Maronite Catholics, Ukrainians, Armenians, and a host of others. These various Rites of the Catholic Church dif­fer in their liturgy and disciplines (fast­ing regulations, canon law) but are in
Condemn Randall Terry 
I would like to call your attention to an offensive mailing that many alumni received in the last few days. It is from Randall Terry and his organization, StopObamaNotreDame.com. This mailing contains a four-page letter, a visually explicit postcard and a donation request. This mailing asks its recipient to convince the University to stop President Obama's appearance at Commencement and remove Fr. Jenkins from office. 
The University cannot turn a blind eye to efforts by outside organizations claiming to "protect" the University. The University must also question how this organization was given access to millions of alumni names. It is time for Notre Dame to publicly condemn Mr. Terry, his organization and this mailing. The appearance of President Obama should encourage an intelligent debate about modern-day Catholicism and politics and not an unsolicited, hateful call to action. The University cannot stand by in silence while Mr. Terry moves his organization forward. The University should be ashamed that this issue has spiraled so far out of control. 
Maria Mirto alumna Class of 1978 April27 

Steve McDevitt's letter to the editor ("On Principle" April 28) demonstrates perfectly the clueless banter that is governing our economic policy and also confusing our morality. In sarcas­tically urging those who oppose President Obama's honorary appear­ance at Notre Dame to return "free money they were given from an immoral and unjustifiable federal gov­ernment," Mr. McDevitt manages to write an editorial that is both a) not funny and b) seriously uninformed. To suggest that those who have been given public funds have somehow been awarded "free money" from a benevo­lent state is hogwash. Of course, the only money the government has is that which it is able to collect from taxpay­ers. In other words, Mr. McDevitt, these subsidies simply amount to a great redistribution of wealth, from the taxpayers to the students, albeit a much smaller sum than when it was originally confiscated, after the bureaucrats take their vigorish and the politicians pay their favors. Not to mention that the government's taking money from people and handing it out to others in the form of college grants artificially increases the demand for college, thereby increasing tuition rates. So, like virtually all government programs, this "free money" scheme that you seem to laud is exactly the kind of thing that allows the federal government to earn those nasty labels you sarcastically ascribe to it. To accept these awards is to accept some of our money back, and it is the only principled thing to do, until we can reverse course and prevent the feds from taking it in the first place. 
Brad Duffy alumusi Class of2008 April27 


Excitement turned disappointment 


Personal Sacrifices 
In response to fellow Keenanite Mark Easley ("Christian Soldiers" April 27), I disagree with his logic at every turn. He is just recycling the often-used argument against consciousness objectors. First, he stakes that those who take the "moral high ground" are oblivious to the real world, which demands that we have to engage in torture in order for our free­doms to be protected. The people mak­ing a stance against torture really believe that torture does not contribute to the safety of this country and its free­doms. There is sufficient and legitimate evidence to prove that torture is ineffec­tive. They also believe that morality does have to be compromised in your dirty "real world," as you state. You presume that as a Christian soldier, you must make sacrifices. I truly believe that Jesus who suffered heinous torture and who 

Reclaim our money 
When I first learned that President Barack Obama would deliver the Commencement address in May, I was excited. While I did not vote for President Obama last fall and many of my political views are not consistent with his, espe­cially regarding the sanctity of life. I nev­ertheless show the utmost respect for him as the president of our great country. Upon hearing of his selection, I was inter­ested to hear the words of wisdom that he would undoubtedly share with my graduating class. When my parents expressed disappointment with the University's selection. I vehemently defended the University's choice to them and told them how strongly I believed that the Notre Dame administration's actions deserved support. However, in the last few weeks, I have changed my mind. 
The strongest contributing factor to my change of heart has been the dismay I experienced upon learning that the White House had requested that all university signage and symbols behind the stage in Gaston Hall at Georgetown University be removed when President Obama deliv­ered an economics speech in the hall two weeks ago. This included an ancient perfect unity in doctrine and dogma, under the teaching authority of the Pope and bishops united to him. Checketts gives the names of numerous individuals and events that he labels as "conserva­tive" or "liberal." However, all of these individuals and events shared continuity in essential matters of Catholic doctrine, dogma, and morality, with the possible exception of Merton near the end of his life (He came rather close to Buddhism). 
President Obama, however, stands radically opposed to a fundamental prin­ciple ofjustice and morality held by Catholics: innocent human life must be defended at all stages. To promote poli­cies that deny personhood and rights to unborn humans (which Obama has done) is no less evil than for a racist to deny them to Africans or Hispanics. For a Catholic school to honor such a person is not Catholic in any way; rather, it is a mockery of our fundamental moral pre­cepts. 
John Gerardi 
JUOIOT 
Knott Hall April28 

made the ultimate sacrifice, would firmly deny the use of torture. 
As Christians, we are encouraged to take a moral stance and uphold the dig­nity and life of all human beings (includ­ing those who have wronged us). You also state, "We will sacrifice so that oth­ers may live in peace." First, as citizens we are not the ones making the personal sacrifices by letting our government tor­ture people. It is very easy for us to stand far away from where the torture is taking place and assent to it. Also, it is a distorted worldview that leads people to use violence to create peace. Fratres in Cristo. 
Paul Hotovy sophomore Keenan Hall April27 

monogram depicting the initials IHS that symbolize the name of Jesus. After read­ing about these events, I was deeply sad­dened that the respected leader of our country made such demeaning requests so that the camera quality of Gaston Hall was sufficient. This led me to question whether President Obama's presence was appropriate for the Commencement cere­mony at our beloved University. 
Now Mary Ann Glendon has declined her prior acceptance of the University's Laetace Medal, the first time the award has been declined after being accepted. I wish to applaud Mary Ann Glendon, who despite her prominent position and the effect she undoubtedly knew that her decline of' the award would have on the University of Notre Dame, for making a difficult decision and having the courage to do what she believes is right. We could all learn a lesson from Mary Ann Glendon about the importance ofstand­ing up for what we know is right, even if we are standing alone. 
Megan Sennett sen1or Pasquerilla West Hall April28 



Every year around this time, the Snite Museum on campus is proud to host an exhibit 
. of artwork from students receiving either a bachelor's degree or Masters in Fine Arts through the University. 
The projects are the result of a yearlong process. Not all art students choose to under­take such an extensive thesis project, but those that do produce some very impressive work. 
The projects are essentially senior theses that the students begin to think about as early as the spring of their junior years. Throughout 
· their senior year, the students work with facul­. ty from the art, art history, and design depart­ments on their projects. 
During the year they complete several reviews that allow their faculty advisors to stay to date on the status of their projects and allow for feedback. At the end of the first semester, all the artists presented a mid-year review and were required to present a final review once their art was on display in the Snite. 
The styles of art and projects within the · exhibit are as different as the artists, ranging from the more traditional fine arts like oil . painting to projects that encompass a combina­~ tion of audio and visual effects. There are also . . _-1 several very impressive design projects which 
. . · ~·. present develop products for disabled con­.. --...,sumers. ,, One such design project by Joey Curcio 
. developed a new walker for children with cere­bral palsy. In his artist statement, Curcio states: "It is discouraging for me to see so many medical products out on the market today that fail to address the social vulnerabili­ties of their users, especially of children with disabilities." 
This sentiment prompted Curcio to design the leap frog, a walker designed to be "aesthetical­ly inspiring, playful, and empowering." It has the capabilities to morph into several different configura ons to with cerebral palsy. 
Another equally impressive project, Anna Jordan created the design plan for a campaign to raise awareness about Lupus. Students may have seen her posters around campus with the catch phrase "Lupus is __". 
According to her artist statement, Jordan had Lupus as a sophomore and was interested in creating a "cohesive awareness campaign" which allowed students and the general popu­lation to become more aware of the disease. Her exhibit included the several large posters she designed for the campaign as well as a book of postcards she had other individuals with lupus experience fill out. 
The project by Cassidy Russell is an innova­tive piece of satire which uses a mixture of dyed fabric with applique and embroidery hoops in order to contrast traditional women's roles and the more modern conception of a woman. In her own words: "By using women's silhouettes, I am able to show both the impor­tance of the individual in today's feminism and the idea that all women deal with similar, though not identical, injustices." 
There is a clear tension between the ideals of women from the past and the realities of the present. This tension is expressed through the tension the embroidery hoops create on the fabric. In all, the piece is a very interesting commentary on the expectations and frustra­tions of being a woman in society today . 
Perhaps the most enticing and eye-catching piece of the exhibit, Christina Lewis created a design for a large mural that she hopes will promote Puerto Rican statehood. Prominently displaying the phrase "Desea 51" which means "Hope for 51," the mural encapsulates many symbols important to Puerto Rican history through the use of bright colors and graffiti like script. Lewis proposes the mural be installed on the old Spanish fort of San Cristobal in Old San Juan because of its iconic place within Puerto Rican history. Her artist statement reads: "I hope that my thesis project 
'-,..,.,.~~ ....... 

. ·_ .• "" ~ -:· ~---..:....'IP/'r. ' ·_. ­
. ~'~ "".ilL:
,...,..~m•o:_.l. fils~-~-"~"'-~-------···::~-·,. ·t--: -.-~ ._.........,. can become part of the grassroots effort to,, help push a statehood vote to a majority." ... 
Audrey Marier's thesis was surely a daunting .· project, but the result is especially intriguing. The purpose of her project is to raise aware­ness and the "cool" factor of classical music among teenagers. Titled "IMMERS3D," it is an innovative combination of audio tracks consist­ing of both live performances by college stu­dents as well as "epic versions of recorded music," according to her artist statement. It was her concept to provide teenagers with a new way of experiencing classical music by providing animation coupled with cool facts about the music. 
While you can see a basic representation her project in the Snite galleries, Marier invites anyone interested to attend a 35-minute show in Jordan's full dome theater, the Digital Visualization Theater. This is the first time that the DVT has done something so immersive. There will be a live performance of the show, with live music, on Thursday, April 30, at 9 p.m. 
One of three graduate students featured in the exhibit, Allen Chen's piece is a three dimensional fixture which combines clay and steel. He says the materials are an analogy for the dualistic way in which he perceives the world. According to his artist statement: "Art, to me, is a conduit that connects the inner world with the outside, and I understand it through the language of dualism." The piece is especially interesting because it appears to represent an evolution of sorts, perhaps o thought or Chen's own personal philosophy. 
There are many other equally talented artists featured in the exhibit that all students should consider checking out. 
The exhibit is in the O'Shaughnessy gallery o the Snite Museum and will be up until May 17. Many of the artists will be presenting their projects for the Undergraduate Research Conference occurring on Friday. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer GraphiC 


By PATRICK GRIFFIN Scene Writer 
Think of the greatest ways to enjoy an All-American summer-baseball, cook­outs, rock 'n' roll, fireworks. They all ooze with the glory of summer that Americans celebrate every year. 
This July 4, all the greatest summer joys will converge for one historic· night when rock legends Bob Dylan, Willie Nelson and Indiana's own John Mellencamp perform at Coveleski Stadium in South Bend. For students who will be on campus this summer, or those willing to travel for good music, the performance will undoubtedly pro­vide a glimpse at some of America's greatest musicians. 
The unprecedented show, produced by Jam Productions, Pacific Coast Concerts and the South Bend Silverhawks, is part of The Bob Dylan Show, a 22-city tour of minor league baseball stadiums. Since the summer of 2004, Dylan has per­formed to over half a million fans at numerous minor league ballparks across the country. The legendary roots rock performer has performed more than a hundred concerts a year since the early 1990's. Following the success­ful release of his last album, "Modern Times," Dylan followed up with his lat­est studio effort, "Together Through Life," which was released yesterday. 
In addition to being a stop on The Bob Dylan Show's national tour, because the performance in South Bend is scheduled for Independence Day, it will be Willie Nelson's 36th Annual 4th of July Picnic. Nelson, one of the world's most prolific recording artists, has been busy as of late. In the past five years, he has released over twelve albums, written numerous books, appeared in several feature films, and still found time to tour. Nelson's July 4th performance with Dylan will mark the second time the duo has appeared together at Coveleski. In 2004, the two performed to sold-out crowds at the Cove. 
The concert roster is rounded off by Indiana native John Mellencamp. The Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Farner's most recent album was released in 2008 and was titled "Life Death Love and Freedom." It was regarded by Rolling Stone magazine as "one of the most compelling albums of Mellencamp's career," and was also among the top five albums of the year. Mellencamp previously performed with both Dylan and Nelson in 1985 for the first Farm Aid benefit concert. 
The tour has received critical acclaim from numerous sources, including The Boston Globe, which recognized Dylan's show as one of "the most relaxed, enjoy­able shows of the year." 
Peter Kernan of Pacific Coast Concerts enthusiastically boasted that the show will "truly be the biggest concert South Bend has ever seen, both in terms of attendance and revenue." Kernan, a Notre Dame alumnus, has been involved in some of the most prolific shows in South Bend over the years and expects a sellout on the night of the Fourth. 
If the music and the setting aren't enough of an American celebration, Coveleski Stadium has one final offer to sweeten the deal. A professional fire­works display will illuminate the sum­mer sky immediately after the concert to end the unrivaled Fourth of July bash. The festivities will surely be remembered as not just a unique Fourth of July celebration, but also one of the most prolific events ever in South Bend. 
If you're looking for a unique Independence Day experience, and you're willing to spend a few bucks, The Bob Dylan Show and Willie Nelson's Fourth of July Picnic will be a display of American pride and culture that will likely never be reproduced. 
Tickets go on sale this Saturday, May 
2. They can be purchased at the Coveleski Stadium Ticket Office, or through Ticketmaster. All tickets are $68.50 for adults. Children 14 and under get in free and seating is general admission. The Cove's gates open at 
5:00 p.m. and the show begins at 5:30 with fireworks to follow. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
E
Wednesday, April29, 2009 


page 15 
! 
'-, 


-~t-·T -t· -··-:._, 

.. ;ji' -· " . 

.. .,.. 
·---'-~.· 

desserts in South Bend, I need to acknowledge that now (Tuesday night) is perhaps the worst time in my five years at Notre Dame to try to write an appetizing article. 
pies  and  hot  and the rest is rea­ 
fudgeknown  will as  be the  For your conven­ sonably phenomenal. All ingredients taste  
:healthiest foods -available 200 . years in the ··future. O.f course,  ience, I've selflessly visited five ofthe most popular  carefully prepared, like the fresh nuts and dark caramel. The most popular  
it's implausible in : reality, but like all comedy, there  dessert spots, presented here.  dish is the cheese­cake. The moderately sized slab is soft but  
may  be  some  thick, and drizzled  

rience the town. For your con­venience, I've selflessly visited five of the most popular dessert spots, presented here. 

on food and 
South Bend Chocolate Company 

Located in the heart of down­town, South Bend Chocolate {SBCC) offers an assortment of foods, not limited to chocolate. A case of swine flu was just con-The building is split into parts, firmed at Notre Dame, and I can't with a gift shop, coffee shop area, help but hear the buzzing from bar, dessert station, and of the low-flying plane with the course, chocolatier. Although the abortion banner -with picture. sandwiches and wraps have a That being said, there's never good following with the down­been a better time to get off cam­town lunch crowd, the obvious pus for a meal! strength is the chocolate desserts. In his 1 9 7 3 film "Sleeper," The chocolate in the form of truf­Woody Allen posited that cream fles, covered cherries, turtles, 
roots of truth in Allen's predic­with chocolate and caramel with tion, considering the short history two turtles on the side. The thick of dessert. After all, dessert as we and flavorful caramel is an excel­know it only emerged about two lent segment to the delicious tex­hundred years ago. tures, accentuated by the nuts . . Today around Notre Dame, it's and chocolate crust, which was neither crumbly nor soggy. Well­
'··'"' i-?'~·not uncommon to s~itch restau­
. ·-"' -· · _·... rants between dmner and prepared proportions and mixes 'dessert, and with good reason. are what rightfully maintain the ..; It's often preferable to have a big company's good name. ;~IJ--: dinner and little dessert, or vice 
· · versa. And with so many options Ritter's Frozen Custard in the area, going out for dessert Not much can compete with a can be an excellent way to expe-traditional ice cream stand on a 
----'?" • 
• ,07 A.
. _, 

hot day, besides frozen custard. Ice cream's creamier cousin has found a good home in the seven­state chain Ritter's. The nostalgic setup just north of Edison and Main serves new flavors every day. With shakes, malts and sun­daes to boot, Ritter's is something that should be at least sampled. 
Paleterla y Neveria La Rosita 
About ten minutes southwest of campus, La Rosita has certainly carved out a niche. This Mexican eatery serves desserts from homemade fruit bars to unique ice creams and sundaes. Besides the friendly staff {and patrons), the best part of La Rosita is the deals -the two dishes we had (lime fruit bar and one scoop of ice cream) were both just a dol­lar. The fruit bar coupled with the bright room could be very refreshing on a hot day. The homemade butter pecan was tasty, but my best choice was try­ing the ice cream with the flavor of mamey, a tropical fruit you won't find around Indiana. This is a worthwhile place for anyone wanting to practice their Spanish or just cool off on a hot day. 
Indulgence Pastry Shop & Cafe 
This young, fresh eatery is one of the closest to campus, just a few minutes east on Edison. The cafe is certainly worth a visit, if not just for the desserts, then for the likable offerings and quaint and cozy setup. Offering break­fast, salads, sandwiches, soups, cofTee, and Hershey's ice cream doesn't let Indulgence shy away 
....,.-. 

from the elegant desserts, such as the popular chocolate dome, 
which is well presented with mix­ing tastes, textures and consis­
tencies. The welcoming atmos­phere with ample seating is per-_ 
feet for days of studying and snacking. 
Yesterday's Food-Spirits 
Merriment 
Without much question, the sul­tan of sweets in South Bend is Yesterday's, on Adams Granger. The try of massive desserts trumps the already-large dinner selection. There's no taking the restaurant's style, wi wall-to-wall decorations Mickey Mouse chinaware Yesterday's is certainly an experh ence to be had. The most popular dish, besides the thick whipped cream, is the no-bake peanut butter pie, which has a cracker crust and creamy filling .­that is a must for any peanut but­ter fan. Other favorites are the cheesecakes, like the soft turtle cheesecake with butter brickle sauce, and the pies, like the Bourbon Street pecan pie with cinnamon and chocolate chips ort-­the tart and sweet key lime pie. 
With so many places offering'­fantastic after dinner fare in South Bend, there are plenty of~ reasons to extend a meal out. Wherever your dinner takes you.,. keep in mind that there's al room for dessert. 
ContactJ.J. Rees at jrees@nd.edu 


By STEPHANIE DePREZ Scene Writer 
It's finally here, kids: the Summer Movie Train. All aboard for what will prove to be an action-packed escape from school, bad weather, and the recession (unless you're paying, of course). 
At the top of the list is this weekend's big ticket, "X-Men Origins: Wolverine." The first in what Fox Studios hopes to be a long chain of movies detailing the origins of the X-Men, this film reveals Wolverine's dark past. Starring the ever-muscular Hugh Jackman, "Wolverine" is poised to come barreling through the weekend and officially declare the summer movie season open. 
Another heavy-hitter on the list is "Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince." Older, darker, and more 
"'l: ,··· 

sophisticated, the usual suspects are back to tell the tale of the sixth Harry Potter novel. Expect more of the usual Warner Bros. magic as the studio con­tinues to tell the wizard's tale. 
The summer wouldn't be complete without Pixar's annual contribution, and that would be "Up," the age-old tale of a grouchy old man in a house lifted into the air by millions of bal­loons, and the Boy Scout who gets trapped on his porch. As usual, Pixar takes a concept too contrived and unusual to be ignored and hopes to spin it into a heart-warming, thought-pro­voking tale of family values. No reason why this shouldn't be the case once again. 
If the women get Wolverine, who do the men get to drool over this summer? That would be Megan Fox, back in "Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen." 
She joins Shia LeBeouf in the continua­tion of the film from 2007. 
Johnny Depp returns to the screen in the gangste-r film "Public Enemies." with Oscar-winning actress Marrion Cotillard, Christian Bale, and Channing Tatum, for good measure. 
Geeks rejoice as "Star Trek" finally takes to the screen (again}. From the mind of J .J. Abrams (creator of TV's "Lost" and "Fringe") comes the origin tale of many Star Trek heavy hitters, with a hint of time travel. The release date was pushed back from December in order to capitalize on the summer movie audience, which is poised to eat it right up. Downside: no William Shatner. 
All you animated junkies will also find your fix: "Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs" has arrived. Same anima­tion, same laughs, same Scrat. 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

Other notable openings include "Dance Flick," a farce of any and all dance movies from yours truly the Wayan brothers. "Brothers Bloom" stars Adrian Brody, Mark Ruffalo and Rachel Weisz as con artists in this com­edy. "Angels and Demons," the prequel to "The Da Vinci Code" opens this week­end, with the ever-trusty Tom Hanks. And who could forget "Bruno," starring Sasha Baron Cohen (''Borat") in a mockumentary of a flamboyant fashion designer who decides to take his work to America. 
Choices abound this summer, and it's so jam-packed with potential hits that you could easily find yourself haunting the local theatre every weekend. As long as that pay check holds up, that is. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

Wednesday, April29, 2009

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
2008 OLYMPICS 



Medalists caught usingdrugsbyIOC 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The IOC is still uncovering drug cheats eight months after the Beijing Olympics ended. 
The International Olympic Committee, staying true to its pledge to fight doping, said Tuesday that six athletes have been nabbed by retesting their blood samples for CERA, an advanced version of the blood-boosting hormone EPO. 
A person familiar with the results told The Associated Press the latest tests caught three track and field athletes, two cyclists and one weightlifter. 
The person, speaking on condition of anonymity because the names haven't been released by the IOC, said a male track and field athlete who won only one gold medal was one of the athletes. The other medalist was in cycling. 
The IOC did not identify the athletes or sports involved, saying it was notifying the competitors through their national Olympic committees. 
The Italian Olympic Committee said one of the six was an Italian athlete, though it declined to name him. The Italian news agency ANSA identified him as cyclist Davide Rebellin, silver medal­ist in the road race. 
U.S. Olympic Committee spokesman Darryl Seibel said the federation hadn't received notification from the IOC of any adverse findings involv­ing a U.S. athlete. 
"Unless we hear otherwise, we are treating no news as good news," Seibel said. 
The IOC reanalyzed a total of 948 samples from Beijing after new lab tests for CERA and insulin became available following the Olympics. The testing began in January and focused mainly on endurance events in cycling, rowing, swimming and athletics. 
"The further analysis of the Beijing samples that we con­ducted should send a clear message that cheats can never assume that they have avoided detection," said Arne Ljungqvist, chairman of the IOC medical commission. 
Coaches, athletes and anti­doping organizations wel­comed the announcement, 
saying it helps restore credi­bility to Olympic sports. 
"I'm in favor of anything they're doing to clean up the sport," said Glen Mills, coach of Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt, who won three gold medals in the 100 meters, 200 meters and 4x100 relay -all in world-record times. 
Bolt "has not heard any­thing -and he will not hear anything," Mills said by tele­phone from Jamaica. 
The IOC will wait for word from the national Olympic bodies before holding any dis­ciplinary hearings. Athletes found guilty of doping face being disqualified from the Olympics and stripped of any medals they won. 
The positive findings were based on "A" sample test results. Athletes will be allowed to ask for a testing of their backup "B" samples. 
In the meantime, national and international bodies are free to impose provisional suspensions of athletes, the IOC said. 
A Greek race walker, Athanasia Tsoumeleka, announced in January that she had tested positive in the new Beijing checks. Tsoumeleka, who finished ninth in Beijing in the 20K walk, was charged by a Greek prosecutor earlier this month with using banned drugs. 
The IOC previously disquali­fied nine athletes for doping at the Aug. 8-24 Olympics. In addition, there were six dop­ing cases involving horses in the equestrian competition. 
The IOC has already stripped four athletes of Beijing medals -Ukrainian heptathlete Lyudmila Blonska (silver}, Belarusian hammer throwers Vadim Devyatovskiy (silver) and Ivan Tsikhan (bronze) and North Korean shooter Kim Jong Su (silver and bronze). 
The IOC is storing doping samples for eight years so they can be tested retroac­tively when new detection methods are developed. 
The World Anti-Doping Agency welcomed the IOC findings. Under the WADA code, athletes can be disci­plined up to eight years from the date of a doping viola­tion.esting serves as a strong deterrent." 
NHL 

Capitals protect Rangers coach 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Washington Capitals plugged the gaps in the glass to help separate the fans from John Tortorella. That didn't stop spectators from finding other ways to needle the New York Rangers coach. 
Two fans seated behind the visitors' bench held up printed signs featuring a six-pack of water bottles and the words "Torto's Ammo" at Tuesday night's Game 7 of the first­round series. Six fans in the section wore red ponchos, and another fan at the Verizon Center held up an umbrella emblazoned with the words: "4 U, Torts." 
The signs and ponchos were fine, but the Capitals took sub­stantial precautions to avoid a repeat of the nasty exchange that led Tortorella to be sus­pended for Game 6 of the series. Workers installed seven 1-shaped, Plexiglas stanchions to fill the l-inch spaces between the panes of glass behind the visitors' bench. The Capitals were also on alert for the possible need for extra security personnel in that area of the stands. 
On Friday, the last time the teams met in Washington, Tortorella squirted water at fans and tossed a water bottle into the crowd during the third period of the Capitals' 4-0 Game 5 victory. 
After the NHL announced that Tortorella would be sus­pended for Sunday's Game 6, the Rangers sent a letter to the league, asserting "gross negli­gence" by the Capitals in response to "egregious fan misconduct." The letter said spectators behind the visitors' bench used obscene language and spit on team personnel and that the arena's security personnel did not act on requests to intervene. 
Team spokesman Kurt Kehl said the team has not decided whether the measures would remain in place for future games. 
MLB 

Hamilton day-to-day with strain 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Josh Hamilton has a strained muscle in his left rib cage, and the Texas Rangers are hoping he can avoid the disabled list and get better with medication and a few more days of rest. 
Hamilton was out of the start­ing lineup for the third straight game Tuesday night and described himself as being in "extreme pain" before being examined by team physician clubhouse before the start of a three-game series against Oakland. "Just standing here, it hurts. Taking deep breaths. Running, throwing, hitting, everything hurts." 
Hamilton wasn't in the start­ing lineup at Toronto on Wednesday, the day after slam­ming into the wall, but appeared in that game as a pinch-hitter. The left-handed slugger started Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 
He left in 

Dr. Keith ..Just standing here, 
Meister. 
it hurts ... running,

Rangers gen­
eral manager throwing, hitting, Jon Daniels said everything hurts., the doctor deter­mined that 
Josh Hamilton

Hamilton had a muscle strain. Texas Rangers outfielder 
"It's not believed to be structural," Daniels said. "Typically, the doctor feels like about 48 hours or so when you can tell how quickly a patient responds to [medication]. So we'll take it day by day, see how he's doing and how the team's doing and what our roster needs are." 
The All-Star center fielder got hurt when he ran into the out­field wall in Toronto a week ago. His elbow folded into the left side of his body and his rib cage while he was feeling for the wall. 
"Extreme pain, no matter what I do," Hamilton said in the 
the fifth inning Saturday and pinch-hit again Sunday but did­n't play Monday after trying to take batting practice. "I probably need to rest it and let it heal," 
Hamilton said. "I battled through the last four or 
five days, did everything I could to help it and pain tolerance­wise to get through it. ... If I'm out there, I'm not going to play not to get hurt. I'm going to play full-out." 
Daniels said Hamilton talked to Meister and team trainer Jamie Reed about what he need­ed to do. 
"His thought was if we could wait a little bit, he'd like to do that," Daniels said. "Right now, we've got a little time. We're going to play with it." 
The Rangers faced Oakland rookie Brett Anderson on 
Tuesday, the first of five left-ban­ders Texas was scheduled to face during the six-game homes­tand. 
"That'~ part of the thought process ... although Josh is not a guy you're platooning," Daniels said. 
Marlon Byrd started in center field Tuesday night. Andruw Jones, the 10-time Gold Glove center fielder with Atlanta, start­ed in left. 
Texas manager Ron Washington expects Byrd to be the center fielder when Hamilton is out. 
"I think Marlon, right now, is best for that," Washington said. "Marlon has been playing center field for us the past three years and I think he had been doing a great job.... This is my call. I don't have any explanation oth­erwise." 
Jones, a five-time All-Star for Atlanta who hit only .158 with three home runs last season in his only year with the Los Angeles Dodgers, made the Rangers' roster after coming to spring training on a minor league deal. 
Going into Tuesday night's game, Jones was hitting .370 with two home runs and five RBis in nine games. Byrd was hitting .351 with two homers and 13 RBis. 
Hamilton, who led the AL with 130 RBis while playing 156 games last season, was hitting .242 with two homers and 10 RBis in 66 at-bats. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Condo for Sale 1564 Sq Ft 3 bdr 2 baths 2 car garage Basement Sun Porch Quiet neighborhood 6 mile south of University $130k 574-291­2306 
3-bed, 2bath condo in quiet neigh­borhood. 2 miles east of ND. Unit is less than 2 yrs. old. For info, 630­464-2044 or morourk1 @gmail.com 
Womans ND dinner ring, size 7. $400 574-272-8027. 
Very nice 2-bdrm home, totally remodeled inside and out. New roof, windows, siding, gutters, front door. Nice large deck. New kitchen, ceramic tile, light fixtures. All new appliances. Fresh paint, new car­pet, brand new bathroom, fenced yard with oversized 1-car garage. Nicely landscaped. 1.5 miles to ND. Broker owned. $74,800. Amy Ziolkowski, ReMax 100, 574-360­4800. 

FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are ND alums. Pis call/text 619-804-3359. 
Rental House 1 mile from NO, on TRANSPO route. New kitchen. bath, windows & carpet. 2 bed­rooms, 2 living rooms & dining room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. Call Linda 574-288-0168. 

2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. 
Off-Campus housing at Dublin Village, Irish Crossings. Now up to $100 off per room per month with an application by May 15. Call CES Property Management at 574-968­0112. 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 s/1 +base., L.A. wlfp. 4 bdrms,study + finished 3rd fl. Full appliances+ W&D,3 porches. 413 W. Navarre. $1350 + util574-261­3184 or email escargot55@hot­mail.com or www.xog.com/proper­ty/413WNavarre.html 
Professor s home near ND avail­able summer session. 574-233­8855 or 574-387-4205. 
3br Clover Ridge Apt. for Summer Sublet. $1000/mth. 404-200-3330 
5 bedroom house 105 Marquette. Grent neighborhood, refinished hardwood floors. Washer and Dryer. 574-232-6964. 

PERSONAL 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies). please call Marie and James (30 1 )977 ·5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
Suck it, Cindy. At least we don't cheat. This is better than winning the Big East. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assauiV 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. Learn about available assistance at: http://preg­nancysupport.nd.edu 







OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Wednesday, April29, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVE~s WIRE SERVICES page 17 
--~············· ............................... ···········••·············
===..=-=.:.::::.:.:.:.:.:.··--~--····=··--==================================~---::_::·~·=·~---~·····--'-········ -----­
--· ~-----···==····=========:.:.:.:.:.:.···:.:.:.:.:.:.········:.:.:.:.:.:.··· 
MLB 


Fans failed to fill the seats of the new Yankee Stadium during a Yankees game last week against the Oakland Athletics. Empty seats have been common at the new ballpark, sparking a price reduction. 
Yankees cut prices on unsold seats 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Turns out a few more fans might be able to buy those empty front-row seats at Yankee Stadium. 
The New York Yankees slashed prices on more than 40 percent of their front-row seats by up to 50 percent Tuesday and announced many of those who bought tickets clos­est to the field for $325­$2,500 will be eligible for additional free seats. 
Those initiatives could help pack previously unfilled areas that were an eye sure on television broadcasts during the opening homestand at the $1.5 billion ballpark. 
"There are a few hun­dred suite seats in our premium locations that have not been sold on a full season basis," Yankees managing gen­eral partner Hal Steinbrenner said in a statement. "As a result, and for many of our fans who have already pur­chased full season suite seats in such premium locations, the Yankees are announcing today a program that adjusts certain prices and bene­fits." 
While most of the cheaper tickets in the second and third decks were sold for the opening six games, entire sec­tions of cushioned blue seats with teak arm rests in the first nine rows in 25 sections went empty, areas that cost $500 and up. In addition, many of the non-premium seats between the bases, which cost $325 as part of sea­son tickets and $375 individually, also went unfilled. 

MSNBC's Keith Olbermann, who owns three $850 Legends Suite season tickets, was unhappy prices were cut only for those with front­row seats while others will be given additional tickets. 
"If they're offering only selective refunds, depend upon it: There are going to be lawsuits," he said. "Great, more tickets nobody wants. The silver lining here is that even more charities are going to be getting even more tickets from me." 
The price of first-row season seats in nine sec­tions of the Delta Sky360 Suite one deck up behind home plate was cut from $750 to $550. 
Among the top non­premium seats in the lower deck, the Yankees announced a buy-three­get-one-free program for new $325-a-seat season tickets in the 15 sections between the bases. 
IN BRIEF Ex-tight end Gonzalez says
goodbye to Kansas City 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Atlanta­bound tight end Tony Gonzalez bid Kansas City farewell Tuesday and promised that if he ever goes into the Hall of Fame, it will be as a Chief. 
"The only regrets I have are things I didn't do," said Gonzalez, a 10-time Pro Bowl selection. "I really wish I could have been a part of something more special. I wanted to be a part of bringing a championship to this city. 
''I'm going to go on record right now saying I'm going to retire as a Chief. If I am ever fortunate enough to go into the Hall of Fame, it's going to be as a Chief," he said. 
Gonzalez set up and paid .for his own news conference at a down­town hotel to say goodbye to the city where he played for 12 years and became the most productive tight end in NFL history. 

Adenhart crash survivor's 
condition upgraded to fair 
LOS ANGELES -The passenger injured in the car crash that killed Los Angeles Angels pitcher Nick Adenhart had his status upgraded to fair late last week and has been undergoing physical and speech therapy. 
Jon Wilhite, of Manhattan Beach, remains in intensive care at the UC Irvine Medical Center but can move and is not paralyzed, hospital spokesman John Murray said. 
His condition was upgraded last Thursday. 
The 24-year-old was riding in a Mitsubishi EcJipse with Adenhart and two friends on April 9 when a minivan ran a red light and broad­sided the car at about 12:30 a.m. in neighboring Fullerton. 
Adenhart died in surgery hours after he made his season debut by pitching six scoreless innings. 
Two others in the Eclipse died in the crash. 
Magic will host future All­
Star game in new arena 
ORLANDO, Fla.-NBA commis­sioner David Stern says the Orlando Magic will host an All­Star Game soon in their new arena. 
Stern said before Game 5 of the Sixers-Magic series Tuesday that "without question, there is an All-Star Game in Orlando's future." Stern could not give a year the city would host but said he hopes it would be announced before the 2010 All-Star Game at the new Dallas Cowboys stadium. 
Stern toured the construction site of the Orlando Events Center earlier in the day. The Magic's new arena is expected to open for the 2010-11 season. 
Stern also said he does not see the All-Star Game moving out of the country anytime soon because there are too many NBA franchises trying to host the game. 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 11 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
1 
2 3 4 5 
6 
7 8 
8 
10 
11 
12 13 14 15 
NCAA Men's Baseball Baseball America Poll 
team 
UC Irvine Rice Arizona State North Carolina LSU CS Fullerton Mississippi Texas Oklahoma GeorgiaTec:h Georgia Arkansas Cal Poly Virginia TCU Kansas Slate Baylor Miami (Fla.) Florida State Texas A&M Clemson Alabama Kent State Florida East Carolina 
record 
30-11 28-10 
31-9 
35-11 
33-11 
29-11 
32-12 
29-11 
33-11 
28-11 
33-11 
29-12 
29-10 
34-9 
27-12 
31-11 
25-17 
29-14 
30-12 
28-15 
30-15 
29-15 
32-9 
31-14 
31-13 
NCAA Men's Tennis ITA Men's Rankings 
team 
Virginia Mississippi Ohio State Georgia '(.; ' ­Tennessee Baylor 
UCLA 
usc 
Stanford Florida Kentucky Texas Illinois Alabama Texas A&M Florida State Pepperdine Wake Forest Auburn Oklahoma State 
average 
78.62 77.94 75.15 
. J ..
72.62 70.93 69.55 64.34 62.09 61.64 59.95 49.86 49.41 49.2 48.79 48.21 48.2 41.24 38.54 35.41 34.47 
NCAA Women's Golf Golf World/NGCA Poll 
team 
Arizona State 
UCLA 
usc 
Oklahoma State Virginia Auburn Alabama LSU Purdue Wake Forest 
Duke 
North Carolina Pepperdine Georgia 
Denver 
points 
540 534 496 487 
468 
433 405 383 383 363 330 308 285 248 216 
around the dial 
NBA Playoffs 
Miami at Atlanta (series tied 2-2) 8 p.m., TNT 
New Orleans at Denver (DEN leads 3-1) 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
page 18 Wednesday, April 29, 2009 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

MLB 


Colon and Quentin lead Sox over M's 
Phillies bounce Nats behind Utley's blasts 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Behind a strong start from Bartolo Colon, the Chicago White Sox won in an unusual way. 
Colon pitched seven effec­tive innings and Paul Konerko hit a two-run dou­ble, leading Chicago to a brisk 2-1 victory over the Seattle Mariners in the first game of a doubleheader Tuesday. 
The White Sox won despite having as many hits (two) as errors. · 
"That's a miracle," Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen said. 
Colon bounced back after struggling in his previous start at Baltimore. The burly right-hander allowed only an unearned run and four hits, pitching out of a jam in the seventh. He struck out six and walked one in a game that took just 1 hour, 52 minutes -the fastest in the majors this season, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
Bobby Jenks pitched around third baseman Josh Fields' error in the ninth for his fourth save. 
Chris J akubauskas (1-3) was the hard-luck loser in his first career complete game, a two-hitter. He retired the side in order every inning except the fourth, walking one and striking out four in eight innings. 
In his previous outing, Jakubauskas allowed six runs in 3 1/3 innings of a loss to Tampa Bay. 
"I thought Jakubauskas was outstanding, especially coming off of the game last time, to rebound from that," Mariners manager Don Wakamatsu said. 
White Sox reliever Matt Thornton pitched a perfect eighth and Jenks a scoreless ninth. With runners on first and second, he struck out pinch-hitter Mike Sweeney swinging and got pinch-hit­ter Wladimir Balentien on a fly to center. 
The game was a makeup of Monday night's rainout. Seattle right-hander FeUx Hernandez was scheduled to face John Danks in the nightcap. 
Colon (2-1) allowed five runs and eight hits in three innings of Thursday's 6-2 loss at Baltimore, his short­est start since July 23, 2007. 
Colon said the difference 
from  his  last  start  was  
pregame preparation.  
"In  the  bullpen  I  felt  

warm, I felt prepared. In my last start in Baltimore I did­n't feel like I warmed up enough befor~ I started the game, but today I felt good. I felt really good coming out of the bullpen," he said. 
Colon cruised through the first six innings, but ran into trouble in the seventh. After a one-out walk to Russell Branyan, Jose Lopez reached safely on an error 
by second baseman Brent 
Lillibridge. 
Rob Johnson followed with an RBI double, but Colon minimized the damage. Franklin Gutierrez fouled out and so did Yuniesky Betancourt -after just missing a three-run homer down the left-field line. 
Jakubauskas, making his third start in place of injured Ryan Rowland­Smith, retired his first 10 batters. He walked Fields in the fourth, then allowed a single to Carlos Quentin. With two outs, Konerko doubled down the left-field line, scoring Fields and Quentin. 
Phillles 7, Nationals 1 
Chase Utley homered twice and drove in three runs, Pedro Feliz added a three-run shot and the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Washington Nationals 7­1 Tuesday night for their fifth straight victory. 
Raul Ibanez also went deep for the Phillies, who won despite losing ace Cole Hamels early for the second consecutive start. The left­bander came out in the fifth inning after spraining his left ankle trying to field John Lannan's bunt. 
Hamels, making his fourth start, appeared to be on his way to his first win. He allowed four hits and struck out four in 4 1-3 innings, leaving with a 5-0 lead. 
The World Series MVP left last Thursday's start against Milwaukee with a bruised left shoulder after being hit by Prince Fielder's line drive with one out in the fourth. 
Chad Durbin (1-0) came on in relief of Hamels and allowed only Adam Dunn's sixth-inning homer in 3 2-3 innings. 
Durbin got plenty of help from the Phillies offense. Utley had three hits and Ibanez led off the eighth with a homer to left-center, his seventh this season. He also had a go-ahead grand slam in the eighth inning of Monday night's 13-11 win. 
Ryan Zimmerman extend­ed his major league-leading hitting streak to 17 games with a first-inning double off the left-field wall for Washington (4-15), which has lost five of six and owns baseball's worst record. 
Zimmerman's streak is the longest for the Nationals organization but trails the franchise record of 31 set in 1999 by Vladimir Guerrero with the Montreal Expos. 
The Phillies scored five times in the third on a two­run homer to right by Utley and Feliz's shot to left. Utley led off the fifth with a solo drive to right, giving Philadelphia a 6-0 advan­tage. 
Utley is 8-for-14 with five RBis off Lannan (0-3). who gave up six runs -three earned -and nine hits in five innings. 


Course Instructor Feedback  
Completing C!Fs  
allows you to see student feedback  Your feedback contributes to the  
next semester through the  improvement of teaching and learning at NO.  
Enhanced Class  The feedback  
Search (ECS} tooL  window for most courses closes the last reading day Sunday, May 3.  
eou1se tnslructor Feedback (CIFJ is the system thJt replaces TCEs  Other courses may close ear1ier.  
fdi]UNIVERSJTY O.F ~NOTRE DAME  


Wednesday, April 29, 2009 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 

NHL 

Federov, Capitals down Rangers 2-1 to advance 
Hurricanes move into second round after Devils squander late lead, surrender two goals in final 1:20 
the 21st team in NHL history
Associated Press 
to win a series after trailing 
WASHINGTON -Thanks to 3-1. sage old Sergei Fedorov and a It's also the franchise's first monumental comeback, the series victory since the 1997­Washington Capitals are 98 season, when Washington headed to the second round made it all the way to the of the NHL playoffs for the Stanley Cup finals. It must first time in more than a feel particularly sweet to decade. reigning league MVP Alex 
Fedorov beat Henrik Ovechkin and the 15 other Lundqvist with 4:59 left in the players who were on the team third period, and the Capitals a year ago, when the Capitals edged the New York Rangers also trailed 3-1 in the first 2-1 in Game 7 of their round, and also forced a Eastern Conference quarterfi­Game 7 at home -only to nal Tuesday night, becoming lose to Philadelphia in over-
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre 
Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom~ 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments 
Newly Remodeled 
Free Internet 
Free Water 
On-Site Laundry 
Off-Street Parking 
Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­
call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at 
www.kramerhouses.com 
(574)234-2436 
time. 
The Capitals will face 
Pittsburgh next. 
New York's Nik Antropov and Washington's Alexander Semin traded first-period goals. Fedorov, playing in his eighth career Game 7, took a pass from Matt Bradley on his winner and, with Rangers defenseman Wade Redden screening Lundqvist, sent a shot inside the far post. 
The first player over to cel­ebrate with the 39-year-old Fedorov, a past NHL MVP who won three Stanley Cups with Detroit? Ovechkin, who hopped on the back of his teammate and countryman. Ovechkin had scored in three consecutive games but was mostly silent Tuesday, two days after proclaiming Lundqvist "can't play every game like a god." 
Lundqvist was pretty good in Game 7, and Capitals rook­ie Simeon Varlamov settled down after an early flurry of activity. Varlamov got a lot of help: Washington limited New York to one shot in the third period. 
Things didn't start that way. The Rangers tested Varlamov twice in the opening 45 sec­onds, with Sean Avery taking a shot, then Antropov coming in 1-on-1 and unsuccessfully trying to stuff a backhander past the goalie's right skate. 
The Capitals looked flat, and the Rangers took the game's first five shots. It did­n't take long for New York to lead. 
Brandon Dubinsky skated around Varlamov, keeping control of the puck and send­ing it through a Capitals play­er's legs back to Antropov, who scored his first goal since Game 1. 
Ovechkin picked up the puck, then skated over to fling it over the boards into the Capitals bench area. Avery -like Antropov a late­season addition -earned a secondary assist. 

shots until 13 minutes in, when Tom Poti's attempt from the point on a power play was easily kicked aside by Lundqvist. The hosts were held to fewer than three shots in a period for the first time all season. 
But Washington's second shot found the net, basically by accident, to tie the game at 15:34. Nicklas Backstrom left the puck behind him for Semin, who ripped a shot right as New York's Ryan Callahan dived. The puck appeared to deflect off Callahan at least once, if not twice, and possibly off anoth­er New York player, fooling a sprawling Lundqvist as it flut­tered end-over-end above his left skate. 
Capitals tough guy, Donald Brashear was out, suspended by the NHL for six games ­five for a hit that broke a bone near Rangers center Blair Betts' eye in Game 6. 
Hurricanes 4, Devils 3 

The Carolina Hurricanes stole their thrilling first­round series from the New Jersey Devils in the final 80 seconds. 
Jussi Jokinen and Eric Staal scored in a 48-second span late in the third period and the Hurricanes stunned the Devils 4-3 in Game 7 of their first-round Eastern Conference playoff series Tuesday night. 
It was the second shocking loss for the Devils in the series. They lost Game 4 on a goal by Jokinen with 0.2 sec­onds to play. 
This time they gave away the series in the final 1:20. 
Jokinen tied the game after taking a great cross-ice setup by Joni Pitkanen. Staal then buried the Devils with a shot from the middle of the right circle with 31.7 seconds to play. 
Carolina next plays top­seeded Boston. 
Tuomo Ruutu and Ray 
The Capitals had no official Whitney also scored for 

•
•
•

Eat well. Be happy. •
• 
•

• EfY~ a.. ~it-t...Ja.h.r/Jts--a.rr-~ 'jf ji"£SJ.1 or~IC!. 1 • 
hi~ ft.J.-aJ1-Iy Jocd.S. 

.. 
• FEATURING HOURS .. Breakfast served all day Sunday -Tuesday; 7a.m. -2p.m. •• 
• Hous~-made soups, sdlads. and sandwiches Wednesday -Saturday; 7a.m., 9p.m. 
•• Gourmet pizzas 
• Great wine seltXtion!
• 
• Dinner specials Wednesday •Saturday
• 
• Ask about ourcatering!
• 
• 
• 
• 
.. 
located inToscana ParkShopping Centre • 303 Florence Ave., Granger, IN 46530
•
• E-mail: lnfo@uptownkltchen.net • W~b: www.UptownK1cchen.net
• 
•
• 
• • 


574.968.3030 • • 
Reservations accepted for any meal. 
• 

Carolina and Cam Ward was magnificent, making 32 saves. 
Brian Rolston, Jay Pandolfo and Jamie Langenbrunner connected for New Jersey, while Martin Brodeur made 27 saves in a game that will be remembered as much for Carolina's comeback as the Devils' choke. 
For the Devils, it was their second straight first-round exit, and this one had to be tougher than last year's embarrassing loss in five games to the Rangers. 
New Jersey was 1:20 away from advancing when its world was shattered. 
Defenseman Tim Gleason dived to keep in a puck at the point and slid it across to Pitkanen. He skated down the boards, faked a shot and found Jokinen low in the right circle for a shot that went between Brodeur's legs as he 
slid  across  to attempt the  
save.  
Staal won  the game with  a  

blast from the same circle that silenced the crowd of 17,625. 
At the end, the Hurricanes jumped into one another's arms while the Devils stood in their end of the ice in disbe­lief. 
Until the late rally, Rolston's second-period, power-play blast was the difference. It came after a giveaway by Carolina's Patrick Eaves in the Devils' zone. 
Brodeur then stood tall and made three saves on a two­man Carolina power-play advantage. All seemed set for New Jersey to advance ­until the late collapse. 
Whitney had tied the game 2-2 earlier in the period on a fluky goal. Staal made a pass from behind the net that Whitney took a swing at and missed. The puck hit his skate and went in the net. 
Ruutu quieted the white­towel-waving Devils crowd ­at least for a minute or so ­when he fired a shot from the right circle and beat Brodeur just 62 seconds after the opening faceoff. 
Langenbrunner got the fans going again a little more than a minute later. Zach Parise skated around the net and sent a cross-ice pass to the captain for a slam-dunk from the side of the net. 
Linemates Brendan Shanahan and John Madden made excellent plays to set up Pandolfo's go-ahead goal. Shanahan took a hit by defenseman Dennis Seidenberg at the blue line while making the pass to set up Madden and Pandolfo on a 2-on-1. Madden centered the puck from the left circle and Pandolfo redirected it past Ward. 
rage 

Between NotrfJ [lame & 
Airpott at the comer {}f

Mayflowsf & Edisonspace Ca/1574~247. 7805 
Lighted &Paved Free Lock with Every Unit 
.. 4 ~nth Spet~ilt .·· May tllrQugh Augu$t lotNotte Dame Students 5x10...$169 + DEP 10x10...$269 +DEP 
Wednesday, April29, 2009

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles square off in MIAA tournament 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
It has all come down to this for Saint Mary's, as the Belles will spend the upcoming weekend challenging their conference for the top spot in the MIAA. 
The Belles (9-9, 4-4 MIAA) evened their conference record to .500 after their final seasonal matchup against Olivet. 
"We have had a decent year, but want to strive for better results," Belles coach Dale Campbell said. "We know we have the ability, but we have to work harder and smarter to be up with the top teams in our conference." 
Junior captain Camille Gebert has probably been the most impressive Belle this season, going undefeated in her spot at No. 2 singles. 
One area of the game that coach Campbell wants to work on is the girls' doubles play before they are challenged by some of the top teams in the MIAA. 
"We are changing our dou­bles strategy," Campbell said. "We have changed the lineup and we are trying to play a more aggressive style of dou­bles going into the conference tourney. We will have to take chances to win." 
In their conference matches, the Belles have defeated Trine, Adrian, Olivet and Alma, but have fallen in their meetings against Kalamazoo, Albion, Hope and Calvin Colleges. 
Both Kalamazoo and Albion promise the most difficulty to beat come this weekend's matches. Gebert was the only Belle able to pull out a win during the Saint Mary's sea­sonal play against these two MIAA tennis powerhouses. 
One aspect that makes this year's competition at the con­ference original is the fact that it is Campbell's first trip to the MIAA tournament as Saint Mary's coach. Despite it being the team's first trip under Campbell's guidance, he will enter the match know­ing the competition. 
"We know what to expect and I know as a new coach in this conference what to expect, given it is the first time that I have seen our opponents," Campbell said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

NBA 

Celtics edge Bulls 106-104 
Pierce's late run leads Boston after Allen fouls out in overtime thriller 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Paul Pierce made three straight jumpers in the final 77 seconds of overtime and the Boston Celtics held on to beat the Chicago Bulls 106­104 on Tuesday night to take a 3-2 lead in their best-of-seven playoff series. 
Rajon Rondo scored 28 points with 11 assists and eight rebounds, and Kendrick Perkins had 16 points, 19 rebounds and seven blocks for the Celtics. It was the third time in five games the teams have needed overtime, a sur­prising first-round struggle for the defending NBA champions. 
Ben Gordon scored 26 and Joakim Noah had 11 points and 17 rebounds for Chicago, but Brad Miller missed the potential game-tying free throws with 2 seconds left in overtime. 
The Bulls return home for Game 6 on Thursday night hoping to extend the series; Game 7, if necessary, would be in Boston on Saturday. 
Pierce, who scored 19 of his 26 points in the second half and overtime, gave Boston a 102-101 lead with 1:17 left, then hit another with 37 sec­onds to play to make it 104­101 before Tony Allen fouled Gordon while attempting a 3­pointer with 28 seconds to play. Gordon hit all three free throws to tie it 1 04-all. 
Pierce got the ball and drib­bled down the clock before hit­ting a long 2-pointer over John Salmons with 3.4 seconds left. 

The Bulls called a timeout and got the ball in to Miller, who had a surprisingly clear path to the basket but sailed a layup wide. 
The Boston Garden crowd celebrated, but the referees immediately huddled, called a foul on Rondo and put Miller on the line with 2 seconds left. 
With the building shaking, Miller missed the first, then tried to miss the second on purpose but failed to hit the rim. 
It was another close call for the Celtics -this time with two of the Big Three on the bench. Kevin Garnett is out for what could be the entire play­off run with strained ligaments in his right knee, and Ray Allen -who hit the game-winning 3-pointer in Game 2 -fouled out with 5:27 left in regulation. 
The Bulls scored the first seven points of the fourth quarter to open the first dou­ble-digit lead of the game. The Celtics scored nine in a row to make it a one-point game, 83­82, with 4:27 left, but it was costly because Allen fouled out 18 seconds after hitting a key 3-pointer. 
Boston tied it 91-all after another block by Perkins sent Rondo off on a fast break, and he found Pierce for the layup with 66 seconds left in regula­tion. The point guards traded mistakes, then Gordon hit a leaner from the right side to give the Bulls the lead with 16 seconds left. 
But Pierce sank a 15-footer to tie it at 93 with 10.5 seconds left and send it into overtime. 
AI

Store Your Stun 
Mini

over the Sum1111r! 

Storage



(5741 203-0512 
6482 Brick Road. Sooth a~nd 
Depot

located at CiE'Vdand il<t& US 20 Syp;m, 'I minutesfrom <atrtpu$ 

Wednesday, April 29, 2009 page 21
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


ANTHROPOLOGY Madeline Boyer Jillian Brems Cristina M. Crespo Robin Yim Jennifer Zabel 
ARABIC 
Brian Torro 
ART HISTORY 
Teresa Nesbitt 
CLAS 
Katy Fles 
Kristen Liest 
Daniel Perkey 

EACL 
Edith Felix 
Brandon Frost 
ENGLISH Elizabeth Meaney Alexa McMahon Katherine Palu1nbo Alexander Stachniak 
FTT Matt Goodrich Kathleen .H.ession Ashley Williams 
FRENCH 
Marcus Gatto David Mun ..en Andrew Polich 
HISTORY Brandon Frost Michelle Garber Heidi Hausse John Hennessey Brian San1acki Patrick Smyth MATH Cody Mack Kaitlin Moran 
MUSIC Nicholas McCollum Nicholas Shaneyfelt Alex Woller 
PEACE STUDIES Rachel Brzezinski Rafael Diaz Sarah Miller 
PHIL Emilee Booth Jonathan Buttaci Miranda Moyer Victor Saenz Jacqueline Sheridan 
THEO Andrew Chronister Mary Geier Brendan Shea 





Best wishes in your future endeavors. 

POLS Paula Alfonso John Avila Andrew Bertoli Aimee Brewster Jennifer Cassidy Alice Ciciora Rafael Diaz Camila Escallon Sean Hoskins Daniel Krcrnaric Gabrielle Miller Miranda Moyer Michael Scholl Jacqueline Sheridan Kevin Stnith 
PLS Angela Carothers 
PSY Lauren Bohn Andrea Borrego Dan Blakely 
Noelle Crooks Bridget Gilloon Jen Hatnes Hayley McGovern Erica Harmon Alissan Schaub Lyndsey Timpone 
RUSSIAN Mary Ann Barge Katehrine Buza Jatnes Curtis Drummond 
soc 
Rachel Brzezinski Christine Farrell Meghan Johnson Jane J. Lee Annalise Loehr 



page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, April29, 2009 
' 
\ 
' 
~ 
\ \ \ 
\ Piane 
' \ \ continued from page 28 l \ 
women's indoor teams fin­ished second and fifth, 
I 
respectively. Piane hopes that \ both teams can improve on
~ 
~ 
these results from just a few months ago. I 
i 
"We would like to improve,"' I I Piane said. "But, unfortunate­ly, we can't guarantee it." 
Although the Irish have had 
~ great success this year in the distance events and some field events, the sprints that have hurt the Irish. In order to suceed this weekend, Piane said his squad would need to take advantage wherever they can to get points. 
"Everywhere we can score, we need to," Piane said. "We will need to get a couple of people scoring in events like the 5000-meter and the 800­meter instead ofjust one." 
Standing in the way of the Irish will be the best runners, throwers, and jumpers in the Big East. On the men's side, the main competition will come from Connecticut, Georgetown and No. 20 Louisville. The women will have to battle against the top Big East teams including Louisville, South Florida and Georgetown. 
After the Big East Championships this weekend, the Irish have a trip down to Atlanta for the Georgia Tech Invitational before the NCAA Regionals in late May in Louisville, Ky. So far the Irish have 18 qualifiers on the men's and women's team combined for the NCAA Regionals. Notre Dame can add to these numbers with a strong showing at this week­end.. 
The conference champi­onships begin Friday morning at 11 a.m. with the men's decathlon and women's hep­thathlon. The running and field events begin on Saturday morning with the finals concluding on Sunday. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 

l 
-, l 
Now £easing Por 2009-2010 .ftpp{y 'Today £imitetfSpace }fvaifa6fe!I I 

Offerino rtlie c&st CJl.§nta['Rg.tes in ']'qwn! $99 'For r ~cntlis f}{fnt rwith 12 ~(mtli Lease! $300 Off151 :Mantlis <%nt ulth 9 :Montli Lease! ~ret;4pplication ~ee ~orStuacnts ~h !.CD.! Close to Campus! 

Castle1'oint 
1BD1.:t Cl.e'Rl.utd A:l. SoatJt Bead, 1R 46&31
A t t
par. n1en ~' aoae: t574> 21z-•uo FilM.: (.,,..., zn-•.u.. www.aldul.com 
POLO 

Vet says polo horses overdosed on meds 
Associated Press 

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. ­Florida's top veterinarian on Tuesday blamed the deaths of 21 elite polo horses on an over­dose of a common mineral that helps muscles recover from fatigue. 
Florida's state veterinarian, Dr. Thomas J. Holt, said toxicol­ogy tests on the dead horses showed significantly increased selenium levels. 
The horses from the Venezuelan-owned Lechuza Caracas team began collapsing April 19 as they were unloaded from trailers at the International Polo Club Palm Beach in Wellington before a championship match. Some died at the scene, others hours later. 
"Signs exhibited by the horses and their rapid deaths were consistent with toxic doses of selenium," Holt said. 
The team was preparing to play in the sport's U.S. Open and was seen as a top con­tender. 
A Florida pharmacy that mixed a brew of vitamins and minerals for the team on order from its Florida veterinarian said Tuesday that the strength of selenium was incorrect. Jennifer Beckett, chief operat­ing officer for Franck's Pharmacy in Ocala, Fla., would not say whether the incorrect amount was specified in the veterinarian order or was a pharmacy error. 
"We continue to cooperate fully with the authorities as their investigations proceed," she said. "We cannot discuss further details." 
Lechuza had no comment on the toxicology report. 
The polo team had hoped to get a compound similar to a name-brand supplement known as Biodyl. The supplement is used around the world but has­n't been approved by the Food and Drug Administration in the U.S. 
Veterinarians often turn to compounding pharmacies like Franck's for medications that can't be found on shelves, but the dispensaries generally can only recreate unapproved drugs in limited circumstances, such as for health reasons. 
The FDA and state authorities are investigating. 
Biodyl is a supplement made in France by Duluth, Ga.-based animal pharmaceutical firm Merial Ltd. ·It wasn't clear how close Franck's mixture came to the name-brand drug. Lechuza said what they ordered was supposed to contain vitamin B, potassium, magnesium and selenium. 


Included on ALL new BMW's 

·Service On Most Makes and Models 
BASNEY IMPORTS-MAZDA/BMW

•From oil changes to major repairs ­
www.basneyimports.com 

we can do it all! 
55203 State Road 933 North 

•Free shuttle service 
SOUTH BEND (2 miles north of Notre Dame) 
•
Ask about our rewards program 574.272.8504 

•
Certified Body Shop for all makes &models 


Auten Rd BASNEY IMPORTS * 
Darden Rd 
""' 
(3'\ 
"'C
a:
...
Cleveland Rd 
"" 


receive Employee Pr1cing! 
BASNEY HONDA 

· . www.basneyhonda.com 
3820 N« Grape Road MISHAWAKA (Comer of Grape &Edison) 
574.256.5550 
"'0
a: 
DayRd 

Ql
Q.. 
1.! 
\.!:) 
Edison Rd 
*
BASNEY HONDA 

Wednesday, April29, 2009 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

A Cot:1litio11 ofStudents Dedicated to Notre Dt:zme, Her Catholic Identi(v, 11nd He1· Pro-Life Principles 
CAN THE UNIVERSITY'S INVITATION TO PRESIDENT 0BAMA BE CONSIDERED AN OPPORTUNITY TO 
DIALOGUE AND ENGAGE HIM? 
A commencetnent speech is a monologue, not a dialogue. Bestowing an honorary degree upon someone is a signal ofapproval and endorsement; it is not a neutral action. Giving President ()batna the podium at the University commencement exercises does not constitute a foundation upon vvhich Notre Dan1e can then critically engage President ()bama in a dialogue about his position on life issues. There is no assurance that the relationship \Viii develop beyond May 17. 
IS EXCLUDING OUR HIGHEST OFFICIALS THE APPROPRIATE WAY OF CONVERTING THEM TO OUR IDEALS? 
()pposition to honoring an ofTicial is in no \vay synonymous with excluding them. The Catholic cotnmunity n1ust work with our 
eJected officials and for this reason we are open to debate \vith President Oban1a. But we realize that dialogue presumes 
patticipants. And ifour university lacks conviction and considers even our highest honors tnere functions ofpower and not 
substance, the result is not debate. Rather, we are de facto supporters ofthose \vith the highest title and n1ost name recognition. 
HOW HAVE THE ACTIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATION BEEN AN ENDORSEMENT OF 0BAMA? 
With regards to honorary Doctorate of Law: 
The besto\val ofan honorary degree traditionally is not done in the hope ofengaging the recipient in dialogue; rather, it is an affirmation oftheir past actions and the values that underlie then1. It is inconsistent ·with an institution's identity to publicly honor and individual who is diametrically opposed to its fundan1ental moral principles. President Obama's policies and actions in oflice are opposed to the Catholic Church's teaching on lite issues, especially abortion and embryonic stem cell research. As a Catholic institution, Notre Dame should not honor President ()bama. The United States Conference ofCatholic Bishops 2004 statement 4~Catholics in Political Life" explicitly states: HThe Catholic con1munity and Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance ofour fundarnental n1oral principles. They should not be given aw·ards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions.'' 
WITH REGARDS TO SPEAKING AT COMMENCEMENT: 
Attached to the front ofthe podium fron1 which President (Jbatna will address the class of2009 is the seal ofthe University of Notre Dan1e. Just as an oflicia1 seal on any letter or envelope signii1es approval and affirn1s the legitimacy of its contents from that institution, so too does the Notre Dame podium tacitly imply approval ofthe one who speaks from it The image of President Obatna in Notre Da1ne doctoral robes standing at the podium before 2,000 Notre Dame graduates projects the irnage that his platform is acceptable to serious, reflective Catholics. 
WHY MUST ABORTION AND EMBRYo-DESTRUCTIVE STEM CELL BE RELEVANT TO THE WORTHINESS OF A COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER AND HONORARY DEGREE RECIPIENT? 
The Catholic Church identifies abortion as an intrinsic moral evil. The protection ofthe hun1an dignity of the most vulnerable and invisible members ofour society is therefore given a privileged place among social justice issues. 
President Oban1a has done many things to further the cause ofsocial justice. If he shares our Catholic values in this respect, why can we not honor him for his social justice work? 
Abortion is a social justice issue in the Catholic tradition. It is inappropriate tbr a Catholic institution to honor a public official who advances a social agenda that presumes a talse dichotomy between abortion and other social justice issues. Through rescinding the Mexico City policy expanding federal funding ofetnbryo-destnJctive stetn cell research .. President Obmna has used his office to actively threaten unborn life around the \vorld. 
AS LONG AS PRESIDENT 0BAMA AVOIDS SPEAKING ABOUT ABORTION AND EMBRYONIC STEM CELL RESEARCH, WHY IS IT WRONG TO HONOR HIM AS COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER? 
In honoring President Obama as commencement speaker, Notre Dame honors the \vhole person,. not a narrowly designated subset of his views. He is held up as a role n1odel for the graduates and as someone who has exceptional wisdom to otler. In putting President Obama on this pedestal, the University cannot simply bracket the views that are opposed to the Church's 1nost basic moral teachings. 
SJ~)~SORED UY NOTRE DAME R.lGHTTO lJFE IN CX>NJt.'NCTlON \\Tfll TltB lRlSH ROVER. NOTRE DAME COU.EGh ftEPUBI.J<;.-\NS, NOl1U~ D.'\ME COU£GE Ll8ERL\Rl;\NS, N01'RE 1);\ME ,\.NSCO!\mE SOCIETI', NOTRE LH.ME lDENTITI' I'ROJECT, .~UUTl\ OF THE IMMACUL\T.\, CJ-llLD.RE..;'{ OF hL\RY. ORESTI:.S BROWNSON COUNCJ.L. NOTRE D:\M.E L\\X' S(.'.HOOL RIGHTTO lJFE 

Wednesday, April 29, 2009 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
Big Red 
continued from page 28 
ment, and throughout the sea­son, and added that she hoped it could continue against Cornell and throughout the NCAA tournament. 
"Defensively, we played great in the conference tournament." \ Coyne said. "We had our best defensive performance of the 
\< 
I year in back to back games. So \ if we could have the defense
I 
\ I come out and play with similar intensity and focus, that would
~ ) be awesome." 
~ Leading the Irish defense was senior goalie Erin Goodman, who was named the most out­standing player of the champi­onships, and was also named the Inside Lacrosse player of the week for her performance. "It's well deserved recognition for [GoodmanJ," Coyne said. 
Elam 
continued from page 28 
lasted just 3 213 innings, giving up two runs and throwing 104 pitch­es with several Major League scouts on hand. Control issues have plagued Elam throughout his Irish career, but scouts loved his low-90s fastball and sharp break­ing ball enough to draft him in the 23rd round of last year's draft. 
"The first three innings, I thought he looked really good," Schrage said. "Whether he tired or lost his focus, he couldn't locate after that and got himself in trou­ble." 
The Horizon League-leading Flames (18-19, 11-4) capitalized on what Schrage calls "freebies," or the number of free bases his team allows each game. Notre Dame allowed at least 16 Tuesday: six walks, four hit bat­ters, four wild pitches, a balk and an error. 
"We play these midweek games and people take it for granted. These teams can play," said soph­omore third baseman Mick Doyle, who led the Irish with three hits. "I don't know if we don't under­stand it, but it's an effort thing." 
The Flames struck first, as catcher Nathan Orfs two-out dou­ble in the third plated frrst base­man Brandon Harwell for the game's first run. 
Notre Dame scored three times to grab the lead in it." half of the third. Sophomore second base­man Greg Sherry was hit by a pitch to start the inning, and he advanced to second on a balk. Sophomore left fielder Golden Tate's line-drive single up the mid­dle scored Sherry to tie the game, and he moved into scoring posi­tion on another balk. 
After senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes singled and sophomore designated hitter David Casey reached on a fielder's choice to load the bases, Doyle hit a routine fly ball that should have been an easy out. But right fielder Chris Rutta lost his footing on the slick outfield grass, allowing Tate to score and each runner to move up a base. Junior right fielder David Mills would add a single to right to give the Irish a 3-1 edge. 
"He was probably one of our hottest hitters over the weekend and he kept it up today," Schrage said of Doyle, who is 15-for-29 in eight games since moving back to third base. 
Doyle added: "I'm just trying to be aggressive early in the count and hit as many fastballs as I can." 
Elam's Lontrol began to elude him in the fourth, when Illinois­Chicago managed to tie the game with just one hit. After a lead-off "She's very relaxed and confi­dent right now. I don't think she has to change a thing about the way she's playing." 
Offensively, the Irish had six difl"erent players score at least one goal in the Big East cham­pionship game against Georgetown, something that Coyne said she'd like to contin­ue. 
"Continuing to have the scor­ing spread out is going to be one of the keys to victory," Coyne said. 
A win would put Notre Dame at 15-4 overall and give them a chance at a very high seed in the NCAA Championships, which would allow them to play at home throughout the tourna­ment. 
The Irish will meet Cornell on Schoellkopf Field in Ithaca, N.Y. Saturday at noon. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister 1 @nd.edu 
walk and a balk, third baseman Jason Ganek singled to cut the lead to 3-2. 
Elam then walked and hit the next two batters, respectively, but got a bases-load strikeout for the second out. He hit Harwell with a 3-1 delivery, however, forcing in the tying run and causing Schrage to bring in sophomore right-han­der Evan Oanieli. Danieli, who hadn't pitched since his Feb. 22 start against Purdue with tendini­tis, fell behind 3-0 but battled back to strike out Orf with three straight-looking strikes. 
Danieli struggled in the fifth, walking the first hitter on four pitches before allowed a two-run, opposite-field home run to left fielder Jake Carr. Danieli, who took the loss, was chased after giving up a walk and a hit, but junior right-hander Steven Mazur got out of the jam with help from junior A.J. Pollock's perfect throw from center field that kept a run from scoring and completed a double play. 
Notre Dame cut the lead in half in the bottom of the fifth, as Casey and Doyle lined one-out singles to center in front of junior first base­man Casey Martin's RBI single. 
After Mazur's scoreless sixth, the Irish wasted a golden opportu­nity to take the lead. Pollock and Tate both reached to start the inning but were stranded on first and second, respectively. 
From there, Illinois-Chicago exploded. Mazur allowed five runs in the inning, which began with Andy Leonard's double. After a one-out single put runners at the corner, Ganek's third opposite­field knock of the day plated the sixth Flames run. Rutta then blasted a mammoth three-run homer that cleared the left-field fence with ease. 
Another single chased Mazur, and junior righty Andrew Scheid finished the game for the Irish, throwing three innings of score­less relief. 
The loss was Notre Dame's third in its last four non-conference games, which are typically sched­uled in the middle of the week as tune-ups for weekend Big East series. 
"We've done this a lot this sea­son and it's getting a little bit old," Doyle said of the team's non-con­ference struggles. "Coaches are harping on it all the time and it's just an effort thing. We've got to bring our 'N game every day." 
With three three-game Big East series still to play, the Irish -who currently sit fifth in the 12-team conference's standings -believe there is still ground to be made up, beginning with this weekend's home series against Connecticut. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
at Saint Marys College 
Want to get ahead and still have time for summer fun? Need to lighten your course load in the fall? Enroll in the Saint Maryls College Summer Sessions 
and take advantage of 

• 
small class sizes that invite <onversation and collaboration 

• 
personal attention from professors, not TAs 

• 
avariety ofclasses, from physiology to photography, including study-abroad experiences 



Many ofthese classes allow you to earn three credits in just three weeks. 
For more information and to enroll, visit saintmarys.edu/summer today! 


, 
Summer Sessions are open to both male and female students. 
I ~ 
~ 


-tit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRii D/\ME, IN saintmarys_edu 

To be successful in today's global world, students need to study Europe. the home of two-thirds of a billion people and a fascinating collage of history, politics, languages, and cultures. The Nanovic Institute for European Studies congratulates over JOO graduate and undergraduate students who are exploring Europe through our grant programs for travel and research, internship, and advanced language study. 

ENORMOUS DIVERSITY ENDLESS POSSIBILITIES 
Interested in frnding out more? Visit nanovic.nd.edu. 
C1ft your swnmer '>tartt•d tiqht a!: ont of the Best Ubf~ml Arts Colleges in 1he nation. 
-U.S. News & World Rttport 
1\~!Wr\ca':> Be'>l Cuileqes 2009 

Wednesday, April 29, 2009 page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 


DeBartolo Hall 


STUDY DATES AND Tl!\lES: Apri130, May 1, 2, 3:7am to 3:00am 1\lidnight Snacks! Exam Dates: May 4-8: Rooms al'ailable except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. May 8: DeBartolo Hall closes at 5:00pm. 
See Building Support Personnel ifyou have specific needs: Room 103 or I04. 
~ 

Coleman-Morse: April 30-May 8: 
l<"inals Week! Rooms available except K'hen scheduled by the Registrar's office. 
t·st Floor: 7:00am-4:00am 2nd floor: 7:00am-3:00am 3rd Floor: 7:00am-12am J\:1ay 8 : Coleman .. 1\lorse closes at 5:30 pm 
See Building Support Person Room 10I ifyou have a specific need. 
O'Shaughnessy: April30-May 8: 7am to 3:00am Non-Technology Rooms only available when not scheduled by Registrar: 204,206, 207, 208,209, 242,338, and 345 ;4f: Good Luck with Finals ;'~ 
.\[wdlll drunll!• to 
.4uxillory om/ Faeilily Otwrutilllf.~, Cnmplt~· Mini.'>tr}' and the SJudent Vniort BtHJrtf. 


GWLL 
continued from page 28 

However, Corrigan believes that Notre Dame's performance in the GWLL tournament could have a significant effect on their seed. 
"I think that's true and the converse is true as well," Corrigan said. ''If we don't play well and we don't do what we think we should do, we leave our fate in the hands of the committee and I don't think we want to do that. I think we want to take care of our side of things. We're really just focused on playing better lacrosse." 
Throughout the season, the Irish have done a good job of remaining focused on playing better lacrosse, which has helped them improve since the season began. Corrigan believes that this focus on improvement has helped the Irish succeed 
Gumpf 
continued from page 28 

"We have hitters throughout our entire line up that can change the game in one swing," Gumpf said. "Our hit­ters also have the strength and ability to come back at any time, even ifwe are down in a game." 
Senior outfielder Beth Northway and junior infielder Christine Lux are tied for the team lead in hitting with .367 and .356 averages, respectfully. Also consistently making a name for herself at the plate is freshman third baseman Dani Miller, sport­ing a batting average of .343. 
"Our defense is putting in the hard work day in and day out to become a better defensive unit, and they are not satisfied with anything less than perfect," Northway said. 
Defensively, the Irish (34-13, 15-3) are making great strides. Both starting pitchers, sophomore Jodi Valdivia (2.56 ERA) and sen­ior Brittney Bargar (1.62) have lead the Irish to a strong season. 
"Our best defensive quality is 
this year and that continued improvement will be key for Notre Dame to make a deep postseason run. 
"There's nothing besides con­tinuing to improve," Corrigan said. "We need to go to practice everyday to continue to improve. There's no magic for­mula for success. We have nobody coming back from injuries, we can't make any trades, so we have the guys we have and we need to keep working and keep improving. When we come back every Monday and when we watch video, no matter what happens, we continue to look at what we can do to improve. Hopefully we'll have another three to four weeks to continue to do that." 
The Irish face off against Quinnipiac and begin their quest for a second straight GWLL title at 5 p.m. on Friday. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@od.edu 
our pitching," Lux said. "Both pitchers have been our defensive rock this entire season, they make sure to keep us in the ball game, and put us in a great posi­tion to win." 
While Georgetown (14-29, 6­13) and Providence (25-25-2, 8­
12) are both behind the Irish in the conference standings, Gwnpfs squad isn't looking past their opponents. 
"Both Providence and Georgetown are not teams to be underestimated," Lux said. "However, as long as we focus on Notre Dame softball and play our game, we should come back with 3 solid wins." 
Northway echoed her team­mate, saying ifthe Irish just con­centrated on their own play, the wins would follow. 
"I think we just need to keep ,... focusing on what we've been doing, continuing to get lots of extra swings in to stay comfort­able at the plate, and defensively just keep working the fundamen­tals every day to stay sharp field­ing," Northway said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3,4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhou ses.com 


(574) 234-2436 . 
r 
~ 
\' \. 
\ 
\' 
\' 
\ 
' 
\
I . \ 
\
., 
~ 
\ 
' 
! \ 
' 
\ 
~ ~ ~ 
\ 
I \ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
r ) \ 
\ ) 
\ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
\ 
\'· 
li 
t{ 
l . ' 
r 
>
(. 
~ 
' 
' 
1 
f 
) 
r ·' I 
J I 




--------------------.. 
page 26 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April29, 2009 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY IS INVITED TO ATTEND A MEMORIAL MASS ASWE MOURN THE LOSS OF 
Kevin C. Healey 
Class of 2011 ­College ofArts & Letters Sarin Hall 



BASILICA OFTHE SACRED HEART Sunday, May 3, 2009 4:00p.m. 
Rev.John I. Jenkins, C.S. C., Presider Rev.James B. King, C. S.C., Homilist ]avi Z ubizarreta, Words ifRemembrance 
Concelebrants Welcome 




Wednesday, April29, 2009 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
Across  33 Tuskegee's  59 Only beardless  
Tree trunk  locale: Abbr.  Disney dwarf  
5 SomeHOTVs  34 Nutmeg State  60 Have a knish,  
9 Heartbreaker  sch.  say  
who's "back in  35 Ore suffix  61 Orbiting  
town~ in a 1980 Carty Simon hit 14 Feature of mesh fabrics 16 The Carolinas. e.g., to the French 170ebugs computer programs, e.g. 19 Two of racing's Unsers 20 Neighbor of B.C. 21 San -• Marin County 22la _Tar PitS 23 Bird feeder fill 24 Responds to rashes  36 "What·~-" ("Ho­hum") 38Rap sheet entries, for short 39 Messenger _ 40 Record label owned by Sony 41 Does some mending 45 Cellular construction 460verlook 470neot the Leeward Islands 50 Hesitant sounds 51 Mexicali Mrs. 54 Lines up the sewing 57 Coral creation  telescope launcher Down Florida city, for short 2 Australian gem 3 ~sure, why not?!" 4 Business letter abbr. 5 Return to one's seat? 6 Quarterof Algiers 7 Batter's fig. 8 Ethiopia's Haile 9 Glitterati  
 
31 Uke Papa Bear's porridge  58 Blood type historically  10 Blah. blah, blah, for short  Puzzle by Jerry E. Rosman  
32 Collect sp6nters, considered the universal donor ·---­so to speak ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  11 Sattrist Mort 12 Skier's tum 13 Gas brand in Canada  30 Long tales 35 What oysters "R" during "R" months  40 Set a lofty goal 42 Raw material for Wrigley's, once 43 To a great  49 'Vette roof option 51 Islamic sect 52 Amps up  
15 Prestigious business school 18 Umiak  36 Oa Vinci or Michelangelo, to Romans  degree 44 MapQuest offerings  53 On the main 55 _..Cat (winter  
passenger  37 Wordsmith's ret.  47 Make _clash  vehicle)  
22 Road. in the  39 Florenz Zlegfeld  48 Brussels-based  56 Doz. eggs,  
Rheinland  offering  affiance  commonly  
24 Speech spot  For answers, call1-900-265-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit  
25 Tiramisu topper  card, 1-800-814-5554,  
26 Place to rule 27 Business sign  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NVTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit  
abbr.  nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.  
28 Like Siberian winters  Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puules, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips; oytirnes.comlwordplay.  
29 Give a lift  Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.~amingtxwords.  


MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

www.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

PAT GARTLAND

fORBIDDEN DONUT 

EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 
Cf:U~BIUTI£..'1 UORN ONUUS lH\': Je~'iica AIIM, Z8; Pcudopc Cnu.. 35; Jay Lcno. 
59. Ann M<Ul!ret. 68 

~ 
Unppy Birthday: Don't kt any<lllC di"'-'r•nrage you when you knnw i11 yuur heart what 
n~e<h to be dnllt' to reach your 1wals. Your passioo, iutc)!rity ru~ti ClOIJCriencc will help you 
mmter upcuougb di<Uisnlll and cooJi<ktlcc to cx~L Youomulbcrs are 4, W. L~, 2J, 28, 
U.40 

ARIES (MMeh ll·April -9): Don't stand b!ll:k waititll! for >ometliiC elw to SJX'ak up ou yoor behalf. You can make reforms thai \\i.ll baw a hu~e nnpa,·c on the 1"'-"opl.: in your life. A relatimtship will iltttfer a power slnt~~k. 4 ~taN 
'fAt:Rl!S C..\prillft-May 2fh: N"w Js not l111: tink~ lobe lazy wlx:utl's vital thai you b.we 
yo\U" f~ts strai~t A l~;~t can ba~lf.)CU if poor inf....nnation filters to 1)\."<lf.lle who lo,·c to 
spre.1d mmors. Nip any misconct.')llimt quickly. bef(ll'e you lm\'t' lo rmublt>sboot insread ll( 
IJCin~ productive. J ;;Jars 

<Hi:MINJ tMay lt-Junl' 20): SonJe{)fl(''s m?JJility to be prufe$l'iou;1l will C;itt-'ie tlllJlCCes· ~· laJ>t minut~: dt1111ge~. You can U:!SC cuiOlioual tact.il:s to get yotU' way hut do so lwo·win!l chat you wlU probably pay the price latcr. ~\ stars 
<'ANCER (JWH'll-July ll}: Dun't ~iv~ away your ~rds. Yoo are better off hsienmg. to what everyone else bas 10 \11}'. espeo~;ially if if pertains to peovk you lt:uov.· well Make ~·our po:;ilioo dear bt11 without favoritism. if you want lo protect )'Ot.U' pollition. 3 ~tars 
tEO Uuly Z.~·/utg. ll): Tite tmtb is likely to be told if you ba,·e a rueetin~ willt someone whtJ M$ been coufusin~ you lately. Yon w1l1 be betkr equippai to hun thins-~ aiUillld ooc-e you m~tand what went wron~. You may have to adJmt your shortconunf!s ill order to make an~emh. 4 stars 
VIRGO (.-\u~. 2J....Ypt. lll: Your steady tlt0)1ress Wlll be Jlft10f that you know what you are doing and that yoo c~m fi.Jt anything that is spum.inp. out of rontn)(. Your ~uidance will be ba~ on dellr ·I.'UI \•ision, leru.tinp: to Rreat~r respe..-t and ~W.Ivan~..-ement. J stm 
UBR;\ (Sept. l:J.()ct.:ll): If you a~k fw too much. you ma,· oot ~el atl)1bin~ al all. tf you make ;a nustake uow, you will end up trouble.s..·booting mstead of accm.npli~biug what you se-'1 out to do. Utilize your tune wi'l<e!~~ 5stan 
SCORP~O COd. 13-No-w.lH: Face fteachm whatever is gmug wrong. Problems rtt home may rausc.~ an adde-d expense. Caution um~t be lako:tl when di:>eussin~ YOtiJ' perwnal thought~ with housemate:s, landlords or ntlghbor~. 3 st.m 
SAGI1"URIUS (Nov. 22-0.C.ll): K~p looking 0\lef your should..'!'. Someone is prob·· al>ly trying to dismrulllc your plans or lake over Ylltlr job. Double cbcxk your 1•.-ork and follow throuph on every detail. Respond pa~sionatdy to a relation~hip lltl~oinfl, a lot of emotions. .J starl> 
C\PRI('ORN 1~. 22-Jan. 19l: Gre<~tcr ~"llrit\' can be \-otlrs if \'otl ~ick clo~ to home and show your loyalty to the people who haw $fOOd up f01\"0t1 m lhc past. Renovations will add to your as!><.~~·-Build a special place to work at home so yon can spend m•xe rime u·ith family..l stars 
AQL\RiliS I.Jan. 20-f;'E-b. 18): You lli<W be fnrccd to ansu,.-er bard qncstwn~. This is not the cimt·to durt issut'S. Your holiCStY wi!fbc a-bat evervune wants lo hear. Your tnte friend.~ will litick by you, 110 malf.:r \,-n.,, your dedstou~ 5 sian 
PISCES ff'eb. 19-Murclt lll}: t.~onumulicat il.lll wiU ltelp you tinnlile something you've IJecll tryinp: to do for a l<lllg 1imc. Don't c!laggcmle w ym1may b:tv¢ to }I.'I.Y for mi~leadint:t t.ltlk'rs. Afanuly feud will start because someone has ll\.>cu keeping se<.<rets. 1stars 
Birthday Rab)·: You are venatlle. imagmMivc, as<;(.'flivc and !L>atf} for chan~e. Yon :m~ :m excellent nmuuurucator ru1d a wi!liuj! ('andidat·c for adventure. • 
JEFF KNUREK



JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, How does this loOk~
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TYFFI 



I [ J 


©2009 Tribune Medfa Services, Inc. 



~~~rtrJ 
tMOHGEA I 


) () () WHAT HlS WIFE DtD 
WHEN SHE PICKED OUT A WATCH. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A:r IIIJrii J"[I IIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I 
Jumbles: AGENT DIZZY TURBAN MANAGE Yesterday's Answer: 
How the teen's loud music left Dad ­
"EAR~tTATEO" 
----~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Con1munity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year .... 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

Wednesday, April29, 2009 
page 28 


MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish prepare for GWLL tourney opener vs. Quinnipiac 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
After completing its first ever undefeated regular season in program history, No. 2 Notre Dame remains the lone unbeat­en team in Division I lacrosse. With the Irish's postseason set to kick off this weekend at the Great Western Lacrosse League tournament in Birmingham, 
BASEBALL 
Notre Dame falls to Illinois-Chicago in long, rain-soaked affair 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
Steady rains tried to help the Irish put out the Flames, but the Illinois-Chicago offense ignited for five seventh-inning runs to beat Notre Dame, 10-5, at Frank Eck Stadium Tuesday. 
The Notre Dame (25-17, 10-8 Big East) pitching staff was rocked for the straight game, allowing 13 hits after giving up 15 in Sunday's 13-12 win over Louisville. 
"We hit the ball fine, but you can't win many games when you give up 10 runs," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "We didn't get very good middle relief." 
Senior left-bander Sam Elam 
see ELAM/page 24 
Mich., Notre Dame (13-0, 5-0) could be poised to make its deepest tournament run since advancing to the National Semifinals in 2001. 
The Irish formula for success this season has come as a result of its balanced offensive attack and stifling defense. On the offensive side of the ball, seven Irish players have combined for a total of 19 hat tricks. On the other side, the Irish defense is anchored by senior goalie Scott Rodgers, who leads the nation with a 6.26 goals against aver­age and was recently named a finalist for the Tewaarton Trophy, which is awarded annu­ally to the nation's. top college lacrosse player. 
Despite the potential deep postseason run for Notre Dame, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan insists that his team is focusing solely on Quinnipiac, who Notre Dame plays in the first round of the GWLL tournament and defeated 10-2 on April 18. 

"I think right now we're sim­ply not talking about anything but Quinnipiac on Friday," Corrigan said. "This team has done a great job all year of focusing on the task at hand." 
Although the Irish finished undefeated in their final season of play in the GWLL, there is still a lot at stake for Notre 



Flameout 

TRACK AND FIELD 
ND ready to take on Big East 
ByALEXWEST Sports Writer 
With the season winding down, the Irish men's and women's track teams are cranking up the intensity for the Big East Championship starting this Friday in Philadelphia. 
After a strong showing at the Drake and Hillsdale Relays last weekend, the Irish can focus on one of what Irish coach Joseph Piane called "the two biggest meets of the year." 
"The kids are getting pretty intense this time of year," Piane said. "There's been a change in everyone's demeanor." 
In February, the men's and 
see PlANE/page 22 

ND SOFTBALL 
Squadset for last three games 
Hoyas, Friars await as regular season slate comes to a close 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Only three Big East match-ups stand between Notre Dame and the upcoming conference tourna­ment. The Irish will take on both Providence -in a doubleheader -and Georgetown tllis weekend with hopes of improving their conference record before the tournament. 
"Playing any Big East team helps prepare us for the tourna­ment, because we know they will bring their best game against us," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. 
Gumpf said she is hoping for a strong offensive performance from her team this weekend. 
Irish senior pitcher Christine Farrell slides into third during see GUMPF/page 25 Notre Dame's 8-1 win over Western Michigan on March 25. 

Dame in the tournament. Despite their strong record, Notre Dame's seeding for the national tournament remains somewhat of a mystery. Many analysts believe that Notre Dame's strength of schedule could harm the Irish when the selection committee announces the 16-team NCAA Tournament Field next week. 
see GWLL/page 25 

ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Team preps for NCAA tune-up vs. Cornell 
Newly-crowned conference champs ready for challenge 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to keep their momentum and a three­game win streak alive when they take on Cornell Saturday in Ithaca, N.Y. 
"It's going to be very tough," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "They're a very good opponent. They're going to come out on fire and we need to make sure that we don't come out in ... still celebrating the conference championship instead of com­ing out and being ready to play." 
The No. 11/6 Irish (14-4, 5-2 Rig East) are coming off of a 12-10 victory over Georgetown, which won the Big East Championship and earned the team an automatic bid to the NCAA Championships, which start May 10. The 16-team tournament will pit eight teams, including the Irish, who earned bids from winning their confer­ence tournaments along with eight other at-large bids. 
"Instead of sitting around for two weeks waiting for our first playoff game, we're playing a game to stay fresh and sharp for the NCAA tournament," Coyne said. 
No. 20/19 Cornell (9-6, 3-4 Ivy League) fell in its last game against conference opponent Harvard, dropping to fourth place in the Ivy League. 
Coyne said that the defensive play for the Irish was a key throughout the Big East tourna­
see BIG RED/page 24 



Wednesday, April 29, 2009 

-~ 


CONTRO RSIAIJ 
COMMENCEMENT 
STORY BY JENN METZ 

T 
he words are carved in stone above the east doors of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart: "God, Country, Notre Dame." What they mean for the University indicate what is at the heart of the controversy surrounding the 2009 Commencement. 
The announcement that President Barack Obama would deliver the address and receive and honorary degree, continuing in a long tradition of presidential invitations, has brought the debate over Notre Dame's Catholic identity to a new height, perhaps unlike any other moment in its storied past. 
Since the University and the White House domestically and internationally, the pro-life announced Obama's commencement sched­movement has responded with renewed ule March' 20, Notre Dame, thrust into a energy. national spotlight, has felt only the beginning Obama will arrive in South Bend as groups repercussions. of students, alumni and the American 
University President Fr. John Jenkins has Catholic community question Jenkins' deci­commended the country's first black presi­sion to confer an honorary Doctor of Laws dent on his inspiring leadership during trou­degree upon a politician who does not agree bled times and said honoring Obama with a with the -Church's stance on the protection of degree does not condone his pro-choice poli­life. tics. A document issued by U.S. bishops in 2004 
Student groups have mobilized, creating has found its way to the center of the discus­discussion at on-campus events. sion, and its interpretation has set Jenkins at 
National activists have camped out in South odds with nearly 50 bishops, including the Bend, garnering support from some and leader of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese. angering others. Conversations about the growing tension 
Local Bishop John D'Arcy will not be between the University's desire to remain a attending the ceremony. prestigious institution of higher learning 
Mary Ann Glendon became the first desig­while staying true to its Catholic mission will nated Laetare Medal recipient to accept, and not end May 17. then decline the prestigious award in its 133-The Observer examines Commencement year history. 2009 at the University that believes in ''God, 
As the nation's president. who marks 100 Country, Notre Dame" in this special In days in office today, takes pro-choice actions Focus Edition. 
I N S I D E T H I S S P E C I A L A look back at presidential speakers • The response in review IN FOCUS EDITION ASU degree controversy • Obama's 2008 speech at Wesleyan 
---------~----------------------------------------~----------------~ 
Student reaction mixed; groups take action 
ND Response holds rally, March for Life on campus; Progressive Leadership Council meets with Jenkins to offer support 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
In Focus Writer 
Since the University announced President Barack Obama will deliver the 2009 Commencement address on March 20, the out­pouring of student response ­both critical and supportive ­has been steady and passionate. 
The Observer reported having received 282 Letters to the Editor penned by students -73 percent in support of the decision to host Obama and 27 against -in a March 27 editorial. 
A recent count by The Observer shows 345 Letters to the Editor authored by student-, with 7 4 per­cent in favor of the invitation and 29 against as of April 23. 
As Letters to the Editor from individual students poured in, two student groups sprung up to· for­mally lead student response: ND Response, which is critical of the University's invitation to Obama, and the Progressive Leadership Council, formed from student groups on campus in support of the decision. 
Junior Mary Daly, a leader of ND Response, said the aim of the coalition is to "keep the dialogue going," and she said she believes the group has been successful in the past month. 
"Our goal wasn't to get the invi­tation rescinded," Daly said. "Yeah, maybe that's the ideal, but our goal was more to create the dialogue, to challenge people to really think about the issue or issues surrounding the invitation to president Obama." 
In the weeks following the University's announcement, ND Response held a prayer rally in front of the Main Building and the first March for Life on Notre Dame's campus. 
The group also started a Web site, NDresponse.com, to continu­ally update supporters of the coalition, Daly said. 
"We kept the conversation alive," she said. "I think that is successful. We got people to think about what's going on on our campus and how our campus affects the broader society." 
Sophomore Khai Thomas, incoming president of the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC), helped organize the Progressive Leadership Council to combat criticism of University President Fr. John Jenkins' invitation to Obama, but he also cited dialogue as a key aim of the group. 
"At Notre Dame, we create dia­logue," he said. "This issue has created dialogue." 
Henry Vasquez, president of the Notre Dame College Democrats and a leader of the Council, said the group seeks to show support for the University without politi­cizing the Commencement cere­mony. 
"The whole point is to stress that this is not a political issue," Vasquez said. "This is about being American citizens and supporting our president and the pluralistic nature of our country." 
Thomas helped organize a peti­tion, which gathered about 1,150 signatures, for students to show support of Obama as Commencement speaker, and he met with Jenkins along with 14 other students as a gesture of support. 
"The goal was to present [Jenkins] with the fact that there are people on campus, groups and coalitions that are in a(..rree­ment with him," he said. 'This is a historical moment on campus." 

Prior to meeting with the Progressive Leadership Council, Jenkins extended an invitation to meet with ND Response, but he rescinded the invitation after the group made requests in reply, according to an April 17 Observer report. 
The Observer reported that Jenkins withdrew the invitation because the requests were inter­preted as a "set of demands as a precondition to the meeting," but Daly told The Observer the requesl'i were misinterpreted. 
With less than a month until the Commencement ceremony, both ND Response and the Progressive Leadership Council continue to make plans. 

"We are hoping to have some event during Commencement weekend," Daly said. "We're just trying to keep the dialogue going. We're trying to get awareness on the issue of what it means to be a Catholic university." 
The coalition is in the "process of securing official approval" to stage a demonstration on campus on the day of Commencement, according to the ND Response Web site. 
Vasquez said he and several other student leaders of the Progressive Leadership Council organized a group to meet Obama at the South Bend Regional Airport when the president arrives on May 17. 
"There wilJ be a group of volun­teers made up of some students, but mostly adults from the com­munity at the airport to greet and welcome the president when the plane lands," he said. "And then they will go and do three hours of service." 
As the groups continue to lead student response on both sides of the controversy, leaders from both NO Response and the Progressive Leadership Council said the ulti­mate aim of the diaJogue is that it be constructive. 
"All of our goals were positive goals and constructive goals," Daly said. "Not negative or destructive." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuddey@nd.edu 


Internet plays vital role in generating discussion, debate 
Newman Society, this Web site is published on the Web site have all StopObamaNotreDame.com Society, the site includes informa­By AARON STEINER host to the largest of the petitions been picked up by local and The online homebase of anti­tion about bus transport coordina­In Focus Writer opposing the decision, having national media. The group is also abortion activist Randall Terry's tion from Chicago and Detroit to 
gathered over a quarter of a mil­using the site to count rosaries protest campaign. this Web site Notre Dame on May 17 for inter­
Electronic petitions, mass e-mail lion signatures. The Cardinal prayed in a campaign for "the features everything the amateur ested protestors. campaigns, facebook groups, Newman Society also has a va'it e­conversion of Barack Obama" and protestor needs to stage a success­YouTube, blogs -these are some mail database, which has been promote their evenl'i. ful event Directions on how to get Facebook.com of the primary mediums that have used to collect signatures. A the best media coverage, printable The social networking tool has helped generate an eruption of recent e-mail from the group WeSupportNotreDame.org posters, contact information for also played a role, with several controversy around the read: "Notre Dame still has not The primary Web site dedicated University Trustees and multitude groups, both for and against the University's decision to invite yielded, and we need more to supporting the University's deci­of YouTube videos featuring Terry decision, forming shortly after the President Barack Obama to the Catholics to stand up and be sion, it hosts a petition that has are all available at the site. announcement was made. "We University's May 17 counted." gathered over 30,000 electronic Will Be Honored to Have President Commencement ceremony. signatures. The site was started by NotreDameProtest.com Obama at Notre Dame" claims 
Here's a look at some of the Web NDResponse.com Catholics United, whose executive That's the address that will be over 7,500 members, while sites that have played a vital role This site is the only student-run director, Chris Korzen said: "We pla.<;;tered on two billboards on the "Protest Obama a'i Notre Dame's in furthering the debate over the response Web site. It has func­felt, given the media attention, Indiana Toll Road sometime 2009 Commencement Speaker" Obama invitation: tioned as the primary means for that we needed to send a strong before Commencement, ifthe sup­has some 5,000 members. 
the 11-group student coalition to message that many Catholics and porters of this Web site have their NotreDameScandal.com communicate with supporters and many Americans support way. Started by the Pro-life Action Contact Aaron Steiner at Launched by the Cardinal the press. The five press releases lJenkins'l decision." League and Citizens for a Pro-life asteiner@nd.edu 
The Observer 2 April 29, 2009 


Obama invitation puts national spotlight on ND 
Bishops, alumni, Catholic groups voice opinions; professors say University a 'center' of American Catholicism 
By AARON STEINER 
In Focus Writer 
Within hours of the May 20 announcement that President Barack Obama would speak at Notre Dame and receive an hon­orary degree at the May 17 Commencement ceremony, the Cardinal Newman Society launched what they termed a "national Catholic campaign" to protest the invitation, launching a Web site, NotreDameScandal.com, and petition. 
At the time, some observers were surprised that a group would go to such lengths as to create a Web site in protest. 
Last week, when a sixth Web site protesting the decision was launched, it was old news. 
The invitation University President Fr. John Jenkins extend­ed to Obama quickly provoked a response from around the country, one that has not died down in the past five weeks, and isn't likely to do so in days until Commencement, either. 
A<> of press time, nearly 50 U.S. bishops have made some type of comment about the decision, Fox News has interviewed Notre Dame students on live television twice, numerous Facebook groups have been formed, protests have been held at offices or homes of several Notre Dame Trustees, the White House has made note of the con­troversy at least three times, countless Notre Dame alumni have contacted the University and pro-life groups have launched sev­eral separate protest campaigns. 
The controversy has even extended beyond the nation's bor-ders -ND Response, a student group opposing the decision, earli­er reported receiving messages from Europe, Asia and Africa. 

One thing is certain: come May 17, the spotlight on Notre Dame will be intense. 
Why the big fuss? 
University professors say Notre Dame's role in American Catholicism is a primary factor in the response. Professor Gary Anderson, of the theology depart­ment, called Notre Dame the "symbolic center" of Catholicism in the U.S. 
"Whether we like it or not, this is the spot where many Americans take their reading of the state of the Catholic Church," Anderson said. 
Rick Garnett, professor of law, said Notre Dame "is the most important Catholic university in the country, and so what happens here is often important ... for the Church." 
"It is not surprising that the invi­tation, and the reaction to it, has drawn so much attention," he said. Garnett cited two reasons. 
"First, Catholics, like Americans generally, were closely divided during the last election," he said. "Next, the Catholic Church is the most prominent and consistent advocate for the human dignity and rights of unborn children, and President Obama's positions and views are, in some instances, inconsistent with those rights." 
That inconsistency has led to a large response, he said. Professor of political science Daniel Philpott said the debate shows how many Catholics feel about abortion. 

"What the controversy at Notre Dame has revealed is that American Catholics, at least a good swath of them, still care a great deal about the right to life," he said. 
While some argue the contro­versy should be non-political in nature, politics has taken a role in many arguments against the invi­tation. 
A majority of Catholics support­ed Obama last November in the general election, giving him 54 percent of the Catholic vote, how­ever pro-life Catholics who oppose the University's decision cite Obama's recent actions in office ­including overturning the Mexico City Policy and rescinding limits President George W. Bush put in place on funding new embryonic stem cell research -in their rea­soning for protests. 
"A lot of [Catholics] held their noses when they voted for Obama. Thi'i controversy, and what he has done since taking office, has brought those concerns to the fore," Appleby told the National Post in an April 6 article. "His decision on life issues and the way he has communicated them have been deeply dissatisfying to Catholics who voted for him." 
Philpott agreed. 
"There was much talk after the last election about how the Catholic vote had been neutral­ized, how the life issue had been deferred, diverted, diffuse and diluted. But this was illusory," he said, noting the response to Obama's political actions and now the University's decision as evi­dence. 
The recent reaction to the Obama invitation -seen both here in South Bend and in print, online and broadcast media -has been loudly heard. 
In addition to Cardinal Newman Society's online petition, the Pro­Life Action League, a Chicago­based organization, released a statement the same day as the announcement, asking Jenkins to withdraw the invitation. 
Randall Terry, one of the more prominent activists to join the protest, moved to the area May 27 to start an on-the-ground cam­paign in South Bend. 
In the weeks following the announcement, bishops from around the country voiced their opinions. Local Bishop John D'Arcy, whose diocese includes Notre Dame, released a statement 
see REACTION/page 6 



BY THE NUMBERS 177 

No. of alumni Letters 

PEOPLE, PRAYERS, PETITIONS No. of Letters to the Editor 
to the Editor in support of A LOOK AT THE RESPONSE THE 0BAMA DECISION HAS GENERATED The 0 bserver has received 
the invitation as of April 23 from alumni and students 
97 
regarding the invitation 
1,000,000 
No. ofrosaries ND Response is praying Jor as of April 23 
No. of student

conversion ofheartfor President Obama' 
Letters to the

15 
3N_(). of stateme?,t.s lc~cal 
Editor critical

No. of student leaders Bt::-hop John DArcy of the invitation 
who met with Jenkins in has rnad(' regarding the 
f •. • l.. 

support of his invitation as of April 23 invitation
49
to Obama 
No. of bishops who have 
11 
No. of signatures on NotreDameScandal.com 
publicly opposed the
petition as of April 28 
decision as of April 28372 No. of student groups 6No. of prior presidential 
No. of alumni 
Commencement speakers at Notre Dame 
Letters to the 
in the ND Response coalition 2 
Editor critkal No. of billboards
8

of the invitation NotreDameProtest.com
as of April 23 No. of prior presidential honorary degrees from Notre Dame plans to place on


400 1,150
23 
No. of people, approximated, 7 Indiana toll road who attended first N D Response No. of signatures No. offull time volunteers event, the Palm Sunday prayer rally Randall Terry has recruited in South Bend
on BCAC petition 

No. of student groups in support of decision 
34,573
who signed a letter in 
No. of stgnatures on
No. of student Letters to the Editor support of the decision WeSupportNotreDame.org
in support of the invitation as of April 23 

petition as of April 28 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 3 April 29, 2009 


·~~~ 
VOl.-)()(IV ftC), 12tf 
Bush will . .. speak:at ­graduation 
By MONICA VAKr • • 
EdilaJ~ 


THEOB 
CONTRO~ 
A number of prominent politicians have spoken or received honors at Notre Dame in the 
ByJENN METZ In Focus Writer 
Roosevelt. Eisenhower_ Kennedy. Ford. Carter. Reagan. Bush. Bush. 
President Barack Obama will be the ninth United States president to receive an honorary degree from Notre Dame. 
The University has long-invited stand­ing presidents to speak at Commencement, and has honored oth­ers at special convocations. Notre Dame podiums have provided the launch pad for major policy addresses from some and have amplified perhaps two of the most famous commencement addresses ever delivered. 
While the controversy surrounding honoring Obama at a Catholic university has created an uproar in recent weeks, it must be put in perspective. 
Obama is not the first pro-choice politi­cian to receive an award from or speak at the University. 
The visits of two politicians -then­New York Governor and Catholic Mario Cuomo, who delivered a speech in defense of his I iberal politics and pro­choice stance, and then-Sen. Daniel Moynihan (D-N.Y.), who received the 1992 Laetare Medal -mark key points in the University's history where its iden­tity as a Catholic institution was called into question. 
Students, alumni and the national Catholic community made their way into the Viewpoint section then as they have today, always continuing the discussion of what it means to be a university that is Catholic in a secular world. 
A tour of past presidential and other controversial political visits in Notre Dame's history is presented, in order to help examing the circumstances the of Obama's pending visit. 
Dwight Eisenhower, 1960 
The first United States president to deliver a University Commencement address spoke for 20 minutes on June 5, 1960 to the Notre Dame graduating class. 
President Dwight Eisenhower inter­rupted his 45th U.S. Military Academy class reunion to make the trip to South Bend. 
His speech looked forward to a gov­ernment on the brink of both social and political change set with the task ofstrik­ing the right balance. 
"We do not want governmental pro­grams which, advanced, often falsely. in the guise of promoting the general wel­fare destroy in the individual those price­less qualities of self-dependence, self­confidence, and a readiness to risk his judgment against the trends of the crowd," Eisenhower said. "We do not want a government that assures the security and general welfare of the nation and its people in concord with the philosophy of Abraham Lincoln, who insisted that government should do, and do only, the things which people cannot do for themselves." 

John F. Kennedy, 1950, 1961 

The nation's only Catholic president delivered the winter Commencement address and received an honorary degree from the University as a U.S. Congressman in 1950. 
He received the Laetare Medal ­Notre Dame's highest honor -in a White House ceremony in 1961. 
Kennedy's grandfather, John F. Fitzgerald, and father. Joseph P. Kennedy, also served as University Commencement speakers in 1915 and 1941, respectively. His brother-in-law, former Peace Corps Director R. Sargent Shriver, spoke to the class of 1961. 
Jimmy Carter, 1977 

"I want to speak to you today about the strands that connect our actions overseas 'With our essential character as a nation. I believe we can have a foreign policy that is democratic, that is based on fundamental values, and that uses power and influence, which we have for humane purposes. We can also have a foreign policy that the American people both support and, for a change, know about and understand." 
President Jimmy Carter, in what many regard as the key foreign policy address of his presidency, spoke the words above during the 1977 Notre Dame Commencement exercises. 
His appearance was announced in a March 1, 1977 Observer report that said Carter accepted the invitation then­University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh issued Feb. 8, 1977. It was Carter's third trip to Notre Dame. 
Carter's coming to the University, according to The Observer's annual com­pilation of the top-ten stories of the year published in the May 4, 1977 edition, was at first well-received by seniors. 
The only noticeable complaint: the lack of extra ticket<; for the ceremony. 
"The seniors' and University eommuni­ty's initial pleasure at having the President of the United States speak at their graduation exercises was changed to displeasure when they learned that each senior will receive only five tickets for the exercises," the report said. 
A petition delivered to Ilesburgh with 850 signatures suggested moving the ceremony to the Notre Dame Stadium to accommodate more guests. 
Carter spoke on May 22, 1977 of the diminishing threat from the Soviet Union and promoted the creation of new global alliances, championed human rights ­policies based on the "new reality of a politically awakening world." 
He also celebrated Hesburgh's 25th anniversary as University President dur­ing the visit. 
"[Fr.] Ilesburgh has spoken more con­sistently and more effectively in the sup­port of the rights of human beings than any other person I know," Carter said. 
Ronald Reagan, 1981 
The Gipper, the president. 
In his first public appearance after a March 1981 assassination attempt, President Ronald Reagan, associated with the Irish after playing one of their football legends in the film "Knute Rockne. All-American," immortalizing 
the  phrase "Let's win  one  for  the  
Gipper,"  spoke  at  the  1981  
Commencement.·  

Reagan vowed to win one for the pri­vate sector in his Commencement speech, calling for a smaller national government. 
Reagan was invited to Commencement by then-University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh to deliver the princi­pal address and receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. His "Rockne" co­star, Pat O'Brien, also received an hon­orary degree. 
After the initial announcement March 10, 1981, columnists in The Observer, like Anthony Walton in a March 11, 1981 article, criticized Hesburgh for the invi­tation, not being able to reconcile how Notre Dame -"the university with a conscience" -could invite Reagan, who pushed for a peace-time military accel­eration in El Salvador, opposed strong gun-control laws and endorsed capital punishment. 
It wasn't until April 27, 1981 -just around Reagan's 1OOth day in office ­that the real controversy over his selec­tion became apparent. Indications that the president, after recovering from a gunshot wound to the chest, would still be coming to campus to deliver the Commencement address, dismayed some student.;;. Though, according to an Observer column that day, at that time the appearance was not confirmed by the University or the White House. Yet the president's speechwriters were already at work. 
The next day, The Observer reported on an ad hoc committee formed in response to the scheduled appearance ­Students Concerned about Commencement (SCC) -that planned to gather April 29, 1981 in a protest rally. The Letters to the Editor fell under the title "Reagan dialogue is renewed" and examined both sides of the debate. 
"We feel that Reagan's presence is in one sense an honor, but more a chal­lenge to Notre Dame," Will O'Brien, a member of the sec said in the report. "In our perception, Reagan's appearance 
Gl\ 
The Observer 4 April 29, 2009 


Moynihan to. prestigio~s h 


s,.nalvr llani.-1 Patrick 
.COJJl.rnenc;;..y Carter Will • if I! lSiXe,~ II \fn~nih•n UJ.....Y.I hu be•m ,.,. ara.-~hht> Uni\'"rtll)' nr !'totrt! Dam..·• 199<1 La,.l.ar" M~tdal, 
an ent glv~ Indiana p. ~lse$ 
said in the speech at Notre Dame. Commencement: took the same course Commencement May 17, about what In a Sept. 13, 1984 Viewpoint, guest of action in 1992, saying in a May 15 President Barack Obama's presence on columnist Chris Julka, claimed: "Cuomo report his presence there "could be campus will mean for the debate over 
r;--·
leaves Catholicism in the pew." interpreted as an approval of Notre Dame's identity as an American, Last month, in a March 30 New York [Moynihan'sJ position relative to the Catholic university. •: ...·..,-...,. Times post on itc; "The Lede" news blog, issue of pre-born life." p ·.,. 
4 

Cuomo was interviewed, putting 
Bush spoke to Notre Dame graduates Madeline Buckley contributed lO this ttl:. ·.. ·"···..·"'.. ·,•-.J...
President Barack Obama's situation in about family values and community report. . ,,. • • ., 2009 in comparison with his in 1984. service during the Sesquicentennial Year . . ' ....... · -, The main difference: Obama is not Commencement exercises. Contact Jenn Metz at » • l, Catholic. jmetz@nd.edu 
··•ar \ .. }\t'\:~· 
\ ....

...h n!s a.... »butn111l.Uft•._\h~·,_ould.not 
& aoy(\\.. a ~ ..··· tl",\rcy sald ene,etl\en\ ext~ \ 
..,.,, ~ \end the r.o~n;e Moynib .. 
Ey · bec~u~ .~ 
· Br.'/ 0·a.u\tJ \(.\NN cist.'S . ·uton on u•~ b 
"" •stated po" f .n tb~ wom 
r!d'\ ' n .\i e ' •
NeViS-. 'o . ~ .. -.:~:: ur humn table t.O me. \ Am~r\can .bi~hops totally unacce:.O h&~--&l\:&mi ~t-;verll ' cd opposillOD. t? {f Arcy.-w. rornmence~
I .""ft"'' express ~ -'hn\,.p of l .s. q. ..........p names-..:....... c\nce.· 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 





{ERSY IN PERSPECTIVE 
~ past. A look back at these visits reveals that the 2009 debate is not without precendent. 
at commencement would be incompati­According to the article, Cuomo "said under siege," Bush said in his address. ble with what we sense the University to Notre Dame should honor Obama "Today's crisis will have to be be about." because he is the president and shares addressed by millions of Americans at 
He compared Heagan's appearance to the Catholic mission of wanting to make the personal, individual level for govern­Carter's four years before, saying the the world a better place." mental programs to be effective. And the two presidents' visits to campus point Cuomo said Obama should not avoid federal government, of course, must do out the fact that "Notre Dame is an insti­the controversy surrounding his appear­everything it can do, but the point is, tution of national prestige and influ­ance in his Commencement address, government alone is simply not enough," ence," but said the SCC felt Reagan's suggesting he say something like ''I'm he said. actions opposed the value placed on not asking you to agree with me. Thank social justice in Catholic moral teaching. you for giving me this opportunity to tell George W. Bush, 2001 
The rally drew a etowd of 800, accord­you about the values I believe in and talk After Notre Dame alumni, including ing to an April 30, 1981 Observer report. about how much common ground we then-National Security Advisor Those in attendance appeared to be share" in his interview with the Times. Condoleeza Rice, recruited President equally split -half protesters wearing George W. Bush to address the class of white arm bands in protest and the George H.W. Bush and Daniel 2001 at Commencement. Another con­other half counter-demonstrators, wear­Moynihan, 1992 troversy erupted, again expressing the ing pictures of the presidents and hold­The announcements were made in the concern the University was neglecting its ing signs with slogans like, "Don't give March 30, 1992 edition of The Observer: Catholic values and traditions with the the Gipp no lip." both President George H.W. Bush and invitation. 
Reagan addressed nearly 2,000 stu­then-Sen. Daniel Moynihan (D-N .Y.) The Republican president, who dents at the 136th Commencement May would be featured at the 147th annual received an honorary Doctor of Laws 17, 1981, speaking of the growing need Commencement. degree from Notre Dame, was protestBd for a stronger national defense and pre­Students had mixed reactions to the against because his stance on capital dicting, "the West will not contain Bush announcement, according to a punishment, labor, the environment and Communism, it will transcend March 31, 1992 Observer report, the military were seen in contrary to Communism. because he would be speaking as both Catholic moral teaching. 
"We'll dismiss it as a sad, bizarre president and presidential candidate and A petition, signed by a group of faculty, chapter in human history whose last his speech had the potential to be politi­students and alumni led by then-faculty pages are even now being written," he cized. Many questioned, as then-govern­member Peter Walshe, gathered 667 sig­said. ment professor David Leege did, "the . natures and Walshe organized a two­
propriety an invitation during a cam­part demonstration to protest Bush's Mario Cuomo, 1984 paign year," as it might eo me across as appearance as Commencement. 
In a speech delivered Sept. 13, 1984 endorsing the president for reelection. Walshe, the author of the petition, said titled "Religious Belief' and Public Others called Bush's acceptance an in a May 18, 2001 report the "petition Morality: A Catholic Governor's honor for the student body and the objects to a range of policies being pur­Perspective," then-Governor of New University. sued by President Bush. But it let's the York Mario Cuomo said the subject he That week, Viewpoint filled with president off too lightly." was asked to speak on was "difficult." Letters to the Editor for and against In his speech, Bush reported on the 
"Must politics and religion in America Bush's appearance at Commencement, United States' commitment to the poor divide our loyalties?" he asked. "Does but the outcry seemed tame compared and said Notre Dame, as a Catholic uni­the 'separation between church and to the opposition sparked by the versity, "carries forward a great tradi­state' imply separation between religion announcement Moynihan would be tion of social teaching. It calls on all of and politics?" awarded the Laetare Medal. us, Catholic and non-Catholic, to honor 
In his speech, Cuomo attempted to "Moynihan's career uniquely com­family, to protect life in all its stages, to clarify the position religion has in public bines intellectual and political acumen," serve and uplift the poor. This university affairs. He responded to criticism by then-University President Fr. Edward is more than a community of scholars, it bishops by defending his stance on abor­"Monk" Malloy said in a March 30 is a community of conscience." tion rights which were made apparent in Observer report. "Hili passion for schol­his keynote address at the 1984 arship has made him sensible of the Barack Obama, 2009 Democratic National Convention. realties of state, sensitive to the cry of Eight years later, another president, 
"The Catholic public official lives the the poor and commendably supportive this time a Democrat, will face a mixed political truth that most Catholics of higher education.'' crowd in the Joyce Center. through mores of American history have National bishops and alumni especially He will receive an honorary degree accepted and insisted on: the truth that reacted negatively to the news because and address the graduates, adding to assure our freedom we must allows of Moynihan's pro-choice voting record another chapter to the University's histo­others the same freedom, even if occa­on abortion. · ry as place where leaders come to speak sionally it produces conduct by them Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John on the issues facing the nation. which we would hold to be sinful," he D'Arcy, who will not attend the 2009 More lines will also be written, after 
nrnary ap October 9 ~earance and 
ri~! students an~ tddress a 
·,. , during the acuJtr 
on ' alllpaion national 
., .,. th 0 ~
.'(. e . ­
'i . second U. -: 
... \ ver Notre D .S:-.. ·. address .arne's .\. ·e an hand the '1t D~. onorary'd Ju Jght D
,,otrc D .. n 
60~ amc 
tJ
:tnd Pre · 
•' SJ.. 
B.
f):cvclt and 
~ .h£?no,.iry 
tnJe con... 
~d 1975
, 
..~ '• 

li.i.llc 
\ 
\ 
The Observer 5 April 29, 2009 


Obama spoke on service to Wesleyan grads 
organizer or do something crazy like run for president." 
Service is important not only for the individual, but also for the collective well being of the nation, according to Obama. 
"The future of this country ­your future, my future, my chil­dren's future -depends on it," he said. 
He cited the Foreign Service, the Peace Corps, the energy cri­sis, education and the lingering effects of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans as areas in which graduates could put their skills to use for the betterment of America. 
"We need you," Obama said. 
Obama stressed that the change will not happen overnight and that it will not be easy. 
"You'll experience the occasion­al frustrations and the occasional failures," he said. "Even your successes will be marked by imperfections and unintended consequences." 
However, Obama claimed that hoping and working for change will not prove fruitless. 
"There is nothing naive about your impulse to change the world," he said. "Because all it takes is one act of service -one blow against injustice -to send forth what Robert Kennedy called that tiny ripple ofhope." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

By JOHN TIERNEY In Focus Writer 
President Barack Obama won't be delivering his first commence­ment address when he speaks at Notre Dame on May 17. 
Obama gave the principal -t.ddress at Wesleyan University's commencement ceremony last year, filling in for Sen. Edward 
However, "the history of our nation tells us" that people don't see the big challenges as part of a "destiny to be shaped by forces beyond our control." Obama said. 
"We are a people whose destiny has never been written for us, but by us," Obama said. 
Obama told the graduates to pursue a life of service because "you have an obligation to your­
self." 
He related the 

Kennedy.  ..Through service. I  call to service to  
In the speech,  2008 then­ found a community  the Christian idea of salvation.  
presidential can­ that embraced me.  "Our individual  
didate  Obama  citizenship that was  salvation depends  
called on the graduates to "shape the destiny  meaningful. the direction that rd  on collective salva­tion," Obama said. Obama spoke to  
of this generation"  been seeking. ••  the graduates as  
through service.  someone  whose  
This service is "how we will keep  Barack Obama  life had been shaped by an  
so much needed  United States President  experience of serv­ 
work going, and  ice during his time  
the cause of jus­ as  a  community  

tice everlasting, and the dream organizer in the South Side of alive for generations to come," Chicago. Obama said. "Through service, I found a 
Obama called on the graduates community that embraced me, to make America's future their citizenship that was meaningful, future and to take on the coun­the direction that I'd been seek­try's problems as their own. He ing," Obama said. said that it is easy for an individ­However, Obama's speech was ual to separate his or her person­decidedly a product of the cam­al life from "big challenges like paign trail. He twice mentioned war and recession; hunger and what he would do as president, climate change; injustice and and referenced his campaign inequality." three times. 

ASU, G-Town also embroiled in controversy over awards 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY In Focus Writer 
Controversy about commence­ment, honorary degrees and award'i is not limited to the debate at Notre Dame. 
The White House and Arizona State University (ASU) announced March 20 that President Barack Obama will deliver the school's 2009 Commencement address in Tempe, Ariz., but the university 
..It has always been 
declined to award ment. "The the president an our intention to President Barack honorary degree Obama Scholars
recognize and honor 
-a traditional program will be a
President Obama ·s
gesture for gradu­legacy that will ation speakers. accomplishments endure and inspire A university others for genera­
during his visit. ·· 
spokesperson said tions to come." the school general­Crow said in the 
Sharon Keeler 
ly awards hon­statement that he orary degrees to ASU spokeswoman hopes the criticism best-means of honoring his tremendous service to our coun­try." 
Crow said the scholarship will give students with the "greatest financial need" the opportunity to attendASU. 
"Naming this scholarship pro­gram after President Obama that will affect the lives of thousands of students is an honor befitting, not only the president's exceptional achievements, but also his values as an individual," he said in the state­
people who have held their positions for a long time, according to an A'iSociated Press report. 
"[President Obama's] body of work is yet to come," said Sharon Keeler, the spokeswoman. "That's why we're not recognizing him with a degree at the beginning of his presidency." 
After weathering criticism for withholding the honorary degree, ASU president Michael Crow apol­ogized for the "confusion" sur­rounding the invitation to Obama, and he said in a statement that the school will name a scholarship program in the president's honor. 
"It has always been our intention to recognize and honor President Obama's accomplishments during his visit," he said. "But we had not yet determined the best or most appropriate way to do so. Although the focus and attention of the media and others ha'i been on an honorary degree, we never felt that was the only -or even the 
surrounding the 

controversy will not detract from the excitement of the event. 
"The entire ASU community has been electrified with excitement since we learned of hi'i participa­tion in our commencement cere­mony," Crow said. "We hope that the recent discussion of honorary degrees will not detract from the honor and thrill that ASU -and indeed all of Arizona -i'i experi­encing in anticipation of his visit. I am honored, as are our faculty, staff and students, that President Obama will give his first com­mencement speech a'i President of the United States at ASU." 
A speech delivered by Obama at Georgetown University April 14 made headlines after the White House asked the university to cover up a monogram with the let­ters "IHS," a symbol of the name of Jesus, in the hall where the presi­dent spoke on the economy, according to a CNSnews report. 
Obama spoke specifically about service at the grassroots level. He cited working to better education and to end poverty as examples of how people could serve America. 
"At a time of war, we need you to work for peace," Obama said. "At a tin1e of inequality, we need you to work for opportunity. At a time of so much cynicism and so much doubt, we need you to make us believe again." 
Obama said that his life of serv­ice began during his first two years of college, when he said 
Several religious groups criti­cized thi'i request. but a university spokesperson told CNSnews the school covered the sign to coordi­nate the "logistical arrangemenlo;;" of the event. 
"The White House wanted a sim­ple backdrop of flags and pipe and drape for the speech, consistent with what they've done for other policy speeches," the spokesperson said. 
Georgetown University was also met with critici'im after giving Vice President Joe Biden the Legal Momentum Award April 22. 
The award recognizes Biden for his work creating the Violence Against Women Act, which has "improved the lives of countless women and brought domestic vio­lence out of the shadows," accord­ing to a statement relea'ied by the university. 
Several pro-life and religious groups claim the award bestowed by the Jesuit university violates the a statement released by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB), "Catholics in Political Life," that states "Catholic institution.'> should not honor those who act in defiance of our funda­mental moral principles. They should not be given awards, hon­ors or platforms which would sug­gest support for their actions." 
The Georgetown Law Center hosts conferences to provide a "free exchange of ideas," but the statement said the school does not necessarily endorse the ideas. 
"Georgetown is proud of its Catholic and Jesuit identity and its core values of respect for and serv­ice to others," the statement said. "While students and faculty may invite speakers and host events, the views of the speakers are not endorsed by nor do they necessari­ly retlect the views of Georgetown." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
The Observer 6 April 29, 2009 

that he "began to notice a world beyond" himself. Obama said that service helped him to find his own identity. 
"Through service, I discovered how my own improbable story fit into the larger story of America," he said. 
Obama stressed the different paths of service that graduates could pursue. 
"There are so many ways to serve and so much that needs to be done at this defining moment in our history," he said. "You don't need to be a community 

Reaction 
continued from page 3 
around the country voiced their opinions. Local Bishop John D'Arcy, whose diocese includes Notre Dame, released a state­ment March 29 stating that he would not attend the ceremony. 
Alumni from around the country have also weighed in, writing to Jenkins and The Observer, and commenting in the national media. 
Those in support of Notre Dame's decision have sprung into action as well, albeit later and perhaps more quietly than their counterparts. 
Earlier this month, Catholics United, an online non-profit organization, launched a peti­tion and Web site -wesup­portnotredame.org -in sup­port of the University's decision and to help combat petitions like the one started by the Cardinal Newman Society, according to Chris Korzen, executive director of Catholics United. 
More recently, the American Association of University Presidents added its voice to the discussion, saying that the group "applauds Notre Dame president Rev. John Jenkins for standing firm on the universi­ty's decision to invite President Obama" in an April 23 state­ment. 
Still, protestors say they plan to continue to make their opin­ions known -a sign that the controversy isn't dying down yet. 
Terry and his supporters, aceording to his Web site, plans to hold daily protests at the University's Main gates, at the intersection of Notre Dame Ave. 
and Angela Blvd. 
A recently organized cam­paign, notredameprotest.com, is organizing bus transporta­tion for protesters coming to campus on May 17 from Chicago and Detroit. 
And Monday, trucks with anti-abortion billboards attached -including graphic images -appeared in South Bend, and the Center for Bio­Ethical Reform, a California­based group, says they'll stay until Commencement. 
The back-and-forth between the supporters and opponents of this decision continues to stir create a firestorm of discus­sion, as the debate over the invitation rages on. 
But the heated arguments may not be for naught, Appleby said, depending on how Commencement weekend turns out. 
"If [Commencement] repre­sents the beginning of a serious and sustained debate and dis­cussion of the issues upon which Catholics disagree with the president, then the Commencement controversy may well have been worth the anguish suffered by many who love Notre Dame, both those who did and those who did not support the invitation," Appleby said. 
Professor Alfred Freddoso of the philosophy department, however, painted a bleaker pic­ture about the future of Notre Dame and its standing with the Church. 
"The Church can survive and flourish without Notre Dame; it's really up to Notre Dame to decide whether it wants to be part of the Church," he said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Follow The Observer 
at ndsmcobserver.com 
over Commencement 
weekend for updates. 


p 

Jenkins responds 
"We will honor Mr. Obama as an inspiring leader who faces many challenges -the economy, two wars, and health care, immigration and education reform -and is addressing them with intelligence, courage and honesty. ... Of course, this does not mean we support all of his positions. The invitation to President Obama to be our Commencement speaker should not be taken as condon­ing or endorsing his positions on specific issues regard­ing the protection of human life, including abortion and embryonic stem cell research. Yet, we see his visit as a basis for further positive engagement." 
Statement, March 23 
Pundits, religious groups, lay people, alumni, politicians, students -there's no shortage of opinion about the decision to invite President Barack Obama to speak at the May 17 Commencement and receive an honorary degree. Below is a sampling of viewpoints that have appeared in The Observer and around the national media in the past weeks. 


D'Arcy speaks out 
''This will be the 25th Notre Dame graduation during my time as bishop. After much prayer, I have decided not to attend the graduation. I wish no disrespect to our presi­dent, I pray for him and wish him well. I have always revered the Office of the Presidency. But a bishop must teach the Catholic faith 'in season and out of season,' and he teaches not only by his wordc; -but by his actions. [. ..] Even as I continue to ponder in prayer these events, which many have found shocking, so must Notre Dame. Indeed, as a Catholic university, Notre Dame must ask itself, if by this decision it has chosen prestige over truth." 
Statement, March 29 


Bishops issue statements 
Students make their voices heard 
Bishop Thomas Olmstead, 
Phoenix, Ariz. 
"I am saddened and heavy of heart about your decision to invite President Obama to speak at Notre Dame University (sic) and even to receive an honorary degree. It is a public act of disobedience to the Bishops of the United States. [ ... ] I pray that you come to see the grave mistake ofyour decision." 
E-mail to Jenkins, March 25 
Archbishop John Nlenstedt, 
Twin Cities, Minn. 
"It is a travesty that the University of Notre Dame, consid­ered by many to be a Catholic University, should give its public support to such an anti-Catholic politician. I hope that you are able to reconsider this decision. If not, please do not expect me to support your University in the future." 
Letter to Jenkins, March 26 
Archbishop Emeritus John 
Quinn, San Francisco, Calif. 
"What if the president is forced to back out of his appearance at Notre Dame either because he withdraws or the university with­draws its invitation? If this hap­pens, will that further the pro-life eflort in our country? If the presi­dent is forced to withdraw, will that increase cooperation between the Catholic Church and the Administration, or will it create mounting tensions and deepening hostility? [ ... ] If the president is forced to withdraw, how will that fact be used? Will it be used to link the church with racist and other extremL-;t elemenlc;; in our country? 
1. .. ] Will this action be seen as proof that the bishops of the United States do not sincerely seek dialogue on major poJicy ques­tions, but only acquiescence?" 
"America" Magazine, March 30 
Bishop Robert Lynch, St. 
Petersburg, Fla. 
"[W)hile Notre Dame may have acted way too early and too gener­ously, I am more alarmed that the rhetoric being employed is so uncivil and venomous that it weak­ens the case we place before our fellow citizens, alienates young col­lege-age students who believe the older generation is behaving like an angry child and they do not wish to be any part of that, and ill­serves the cause of life." 
Blog entry, DOSP.org. March 27 
Archbishop Alfred Hughes, New Orleans, La. 
"As Catholics we need to enter into civil debate with [President Oban1a] on the fundamental issues on which we disagree. We work with him on those issues with which we agree. But we do not supply a platform or grant an honor to someone who not only is so wrong on such a fundamental issue but is aggressively pursuing policies which exclude the human 

University alumni weigh in 
Faculty add to discussion 
rights ofthe unborn." 
Letter to Jenkins, April 1 
Bishop Thomas Doran, Rockford, 
Ill. 
"I would ask that you rescind this unfortunate decision and so avoid dishonoring the practicing Catholics of the United States, including those of this Diocese. Failing that, please have the decency to change the name of the University to something like, 'The Fighting Irish College' or 'Northwestern Indiana Humanist University.'" 
Letter to Jenkins, March 31 
Bishop Richard Stika, 
Knoxville, Tenn. 
"It is fine to honor an individual because of his accomplishments, but can one seriously believe that it is in keeping with the teachings of Jesus to honor someone who is so powerful and influential that innocent and pure human life is in danger of death? r...]It seems that the University of Notre Dame has abandoned its Catholic identity in this matter. I feel that it is embar­rassing and shameful." 
Statement, April12 
Bishop Thomas Wenski, 
Orlando, Fla. 
"That Mr. Obama speaks at Notre Dame is not really the issue -he is President of the United States, wherever he goes he brings with him the dignity of his oflice; and, as a politician, he is quick to seize any opportunity for a 'bully pulpit.' That Notre Dame would invite him and would grant him at the same time an honorary degree, however, is the issue; and a very problematic one, for it reveals that Notre Dame [...) has forgotten what it means to be Catholic." 
Statement. April20 
Bishop Victor Gale\>ne, St. 
Augustine, Fla. 
"Coupled with the performance of the quasi pornographic play, 'The Vagina Monologues,' which continues to appear annually on the Notre Dame campus, this most recent decision raises serious doubts about Fr. Jenkins' qualifica­tions for continuing to serve as president of one of the foremost Catholic universities in the nation." 
Letter to Papal Ntmcio, March 21 
Archbishop John J. Myers, Newark, N.J. 
"If the president of Notre Dame University (sic) truly wishes to show that his institution L<i rooted in Catholic teaching and tradition and committed to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, he must underscore this message at commencement plainly and clearly, and invite everyone to embrace an immutable and all-inclusive rever­ence for life." 
Statement, April 1 
Mark Weber, senior 
"It is our responsibility, not our Commencement speaker's, to continue to cultivate our Catholic iden­tity and apply it beyond graduation. The role of a Commencement speaker is to welcome college graduates into the real world, arm them with knowledge of complex and evolving issues and inspire them to be passionate and influential citizens of a global community. I simply cannot think of any­one more qualified to do these things than the leader of the free world, Barack Obama." 
Letter to the Editor, ·:4 pro-life perspective ofthe pro-life protest against Obama, "Afarch 23 
Aaron Sanders, graduate student 
"The direct taking of innocent human life and the prudential fashioning of economic, foreign aid or entitlement policy are incommensurable, yet the University's honoring of President Obama says the exact opposite. And when it comes to the other accomplishments that are the real reason for the honor, I may have missed a part of Obama's as-yet­short presidential career." 
Letter to the Editor, "Confusion," March 24 
Andrew Nesi, senior 
"Graduation is not a time to celebrate the end of our education. It's a day to continue it. That's why we need to embrace the idea that President Obama should be welcome to speak before our graduating class." · 
Observer Column, "Obama, protesters and my graduation, "March 26 
Kelly Kapshandy, senior 
"[ ... ] Notre Dame and the administration suc­cumbed to the celehrification of a man who consLc;;­
Mark Rolfes, alumnus 
"I fear that this issue will tear the Notre Dame community apart, and this Lc; the most important rea..'ion that the invitation was a bad idea. The 'pres­tige' of having a Prf~sident visit Notre Dame is simply not worth the anguish that will be produced." 
Letter to the Editor, "Where do you draw the line?" March 25 
Jacob Baska, alumnus 
"I hope that this will be a moment when Notre Dame will fulfill its twin mission of being both a Catholic university and an elite institution of higher learning." 
Letter to the Editor, 'Welcome Obama, "March 23 
Eoghan McGill, alumnus 
"I have just thrown in the trash four Notre Dame 
Professor Rick GarnettJ law 
"This should not be an occa..'iion for fundraising, grandstanding, or attention-grabbing by self-inter­ested activists. Again, Notre Dame matters, and it is precisely because it still i'i meaningfully Catholic that its mistakes are disappointing. It's easy for [insert name here] Completely Pure Catholic College (or blogger) to avoid dilemmas (and mistakes) like Notre Dame's, because no one cares about that College (or blogger). Notre Dame's challenge is more difficult. We should want, and be willing to help. her to succeed." 
Nationameview. com, 'The Importance ofNotre Dame, "March 23 
Faculty Senate 
"The Faculty Senate affirms that the invitation to deliver the commencement address and to receive 
The Observer 7 April29, 2009 

tently supports many of the beliefS that the Church vehemently opposes and is actually honoring him at this year's Commencement. Not only has Notre Dame lost my respect, but they have also lost my intent to contribute to the University any time in the near future." 
Letter to the Editor, "Money talks, "March 24 
Joe McLeant junior 
"Inviting Obama to speak does not mean that the University supports abortion; rather, it means that the University recognizes that a person's personal beliefs do not invalidate their potential to contribute constructively to academic dialogue." 
Letter to the Editor, "Acknowledgement, not acceptance, "March 24 
Sean Lyttle, third year law 
"Do not turn our special day into a political circus. Now one will say, 'Notre Dame invited President Obama to speak, so the Church must think abortion is okay now.' People are much smarter than that. However, if you choose to hijack our graduation with large-scale protests, people will say, 'How sad. How embarrassing.' It is our day, not yours. Show a little respect." 
Letter to the Editor, "Don't hijack our day," March24 
Kathleen Hession, senior 
"[T]he true 'slap in the face' here is that if this unenlightened debate continues, the Notre Dame Oass of '09 will be remembered for nothing more than protesting a man who has risen to one of the highest, and most honorable, positions our country offers." 
Letter to the Editor, ''The goals ofhigher education," March 25 
T-shirts, a Notre Dame hat, sweatshirt and flag. Needless to say, I will never write another check to the University. I will not associate myself with a uni­
... 
versity that offers an honorary degree to a politician who lauds abortion and, just within the past month, has issued an executive order that forces every American to pay for the murder of the unbom ofthe world. I never thought it possible, but Notre Dame is no longer my university." 
Letter to the Editor, "Disgusted by choice, "March 2S 
Catherine Kelly, alumna 
"Your decision to invite President Obama to speak at Commencement is a slap in the face to Catholics and pro-life supporters who toil endlessly and donate hard-earned money to fight the pro-abortion movement in this country." 
Letter to the Editor, "Risking it all, "March 25 
an honorary degree reflects the University's tradi­tion of honoring our nation's leaders and encourag­ing dialogue with them on issues important to the extended University community and to the nation." 
Statement April22 

Professor Ralph Mcinerny, philosophy 
"Administrators are hugging themselves with delight at this mac;sive publicity coup. The national championship in football has eluded Notre Dame for many years, but when the president dribbles onto the stage at the great event, the hall will erupt in ecstatic applause; the president, Father Jenkins, will wring his hand; and a final nail will be driven into the coffin of a once-great Catholic university." 
NationalReview. com. "A Moral Exemplar?" March 23 

ANDREA ARCHER I The Observer 







