
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Domer doubles 
Eight sets of twins currently enrolled in the Class of 2013; Twin Club formed on campus 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
Notre Dame has a thing for twins. 
The Class of 2013 currently has eight complete sets of twins in their year. When current jun­ior Lillian Civantos was a fresh­man and learned that her class contained six sets of twins, the news came as a shock. 
"I remember [University President] Fr. [John] Jenkins was addressing my freshman class and said that our class had six complete sets," Civantos said. "I just thought that was a lot." 
Civantos is an identical twin. She and her sister Tess, who both work for The Observer, were amazed to learn how many twins attended Notre Dame and believed that there had to be some way for all of the twins in the school to get together. 
"I thought that it would be really great if there was a way for all of us to get to know each other," Civantos said. 
Civantos took her idea and formed the Twin Club of Notre Dame, which has been up and 
see DOUBLES/page 4 



Game day changes a success 
Season opener runs smoothly, fans respond well to additions 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Saturday's season opener proved to be a success on and off the field as fans responded favorably to changes made to improve home football week­ends, Director of Game-Day Operations Mike Seamon said. 
"All early indications are that we had a really successful weekend," Seamon said. "We were very happy with how everything unfolded." 
Friday afternoon marked the first time that the tunnel to the stadium was open to the pub­lic, and over 3,500 people walked through the tunnel for photo opportunities on the field, Seamon said. 
see GAME/page 4 


Students report thefts, attacks near campus 
Observer Staff Report 
As the new school year is now in full swing, South Bend police are seeing an increase in robbery and lar­ceny towards students, according to South Bend Police Capt. Phil Trent. 
"We are seeing an up-tick in robbery and larceny as students walk alone or in twos in the middle of the night, through dimly lighted areas," he said in an e-mail. "We see this every year, just as we see a spike in burgla­ries during Christmas break." 
Two robberies were reported by Notre Dame stu­dents last week, according to a South Bend Tribune report. 
The report said a 19-year­old student told police he was tackled and robbed by two men last Tuesday. One man claimed to have a gun. 
The student, who was walking down Notre Dame Ave. around 10:30 p.m., told police his backpack and wal­let were stolen. The back­pack contained the student's laptop computer. 
Another robbery was reported earlier that week by two female students who were also tackled by two men on Notre Dame Ave. about 1 a.m. Aug. 30, the Tribune report said. 
Trent said students should take precautionary measures when choosing to walk off­campus at night, especially after a few drinks. 
SMC cross country to donate shoes to Uganda 
By ALLISON FRANKLIN 
News Writer 
On Sept. 5, the partici­pants of the second-annual Saint Mary's Alumnae Race crossed a finish line made u~ of old running shoes, but these shoes were much more than just a finish line. 
Instead of charging a race entrance fee, the Saint Mary's cross country team collected old sneakers, which they plan to send to 
those in need in Uganda. 
Uganda is among the world's poorest countries. Approximately half of 32.4 million Ugandans live below the international poverty line, which is a $1.25 per day. 
Saint Mary's cross country coach Jackie Bauters came up with the idea of helping Ugandans after two College nursing students, Caitlin Brodmerkel and Megan 
see X-COUNTRY/page 4 

Ryan Hall residents settle in 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
The women of Ryan Hall are settling into their new home and intend to pick a mascot and colors by mid-October, around the time of the dorm's dedica­tion, hall Rector Breyan Tornifolio said. 
"In two weeks we will elect our first hall council, who will help orchestrate discussions about our mascot and colors," Tornifolio said. 
The women will come up with 
see RYANIpage 3 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER DVD rentals resume at ND page 3 • Clausen and Floyd earn honors page 20 • ZZ Top coming to Morris page 10 • Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
On beauty 
Many inside columns are like women's skirts -long enough to cover the essentials, but short enough to keep you interested. They are often comical, slightly nostalgic, or sometimes self-referential. Cornelius Rogers Past topics have included Batman 
vs. Superman, Scene Writer 
favorite poke-moo and the ugly area in between the mod quad dorms. But I have decided to swim against the stream like the salmon of Capistrano. I have delivered you an inside column that involves a little more intellectual acumen. I am sure that as Notre Dame students and alumni your sharp minds are up to the task. 
'"Beauty is truth, truth beauty,'­that is all I Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know." Many have heard the words uttered by John Keats' Grecian urn, but how many have really stopped to contemplate their meaning? Can all of mankind's existence simply be reduced to this single axiom? 
Nowadays the adjective "beauti­ful" is used to describe anything including films, songs, pets, cars, clothes and of course people. Perhaps the profuse use of the word today has diminished its value, but why do we even feel the need to use the word in the first place? 
Perhaps we use the word because we all are looking for beauty in some way or another. A musician searches for it in her music. An author looks for it in his writing. A wayward Notre Dame student hopes to find it at an SYR. And the scien­tist seeks it out in rational truth. It looks like Keats' urn hit the mark. 
However, this concept of beauty seems entirely subjective. Surely, beauty cannot be just what every­one finds beautiful. Some poor twisted soul may think Crowley Hall is beautiful, but that does not make it so. Is there anything that is uni­versally agreed upon as beautiful? 
What most people find beautiful are things belonging to nature. Mountains, waterfalls, rainbows, flowers, etc. What is so special about these? For us, they are the closest thing to eternity that we will experience on earth. Mountains, valleys and seas have been here long before we were and will endure long after we are gone. Flowers may wither. Leaves may fall down and die, but both will come to life again and again. they are, in a word, everlasting. I like to think these things that are naturally beautiful are God's way of giving us an infinitely small foretaste of the joys of heaven. And what is heaven, but the realm of all truth? 
So I think Keats was onto some­thing when he uttered those "immortal" words. Are beauty and truth all we really need to know? You are more than welcome to agree or disagree with me, but I hope at the very least you think about it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 8, 2009 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOUR RECTION BE IF DINING HALLS BECAME VEGETARIAN? 







Brian Nasca  Danlelle Guidry  Chris Damian  Rebecca Sullivan  Dave Wilkerson  
junior Morrissey  sophomore McGlinn  freshman Dillon  freshman Lyons  senior offcampus  
'Td starve.,,  "I don 't eat a  "Where's my  '1 wouldn't be  "I'd lose 6o  
lot ofmeat  meat?"  ethically opposed,  pounds.,  
anyway so I  but I wouldn't be  
wouldn't be  for it. But as long  
completely  as I have the mint  
opposed.,  and chocolate  
fro-yo, I'm good,  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

winnings even though authorities have been try­ing to deport him. 
Tesfaldet Tesloy, a 28­year-old Eritrean who has lived in the immigrant­friendly Nordic country for six years, won a tax­free prize of 1.2 million Swedish crown (101,654 pounds). 
But Sweden's attempts to deport the man have failed due to his country's refusal to take him back, highlighting a common problem for immigration officials. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
French teens forced to marry when traveling 
PARIS -As thousands of girls and young women prepare to start the new school year in France, activists are sounding the alarm over those who are missing -teenagers sent abroad over the holidays and forced into marriage. 
Most victims are of Asian, African or Middle Eastern descent and belong to France's Muslim communi­ty, the largest in Europe. 
While countries such as Britain have set up special units that track down vic­tims at home and overseas, activists say France is only 
TODAY 
D::: 
1.&.1 
:::c 
=: 
1.&.1 
3: 
..... 
c( 
(.) 0 

now waking up to the prob­lem. 
"For a long time this used to be considered a cultural thing," Fatima Lalem, who is in charge of gender equality at Paris City Hall, told Reuters. "Something that happens, but that people don't look at too closely." Over the past year, 
Illegal immigrant wins big In Stockholm lottery 
STOCKHOLM -An ille­gal immigrant who scored a big win with a lottery scratch card in Sweden appeared on television on Saturday to collect his 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0,,,,,,,
0,,,,,,, 

0,,,,,/.,
,,,,,,, 

,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,, 
HIGH 73 HIGH 66 HIGH 76 HIGH 76
...I 

LOW 59 LOW 59 LOW 58 LOW 58 
IN BRIEF 
A summer long program for children produced an exhibit entitled "Graffiti Art Project." The exhibit is held in the Crossroads Gallery, 217 South Michigan Street. The display opens at 9 a.m. today. 
"Fritz Scholder, Contemporary Artist: Influences" will be presented by Native American artist Fritz Scholder. The collection will be shown in the Milly and Frits Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art at 10 a.m. today. 
An exhibit entitled "In Praise of Donors. Selections from Dr. and Mrs. R. Stephen Lehman Collection" will be held in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art at 10 a.m. today. 
"Para la Gente: Art, Politics and Cultural Identity of the Taller de Grafica Popular" will be held in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art at 10 
a.m. today. 
An exhibit called "Thin: Photographs by Lauren Greenfield" will host 53 color photographs of young women with eating disorders. It will be held in the O'Shaughnessy West Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art today. 
A Blood Drive will be held at noon in the ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. Participants can sign up at www.givelife.org and schedule an appointment today. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 77 HIGH 74 LOW 58 LOW 59 
Atlanta 86 I 65 Boston 77 I 59 Chicago 76 I 61 Denver 82 I 57 Houston 93 I 72 Los Angeles 80 I 62 Minneapolis 81 I 63 New York 75 I 63 Philadelphia 73 I 62 Phoenix 100 I 81 Seattle 71 I 57 St. Louis 82 I 60 Tampa 92 I 74 Washington 73 I 63 
Tuesday, September 8, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Demand for DVD rentals still strong 
By JILLIAN STINCHCOMB 
NewsWrirer 
The demand for the DVD rental service -started by Notre Dame's Student Government last year -is still strong, according to student body president Grant Schmidt and Nick Ruof, a senator from Carroll and head of the Res Life Committee. 
The service was started 
great way to get people up to the office." 
The ResLife Committee of Student Government runs the service. 
Schmidt said although they haven't promoted the DVD club strongly this year, they will likely send an e-mail to the student body soon, pro­moting the service. 
According to Schmidt, it's mostly used by people that know about it from last year. Although, some students saw the DVD return chute in the Student Government office during Best of LaFortune ­an SAO event highlighting areas of the student center ­and were reminded of the service. 
They haven't set hours for the service yet, but Schmidt 
stated that there was "almost always" someone in the Student Government office to help students looking to rent DVDs, and the DVD return chute is meant for late-night returns when no one is in the office. 
In a couple of weeks, they will also begin actively pur­chasing new releases from the summer months. 

last year 
'The DVD Club is

under former 
important because we

student body president Bob want to supply the Reish's term 
student body with an 

because the 
efficient and

Huddle was removing of convenient way to rent its DVD serv­
DVDs for class or ice. recreation.,,
Schmidt said an added bonus Nick Ruof is that the 
Chair 

program is "a 
Reslife Committee 
Currently there are over 400 titles avail­able in the DVD collection, inc!uding older titles such as "Pretty in Pink" and "Pretty Woman," newer titles such as "No Country for 
Old  Men"  and  
"The  Kite  
Runner,"  as  

well as televi­sion series such as the first cou­ple seasons of "The O.C." and the fourth sea­son of "The Office." 
In a change from last year, there is no longer a five dol­lar deposit to ensure returns. According to Schmidt, that policy was a hassle. Now, stu­dents have to fill out a form with their netiD so that if the DVD isn't returned in a week, they will receive emails reminding them to return their rental. 
"The DVD Club is important because we want to supply the student body with an effi­cient and convenient way to rent DVDs for class or recre­ation," Ruof said. 
Contact Jillian Stinchcomb at jstinch@nd.edu 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
'EMX' logo 111ade available to all 
By MEGAN LONEY NewsWrirer 
A popular fashion for Saint Mary's students has been cloth­ing with an embroidered 'EMX,' which is Greek for 'SMC,' and while the logo has been seen primarily on sweat­shirts and sweatpants sold at the College's Dance Marathon event, the letters may be used by groups other than Dance Marathon in the future. 
Student body president Jenny Hoffman introduced the issue of the 'EMX' logo during a Student Government Association meeting on Monday. SGA is working on a resolution to allow all student groups access to this logo. 
"Basically, Dance Marathon has exclusively used 'EMX' in the past," Hoffman said. 'They used it as their own logo to sell merchandise. It has been brought to our attention that other groups also want to use the 'EMX.' The executive board discussed it, and we think that it is unfair that only one group should be able to use the 'EMX' logo." 
The logo has not been assigned to one group, and did 
Ryan 
continued from page 1 
ideas as a hall. 
"We will fmd what's a good fit for us," Tornifolio said. "Then we will shrink the list and have a dorm vote." 
Tornifolio, previously rector of Pasquerilla East, is adjusting to her new surroundings quite welL 
"It was difficult to leave P.E.," Tornifolio said. "I loved my time there. But the opportunity to start something and build something from the ground was something I felt called to do." 
Senior and first floor Resident Assistant Sarah Pastorek is also excited about Ryan Hall. 
"The biggest thing is that we get to start our own tradition and build the kind of communi­ty we want to live in," Pastorek said. 
Pastorek, previously a resi­dent of McGlinn Hall, said that not originate with Dance Marathon, Hoffman said. "Every student organization should be able to use the logo as they see fit." 

The 'EMX' logo is based on the Greek alphabet equivalents of 'SMC,' but the letters do not mean Saint Mary's College. The logo is a student-designed logo, and not an official trade­mark of the school, Hoffman said. 
The Office of Student Involvement used to grant exclusivity of logos, but because the logo is not associ­ated with Saint Mary's, other than the fact that a couple of students figured out the Greek letters for 'SMC,' the office can­not restrict who uses it, student body vice president Megan Gritrm said. 
Since it is a student-designed logo, the student government is writing a resolution about the logo and guidelines for its use. SGA will vote on the resolution next Monday at their next meeting. 
Just because the logo will be made available to all student organizations, this does not mean that use of the logo will not be regulated. All fundrais­ing apparel has to be approved 
the 248 residents of Ryan Hall are enjoying the new communi­ty. 
"We want to live here," Pastorek said. ''I'm really enjoying living here. I made the right decision." 
However, life in a new build­ing is not without its snags, as the residents of Ryan can attest to. 
"At the moment, we only have warm water, not hot water," sophomore and previ­ously Lewis resident Marta Michalska said. "But really, you have so much awesome stuff here, you can't really com­plain." 
"Some locks are backwards," said sophomore and previously McGlinn Hall resident Maria Emilian. "Sometimes they stick, too, so you can get locked out of your room." 
"We're tweaking here and there," Tornifolio said. "Of course there are things that no one can prepare for. All in all things are going quite smooth­}y. " 
by the director of Student Involvement, Patrick Daniel. 
One result of the logo's avail­ability to all student groups may be an overlapping of fundraising, but SGA members have talked about ways to keep the logo from becoming a con­flict between organizations, but they will not be dictating which groups can use the logo on cer­tain items. 
"A group could do EMX shirts, or shorts," Griffin said. "Let students figure it out. We don't regulate what student groups use a certain design." 
One way to help prevent this dilemma may be to let the organizations know what other organizations are using the logo for, and on what items it will be displayed when they are getting their project approved by Student Involvement, Kristle Hodges, admissions commis­sioner, said. This is to let the groups know they may have competition with fundraising, but they will not be told that they cannot sell 'EMX' T-shirts at the same time another group is selling T-shirts with the same logo. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
To welcome residents, the staff had a Ryan Hall Kickoff on August 31, including a grill-out and girl time for the new com­munity. 
The new building is full of beautiful features, the residents said. Included is a beautiful chapel and large spaces for residents, Emilian said. 
Ryan Hall is a "green" hall, Michalska said. Some green features include high efficiency washing machines, energy effi­cient windows, and toilets that have two flush sizes to save water, Michalska said. 
One thing that was stressed by Ryan Hall residents is the new and unique community. 
"I love that we are all differ­ent," Tornifolio said. "There's lots of excitement, lots of involvement. All the girls involved are trying to take good things from their old dorms, to bring the best of the dorms here." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
Doubles 
continued from page 1 
operating for about a year. 
"The club is a way for differ­ent twins on campus to meet each other and talk to one another about what makes our lives special with being twins," Civantos said. "Being a twin is not the same as not being a twin; you go through life differ­ently. The Twin Club is a forum where we can rejoice in our twin pride." 
Civantos describes her very close relationship with her sis­ter Tess as being her main motivation in trying to bring the various Notre Dame twins together as a group. 
"Although all sets of twins are different, but I would say that nine times out of ten, your twin is your best friend," Civantos said. "Tess is defmitely my best friend." 
She said that while she is glad that she and Tess both ended up at Notre Dame, it was never an intentional act for them to go to the same university. 
"We never wanted to pick a school based on where the other one was going," Civantos said. "Notre Dame ended up being the best fit for both of us." 
Although Civantos and her twin are both pursuing degrees in the Program of Liberal Studies, having the same major as her twin is not typical for most, Civantos said. 
"If two people go through life together, they end up liking the same things on a basic level," she said. "We are different though; I would say Tess is more of the 'rebel twin' and I'd like to think that I have a calm­ing effect on her although I'm sure she'd disagree." 
Junior twins Kennedy and Coleman Collins state that while they are twins, they each have their own personality. 
"I don't think that we're total­campus. It will be the farthest ly different or totally similar," apart the brothers have ever Kennedy said. "We're some­been and for the longest period where in the middle." of time. 
Kennedy says that being an "He's going and I'm not," identical twin doesn't affect his Coleman said. ''I'm still not sure day-to-day existence other than how I feel about it. We'll see the occasional confusion from how it goes with us being apart; friends. I'm excited but we'll see." 
"People confuse my brother Sophomore identical twins and me all the time; it's just Ellie and Catherine Russell have part of being a twin," he said. remained close to each other 
Coleman, who works for The geographically even while on 
Observer photog­ campus.  
raphy depart­ment, says that the confusion  'To see a twin as only a twin is  "I live in Cavanaugh and she lives in  
partly has to do with location. "Last year I lived on North  shortsighted. People ask me all the time what it's like being a  Breen-Phillips," Ellie said. "It's nice to be close."  
Quad  and  he  twin. I turn around  Catherine says  
lived on South," Coleman said. "So when I went  and ask them what it's like not being a  that while she would love to be seen more as an  
on South Quad I'd get called Kennedy all the  twin; I have no other frame ofreference.,  individual and less as a twin, it is convenient for  
time."  other people to  
The  Collins  Kennedy Coleman  identify her with  
said they share  junior  her sister.  

more of a typical sibling relation­ship as opposed to a twin one. 
"It's a normal brother rela­tionship than anything else," Kennedy said. "It's only differ­ent because we're the same age." 
Coleman agrees that he and his brother are their own sepa­rate entities and that it gets tiresome being known as a twin before being known as an indi­vidual. 
"To see a twin as only a twin is shortsighted," he said. "People ask me all the time what it's like being a twin. I turn around and ask them what it's like not being a twin; I have no other frame of reference." 
Along with having different majors, Kennedy and Coleman have different places of resi­dence in the coming months. Kennedy is leaving to study abroad in Rome in a few days while Coleman will remain on "A lot of peo­
ple know us as 'the twins," Catherine said. "Sometimes it's almost easier to be known as that but I would still like to be seen as my own self." 
Both girls say that they enjoy a very close relationship that is beneficial in their lives at Notre Dame. 
''I've had my best friend living with me my whole life and I have her here at school," Catherine said. 
Ellie agrees that having her twin with her at college has its advantages. 
"There are pros and cons to having your twin at school but it's nice to have someone there," Ellie said. "I know that I have someone I care about and that I can always turn to for advice." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
store is or what time the band is playing," he said. "So these

Ga01e 
folks really help people out." continued from page 1 "They gave a lot of visitors maps. They gave them a 
One couple from Tennessee game-day guide," Seamon made the trip to South Bend said. "They're taking pictures solely to go through the tun­of people. People say, can you nel. get a picture of me in front of 
"They literally drove up here the Grotto?" on Friday, did the tunnel, took Another highlight was the the pictures of the tunnel, and new "Rally on the Green," then drove back home," which took place Friday after­Seamon said. "They didn't noon and Saturday before the even stay for the game." game. Over 5,000 students, 
Seamon said fans were alumni and guests came to grateful for the opportunity. Irish Greens, the field behind 
"It was countless stories of DeBartolo Performing Arts people never Center, to listen being able to to live music,
"It was countless 
see that eat food and 
before," he stories ofpeople play games, 
said. never being able to Seamon said. Seven hun­"We just had
see [the tunnel] 
dred people a ton of people
before.,
took advantage go through of the new there," he said. parking option Mike Seamon "People kind of Saturday when used it as a
director
the Notre Dame gathering spot.
Game-Day Operations 
nine-hole golf I think it will 
course was opened to the public for park­ing and tailgating, Seamon said. 
"I spent a lot of time out there on Saturday morning to see how it was coming togeth­er and people were just [real­ly] positive," he said. "The people who came got in real easy and got out real easy." 
Seamon said with good weather, the golf course could be a parking option for up to 2,000 people. But if it rains, the course will not be open for parking. 
Thirty guest service people wearing green blazers were scattered throughout campus Saturday to provide informa­tion and assist guests, Seamon said. 
"When we work and study and live here, we know every­thing that's going on. A lot of people here for the first time don't know where the book-
only continue to get bigger and better each week." 
Seamon said changes to improve security, including a system where fans sent text messages if someone was being unruly, and ticket scan­ners to make the entry process as smooth as possible, were also successful. 
Seamon did not have specific information about any arrests made Saturday and represen­tatives from Notre Dame Security Police could not be reached due to the Labor Day holiday. 
But Seamon did say the weekend was both successful and safe, overall. 
"We think everyone had a pretty safe and good time," he said. "It was a really good weekend." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Photo Courtesy of Megan McCiowry 
Megan McCiowry, a senior cross country team member, takes a picture of Ugandan children during a trip there this past summer. 
shoes to Uganda is both The Belles were also able to expensive and complicated. build on the success of last "We're looking for corporate year's Alumnae Race. sponsors," Miller said. "We had a really good 
The race on Saturday was turnout. A lot of alums came the second Alumnae Race back," Miller said. "Hopefully held by the Saint Mary's cross the race will continue to country team. Students and grow." Alumnae were joined by fac­ulty and parents, all of whom Contact Allison Franklin at donated running shoes. afrank12@nd.edu 


X-Country 
continued from page 1 
McClowry, both volunteered at a clinic in Uganda over the summer. 
Brodmerkel, a former cap­tain who graduated in 2008, volunteered in Uganda in the summer of 2008, and McClowry, who is a captain this year, volunteered during the summer of 2009. 
After Banters suggested working with the connection that the Belles now had with Uganda, the cross country team got together and brain­stormed. The team realized that, as runners, they owned a large amount of old sneak­ers they no longer needed and "one idea led to another," according to Alicen Miller, a 2008 graduate and former captain. 

However, the Saint Mary's cross country team does not have everything it needs to complete this service project. While participants in Saturday's race donated shoes as an entrance fee and some generous alumnae donated money, sending 

ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE 
KING LEAR 
ONLY THREE PERFORMANCES! 
Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday (September 9-11, 2009) 7:30 p.m. at Washington Hall 
TICKETS AVAILABLE NOW 
574-631-2800 
performingarts.nd.edu 

j;f SHAKESPEA. RE rj'\JNIVI\1\SIT\' Ol'
' .•. ··· . .' ·: '~"' NO'l'""D:A'1"'·
.' Ar NOTRE DAM!; ' 1:'1.<:,· · .ni. r. 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 8, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER.:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Police nab eighth jewel thief suspect LONDON -Police say they have charged an eighth man in one of Britain's biggest heists. 
The 22-year-old suspect David Joseph is accused of helping to plot the Aug. 6 theft of $65 million worth of rings, bracelets, necklaces and watches from GrafT Diamonds' flagship store in London. 
Seven others have been. charged with conspir­acy to rob the Bond Street jeweler. One of them, 24-year-old Aman Kassaye, is also accused of attempted murder and false imprisonment. 
Police say two men walked into the store, pulled out guns, briefly took an employee hostage and escaped with the jewels in a series. of getaway cars. 
A ninth suspect has been released on bail and has not been charged. 
Tourists arrested after stiffing cabbie 
ST. JOliN'S, Antigua -Six American tourists in Antigua were charged with assault and mali­cious damage after refusing to pay a cab fare they thought was excessive and later scuffiing with police officers. 
The defendants -Shoshannah and Rachel Henry, Nancy and Dolores Lalane, Mike Tierre and Joshua Jackson-were released on $5,000 bail each and are expected to enter pleas during a court appearance Wednesday. Their home­towns were not immediately available. 
The tourists, who were visiting the Caribbean island on a cruise ship stopover, refused to pay a driver who gave them a tour Friday because they believed they were being overcharged, according to police. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Serial killer arrested after decades 
MILWAUKEE -Milwaukee police said Monday that they arrested a man connected to the slayings of nine women dating back to 1986 by using a DNA sample he provided just last week. 
Walter E. Ellis, 49, was taken into custody after a struggle at a motel on Saturday, said police Chief Edward Flynn. Ellis was charged with two counts of first-degree intentional homi­cide and more charges are expected, said Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm. 
Police said Ellis' DNA was found on the bodies of nine women who were killed between 1986 and 2007 on the citys north side. Investigators believe eight of the women were prostitutes and one was a runaway. They ranged in age from 16 to41. 
Flynn said police used a warrant to obtain Ellis' DNA on Friday, so investigators had to move quickly to test the evidence because Ellis knew they were looking for him. He was arrest­ed in nearby Franklin. 
"Good police work and good police science led us to Walter Ellis," Flynn said. "These cases, some more than 20 years old, were never for­gotten." 
Hiker gets engaged, has life saved 
POTOMAC, Md. -It was a lucky day for one hiker near Washington -and not just because her boyfiiend popped the question. 
Rescue officials say that soon after the woman accepted the marriage proposal during an out­ing along the rugged Billy Goat Trail, she fell about 10 feet down a rock face and had to be rescued by helicopter. She briefly lost conscious­ness, but her injuries weren't life-threatening. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Suspects arrested after shooting 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Police in South Bend have arrested three people after the fatal shooting of a man who was running down a street. 
WSBT-TV says the shooting happened about 10 p.m. Sunday. Witnesses tell the sta­tion they saw the man running down the street while someone behind him fired shots. They say they saw him fall and lie in the street until paramedics arrived several min­utes later. 
The victim's name hasn't been released. He was pronounced dead at Memorial llospital. Police say an autopsy is planned Tuesday. 
AFGHANISTAN 

Afghan civilians killed in airstrike 
German troops admit to killing 70 civilians but defend the decision to attack 
Associated Press 
KUNDUZ, Afghanistan ­An Afghan rights group said Monday a recent airstrike on a pair of hijacked fuel tankers killed as many as 70 civilians in northern Afghanistan, as the German troops whose commander ordered the bombing defended the action. 
Afghan Rights Monitor, an independent human rights group, reported that its survey of the area fol­lowing Friday's attack shows it killed as many as 70 villagers who were siphoning gas from the vehicles after they became stuck on a sand spit in the Kunduz River. 
The group's report came as the German government backed down from its pre­vious insistence that only the Taliban hijackers had died, conceding some civil­ians likely were killed 
But Germany defended the decision to call in an airstrike, citing fears the tankers could have been used to mount a suicide attack on its troops. 

Mohammad Omar, the governor of Kunduz, has also said he -fully support-· ed the airstrike, which he said killed up to 72 people -likely all militants. it occurred and found tors. The U.S. military said northern Afghanistan ­
The Taliban, however, Afghan police carrying it was investigating the the third largest contingent issued a statement calling broken weapons away allegation. of foreign forces behind on the U.N. to join an from the smoldering Civilian deaths have the United States and international investigation tankers -proving, they undermined support for Britain -has been reluc­of the bombing and claim­said, the dead were linked foreign forces among many tant to commit more ing that 150 villagers had to insurgents. Afghans. Growing public troops. At the same time, died. "If they respect The soldiers, interviewed anger prompted the top the U.S. and its NATO human· rights and the at their Kunduz base, were American and NATO com­allies are considering a blood of human beings, eager to defend their com­mander in the country, major expansion of their they should determine the mander, Col. Georg Klein, u~s. Gen. Stanley troop levels here. truth or falsity of this situ­who asked U.S. jets to McChrystal, to draw up a For many Germans, the ation," the statement said. attack the hijackers. new doctrine aimed at lim­country's role in the 
German so~diers in But that decision has iting such casualties. Afghan conflict raises Kunduz on Monday reject­come under intense criti­McChrystal has pledged unwelcome memories of ed criticism that their com­cism, inside and outside to investigate Fri9,ay's air their country's past mili­manders acted rashly in Afghanistan. strike. tarism. calling in the U.S. war­In another incident The attack on the The German public also planes. where NATO coalition hijacked tankers provoked fears losing more soldiers 
Three soldiers from troops were criticized for outrage in Germany, where -35 have been killed in Armored Infantry Battalion their use of force, a charity newspapers ran graphic Afghanistan since 2002. 391, who spoke on condi­Monday accused American photos of badly burned vic­Battalion 391 's third com­tion of anonymity under soldiers of storming tims, stoking opposition to pany has already lost two German military rules, through a provincial hospi­the war. soldiers in combat since said they went to the scene tal, breaking down doors Germany, which has arriving in Kunduz three of the airstrike hours after and tying up staff and visi-some 4,200 soldiers in months ago. 

Deadly L.A.-area arson fire still burning 
The blaze was 56 percent con­cause of the fire was arson but have
Associated Press tained and had blackened 157,220 released no findings. LOS ANGELES -Just as firefight­acres, or 246 square miles, as it Los Angeles County firefighters ers were intensifying their efforts to· burned deeper into the wilderness in Tedmund Hall and Arnaldo Quinones contain the flames menacing the its 13th day, feeding off leaf litter on were killed in a vehicle accident foothill neighborhoods of the San the ground, old growth and dead Aug. 30 while seeking an escape Gabriel Valley, another part of the timber. route for their inmate fire crew after deadly fire in the Angeles National "Even the mountain goats won't flames overran their camp on Mount Forest flared up. climb in there because it's so steep Gleason. Fire officials canceled their plans and rugged," Judy said. Sheriff's spokesman Steve Monday to burn out brush to create The flames have reached the bot­Whitmore said the men's vehicle was a buffer south of the ferocious fire. tom of the south face of Mount airlifted off a mountain and taken to 
U.S. Forest Service spokesman Waterman, which has a small ski a secure location Monday so investi­Nathan Judy said the weather didn't area on its northern side. gators could analyze it. The exami­cooperate and the aircraft needed to • Meanwhile, Los Angeles County nation of the site where the fire support and monitor the burnout sheriff"s and fire investigators con­started near the Angeles Crest operations were diverted to the fire's tinued their homicide investigation Highway wrapped up Monday, he northeastern flank. into the fire. Officials have said the said. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
Miss. investigates new racial rumors 
Associated Press 
SUMNER, Miss -In the Mississippi Delta, nothing spreads faster than a rumor that an armed white mob chased black thieves through a cotton field. Throw in an armored personnel carrier and a racially charged past, and it's no surprise federal investigators are checking it out. 
Suspicion is especially deep in Sumner, population about 400, the town where two white men were tried and acquitted in the notorious 1955 slaying of Emmett Till, a black Chicago teenager lynched for whistling at a white woman. 
Clearly, there was some kind of search Aug. 20 in a cotton field near Sumner and a black man was arrested. The details, however, are anything but clear. Local speculation about the matter is rife distrust. 
And beneath the racial over­tones is tension between the father of one suspect and the elected Tallahatchie County prosecutor, both strong-willed, small-town lawyers with color­ful personalities. 
This much is known: A crop duster pilot named Pat Ryan came home from work Aug. 20 and interrupted a burglary. Two men dashed out the back door and into a cotton field. One ran out of his boots, which were found in the field near a trail of stolen pocket change. 
Word travels fast in Sumner, where even a hint of excitement draws a crowd, and neighbors rushed to Ryan's home. Police officers from nearby towns, sheriff's deputies and a dog team from a state prison searched for the suspects. Even firefighters showed up. 
John Whitten III, the 60-year­old, white-haired and bearded county prosecutor, climbed into a Vietnam-era Jeep at his near­by home and headed for the scene. Friends followed in a British FV432 armored person­nel carrier that's part of Whitten's military memorabilia collection. 
Cornelius Pittman, 24, heard his brother was one of the sus­'pects and rushed to the scene to talk him into surrendering. 
What happened next depends on which witness you ask. 
Whitten says he offered the personnel carrier -which he says is licensed and street-legal -to aid police in their search. Whitten said police declined and the vehicle was sent home. 
That's not how Pittman describes it. 
"John said, 'I can run over him with the tank and get human meat in the tracks and that ... can stink for weeks or I can burn him out,"' Pittman said. 
Cornelius Pittman also said Whitten wouldn't let him leave. 
Whitten disputes that, saying he told Pittman "to get your brother to give himself up before somebody gets hurt." Whitten acknowledged looking in Pittman's trunk to make sure he wasn't helping the suspects escape, but he said Pittman opened the trunk voluntarily. 
The Tallahatchie County sher­iff has not responded to numer­ous calls. Sumner's police chief said the burglary happened in his jurisdiction, but not the search, and he provided little information. 
Authorities said they arrested 28-year-old William Pittman, uninjured, at a nearby home. He was charged with breaking and entering and released from jail that day. 
Whitten, a self-described mili­tary history buff, said he's the victim of a smear campaign orchestrated by Clarksdale attorney Ellis Pittman -the Pittman brothers' father -who wants to discredit authorities to keep William Pittman out of prison. 
The two lawyers have a tur­bulent history, according to Ellis Pittman, a trim, 46-year-old Tallahatchie County native. He said the two nearly came to blows in a judge's chambers more than a year ago when Whitten used a racial slur. Whitten denies it, saying the two had a cordial professional relationship. 
Whitten's father, John Whitten Jr., was a defense attorney for two men accused of killing Till in 1955. Till was abducted in neighboring Leflore County and his body was found in the Tallahatchie River. The trial took place in the Sumner court­house. Today, the four clocks on the courthouse tower all tell a different time, which may be appropriate for a town that can't seem to escape the past. 
Whitten III says his family connection to the infamous case makes him an easy target for racial hysteria. 
This isn't the first time Whitten has been accused of taking the law into his own hands. Whitten was fined $2,500 in the 1990s when he was a city judge and accused of holding three suspected tres­passers at gunpoint after shoot­ing their truck tire. 
The men also won $110,000 from Whitten in a lawsuit. Whitten said they tried to run him over with a truck. 
Federal authorities, mean­while, are trying to sort out the events of Aug. 20. Several peo­ple said they have been contact­ed by the FBI. . 
Britt Brown, a 59-year-old black former police chief of nearby Tutwiler, said there was no white mob while he was there. Instead, Brown said, it was a group of people both black and white who were con­cerned or curious and just standing around. 
But Terry Taylor, an oflicer for the Webb and Tutwiler police departments, said at least six civilians, some armed, including Whitten, joined the &earch. 
Recordings Ellis Pittman made of conversations with some of the officers involved indicate that someone fired several shots, but it wasn't clear who or where they were aiming. 
William Pittman was found barefoot and muddy and told authorities he ran from the field when shots were fired, Taylor said. 
Taylor also said a man who helped arrest Pittman was no longer on the force and wasn't a certified oflicer. 
U.S, Rep. Bennie Thompson, a Democrat whose district includes Sumner, asked the U.S. Justice Department to investi­gate. 
"I've talked to a number of people in the community who, to be quite honest, have been traumatized by what they saw as vigilante activities on the part of unauthorized citizens," Thompson said. 

Kennedy not running for Senate 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Former Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy II, the eldest son of Hobert F. Kennedy, announced Monday he would not run for the U.S. Senate scat held for nearly 50 years by his late uncle, Edward M. Kennedy. The decision was certain to widen the race for the Democratic nomination. 
In a statement, the former six­term congressman said he cares about those seeking decent housing, fair wages and health care. But he added, "The best way for me to contribute to those causes is by continuing my work at Citizens Energy Corp." 
The nonprofit organization provides free heating oil to the poor, but Kennedy likely would have faced campaign questions about fuel it received from Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez--a persistent U.S. crit­
ic. He also has settled into a comfortable lifestyle since leav­ing Congress. in 1999, taking home a $545,000 salary as Citizens Energy's president as of 2007, and being spared the barbs he has faced from some local columnists recently for his past temper tantrums and high pay. 
Yet Kennedy also may have garnered support from the legions of Massachusetts Democrats who long supported his uncle, to whom he paid trib­ute in a widely applauded memorial service speech last month. He also had name recog­nition among national followers of his father, who was a U.S. senator from New York when he was assassinated in June 1968 while seeking the Democratic presidential nomination. 
"My father called politics an honorable profession, and I have profound respect for those 

who choose to advance the 
causes of social and· economic 
justice in elective office," the 56­
year-old Kennedy said. Friends 
said that among those who had 
been urging him to consider a 
candidacy were his own sons, 
28-year-old twins Matthew and 
Joseph III. 
The decision surrenders a 
seat the Kennedy family has 
held for all but two years since 
1953, when John F. Kennedy 
moved from the U.S. House to 
the Senate, before being elected 
president in 1960. It became 
vacant Aug. 25, when Edward 
Kennedy died of brain cancer at 
age 77. He was first elected to 
the Senate in 1962. 
It also removes an excuse for 
three veteran Massachusetts 
congressmen -Reps. Michael 
Capuano, Edward J. Markey 
and John Tierney-who have 
said they are considering cam­
paigns but would not run 
against a member of the 
Kennedy family. The senator's 
widow, Vicki, had previously 
ruled out a campaign. 
In a fiery speech Monday 
morning to a Boston labor 
breakfast, Capuano sought to 
distinguish himself from 
unnamed competitors. 
"Everybody loves you today," 
the congressman told a crowd of 
about 400, including Tierney 
and Markey. "Everybody's for 
prevailing wage, everybody's for 
(project-labor agreements), 
everybody's for this, that and 
the other thing. Me too. That's 
good. But when it comes time to 
make the tough deeisions, that's 
when you start to figure who's 
with you and who's not." 
Markey said before address­ing the crowd that he was still weighing a race, highlighting his -stature as a 33-year member of the llouse, honorary title as dean of the New England dele­
gation and chairmanship of the House Select Committee for Energy Independence. 
After Kennedy announced his decision, Markey issued a state­ment saying: "I now must weigh where I can make the greatest impact on the issues facing the people of Massachusetts." 
Former Hep. Martin Meehan, who is now chancellor of the University of Massachusetts­Lowell but still has nearly $5 million in his campaign account, had also said he would defer to Kennedy, but he has been luke­warm about a campaign even if Kennedy declined to run. 
Another Democrat, Rep. Stephen Lynch, said at the breakfast it's "likely" he will be announcing his candidacy dur­ing the next week. The former ironworker, who lives in blue­collar South Boston, said he wanted to wait until after Labor Day. 
"I probably won't fit in in the 

U.S. Senate, but, I think that, in a lot ofcases, the people of Massachusetts don't want a sen­ator to fit in. They want them to stand out, and I offer through my experience," Lynch said. 
Lynch recalled twice being laid off from shipbuilding and automaking jobs, adding, "I share the experience that a lot of others are feeling right now." 
Attorney General Martha Coakley became the first high­profile Democrat to declare for the seat when she announced her candidacy last week. Her supporters lined city intersec­tions for two blocks around the hotel hosting the Greater Boston Labor Council breakfast, testify­ing to her early organizational advantage in the 90-day sprint to the primary election. 
"We're off and running," Coakley said as she shook hands outside. 

'Call or stop by your nearest Notre Dame Federal Credit Unioo branch for full disclosure. 'Annual Percentage Rate (APR). Rate ol7.9%APR valid only on balance transfers fmm another financial ins!Hutlon·s credit card. Payments will apply to blllances of 7.9%APR firs!. II you are aVisa' Platinum Card holder. the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on an account past due two (2) cycles (payments) will increaSfllo 17.9%. Accounts one payment tare revert to the standard prevailing rate. lnt!ePt~ndent oflhe University 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,441.27 +96.66 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,944 92 774 461,474,829 

AMEX 


NASDAQ 2,018.78 +3558 NYSE .dk 6;6,7~~3 ~sitii S&P 500 1,QJ~.·.1Q +I J.16 NIKKEI (Tqlc)tQj, r·. ·..ilftl1ii~Ull !illl!lllll 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,933.18 +81.48 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP{C) +1.86 +0.08 4.85 FANNIE MAE (FNM} +7.93 +0.13 1.77 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) +1.48 +0.25 17.09 s&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.40 +1.41 102.06 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +3.43 +0.114 3.44 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.000 0.13 30-YEAR BOND +2.96 +0.123 4.27 5-YEAR NOTE +3.29 +0.075 2.36 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.06 68.02 GOLD (${Troy oz.) ~1.00 996.70 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +2.00 82.88 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.9050 EURO 1.4334 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0782 BRITISH POUND 1.6338 
IN BRIEF 
Massey Energy CEO blasts energy bill 
HOLDEN, W.Va.-The chief executive of coal mining giant Massey Energy blasted supporters of climate-change legislation and other environ­mental issues affecting the coal industry at a free Labor Day concert and rally in southern West VIrginia. 
CEO Don Blankenship said he wanted to show people at the event how government regulation is hurting the coal industry, driving up energy prices and making the country less competitive. 
"We're hopeful that through networking that they will educate their neighbors and that they'll all begin to speak out," Blankenship said. "We think that will make a difference." 
Richmond, Va.-based Massey, which operates mines in West Virginia, Kentucky and VIrginia, is the lead sponsor of the rally, which Blankenship said cost about $1 million to stage. 
New Jersey labor leader dies at 32 
NEWARK, N.J.-Richard F. Cunningham Jr., a dynamic New Jersey labor leader who helped found an organization for low-wage, immigrant workers and started a punk rock record label, has died. He was 32. 
Diagnosed with colon cancer in 2005, Cunningham succumbed to the disease on Friday. His death was confirmed by the Crabiel Home for Funerals in Milltown. 
The Rev. Joseph Kerrigan, a New Brunswick pastor who officiated at Cunningham's Labor Day funeral service, says the Livingston native com­bined his strong Catholic faith and family's union roots to build the New Labor organization into a group of more than 1,500 dues-paying members. 
"The thing about Rich is that he was very much the charismatic figure you want to see at the founding of an organization," Kerrigan said. "At the same time he was also someone who wouldn't bring a lot of attention to himself; it was always the struggle, the battle, that was more impor­tant." 
Cunningham graduated with a labor studies degree from Rutgers University in 1999 and help found New Labor in 2000. The group's organiza­tional model garnered national attention by unionizing mostly young, low-wage immigrant workers while offering them community services such as English-as-a-second-language classes and computer training. 
Firms invest in charter schools 
Despite economy, private investors provide funding for American education 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. ­Charter schools, already see­ing a surge in students, are getting attention from anoth­er group -private investors. 
Entertainment Properties Inc., known mostly for sink­ing its money into movie the­aters and wineries, recently bought 22 locations from charter school operator Imagine Schools for about $170 million. The real estate investment trust acts as land­lord, while Imagine operates the schools and is using the investment to expand its chain of 7 4 locations. 
"They really are an effec­tive source of long-term financing that we can rely on and enables us to do what we're best at, which is run­ning schools, and do what they're best at, which is long­term real estate ownership," said Barry Sharp, chief finan­cial officer for Arlington, Va.­based Imagine. "It's a good 
fit." 
Charter school supporters hope the move by Kansas City-based Entertainment Properties is the first of many such partnerships as they deal with increased interest from parents but not more money to build or expand their facilities. 

In the past decade, the number of U.S. charter iting their growth and it's lim­who know how to operate grade. schools has tripled to 4,618, iting the expansion of existing schools, hire teachers and While the renovated 19th­while the number of students schools." develop a curriculum, he century school in Kansas City enrolled has almost quadru­Charter school supporters said, provides the company a looks like any other public pled to more than 1.4 million, say the need for construction more dependable return. school, there are subtle dif­according to the National funding is high, and the entry "We're not speculators, ferences: the color-coded polo Alliance for Public Charter of a for-profit player like we're investors, so I have to shirts the students wear to Schools. Entertainment Properties sig­invest in property making signify their grade, smaller 
While charter schools are nals that they've gone from money for me and my cus­class sizes and an added publicly funded, they often being an educational curiosi­tomers today," said Brain, emphasis on science. don't have the same access to ty to being seen as a future whose trust oversees a $2.6 Sharp said Imagine could bonds and other financing significant part of the educa­billion portfolio. "The charter have used a combination of available to mainstream pub­tionallandscape. public schools offer mortgage financing and other lic schools. That forces many David Brain, chief execu­lenders/leaseholders a funding to fuel its growth. But to operate in places like tive of Entertainment dependable revenue stream he said that would have storefronts or church base­Properties, said he initially backed by a government forced the company to keep ments, said Todd Ziebarth, was skeptical of investing in payer. It's a very desirable relying on rental properties it vice president of policy for charter schools. But he said equation." had little control over. the alliance. he looked deeper and deter­Enrollment at Imagine "We would have had to go 
"I think it's probably the mined that most of the char­Renaissance Academy of out and use some of the biggest challenge facing char­ter school operations that Environmental Science and money to maintain our ters, not only finding space had failed either never Math, Kensington Campus -investment in our existing but once you find it how do opened or were independent among the schools sold -buildings and therefore it you pay for it, particularly if operations with little experi­was near capacity by its sec­wouldn't have made it into you're going to buy it," ence. ond year, with 515 students the new ones the same way," Ziebarth said. "I think it's lim-Focusing on large players in kindergarten through fifth he said. 

Health bill threatens safety-net hospitals 
Associated Press proposals in Congress may threaten the "It looks like a national plan will be 
funding and future of the nation's modeled on Massachusetts and it's a dis­
CHICAGO-Janie Johnson has no already-struggling safety net hospitals. aster for poor people," said Dr. Steffie health insurance, so when she cut her It's an irony hospital leaders are Woolhandler, Harvard Medical School toe while giving herself a pedicure, she expressing quietly as Congress recon­professor and a doctor at Cambridge limped to the emergency room at one of venes this week to take up health care Hospital. Chicago's safety net hospitals and waited again. Hospital leaders support expand­"The insurance offered doesn't cover her turn. ing insurance coverage to more everyone," she said. "It's filled with gaps 
''I'm 44, but I probably look about 55 Nericans, but they worry financing the like copayments and deductibles. right now," Johnson joked in Stroger expansion will cause some teetering Patients can't afford it, so they turn to Hospital's emergency department where urban hospitals to deteriorate and close. the public sector and the public sector more than 100 patients sat waiting. They point to Massachusetts, the labo­isn't there anymore." Urgent cases, from chest pains to gun­ratory for health care overhaul, where What worries Woolhandler and others shot wounds, are rushed to doctors first. one safety net hospital, Boston Medical are proposals to finance national reform Johnson was glad to have somewhere to Center, is suing the state claiming it's that would reduce payments gradually go for health care. covering too much of the cost for to hospitals handling more than their 
"I don't know what I would do" with­expanding coverage. Another safety net share of uninsured patients. One propos­out the hospital, she said. "My health standby, Cambridge Health Alliance, has al would reduce these funds -called would probably get worse." closed health centers and cut services; DSH payments for "disproportionate 
To all the knotty issues involved in its Somerville Hospital no longer keeps share hospital" -by $20 billion, in three health care overhaul, add one more: The patients overnight. large annual chunks starting in 2017. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

'Obamacare' raises problems 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROlLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO I @saimmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OssERVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Marys College. Editorial content, inclucling advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisaarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department eclitors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through !etters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Ediwr-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The 0~ {USPS 599 24000) is published Mon<hy through Friday excqH during exam uu:l v:acuion periods. A subscription to The: Obsa"v~tt is $110 foro~ aatdt:mic year; $65 fur Oil( semester. 
The Observer is publi:sbed at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Notre O:tmc, tN 4G55(i..On9 The-Observer Pcriodkal po~rage paid at Notre llimt: P.O. Box779 and additional mailing officu. 024 Sm:nh Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
T1u: Observa" is a mt:mba of~ Associated Press. All reproduaion rights are ~­
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Ashley Charnley Sam Werner Alicia Smith Michael Blasco Tess Civantos Chris Masoud Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Kaitlyn Conway 
Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 
The main health care bill, H.R. 3200, "America's Affordable Health Care Act of 2009," has 1,017 pages. I read it, which gave me some, but not much, sympathy for House members who admit that they voted for it in committee, or endorsed it, without reading it. 
Section 1233 (pages 424-34), on "advanced care planning consul­tation," expands the physician services that Medicare will reim­burse, to include consultations regarding end-of­life decision-mak­ing. Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) says the Senate Finance Committee has removed "the end-of-life provisions" from its bill because they would pay physicians to "advise patients about end-of-life care and rate physician quality of care based on the creation of and adherence to orders li1r end-of-life care." But that bill is only one of several on the s~ject. It is too early to count the end-of-life consultations out. A<> Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius said on August 16, ''I'm hoping that at the end of the day" the con­sultation provisions "will be part of the overall package." 
Let's look at what Section 1233 says and, more important, what it does not say and thus leaves to bureaucratic, implementing regulations which could make the 1,017 pages of the bill look like a telegram. An "advance care planning consultation" is between "the individual and a practitioner" who does not have to be the individual's own physician. A "practitioner" can be a physician or a "nurse practitioner or physi­cian's assistant who has the authority under State law to sign orders for life sustaining treatments." The bill does not state whether the consultation will be initiated by the practitioner or by the individual. Nor does it state that the individual is compelled to have a consultation. "Though not mandato­ry," wrote Charles Lane of the Washington Post editorial board, "the consultations ... aren't quite 'purely volun­tary.' To me," he said, "'purely voluntary,' means 'not unless the patient requests one.' Section 1233 ... lcl<> doetors initiate the chat and gives them an incentive -money-to do so. Indeed, that's an incentive to insist. Patients may refuse without penalty, but many will bow to white-coated authority. Once they're in the meeting, the bill docs permit 'formulation' of a plug-pulling order 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

right then and there." Re~-,rulations could, in effect, make the consultations mandatory, to be initiated by the individual or thP practi­tionPr with penalties on the individual who fails to initiate it. 
A consultation shall include: "An explana­tion by the practitioner of advance care planning ... and ... advance directives, including living wills and durable powers of attornny ... the role ... of a health care proxy ... ltlhe provision by the practition(~r of a list of ... resources to assist ... with advanced care planning ... (a(n explanation ... of ... end-of-life services ... available, including patient care and hospice ..• an explanation of orders regarding life sustain­ing treatment ... whkh shall include ... the reasons why ... such an order is benelicial to the individual and tl1e individual's family and the reasons why such an order should be updated periodically as the health of the individual changes.'' Note that the consulta­tion "shall include" ru1 explanation of only one side of the question of whether such an order would be beneficial. 
"A consultation ... may include the for­mulation of an order regarding life sustain­ing treatment ... (which is] an actionable ... order relating to the tmatment of that indi­vidual that (i) is signed and dated by a physician ... or anothnr health care profes­sional (as specified by the Secretary) ... in a form that permits it to stay with the individ­ual and be followed by health care profr~s­sionals ... across the continuum of care; (ii) ... communicates the individual's prefer­ences regarding life sustaining treatment, including an indication of the treatment and care dnsired by the individual; (iii) is .. . standardized within a given locality ... (as identified by the Secretary); and (iv) may incorporate any advance directive ... if exe­cuted by the individual.'' 
"The level of treatment indicated" by the order "may range from ... full treatment to an indication to limit some or all or specified interventions. Such ... levels oftreatment may include indications respecting, among other items-(i) the intensity of medical intervention if the patient is pulse-less, apneic, or ha<> serious eardiac or pulmonary problems; (ii) the individual's desire regard­ing t.ransfer to a hospital or remaining at the current care setting; (iii) the use of antibiotics; and (iv) the use of artificially administered nutrition and hydration." 
This "actionable" order becomes part of' the individual's permanent record, available to the government and health care profes­sionals who are required to follow it. Opponnnl<> of end-of-lifi1 consultations were dmided by President Obama and the mndia for raising the prospect of"death panels.'' 
But note that the order does not have to be signed by the practitioner who conducts the consultation. Regulations, consistent with Section 1233, could provide that the order would be signed by a "health care profes­sional" other than that practitioner who for­mulated it. There is no mandate that the professional who signs the order ever saw the individual involved. Could the signer be a member of a panel reviewing such orders without ever seeing the patient? Apparently so. 
Th(~ order "communicates the individual's preferences ... including ... tim treatment ... desirnd by the individual." But it does not specifY that the order must comply witl1 those preferences. If the individual had exe­cuted an advance directive, the order "may incorporate" it but does not have to include it or even refer to it. 
Section 1233 does not state whether the individual's personal physician, lawyer or family members may be present at the "advru1ce care planning consultation." Nor does it specifY that the order will be subject to judicial review. 
An "advance care planning consultation" may be held "if the individual ... has not had sueh a consultation within the last 5 years.'' A consultation "may be conducted more frequently ... iftl1ere is a significant change in the health condition of the indi­vidual, ineluding diagnosis of a chronic, pro­gressive, life-limiting disease, a life-threat­ening or terminal diagnosi<> or life-threaten­ing injury, or upon admission to a skilled nursing facility, a long-term care facility ... or a hospice program." The bill imposes no limit on the number or frequency of such consultations, raising the prospect of repeated pressuring of patients to forego treatment. 
"Obamacare" seeks to increase those who are covered and to reduce costs. The only way to achieve both objectives is to ration the health care provided to the elderly and disabled. Half of a person's medical expens­es generally occur in the last six months of life. The rationing, at first, will be technical­ly voluntary. Grandma will be told that she is not eligible for that hip replacement. She will be given the option of taking pain pills. But she will be encouraged to relieve the burden on her family through legal means ofachieving "death with dignity." Section 1233 is evil in its effect and potential. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. He may be reached at rice.J@nd.edu or 633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What did you think of the Dillon Pep Rally? 
Liked it Didn't like it Didn't go 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One is left with the horrible feeling now that war settles nothing; that to win a war is as disastrous as to lose one." 
Agatha Christie English mystery author 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 8, 2009 page 9 
Hope in action 

What does it mean for you to live in hope? Is it as a sports fan, obsessing over injury reports and game schedules, debating and commiserating with friends in front of a packed stadium or television set, all the while Paul Ybarra, hoping for a win? Is CSC it as a student, studying and read­Guest ing, pouring over a Columnist semester's worth of work with hopes that you will make the grade? All too often our hopes lay in the hands of anoth­er, be it a professor, or be it a football team. The challenge for us all is to take what can seem to be a passive endeavor and transform it into an active one. As Christians, this is truly what faith demands of us. To be hope in action. 
As a seminarian in the Congregation of Holy Cross, I have come to view hope as actively choosing to live differently. To live a life of prayer, to reflect on how hope in God can become hope in action. For me that has meant, and continues to mean, standing with the poor, doing service, actively choosing to give my time to those in need. It has been at times as simple as choosing to recycle, to conserve energy, to being conscious of what I buy and where it comes from. As a two-time alum and current graduate student in Theology I have been aided in this endeavor to embody hope in who I am and what I do by the Center for Social Concerns. 

I want to invite you to come and see. Come and see the new Geddes Hall, the first "green" building on campus. Come and be a part of seminars over fall, win­ter, and spring break, to learn, serve, and live a more compassionate life outside the classroom. Be part of the CSC's campaign "Hope in Action." Learn to live differently by embodying what Pope Benedict XVI's states in Spe Salvi, that "all serious and upright human conduct is hope in action." 
Paul Ybarra is a 2002 and 2004 graduate ofNotre Dame and is a seminarian and member ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Exhibit indeed 

Eating Disorders are not art. Emaciated women are not art. Death and destruction are not art. However, the administration of the Snite Museum apparently disagrees. By promoting Lauren Greenfield's doc­umentary, Thin, which follows four young women in a residential treatment facility for eating disorders, as art, they are equating a deadly mental illness with mere entertainment. The advertising for this exhibit fuels the obsession of many women and men with dieting, exercise, and body image. I strongly urge the Snite to reconsider its vast advertising campaign and even the exhibit itself for the sake of the mental and physical health of the students of the University of Notre Dame. 
Morgan C. Caudle alumna Class of 2009 Sept. 7 

U-WIRE 
Fanatacism. over IKEA font change 
Thanks to the blend of current events, coupled with numerous domes­ticated issues across the country, the change of IKEA's signature type­face from Futura to Verdana font is another issue for consumers to digest. 
For more than 60 years, IKEA has represented the charming Swedish vendor of inexpensive, unique home furnishings. The company's 2010 catalog delivers familiar 
Bissan Rafe

appeal, but this time the text is brandished by the not-so-familiar Verdana font. 
University of

Although the company has not provided an offi­cial reason for the change, IKEA spokeswoman Houston Monika Gocic said the Verdana font is more cost­The Daily Cougar efficient because Verdana, which is distributed by Microsoft, allows IKEA to use the same font in all countries. 
The difference between the fonts is virtually unnoticed. But according to the designers and thousands of fans, the change reflects an unfavor­able alteration to the IKEA brand. The main complaint protesters share, besides the font's ugly appearance, is that the original font portrayed IKEA's innovative philosophy. The Futura font provided a unique theme that fit the company's style. 
Amid all the tragedies in the news, IKEA's font fiasco has provoked an immediate hostile response. The uproar created on blogs, Twitter and other social-networking Web sites fueled Romanian design consultant Marius Ursache to start an online petition aimed at persuading IKEA to bring back the Futura font. 
So another protest is launched and although it is not quite as desper­ate, it is crucially alarming in the name of trivial issues. Verdana is just a text in catalogs and sticking to mundane and safe formalities does not always prevail. The Rolling Stone is a prime example. The long-formatted magazine has been replaced with the typical off-the-rack magazine format. 
This is disappointing, but it still sells. IKEA will sell as well. 
The alarm is going off not for the font change, but for the tremendous response it received. This in turn linked this feedback loop to society's indifference and careless tonality of current events. Why is there so much uproar over a font? Are we that bored, or have we run out of causes to fight for? 
Sadly, we have arrived at the age of narcissistic journalism, a con­sumer-based lullaby that feeds our society with stocks, sex and empty false idealism. 
We have enough hungry children, women's rights issues, war frontiers and political scandals to rage about. Let's not let font spam our polls and petitions. 
This column first ran in the Sept. 3 edition ofThe Daily Cougar, the daily newspaper serving the University ofHouston. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Thanks for the tnetnories 
My 11-year-old son loves all things Notre Dame. He loves football, is in Junior Football League, and one of his goals is to play football for the University of Notre Dame. This past Saturday we had tickets in Section 35 right by the Student Section. After Notre Dame's fourth touchdown, he felt someone tap him on his shoulder and he turned to me and said, ''I'm going to do push-ups!" I turned around and watch his face light up as several students lifted him into the air, 28 times. I guess time will tell if he will play for the University of Notre Dame, but even if he doesn't, I can tell you this: he will never forget the first time he did push-ups in the Notre Dame stu­dent section! I don't know the students who did this for him, but that little gesture just created a lifetime memory for an eleven year old football-loving-boy at the University of Notre Dame. So if you are reading this, thank you! And you are, with­out a doubt, ND! 
Mark Altenhof Goshen, IN Sept. 7 

Nevv scoreboard flops 
On Saturday, we saw many firsts for the Notre Dame gameday experience. The band marched through the Law School arch. There were new gameday hospitality measures. The first shutout in the Charlie Weis era. Another first was the introduc­tion of the new energy efficient scoreboards. 
While we applaud the University's concern for the environment and energy con­sumption, we feel that the manner in which new LED displays were used detracted from the unique atmosphere of Notre Dame Stadium. Specifically, some graphics that were displayed during the game were nothing short of atrocious. The old display was simple, and while it wasn't flashy it gave fans all the information they needed. Graphics were simple and certainly did not compare to other over-the-top stadium scoreboards, which was just fine. The simple scoreboard ensured that fans focused on the game and evoked a more traditional feel inside the stadium. 
The new display has full color, which is a welcome upgrade. However, this has turned out to be a double edged sword. While some displays, like the monogram and American flag in full color, were classy additions, other new usages were inappropri­ate. Following a big defensive play, the moon exploding followed by "Bam!" was completely unnecessary. If we just got a first down on a 12-yard run, we don't need to be told "What a sweet run" it was (and why isn't the running back wearing school colors?). The "Get loud" and clapping animations were superfluous, and frankly, insulting. Notre Dame fans are intelligent enough to follow a game and know when to clap and cheer. 
So what are we asking for? We want the scoreboard to tell us what we want to know, such as other game scores and game stats. The scoreboard should not display silly graphics that serve no purpose. When fans enter Notre Dame Stadium, they should experience a traditional and unique experience that can't be found anywhere else. Unfortunately, some of the new graphics are out of place, and they should no longer be used. 
Stephen Siena junior Keough Hall Alexander Buell junior St.Edward's Hall Rob Ryan sophomore Keough Hall Sept. 7 



Funny French Bulldog Goes Crazy On Yoga Ball 
Baby Cries When She Hears The Michigan Fight Song 

far and wide can only could hold. A sec­35-0 shutout against USC? Let's go with 'yes' and 'I expect nothing less.' 
little girl knows how the game is played, and watching her reacti akes the smirk nothing more and nothing less than smug. She is does and doesn't play real football at an early stage in her life. 
And back to the funny animals! This cat is super sneaky, and while n '""'r'"'nA will find it as amusing.&S I do Oowattentionspan, folks), it is entertaining to observe as the cat gets closer with every camera shot. 
ing ninjas in the audience, take note. This is how it's done. If 1 as good as this cat. my roommates would have to sleep with both Or. conversely, stay a.wa~e.all nighteverynight, 
Now this is one that probably (unfortunately) slipped through the 'm sure a few of you-not many, of course-will refuember how a ..,,.,.....v, •• was our Commencement speaker this past May. It was a b , by the way. But I'm sure even lessof you will recall the reactions e University's decision. This is one of the more amusing ones. Jo tewart, you capture our school well. 
So when you nee(i to turn that frown upside down ;,....-or avoid that paper due on Friday-pull up these for some senseless, time wasting amusement. all, being easily entertained facilitates procrastination, and YouTube is 



BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

,-----­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
page 11 

By JOEY KUHN Assistant Scene Editor 

ZZ Top, the legendary Texan blues­rock band, will perform at the Morris Performing Arts Center this Wednesday evening. 
ZZ Top has been playing together for 40 years and is one of the few active classic rock bands that still consist of the original band line-up. The trio of Billy Gibbons, Dusty Hill and Frank Beard was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 by Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones. Early in his career, Gibbons used to play with Jimi Hendrix, who named Gibbons one of his own favorite guitarists. 
Over their four decades, ZZ Top has journeyed all the way from roots rock to electronically-tinged synth rock and back again. 
After forming in late 1969, the band achieved fame in the 1970s with their relatively simple, guitar-bass-drums approach to the blues. Their songs could have comprised the soundtrack for a Hell's Angels lifestyle of cars, booze, and girls. The band reinforced this Texas­biker image by wearing black leather, cowboy hats, sunglasses, and later, chest-length beards (ironically, Frank Beard is the only member without a beard). In 1984, the Gillette Company reportedly offered Gibbons and Hill a million dollars each to shave their beards in a television commercial, but they declined, stating, "We're too ugly without them." 
During the 1980s, like almost every other band, they began to experiment more with electronic effects and synthe­sizers, crafting a new sound that blend­ed their good-times Texas rock with eighties pop. They embraced MTV and produced a series of hit music videos featuring a cherry 1933 Ford Coupe hot rod and a trio of nameless babes. Their most popular album to date, "Eliminator," comes from this era. 
The band eventually began turn back to their original, more minimal blues­rock sound in the 1990s. They have received numerous accolades and hon­
ors for their contribution to American music, but more importantly, they can boast a cameo as the folk-rock band playing at the wild west carnival in "Back to the Future Part III." 
At the concert in the Morris on Wednesday, fans can probably expect to hear a repertoire of ZZ Top's hits from all eras, including perennial favorites such as "La Grange," "Sharp Dressed Man" and "Cheap Sunglasses." The opening act will be the Sulentic Brothers Band, a seven-person Southern rock ensemble. They hail from South Bend and have been together for sixteen years. 
This is a chance to see one of the longest-running and finest blues-rock bands in existence -it's a truly American experience. Given the com­plete lack of A-list music acts on campus in recent years, students should jump at this chance. Tickets for the show, which starts at 7:30 p.m., are still available on the Morris Web site, over the phone or at the door of the venue. 
The Morris is also asking concertgoers to bring non-perishable food items for donation to the Food Bank of Northern Indiana, which is currently facing unprecedented need. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 

Photo Courtesy of www.ticketservice.com/html/zz_top.html 
By MAIJA GUSTIN Scene Writer 
It's been five very long years, but No Doubt is finally back in action. 
The southern California hit makers took an all too long hiatus in 2004 during which lead-singer Gwen Stefani embarked on a successful solo career. While Stefani was off Hollaback'in (see "Love.Angel.Music.Baby." for hit single "llollaback Girl") and popping out babies with husband Gavin Rossdale of rock band Bush, the rest of the band -including guitarist Tom Dumont, bassist Tony Kana!, drummer Adrian Young, trumpet/keyboard play­er Stephen Bradley and trombone/key­board player Gabrial McNair-began to work on new material. 
The guys started writing new mate­rial in 2008 while Stefani was on the tail end of a tour to promote her sec­ond album. She was also pregnant with her second child at the time, so things were moving slowly. As of now, this album is still in the works, but it's set for release in 2010. Mark Stent, who helped produce No Doubt's 2004 album "Rock Steady," is the producer. 

The album is sure to be one of the most hotly anticipated releases of 2009. 
This past summer, the fully reunited No Doubt hit the road for their first tour together in almost five years. They toured with opening bands Paramore, The Sounds, Bedouin Soundclash, Katy Perry and Panic at the Disco. 
Unfortunately for fans eagerly awaiting what is sure to be some awe­some new No Doubt material, they didn't have any songs off their new album ready to play. But their set was filled with their greatest classics. Gwen and the guys rocked out to "Spiderwebs," "Hella Good," "Hey Baby," "Running," "Just A Girl" and "Sunday Morning." They also proved they still had a softer side with "Underneath It All," "Rock Steady," "Simple Kind of Life" and "Don't Speak." Particularly with these slower, 

softer songs, No Doubt showed off a newfound maturity that they must have found over the course of their time apart. 
They also brought out one semi-new song, a cover of Adam Ant's "Stand and Deliver." Back in May, No Doubt made a cameo on "Gossip Girl" in which they played this song. It's rumored that it will be appearing on their 2010 album, but these rumors have yet to be confirmed. 
No Doubt's 2009 tour has been receiving great reviews across the country and proved that, even after five years apart, they are all still great performers. Their reckless abandon and palpable energy are infectious. They can also easily transition from their high-octane ''I'm going to jump around while I play my instrument and make it look easy" performances into slower ballads that seem intimate even in a crowd of 20,000. 
However, these moments are gener­ally few and far between, because what No Doubt is good at, more than 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

anything, is writing brilliantly ener­getic, upbeat songs and making them even better live. They have intense chemistry with each other and clearly draw a lot of their performance from each other. During a song on their 2009 tour, Gwen Stefani got down and did pushups as she sang while her band mates went crazy, doing flips mid-song, amongst other crazy antics. 
2009 proved to be a good year for No Doubt, and 2010 will hopefully be even better. They have a great buzz going into their new album. As it seems they've returned to their roots this summer by playing more songs from their older albums "Tragic Kingdom" and "Return to Saturn" on tour, they should put out a great, inventive album. For further listening, check out the songs listed above, and also "Ex-Girlfriend," "New," "Excuse Me Mr.," "That's Just Me," "Open The Gate," "Bathwater," "Different People" and "Hey You." 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
MLB 

Uribe's five RBis fuel Giants in 9-4 vvin over Padres 
Rockies stay two back in wild-card race in win over Reds as Dodgers' Ramirez hits homer, gets ejected in 7-2 win 
after losing 2-1 in 12 innings he's gone at least six. His three 
Associated Press 
Sunday at Milwaukee on Prince runs allowed, though, were the 

SAN FRANCISCO -Pumped­Fielder's game-ending homer. most since July 27 against the up Brad Penny dazzled in his Freddy Sanchez had a pair of Mets in New York. home debut and Juan Uribe singles for the Giants in his Homer Bailey had his start homered twice, tripled and return from the disabled list moved up a day after Justin drove in five runs as the San after missing 19 games with a Lehr couldn't go because of a Francisco Giants beat the San strained left shoulder. slight groin pull. Bailey gave Diego Padres 9-4 on Monday. With Sanchez back at second up one run and five hits in 5 2­
Uribe and Edgar Renteria hit base, Uribe moved to third 3 innings. back-to-hack home runs, help­base and Sandoval to first -a The righty was pulled in the ing the Giants remain two lineup manager Bruce Bochy sixth after his two-out throw­games back of the Rockies in says he may stick with for a ing error put runners on the the NL wild-card race. while. Uribe has been hitting corners. Colorado beat Cincinnati. so well Bochy said he can't Nick Masset came in to face 
Penny (2-0) didn't give up a afford not to keep him in there. pinch-hitter Garrett Atkins, hit until Will Venable's triple and bounced a pitch in the dirt leading off the fifth. The Rockies 4, Reds 3 that dribbled away from catch-. Padres certainly didn't want a Ian Stewart broke a tiebreak­er Corky Miller. Brad Hawpe, repeat of Jonathan Sanchez's ing home run in the eighth trying to score from third, was improbable no-hitter against inning, lifting the Colorado easily thrown out when Miller them here on July 10. Rockies over Cincinnati 4-3 flipped the ball to Masset who 
Penny struck out six and Monday and ending the Reds' was covering home. walked one over seven innings seven-game winning streak. It was the second baserun­in his first start at AT&T Park. The NL wild card-leading ning mistake by the Rockies in He won at Philadelphia in Rockies won their fourth in a the game. In the third, Carlos impressive fashion Wednesday, row despite losing Troy Gonzalez was thrown out try­two days after he signed with Tulowitzki. The smooth-field­ing to score from first on the Giants following his release ing shortstop left in the sev­Helton's RBI single. by Boston. enth after an RBI single Paul Janish led off the fourth 
Adrian Gonzalez hit a tower­because of a strained lower with a single and Joey Votto ing solo home run off Penny in back and was listed as day-to­followed with another, both the sixth, the slugger's second day. moving up when Seth Smith in as many games. Colorado rallied to tie it in bobbled the ball in left. But the 
Gonzalez admired his drive the seventh on a sacrifice fly by Reds almost ran themselves to dead center before starting Todd Helton and a two-out sin­out of a big inning when a slow trot. Penny apparently gle from Tulowitzki. Phillips hit a smash that a took issue with that and After his hit just over the leaping Clint Barmes snared, pumped both arms in the head of second baseman then threw to second to dou­direction of San Diego's dugout Brandon Phillips, Tulowitzki ble-up Votto. two batters later after a called grabbed his lower back. Rolen hit an RBI single just third strike to Venable ended Manager Jim Tracy and trainer over Helton's glove. Gomes the inning. Keith Dugger quickly came out then hit Jimenez's slider into singled and stole second and Dodgers' rotation. 
After the home run, Penny to check on him. Tulowitzki the left-field bleachers, giving third. Pierre added an RBI sin­Padilla gave up six hits and retired the final five batters he lightly jogged down the line, him 18 homers this season. gle in the ninth. struck out three in his second faced. before being replaced by Omar Dodgers right-hander consecutive start against 
Uribe tripled to start the sec­Quintanilla. Dodgers 7, Diamondbacks 2 Jonathan Broxton got a four­Arizona, which scored only one ond and scored on a wild pitch Rafael Betancourt (2-1) Manny Ramirez hit his 17th out save, entering to strike out run off him in 5 1-3 innings of by Clayton Richard (4-2) to put earned the win with a perfect home run of the season before Justin Upton with runners on a no-decision Sept. 1. Padilla the Giants ahead, then home­eighth, while Franklin Morales, being ejected and Los Angeles first and second and two outs beat Colorado in his first start. red in the team's five-run filling in for the injured Huston late-season acquisitions in the eighth inning. Broxton Scherzer gave up four runs third. After Uribe's two-run Street, pitched out of a jam to Vicente Padilla and Ronnie has 33 saves in 38 chances. and six hits in seven innings. shot, Renteria gave San pick up his fourth save in five Belliard contributed to the The Dodgers (82-57) lead the The three homers allowed tied Francisco its fifth set of con­chances. Dodgers' 7-2 victory over the NL West by 3Y2 games with 23 a career high. secutive home runs this sea­Stewart hit his 23rd homer of Arizona Diamondbacks. games to play and remain tied Scherzer and Martin son. the season off reliever Carlos Ramirez hit a solo homer in a with St. Louis for the best exchanged words in the middle 
Uribe hit a three-run shot in Fisher (1-1). The right-handed three-run second inning off record in the National League. of the fourth inning, after the seventh for his eighth Fisher was called up Monday right-hander Max Scherzer (9-Arizona lost its fifth straight Scherzer hit Martin with a career multihomer game. from Single-A Sarasota. 9) but was tossed after flinging game. pitch behind the left shoulder 
Nick Hundley hit a two-run Helton drove in two runs as his bat and helmet to the Diamondbacks outfielder with two outs in the top of the homer off Alex Hinshaw with the Rockies beat the Reds for a ground near home plate after Chris Young hit a two-run inning. That came two batters two outs in the ninth for the sixth straight time. striking out to end the third. home run in the fifth inning off after Belliard's homer gave the Padres. Jonny Gomes had a two-run Belliard and James Loney Padilla to make it 4-2. Dodgers a 4-0 lead. 
Pablo Sandoval and Bengie homer for the Reds, while Scott also hit bases-empty homers Young has 11 homers, four in Martin stared at Scherzer as Molina also drove in runs for Rolen drove in the other run. for the Dodgers, who have won the last two games after hitting he walked toward first base, the Giants, who started off a The Reds had two on and all three starts Padilla (2-0) three bases-empty homers in a escorted by home plate umpire key homestand against the none out in the ninth, but has made joining the rotation 13-5 loss at Colorado on Doug Eddings, and Scherzer division. The first-place Morales got Gomes to fly out Aug. 27. Sunday. The major league took a few steps toward the Dodgers come to town this and then Rolen was thrown out Belliard, acquired from record for homers in two con­base line. The two exchanged weekend followed by the on the back end of a double­Washington on Aug. 30, had secutive games is five, last words on the field after Padilla Rockies early next week. In all, steal attempt. With Phillips on three hits and two RBis, finish­done by the Alex Rodriguez on flew out to end the inning. San Francisco is in a stretch third, Morales struck out ing a triple short of the cycle. Aug. 17-18,2002 with Texas. Then, after Scherzer lined a with 21 of 25 games against NL Darnell McDonald to end the He had an RBI double and Padilla, signed to a minor single to right field to open the West foes -more remaining game. Russell Martin hit a sacrifice league contract Aug. 19 after sixth inning, Dodgers' right against the division than both Ubaldo Jimenez went six fly in two-run eighth inning, being released by Texas on fielder Andre Ethier threw to the Dodgers and Rockies. innings in the no-decision, which began when Juan Aug. 17, is 2-0 with a 2.76 ERA first base in an attempt to get 
San Francisco bounced back marking the 25th straight start Pierre, Ramirez's replacement, in three starts since joining the Scherzer, who made it easily. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus· tamer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574·232­0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
Desperately need season tix/MSU, BC. Call 574·654·0168 local call. 
FoR RENT 
NO vs MSU Weekend, Sept. 18, 19,20. Rooms in Sacred Heart Parish Hall on campus. $400/per person two nights includes game ticket, bed, parking, K of C Smoker, Lunch at Morris Inn tent, etc. All profits go to South Jersey Notre Dame Club Scholarship Fund. Email: Bi11Burns.68@Aiumni.nd.ed or call Bill Burns 609-368-1962. 

ATIN: GRAD STUDENTS/FACUL­TY EXECUTIVE HOUSE 4 RENT. 2BR, 2 1/2 Bath, LR, DR, SunRm, kitchen, washer/dryer, 2-car attached garage + security sys­tems. Close to Notre Dame. Available now. One Year Lease ­Shown By Appt.only. 1-262·332­0015 (Cell). 
PERSONAL 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
Life without death is just impossible Oh, to realize something is ending within us Feeling yourself disintegrate UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. Visit NO s website at: http://pregnancy­support@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu 



OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OssERV:ER's wm.E SERVICES
Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
page 13 

AP San Diego Chargers linebacker Shawne Merriman tosses a towel to a teammate during the Chargers practice on Monday. Merriman was arrested on suspicion of choking and restraining his girlfriend, reality TV star Tila Tequila, on Sunday. 
Chargers' Merriman denies allegations 
NCAA Men's SOcc~~r niSC::M Divisioni•.Ranklng$ ' 
team 

1 Maryland 2 North Carolina 
3 Wake Forest 
4 Akron 
5 St. John's 
6 Creighton 
7 Indiana 
8 California 
9 Northwestern 
10 UIC 
11 South florida 
12 Connecticut 
13 NOTRE DAME 
14 Tulsa 
15 UC Irvine 
16 UC Santa Barbara 
17 Dartmouth 
18 Loyola {Md.} 
19 UClA 
20 Michigan St 
21 St. Louis 22 Michigan 23 Cal Poly 24 Boston U. 25 Louisville 


NCAA Women's Soccer NSOAA 
Division I Rankings  
teatn  
1  North Carolina  
2  NOTRE DAME  
3  Portland  
4  Stantord  
5  Florida St.  
6  fforida  
7  West Virginia  
8  Virginia  
9  UCLA  
10  TexasA&M  
11  Illinois  
12  San Diego  15.  
13  Penn St.  If  
14  Purdue  RV  
15  Colorado  18  
16 17  Boston College Wake Forest  2o Rv···  
18  Georgia  16  
19  Minnesota  17  
20  Oklahoma St.  21  
21  utah  NR  
22  Santa Clara  1.§  
23  Missouri  22  
24  Duke  11  
25  St. John's  NR  

NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Division 1 coaches Poll 
team 

1 Penn St. 2 Texas 3 Washington 4 Hawaii 5 florida 6 Nebraska 7 Michigan 8 Illinois 9 UCLA 10 California 


around the dial 
U.S. Open Tennis 
Men's Round of 16 7 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 
Chicago Cubs at Pittsburgh 7 p.m., CSNCH 
NFL 


Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -San Diego Chargers star outside line­backer Shawne Merriman said he did not harm reality TV star Tila Tequila at his home early Sunday and added he was concerned for her safety because she appeared to be intoxicated. 
Merriman was arrested and accused of choking and throwing Tequila to the ground as she tried to leave his home in suburban Poway. Tequila signed a citi­zen's arrest warrant charg­ing Merriman with battery and false imprisonment. Both are felonies. 
Merriman spent about 21f2 hours in the downtown jail before posting bail. 
IN BRIEF 
Grizzlies owner meets 
with Allen Iverson 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -The owner of the Memphis Grizzlies and the team's staff met with Allen Iverson on Monday, moving closer to a deal bringing the veteran guard to a young team.­
"1 want to help them develop a winner," Iverson said on Twitter on Sunday night. 
The meeting was in Atlanta, where the 34-year-old star has been working out recently with former teammate Eric Snow. The Grizzlies confirmed the meeting but declined to comment further. 
The Grizzlies last season finished 24-58, last in their division. No other NBA team has shown public interest in Iverson. 
The Commercial Appeal newspa­per reported that the Grizzlies have offered the 13-year veteran a one­year contract worth at least $3.5 million. 
Merriman practiced Monday, then said he's con­vinced he'll be cleared. It will ultimately be up to the District Attorney's office to decide if he'll be charged. 
"I think when it all sur­faces, it will be a different situation. Period," said Merriman, who described Tequila as an acquaintance. 
Tequila, whose real name is Tila Nguyen, is best known for "A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila," which ran for two seasons on MTV. The bisexual dating show featured men and women vying for Tequila's affec­tions. She has also modeled for Playboy and other men's magazines. 
Merriman said he was limited in what he could say. 

Mangini kee_ping Browns 
starting QB a secret 
BEREA, Ohio -Brady Quinn and Derek Anderson still don't know who won their competition. The Vikings are in the dark, too. 
Cleveland's starting quarterback remains Eric Mangini's secret. And he'll keep it as long as he can. 
Mangini has finally made his choice between Quinn and Anderson, but the Browns' first-year coach declined to identify who will start Sunday's season opener against Minnesota. On Monday, he said won't reveal who will open at QB anytime between now and kickoff. 
"In terms of announcing it publicly, that's not something I plan to do," he said. "It will be internal. I under­stand everybody has a different opinion on it. I respect that. I under­stand the excitement in relationship to that and I respect that as well. But that will be something that will be internal." 
He kept referring to a state­ment issued through his attorney Sunday night. 
"At the time, I was con­cerned about her welfare given the intoxicated state she appeared to be in and I encouraged her to stay until safe transportation could be provided," Merriman said in the statement. "We would all do our best to help a friend if we considered their actions to be detrimental to their personal safety. 
"I in no way caused any harm to Ms. Nguyen, how­ever, paramedics were called and she was exam­ined but no injuries were reported," the statement continued. 
"It's kind of a tough situa­tion where you think you're 
DL Seymour hasn't reported 
to Raiders following trade 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -Five-time Pro Bowl defensive lineman Richard Seymour did not report to the Oakland Raiders on Monday, a day after being acquired in a trade with the New England Patriots. 
Raiders coach Tom Cable said after practice that Seymour had to resolve some things with the Patriots before the deal for a first-round pick in 2011 could be finalized. 
"We have attempted to make a deal," Cable said Monday. "There are some issues still between him and the Patriots that are being worked out. I'm hoping that that will get resolved as quickly as possible. We know that the player wants to be here, but we have really no control over those issues." 
Patriots spokesman Stacey James said he was unaware of any difficulties surrounding the trade, which was announced by New England on Sunday and confirmed by Cable. 
doing the right thing," Merriman said Monday. 'Tm glad that everyone was safe at the end of the day. I don't think I will regret that part." 
Asked if he threw Tequila to the ground, the 6-foot-4, 265-pound Merriman said: "No. I can't talk about any of that stuff." 
Scott E. Leemon, an attor­ney for Tequila, didn't respond to an e-mail asking for comment on Merriman's statement. 
Also Monday, the owner of a downtown club where Merriman and Tequila attended a party Saturday night said his staff told him Tequila had been drinking and it appeared Merriman had ordered only bottled water. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
MLB 

Pirates clinch 17th-consecutive losing season in 4-2 loss 
Astros complete four-game sweep of NL East-leading Phillies in 4-3 win on back of Pence's three RBis 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH The Pittsburgh Pirates' not-so-magic number is zero, or the number of winning teams they've had during a record-setting run of futility over 17 forgettable sea­sons. 
The Chicago Cubs assured the Pirates of an unwanted place in baseball's record book, getting two homers from Derrek Lee and an effective start from Ted Lilly while beating the last-place Pirates 4-2 on Monday. 
By losing their lOth in 11 games, the Pirates are guaran­teed of finishing below .500, just as they have every season since 1993. The 17 consecutive losing seasons represent the longest streak for any team in the four major North American pro team sports, and only the Phillies (1933-48) have also had as many as 16 in a row. 
The Vancouver Canucks (NHL, 1976-91) and Kansas City/Sacramento Kings (NBA, 1983-98) had 15 consecutive losing seasons each and the NFL's Tampa Bay Buccaneers had a 14-year streak (1983-96). 
"We can't ignore it and say it didn't happen," said manager John Russell, whose team was dismantled by the trading of five everyday players since opening day. "We're not accepting it. We're making moves to make sure we build a championship team, and we want that to hap­pen as soon as possible." 
The present-day Pirates (54­
82) are a mix of prospects and lower-paid players, and most were oblivious to the signifi­cance of the loss. Rookie start­ing pitcher Daniel McCutchen (0-1) didn't realize his first career loss would be the Pirates' 1,501st since the streak began, the season after former Pirates star Barry Bonds left to sign with the Giants. 
In the opposing dugout, the Cubs' Lou Piniella remembered managing in Cincinnati against Bonds-led Pirates teams that averaged 96 wins from 1990-92. 
"There isn't any team that wants to lose," said Piniella, whose own team hasn't won the World Series since 1908. "Some are a little more fortunate, some have more money to spend, some of them draft better play­ers. But I'm sure this organiza­tion in the near future will start winning with more regularity. It would be great for the National League and the fans here, they've had a lot of history here and success in the past to draw on." 
No recent success, for sure. The Pirates have been in a rebuilding mode under three owners, four general managers and six managers since the streak began, but no team fin­ished better than four games under .500. 
Fittingly, the song "Money for Nothing" was played during one inning break, which befits a team that has spent about a half billion dollars on salaries since 1993 yet has fielded only one team that went into September with an opportunity to win a division title. 
Given that the Pirates' top tal­ent is mostly in the minor leagues, it's conceivable the streak won't end in the next year or two. 
"Setting a major league mark for losing hurts and it hits par­ticularly hard for us because everyone in this organization is extraordinarily proud to be a part of a franchise that has such a long and rich history of win­ning," team president Frank Coonelly said. 
A franchise that won five World Series from 1909-79 and sent 13 players to the Hall of Fame did not publicly mention the dubious record, and there were few eyewitnesses ­14,673 -on a drizzly Labor Day. The loss was the Pirates' 24th in their last 30 games against the Cubs, one of the majors' most disappointing teams this season. 
Except against the Pirates, who are 2-7 against the Cubs. 
Lee hit his 30th homer into the center field shrubbery with two out in the first, then hit his 31st into the front row of the left-field bleachers two innings lp,ter after Ryan Theriot's two­out single. It was Lee's second multiple-homer game in three days and the 22nd of his career. 
"It's been a good few days," Lee said. "I definitely have been feeling good at the plate. It seems when I get a pitch, it's been going out of the ballpark." 
McCutchen (0-1) has allowed three homers since being pro­moted to the majors on Aug. 31, each on a first pitch. 
Lilly (11-8) needed 86 pitches over six innings to win for the first time in his last six road starts, with the left-bander and relievers John Grabow, Angel Guzman and Carlos Marmol combining on a two-hitter. Lilly gave up both hits, struck out seven and walked one. 
Marmol pitched the ninth for his lOth save in 14 opportuni­ties. 
Andy LaRoche hit his eighth homer in the third and Brandon Moss doubled in a run in the fifth, but they couldn't prevent the Pirates from being mathe­matically eliminated in the NL Central race. 
Astros 4, Phillies 3 
Hunter Pence homered and drove in three runs as the 


Moehler walked Ibanez and Jayson Werth with two outs in the sixth and Sammy Gervacio relieved. Pedro Feliz walked on four pitches to load the bases, but Gervacio got Carlos Ruiz to fly out. 
Moyer retired 11 in a row after Geoff Blum's single in the second inning. 
Bourn led off the Houston sixth with a line-drive single up the middle that Moyer ducked to avoid. Moyer retired the next three hitters to wrap up his 101­pitch outing. 
Wesley Wright (3-2) replaced Gervacio in the seventh. He gave up a double to Jimmy Rollins, but got the fmal two outs. 
Houston Astros completed a four-game sweep of the Philadelphia Phillies with a 4-3 win Monday over the NL East leaders. 
Pence hit a two-run homer and an RBI double for the Astros, who've won eight of their last nine home games. Michael Bourn drew a bases­loaded walk from Chan Ho Park to force home the go-ahead run in the seventh inning. 
Jose Valverde pitched a per­fect ninth for his 22nd save in 26 chances. 
Ryan Howard and Raul Ibanez hit back-to-hack homers in the fourth against Houston starter Brian Moehler. Howard also drove in a run with a first­inning single. 

Jamie Moyer became the Phillies' last-minute starter when J.A. Happ was unable to pitch because of a right oblique strain. Moyer got a no-decision after allowing two runs and three hits in six innings. 
With the Phillies leading 1-0, Moyer walked Miguel Tejada in the second and Pence drove a full-count pitch over the railroad tracks in left, his third home run of the series. 
Howard and Ibanez homered in the fourth, the second time this season the two sluggers have connected in consecutive at-bats. 

Pewi'~rmances btl.: 
· Flrst Class Steppers 
Voice of faith Gospel Choir The Irish Dance Team Of Notre Dame/ St. Mary's Filipino-American Student Organization Com Primavera de Nuestra Senora And others... 
When: Sept~mb~r 10, 2009 
..t;pm 

Tuesday, September 8, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
AL HR-leader Pena breaks two fingers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Tampa Bay slugger Carlos Pena broke two fingers when he was hit by a CC Sabathia pitch in the open­er of Monday's day-night dou­
bleheader  against  the  
Yankees.  
Pena was  hurt on  an 0-1  

offering in the first inning of a 4-1 loss, with the ball hitting his left hand and then his bat. 
"I knew when the ball hit me it was going to be bad," he said. "You don't take a 95 mph fastball on the finger and live to tell about it -or the finger live to tell about it." 
Pena broke the middle and index fingers. He will return to Florida on Tuesday and meet with the Rays medical staff before .a determination is made whether he needs sur­gery. 
Pena leads the AL with 39 homers and finished with 100 RBis. 
"I was crushed," he said. "It felt like you had taken my heart, thrown it around and stepped on it. That hurt more than the hit by pitch itself. I was really very much looking forward to the next three weeks. I wanted to keep put­ting it out there, tying to do the best I could. Now I have to wait another year." 
Pena didn't even get to take first. He initially headed up the line, but plate umpire Jim Wolf checked with third base umpire Fieldin Culbreth, who signaled Pena had swung. 
Pena was examined by trainer Ron Porterfield and manager Joe Maddon for sev­eral minutes, remained in the game and had a check swirig for strike three. He held his hand as he walked from the plate and was replaced at first in the bottom half by Willy Aybar. 
"When I was taking the dry swings, I knew it was bad, but I thought I could handle the pain. When I had the check swing, you know you have to stop all that weight. It really hurt," he said. "When I saw the X-rays, it was obvious that it was broken, almost in half." 
A year after its surprise run to the AL East title, Tampa Bay has faded from con­tention. The Rays have lost five straight, matching their season high, and began the day seven games behind wild card-leading Boston. 
Now they've lost their top power threat. 
"It's very discouraging," Maddon said. "He was swing­ing the bat about as well as anyone I've seen this season." 
Tampa Bay put Pena on the 60-day disabled list and pur­chased the contract of Chris Richard from Triple-A Durham. Richard was en route to Yankee Stadium, try­ing to get there for Monday night's game. 
"It may be a close call, buf that's what we're trying to do," Tampa Bay executive vice president Andrew Friedman said. 
NHL 

Money troubles rrtire Coyotes deal 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX-Two studies con­ducted for the NHL set a poten­tial relocation fee of $101 mil­lion to $195 million to move the Phoenix Coyotes to Hamilton, Ontario. 
The figures are listed in a -lengthy brief filed over the weekend in the bitter fight in 
U.S. Bankruptcy Court over ownership of the franchise. 
The potential fees are in stark contrast to the $11.2 mil-. lion to $12.9 million cited by economics professor Andrew Zimbalist in a study conducted for Canadian billionaire James Balsillie. Balsillie, co-CEO of the company that makes the Blackberry, wants to buy the franchise for $212.5 million, contingent on moving it to Hamilton. 
The NHL made a last-minute bid of $140 million to purchase the team and keep it in Arizona. 
The team is to be sold at auc­tion on Thursday, but many legal issues have yet to be resolved. ­
The league, in determining a potential relocation fee, cited studies conducted for the NHL by the Barrett Sports Group and Sports Value Consulting. 
The Barrett study concludes that the franchise in Hamilton would be worth $261.8 million to $279.8 million. Sports Value's figure was a whopping $315 million. 
Meanwhile, Barrett said the Coyotes in Glendale would be worth $163 million to $176 million and Sports Value places the figure at $120 million. 
The NHL refuses to consider the possible relocation of the franchise, however, because its the money Moyes lost is not a board of governors voted 26-0 debt but equity. They also want with three abstentions against Moyes' claim subordinated to Balsillie as an owner. that of other creditors. 

The Canadian wants Judge The city also is arguing Redfield T. Baum to overrule against a $22.5 million claim that NHL rejection and allow by Wayne Gretzky, the Coyotes the team to move to Hamilton coach who owns a small share over the league's objection. of the franchise. Balsillie also. is asking the Moyes' attorneys were criti­judge to set a reasonable relo~·"•_cal of the tone of the court fil­cation fee if the NHL refuses to ings by Glendale and the NHL. do so. "The city's -and, for that 
The NHL, in its filing, said matter, the NHL's -continued that even $195 million would vilification of all the parties not begin to address the true involved contributes nothing to damages done to the league by this issue," the Moyes docu­such a move. ment said. 
"No relocation fee or indem-Not only has Baum yet to rule nity payment (regardless of the on the ownership and reloca­amount) could compensate the tion issues, he also hasn't NHL" if the court takes away decided whether Balsillie can the board of governors' ability get out of the Coyotes' lease to to determine who owns a team play at Jobing.com Arena, and where it plays, the NHL which was built by Glendale for said. $183 million specifically for the 
The league contends there is hockey team. no precedent for such a court A third potential buyer, Ice ruling. Edge, has said it would spend 
The NHL said Balsillie and up to $150 million to buy the the debtors group headed by team, contingent on reaching Coyotes owner Jerry Moyes agreement with the city of "want this court to create revo-Glendale on a new lease. The lutionary new legal and equi-NHL has yet to vote on Ice table principles in order to get Edge as a potential owner. more money into the hands of The Coyotes _are being funded Mr. Moyes and an NHL fran-by the NHL during the owner­chise in the hands of Mr. ship fight. Balsillie wants to Balsillie in Hamilton, Ontario." move the team immediately if 
Meanwhile, attorneys for the purchase is successful but Moyes said in a court docu-offered in court last week to ment that the NHL's solution is start the season in Glendale, simple -just add $80 million then move as quickly as possi­to the league's bid. That would ble. NHL officials have make the NHL's bid the largest. ridiculed that idea. 
However, the league and the Balsillie also offered to play a city of Glendale don't want to season in Glendale if the league give Moyes very little, if any-splits the losses. thing. Moyes would get $104 Commissioner Gary Bettman million under Balsillie's bid. said the NHL isn't interested in The. league and city contend that idea. 


The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institutefor Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
4"The Ethical Implications of the Recent Financial Crisis'" 
Presenter:. 

John Russell., Relative Value Partners., Chicago and former Salomon Brothers and Citicorp executive. 
Faculty respondents: 
Jerry Langley., Department ofFinance 

Rev.. Oliver Williams., C ..S ..C ..., Director of the Center for 
Ethics and Religious Values in Business.. 
Moderator: 

Patrick E. Murphy., Co-Director., Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. 
Wednesday., September 9., 2009 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
----------------------------------~ 
L______________________________________________________________________________________________ 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
FORMULA ONE 
Fisichella not planning to replace injured Massa 
Associated Press 
FIORANO, Italy -Giancarlo Fisichella made it clear that he has no plan to become a full­time replacement for injured driver Felipe Massa at Ferrari. 
"I spoke with Massa by phon~ and he told me he's very happy for me and that I was the right choice," Fisichella said Monday during his introduction as a Ferrari driver for the final five races of the Formula One sea­son. 
"I responded that I'm very sorry about what happened to him and told him to get better soon. 'Whenever you want your car come and take it because this is yours. I just hope I can do what ·you would have done,"' Fisichella recounted, according to the ANSA news agency. 
Massa is not expected to return until next season after an accident almost cost him his life at the Hungarian GP. 
Ferrari's longtime test driver Luca Badoer filled in for Massa in the first two races after the accident but qualified last and finished no better than 14th, prompting the team to hire Fisichella from Force India last week. 
"I began my career with Minardi in 1996 and after near­ly 14 years I had pretty much given up hope of driving a Ferrari, so I'm filled with hap­piness and pride now," Fisichella said. 
Only one Formula One col­league called Fisichella after the move -former Ferrari driver Rubens Barrichello. 
"He congratulated me. We've been good friends since we were 14," said Fisichella, whose first call after the move was to his father Hoberto, a mechanic in Home. 
"He's my No. 1 fan and he was waiting anxiously. He kept on asking me and I didn't know what to tell him," Fisichella said. "It was one of the most beautiful moments of our lives." 
Fisichel\a will get his Ferrari debut on home soil at the Italian Grand Prix in Monza this weekend. 
"I've been racing there since 1992 when I was in Formula Three," he said. "It's a track I know well." 

NASCAR 

Patrick ponders options 
Associated Press 

CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. -It doesn't take a rocket scien­tist to figure out Danica Patrick plans to give NASCAH a try. 
After all, why would she use her summer vacation to tour North C a rolin a r·ace shops if she had no inten­tion of trying out stock cars'? She's twice been to Tony Stewart's place and visited 5hops owned by Joe Gibbs, Richard Childress, Jack Housh and Michael Waltrip. 
She's sought advice from Chip Ganassi, who owns both IndyCar and NASCAH teams, and last week spent time with Stewart, who has driver championships in both series. 
It's an awful lot of fact­finding for a driver simply trying to leverage a more lucrative contract in IndyCar, a series desperate to keep its most marketable driver. So it's not a question of if Patrick plans a foray into full-bodied cars. It's a matter of wiHm, where and, most important, how? 

What is clear is that a· fast-track move to the pre­mier Sprint Cup Series is not in Patrick's best inter­est. There doesn't seem to be a top-tier tflam with the financing to give her that opportunity. And even if it were feasible, • Dario Franchitti's failed 2008 ven-. ture into stock ears showed most team owners that driv­ers need to ease into such a transition. 
Juan Pablo Montoya, of course, moved quickly into the Cup after a handful of lower-level races. But the former Formula One star is a unique talent, and even with his skills it's taken him nearly three full years to 


after bruising shoulder
SALON ROUGE 
Salon Rouge would like to welcome you back to the Notre Dame campus. We've missed you! As a student you receive a 15% discount on hair services·Monday through Wednesday with your student 10. Or, check 
out our apprentice program. All cuts are $10.00 with an apprentice stylist and color is 1/2 price! Call to schedule your appointment today. 
Clot>e to Campus Manicures & f edicures Specializing in Color & Cuts Now Qfferi~;~~Fullt)od_y Waxing 
VIsit our new second location! SR z; ® Ironwood 
Forme..ly Atria 2 
57+-258-5080 57+-271-8804­620 W. E_dit>on R.d. 2027 South {)end Ave. St. Andrew's flaza Martin's flaza 
•t 5% di5c0unt not valid with apprentice program 

become consistently com­petitive. 
Same goes for Sam Hornish Jr., the three-time IndyCar Series champion who is still trying to find his footing in NASCAH. Although he's probably the most improved driver of 2009, Hornish still has only six top-1 Os in 61 starts to show for his fledgling NASCAH career. 
So Patrick is most certain­ly headed back to IndyCar next season for a full sched­ule and a run at the cham­pionship. ller time in NASCAH will likely be built around her full-time job, and the rigors of trying to l'igure out a stock car should lead to some sched­uling nightmares. 
She 'II need testing, and lots of it. And that's going to require carving out a chunk of time in an already-busy schedule of public appear­ances, promotions, market­ing, ·and, of course, racing. 
Patrick will also need to l'ind a NASCAH team with a good deal of time and money to spend on driver development. Ganassi spent carefully on Montoya's training in the AHCA and Nationwide Series, and Hoger Penske showed con­siderable patience in bring­ing Hornish along. 
Finding the perfect match is not easy. Stewart seems the ideal candidate to men­tor the darling of American racing. 
"I can pretty much guar­antee at some point she's going to be over here," Stewart said last weekend at Atlimta Motor Speedway. 
"She's looked me straight in the eye and said, 'Hey, this is what I want to do. It looks like fun. It looks like a lot of work, but it looks like fun. She doesn't have some misguided idea that it's going to be easy doing it. She wants to do it the right way. She has the intention of doing everything right." 
But a deal with Stewart­Haas Hacing isn't a slam dunk. 
For starters, Stewart doesn't even have a Nationwide Series team right now. Since that's where Patrick should start, Stewart would either have to quickly put a team together or align with an owner who currently has a suitable program. The latter isn't difficult -he could partner with Kevin Harvick Inc. or JH Motorsports, two teams that enjoy giving upstart drivers seat time. Plus, Stewart already drives some for KHI and is to race for JRM later this season. 
Then there's a question of financing. Although Stewart has done very well in his first season as NASCAR team co-owner, he still has­n't sold all of teammate Hyan Newman's Cup car. 
And there's Stewart press­ing list of priorities: Get Newman into the Chase, become the first driver/owner to win a cham­pionship since Alan Kulwicki in 1992 and con­tinue bringing in new part­ners since somebody has to pay the bills on all his ven­tures. · 
Of course, none of that rules Stewart out of the mix. He'd love to pull off a deal with Patrick and add that to his growing resume of business projects. 
In some shape or form, she's on her way, and it may be as soon as next year. Putting together the right package to bring her to NASCAR won't be easy, but somebody is going to figure it out. And soon. 

MLB 
Kershaw to tn.iss start 
www.salonrougeinc.com Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Los Angeles Dodgers left-hander Clayton Kershaw was scratched from his scheduled Friday start after bruising his right shoul­
.­

der during pregame warmups before Sunday's game. 
Kershaw, 8-8 with a 2.89 EHA, ran into an auxiliary scoreboard in Dodger Stadium while shagging fly balls during batting practice. 
"I wish it didn't happen. It was one of those freak things. I feel bad. I kind of feel like I'm letting the team down a little bit by missing a start," said Kershaw, whose ERA is ninth in the NL. 
"It is obviously pretty disap­pointing. It's rPally frustrating, too. At the same time, it is what it is. I just have to get better now." 
The Dodgers did not immedi­ately announce their starter Friday, when they open a three-game series at San Francisco. 
Left-bander Randy Wolf, scheduled to start Saturday, is a likely candidate. Dodgers manager Joe Torre said he planned to use a six-man rota­tion this week after the recent acquisitions of Vicente Padilla and Jon Garland, so Wolf would be pitching on five days' rest if he started Friday. 
Asked if he will miss only one start, Kershaw said, "that's the plan. It's my right shoulder, so whenever I can tolerate the pain, I'll be good to go." 
Kershaw collided with the fiberglass edge of a field-level scoreboard. 
"There's no issue throwing­wise. The only issue for me is if he reaches for a ball," Torre said. 
"I wasn't running really hard, but at the same time if you don't something is there and you run into it, you don't brace for it at all," Kershaw said. 

Tuesday, September 8, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
PGA 
Stricker's 17-under vvins Deutsche Bank in vvild finish 
Associated Press 
NORTON, Mass. -Steve Stricker can build a strong case for the Deutsche Bank Championship as the biggest victory of his career. 
It was his first win with Tiger Woods in the tournament. His third victory of the season moved him up to a career-high No. 2 in the world ranking. And he replaced Woods atop the FedEx Cup standings. 
What satisfied Stricker the most, however, was how he won. 
In a wild Labor Day finish on the TPC Boston, where a half­dozen players came to the par­S 18th hole with hopes of win­ning, Stricker finished with back-to-back birdies for a 4­under 6 7 and a one-shot victo­ry Monday. 
"Knowing I had to make a couple of birdies and actually doing it means a lot," he said. 
The names kept changing atop the leaderboard through­out the back nine, and Stricker only found comfort from seeing his name in the mix. Jason Dufner was the first player to break out of the tie with a two­putt birdie on the 18th. Standing in the 17th fairway, Stricker heard another cheer through the trees and figured it was Scott Verplank making birdie -his fourth in a row ­to tie for the lead. 
That's when Stricker took over. 
He knocked in a 15-foot birdie on the 17th, helped by getting a good read on the tricky putt from Retief Goosen. Then, he split the middle of the 18th fairway and hit a hybrid just over the green. He hit a delicate chip to tap-in range for the win. 
"It was a tough day. There was a lot of guys in the mix," Stricker said. "And I just found a way to get it done." 
Stricker finished at 17-under 267 and earned $1.35 million. He also built a 909-point lead over Woods in the FedEx Cup with two tournaments remain­ing. Because the points are reset after next week in Chicago, Stricker is assured of being no worse than the No. 2 seed in the Tour Championship with a chance to win the $10 million prize. 
"It's been a blast, and I want to keep riding it out," Stricker said, his voice cracking. His only failure Monday was win­ning a PGA Tour event and try­ing to get through an interview without crying. This makes him 0 for 7. 
Dufner, who had to go through two stages of Q-school last year, two-putted from 40 feet for birdie at a 65 to become the first player to post at 16-under 268. Verplank birdied his last four holes, and his eagle putt from the fringe grazed the edge of the cup. He wound up with a 67 and thought he might be headed for a playoff. 
About the only player not in the mix was Woods, although he set the tone for the wild fin­ish by tying a tournament record with a 30 on the front nine and getting within one shot of the leaders -even though they were still on the range-until settling for a 63. 
His early departure didn't make it easier on anyone, not with five major champions among the top 10. 
"I knew that Strick would be tough to catch today," Verplank said. "He's not Tiger, but you know what? He may be the second-best player, at least on this tour. The guy is really playing good. So I knew he was going to be tough to catch. And it turns out he was." 
Padraig Harrington recov­ered from two poor drives that cost him three penalty strokes and had a chance to join Dufner and Verplank until he narrowly missed a 10-foot eagle putt. He shot 68 and tied for fourth with Masters cham­pion Angel Cabrera, who 


AP Steve Stricker pumps his fist after making a birdie on the 18th hole to win the Deutsche Bank Championship. Stricker's win put his FedEx Cup lead over Tiger Woods at 909 points. 
missed the 18th fairway and made par for a 65; and Dustin Johnson, who failed to get up­and-down from behind the 18th green and shot 66. 
It was the fourth time in five weeks that Harrington, winless since his PGA Championship last year, had a chance in the final round. He had a one-shot lead going to the back nine until hooking his tee shot into a hazard on the lOth, and hook­ing another tee shot on the 12th for a lost ball. 
''I'm disappointed with today because it was in my control," said Harrington. "I was leading the tournament, and going into the back nine it was mine to lose. And I lost it. I'll feel this one a lot more than some of the others." 
Woods also was part of the fun, although briefly. 

"Certainly, from where I was at, I couldn't win the tourna­ment, even if I shot 60 or something like that," Woods said. 
Really, the only suspense was whether he could go after a 59, and that ended with a par on the 16th. Woods bogeyed the next hole and had to settle for his best score of the year. He tied for 11th, five shots behind. 
When he left, the tournament began. 
With so much noise from so many birdies, Stricker was plodding along with pars on the back nine, wanting only to hit greens and give himself birdie chances. He waited until the end to deliver. 
It was quite a change from last week, when Stricker 
missed a 10-foot par putt on the 18th hole at The Barclays to force a playoff. That loss stung, but not for long. 
Asked if it was gratifying to bounce back one week later and have another putt on the 18th hole, Stricker laughed. 
"This one was more my length, I'll tell you that," he said. "I liked this 1-footer." 
Stricker also won the open­ing playoff event in 2007, and he now has had 28 of 40 rounds in the 60s during this postseason bonanza. Told that he had replaced Woods atop the FedEx Cup standings, Stricker put it all in perspec­tive. 
"We're taking up space in his world," he said. "But I'm thrilled to death to be playing how I'm playing." 

NFL 

Butkus says Bears' 'D' is key 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. -The way Dick Butkus sees it, Jay Cutler would be "in Canada some­where" had he tried to force George Halas to trade him. 
The Hall of Fame linebacker also believes his former team won't go anywhere unless the defense holds up. Oh sure, having a franchise quarterback helps, but what happens on the other side of the ball will determine whether the Chicago Bears get back to the playoffs. 
"If they don't improve from last year, I don't know if God could really help them at quarterback," Butkus said Monday in a phone interview. 
In Chicago, many fans consider the new rocket-armed quarter­back a gift from above. 
The Bears had been searching for a franchise player at that position since the Sid Luckman era when they made the trade for Cutler following his fallout with the Broncos. Suddenly, expecta­tions soared. Chicago is eyeing another playoff run after going 9­7 and missing the postseason for the second straight year. 

That means, all eyes -or most eyes -are on the Pro Bowl quarterback. Butkus has at least one trained on the other side of the ball, where the defense is try­ing to recapture some of the dominant form that spurred a playoff appearance in 2005 and a run to the Super Bowl in 2006. 
Since then, there have been a long line of breakdowns in health and execution, resulting in mediocre play -particularly against the pass. 
The Bears ranked 30th in that area a year ago, with the second­ary struggling and the line failing to produce enough pressure. Coach Lovie Smith decided changes were in order, so he took the play-calling duties from Bob Babich while hiring defensive line coach Rod Marinelli and defensive backs coach Jon Hoke. But the shakeup probably won't matter much if linebacker Brian Urlacher, defensive tackle Tommie Harris and Charles Tillman are limited by injuries. 
The good news for the Bears is that Urlacher was able to gear his offseason routine toward con­ditioning rather than rehabilita­tion, as he did a year ago follow­ing neck surgery. Harris remains a bit of a question mark after battling knee and hamstring problems the past few years. His participation in the preseason was limited, and Tillman prac­ticed Monday for the first time since back surgery in July. 
An effective Harris draws opponents' attention and takes the pressure off the rest of the line, which in turn helps the defensive backs. Even so, Butkus wouldn't pin the Bears' chances on him. 
"When I was watching the Bears that Super Bowl year on TV and when I'm following the set and the camera is following the play," Butkus said, "and there's a fumble by the receiver and Tommie Harris is there recovering a fumble, it's telling me that this guy plays fast. And he's all over the place. I was look­ing forward to seeing him do that last year, but he was nowhere to be found." 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
Floyd 
continued from page 20 
from a defender for another and screened a third to catch a bullet pass from Clausen. 
"He just makes plays every time the ball's thrown to him." Clausen said after the game. 
Floyd caught 48 balls for 719 yards last season and had 10 touchdowns. He missed two games due to injury. 
Clausen didn't disappoint either, and was one of four players nominated for the AT&T All-America Player of the Week. He completed 15 of 18 passes for 315 yards and four touchdowns Saturday. 
When asked to compare Clausen to former Irish quar­terback Brady Quinn, Irish coach Charlie Weis said the two were close. 
''I'd have to say, based off of my off-field work with him in the spring leading into the season that it's at least com­parable, if not heading with the arrow pointing up," Weis said. 
Clausen passed for 3,172 yards last season and threw 25 touchdowns with a 60.9 percent completion rate. He missed Floyd for a few games because of an injury, howev­er, and it hampered the offense. 
"You know, Golden (Tate) was pretty much the only one out there with Kyle (Rudolph) and everything," Clausen said after the game. "They could do a lot of different things, double Kyle and Golden." 
Brown 
continued from page 20 
helps when the majority of the team is upperclassmen rather than underclassmen. It's always really good when you can get the freshmen in there too, but I think the sen­iors and leadership are the biggest factors." 
Notre Dame (3-3) has had its ups and downs in the early part of the season, highlighted by a 3-0 sweep of No. 5 Stanford on Aug. 29 at home as part of the Shamrock Invitational. 
Each of the team's three losses. two of which came this weekend in Cincinnati at the Xavier Invitational, has been a sweep as well. 
"It's very, very early in the season and obviously we would have liked to do better las·t weekend but we're learning a lot, we're making good progress," Brown said. 
A noticeable feature of the team's play so far is the fact that each player has a clear­ly defined and distinct role. It is clear from the early sta­
tistics  that  each  player  
knows her place well.  
Senior  outside  hitter  

Serinity Phillips and sopho­more outside hitter Kristen Dealy lead the team in kills with 62 and 60, respectively; senior setter Jamel Nicholas leads in assists with an 
Clausen said learning the timing of the routes with his receivers helped him devel­op. 
"That's one of the main things why I can throw the ball like I do," Clausen said. "The timing of routes and just knowing that the receivers know where I'm going to throw the ball, and I know where they're going to be on certain plays." 
Clausen felt comfortable enough with his play that he told Weis to play redshirt freshman quarterback Dayne Crist in the second half. 
"Actually Jimmy and I talked about it first. I said, 'Hey, I can keep you in for another series, but I think we should go with Crist here,' and he says, 'I agree. Let's put him in there,"' Weis said. 
Clausen was nominated along with Missouri quarter­back Blaine Gabbert, UCLA safety Rahim Moore and Baylor linebacker Joe Pawelek. Fans can vote for the winner, which will be announced Thursday, by tex­ting VOTE to 345345. 
Despite Clausen's perform­ance, Weis said he wouldn't get too excited yet because the Irish travel to Michigan Saturday. 
"He's playing pretty well right now," Weis said. "But he knows that now we've got to go on the road to the Big House, and he knows he's [sic] going to be a formidable challenge, and you're not going to just throw up 85 percent every time you go out there." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
astonishing 211; junior mid­die blocker Kellie Sciacca leads in blocks with 14; and sophomore libero Frenchy Silva leads the team in digs with 50. All what one would expect from these position players, and when it all gets put together these roles only add to the team chemistry. 
"It's early in the season and roles are becoming defined," Brown said. "I think there are always roles to change and different peo­ple to emerge but I think the team understands that in order to be successful every­one needs to accept their roles." 
The Irish have two more invitational tournaments before beginning Big East play at Connecticut on Sept. 
25. Brown reiterated the importance of her upper­classmen in preparing for the rest of the season. 
"I think when you have as many seniors as we do and the strong leadership that we have, I think that's the most significant factor for us to have a successful season," she said. "It's going to get tougher and tougher but we're going to be ready." 
The upcoming season will have many more tests. but in 
one  area  the  Irish  have  
shown they are  totally pre­ 
pared.  

Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Powers 
continued from page 20 
national scene. He played on the under-18 team for a small amount of time before joining the under-20. 
"Every time I play with the [under-20] team I learn something new, I get the best quality of soccer you can possibly find for our age," Powers said. "Some of the best professional play­ers have played in the [under-20] World Cup ... I'll get to see future stars, and be among them." 
According to a press release on the U.S. Soccer Web site. the team will leave for Larnaca, Cyprus on Sept. 14 and will play a tune-up against Australia before traveling to Suez. The first World Cup game will be against Germany on Sept. 26. The United States plays in Group C in the first round of the Cup, and their other opponents in the group are Cameroon on Sept. 29 and Korea Republic on Oct. 2. 
"We have a pretty tough group," Maund said. ''I'm 

really excited to get over important it is to us. He there and see where we are played in two World Cups, as a country. Germany is so he's kind of been there, the best done that. He [under-201 has been help­team in the ing us prepare
''I'm really excited to
world. I'm mentally and
get over there and
excited to try physically." to win the see where we are as Of 24 world over national
a country. Germany is 
that we are a squads at the
the best [under-20] 
soccer coun­World Cup, all try." team in the world. " but eight will Both players advance to agreed that The Round of
Aaron Maund
their time in 16, which will 
Irish defender
Egypt can take place 
only help them grow as players and in turn can help the Irish. 
"There's only eight play­ers on the U.S. team who are in college right now," Powers said. "And two of us go to Notre Dame. 
"You just try to get better and bring that back to school with you," he added. 
The two also agreed that Clark was very supportive of their roles on the U.S. team. 
"He's really understand­ing," Maund said. "It's tough to lose two players in the middle of the season, but he understands how 
Oct. 5-7. The 
quarterfinals are set for Oct. 9-10, with the semifinals to follow on Oct. 13. The championship match and third-place game are scheduled for Oct. 16. 
The two will be back when the U.S. team either wins the Championship or is eliminated from the tour­nament. 
"I just really want to win over there," Maund said. "Then come back, help the team, [and] help us win the national championship." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Slean 
continued from page 20 
ing to stifle opposing attacks. Ronayne had a goal and an assist as well last season. 
Possibly the most important returning senior for Saint Mary's is goalkeeper Patty Duffy who started 14 games last season. Duffy recorded an astounding 81 saves last season and already has 23 saves in just three games so far this season. 
Seniors Micki Bedinger and competition at the Centre College tournament where they dropped two decisions to Centre and Transylvania. 
The team will host the Saint Mary's Invitational where it is scheduled to meet Otterbein and Manchester in an exhibi­tion tournament Sept. 11-13. 
The Belles will begin their MIAA conference season looking to improve on last season's 1-8 record when they travel to Adrian College Sept. 30. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker I @nd.edu 

Sam Smogor give the Belles a very experienced duo on the attacking side of the field. Bedinger was second on the team with three goals last season and notched two assists. Smogor pitched in a goal and an assist of her own. 
The Belles got off to a fast start after knocking off Holy Cross 3-0 in the first game of the season. Senior Katy Durkin showed the team's depth and versatility by com­ing off the bench to score a goal. 
Saint Mary's ran into stiffer 



Tuesday, September 8, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
66 Done 
67 Molten flow 
68 ·•uve Free·­
(New Hampshire motto) 69 Take from the top 70 Noted garden site 
71 President born onAugust4, whose name can be found backward in 17-, 31-, 47-and 63­Across 
Down John onlhe 
Mayflower 2 Freight 3 Clothing retailer 
starting in 1969 4 Pilot's announcement. for short 5 It's smaller than a penny 6 Online video equipment 7 Start of a Latin conjugation 8 Big name in morning radio 9 Sometime in the future 
10 Hearty 
11 Squeeze (into) 
12 By way of 
13 One calling the 
kettle black. in a phrase 18 Collection of plates 23 Sees red 25 Circle of angels? 27Whatsome drinkers run up 29 Skip 
WILLSHORTZ 

PuzzlebyAt.nArbesfeld  
30 Recipe amts. 32 Fill to capacity and then some  45 Friendly 46 Money from Sweden  55 Part of a record getting the most airplay  
33 Pick up, in a way 37 Dutch cheese 38 Gondolier's need 39Tailed  48 European-style cafe 49 Subject of a Hemingway title  57 Peruse 59 Bug chaser? 61 Hide-hair connector  
40 Rejuvenation lOcation 42 Part of an agenda  50 Holiday Inn alternative 54 Fabric for theater curtains  62 Threshold 64 Cry In old Rome 65 Sphere  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.comtmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.comtcrosswords ($39.95 a year}. Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords lor young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CF.LEBRITlK" BORN ON TillS DAY: Devon Sawa, Jl; Corhm Bernsen, 55; Jt~ie .Km•ru:r, 59: Gloria Ga}1l<.lr. 60 
Happy Birthday: Be a lillie wme <<realive abom the way you handle your financial mal!er>. Us-e your rommon ~use aud iusifbl wmw~ iu "JJllethmg with p<>tctllial Takinf a~tion \\ill oo \\1M lt'lld' to your st!CCC>> so don't pr<li:rastinat<>. Your munbcrs arc b, 1-l.l7, 2J. :?9. Jl, 40 
ARmS !)Hardt 2l-,\ptill9): EmNiou~ \t·iiJ he 'liihcttl! to c<illlml :md could lead !(> wl>dy mt3take~. Ptn moreerupltast~ on !(>W aud relauonsbtjls ordoin~ snmethiuy that wdl rnise your <relk'S!et-'1!1 Take aumlerett'" friend<, family and "hil<lren. *** 
TAtJRl!S tApti! 20-\tny 20): Kecj> anythin~. thai you are doing a secret for now. lnterf<'f enee v.~ll slow you down ami make y(>llr hfe difficult. Aj)l'(>hk•m pertaiuin)! to your current p<.l>!lt<.lll or }'O:>Uf f>eekmjl order at home will ari-;e if yon lin? tooa<;<:OliUUWahUJ!. *** 
GEMINI IMa~· .11-.lune 20): You haw some antllillg ideas tlta! caulwlp you lldvancc pro Jessiona!ly but. if )'otl take Olt too uutcb, }'011 will fall short of )'0\tr p:oo1ls. Stall small and build slowly. Lt1 your talent fuel your plait~. **** 
CANt~Ek (June 21-July lll: Don't let your anger show Son~"<Jite is ju~t wattmfl. for you to make~ mistake. K<'e() thilll'S m~i« control by fulfillill,.~ yt111r responsihiliti<'s Good thinjl.s will cou~~: )'UUT way if you are patient aud put iu extra homs. ** 
LEO (July 2J-Aug.tl): Ifyoutbink you ~an handle 1dwt'$ hci.ttl( <>4.etl of you, 11-0 for it hut if it will rC>trk't time you wauttfh1ltlld with someoue yott love, rethink ~~111r ~·hedu4·. Pc:r­<mtalmi$tlli:C'\ willtu!ll 11110 CllSlly liabiliric$. ***** 
VIRGO !Aug. 2J-stpl. 221: Call the si!Ots and you o.ill avoid bcin@ taken advant~e of by a fast talker.Don't giw iu to anyone askine; for a haudt.1111 or wantlll!l yt111f a.si,tauce. Now ts not tile 1imrtodoforoll1m when yon :1llould ootryi.llj!to ,get abc'.td. *** 
LIBRA tSept. 2..1-0et, 221: l.ct your ch~nu le-Jd the way. Sotii<.'Otte is likely to n~1ke yon 
~ugry and. if ron read ucg:~t.ivdy, it will sct }Ull ba<:k arulmake youltxlk bad. Coucentrnlc on what you can do tb:tt is positive.love h; looking g;ood m plan a romanti<' evening. *** 
SCORPIO (Od.l.'-No•·· 21 ): ;\ few last· minute dt:mges \\ill ensure that you have every· llnng just the way )'otl want it. L<!! your memr>rie~ and past cxp:>ricnce~ pride ron. Doll'! l<>t anyone !c<t<i yon to oobew you don't have somcthi1111 1\'0rth\\;hik to off«. *** 
SAOlTTARWS tNo•·. 22-D\>c. 211: You'll I~ readv to have some t1u~ but. bef"re vou <k>. make ~~If': von haven't left souJOO!l<: <lUI orfi.>Qt<llkit to do wmetbmg you promised to do, A probktn kit llll~tlCll<lcti willtuw iuto a resJ>Onsil>iJJty d1<1t i> diihcult I<! maua11c. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-J~tn.l91: You can talk all yon \\~Uil but. if you are too pu:;hy, you w1ll be Wa>till)l your lime aud cn~1·ll)·. Layin)t' down the rnk-smust be doll< in >UCh a waylLat }1m don't o!Iend anyone. v~ a lillie ch:U'ln aud friendly per:stm,;ion. ** 
;\Qt!ARil'S {,fan.lO..F~b. 18): Fr>:<Jt"'u! places y<HI usc.i 10 eJtjo}·mJ! p:mng to :utd hook up '~illl friends you ha\"C rome history with. Titc IIK>re you do to Tl'lllCtllbcr your ~la~!. tl~ bcncr cquippctl y011 "ill !J., to lumdk what's to come in the fururc. **** 
l'J~WES 11-'eb. 19-MW'Cb 20): Dm!'IJllay grutu.-s or ymt11 have to answcr <ptc~lious that may be awkward. You can nmke s\>me cltan);les bm <k>u't do so for the >ake of minin~ someouc d>e's plan~. Patience, uudcrstaudin~, compassion and for~ivent·ss will be required * * * 
Uirlhday Baby: Youl!n' Cll}~o~iuj! am\ know bow to getlbmg~ dorn:. You ru:e a k;nkr w1tb 
•re~r.i,-;, 11air. Yon are d<.-tkatt~l and iukul on umkit~g a difkm:u.:e. 
htg<mia) fli>b .silr~: mgt!nloltw.comfor conjidfl>lllinl cormtltmiotl.~, 
myspace£OIIIII'tlgt!tlinln~l far Eugtmin't blog, n!lroodviu.com for ftm 
CROSSWORD 
Across Performed on Broadway, say 6 Cry like a baby 1 0 Invitation request, for short 14 Actress Christine ot "Chicago 
Hope• 

15 Madame Bovary 
16 Its license plates say "Birthplace of Aviation" 17 Envision in one's sleep 19 Yawl or yacht 
20 Bad thing to have on one's face 
21 Us! ender: Abbe 
22 Transition 
24 NPR newsman 
Adams 26 Where to run some tests 28 Uke some bad film scenes 31 Sleepwear component 
34 Vegas intro? 
35 Scoreboard 
figure 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
36 Tombstone letters 37 salts 40 Hog's home 41 Dishful near a restaurant door 43 "How stupid of me!" 44 Nickname for Hemingway 46 Krazy _ of the comics 
47The Chattahoochee River forms part of it 
51 Classic family name in FlOrence 
52 Street caution near a school 53 Sunday service 56 Schindler of "Schindler's Ust" 58 Genetlc letters 60 2006 Verizon purchase 61 Former speaker Gingrich 
63 Arrive on the Enterprise via transporter 


WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
.,. '$ TAA..tlJH,J(;, ~%. 
,,:,,t.,J z <:> F W> c: c F r,, 6 1 '00. ts.A{}l\ 1$\iFl'f r>PLG}'THfZ, J>tt:tc.;4'\t To 

JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

HYLYS 
( J I 
I I 
I SATILE t
I (JIJ 
,-fif"'~ 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WOAD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

FOR MOST PI:OPL..f:, OBITUARif:S ARt: THIS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: (I I I]II rI I I I I )" 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  CHOKE  FELON  (Answers tomorrow) OXYGEN FIZZLE  
Answer:  What the pilots created when they sprayed  
the picnic area -A "NO·FLY" ZONE  
The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

SCHAD & FREUDE 

0 ·'' "~ '<.. f ;;: k ' ' " ; c ¢ "'""' 1' f., t} y ,p f !Z £ <2 v ·I (i 'j. ., 0 t'' t• v G .t\ 
,; ·' ·, ·•· · ~:-=··· ·=:t ;t ·~-=== t«>·(r :t.t £. ,:~L· ,. 
1"' ~---) t < :: : : ~..... ,.) 
-y M if/ ® .?-...) L~· \f<· %T' P?.... ·;... _o QVtff·.: T'"i iLE F' E r,\ 6: I'.J L L '\ 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address ___________________________________ City _________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, September 8, 2009 
page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Maund, Powers to represent U.S. in Under-20 World Cup 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
Two Irish players will be representing country and Notre Dame this month when they play in the Under­20 World Cup in Suez, Egypt. 
Sophomore defender Aaron Maund and freshman mid­fielder Dillon Powers were named in to the 21-man ros­ter of the United States' 
fOOTBALL 
Clausen, Floyd garner weekly honors in win 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Michael Floyd and Jimmy Clausen got Nevada's atten­tion. Now they've got the nation's. 
Floyd, a sophomore receiv­er, was named the National Performer of the Week by the College Football Performance Awards Monday. 
Floyd caught four passes, but turned them into 189 yards and three touchdowns Saturday during Notre Dame's 35-0 win over Nevada. Those totals were tops among receivers in week one. He took a swing pass down the left sideline for one, ripped the ball away 
see FLOYD/page 18 
under-20 team in late August and will leave for the World Cup after this week­end's games against Seattle and New Mexico. Depending on the team's success, the two may not be back until Notre Dame's Oct. 21 match with Georgetown. 
"I was really excited [when named to the team] because I worked really hard to get there," Maund said. "It's the World Cup, where every player dreams to be at one point. It was a great honor and I'm really excited to go." 
Maund, who will turn 19 a week before the team's first World Cup game, has played 282 of 290 total minutes this season for Notre Dame (1-1­1). In 2008, his freshman season, he played every pos­sible minute. 
"It's tough to miss time from the season," he said. "But our squad is really deep this year, so we have options. Boss -that's our coach [Bobby Clark], we call him Boss -he has things up his sleeve. The team should be okay." 

Powers, a highly regarded recruit and just 18 years old, has played in all three games for a total of 42 min­utes. He has already notched an assist, in the Sept. 1 win over Michigan. 
"You just kind of get used 
Awards show 


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Sophomore wide receiver Michael Aoyd looks upfield during Saturday's 35-0 win over Nevada. Aoyd caught four passes for 189 yards and three touchdowns against the Wolf Pack. 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles led by strong senior class 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's finished last season with a disappointing record of 2-13-1, partly due to the team's inexperience and shortage of senior leadership. However, second-year coach Ryan Crabbe's squad won't have that problem again this year. 
The Belles (1-2) field nine seniors this time around, five of whom are starters. 
Captain Bridget Ronayne returns alongside classmate Jessica Slean to anchor a defense that gave up 35 goals last season. The pair will lead an experienced backline hop-
see SLEAN/page 18 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Chemistry key to success 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
It's a word that sopho­mores hate and freshmen fear, but one that sports teams need for survival. 
That word is chemistry, and Notre Dame is saturated with it. 
"I think the chemistry is good," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "I think we have a very experienced team ... I think it's very positive." 
Experience is a big factor in team chemistry -Notre Dame's six seniors have known each other since they signed their letters of intent close to five years ago, and even the juniors and sopho­mores have had plenty of playing time together. 
"They've been through the preseason, the tournaments before," Brown said. "It 
see BROWN/page 18 to the fact that you're going to be gone and you travel all the time," Powers said. "It's the life of a soccer player." 


Maund has been playing with U.S. Soccer for years -he played on the under­14, under-15 and under-17 teams, and started all three games in the under-17 World Cup in South Korea. 
Powers is newer to the 
see POWERS/page 18 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Kuschel has high hopes for Saint Mary's in '09 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 
If you talk to Belles' volleyball head coach Toni Kuschel, it's safe to say that she thinks things are looking up for this year's squad. 
Saint Mary's, which fmished in third place at the Capital Tournament this past weekend, will start conference play against in-state rival Trine tonight at the Angela Athletic Complex. 
"The sky is the limit for this Saint Mary's team," Kuschel said. "This game is very important and will help set the tone for the rest of the season." 
Despite her own expectations, Kuschel admitted that the fate of this season rests in the hands of her talented players. 
"One of our teams goals this year is to fmish in the very top of the MIAA. A coach can have a clear picture of what they want for their team, but the 12 of them are the ones who have to believe and make it happen out on the court." 
The Belles should have no problems when it comes to self­motivation. They are led by a strong senior class headlined by Lorna Slupcznski. 

Slupcznski, an Indiana native, was recently named to the Capital Tournament All­Tournament team and was a big reason for the Belles' success. This experienced group should also help along what Kuschel describes as a "very talented" freshman class, who got their first taste of college volleyball this past weekend. 
The Belles will open confer­ence play tonight against the Thunder, who went only 9-20 last season. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 





