
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
University contributes $5.5 million to area 

r-
City of South Bend St. Joseph County City of Mishawaka 

Town of Roseland 
$3,025,000 1,870,000 550,000 50,000 $5,500,000 

JACL YN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
Local leaders say money is needed 
ByJENN METZ News Writer 

The University's $5.5 mil­lion in contributions to local communities demonstrate Notre Dame's "commitment to leadership," University President Fr. John Jenkins said in a June 29 press con­ference. 
The voluntary contributions will be distributed over the next 10 years to the cities of South Bend and Mishawaka, the town of Roseland and to St. Joseph County. 
The unrestricted funds will be provided in increments of $500,000 in each of the first five years, increasing to $600,000 annually in the sec­ond five years and may be used as needed by the munici­palities, according to a University press release. 
see MONEY/page 6 

• 
. I 
. 
. I ' I 
. i 
.: I 
i i 
. I 
I 
. 
• 
I 

• 
I 


:I'I 
t 
ND achieves 'Spirit' campaign goal early 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Two years ahead of sched­ule, Notre Dame surpassed its $1.5 billion goal of the "Spirit of Notre Dame" campaign this summer. 
According to a University press release, the campaign seeks to provide financial sup­port to four main areas of Notre Dame, including the undergraduate educational experience, research and 
graduate studies, diversity and international studies and Catholic intellectual life. 
"We are richly blessed that within less than five years we reached and exceeded the goal of $1.5 billion," Vice President of University Relations Lou Nanni said. "People have stretched out heroically to give back." 
Currently, the University has raised $1.56 billion and will continue to look to increase this total. 
Despite the decline in the economy since the campaign began in july 2004, over 70 percent of the commitments given to the University are already in hand. 
"Our Lady was looking over us," Nanni said. "We had the providence of timing with the campaign where it began just as the last recession was com­ing to an end, and we got so much of the giving in before the recent devastating reces­sion." 
While the University is pleased at the progress of the 



Students excited for 2009 season 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Despite last year's even record, students say they are optimistic about the Irish's chances against the Nevada Wolf Pack Saturday to begin Notre Dame's 2009 football season. 
After last year's 6-6 record followed by a victory in the Sheraton Hawaii Bowl, stu­dents say they have high hopes for the football team, especial­ly in light of the No. 23 presea­son ranking in the Associated 
see 2009/page 4 


campaign, they will continue to raise money for more spe­cific individual targets. 
"We have an enormous sense of gratitude, as well as a proiound sense there is still work to be done," Nanni said. 
Nanni said there are a num­ber of priorities that are not yet fulfilled, the most impor­tant of which is raising more resources for financial aid. He said the recent decline in the economy is a signal of the importance of this. 
"Forty-four percent of Notre 
Dame undergraduate students received aid from the University last year, while this year over 50 percent will receive aid," he said. "The need of current and incoming students has increased dra­matically and we need to raise more money to keep a Notre Dame education acces­sible to current students and those coming tomorrow." 
Citing the need for the University to remain competi­
see SPIRIT/page 4 
SMC to launch store for free item exchange 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saine Mary's Editor 
As the economy worsens, students are feelir, g the sting of limited funds just as badly as the rest of the country. 
Saint Mary's Environmental Action Coalition (SMEAC) is giving students the opportu­nity to not only watch their wallets, but also help the environment at the same time, through the Saint Mary's Free Store, which will have its grand opening Sept. 
6 from 2 to 6 p.m. 
The store -located in the basement of LeMans Hall ­is full of goods donated by students who no longer needed them. 
At the end of the year, or the end of the Christmas break, anyone with items they cannot take home, but are still in good condition, can donate them to the free store. Then other students can go through them and take any items they need, 
see SMC/page 6 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Pep rally format changes page 3 • Men's and Women's soccer page 28 • Dillon Hall Pep Rally page 14 • Viewpoint page 11 
______________._ 
page 2 Friday, September 4, 2009 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Football 
•


memories 
For my first Inside Column in over a year and a half, I would hate to make mine cliche and just reminisce about my college experience and how awesome football season is. Sorry. I read Katie Peralta those and so will 
Assistant
you. 
News
Since I was in Spain last year Editor and only had the opportunity to watch one Notre Dame football game total (thanks Lisa}, I think I am easily more excited for Saturday than any year I have ever gone to Notre Dame football games. Which have been a lot. 
I used to live in South Bend, and in grade school, my mom and dad would tote my two sis­ters and me to family tailgates every home game Saturday. From there they would force us to go around with our little box of candy bars to sell to all the over­served and overly enthusiastic ND fans. 
This was the annual Candy Sale, the creative fundraising effort of my dear old Saint Joseph Grade School on Hill Street. Who could resist mediocre, overpriced candy from a sweet-faced kid in a school uniform? While I hated selling the candy and probably decided at that point on I would never be a marketing major, I did love the excitement of football Saturday and deep down vowed to never leave it completely. 
High school rolled around and those Saturdays did not change, but now I was ditching my par­ents and rolling into tailgates with my friends after biking from our Wayne Street houses. After sipping Diet Cokes for a few hours with family and friends we would bike back and resume everyday life. 
Notre Dame to me then was then still my comfortable back­ground playground, but the prospect of actually belonging there did not really cross my mind. I thought of Notre Dame as a place for overachieving, out-of­state kids. I crossed it off my list. 
And then, after a cross-country move and a change of heart, came freshman year. Suddenly I felt just like I did as a third grader, when everything was big, intimidating and exciting. As the games went on the novelty of it all faded only a little, and then suddenly I was gone and only hearing about football game three days after the fact, from people's Facebook stati or from my frustrated dad. 
To be back here again this year brings me back to those SJGS days. Everything to me now is big and foreign again. The novel­ty is back, but with the privilege of sitting in the senior section. 
Keep the novelty alive. Study abroad and buy candy from a grade school kid. Go Irish. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katie Peralta at 
kperalta@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can co.>rrect our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR PREDICTION FOR SATURDAY'S GAME? 






Tim Ryan  Nate Farley  Keith Hetrick  Paola Garcia  Brian Wysocki  
sophomore Keenan  senior Keenan  sophomore Keenan  sophomore Keenan  junior Hsher  
..We will score  .. 62 I­,  ..45 pushups!"  ..They will  ..Mets J, Cubs I.  
more often than  Notre Dame.  ,,  Neva-da score  Two more Mets  
a Nevada lady  against us!"  injured."  
ofpleasure. ,,  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA!The Observer 
Members of the Notre Dame class of 2012 play flag football on South Quad lhursday. The sophomore class held flag football and a barbecue Thursday evening. 
OFFBEAT 

TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 
0::: 
LLI ::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
_. 
<
(.) 






66 54 

HIGH HIGH HIGH 78 LOW LOW LOW 58 
79 56 
IN BRIEF 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore will host a book launch celebration today for the book, "Monk's Tale: The Pilgrimage Begins, 1941 ­1975," _by Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C. from 12:00p.m. -2:00 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. 
The film "Afghan Star" will play tonight in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film begins at 6:30 p.m. To purchase tickets call the tick­et office at 574-631-2800 or 
_visit the performing arts Web site. · 
The No. 2 ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team will play No. 1 ranked North Carolina tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. For tick­et information, call 574-631­7356 or visit the Athletic ticket office Web site. 
The movie "Rudy" will play on North Quad tonight at 
9:00 p.m. The event is free for students and is sponsored by Flipside. 
American Studies professor Erika Doss will deliver a lec­ture titled, "Memorial Mania: Public Art and Public Feelings in America Today," Saturday at 12:00 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The lecture is sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters and is part of the Saturday Scholars series. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 73 HIGH LOW 59 LOW 
74 59 
Man calls 911 to com­plain of hunger 
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. ­Authorities said a man was arrested after calling 911 twice for a ride and saying he was hungry. Police reports said Benjamin Dewer, 26, was charged early Wednesday with making false calls to 911. The report said Dewer was apparently drunk when police found him sitting on a sidewalk. He asked police for a ride to a park and told them he was hun­gry. 
When police refused, Dewer walked away and called 911 a second time 
for a ride. 

Dewer was being held behind bars at the Palm Beach County Jail on a $1,000 bond. 
Woman's life easier with shorter fingernails 
SALT LAKE CITY -A Salt Lake City woman who held a Guinness World Record for her long fingernails before they broke off in a car crash says it was the most dramatic event of her life. But Lee Redmond, who lost the fingernails in February, says it's now much easier to do things and her hands seem to fly with the weight of the nails gone. 

The 68-year-old won't grow her nails out again, saying it took 30 years the first time and she may not live for another 30. 
Redmond hadn't cut her nails since 1979 and entered the Guinness World Records book in 2002 for longest finger­nails on a woman. 
The Guinness Web site says her nails measured a total of more than 28 feet long in 2008, with the longest nail on her right thumb at 2 feet, 11 inches. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Atlanta 86 I 63 Boston 79 I 60 Chicago 76 I 56 Denver 82 I 57 Houston 93 I 73 Los Angeles 87 I 66 Minneapolis 78 I 57 New York 82 I 64 Philadelphia 82 I 62 Phoenix 103 I 83 Seattle 73 I 59 St. Louis 81 I 60 Tampa 87 I 75 Washington 84 I 64 
page 3 

Friday, September 4, 2009 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS 
Students react to pep rally format changes 

New venues include Irish Green, Stepan Center; student government says length of program will decrease 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
South Quad, Stepan Center and Notre Dame Stadium are a few of the planned locations for this year's pep rallies, which will be very different from those of years past ­and not just because they're moving around campus. 
"We're going to keep them short," said student body president Grant Schmidt. "The Band will play and pump everyone up, the team will come in, there will be one speaker, a couple cheers, and it's done. 
"Thirty minutes of everyone yelling, screaming, high-fiv­ing each other: That's back to the core of a solid pep rally." 
Students say a shortened pep rally is. a relief after the two-hour rallies of previous years. 
"People don't want to sacri­fice two hours on a Friday, and people definitely don't want to stand there for two hours," said senior Leslie Vaughn. "It's smart to make it shorter." 
Despite the excitement of a shortened pep rally, students are apprehensive about some of the planned locations." 
With eight pep rallies occurring this season, four will be held at Irish Green, south of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tents and activities will be set up from 3 to 7 p.m. on Fridays, concluding with the 6:30 p.m. 
pep  rally,  and  be  open  
Saturday  mornings  until  
game time.  

In addition to Irish Green, one pep rally will be held in Stepan Center, one in Notre Dame Stadium, one in Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center and tonight's Dillon Hall pep rally will be on South Quad. 
But the Irish Green location is unprecedented. 
"I'm not sure if outside pep rallies will work," sophomore Sarah Teising said. "And I had never heard of Irish Green before." 
Schmidt said student gov­ernment is uncertain about the success of the Irish Green pep rallies. 
"It's not that much farther than the JACC, but walking to the JACC you pass by the sta­dium. you pass by Touchdown Jesus, you get pumped," he said. "You don't have that 

without enthusiastic student involvement. 
"The most important aspect of a pep rally is to remind the Notre Dame football team that the student body is behind them," Schmidt said. 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tdvanto@nd.edu 
walking to Irish Green. Plus people don't really know where it is." 
Meanwhile, pep rally plan­ners hope for strong student support throughout the sea­son. 
"In order for a pep rally to be a true pep rally, it needs to have students," Schmidt said. 

"I remember visiting Notre Dame as a sophomore in high school and I was just in awe of the students -their spirit and excitement." 
A key part of the pep rally experience is involving alum­ni and campus visitors as well as students, Schmidt said. 
But it's just not a pep rally 


ngratulations Father Edward A. Malloy, c.s.c. 
on the publication of the first installment of your metnoirs. 
, 




on s 
The 
Pilgrimage 
Begins, 
1941-•975 


Friday, September 4, 2009 
12:00 PM -2:00 PM 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Refreshments will be served in the Hammes Cafe 
$25.00 hardcover Includes 36 halftones 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
----. ----·---­
www.undpress.nd.edu ­
page 4 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 4, 2009 
2009 
continued from page 1 
Press poll. 
Judging from an inspired performance in the bowl game and a promising freshman class, the Irish could be good this year, senior Jason Miller said. 
"Based on what we saw in the bowl game, our schedule and the incoming class, I think the pieces are finally falling into place for a breakout sea­son," Miller said. "It's going to be fun to watch." 
Since he was abroad last fall, Miller said this season will be even more exciting, as he has not seen a football game in Notre Dame stadium for almost two years. 
And the promise of a good season makes that even better, Miller said. 
''I'm hugely excited for the first game. After a year away, I can't wait to get back in the stadium," he said. "Like most other people, I have high hopes for this season, and I'm excited to be a part of it." 
For freshmen with no prior game day experience, this year signifies the beginning of an era of quality football that will hopefully last for the duration of their time at Notre Dame, according to James Benner, a freshman from Dillon Hall. 
"The guys on SportsCenter are saying that this will be a breakout year for the Fighting Irish, so it's a pretty exciting time to be a freshman here," Benner said. "I've got a lot of good football to look forward to." 
Benner, along with most other freshmen, is also looking forward to his first football game in the student section. 
"My family is big on Notre Dame football, but I've never been to a college football game, so this is pretty cool for me," Benner said. 

Another thing to look for­ward to is the highly-anticipat­ed return of the Dillon Hall pep rally. The pep rally's cancella­tion last year was met with great disappointment from the student body, and students are happy to have it back, said sen­ior Michelle Hackner, a resi­dent of Walsh Hall. 
"The Dillon pep rally was hilarious my first two years here, and I was sad that they cancelled it," Hackner said. "My friends are I are all excit­ed to watch it this year. Hopefully it's funny." 
As a senior, Hackner has high hopes for the season. 
But she said there are other things to look forward to if the team doesn't meet expecta­tions, such as tailgating. 
''I'll still be excited for games and tailgating if the team does­n't live up to the hype, but it will all be so much better if they do," Hackner said. "The starters are all back and they played well in the Hawaii Bowl, so there's no reason for them not to do well this year." 
The Irish will kick off their season tomorrow at 2:30p.m. 
The Dillon Hall pep rally will take place tonight at 5:45 p.m. on South Quad. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
the Eck Hall of Law, Geddes Hall and the two new arenas


Spirit 
for lacrosse and soccer are some of the most visible
continued from page 1 
areas, Nanni said. tive in the market place for He also said there are a prospective students, Nanni number of non-tangible said the money from the aspects money from the campaign will also fund aca­campaign will go to fund, demic initiatives. including the Rooney Center 
"Prospective students are for American Democracy very educated consumers," and the Eck Center for Nanni said. "They want to Global Health and Infectious see updated Diseases. facilities and "Only one 
who has "We feel we have an percent of the 
strong pro­world's popu­
important niche in 
gramming in lation has a 
different higher education and college areas where we are doing degree, so 
they intend to how are we
everything we can to
major." making our­
Nanni also strengthen and selves rele­emphasized preserve the vant to the 
the impor­other 99 per­
distinction ofa Notre 
tance of cent of the
Dame education. ,,
Catholicism in world?" Notre Dame's Nanni said. mission. "We are
Lou Nanni 
"For the enhancing
vice president
past 15 years, quality of life
University Relations
the same through new cohort of knowledge." schools have While the been ranked as the top 20 in goal of $1.5 billion has been the nation and every one of reached, Nanni emphasized those schools other than there is still two years to go Notre Dame are secular on the campaign. institutions," he said. "We "We will do everything we feel we have can in the an important next two 
niche in high­years to raise er education ··we are enhancing as many and we are quality oflife through resources as 
doing every­possible to
knowledge.··
thing we can enhance aca­to strengthen demic stand­and preserve Lou Nanni ing, improve the distinction vice president all of our of a Notre offerings for
University Relations 
Dame educa-our students 
tion." and ultimate­
While the ly have a money raised in the cam­greater impact on this paign will go to an array of world," he said. projects, the most obvious are the additions to campus. Contact Liz O'Donnell at 
Duncan Hall, Ryan Hall, eodonnel@nd.edu 



~sR23 @Ironwood *SR933 North *Downtown *Speedway 
SR 2 3 @ Edison

eat tresh 
*Indian Ridge Plaza 


FOOTBALL HOURS 
FRIDAY Restaurant: 1l00am -~~dnight Pub: 11 :00 am · 2:00 am 
SATURDAY P.estaurant: 8:00am · Midnight Pub: 8:00am -2:00 am 
574 6312582 www.tegendsofnotredame.org 

&ie6.Jtate utitli .&jet~! 
Join us Friday night for food, drinks, and plenty of football coverage on our 144"' screen and 161arge, flat screen TVs. Return on Saturday for our pregame party and enjoy breakfast, lunch, and our tailgate menu. 

<M. 
EGENDS 
F NOTRE DAME 

... ~r::: ;·_Y..,?.i..::...~-:-.>-:·l ~> /·.:;.=. ··:-__ ·:_:::-..-:_ .. :-; 
~:;~clal Notre Dame 
Football Radio Show
• 
. wit/1 Regg1e Brooks and Jack Nolan 




Friday, Septmeber 4, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVERS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Earthquake kills 57 in Indonesia 
CIKANGKARENG -Children were crowded around a video game console, passing the time before they could break the Muslim holy months daily fast, when an earthquake touched off a landslide that smothered their Indonesian village. 
Rescuers were searching Thursday for those 13 children and several dozen more people buried alive, as officials warned the death toll of 57 is sure to rise. 
Thousands of others were spending the night in tents after Wednesdays 7.0-magnitude quake flattened or seriously damaged more than 10,000 homes, offices, schools and mosques on the western side of the densely populated island of Java. Aid workers distrib­uted provision kits, blankets and medicine, but said they were concerned remote areas had not received help following the temblor, which was felt for hundreds of miles. 
Chinese protest needle stabbings 
URUMQI -~ Thousands marched through this city in western China on Thursday after a series of stabbings with hypoder­mic needles further unnerved residents already jittery over deadly rioting between Han Chinese and Muslim Uighurs. 
More than 10,000 people, mostly from the Han Chinese majority, took the streets, demanding increased security and punish­ment for those behind the July riots. Demonstrators said police beat some pro­testers, but there were no major clashes. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
R.I. state workers to be layed off 
PROVIDENCE -Gov. Don Carcieri warned Thursday he will lay off 1,000 state workers after a judge blocked him from shutting down government to save money, but he signaled a willingness to cut a deal with state employee unions that could save jobs. 
The governor threatened layoffs shortly after Supreme Court Justice Maureen McKenna Goldberg stopped him from forcing about 80 percent of the roughly 13,500-member state work force to stay home without pay Friday. It was supposed to be the first of a dozen shut­down days before July designed to partially close a $68 million shortfall in a state budget hammered by surging unemployment and dwin­dling tax revenue. 
Vt. teen sentenced in sexting case 
BURLINGTON -An 18-year-old pleaded guilty to reduced charges Thursday in Vermonts first "sexting" case, in which he allegedly directed two teenage girls to video­tape or photograph themselves performing sex acts and send him the results. 
Isaac Owusu, of Morrisville, was sentenced to up to two years in prison but will serve 90 days after pleading guilty to two counts of committing a prohibited act· and one count of lewd and lascivious conduct. 
Sexual assault charges originally lodged against him were dropped as part of the plea, as were two counts of promoting a sexual recording. 
The deal was offered in part because the state Legislature recently passed a law decriminalizing sexting. 
"We respect the process in Montpelier," said Chittenden County States Attorney T.J. Donovan. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Judge excludes gory photos 
INDIANAPOLIS -An Indianapolis judge has excluded several photos of three slain children and four adults from evidence in a murder trial because they might inflame the jury. 
Marion Criminal Court Judge Robert Altice said he had trouble viewing some of the gruesome photos even after 20 years on the bench. 
Altice made the ruling during a pretrial hearing Thursday for 31-year-old Desmond Turner and 33-year-old James Stewart. Turners trial is set for Oct. 5. Stewart is scheduled to go to trial Nov. 30. 



White House open to compromise 
Obama administration signals at possibility of concessions on health care reform 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Even as 
liberals urge President 
Barack Obama to demand 
bold, far-reaching changes 
to the nations health care 
system, the White House 
signaled openness 
Thursday to compromises 
that might attract moderate 
congressional Democrats as 
well as some Republicans. 
Obama believes in "fun­
damental principles" about 
overhauling health care, 
top presidential adviser 
David Axelrod told The 
Associated Press, but "hes 
not dogmatic about how we 
get there." 

Axelrods comments did 
not definitively answer how 
hard Obama will push for 
the most ambitious parts of 
his proposal, including 
health insurance for virtu­
ally all Americans and a 
government-run plan to 
compete with private insur­
ers. But his diplomatic tone 
was in keeping with the 
administrations approach 
of refusing to flatly demand 
several parts that are dear 
to Democratic activists who 
helped elect him. 

Those are the type of conciliatory hints that frus­trate many liberals. They fear Obama will dilute the bold health care proposals he campaigned for, even wonder if Obama really will Axelrod replied: "We need ers, who stand to gain mil­though Democrats control jam a robust plan past choice and competition lions more customers if the House. Senate and overwhelming GOP opposi­within the pool thats creat­Congress mandates cover­White House. One group, tion and the reservations of ed." age of the nations unin­the Progressive Change many centrist congression­The plan has been floated sured. Obama has often Campaign Committee, sent al Democrats eyeing their by Republican Sen. said he favors such a "pub­a mass-distributed e-mail next election. Those Olympia Snowe of Maine. lic option." But he and his quoting a Texas man saying Democrats will listen care­She often is seen as the aides have repeatedly he is "dropping out of polit­fully for clues when Obama most likely GOP lawmaker stopped short of saying he ical activism" because of addresses a joint session of to support a primarily would sign no bill without his disillusionment with Congress next Wednesday Democratic-crafted health it. Obama over health care. night. bill. She would have non­Obamas pollster Joel 
Also, former President Axelrods cautious profit agencies offer health Benenson sent new survey Bill Clinton told Esquire answers Thursday might insurance only if private findings to Democratic law­Magazine that Obama offer little comfort to those insurers could not cover 95 makers Thursday in an should forge ahead with his seeking forceful signs from percent of the people in apparent bid to reassure health care proposals. "I the administration. their regions with plans them that support for 
wouldnt even worry about Asked if Obama might costing no more than about health care changes can be the Republicans," Clinton accept a Republican sena­15 percent of the persons politically popular. The said. Obama is doing the tors idea for creating a or households annual somewhat lukewarm sup­right thing, he said, "even public health insurance income. port for Obamas initiatives, though hes jamming a lot option only if private insur­Many Democrats want his memo said, is "based in of change down the sys­ers prove unwilling or prompt creation of a gov­large part on a lack of 
tem." unable to meet certain ernment-run program to awareness of the details of · But many Democrats affordability targets, compete with private insur-the plan." 

EGYPT 

UN.: Darfur crisisatendafterdropinviolence 
month last year. 2. 7 million people were driven from
Associated Press 

"We can no longer talk of a big con­their homes and at its height, in 2003­
CAIRO-The outgoing U.N. peace­flict, of a war in Darfur." Adada told The 2005, it was called the worlds worst keeping chief in Sudans Darfur region A'isociated Press this week before step­humanitarian crisis. said the world should no longer consid­ping down as head of the joint United President Barack Obamas new envoy er the long-running conflict a war after Nations-African Union peacekeeping to Sudan, Scott Gration, caused an out­a sharp decline in violence and deaths mission in Darfur, or TJNAMID. cry in Jtme when he said the violence in over the past year. "I think now everybody understands Darfur no longer amounted to genocide 
Activists and Darfur residents dis­it. We can no longer speak of this issue. and then suggested easing sanctions agree, and the comments by Rodolphe It is over," he said. against the Sudanese government. Adada heightened anxiety that there The Darfur conflict began in February Adding to the complications, violence will be less international focus on 2003 when ethnic African rebels took is on the rise on another front in semi­resolving the root problems in the trou­up arms against the Arab-dominated autonomous southern Sudan, more bled region. Sudanese government in Khartoum, than four years after a 2005 peace 
U.N. peacekeepers have recorded a claiming discrimination and neglect. accord ended a separate 21-year civil sharp decline in fatalities from violence. U.N. officials say the war has claimed war that left 2 million people dead. If There were 16 deaths in June, com­at least 300,000 lives from violence, dis­violence there escalates, it could poten­pared to an average 130 deaths per ease and displacement. They say some tially overshadow Darfur. 
Friday, September 4, 2009 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
During the semester, the have felt the brunt of the instance of the University pro­ties are facing. And we, too, Luecke said this is the first store will be open for regular

Money 
SMC 

hours on Sundays from 12 to continued from page 1 we hope and think that this butions for the city. 
financial crisis," he said. "So, viding direct financial contri­continued from page 1 3 p.m. and Wednesdays from 
contribution comes at a par­"We are certainly grateful 
5 to 8 p.m. "We have full confidence ticularly important time as for the understanding of Fr. 
said Ashley Cook, president According to Cook, other that local government leaders our local government officials Jenkins," he said. 
ofSMEAC. events for the year include know how these funds can continue their work to provide Rea described the contribu­
"We opened the free store cleaning up the beach, rais­best be used for the good of services to the community." tion as a "welcome surprise" 
so that students have an ing money for the World their constituents," Jenkins Mayor Stephen Luecke of and told The Observer the 
opportunity to use items that Wildlife Fund, going on a said. "We hope and believe South Bend said the city is municipality is not yet sure 
would otherwise be thrown nature walk, watching envi­that these funds will make a "deeply grateful for the how it will spend the money, 
away," Cook said. "This saves ronmentally related films positive difference in our com­University's contribution" but indicated funds will likely 
students money and saves and going on a trip to the munity." especially because this is a be directed to city promotions. 
the environment by reducing zoo. University Spokesperson time where the budget is "What the University does is 
the amount of trash." The mission of the club is Dennis Brown described the under "severe stress." bring people to our area, so 
The group does accept to make the College and the variety of ways in which Notre Mishawaka Mayor Jeffrey we would like to have infor­
donations year round, and surrounding South Bend Dame contributes to the local Rea echoed his neighbor's mation available on different 
students who have something community more environ­community in an e-mail mes­sentiments, thanking the things they can do while 
to give can leave it outside mentally aware, Cook said. sage to The Observer. With an University for "recognizing they're in our area," he said. 
the free store in a container They have teamed up with annual economic impact of these are difficult times for Though the amount· is "sig­
labeled 'donation.' faculty to make recycling $873 million, the University local governments." nificant," it will not fund any 
The idea for the free store more available to students, accounts for more than Brown said University offi­long-term expenses, he said. 
came two years ago when Dr. and last year was the first 12,000 jobs in St. Joseph cers were behind the decision, The clerk treasurer of 
Louise Weber, a professor at year that students had bins County and draws more than and the contributions are Roseland, Susan Hammons, 
Warren Wilson College, sug­available to them in their 685,000 visitors from outside being pooled from the told The Observer the funds 
gested it during a lecture residences. the county who spend roughly University General Fund. were used for payroll for staff 
here on campus, Cook said. "We hope that our pres­$114 million at off-campus He said the amount was in the police department 
"The main purpose of the ence on campus will influ­retailers. decided upon because "the because revenue from annual 
free store is to get students ence students in a positive Notre Dame also contributes University sought to make a state income taxes has not yet 
to reuse items instead of way by making them think more than 3 7 3,000 work contribution that was fair and been distributed. 
throwing them away," she about the impact they have hours through student volun­meaningful." Therefore, the money from 
said. "This keeps items out of on the environment," Cook teerism and has accounted for First checks were mailed to the University was a "good 
the trash and gives students said. more than $12 million over municipalities this summer, surprise," she said. 
an opportunity to pick up the past five years in local Brown said. President of the St. Joseph 
something they might need Contact Ashley Charnley at taxes, Brown said. "We trust that the funds will County Board of 
instead of buying it new." acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

University-backed initiatives be used in a meaningful way, Commissioners Bob Kovach such as the Robinson and there is no requirement said St. Joseph County has not Community Learning Center, that the communities report to · yet determined how it will use the Northeast Neighborhood use how that plays out," he the money. Revitalization Organization said. "The County Council is the and, more recently, MetroNet, Luecke told The Observer county's fiscal body, so the Eddy Street Commons and the city will first use the funds board of commissioners [. .. ] Innovation Park also assist to cover costs for providing could make a recommenda­local municipalities, Brown overtime traffic police for tion and then it would be up said. home football games -to the county council fiscal 
However, the contribution of amounting to slightly less than body to make actual appropri­$5.5 million over 10 years is half of this year's allocation. ation," he said. "a more direct financial com­"I think it's appropriate to Brown said the University mitment, and it is provided use the money for a service has received comments with the sincere intent to be a that supports our relations regarding the contribution, valuable partner in the com­with the University," he said. and most have been in sup­munity," Brown said. The remaining funds will port. 
The current state of the reduce budget gaps for police, nation's economy was a factor fire and parks departments, Madeline Buckley in the decision, Brown said. he said. contributed to this report. 
"We are also keenly aware "These are important for the of the extraordinary financial quality of life in South Bend," Contact Jenn Metz at hardships our local communi-Luecke said. jmetz@nd.edu 







Write news. E-mail Madeline at 
mbuckley@nCl.ed'Mu 

-,. 



Friday, September 4, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
' 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,344.61 +63.94 
Up· Same· Down: Composite Volume; 2,787 112 925 1,086,401,749 
AMEX 1,~90.59 +5.87 NASDAQ 1,983.20 + 16.1 ~~ NYSE @.. 6,.546.60 +7 1.81 S&P 500 1003.24 -+2.05 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 101231.92 ---+lffi-76 FTSE 100 (London) 4,796.75 -2<um 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ClTIGROUP {C) +4.61 +0.21 4.n FANNIE MAE (FNM) +19.71 +0.27 1.64 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) -3.50 +0.57 16.84 S&P OEP RECEIPTS (SYP) +.83 +0.83 100.65 
' Treasuries lO·YEAR NOTE +1.00 +0.033 .3.33 13-WEEK BILl -3.85 ·0.005 0.125 30-YEAR BOND +1.12 +0.046 4.15 S·YEAR NOTE +0.88 +0.02 2.28 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbL) -0.09 67.96 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +19.20 997.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.88 80.88 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.5150 EURO 1.4241 CANADIAN DOLlAR 1.1038 BRITISH POUND 1.6306 
IN BRIEF 
More Americans using food stamps 
WASHINGTON ..:_ More Americans than ever before received food stamps in June, the Department of Agriculture said on Thursday, with more than 35 million Americans receiv­ing assistance. 
The numbers are 22 percent higher than in June 2008. The number of Americans receiv­ing food stamps rose by more than 700,000 people compared to May. 
The USDA administers the food stamp pro­gram, which was renamed in October as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, through its Food and Nutrition Service. The program helps to cover grocery costs for poor Americans. 
The food stamp program was established by Congress in 1964, which was then revised by the Food Stamp Act of 1977. 
The average recipient of food stamps in June received more than $133 in assistance. The average household received more than $293. Overall, the USDA distributed more thai?-$4.6 billion in food stamps in June. They went to 35,122,123 recipients. 
The numbers, while only one indicator, are a sign that Americans continue to struggle with the countrys economic downturn. June was the eighth straight month that the num­ber of people on food stamps rose. 
Money fund assets fall to $3.559T 
NEW YORK -Total money market mutual fund assets fell by $21.35 billion to $3.559 tril­lion for the week, the Investment Company Institute said Thursday. 
Assets of the nations retail money market mutual funds fell $4.97 billion in the latest week to $1.163 trillion. 
Assets of taxable money market funds in the retail category fell by $4.12 billion to $908.46 billion for the week ended Wednesday, the Washington-based mutual fund trade group said. Retail tax-exempt fund assets fell $850 million to $254.18 billion. 
Assets of institutional money market funds fell by $16.38 billion to $2.396 trillion for the same period. Among institutional funds, tax­abl£> money markf't fund assets fell by $16.21 billion to $2.211 trillion; assets of institutional tax-exempt funds fell by $170 million to $185.53 billion. 
Biden defends stimulus plan 
Affirms recovery act 'changing the trajectory' ofthe economy despite GOP criticisnz 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Defending a costly plan to revitalize the economy, Vice President Joe Biden on Thursday said the govern­ments sweeping stimulus effort "is in fact working" despite steady Republican criticism and public skepti­cism. 
"The recovery act has played a significant role in changing the trajectory of our economy, and changing the conversation in this country," Biden said. "Instead of talking about the beginning of a .depression, we are talking about the end of a recession." 
Nearly 200 days into the effort, Biden delivered an upbeat report card about the $787 billion rescue effort that President Barack Obama pushed through Congress. He quoted esti­mates by private analysts that the plan has created or saved 500,000 to 750,000 jobs so far. But many mil­lions remain out of work. 
The effectiveness of' the two-year program is a mat­ter of sharp political debate, and Biden sought to counter critics with a listing of tangi­ble results. 
~ "One of the criticisms is that it is simply a grab bag of different programs," tor. • Biden warned that the less to stimulate the econo­Biden said in a speech at T!le Republican Party crit­recovery will be uneven. But my. The same poll found 41 The Brookings Institution. icized Biden's speech. "The he said so far, the law is percent thought the stimulus "But the fact that the recov­Democrats rhetoric on their "doing more, faster, more package was helping the ery act is multifaeeted does­economic experiment doesnt efficiently, and more effec­economy in the short term; nt reflect a lack of design, it match with the reality of tively than most expected." 33 percent saw no effect, is the design." millions of Americans The White llouse, though, and 24 said it was making 
The stimulus package is a remaining unemployed," has also admitted that its the economy worse. mix of tax cuts, increased said Republican Party chief initial economic forecasts to The vice presidents spending on Medicaid and Michael Steele. "The stimu­sell the stimulus were too appearance is part of a con­huge investments in infra­lus was an economic experi­rosy. Many Republican lead­certed White House push in structure, education, energy ment that failed Americans." ers say the stimulus is not advance of the 200th day of projects and more. Obamas Council of working nearly as well as the stimulus act on Saturday. 
The White House is eager Economic Advisers on Sept. the White House promotes, Five top administration offi­to promote signs of progress 10 wiJI report an updated and at huge cost of debt to cials plan to speak about the as the economy lumbers out projection of the number of the nation. laws benefits on Thursday in of recession. Many econo­jobs created or saved With Obama on vacation appearances in Arkansas, mists warn that the unem­because of the stimulus at the Camp David presiden­Virginia, Illinois, California ployment rate will keep ris­plan. Riden said he expected tial retreat in Maryland, the and Minnesota. ing until at least next sum­it will back up his predic­White House hopes Bidens Public approval of Obamas mer, and it is that measure tions of 150,000 jobs in the message will break through. performance and of his han­-the loss or creation of jobs first 100 days and another A Gallup poll last month dling of the economy have 
by which many 600,000 formed or saved found 51 percent of slipped. Polls now put both Americans decide whether over the second 100 days of Americans wished the gov­figures slightly above 50 per­
• economic life is getting bet-the act. ernment wou'Id have spent cent. 

$500 mil. to dealers for 'clunkers' 
Associated Press  spoke on condition of anonymity,  incentives of $3,500 or $4,500 for  
was not autfiorized to speak publicly  consumers to trade in a gas-guzzler  
WASHINGTON -The government  about the data before a congression­ for a new, more fuel-efficient car or  
has approved $500 million in reim­ al briefing.  truck, boosted car sales during the  
bursements to car dealers for sales  All eligible and completed dealer  summer. U.S. auto sales rose to 1.3  
under the Cash for· Clunkers pro­ submissions should be fully paid by  . million vehicles in August, a 30 per­ 
gram and dealers should be paid by  Sept. 30, the official said. The cffi­ cent increase from July and the first  
late September, officials said  cial said the government is ramping  morith ly year-over-year gain since  
Thursday.  up staff and 5,000 workers will. be  October 2007.  
Auto dealers have complained that  reviewing paperwork by the end of  Ford Motor Co .. Toyota Motor  
the Obama administration has been  next week. About 3,000 government  Corp., llyundai Motor Co. and Honda  
slow to pay them for the car pur­ and private sector workers are cur­ Motor Co. posted strong sales.  
chase incentives of up to $4,500.  rently working on the project.  Auto dealers have said the delays  
The rebates led to 690,114 new  The official said the department  have squeezed their businesses,  
sales at a taxpayer cost of $2.88 bil­ expects to be approving $100 million  leaving them on a short-term hook  
lion. ·  per day by the end of next week.  for dozens of deals. AutoNation Inc.,  
A Transportation official said  Department officials told congres­ the nations largest dealership chain,  
120,000 submissions from dealers,  sional aides that dealers should be  said Wednesdav it was owed morP  
or about 17 pPrcent, have been  reimbursed within 3 days of thf'ir  than $54 millioi1 from clunker sales  
approwd under the program, which  dPals being approved.  and expected to get paid in 30 to 60  
PndPd on Aug. 24. The oflicial, who  The program, which providrd  days.  

Friday, September 4, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 8 
Arson said to be cause of wildfire 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Investigators ­latmched a homicide investigation Thursday into the wildfire north of Los Angeles after determining that the gigantic blaze -which has killed two firefighters, scorched 226 square miles and destroyed dozen.;; of homes -was set intentionally 
"We believe that this was caused by someone intending to set a fire," sheriff's spokesman Steve Whitmore said at an afternoon briefing. 
Officials said forensic evidence at the fire's point of origin revealed that the wildfire -among the largest in Southern California's his­tory -was an act o.f ·arson. Whitmore declined to elaborate on the evidence due to the ongoing investigation. 
The two firefighters died Sunday when their truck careened off a steep mountain road. 
Earlier Thursday, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger toured a fire-rav­aged community where the fire left dozens of homes in ruins, encoun­tering piles of twisted metal and rubble as firefighters began to bring the blaze under greater con­trol. 
The blaze was 38 percent con­tained Thursday, up from 28 per­cent the previou.•; day. 
Schwarzenegger talked to resi­dents about their losses and later thanked firefighters for all of their work in putting out the flames. At one point during the tour, the for­mer bodybuilder picked up a 30­pound barbell located amid the wreckage. 
"Even though we are still battling those frres. ·we are now trying to help get people's lives rebuilt," Schwarzenegger said. "When you see thi'i kind of deva.;;tation, it's hor­rible to lose your home, your per­sonal belongings." 
Despite the overall progress against the fire, firefighters dealt with a flare-up overnight in a remote canyon as strong downs­lope winds "just kind of blew the fire up," said U.S. Forest Service official John Huschke. Twenty-five people in 11 homes were evacuat­ed in the canyon area. 
The wildfire, now in its eighth day, has destroyed 64 homes, burned three people and left two firefighters dead. During the night, a firefighter injured his leg when he fell 20 foot from a cliff and was taken to a hospital by a medical helicopter, officials said. He wa.;; in stable condition. 
Full containment was expected Sept. 15, meaning fire officials expect that they Will have the blaze completely surrounded by then. 
Firefighters nave been conduct­ing an aerial assault on the fire to complement efforts on the ground. Helicopters have doused the fire with 1.7 million gallons of water­enough to fill about three Olympic­sized swimming pools -while air­planes have dropped 670,000 gal­lons of retardant on the fire. 
~~rsik ~·1\Jo~ .~~"fiit.e~ 
Tour Our Communi(v Todtw! 
Monday-Friday: 9:00am-5:30pm Saturday: 10:00atn*4 :OOpm 
Call Now! 574-233-2212 1643 N Riverside Drive 
South· Bend. IN 466 16 
Calif. water crisis under review 
Associated Press 

FRESNO -Top Obama administration officials took California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to task Thursday for blaming the state's water crisis on federal environmental restrictions. 
The governor sent a letter to Washington on Wednesday demanding a response to "cata­strophic impacts" he said were caused by federal environmen­tal rules that have slashed water deliveries. 

Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 

Interior Secretary Ken 
Salazar and Commerce 
Secretary Gary Locke coun­
tered that a three-year drought 
is responsible for most of the 
state's water shortages, not 
agency scientists. · 
A Schwarzenegger ·spokesman said the governor's 
oflice was reviewing the secre­
taries' written response. 
Tight water supplies have 
caused cities throughout the 
state to ration supplies and 
farmers to abandon a quarter­
million acrM of croplands. 
The state's failure to restore the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, the freshwater estuary that forms the heart of the state's outdated water delivery system, has only compounded the problem. the secretaries said. 
"We are disapp'ointed that your letter would attempt to lay the California water crisis at the feet of agency scientists," the letter read. "You can be assured that the federal gov­ernment will be a full partner to help implement any compre­hensive plan that the state enacts into law." 

Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 
A1agrane Pet 1\;fedical Center Welcomes: 

Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 

Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of N'otre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Dr. Logue brings a wealth of experience in emergency and critical care medicine-care of the sickest pets, to our experienced staff. 
"CarmgfiJr your pet is carmgfiJr a jiuni(v member and /.foe! privileged to work with a great team to corefor your pet. '11'/wther health.v or ill. ·• 
To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 Email questions to KKloguc(iimagrancPl\,IC.com 

Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame$ directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
1£LB ~~;k, \l)rlve. 2)4 13~JJ 11J 



4G(;i£ 

Ask about our 1\'Jove in Specials! 
' 

Gather vour roolnmates and 1nove to one o{our large two or · three bedroom spacioU.\' apartmei11 homes. 
• 
1.5 Miles from campus 

• 
Dogs and Cats Welcome 

• 
Cardio Fitness Room 

• 
Swimming Pool~ Putting Green, Nature Walk & Outdoor Grilling Area 


• Inquire about our fully furnished apartment 
• Weekty, weekend & monthly rentals! Some football weekends still available. 

page 9 Friday, September 4, 2009 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 


Amerijet pilots on strike demand pay raises, bathrooms 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Flying a Boeing 727 around the world might sound like a dream. But pilots for a Florida air cargo compa­ny claim their job is a night­mare that includes no sick pay, shrinking wages and no place to use the bathroom on flights but a plastic bag. 
Sixty-two pilots and flight engineers for Fort Lauderdale-based Amerijet International Inc. went on 
strike on Aug. 27. Among their demands is flushable toi­lets on board. Their union has been trying to negotiate a new contract the past five years. 
Its Florida workers say they're suffering. On the pick­et line in heavy rain Thursday, pilot Dawn Leschinski held up an 18-inch green plastic bag. 
"This is actually the bath­room that we're expected to use on Amerijet airplanes," she said. 
Because full bags can't be 
easily discarded, they accu­mulate on longer flights, leav­ing a heavy stench. 
About 20 braved the down­pour outside Miami International Airport on Thursday, wearing their black uniform ties and golden wing pendants while carrying protest signs. 
"It doesn't make you feel like you're a professional at all," said Kamal Patel, a 37­year-old pilot who has been with AmeriJet 5 years. "You're treated like we're 
working in a third-world country." 
Amerijet spokeswoman Christine Richard declined to comment on the claims, but said the company's cargo service to cities around the world hasn't been affected by the strike. 
The privately owned compa­ny has 550 U.S.-based employees, but it's not clear how many pilots that includes. 
Workers say they're working under dangerous conditions. 
They said their days can last 18 hours, with only small periods between shifts, and that they suffer hefty financial penalties for calling in sick. 
Amerijet is controlled by a private equity company called 
H.I.G. Capital, which bought two-thirds of the cargo com­pany in 2002 from founder David Bassett. The Miami­based H.I.G. has $7.5 billion in assets under management. 
Amerijet's pilots and sup­port staff recently had their payroll cut by 10 percent. 


Welcome back students and faculty. Visit salonnouveau.com for student an~ faculty discounts and promotions. 
NEVADA VB NOTRE DAME 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE EVENTS
• 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2009 




12:00 PM-2:00PM 1:00PM-3:00PM 1:00PM-3:00PM 1:00 PM -3:00 PM 9:30 AM ~11 :30 AM 9:30 AM ·11 :30 AM 9:30 AM -11 :30 AM 
Father Malloy Dorothy Corson Connie McNamara John \M.Jkovits Mike Collins & Tim John Heisler Mark Hubbard McCarthy 
Book Launch Cave of Candles My First Words: Go American May I Have Your 100 Things... Forgotten Four 
Monk•sTale Irish! Commando Attention Please? 




3:00 PM -5:00 PM 3:00 PM -5:00 PM 3:00 PM -5:00 PM 11:30 AM ·1:30PM 11:30 AM-1:30PM 11:30 AM ·1:30PM Jim Dent & Blll Flesher Dick Vitale Mark Hubbard Sharon Bui Jim Dent Bill Resher 
Resurrection & Fabulous 50 Echoes Awakened Players & Moments Forgotten Four Future Domers Resurrection Echoes Awakened 
Friday, September 4, 2009 

page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
NORTH KOREA 




Uranium development adds to growing nuclear program 
Associated Press 

SEOUL -North Korea said Friday that it is in the final stages of enriching uranium, a process that could give the nation a sec­ond way to make nuclear bombs in addition to its known plutoni­um-based program. 
North Korea informed the U.N. Security Council it is forging ahead with its nuclear programs in defiance of international calls to abandon its atomic ambitions, the official Korean Central News Agency said in a report early Friday. 
The dispatch said plutonium "is being weaponized," and that ura­nium enrichment -a program North Korea revealed in recent months-was entering the "com­pletion phase." Experts had long suspected that the 
A South Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman was not immediately available for com­ment. 
The North's announcement came a day after a U.S. special envoy arrived in Beijing for talks with Chinese officials on how to get North Korea back on track with its commitments to nuclear disarmament. 
Stephen Bosworth, the special envoy to North Korea, was to arrive in Seoul later Friday for similar consultations with South Korean officials before traveling to Tokyo on Sunday as part of an Asia tour amid recent conciliatory moves by Pyongyang. 
His visit to the region aims to "continue consultations with our partners and allies on how to best convince North Korea that it must live up to its obli­gations ... and take irreversible 
North had a hid­"We are prepared for steps toward den uranium complete denu­
both dialogue and
enrichment pro­clearization," the
sanctions.,,
gram, which U.S. Embassy in would give the Beijing said in a regime a second statement.
Korean Central News 
source of nuclear North Korea
Agency
material. 

Uranium enrichment is a simpler method of building nuclear weapons than reprocessing plutonium, and it can be enriched in relatively inconspicuous factories that can better evade spy-satellite detec­tion. 
A U.S. State Department spokesman said Thursday night that he had no immediate reac­tion to the North Korean announcement. 
called the deci­
sion to push 
ahead with its nuclear programs a reaction to the Security Council's moves to tighten sanctions against the regime for testing a nuclear bomb in May. The report called the res­olution ~ "wanton violation of the DPRK's sovereignty and dignity." DPRK stands for the country's official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 
The North views its nuclear program as a security guarantee against what it claims is U.S. hos­tility and its alleged plans to attack Pyongyang. 
The U.S., China, Japan, Russia and South Korea have been nego­tiating with North Korea for years on dismantling its nuclear pro­gram in exchange for aid and other concessions. 

North Korea warned on Friday that it would be "left with no choice but to take yet stronger self-defensive countermeasures" if the Security Council continues the standoff, KCNA said without elaborating on what it meant by the countermeasures. 
Meanwhile, the North also said it has never objected to the denu­clearization of the Korean Peninsula and left open possibility for dialogue with some perma­nent members of the Security Council, an apparent reference to the U.S. 
"We are prepared for both dia­logue and sanctions," KCNA said. 
The North has long sought one­on-one negotiations with Washington on the nuclear pro­gram, hoping to raise its interna­tional profile. The U.S. has said it Lc; willing to hold direct talks with Pyongyang but only on the side­lines of the six-nation disarma­ment talks. 
North Korea walked away from the talks earlier this year. North Korea also conducted its second nuclear test in May, drawing international condemnation and new U.N. sanctions. 
The North's move also came amid its conciliatory overtures to Seoul and Washington. The North freed two U.S. journalists and five South Koreans, including four fishermen, in recent weeks. 
EL SALVADOR 

French filmmaker found shot to death 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR -A French filmmaker who spent years documenting the brutality and desperation of a Salvadoran street gang has been found shot to death after heading out to a dangerous gang-dominat­ed neighborhood. 
Police said a suspected member of the Mara 18 gang was arrested Thursday on sus­picion of involvement in the killing of Christian Poveda. a former war photographer whose latest fllm takes an inti­mate look at the violent lives of gang members deported back to the Central American coun­try after serving time in U.S. prisons. 
Police inspector Oscar Nuila Ramos said the suspect was detained north of the capital of San Salvador, but he refused to provide any details on what led to the arrest, saying he did not want to undermine the investigation. 
Poveda, 53, was found Wednesday inside a car in the rural Tonacatepeque region north of San Salvador. He was shot in the head. 
The day of his death, the filmmaker had set out to visit the gang-dominated area of Soyapango, just outside the capital. to arrange an inter­view with female gang mem­bers for journalists from a French fashion magazine. He told an Associated Press pho­tographer about the outing before leaving. 
Gang violence in impover­ished El Salvador fuels one of the highest homicide rates in Latin America. 
Poveda practically lived among members of the Mara 18 to create "La Vida Loca," filming gang initiations, drug use, tattoo session and funer­als. Pirated copies of the film are sold on the streets of the capital, and even Salvadorans consider the documentary to be a shocking glimpse into gang life. 
French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner praised Poveda's intrepid work, calling him "a respected journalist, a professional who never hesi­tated to take great risks in the name of freedom of informa­tion." 
In April, Poveda told the Los Angeles Times that despite the drugs, shootings, beatings and cruelty he captured on the film, he had sympathy for many of the gang members, whom he described as "victims of society." 
''As savage as they can be, they're people of their word. The ga_ngs are very well-struc­tured organizations and the decision made by a gang is the final one. From the moment I understood that, I had no problems," he said. 
Poveda, who lived and worked as a filmmaker and photojournalist in El Salvador during the civil war that began in 1980, had recently begun touring with "La Vida Loca." 
Salvadoran Public Safety Minister Manuel Melgar called Poveda's slaying a "repugnant and reproachable crimina! act" and said police would work "tirelessly" to find the killers. 


Meet the Author 

• 

St. Martin's Press and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore invite you to celebrate Jim Dent's newest book, Resurrection 
Jim will be at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore signing his book on 
Friday, September 4 
3:00pm* 5:00pm 
& 

Saturday, September 5 
11 :30om -1:30pm 
Resurrection is the story of Ara Porseghian, an unexpected choice for head foot­ball coach and the first selected from outside the Notre Dame nfamily." The task before him was not simple: to rebuild a once proud program and teach a team 
how to win again.  
A  
H  A  M  M  E  s  ~ j}J!~ A  
NOTRE DAME t,~  
For questions please call 574.631 .5757  BOOKSTORE  
IN  THE  ECIC  CENTER  
phone: {574) 631-6316 • wn.ndtolulog.tom  



THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dam~. IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO {574) 631-7471 
FAX 
{574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR·IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574} 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574} 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu . SAINT MARY'S DEsK acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 

WEB 51~~VE~ja~11NE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
O~rver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obmverpolicirs should be directed to Editor-in-Chiifjerm Maz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obsc:rva {USPS 59';12-4000) i. publ..h<d Mondoy <hruugh Friday exccyr durin~ exam 21td. ncatioll pcrioili. A .uh~riprion lo The ()bM:fver I$ $120 h!r one audcmic year; $6'5 for t;ne !CmCJt.cr. 
lbt-Obocm:r is publi&hcd a<: I'OSTMASTER 024 Sooth Dining lUll Se-nd addrm corrections to: Notn: O.mc. IN 465%-lln9 Th<Obscnocr 1\:riodiul pool"!\< paid •• NoiT< D•mc r.o.&.m and addiriorul mailing offiCC"L 024 South O.ning Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 465~779 

The Oboerv<r i< a member of the A..oocU<ed p..,.., All reproductiott righrs are O<JerVed. 
A library with no books 

Some people may have heard about a little petition circling the faculty and student body. Around a 1,100 students thus far, but who's counting? This pernicious petition requests that the Hesburgh Library augment its collection with more materials, making it more competitive with other (more pretentious) lead­ing universities, who are vastly outstripping Notre Dame in research materials. We have a stake in published materials and would like to make a stand for the little man we like to call jour­nalism. We'd like to oppose the insidious expansion of the monopoly on published materials held by the Hesburgh Library collection. 
We are resuscitating the courageous essence of the too long­overlooked Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890. In the same senti­ment of Sherman, we would like to give other homes of publication, like The Observer, a fair chance against monopolies seeking domination HIE 
through conquest of yet more written materials. OBSERVER And everyone who's been forced to take a philoso­But what the University and misguided petitioners phy or logic requirement course has learned to dis­must realize is that there is no need for new liter­count that kind of nonsense. The only situations in 

Editorial 
ary materials when The Observer publishes five new issues every week. 
Sure Hesburgh Library probably represents the epicenter of Notre Dame's academic community, aided an over­size Jesus, the name of University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, its numerous floors of great intellectual works and its remarkably nice and remodeled bathrooms. But not everyone can have Jesus and Hesburgh so visibly on their side. Really, the unlevel playing field here at Notre Dame becomes apparent when comparing the written works found in the Library and other campus collections of written works, hypo­thetically like the publications of The Observer collection. In this comparison the discrepancies are easily apparent, and it's safe to say that the publishing playfield here on campus is downright un-American. 
The lack of patriotism latent in this petition aside, there are also several practical issues that come to mind. Like do students actually use books? More specifically the books of the Library? In a recent small sample of 10 typical Notre Dame upperclass­men, only a collective total of six books had been checked out of the Library during their academic careers. Making up this sam­ple were four business majors, one Program of Liberal Studies 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
major, an English major and an American Studies major. Not great odds. What does this casual, non-confirmable (this sample may or may not have been The Observer Editorial Board), anonymous sample say about the average Notre Dame student's relationship with the Library? Not much. Honestly perhaps there is simply little to say. That's why so many unnecessary words (note: honestly, maybe, little) were added to the previous sen­tence. 
To undergrads, the library is the home of our favorite mascot, Touchdown Jesus. It's the inspiration for Shrek's castle. It's the "warm cut" that we take when picking up taxis at Library Circle to bar and parties in those brutal winter months. None of the above functions demand the presence of books. 
Of course, to be a library, the building must have 
a collection of books. But that seems like a which­
came-first-the-chicken-or-the-egg type of question. 
which it is truly necessary for the library to pos­sess books are scenarios involving research papers and exams. Most undergrads find these two aspects of collegiate life abhorrent. In fact, we spend half of the academic year, trying to suppress memories of fmals week. The other half is generally spent procrastinating with the ultimate goal of avoiding research projects necessary for our fmal grades. 
It seems that if the administration was being pragmatic, Notre Dame would simply eliminate those less desirable aspects the college experience. There are two possible ways to achieve a "happier" collegiate existence. Option One: Eliminate exams and research entirely, also eliminating necessity of a library collec­tion. Option Two: Get rid of all possible research materials (i.e. books), making it impossible to adequately study and prepare for the banes of academic life. Is not the overall happiness of the Notre Dame community not what is at stake in the struggle of our college years? 
So do it for the fair competition of America's free market. Do it for Sherman and his Antitrust Act. Do it as a stand against exams and research. Do it for the overall happiness of the Notre Dame family. Do it for The Observer. Whatever your motivation, just do it. Just say no to new books at the Hesburgh Library. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Madeline Buckley  Laura Myers  
Laura McCrystal  Jared Jedick  
Molly Madden  Chris Masoud  
Graphics  Viewpoint  
Jaclyn Espinoza  Michelle Maitz  
Scene  
Adriana Pratt  


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To avoid situations in which you might make mistakes may be the biggest mistake ofall . .. 
Peter McWilliams 
U.S. author 






Fr. Jim King on Sorin, Notre Dame family 
In this column, ..The Notre Dame "I went to Catholic grade school and "we simply don't correspond and com­summer beach house with all the They Know," I will interview individu­high school, and enrolled here in 1977. municate with one another personally cousins of a like age.·· als who have been inj1uenced by the There wasn't any other place that I as would have been the case a genera­This familial character displayed University ofNotre Dame. really considered." tion ago." itself dramatically last spring when 
I will seek to discover the unique role While studying as an undergraduate, "The biggAst danger for people that resident Kevin Healey, Class of 2011, that Notre Dame has played in their "the residential life and proximity of work here," he admits, "is that their succumbed to a battle with cancer. life and vocationaljourney. priests ... reinvigorated a vocation that loyalty and their knowledge about the "One of the proudest moments of my 
It is hoped that this column will I had thought about off and on for University are limited to their own par­life," Fr. Jim, eyes glistening, recalls, inculcate a deeper. more honest and years." ticular area rather than embracing the "was standing outside of the Basilica more profound love for Our Lady and After several years of formation, Fr. University and its mission at large." last May ... and seeing the dorm step Her University. Jim was ordained in 1988. He returned With the glimmer of a tear in his eye, out from the courtyard behind Sorin 
to the University for a final time in Fr. Jim considers the affection he has and walk to the Basilica in a double file 
Evening lays gently on the turreted 1997, and has called Notre Dame home for Notre Dame. line that would have been the envy of a edifice as students, enjoying the sum­ever since. "Number one ... I Jove Notre Dame general viewing a regiment. mer breeze, rock lazily on porch Fr. Jim's love for the University and because of the feeling that l share with "And it said to me that they got it. swings beside the front door. its Catholic Holy Cross mission is readi­thousands of people that have walked They got what Notre Dame is about. 
Passing through the sweeping arch­ly apparent. here. It's home." They understood the meaning of com­way and turn-"The essential characteristic of a "I think that this University is, in mitment and friendship: That here was ing right, past Holy Cross education," he comments, many respects, the fulfillment of Fr. somebody who worked harder at it
Thomas Bounds 
the toe-worn "is the recognition that we are here to Moreau and Fr. Sorin's educational than anyone ... just because he so statue of Fr. develop people's minds ... and that we philosophy of educating people in both much wanted to be at Notre Dame, and Sorin, a plaque are also here to develop their hearts, · heart and mind. so much wanted to be in this hall."
The Notre Dame
marked because it's ultimately fulfilling one's "In recognizing that what we do here Commenting on their fallen brother,
they know
'Rector' is heart's desire that should be the goal is a ministry to people. Fr. Jim concludes, "I think to myself found hanging of any person's life. "In cultivating the sense that, what­that if anyone knows what it's like to beside a door. "Ultimately, a Catholic university is ever job or career they may go into be an Otter in heaven, it's going to be 
Inside, wearing a sweater over an an extension of the Catholic mission of when they leave here, graduates will Kevin Healey. open-collared cleric, sits the rector of preaching, educating and evangelizing carry some sense of responsibility to "If anyone is going to look over them, Sorin College, Fr. Jim King, a middle­people in the faith, and the Catholic spend their lives discovering that, at it's going to be him." aged priest with a close cropped hair­view really doesn't make much sense root, we all share that vocation to min­cut and a no-nonsense expression that divorced from that perspective." ister to and serve one another. Thomas Bounds is a senior double gives way to a smile at the first sight of On the changes at the University over "As long as that's the case, then this majoring in math and philosophy. He a friendly passerby. the years, Fr. Jim observes, "The cul­mission is worth investing in, partici­can be contacted at tbounds@nd. edu 
Resting in a chair with his right fist ture of intellectual life for its own sake pating in, and being a part of in what­Fr. King's book "Known by Name: planted firmly under his chin, Fr. Jim and for a person's own intellectual ever way that I can be." Inside the Halls ofNotre Dame," begins his story. development is much more pronounced Fr. Jim's particular ministry at Notre chronicling dorm life on campus, is 
"I was born in Chicago, an only kid now ... we're able to offer a richer Dame bears its own unique rewards. available for purchase at the from the South Side. My father, a sub­variety of opportunities both in the ''Sorin," he comments, "is close to University bookstore on campus. way alum, went to work right out of academic environment and outside of the ideal of a home: A large, rambling, The views expressed in this column high school. Notre Dame was kind of a it. old, drafty home. I sometimes sit here are those of the author and not religion. On the downside, Fr. Jim comments, and think that this is just like one big necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Mistaken identity 
Spring semester last year, a group of Notre Dame students started a campaign against the "R word" to get us students thinking about whether what we say is what we really mean. Given this conscientious effort, I am surprised at the widespread and flippant use of the term "swine flu" to describe the H1N1 virus. 
This name for the new strain of flu was coined by the mainstream media last spring in a flurry of irresponsible reporting. While there is such a thing as swine flu, humans rarely contract it -if you're worried about swine flu, you must be planning on coming into extremely close contact with some sick pigs this fall. 
The new H1N1 strain is a mutation of that virus -the novelty of the virus is precisely what is scary about it. It seems trivial to quib­ble over the name of the virus. It is, however, not at all trivial. 
The loss of consumer confidence in pork fol­lowing the hype over "swine flu" caused U.S. pork producers (a significant portion of our already tanking economy) to lose an average of $7.2 million per day. The irony: Even if the pig that your bacon came from had the new H1N1 (hint: unless it's from Alberta, Canada, it didn't), you can't contract it by eating pork. 
The point is that thousands of vital workers in the U.S. economy lost and will continue to 
,/ lose millions of dollars this year for no reason 
,( other than ignorance -ignorance that 
I( I( spreads each time you use the term "swine
II 
II flu. " 
Paige Becker sophomore Ryan Hall Sept. 2 



What have you done for me lately? 
"Do it for Greg Robinson," my friend yelled at a couple Syracuse players as we leisurely strolled down the tunnel onto the field at Notre Dame Stadium last November. It was our last football game in the student section and we had obtained pre-game field passes from a well-connected friend. Greg Robinson, the Syracuse coach, had recently been fired as their team was mired in a horrific season that saw them fall to the dregs of col­lege football. The players turned around and looked at us, but we con­tinued on our way to the frozen tundra that was Notre Dame Stadium. 
like when Rudy first makes his way out the tunnel before the final game of his collegiate career, we stood on the field that day in awe of the beauty that is Notre Dame Stadium. It was the poetic conclusion to four years of living and dying with this team and we soaked in every moment of it no matter how cold it was. With marshmallows down our pants and field passes around our necks we walked onto the field that day pre­pared to enjoy it one fmal time, for all time. 
And then it happened, the Orange somehow managed to actually do it for Greg Robinson. 
The last image I have of Notre Dame Football is the Syracuse team joyously rushing the field and me putting my crazy disappointment face on with a weird hope that I would snag some air time on NBC when they needed shots of disparaged students. The next week l stayed home from a party at a family friend's house [actually it was a party at my friend's family's house] in order to despondently stare at the television alone in my basement as USC allowed Jimmy Clausen to throw for a whopping 41 yards (about the dis­tance that JaMarcus Russell can throw the ball while sitting down). 
Needless to say having devoted four years to following this team, literally following them around the country to cities such as Tempe, Los Angeles, Seattle, Chapel Hill, Boston and Baltimore; I was distraught. Where had this gotten me? What had they done for me lately? 
As you read this I am flying over the Pacific Ocean for a year of service in China, or I am on a layover in Seoul, or I am already in China, or (with any luck) my plane strayed thousands of miles off course and crash landed on a desert 

Bob Kessler 
The 17th Grade 
island with people as attractive as Evangeline lily, Emilie de Ravin, Maggie Grace, Matthew Fox and Josh Holloway [wait, scratch that, if Fox, Holloway, and the Hobbit are there I'll have no chance at tenting it up with the ladies]. Despite the fact that I can't say for certain when I will be where because I haven't precisely figured out the time change issues just yet, I have figured out that in the predawn hours of Sunday morning I will be sitting in front of my eight inch netbook monitor watching Jimmy Clausen and Co. take the field against Nevada. 
After all the pain and suffering, all the beer bottles thrown, all the silent car rides home and all the disappoint­ment, why in the world would I do that? Why would I go through all the trouble again when I will probably be disap­pointed? What has this team done for me lately? 
I will do it because tomorrow, the season starts anew. It doesn't matter if I was at 21 games during the worst con­secutive seasons in the history ofthis school. It doesn't mat­ter if I have been disappointed by this team more times than by I have been disappointed by Michael Bay films. It doesn't matter if I will be on the other side of the world by the time the band marches out. 
The traditions of these games forged my love for this campus when I first started attending games 13 years ago. These traditions took the choice out of my college decision and brought me to Notre Dame four years ago when I knew nearly nothing about all of the things that I would grow to love about it and its students. These traditions of Notre Dame Football connect my past to my present and future, and while they purportedly never graduate, I did, and will need them to connect me back to the place I know and love while I venture through the unknown darkness of my post­graduate existence. 
So while this team hasn't done much for me lately; they have in the past and they will in the future, and I will always be watching. 
Go Irish, Beat Wolf Pack! 
Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate that arrogantly considers himself to be the foremost expert on Notre Dame culture. He currently writes Things Notre Dame Students Like. and you can read more ofhis work at the17thgrade.com. He can be reached at bob020787@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



The Observer wants funny comics 
THE MOBILE PARTY Option No. 1 
Notre Dame was recently voted the 15th douchiest college in the US by GQ Magazin 

ANP' 
~RS! 

;..,-r '-•.a-;"" Pf'.,,...~ Wf'-L S"r~P C.o~~l.J!Io.W/I•Ur ~ NC"rl/tle 0-"-"41' JfErN6 OV'f"A'"r<4..,-.P IN -,ur ll.J>.Nft.llt/1.} 
T.I.N.D. Option No.2 
An~: you k1dding me?J? South 11> way better than North! 

Option No.3
THE INVADERS 
Dod, con I use the ship tonight? Sure. but no more that four probings. ""'  , ~--·  Sometimes you just gotto give kids boundaries.,, Yoh. ·' ~  

Option No.4
UNTITLED 
TOUCHDOWN NOTRE  
REAL  OAME!!!l  0  0 0 ()  
Gender  
Relations  
at NO  

Option No.5
LOCAL 

attempts at humor is deemed . lo be funny, we can al"Yays ·run a Su Doku instead. 

Su DoKu Option No.6 

page 14 
:. -~:­
·,,·.• .. 

By JORDAN GAMBLE was Dillon's hall president last Scene Writer year and a writer for the 2008 event that was ultimately can­
After 40 hours of script writ­celled. He explained that the ing, 10 hours of rehearsals show is a mix of intense and two years of waiting, the preparation and spontaneous Dillon Hall pep rally is back. energy. 
Dillon Hall senior Keith "It's much like the Keenan Ruehlmann is the head writer Revue, in essence, where we for this comment on year's edi­student life. tion of the There's nor­campus tra­mally a solid dition, which storyline: lit­was can­tle skits celled last about Notre year. Along Dame, little with other skits about writers and the world in the hall general that president, we act out to junior Kevin entertain Doyle, the entire Ruehlmann campus, has been McQueeney working on explained. the show Integrated since last into that for­spring. mat are spe­
"It's a lot cial guest of work, but speakers ­it's definitely l~?~~lilll usually the 
worthwhile," football Ruehlmann .....,_~....,...= 
c o a c h , said. Fr. Doyle crowd surfs at the 2004 m a y b e 
The show's Dillon pep rally. safety-absence last enthusiast year was jarring because it Officer Tim McCarthy. has been a campus staple on Football players from Dillon the Thursday before the first Hall -such as Brady Quinn home football game for so in 2005 and 2006 -also long. The official tally is a make appearances and the nice, round 40 years, but drum line, cheerleaders, porn Ruehlmann and Doyle admit squad and leprechaun lead that it is difficult to track the crowd in cheers. This down the date. This year, year, with a bigger audience though, the pep rally is on and a bigger stage, the entire Friday. marching band and football 
For one thing, the pep rally team will participate. hasn't always been held on the "The team only has 30 min­expanses of South Quad. In the utes to allocate to any pep early years, Ruehlmann and rally, so we're trying to tie Doyle said, the show was them into skits as best as we tucked into Dillon's courtyard can," Ruehlmann said. "We that faces South Dining Hall. want to keep it the Dillon pep As it grew more popular each rally -not just our guys, year, the stage was moved to [and then] a regular pep accommodate a bigger audi­rally." ence. The uniquely-Dillon ele­
Senior Brendan McQueeney ments include the customary stage-dive and crowd surfing by rector Fr. Paul Doyle and a choreographed dance by the hall's resident assistants that closes the show. 
Another of the pep rally sta­ples is "Crackhead," whose entire act consists of smashing plates on his forehead, usually in time to techno music. This mythic figure is actually Joe Parker, a 2001 Notre Dame graduate who first started obliterating china in the name of school spirit in 1999. When the pep rally was cancelled last year, McQueeney said Parker was still prepared for the show to go on. 
"He wanted to rent a hotel and have the pep rally there," McQueeney said. "He wanted to start his own school where he would be dean" to keep the event going. 
That kind of devotion to the pep rally begins freshman year. 
"We really use it Lthe pep rally] as a bonding tool for the freshmen, because we have it the first football weekend. It's a really good tool to continue that way, but the Pep Rally veter­


ans insist that the rituals form the dorm's identity. 
"The main point of the rally for us is to introduce the freshmen to what our vision of Dillon Hall is'," Doyle said. 
"It's like the passing of the torch," said McQueeny. "All the upperclassmen are in it, all the freshmen are watch­ing. You pick up the fever in it, you get pumped. The Dillon Hall Pep Rally really kicks off the season." 
McQueeney is excited and happy for the pep rally's revival this year, but also nervous. Last year's cancella­tion and the move to Friday night have ratcheted up expectations within the dorm 

"Crackhead" smashes plates on his and across campus. With no head at the 2005 Dillon pep rally. " officia I " pep r a IIy in the 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
Frosh-0 and that ideal of dorm Joyce Center this year, Dillon unity and bonding,·· Hall has to take responsibility McQueeney said. for pumping up students, 
The freshmen involvement alumni and football fans alike. starts with auditions for the Although the audience may "Teen Wolf," the pep rally's be bigger and more diverse stunt advertising mascot. this year, Ruehlmann said it Upperclassmen select two didn't figure much into the freshmen to take turns dress­writing process. ing up in a "I don't 
we r e w o l f or ,---.,..-------...._,--__.,,..--_.---....,....,~.,.,.,.. thin k it 's 
gorilla cos­tume and handing out flyers at cam­pus hotspots. Then, imme­diately before the pep rally starts, the freshmen will group in the Dillon chapel before Teen Wolf leads them in a run around the audience gathered on South Quad. 
lt might sound silly, and it defi­nitely looks 
going to feel any dif­ferent to the stu­dents," Ruehlmann said. "Our freshmen are still going to be in the front, the rest of the stu­dents are going to be sectioned off to be r i g h t behind them. The alumni will be out back JORDAN GAMBLE /The Observer t h e r e . Two students get close during a Onstage, 2007 Dillon pep rally skit. the majori­

ty of it will be the same skit show we've always done. It's still catered to the students." 
"The enthusiasm, even amongst the sophomores who didn't experience it last year, is overwhelming," Doyle added. 
"There's a buzz around it, especially in Dillon," McQueeney said. "It's so inte­gral for dorm community and what Notre Dame is all about. In my opinion, our academics are great, but the shining thing about Notre Dame is the dorm community and how well integrated everyone gets into the dorm." 
ContactJordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
'\..,,:;. .. 

Dillon boys dance on stage during a raucous performance at their pep rally. Look for more excitement as they hit the stage Friday for the first time in two years. 
JORDAN GAMBLE I The Observer 




By COLIN RICH 
Scene Writer 
The view from the Metro's balcony Aug. 7 afforded teem­ing youth, tight security and total pandemonium as one of the U.K.'s most prolific and respectable rock acts, Arctic Monkeys, garnered an impressive turnout from many faithful, if not insomni­ac, Chicagoans. 
Fresh off the release of their third album "Humbug," the new look, new sound Monkeys descended upon the Midwest for a two-day stint at the north side's Metro and, more notably, Lollapalooza in downtown Chicago. I man­aged to catch both shows, time enough to realize that like the title of their latest record insinuates, the band has opted to shun its pop influences and explore the far more intricate and mysterious shadows of rock in 2009. 
The Monkeys first captivat­ed Britpop fiends with 2006's "Whatever People Say l Am, That's What I'm Not," the fastest-selling debut album in UK chart history, and 2007's "Favorite Worst Nightmare," a similarly sensational sopho­more release. Racking up awards on both sides of the Atlantic, two gallant strides towards stardom garnered the lads from Northern England not only critical acclaim but also an interna­tional fan base drawn in by the band's punk take on gui­tar-rich pop anthems. Between 2007 and 2009, Monkeys' lead singer Alex Turner took a divergent musi­cal path, collaborating with The Rascals' Miles Kane to form The Last Shadow Puppets, a lighter, more sym­phonic ensemble. Turner returned to the studio in mid­2008 for the Monkeys' latest endeavor, "Humbug," whose riffs prove just as nuanced and lyrics just as caustic as the band's first two releases. 
Sporting new shags and a smoldering new sound, the Monkeys have added greater depth to an already broad rock catalogue. While their first two albums balanced an even mixture of rock balladry and vigQrous . singles, "Humbug" ·revels''ln a dense, Sabbath-soaked psychedelia. The album creates clear sepa­ration from the band's younger ventures as it sprouts a sensual and satisfying rock thicket for fans to hack away with repeated listens. The effects of the Monkeys' collab­oration with Queens of the Stone Age front man Josh Homme, who leant his elec­tric touch as the album's co­producer, surfaced in both live appearances. 
Both shows arrested audi­ences with the rhythmically entrancing opener "Pretty Visitors," setting the tone not just for the performances but for the arrival of the revamped Monkeys in America. The band took greater musical license and provided the most crowd­pleasing jams with their older material and wandering latest single "Crying Lightning." Due to the recentness of the album's release and its dras­tic departure from the band's seminal artistry, other cuts from "Humbug" proved a more challenging listen for many Monkeys loyalists. Nevertheless, the Sheffield gang delivered with an engag­ing energy and enthusiasm, and demonstrated a formida­ble confidence in their depar­ture from past glory. 
Whether the band remains permanent rock sophisticates or proves temporary pop misers remains to be seen, but even the biggest early­Monkeys Scrooge would be hard pressed to find the high­lights from "Humbug" at least a little compelling. Historically speaking, while rattling your fan base with a new sound always proves risky, many of rock's greatest remain memorable for a freshening deviation from what fostered their initial popularity. 
As the Monkeys climb to new heights musically and emotionally, a more consis­tent and contemplative sound proves better suited for a band looking to mature. This maturation translated well into a sprightly live delivery of a deeper, more complex new expression. Before launching into their second-album sin­gle "Fluorescent Adolescent" at the Metro, Alex murmured, "It's good to see you all again, Chicago. You've grown up!" It would appear so have you, Mr. Turner, and age continues to treat you well. 
Contact Colin Rich at crich@nd.edu 

Party in the USA -Miley Cyrus 
Fire Burning -Sean Kingston 
Notre Da~ Our Mother-Univer~ Notre Danw3 Band d fighting Irish 
4 I Gotta Feeling -Black Eyed Peas 
5 Down (feat.lil wayne)-Jay Sean 
6 Calle Ocho -Pitbull 
7 ~autiful -Akon 
8 One Time-Justin Bieber 
9 Patron Tequila-Paradise> Girls, Eve Notre Dame University of Notre
10 
Victory Mar<h Dame Band of the 
Fight Song fighting lrish 
As we all know, football season is upon us. What better way to 
celebrate and get excited than a 
CRANK ME UP pl"ylist?! This list 
. ~ .· ~· ' 
includes songs popular at NO 
parties this year {those Steds boys 
like their Miley Cyrus ...), summer 
jams and some classic Notre 
Dame-y tunes. Let's go Irish! 





SA Htlmbtlg ~~ 
·· an unsatisfying Arctic Monkeys Release ·.~ 
appointing. After hoping for an album even better than the last two, it's easy to nitpick. Upon further review, it has a lot to offer the Arctic Monkeys con­noisseur. However, if someone who had never heard of the Arctic Monkeys before wanted a track recommendation, it wouldn't be any of these. 
Humbug 
Arctic Monkeys 
Released by: Domino Best Tracks: "Crying Ughtning." "Secret Door," "Pretty Visitors" 

Contact Andrew Seroff at aserofl@nd.edu 

By ANDREW SEROFF 
Scene Writer 
The Arctic Monkeys have always radiated a casual vibe, through the butter-smooth slurs of Alex Turner, the under-pro­duced album covers and the sparse concert stages. These elements allow the band to suc­ceed at such a wide range of intensity-from the groovy mel­low "Riot Van" and "505," to the explosive dance rock of "I Bet You Look Good on the Dance Floor." Their third studio album, "Humbug," is no excep­tion. 
The Arctic Monkeys, who enjoyed sell-out crowds in their native England in the early 2000s, soared onto the global indie music scene in 200;i when they signed to Domino Hecords, an independent British record label best known in the states for signing Franz Ferdinand a few years before. Their debut and sophomore albums broke UK record sales, going quadru­pie and double platinum, respectively. 
While "Humbug" is still the Arctic Monkeys we've come to know and love, difl'erences from its predecessors are apparent. For one, it is the first full album recorded without their original bassist, Andy Nicholson. Also, it was completely recorded in the United States with work done in Los Angeles, New York and the Rancho de Ia Luna Studio deep in the Mojave Desert. 
For whatever reason, "Humbug" is the misfit third child of the Arctic Monkeys family. It doesn't have the nov­elty and catchiness of "Whatever People Say I Am, That's What I'm Not," nor the intensity and unruliness of "Favourite Worst Nightmare." It is a creature all of its own, com­posed of less rhythmic and lyri­cal variety, but more explo­ration into the timbre and orchestration of their sound. 
The first single, "Crying Lightning," is the staple of nor­malcy in the album. It starts with a quintessential Arctic Monkeys construction: stacking a bass riff and drum beat, then two sparse, intertwining guitar loops. When Turner comes in for the verse, however, we're left with a slow, uninteresting vocal line on top of the repeat­ing rhythm section. Luckily, Turner makes even the most underwhelming lines sound good. The pre-chorus picks it up a little, and escalates well into the chorus. The whole song progresses well, breaking down for a short guitar solo and a brief a cappella verse. It's no "A Certain Romance," but "Crying Lightning" is a well-built song that satisfies the needs of the fan. 
Where the. album strugg_les is breaking out of the 80 beats per minute, droning power rock. While the preceding albums had a good spread of rhythmic variety, "llumbug" delivers 10 tracks of continuous thumping. Which isn't to say they're 10 identical, bland tracks -they just contain the obvious similar­ity of pulse. While I wouldn't call this album the "Sergeant Pepper's" of the Arctic Monkeys, it is successful in its exploration of' the harmonic and instrumental depth of a rock quartet such as themselves. 
The track that best exhibits this newfound depth is "Secret Door." It begins with a striking riff that sounds like an accor­dion at a cafe under the Eiffel Tower. Turner tastetally sings over the lightly strumming gui­tar -his voice ringing with a gentle, reflective quality. As the beat picks up while maintaining the first motif. Turner's line bounces between reckless slur­ring and the dainty narration of the beginning. The keys and guitar are along for the same ride, escalating to match the alternating articulate and declaratory themes, eventually building to a significant climax without breaking stride. 
Initially, "Humbug," was dis­
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 4, 2009 
MLB 
Brewers dodge sweep by Cards with home run 
White Sox beat Cubs in interleague make-up game; Polanco's sacrifice fly in 10th edges Tigers past Indians 
Pinch-hitter Colby Rasmus
\ssodated Press 
walked later in the eighth, but 
ST. LOUIS -Rookie Casey was picked off by Vargas. McGehee hit a two-run homer Hoffman worked around Lugo's off John Smoltz after St. Louis one-out bunt single with one failed to turn a double play, out in the ninth. and the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Cardinals 4-3 on Chicago 5, Cubs 0 Thursday to avoid a three­Rookie Carlos Torres threw game sweep. seven crisp innings, Dewayne 
Manny Parra settled down Wise made a great throw to cut after a slow start and pitched down a runner at the plate and into the seventh inning for the White Sox beat the Cubs Milwaukee, which has won Thursday in a makeup game four of six. between two city rivals whose 
Trevor Hoffman closed for seasons have gone awry. his 30th save, striking out Torres (1-0), recalled from Albert Pujols with a runner on the minors two days ago, base to end the game. earned his first major league 
Smoltz (1-1), making his win in his third career start. third start for the Cardinals, He allowed five hits, walked allowed four runs and six hits none and struck out six.. over six innings. He struck out Wise, whose highlight-reel six and walked none. catch preserved Mark 
The Cardinals took a 2-1 lead Buehrle's perfect game back in into the sixth, but Craig July, made a strong throw from Counsell led off with a double right field to preserve a 1-0 and took third on an infield White Sox lead in the seventh. single by Frank Catalanotto. Jake Fox tried to score from 
Smoltz struck out Ryan second on Jeff Baker's single Braun, then got Prince Fielder but Wise delivered the ball to to ground into a potential A.J. Pierzynski, who was able inning-ending double play. But to tag the sliding Fox for the second baseman Julio Lugo second out. back of the Central-leading backer to Dempster and Cleveland rallied in the eighth. juggled the ball momentarily Baker took second on the Cardinals, who lost 4-3 to the Podsednik got caught between Asdrubal Cabrera had a two­and could only throw out play, but Torres fanned Koyie Brewers. After a disastrous second and third. Dempster out RBI single off Fu-Te Ni and Fielder as the tying run scored. Hill to end the threat. road trip, the White Sox threw to third baseman Aramis Shin-Soo Choo followed with a 
McGehee followed with a go­The White Sox added two in returned to town in third, Ramirez, who ran Podsednik tying two-run double. ahead drive just inside the left­the eighth, taking advantage of seven games back of the Tigers back to second and tagged him. Nate Robertson pitched six field foul pole for his 13th a key Cubs error. Gordon in the AL Central. Beckham, who took off for sec­shutout innings in his second homer of the season. He home­Beckham scored from first "I never thought we were ond, was tagged out by second start of the season for Detroit. red for the second time in when left fielder Alfonso going to collapse in two weeks baseman Baker in a rundown Robertson, who spent the first three games and finished with Soriano missed Pierzynski's fly. the way that we did because if to complete the double play. part of the year in the bullpen, nine RBis in the series. He also Paul Konerko followed with an you look at the lineup every has a 0.90 ERA since moving drove in the Brewers' first run RBI single to make it 3-0 and day it's a pretty good lineup," Tigers 4, Indians 3 into the rotation after his with a sacrifice fly in the chase Ryan Dempster (8-8). White Sox manager Ozzie Placido Polanco hit a sacri­return from elbow problems. fourth. Soriano had a cortisone Guillen said. fice fly in the 1Oth inning to Fausto Carmona allowed 
Parra (10-10) allowed two injection in his sore left knee Chris Getz singled with two give the Detroit Tigers a victo­three runs and four hits in 6 runs and five hits in 6 1-3 Sunday and had missed three outs in the second and went to ry over the Cleveland Indians 1/3 innings for Cleveland. He innings. He gave up a leadoff games earlier in the week. second when Fox -subbing at on Thursday. walked five and struck out homer to Lugo and Ryan After his miscue, what first base for Derrek Lee -The Tigers completed a four. Ludwick's RBI single in the appeared to be a T-shirt came dropped a pickoff attempt from three-game sweep and Curtis Granderson homered first before settling down, and flying out of the left-field Dempster for an error. Alexei increased their h~ad in the AL on Carmona's third pitch and improved to 3-1 against the NL bleachers. Soriano also was Ramirez then delivered an RBI Central to five games over the Clete Thomas added a two-run Central leaders this season. booed loudly when he struck single into left field. idle Twins. triple in the seventh. Carmona 
St. Louis loaded the bases out to end the game. Looking like a team that Ryan Raburn led off the walked Adam Everett and with one out in the seventh. The makeup of a June 16 went 2-8 on a 10-game trip to Detroit 1Oth with a double. Granderson before Thomas' Reliever Mitch Stetter struck rainout featured two defending Boston, New York and Rafael Perez (4-3) then inten­big hit. out Khalil Greene looking and division champs whose playoff Minnesota, the White Sox ran tionally walked Miguel Cleveland wasted two nice Claudio Vargas got Pujols to hopes have faded greatly. It themselves out of a potential Cabrera and issued an unin­opportunities against ground out on a 3-2 pitch. was the latest makeup for an big inning in the first. Leadoff tentional free pass to Magglio Robertson. With runners on 
Matt Holliday, who had three interleague game since Kansas hitter Scott Podsednik drove a Ordonez. Polanco followed first and second in the third, hits, brought the Cardinals to City played Arizona on Sept. 4, ball into the gap in right-center with a fly ball to center and Carroll bounced into a field­4-3 with a leadoff homer in the 2003. that would have been a triple, Raburn scored standing up. er's choice and Cabrera eighth. lt was his 1Oth as a The Cubs entered six games but the ball got lost in the. ivy Zach Miner (6-4) pitched 2 popped out. Grady Sizemore Cardinal and 21st overall. He out of the NL wild card with and became a ground-rule 1-3 hitless innings to get the grounded into an inning-end­singled earlier in the game for four teams in front of them. double. win. ing double play with runners his 1,OOOth career hit. They remained 10 112 games Beckham then hit a come-Detroit led 3-0 before on the corners in the fifth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
Looking for a quiet place to relax after the game? Charming rental unit for 2-4, beautiful view, free canoe and kayaks with direct access to St Joe River. Adults only, no smoking, no pets. See pictures on www.TheRiverGetaway.org or 269­815-3000. Great to stay for Notre Dame Events. 3 day minimum. 
Home for rent football weekends. Walk to stadium, sleeps 6-10. williamckelly@gmail.com 
Remodeled 2-bdrm house, less than 1D-min walk to ND. For rent or sale with guaranteed repurchase. 269-267­4008. 
ND vs MSU Weekend, Sept. 18,19,20. Rooms in Sacred Heart Parish Hall on campus. $400/per person two nights includes game ticket, bed, parking, Kof C Smoker, Lunch at Morris Inn tent, etc. All profits go to South Jersey Notre Dame Club Scholarship Fund. Email: Bi11Bums.68@Aiumni.nd.ed or call Bill Bums 609-368-1962. 
ATTN: GRAD STUDENTS/FAC­ULTY EXECUTIVE HOUSE 4 RENT 2BR, 2 1/2 Bath, LR, DR, SunRm, kitchen, washer/dryer, 2­car attached garage + security systems. Close to Notre Dame. Available now. One Year Lease ­Shown By Appt.only. 1-262-332­0015 (Cell). 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
Drivers: Co-Ratbed. 1000/oCo. PdiHealth Benefits. Home Weekends. Passport a +. CDLA w&los Steel Exp. 800-321-2733 x135. 
Drivers: Schuster Looking for OTR Co. drivers. Class A CDL with 2 Yrs. exp. Gocx:l Benefits & HomeTime! 1-800-831-4832 ext. 
1402. 

www.schusterco.com 
TICKETS 
Businessman buying season GA tickets. 574-277-1659. 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Toe Vlctorytickets.net 574-232-0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
Desperately need season tix!MSU, BC. Call 574-654-01681ocal call. 
PERSONAL 

EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT,Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www. act.org/essaystudy 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. Hyou or someone you love needf-confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND s website at: http:l/pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http :1/csap. nd. edu 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Silver ring with gold cross and anchors in or around Rockne. 
J. Denn esc 631-3999. 
LOST & FOUND 
Maintenance-Free Villa, minutes from the Golden Dome! Like new, one owner, very con­venient to shopping, dining & the airport! Well constructed featuring cathedral ceilings and thoughtful floor plan. If you are looking for a place to call home for a weekend, a month or forever near the shad­ow of the Golden Dome, please give me a call, I would love to show you this great villa! REMAX1 00-SUSAN ULLERY, Broker Associate (574)235-3446. 








OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, September 4, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WI.RE SERVICES page 17 
····--····· . ·········-·····--------.................... ------~-----------···-············-·-·····-·

--·--········-···-···-····························-·······--·--···-·-·-·········:::::::======:::::::::::::::::::::::::=::·_···-·_·······_·····-····-=-·=== 

NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA Division 1 Preseason Poll 
-------------------------------------------···········---···-------···· ·············································--··-·· 
NFL 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK-NFL com­missioner Roger Goodell says Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Michael Vick is eligible to play begin­ning in the third game of the regular season. 
Goodell met with Vick for 45 minutes Thursday before announcing his decision. Vick, recently signed by the Eagles, played in last week's exhi­bition game and was expected to play against the New York Jets on Thursday night. 
Previously, Goodell said he would consider Vick for full reinstatement by no later than Week 6. 
IN BRIEF Grieving Jankovic 
upset al U.S. Open 
NEW YORK-Jelena Jankovic felt as though she couldn't even watch the ball. 
The night before, her beloved grandmother had died back home in Serbia. That's where her heart and mind were Thursday, not on the No. 5 seed's second-round match at the 
U.S. Open that ended with a loss to Yaroslava Shvedova. 
"I was very sad and emotionally I was really not on court," Jankovic said. "I really tried my best to be there and to try to play, but it was really hard. 
"You could see I was not happy on the court. I was really suffering. I tried to think about my tehnis, but I felt like I was so late and so slow." 
Shvedova, a 21-year-old from Kazakhstan, won 6-3, 6-7 (4), 7-6 (6). 
Jankovic planned to fly to Serbia on Friday to join her mother, who left New York on Wednesday to return home. 
Vick was released from federal custody July 20 after serving 18 months of a 23-month sentence for his role in running a dog­fighting ring. 
"I think he's making real progress," Goodell said. "I think he has a better feel for the challenges ahead of him." 
ESPN.com first reported the Goodell-Vick meeting. 
The Eagles told The Associated Press that the commissioner met with Vick at the team hotel near the Newark airport. 
A three-time Pro Bowl pick during six seasons with the Atlanta Falcons, Vick was a surprise sign­ing by the Eagles on Aug. 
Rockies  closer  Huston  
Street  shut  down  
DENVER  - Colorado Rockies  

clos·er Huston Street has biceps ten­dinitis in his pitching arm and is being shut down for an undeter­mined amount of time. 
Street said he first felt discomfort Tuesday night when he threw a six­pitch ninth inning against the New York Mets in his first action in a week. He brushed it off as the effects of a weeklong layoff. 
He tested out his arm before the game and said it didn't feel any worse. But he couldn't get loose in the bullpen during Colorado's eighth-inning rally, so left-bander Franklin Morales filled in and recorded his first major league save Wednesday night. 
Colorado's 5-2 win against the Mets allowed the Rockies to stay atop the NL wild-card standings. 
Street, who has 33 saves in 34 chances, said he expects to be out a few days but no longer than a week. 
13. He received a one-year deal for $1.6 million with a team option for a second year at $5.2 million. 
Vick started practicing with the Eagles on Aug. 15, but did not travel with the team to its second pre­season game a week later in Indianapolis because he could not play. 
He played six snaps in Philadelphia's home game against Jacksonville last week, lining up at quarter­back and receiver. He completed all four of his pass attempts, but the Eagles offense scored just three points in the posses­sions he played. 
The Eagles plan to use Vick in their version of the 
Bruce Bowen retires after 
12 seasons in the NBA 
SAN ANTONIO -Bruce Bowen won't be pestering the NBA's best anymore. 
The 38-year-old former San Antonio Spurs forward retired Thursday after 12 seasons and a reputation as one of the league's most menacing defenders, hounding opponents with a tenacity that some players groused was more dirty than dogged. 
He called it quits after being waived this summer by Milwaukee, where the Spurs dealt him in a vet­eran dump-off for swingman Richard Jefferson -a decision Bowen said he understood. 
"You need to do things to better the business, and the Spurs defi­nitely got better in the players they received, so I'm looking forward to continuously supporting the Spurs, but from more of a distance now," he said in a news conference at his wife's San Antonio salon. 
.. 
wildcat offense, and coach Andy Reid has stated that Kevin Kolb remains the backup to Donovan McNabb. 
Vick's familiarity with the West Coast offense has expedited his learning process with Philadelphia. He's said that he's content doing whatever he can to help the team win and wants to learn from McNabb how to become a better QB. 
While MeNabb is an excellent scrambler, he prefers being a pocket passer. Vick always has been far more inclined to take off and run than stay in the pocket and find an open receiver. 
team  
1  Maryland  
2  North Carolina  
3  Wake Forest  
4  Akron  
5  St. John's  
6  Creighton  
7  Indiana  
8  California  
9  Northwestern  
10  UIC  
11  South Florida  
12  Connecticut  
13  NOTRE DAME  
14  Tulsa  
15  UC Irvine  
16  UC Santa Barbara  
17  Dartmouth  
18  toyota (Md.)  
19  UCLA  
20  Michigan St.  
21  St. Louis  
22  Michigan  
23  Cal Poly  
24  Boston U.  
25  Louisville  

points 
25 
24 23 22 
21 20 19 18 17 16 15 
14 
13 12 11 10 
9 
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 
1 
team 
1 North Carolina 
2 NOTRE DAME 
3 Portland 
4-< Stanford .. 

· ,95 ' Florida St.· 
6 Florida 
7 West Virginia 
8 Virginia 
9 UCLA 
10 TexasA&M 
11 Illinois 
12 San Diego 
13 Penn St. 
14 Purdue 
15 Colorado 
16 Boston Co liege 
17 Wake Forest 
18 Georgia 
19 Minnesota 
20 Oklahoma St. 
previous 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 4)<. 7 14 10 9 6 13 15 8 
RV 
18 20 
RV 
16 17 21 

NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Division 1 Rankings 
NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Division 1 Coaches Poll 
team  points  
1  Penn st.  1492  
2  Texas  1429  
3  Washington  1388  
4  Hawaii  1299  
5  Florida  1212  
6  Nebraska  1142  
1  Michigan  1056  
8  Illinois  1036  
9  UCLA  993  
10  California  921  
11  Stanford  904  
12  Iowa St.  854  
13  Minnesota  842  
14  Oregon  767  
15  San Diego  612  

around the dial 
NCAA Football 
Tulsa at Tulane 8 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Chicago Cubs at New York Mets 7 p.m., CSNCH 
page 18 Friday, September 4, 2009 
The Observer • SPORTS 

u.s. OPEN 
Teen Oudin upsets Dementieva at U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -It's not quite the case that 17-year-old Melanie Oudin and her family knew for sure she would get this far, this fast. 
Not when Melanie was 7, hit­ting buckets of tennis balls with Grandma Mimi back home in Marietta, Ga. Not a couple of years later, when Melanie and her twin sister began taking les­sons together. And certainly not when Melanie lost her first two Grand Slam matches. 
Still, there was Oudin at the 
U.S. Open on Thursday, ranked all of 70th, dealing with a painful leg and an overwhelming occa­sion on a supersized stage -and stunning No. 4-seeded Elena Dementieva 5-7, 6-4, 6-3 to set up a third-round match against 2006 champion Maria Sharapova. 
All the while, Oudin sported this word stamped near the heel of her pink-and-yellow sneakers: "BELIEVE." The idea for that bit of inspiration came from her boyfriend, Austin Smith, a 15­year-old who helped Melanie prepare for her Arthur Ashe Stadium debut by practicing together in the 23, 763-seat arena at 9:30a.m. Thursday. 
"During the match, I had confi­dence, and, I mean, I was right there with her the entire time," Oudin said. "She wasn't blowing me off the court. She wasn't hit­ting winners left and right on me." 
Don't, though, get the mistaken idea that Dementieva played poorly or showed the sort of nerves she has in the past. Dementieva played rather well -displaying the stinging groundstrokes that carried her to two Grand Slam finals and an Olympic gold medal -and gra­ciously gave credit to Oudin, who now will face the scrutiny that comes with being the "Next Great American Hope." 
After the Williams sisters at No. 2 and 3, you have to scan all the way down to Oudin to find the next U.S. woman in the WfA rankings. 
"It's just the beginning," Dementieva cautioned, "but it looks like she has a good future." 
Truth is, Oudin -pronounced "oo-DAN," owing to her father's French ancestry -has a pretty good present, too. This was not, after all, her first such upset at a major tournament: Oudin reached the fourth round at Wimbledon by beating former No. 1 Jelena Jankovic. 
"She knows," said Brian de VIlliers, Oudin's coach, "that she can play with these girls now." 
Next comes what figures to be a stern test against three-time major champion Sharapova, who eliminated another 17 -year-old American, Christina McHale of Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 6-2, 6-1 at night. The 381st-ranked McHale was a wild-card entry who didn't really challenge Sharapova. 
Looking ahead to facing Oudin, Sharapova said: "I definitely have to go out there and expect her to play some of her best ten-_ nis." 
Jankovic made another early departure from a Grand Slam event, losing to 55th-ranked Yaroslava Shvedova of Kazakhstan 6-3, 6-7 (4), 7-6 (6). Jankovic reached the U.S. Open fmal in 2008, and she was seed­ed No. 5 this year, but her head might not have been focused on the court on this day: Her grand­mother died Wednesday night. 
The losses by Dementieva and Jankovic mean half of the top 20 seeded women are out of the draw. No. 23 Sabine Lisicki also is gone, having left in tears as she was taken away in a wheel­chair after injuring her ankle at the end of a 6-3, 3-6, 7-5 defeat against Anastasia Rodionova. 
No. 1 Dinara Safina nearly joined the parade of surprising exits, turning in her second poor performance of the week before hanging on to edge 67th-ranked Kristina Barrois of Germany 6-7 (5), 6-2, 6-3. 
"Another tough day in the office," said Safina, who double­faulted 15 times, including three in the tiebreaker. "There is no problem in the technique or nothing. Just in my head." 
No seeded men lost in early action Thursday, when the win­ners included 2007 runner-up Novak Djokovic, and four Americans: 276th-ranked Jesse Witten, 55th-ranked John Isner, No. 21 James Blake and No. 22 Sam Querrey. French Open run-ner-up Robin Soderling advanced when his opponent, Marcel Granollers, quit during the third game with a back injury. 


Oudin twice received treatment from a trainer for her lingering left leg injury. Late in the match, Oudin was blinking away tears, trying to push aside the injury ­and trying to finish off Dementieva. 
That injury, de Villiers said, forced Oudin to pull out of two hard-court tuneup events. 
"But this is the U.S. Open," he said. "She ain't going to give up anything. She's going to play on one leg if she has to." 
No matter what sort of mes­sage might have adorned Oudin's shoes on this day, even her biggest fans did not think this level of success would arrive at this age. 
"This is what she loves. She just loves it. She loves the game. She loves the atmosphere," Oudin's mother, Leslie, said after giving her daughter a hug and a kiss outside the locker room. "I knew she'd always make the top 10 or 20. I did know that. But not now. Maybe when she hit 21 or something." 



MICHIGAN 

LAFORTUN~ ', BALLROOM 


FRIDAY 9/4109 
11AM~3P 



Students can bring up to 4valid, current, NO Student IDs to enter the lottery (one lottery ticket per ID). Awinning number makes you eligible to purchase up to two tickets for the game ($65 each) 
Check out sub.nd.edu for the winning numbers, which will be posted by noon on Saturday, September 5 
Friday, September 4, 2009 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

lnnatSaintMary's 
Hotel & Suites 

Availability for the following football weekends: 
Nevada 
Washington 
Connecticut 

For information e-mail tstewartcorwin@innatsaintmarys.com or ca111-800-947-8627. 

Availability for the following football weekend: Connecticut For information e-mail brooke.gallagher@hilton.com or call 574-232-7700. 
Olson was pro­moted to Jagodzinski's role and will take over play­calling. 
"I have a lot of respect for coach Jags, and what he did, and the effort he put into his work, but we're at the point now where we need to be more precise, we need to be more detailed 


No Matter Where Life Takes You... 
Notre Dame Federal Credit Union offers a variety ofoptions to access your accounts and your money, from FREE Internet Home Banking and FREE Mobile Banking to an ATM netlvork ofmore than 32,000 Surcharge-Free ATMs nationu1ide. 
Plus, coming this month, enjoy FREE text messaging account access. 
:,p74/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of the University 
Associated Press 
TAMPA -Former Boston College coach Jeff Jagodzinski was fired Thursday as offensive coordi­nator of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who have been unhappy with the progress of their passing game. 
First-year coach Raheem Morris offered a vague expla­nation for the abrupt move on the eve of the team's pre­season finale against the Houston Texans. Quarterbacks coach Greg 



Jagodzinski canned byTampa Bay coach 
'"We're at the point Jagodzinski now where we need said in a 
statement
to be more detailed 
released by
and we need to have the team. 
more direction on Morris side­stepped ques­
where we're going to 
,, tions about 
go. 
Jagodzinski's 
playcalling. 
And, he insist­
Raheem Morris 
ed the move
Tampa Bay coach 
had nothing to do with last weekend's 
Conference championship game in each of his two sea­sons there, but was fired after being told he would be let go if he interviewed for the New York Jets' coaching vacancy. 
He interviewed despite the ultimatum and was fired the next day. The Jets job even­tually went to Rex Ryan. 
Jagodzinski, 45, was offered a demotion to quar­terbacks coach, but declined. "I am certainly disappoint­ed but I wish nothing but the best for Raheem Morris and the en tire Buccaneer organization," 
and we need to have more decision to begin the season direction on where we're with Byron Leftwich as the going to go," Morris said. starting quarterback. 
Jagodzinski was hired in "I think Jags may be a bet­
January, three weeks after being dismissed by Boston College for pursuing an NFL head coaching job. 
At the time, adding an experienced assistant who 
was Green Bay's offensive coordi­nator in 2006 was viewed as smart move by Morris, who turned 33 Thursday and is the youngest head coach in the NFL. 
He installed an offense featur­ing a zone­blocking run­ning scheme and a passing attack that encourages ter head coach, may be a bet­ter position coach, to be hon­est with you, .. Morris said, explaining why Jagodzinski was offered Olson's old job. 
"We just didn't have the 
direction from the coordina­tor's spot, so 
"A lot ofthe things we offered 
him a position
remain the same. This 
on the staff. offense was going in But realisti­
the right direction. cally, it didn't 
make the most
You have got to give 
sense for both
Jagodzinski credit.,, of the parties involved." Jagodzinski
Raheem Morris 
led Boston
Tampa Bay coach 
College to a 
the quarterback to be aggressive throwing the ball downfield. Morris stressed that philosophy won't change under Olson. 

Offensive line coach Pete Mangurian, who presides over the running game, and assistant head coach/receivers Richard Mann will assume greater responsibility, too. 
"It's not a knock on coach Jagodzinski. It's just what we needed to do, the plan we needed to have," Morris said. 
"A lot of the things remain the same. This offense was going in the right direction. You've got to give Jagodzinski credit. He did get it started in the right direc­tion. Now we've got to finish off the deal with some of our other guys." 
Jagodzinski led Boston College to the Atlantic Coast 
pair of bowl 
appearances 
and lost twice to Virginia Tech in the ACC title game during his brief stay with the Eagles. 
He was an NFL assistant for eight years with Green Bay and Atlanta before mov­ing to BC, where he tutored last season's NFL rookie of the year Matt Ryan. 
Boston College athletic director Gene DeFilippo issued a statement when he learned of Jagodzinski's fir­ing. "It's unfortunate. All of us at Boston College wish Jags and his family the very best." 
Morris said he did not feel the change will disrupt Tampa Bay's preparation for the Sept. 13 season opener against Dallas. 
"When you talk about being in chaos, you're talking about not having a plan," Morris said. "The plan has not changed." 


Friday, September 4, 2009

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS 
NFL 

Jets defeat the Eagles in game that sees Vick booed 
custody July 20 after serving make it 38-27 with 4:51
Associated Press 
18 months of a 23-month sen­remaining. 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -tence for his role in operating Booed each time he ran onto Michael Vick might need the a dogfighting ring, will be eli­the field in the first half, Vick first two weeks of the regular gible to play Sept. 27 against has scored his first NFL touch­season to get back up to speed Kansas City, commissioner down since the 2006 season, before he plays again -for Roger Goodell said earlier giving the Eagles a 14-7 lead real. Thursday. early in the second quarter. 
Vick was hard-"It was good "They booed and that's part ly dynamic in to get him in of the game," Vick said. "At his first signifi­"/ still think rm a there," Eagles the same time, I felt some cant action in coach Andy love. I understand that that's
couple ofweeks
three years, just ,, Reid said. ''I'm part of what I have to deal hours after the away. sure he'll be a with and what any quarter­Philadelphia little sore back around this league has to Eagles quarter­tomorrow. deal with."
Michael Vick 
back found out That's OK. He'll Playing in his second game
Eagles quarterback 
he'll be fully have a couple with the Eagles, Vick lined up reinstated in of weeks to at quarterback, faked a hand­Week 3. He ran recover from off and ran up the middle for a 2-yard it." from 2 yards out 25 seconds touchdown, but was sacked Jets rookie Mark Sanchez into the quarter. It was really four times, lost a fumble and looked sharp, completing all the only highlight of the game was intercepted as the New five of his pass-after an impor­York Jets beat the Eagles 38-es, and capped tant day for 27 on Thursday night. his only series Vick, who met "I still think I'm a couple of with a 21-yard "It felt good to finally with Goodell a weeks away," Vick said. touchdown pass get out and get some few hours He finished 7 for 11 for 26 to Jerricho before the
snaps at the
yards, and carried the ball Cotchery. Danny game and was seven times for 35 yards. Woodhead, quarterback told he could 
"It felt good to finally get out making a bid to position. ,, play starting in and get some snaps at the make the team, Week 3. quarterback position," Vick ran for 158 Vick entered
Michael Vlck 
said. "I think I played fairly yards and two the game on the 
Eagles quarterback 
well. A lot of things I could've touchdowns. Eagles' third done better, but it was good to After David play from get out there and play some Akers kicked a scrimmage to quarterback on a consistent 36-yard field goal to make it a mostly boos from the basis and shake off the cob­four-point game, Erik Ainge Meadowlands crowd and took webs a little bit." threw a 73-yard touchdown a direct snap and ran 2 yards Vick, released from federal pass to David Clowney to for a first down. One play 
later, he lined up at quarter­the Eagles on Aug. 15. He back. played six snaps in 
There were no notable Philadelphia's home game protests outside the stadium, against Jacksonville, lining up but two fans made their dis­at quarterback and receiver. pleasure He completed known, one all four of his holding a pass attempts, placard that but the Eagles' read "Watch "They booed and that·s offense scored Your Beagle," just three
part ofthe game. At the

while the points in the 
same time, I felt some

other one possessions he said, "Vick Is love.,, played. An Eagle." Donovan 
Vick was in McNabb, Brian
Michael Vick 

and out of the Westbrook and
Eagles quarterback 

lineup in the most of the opening half, Eagles' other and was inter-starters didn't cepted on his play in this first pass of the first half. His one, while most of the Jets' toss intended for Jeremy starters on offense and Maclin was slightly under­defense played one series. thrown from 36 yards as Eagles rookie LeSean McCoy Dwight Lowery picked it off. gave Philadelphia an early 7-0 
He opened the second half lead with a 1-yard run. as the quarterback, but his Woodhead, who missed last feet also got him in trouble, season with a knee injury, had losing 22 yards when he tried a 55-yard touchdown scamper to scramble on third down in in the second quarter. He took the third quarter. He kept los­the handoff up the middle, ing yardage before he was maneuvered through traffic, sacked by Jamaal Westerman kicked outside and took off at the 4-yard line. Vick also down the right sideline to lost the ball on the play before make it 14-14. recovering. Kevin Kolb, who started at 
The Eagles were forced to quarterback, connected with punt, and it set up the Jets' Tony Curtis on a 12-yard go-ahead score as Woodhead touchdown pass to give ran for a 3-yard TO. Philadelphia a 24-14 lead with 
Vick started practicing with 1:03 left in the half. 

Home of the ori~inal BRT&Old Chicago Sandwich and thefamous Half Pound Bur~er Largest Martini &r in tnt area *Spcrts theatre Room lined with HD Plasmas Private Dini~ *Ba~1uets *Catering 
live Music ThursO~s 7·11 ~m ThanK ~ou StuOentsanO Alumni for ~our su~~rt! 
Ju~t) M'nut~~ rrom (amou~! 

ST. AD 

GumwooO ~oaO Half Mile Nortn of~~ LJ, Mi)nawaKa vi llamacri.com 574.277.7273 
.,.... 
Friday, September 4, 2009 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 

PGA 
•

Woods frustrated over putting tn Boston 
his backup putter. He prefers
Associated Press 
it to be 1 degree to the right, 
NORTON, Mass. -Tiger which slightly closes the blade Woods created a slight stir on impact. This grip was too Thursday morning on the TPC square, and the glue had Boston when a Nike represen­already dried before Woods tative approached him on the could twist it where he want­first tee carrying two putters. ed it. 
One was the Scotty Cameron He has several backup put­model that Woods has used in ters, which hardly anyone 72 worldwide victories and 13 ever mentions. majors over the last 11 years. "That's because I haven't That's the putter he was using needed it," Woods said. when he missed Woods is one crucial putt nowhere near after another "Every time we come panic mode on the back with his putting.
here, we think the 
nine at Even though he Hazeltine to greens are didn't win his lose the PGA undulating.,, last two tourna­Championship, ments, he still the same one in has 12 top 10s.
Tiger Woods 
his hands when in his 15 starts he missed a 7-on the PGA foot birdie putt Tour. Besides, on the final Woods felt more hole last week at The at home during his pro-am Barclays. round at the Deutsche Bank 
The other putter that Rick Championship on a course Nichols brought him was a where he has won and fin­Nike model. Woods studied it ished second twice. with a meticulous eye, leaning The greens at TPC Boston the putter on its toe as he do not have poa annua, the looked down the shaft.·. strain of grass found at 
Is the world's No. 1 player Hazeltine, which gets bumpy so frustrated that he is willing in the afternoon. The subtle to finally change putters? Is breaks do not confound him he fed up with missed putts like the ones at Liberty that cost him a chance to win National a week ago. the last two tournaments? · "They're rolling perfect," 
Not quite. Woods said. "They're rolling 
Woods was only checking great. I was telling Stevie the alignment of the grip on (Williams), 'Every time we 
come here, we think the greens are undulating.' Not after last week." 
Woods is coming off a per­formance memorable for all the wrong reasons. 
He made a late charge into contention at The Barclays, finishing with a 6-iron to 7 feet for birdie on the last hole that ultimately would have put him in a playoff. His putt never_touched the hole. 
It was rare to see Woods fail to deliver a key putt on such a stage_, which is one reason there is so much attention on this putting. He is averaging 
28.58 putts per round on the PGA Tour, an improvement over the last four Y.ears. 
Steve Stricker, among the best in golf with a putter, played the first two days with Woods at The Barclays and didn't see anything out of the ordinary except for the obvi­ous. 
"I don't think he made as many putts as he normally does," Stricker said. "The stroke looked fine. I didn't see anything funky there, not that I was really looking at his stroke. I guess we're just shocked when he· doesn't make one because he's made so many over his career." 
Woods attributed so many missed chances at Liberty National on putts that often broke multiple times before reaching the hole. He worked 
some on his short game dur­on the PGA Tour. ing his three days at home) no The top 100 qualified for more than usual. the Deutsche Bank (minus 

"I realJy putted well on the Paul Casey, who is injured), weekend, I just didn't make a and that number will be lot of putts," he said. "When pared to the top 70 players in you're lipping out a lot of points going to the third putts, you're not putting poor­round--next week at the BMW ly. Those greens were a tough Championship outside read for a bunch of people." Chicago. 
Woods has a hard time find­Woods is virtually a lock to ing much fault with anything at least con test for the $10 this year, except for not win­million prize that comes with ning a major. the. FedEx His five victories Cup, especial­are twice as ly the way .he much as anyone has played
"This last stretch, I 

else, and he still over the last
think rve hit the ball 

holds the No. 1 two months stop in the pretty good. " -two victo­FedEx Cup ries, two run­standings going ner-up finish­
Tiger Woods 

into the second es. week of the "This last playoffs. stretch, I 
The big sur­think I've hit prise is Heath the ball pretty 
. Slocum, who was planning a good," Woods said. "l've trip to Switzerland this week putted well in stretches. Some for the Omega Masters on the people have alluded to other European Tour until he won things, but that's not too bad last week at Liberty National. for my last four events. The That moved him from second­overall year has been very to-last place at No. 124 to No. consistent." 3, right behind Woods and He missed the FedEx Cup Stricker. playoffs last year recovering 
Players have been debating from knee surgery. The last whether Slocum earned too time he played the Deutsche many points, and they tried to Bank was in 2007, when he balance his rocket rise with tied for second, four shots , the notion that he did beat a behind Phil Mickelson. Woods field at The Barclays that took nine more putts than included the top 124 players Mickelson that day. 
GO IRISH!! ~·· ~~ our lJnique menu ircwns: Shantrock Bcnn\'...yununy eggs Benedict with an Irish flare~ our Desperado Skillet for the hardy appetite or our Fosters Pancakcs ...our fluffy cakes s1nothcrcd in hananas sauteed in our gooey butter!! Hours: 127 Soulh ~lichigan Street ]\Jonday-Friday 6:30-2:00pm DowutO\\U South Bend Sat -Sunday 7:00-2:00tun 574-288-Pf:F:P EATLIKE A CHAMPION TODAY!  ·;./''  

' 
I' I ' 
I'
I \ I'
\ 
Friday, September 4, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 22 
previous occasions, and lost, so I feel maybe we'll be third-time

St. John's 
lucky." continued from page 28 The Irish last sparred with 
the Red Storm in 2008 in a could be a make-or-break hard-fought, scoreless tie weekend for his team. between then-No. 3 Notre 
"This is a huge weekend," Dame and No. 5 St. John's at Clark said. "This is arguably the old Alumni field. The Red one of our biggest weekends of Storm lead the all-time series the year. at 10-3-4. Clark Having to play is looking for a top-five teams ""This is arguably one little payback back-to-hack is ofour biggest against St. John's a challenge. We weekends ofthe year. after last sea-
got off to a good son's tough draw. start on Having to play "We should T u e s d a y top-five teams have done some­[ a g a i n s t back-to-back is a thing with St. 
Michigan], and John's last year, now we'll have challenge., when we heavily to see if we can outshot them," follow that up Bobby Clark Clark said. "We'll with a couple Irish coach find out a lot good results." about ourselves 
This match against them." will represent the fifth meeting The Irish take on the Demon between Notre Dame and· the Deacons at 5 p.m. today before Demon Deacons, with Wake Sunday's 11:30 a.m. match Forest having won all of the against the Hed Storm. previous matches. The two last In spite of the challenge fae­met in the 2007 NCAA. ing his team, Clark said he Tournament, where the Demon expects to enjoy himself in Deacons won the overtime Bloomington. match 1-0. "It's always a great tourna­
"[Against Wake Forest], we'll ment and a fun atmosphere," find out exactly where we are, Clark said. "I think the team is 

· and where we measure .out, really looking forward to it." and what we have to work on," Clark said. ';In my time here Contact Mike Blasco at we've played Wake Forest two mblasco@nd.~du 

( 
li 
~ 
I 

011EN HOUSE 
Sunday ~ 9/06/09 -ll an1 to 1ptn 
738 N. '1\vyckenharn Drive South Bend, IN 4661 7 


Half mile south ofcatnpus Three bedroorns, 2bathrooms
Saturday, September 19 
it's the place to be the Friday and Saturday
starting at 7:30 a.m. 
Central air-conditioning

before aNotre Dame Game. 
Want to put on those 
Attached garage

• Autograph Sessions, marching bands in the fun? Come to the 
running shoes and join 
.Appliances remain·

and more! 
Hall of Fame for an early 
• Tailgate parties
morning run before 
Patn DeCola 574-532-0204

• Football Friday Block Parties: 5*9 p.m. Michigan State kick-off! 
the Notre Dame vs. 
Includes: live music, food, beverages, 
Cressv &Everett 
o' 

and give-aways
Register at www.salmonchase.org 
or call574-283-1115 


RF.HMtl< 
100

EXTENDED NO HOME FOOTBALL WEEKEND HRS: 
Susan Ullery 

FRIDAY: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Broker Associate 
3010 Hickory Road

SATURDAY: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 Voice Mail: (574) 235-3446 

SUNDAY: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Office: (574) 2.55·5858 Fax; (574) 255·3446

For more information visit www.collegefootball.org 
Toll Free: (800) 697·2824 www.susanuiler;.com 
tilF.,a;:~ ~~ ~~"'"""~~ ("~ ;,.~ O!w.tl*'l 

• Contest open to all NO, SMC, & HCC Students 
Winner receives: $250 Visa Gift Card sponsored by• 
Clover Village/Clover Ridge One student hockey season ticket 
• 
Deadline for Entries: September 21.2009 

• 
For complete rules visit: ­http://www.und.com/promotions/nd-promotions.htmI 

• 
Winner selected by Head Coach Jeff Jackson & Clover Village/Clover Ridge Staff 




,.. 
'; 
\. 



page 23 Friday, Seprember 4, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS 


Tar Heels 
continued from page 28 
"It is rather fitting for women's college soccer in general that the two best teams in the country are play­ing each other in a brand new stadium," Waldrum said, downplaying the meaning of the game to his team. 
The last time the two soccer powers clashed was in last year's NCAA National Championship, in which North Carolina topped the Irish 2-1. The winning goal was scored with only two minutes left in regulation time. 
"We definitely thought we had the ring on our finger, and then it was ripped off," senior forward Michele Weissenhofer said. "Being the competitors that we are, we will definitely hold that against them." 
The team captain's senti­ments were echoed by Waldrum. 
"It has not been a hard week to get them excited about playing," Waldrum said. "Everybody is ready and anx­ious to play. Practice has gone well [this week]." 
Waldrum said he thinks that the game presents an oppor­tunity for his squad to evalu­ate where they are at this point in the season. 
··vou know what, I think it's more of seeing where we are now and being prepared for the next time we play them down the road," Waldrum said. "As we found out last 
CLDVIR YILLABE 
A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 
formerly Turtle Creek Aparttrl8nts 
Football 
Game Day 
Parking 
Adjacent to Stadium 
520AJIDay 
Enter on State Road 23 Entrance (1 block west of Eddy) 
Walk to Tailgate and Game 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 
Ph 574.272.8124 
year, beating them early in the year doesn't necessarily mean you'll beat them at the end of the year. With that said, we've had this game on the calendar for a while now and we're excited about it." 
Waldrum said he expects North Carolina to utilize the same game plan against the Irish that has made the Tar Heels one of the premier pro­grams in the country. 

"Against a Carolina team you have to do a couple of things," Waldrum said. ··over the past few years we've been successful with them and we're sure they're gonna use the same strategy as always. We've got to break their back three [on defense]. Their three in the back are very good and very athletic and we've got to get in behind them. They lure you in and let you think that you have space, but they drop back and defend their space well." 
On the other side, Waldrum expects the UNC offense to put pressure on the Irish defense. 
··we've got to handle their pressure," Waldrum said. ·'They're more of a direct team, not much of a soccer playing team. They want to dump the ball in your end and make you make plays." 
The Irish first practiced on the new field at Alumni Stadium Thursday night after first laying eyes on it Tuesday night, when the men's team topped Michigan 5-0. Neither encounter with the $5.7 mil­lion facility helped ease the team's impatience. 
"Everyone is counting down the minutes until we can step 

onto that field and play," 
Weissenhofer said. 
In order for the Irish to avoid losing the first stadium­opener in program history, focus and fierce competition will be key. 
"We know whenever we play [North Carolina] it has not been pretty soccer," Weissenhofer said. "It really is who is going to compete and work the hardest." 
The Irish will also face off Wisconsin-Milwaukee (2-0-2) as part of the Classic. Kick-off is scheduled for 1:30 p.m. on Sunday, and will follow a North Carolina-Marquette matchup at 11:00 a.m. 
Of course, the marquee matchup is the first. 
The Irish seniors have played North Carolina five times already in their career, and the two teams met twice last year. Their first, and pos­sibly last, meeting this season will begin tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the new Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu and Mike Senior defender Haley Ford fields the ball in the 2008 National Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu Championship against North Carolina. 

MEET THE AUTHOR 



THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS AND THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE INVITE YOU TO CELEBRATE FATHER ED\NARD A. MALLOY. C.S.C:s NEWEST BOOK. MONK'S TALE 
FATHER MALLOY WILL BE AT THE 
HAJ\1MES NOTRE DA~1E BOOKSTORE 
SIGNING HlS BOOK ON 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4 FROM 12:00 PM-2:00PM 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSIDRE 
FOR QYESTIONS PLEASE CALL 574.631.5757 
lN THE ECK CENTER 

ph011e: (574) 631-6316 • www.lllkatalog.com 07001<8081009& 
& SMC Students with valid ID! 
4( . 
• I
i \ 
l \ 
q 
I \, Friday, September 4, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 24 
\' 
1\,. ' 
I 
( 
I \ 
\ 
\ 
l' 
r 
(\ 
r 
{ 
i 
I,, 
!)
J 
! I .)I 
·, 
I: 
!I 
' 
c 
i 
I 
I'
I< 
l 
ll
If 
if 
I 
1 
J,, 
" '' 




II 
II 
II 
II 



::.. 
\. 
., ~~ 
.~· . 
·.; 
,.




~ 
7'-!'Jtt".~ 
"'""' 

!· ! ~ 
) I,' 
' 
Friday, September 4, 2009 page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 
showings over the weekend 15 kills, respectively. Heading defense. We all felt we didn't together, but that she is confi­and were named to the all­Notre Dame's defensive serve very well [last week­dent in her team.
Ranked 
tournament  blocks is senior  end], and have worked  to  "I think we're just taking it  
continued from page 28 10 teams in a week's span. "All the teams have differ­ent strengths," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "It will be a really competitive weekend but we're really excited about it. Our goal is to win the tour­nament." The Irish had a strong start  team. Among a pow­erful group of Irish seniors, Dealy is one of the underclass­men making a statement on the court early on in this sea­son. She leads  ..If we are able to execute the things that we worked on in practice this week, then I think we can come back with ,, a wzn.  T a r a Enzweiler, fol­lowed close behind by Sciacca. However, there's always room for improvement. "We decided to work on the  reduce the number of errors on the court." Irish have excelled so far in the side-out game, reaching close to 70 per­cent last week­end.  "It will be a really competitive weekend but we're really excited about it. ,, Debbie Brown Irish coach  one match at a time, which is hard on week­ends like this," she said. "We have to be excited too. If we are able to execute the things that we worked on in  
to  their season,  sweeping  the  team  in  Debbie Brown  choices in  our  "It's hard  on  practice  this  
Denver and Stanford Friday and Saturday before a 3-0 loss to LSU. Senior outside  points with 34. Junior Kellie Sciacca and  Irish coach  offense and how we can get to be  the opponent when serving that you aren't able to put a string of points  week, then I think we can come back with a win."  
hitter Serenity Phillips and  senior Christina Kaelin have  smoother,"  Brown  said."  together," Brown said.  
sophomore  outside  hitter  also been central to the Irish  We're working  on improving  Brown said it is difficult to  Contact Meaghan Veselik at  
Kristen Dealy both had strong  offense this fall, with 24 and  our technique and passing on  play three games  so  close  mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu  

. .·. -... '. -. ' .... ~ .. -...-'111:--...: -t ...-• ~-.... .. .»· .··-'·~ ··­.... -~._.-­.. ' ~­... ~­-­_,._ -----~ ·:::-..... .. nl ¥· Pr~ ca-NV {Y01111 whereNeryowCt¥E?/. Visit Pray.nd.edu & NDPrayercast~org for daily pray·ers and gospel readings, and weekly audio Prayercasts and \ideo Masscasts. Brought to you bythe Office ofCampus Ministr_\· and the Alumni Association  


PF _._ 
\ 
.\ ~ 
\ \ \ 
.\ \ \ page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 4, 2009 
·\ 
:·\ 
\ 
I
. I 
) \ I 
\ Young
~ 
I I continued from page 28
I 
expected to carry the load, because we will need them to be comfortable in that role later in the year as the com­petition becomes more intense." 
Juniors Erica Watson and Theresa Cattuna, and sopho­mores Kari Johnson, MoJly 
Steele 
continued from page 28 
"From an attacking perspec­tive I have high expectations from Micki Bedinger, Sam Smogor and Katelyn Tondo­Steele," Crabbe said. "In addition, Colleen Ferguson, \ Jess Slean and Keely Noonan 
\ 
.~ 
bring a full season of playing
·~ ,-_:_ .... 
!together in the midfield this \ , year. On our backline we ·see . two new faces, Corissa Hart and Taylor Paton, joining Ronanyne and Michelle . Marshall. Also, we get Katie Wehrli back in 2009 after she missed much of 2008. I expect every player on our roster to contribute this fall." 
Senior Katy Durkin also scored a goal for the Belles in the game against Holy Cross . 
..... :· Crabbe noted that he wants ·to see his players take more responsibility for their goals ,in each game. The Belles dropped eight of their con­tests last season that were . decided by only one goal. ', The Belles are also count­ing on seven freshmen to fill 
. ·"'i­
'in the gaps on this year's ros­
' 
~ . 
Hirt and Susanna Sullivan are all expected to stand out at Friday's meet for the women's team. Juniors Spencer Carter, and Ryan Gamboa, and so ph­omore Kelly Lynch are expected to be top names in the men's division. 
The women's race begins at 6 p.m. today and the men will follow at 6:45 p.m. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
ter. 
"We have players coming from GRorgia, Kentucky, Ohio, Illinois, Missouri and Indiana," Crabbe said. "They have done quite well so far. There are two in particular who will be called upon to start and contribute right away. We have added depth at goalkeeper as well which was by far our biggest priori­ty coming into 2009." 
The Belles will turn to sen­ior Bridget Ronayne to lead the defensive squad this sea­son. 
"Bridget is a very mature player on the field," Crabbe said. "She is a good leader and her teammates respect her. Her success playing in the back for us comes from her ability to read the game and make good decisions under pressure. She is very good at minimizing mistakes which is key as a defender." 
The Belles will face Centre College on Saturday at 7 p.m., and then face Transylvania on Sunday at noon . 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Friday, September 4, 2009 page 27 
The Observer+ TODAY 

CROSSWORD 
Across 1 ..__ better be!" 
6 Factory staple 9 Abbr. in a "works cited' list 13 '"I'm not done 
yetr' 16 It's passed on 17 Oscar· 
nominated portrayer of Frida Kahlo 
18 Discipline 19 Financial statement abbr. 20 Reason to make a prank call, maybe 21 What a player may mean by knocking on the table 
22 Relatively close 
26 Subject of the 
1955 film "The last Command" 28 Baby shower gift 29 Band members with long necks? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
59 Not be a nobody 60 Passage enabler 61 Not natural 62 Bond 63 City in 1917 
headlines 
Down 1 Minute, 
informally 2 "Not_!" 3 Wasn't full of 
holes 4 The Adriatic vis­a·vis the 
Mediterranean 5 Red-handed 6 Helen Thomas in 
the White House press corps, e.g. 7 Boning point? 8 Cry of surprise 9 March on 1 0 11 contains 613 mitzvot 
11 "..,love's shadows_ rich in joy!M: Romeo 
12 ofall 14 Onetime C.t.A.~ backed foreign leader 15 Plumber seen in 
an arcade 
21 Mayo sauce? 
23 Computer debut of1998 
24 They might store 
electric charges 
25 Nike rival 
26 Part of M.PAA.: 
Abbr. 
27 Slimming option. for short 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzz:lir by Mi!<e ~thnagal  
30 Fast Eddie's  41 Like many  49 Independent,  
girlfriend in "The  beachgoers  noble types, it's  
Hustler" 32 It might store an  43 Single·_.  said 53 Typist's position  
electric charge  44 Become  54 Remains  
33 It's often piercing  rapturous  56 It comes after  
34 Vultures were sacred to him  46 Product of glacial erosion  the last number 57 Troglodyte  
36 Refuge  47 SquMe things  58 "My baby at my breast" in  
38Cardinal  48 Make rapturous  Shakespeare  

For answers. call1·900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1-800·814·5554. · Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888· 7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.comtrnobilex:word for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles, oytlmes.com/crosswords (S39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comfwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimas.com!learninghcwords. 
HoRoscoPE EUGENIA LAST 
CEI..EBRITmS BORN ON TillS DAY: Kimn Des:1i, 38; Ch:ulit­Sb('(~•\. 44; V~k·n<' f't-crinc-, 66; Eu('C"tl Br<'lllllW, T! 
Happ>' .Birthdstv: The mon' you ~t'fl:lC~U(! voursdf (rom the nowd, ds~ 
bt>1t•"r. PrE'~nl \\:itb coniidcnct• wh>~ttwcr \oOU wam lo pnr~uc" You h~ve a 
good plan 1111<1 vtH.h' ~:J\11111 WliV of apptoll~h.i.n~ whak\·cr wm kd will hcing 
you gnod cE<sulh ~ho. 1ltt be surti~·i<"tll to l'el tllliws ofi thi vcound. ~t Vt.>Ur 
(:()\lnt' t(Jt" t\t~Uft' ~flt:(:~s.. )"(>llt Hflllll:>t'r;'~ff' 9. f't, t5, 23. ':\7, 40,42 , 
ARIES (Maoch ZI·April 19); Talk~ willlc-;~d t() :t h(•tt"'f rd:ttionship with 
t"ri~nds, lovt<rl' :lnd \'Ollr 1-"-"t'fi. Bt> O{W"II ~bout the wstv you t"'et>l cmd lto'\\' \"01.1 
~~~ lhifW,.~ ttulolding in 1Jw titttut-. 'nl" mp11t yen~ g.-t 1t4d: will h·"IP nn1 · 
t'5lablish "-'h<lt )'0\1 should do lWXl. *** 
TJ\lJIUJS (Apri! :.W·Mny 20): G(•t involw·d in ~om.-r.luug rou t't>E>I mougly ~tKml· and )'<Ill wdl m>~.I;;P ~ 'hfkH!ll(.l'. l1lt: \l:llCIWif.'t.h~~_fltl{f (!~}W~W~H:t~. \'01.1 1r.am '1.\'IU hdp you 111 vum p11'~~on~l .tnd lnt~Jilf'~S hh~. .I aking >idJ<>Il '-\'tll ~how (>t.h•~r~ 11~11 yoit ~n~ ~·up::. hi<~ of bdng ~~ ~~~~d"r * * * * 
(iHMINI (May 21:-Junc 20): You t·onld o.>!!s.ih". makr a mist:~kE• if >'Oilllfo.> 
roo f:l\•mg ot your nuw, mouE'}" nr s.k1lls. Br tlll..mr, ~ profE<s~trm~~J ~ppr<><Kh, 
you st.tnd !I hl'UN dUtliCf' of!!f'ltmg a J>fOfK)~ru dlllt will t:omp~>tl~lltE< you ruui 
allow yotl lo bdp a (;anse youl:w..l11~·~ ut. * * 
CJ\NCER (Jun~ 21-Ju.ly 22): You may hE< pu1 iu om a~·k<.\·:ud po~itit>111f . ~ulll~'?lll' want~ you to do somethmg that 1S a huk dll)o.>r(•llt or roo t>l<Otlc tor WKt. ~licking amtmd home t.•au l:lf' ttm Il wm pllln to do dun~ W1th M:nlleouo.> ~·ho m~.111~ 'somethina to •·ou. Don't itf(.>tw, <tat do wllflt smts \'OU best.
*** ~ I ~ I 
• 
LEO (luly 21-Aug. 22): You c::au c::ornE' up wnh sotrlE' moneyrn;~.kiny,. id"';~~ if VOII loo"k «t whllt ~·~m ha\·r· aud what YOtl c::au use ro SN'VICE' oth•~•·s. 1 our eut"'ttll.il1i.ng f*l~()ti$1ht)' will captlltP. ~OiiH~one'$ .illte.w~c YOii will twnetll. tinm an unusual sourcf.. ** 
VlRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Dm1't I«!WC anvtl:ting to chan«.l.ook at !•\'etv mt'>l.us a\·~;labl(" ill Mci(>.r to ~et l:ht-upper hasid f:ll:Ot~~i(~naU\•. J.>ecfN:tiou o1t:id det.ttl will emml ::md willll'll<1 to a bel:tt'r po~itlon in dw t"'td.<** * 
LIURl\. (.Sept. 2.,l-(")~'•· 22): Y~)tl ~l10ukl d.o. ~onu~tl?u!~ nkc~ ti:11· ~~mc~df, .Buy50rtwduug 1:hllt will m.sk(• you h't•l good or s1gu up tor ll ~~ollfM' tl1at wdl m1se yotU" ~df·E'~tet'lll ur euluni7e ~'<Jtlf ~kill~ I...ov,;. is 011 dw r.i.~~-***** 
SCORl~JO (Oct. 2l~Nov. 21): You'll hllve ro watrh what \-oU do,~-iind prooJ•'-~' !It.bOIU{• or topti'<:>plt> wirh whom you ll.ft> J"'t!\on!!lly contmt•tmg. Don t l~M~\"f' annhulg lo dw 1n1agmarum.. ()vet'>J>E"~udmp,. oW'tdmug :wd o\'~t consuming win llll wad to lo!\s. ** 
SA(;('ITARil.lS (Nov. 22-_l)~. 21): ·n1ink bdorf"_you spe~k., An emotion>J.l SIHial:Kil"l WIJ! c~I!M.• \'OU gnte<f: lt \"Qti lll~k"' :o1 pr<~n:ll$~ Ul the ht>!lt ot the moment Kt>ep thing~ horlli'St o1i1d u•bllin ftom committing to $Om..thi•lg !hat you kttOI.>' ~'(IO will uor dtl. ** 
<:APRICO~N (Dec. 22-lan. 19)~ You are sifTing iu a p;o~xl p<.hJt!on, so be pr~>rxa~:! to tollow thc·oaef1 even of ;t mP:.hiS somMxle efio:· s tos-s. '\ ou hi-lVt> f>litwd ~ El.ir e-amf:' >tnd it'rtam<" m ..-oUect wh9t's owN1 w ~~)It l)(m'1 give tn to ~Otnt'Otlf> uy£ug to phy nn }'Ollf E'nlOtiOil~.. * ** * 
AQUARJUS <J•tn. 2<1·Feb. 18): Fab~ pwh!n~~ willl(-.ld m ~ p:Utmg of t1w Wll\"!> Jx.tWe<:"ll YOU and ~OHl("()rlt' >oH <'!Itt> :aiX)!H. Bt> ~ead\' to t:OUljX·rt5llte ~o1iu~onc \'OU Jilted. vno·n tf it w~; unmte-mion~.L Chlri"· ti:uctl\' u·flJil \'Oll ha\·t> ro oiter. *** · · · 
PISCES (l'eb. 19-March 20): Ym1'U be t>motional r<>~ard.inr, a rt-btionslup ~nd bow n:>u aH' twing ue·,ued. Cou~ickr vour uwnllctlon$lx•f<.m• rou poim the finger o1t somcOJtt' t-l~e. Don't. fNid ovt>r stupid. tr:ivi:~t atmor!mCt'~-*** 
Birthd~ty Babr; Yqustn' ~ !ake-ch:tr?t').Hdi,·idunt You.wil! st11nd up tor yourbd~ch ~md 'lf('H t: ah:>l•d w hght back.) ou ll't> .\l hum:~Jut;w,tn and a 
U'{Ortlll$1.. 

31 Many students on ~Gilmore Girts• 
32 lt's 11 miles 
NNW of JFK 35 Something not on the menu 
37 Roll top? 39 Certain correlative 40 Really appeal to 
42 Early TV news commentator famous for doing Timex: ads 
43 Heads up 
45 Makes scarce 46 Where a fouled 
player might go 50 Crystallizes 51 Passage 
blockers 
52 Stars participate in it: Abbr. 
55 Pendant option 
56 Comics 
character with a 
"gang'" 


I....W IO think oi mys.elf"" .. ,,......., • ., \'icll J>1tdd5ul ..,.h.. n C<""'--h bn.-..'lthl ..... t"'"""·ILn.,..-"""'"".,...<>f Ul)' <.)Wn. AOO mr '"""pad(... ·~ g ... wby I. So.> u.........tt. ..... ""'"' ..,.,<JI ... "' !!.. owll p.od<.•• l WO> .,,.....,. 00!1 in lhe ~~k. all<ltll<'ll (<»ell jllir>e<l in l*r. And :tY"<•r• ~.,,wt.,n (';OOCb inm Jdt":<?d ""' 1<S Y<..U ~V}-..Irh<;u~ht, 'Wait a S«"<JM.e«~ld if lx-""Ami M>' I~mlW f<>( !lllf<\i i"'" ;odd..! fo!l m<lre lfU)I:' to my W<'~ I ~jt.ti() <>! U$ 'II'~. Hltlllil>!l iltnl~tld the a<tnfirlth l(ljltil><'f, in !XMh !kn<4. k.'<11oit!R 1tJo MtiPI"'~" ~nd <'-OChille.S.> l<><lil/ht.i ""'"'' ll ~·>Mf' 
0 
~-........ 
!\ ,_ '1
\ v J... .. 

. ·~'-·( re~ 

~/~/~~/~q /~~,~ X~/~~,~­
JUMBLE 
~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter tc each square, to form four ordinary words. 
rAt~ rJ
1 
•i,N?009 Tribune Med1a Services. Inc. All Rfghts .Reserlled. 
[ ROlUG I
I J (] 
(] 

NEW~ lPtroe ~go to www.bit.lyll~ 
IINDATE I
[ J I (J 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

Nuw arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 

SCHAD & FREUDE 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 

!!.:ow 'i..:"" tha~ tiok in' Ifll«""' d1<0t~ ~·th<,-y ~-41111 llil> ~'ity.. y,.., !N~• "'i!lf>t ""'tt."'-thio..bu\ I~'"""d"" m~"Jdl" hi! ol,, ~>ll<"r. 
Answer: AN 
" rI I I I )" (II ) 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's  j Jumbles:  LOUSY  GUILD  PLENTY  COUPON  
Answer:  The golfer left the library because his slacks  
were  -TOO LOUD  



THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ________________________________________ City __________ State ____ Zip___________ 


.1~ ND CROSS COUNTRY 
;.)'i\ 
~l Runners to start off season at Valpo Crusader Open 
~j 
they will encounter this season summer, the runners have been ing hard at distance training up for the remainder of the sea­
By MOLLY SAMMON and an excellent chance to preparing daily with the chal­and not focusing much on inter­son as it gets tougher and more 

Sports Writer 

place in first for a good boost to lenges of this season in mind. val training. The coaches said competitive. ,, 
carry on through the duration "Our runners have been that some of the members from "The group that will compete'7'1 The 2009 season opens for of the season. training since the end of the each the men's and women's are people who weren't in the
:.<~
•rK 
both the Irish men's and "This is a very low-key meet, outdoor track season for the teams have been running 75 top seven last fall, but certainly'.\1 
' 
: .~ 
women's cross country teams and the only time we're running fall," women's coach Tim miles a week to prepare for this have the potential to be contrib­today as they travel to Sunset a six-kilometer race," men's Connelly said. "So far, most of season. utors this year," Connelly 
'I 
'I Hills Park in Valparaiso, Ind. for coach Joe Piane said. "We nor­our work has been general con­Friday's opening meet is a said. "I want to put these people 
"I 
.,. the Valparaiso Crusader Open. mally run an eight-kilometer ditioning work, with very little chance for both teams to use in the position that they are .II In terms of competition, both race. It will give the guys a race-specific work to date. That some of their less' experienced being counted on as scorers and 
~ 
teams are looking at Friday's sense of confidence." will come later in the season." runners in order for them to get meet as one of the easiest that Since the beginning of the Both teams have been work-a feel for how they will match see YOUNG/page 26 
I 
.~ 
;: 
'} 
:~ 
·~ 
I. 
( 
,, I• (I 

' 
I I I 
1­
, 
'I· 
I 
,,1­
I• 
I,­I· 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles continue season at Centre 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's (1-0-0), coming off its first win of the season over Holy Cross on Tuesday, will travel to Danville, Ky. to play in Centre College's tour­nament. 
"I am looking for a good competitive attitude from all of our players, regardless of their role on the field," Belles coach Ryan Crabbe said. "Our energy level when we defend will be important. Finally, we 


IRISH INSIDER 
as beat writers Bill Brink, Matt Gamber & Sam Werner preview Saturday's 9ame against Nevada
PODCAST 
need our attacking players to take greater responsibility in front of goal this year. In 2008 we spent too much time wait­ing for one player to score all of our goals. This year we have quite a few players capable of contributing on the score sheet." 
Sophomore Katelyn Tondo­Steele scored a goal for the Belles in their game against Holy Cross, and Crabbe said he is looking to her to be a force for the team this season. 
see STEELE/page 26 

Check out The Observer's Irish Insider podcast at ndsmcobserver.com/podcasts 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

No. 7Michigan awaits Irish in Cincy 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
After opening the season with two wins and a loss in the Shamrock Invitational, the Irish head to Cincinnati this weekend to face another three challengers at the Xavier Invitational. 
Notre Dame (2-1) will go up against Xavier, Tennessee and No. 7 Michigan. Their match against the Wolverines, along with their 3-0 win over No. 5 Stanford at the Shamrock, will be the first time since 2007 that the Irish have taken on two top-
see RANKED/page 25 


,. 

' ' 
. 

' 
•I 
('' 'i:: 
.. 
• 
~j 
~ ~.
..{.. 
:. ~' \
.w• 
.~; :~-­
rJ(. 

-~· 
I . 
Friday, September 4, 2009 
ND SoCCER 

No. 2. Irish women to play No. 1 Tar Heels 
By DOUGLAS FARMER and 
MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writers 

Notre Dame opened Alumni Field 19 years and two days ago with a 5-1 victory over Northeast Missouri State. Irish coach Randy Waldrum coached his first game on the Irish bench 10 years and one day ago -a 3-2 overtime loss to No. 1 North Carolina. 
Tonight Notre Dame looks to re-write history as the No. 2 Irish (2-0-0) face the top­ranked Tar Heels (3-0-0) at 
7:30 p.m. in the women's first game at newly-opened Alumni Stadium. The game is part of the Inn at St. Mary's Classic. 
see TAR HEELS/page 23 
-----~~------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
p 


page 28 




Good, Better, Best 


Men to take on No. 3 Wake, No. 1 St. John's 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are rJding high after Tuesday's 5-0 drubbing of No. 21 Michigan that inau­gurated the new Alumni Stadium. But Notre Dame may get ripped back to earth with two matches against top-five teams this weekend. 
The No. 10 Irish travel to Bloomington, Ind., today to take on No. 3 Wake Forest at the Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic. On Sunday, Notre Dame will clash with No. 1 St. John's in an unofficial Big East showdown. 
Ninth-year Irish coach Bobby Clark said -he realizes that this 
see ST. JOHN'S/page 22 



page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 4, 2009 
COMMENTARY 
New mantra for ND: justwin, baby 
When it comes to team mantras or philosophies, Irish fans have heard it all from Charlie Weis in recent years. Weis has asked his team to "get nasty," to "dive right in," and, most recently, to "just show me." 
Weis is an NFL guy, right? So he should be familiar with this lit­tle ditty from long­time Raiders boss Al Davis: "Just win, baby." 
Given the current 


state of affairs in Sports Editor 
Oakland, perhaps. Davis' Raiders aren't the best 
role models for this Irish 
bunch. But that mantra­well, there's something to it. 
Fans and media alike have spent much of the offseason dissecting the failures of the past two seasons while reliv­ing the Christmas Eve thrash­ing of Hawaii that seems to have, to some, signaled the rebirth of Notre Dame foot­ball. Many have pointed to an Irish schedule that boasts just one preseason top-25 team and have suggested that perfection, or at least 10 or 11 wins, might be in reach. 
In short, there's been a lot of chatter about Irish football in the months since the boys in blue and gold were·last on the field. 
To Weis' credit, I think he's on the right track with this latest concept of asking his players to ignore expecta­tions and do their talking on the field. And looking at this team, I just can't help but get the overwhelming sense that the 2009 Irish are ready to do just that. 
It's not all about the Hawaii Bowl, but I have to admit, that performance was impressive enough to give even the downtrodden Notre Dame fan hope. 
Granted, Hawaii wasn't the toughest opponent the Irish could have squared off against last bowl season. But considering the downturn at the end of last season -the home loss to Syracuse and the beating at the hands of USC-to come out and domi­nate anyone was a step in the right direction. 
What has given me more hope than the Hawaii Bowl, however, has been the way the Irish have talked the talk and, it would seem. walked the walk like a team cog­nizant of its past failures and confident in its future suc­cesses. 
Since that loss to USC, I've seen a greater sense of urgency and a more demand­ing level of accountability in the Notre Dame program, beginning with Weis at the top. 
There's no doubt he was on the hot seat at the end of last season, but athletics director Jack Swarbrick-who received rave reviews for his work after one year on the job -saw enough positives to give Weis another shot. Judging by the bowl perform­ance and then the slew of new coaches he brought in during the offseason, Weis committed to making the changes necessary to make the most of that opportunity. 
Tony Alford, Frank Verducci and Randy Hart were brought in to coach the running backs and offensive and defensive lines, respec­tively, bringing with them new perspectives and years of experience. 
That sense of urgency and level of accountability seems to have been passed down to the players, as looking at the current Irish two-deep, it seems that the best players are going to see the field ­regardless of expectations, recruiting rankings, class year, you name it. 
The position battles we saw in camp weren't determined (at least it seems} by one guy folding up his tent and quit­ting, giving in to the other; everything points toward competitive battles that, in many cases, remain too close to definitively call. 
The fact that Weis seems prepared to play as many guys as it takes, to rotate tal­ented players in and out with team, not individual, inter­ests, at heart, shows me that he's ready to win any way he can. 
Do it with a run-and-gun, pass-heavy offense, or do it with a balanced, multi-back ground game. 
Do it with an opportunistic, blitzing front seven, or do it with a rock-solid, big play­preventing secondary. 
Do it with miracle-man Mike Anello forcing turnovers on special teams, or do it with fundamentally-sound field position tactics. 
Do it with a "decided schematic advantage", or do it, quite simply, with what's working the best. 
At this point, after watching two disappointing seasons follow on the heels of two blowout BCS losses, Weis, and Irish players and fans, should have just one thing on their minds. 
Just win, baby. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 

Recycle. ·The OOserver. 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Parker, Roberson, Utupo to visit 
By MATT GAMBER 
Spores Editor 
Though game planning for Nevada has surely occupied the Irish coaching staff all week, there's no doubt a few Notre Dame assistants will be thinking about. and keep­ing an eye on, two major recruits this weekend. 
Four-star safety Sean Parker and three-star run­ning back Cameron Roberson will both be in attendance Saturday as they make their official visits to campus for Notre Dame's matchup with the Wolfpack. 
Parker, a 6-foot, 185­pound safety out of Harbor City, Calif., has nearly 30 scholarship offers and is likely months away from making his college choice. But Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank thinks Notre 
Dame is  a  legitimate  con­ 
tender  for  
Parker,  who  

visits and be a late-decision type of guy, but he's as good as you're going to find." 
Most of the nationally­prominent programs are on Parker's radar, though Frank said he believes the high school senior is high on Michigan and is rather open to leaving his home state of California. 
"He'II probably play free 
visit to Northwestern to fig­ure out his situation," Frank said. "He'll figure out what school he really likes." 
Three-star commit Justin Utupo will also be on cam­pus this weekend. The Lakewood, Calif., defensive lineman committed on July 6 without ever visiting cam­pus. He recorded 10 sacks as a junior at Lakewood 
safety because of how well he can run. He could play cor­ner, but he's a big body, too," Frank said. "He's a tremendous talent and I think he's one of the very top players in the country. He's 
as elite as you're going to get." 
At 6-foot-1, 215 pounds, Roberson is a bruising back 

posted  68  "There's a chance  out  of  
tackles, five interceptions, two sacks and  [Roberson] could commit this  Newbury Park, Calif., where he rushed for  
two  fumble  weekend.,,  18 touchdowns  
recoveries as a  as  a junior at  
junior at Narbonne  Mike Frank  Newbury Park High. Notre  
High.  Irish Sports Dally owner  Dame  and  

"He's a big, big-time play­er, and Notre Dame needs safeties pretty bad. He's very vital to Notre Dame's recruit­ing efforts," said Frank, who heads the online ESPN affili­ate Irish Sports Daily. "I expect him to take all his 
Northwestern 
r e p r e s e n t Roberson's top four, though Washington and Arizona 
were  also  on  his  radar,  
Frank said.  
"There's  a  chance  he'd  

commit this weekend, but he'll probably wait to take a 
"[Sean Parker] is a big, big-time player, and Notre Dame needs safeties pretty 
bad.,, 
Mike Frank Irish Sports Daily owner 
High. 
As an aside, Tuesday was the first day coaches could extend schol­arship offers to the high school class of 2011. Irish coach Charlie We is and his staff offered nearly 25 
scholarships on opening day, compared to a previous high of five, Frank said. 
"They're way ahead of pace from where they were in previous years, and the staff did a tremendous job of getting. prepared for this year," Frank said. "They did a real good job of research­ing, finding top players in the country who have a real­ly good shot at qualifying 
[academically  at  Notre  
Dame].  
"Getting in on  these kids  

early is very important, and Weis understands that. It should certainly have a posi­tive effect." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Friday, September 4, 2009 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Mr.Versatili 


Brian Smith provides Irish linebacking corps with experience, flexibility heading into 2009 


IAN GAVLICKffhe Observer Irish linebacker Brian Smith makes a sack against Hawaii during Notre Dame's 49-21 win over the Warriors in the Hawaii Bowl. 
play. "They were playing to not go to the pitch he 
Boise State, and it was 72-pitches it," Smith said. 64, final score, quadruple The defense has at least overtime," he said, a slight some inclination, however, exaggeration of the actual of where the ball is headed. 69-67 final. "And the first The players, Smith said, are thing that came to mind taught to read formations to when I saw him, I think he decipher what the offense is was just a freshman, was, most likely to run. 'He's a little version of "Coach Tenuta does a Vince Young."' good job of drilling us, final 
That mini-Vince rushed formation dictates what the for more than 1,000 yards offense is going to do," he 
last  season  said.  
and scored 17  Quite  a  
touchdowns the ground.  on  "{This game] is going to  eon vergence of events for  
"He has  a  lot  show how versatile I  Smith  on  
of ability," Smith said. "We have to  am and help me be able to attack from different  Saturday. Two posi­tions to play,  
work on con­taining him and play sound  spots on the field, so rm ready for it. ,,  the addition of a very tal­ented but  
football  come  still inexpe­ 
Saturday."  Brian Smith  rienced line- 
Similar  to  Irish linebacker  backer  in  
Navy  and  Te'o,  the  
Michigan,  the  first game of  
Pistol offense  the  season,  

allows the quarterback, against a quarterback with especially a mobile one like wheels in an unorthodox Kaepernick, to scramble offensive set. and run the option. To pre­"It's going to show how vent this, the players are versatile I am and help me assigned one of three offen­be able to attack from dif­sive players to shadow: the ferent spots on the field, so quarterback, the "dive man" I'm ready for it," he said. -the runner who could To illustrate Saturday's take a handoff straight up importance, he quoted the middle -or the "pitch coach Charlie Weis, who man," who swings outside took the mantra from Bill with the quarterback wait­Parcells. ing for the ball. "This is step one of the 
"It's fun unless sometime marathon," he said. "You you face a team that doesn't want to get off the blocks pitch it all the time, and well in a marathon, start you're stuck on the pitch fast and continue it on week man and you're just out by week." there and you have to go to 
hard fast songs," he said. "I
By BILL BRINK 
like to listen to slow John
Sports Writer 
Legend type of music. 

"If there was anything in 
Not to glorify retribution, the world I could do instead 
but sometimes it can be of play football it would be 
healthy for a defense. to sing and play the piano 
Ask Brian Smith. After a like John Legend." 
teammate was illegally Can he sing? 
blocked during a game -he "Not at all," he said. "I 
wouldn't say which one -always sing in the locker 
Smith called the defense room, and they always tell 
together. me to shut up." 
"As a defense we can't let He used to learn to play this happen," he told his the piano by ear, however, teammates. "Next time you along with the tuba, trum­get a shot at this guy, take pet, saxophone, drums and it." bass guitar. Eventually, he 
Guess who got the first realized he wanted to focus shot? on football, and he got tired 
"I cleaned the guy's of music after a while. clock," Smith said. "I was Actually, Smith, from trying to send a message to Overland Park, Kan., knew the team. If someone hits since second grade he had a you in the mouth, we're future in football. brothers. We got to take "If you're good in first care of each other." grade in any form or fash­
That sentiment holds true ion, you're going to be the this season, when Smith, a best player out there," he junior, plays an inter­said. "I was one of the bet­changeable role in Notre ter ones out there and when Dame's linebacking corps. you're he best you just want Smith will play two posi­to keep doing it." tions, the weakside and Smith started as a full-middle linebacker. He's back and thought he'd be comfortable going to col­playing lege in the either, but backfield. But given the during his choice, he'd "If someone hits you in junior year at 
take the Will. St. Thomas
the mouth, we ·re 
"Because it Aquinas High 
allows me to brothers. We got to take School, the run," he said. care ofeach other.,, team institut­"I'm not tak­ed a spread ing on as offense, r en­
Brian Smith 
many blocks. dering the 
Irish linebacker 
I can come fullback less downhill and important. hit you in the There was a m o u t h shortage of instead of maybe sideways linebackers, so Smith told or forwards sometimes." the coaches he could play 
What a tough guy, with all there. his talk about hittin' people Once he got to Notre in the mouth and taking Dame, he played in 11 numbers of opposing play­games his freshman season ers he needs to light up and started the last three. later. But there's a calmer He started nine games his side. sophomore year, missing 
"One thing you'll find on two because of an injury. He my iPod I don't have a lot of had 54 tackles and forced a 
fumble against Michigan, 
which he returned 35 yards 
for a touchdown. 
But back to this season, 
where the Irish linebackers 
will rotate positions 
depending on the formation. 
Senior Toryan Smith will 
start at middle linebacker 
with Brian at the Will, but 
when freshman Manti Te'o 
enters the game, Brian will 
slide over to the Mike. 
"He can play any line­
backer position, so that 
allows me to move him 
around in different pack­
ages and do different things 

with him," assistant head 
coach and linebackers 
coach Jon Tenuta said. 

The two positions require Smith to change his assign­ments on the go, but he said he's getting better at it. 
"So in my mind, at Will, [it's] 'Okay what do I got, here, here, here, here,"' he said, running down his mental checklist. "But it all changes when I'm at Mike. I do an okay job of shifting gears. I need to get better at doing that come game time." 
At 6-foot-3 and 240 pounds, Smith has the ath­leticism to play either spot. He's also got the mental capacity for either place, Tenuta said. 
"Brian Smith's a tremen­dous talent, period. He's got great athleticism," Tenuta said. "He's smart, every day he learns more and more. He knows his role." 
His role, whatever it may be, will be an important one Saturday, when the Irish face Nevada's pistol offense. The pistol, which positions the quarterback about three yards behind the center with a running back directly behind him, is dangerous regardless, but put it in the hands of Wolfpack quarter­back Colin Kaepernick and it's deadly. 
Smith remembers the first time he saw Kaepernick 
·:(1 
. . 
-.; 
·._. 
.
, 
"'!> ~~·-: . 

Smith cheers on his teammates on during Notre Dame's 33-7 win over Washington on Oct. 25, 2008. the pitch man every time, Contact Bill Brink at Smith racked up four tackles and a sack against the Huskies. but the time you so happen wbrink@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 4, 2009 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 0-0 AP: 23 Coaches: 23 
Fifth season at Notre Dame 
career record: 29-23 at home: 
15-11 in openers: 3-1 





Irish Offense vs. Wolfpack Defense 

2009 Schedule 
Sept.S Nevada Sept. 12 @Michigan Sept.19 Michigan St. Sept.26 @Purdue Oct.3 Washington Oct.17 Southern Cal Oct. 24 Boston College Oct. 31 Washington St. Nov. 7 Navy Nov.14 @ Pittsburgh Nov. 21 Connecticut Nov. 28 @Stanford 
Head-to-Head 
NDOFFENSE NEVDEFENSE Scoring: 24.69 ppg (67th) Scoring: 32.31 ppg (99th) Total: 355.08 ypg (65th) Total: 400.23 ypg (9lst) Rushing: 109.69 ypg {IOOth) Rushing: 88.62 ypg (6th) Passing: 245.38 ypg (34th) Passing: 311.62 ypg (l19rh) Turnovers against: 28 (93rd) Turnovers for: 25 (42nd) Fumbles lost: 11 (68th) Fumbles rec.: 9 (69th) Interceptions: 17 ( 10I st) Interceptions: 16 (26th) Sacks Allowed: 22 (45th) Sacks: 37 (lOth) 1:0.1~ for: 31:17 (25th) T.O.P. against: 27: IS (7th) 
Returning Leaders 
NDOFFENSE  NEVDEFENSE  
QB JIMMY ClAUSEN  FS JONATIIAN AMAYA  
268-440,3,172 yds., 25 TD  68 tkl., 2.5 TFL. 4 INT  
RB ARMANDO AllEN  DE KEVIN HASPED  
134 rush, 585 yds., 3 TD  50 tkl., 18.5 TFL, 10 sacks  
WR GOlDEN TATE  DE DONTAYMOCH  
58 rec., 1,080 yds., 10 TD  50 tkl., 17.5 TFL, 11.5 !oacks  
WR MICHAFL FLOYD  lB JAMES JOHNSON  
48 rec., 719 yds., 7 TD  48 tkl., 12.5 TFL, 1.5 sacks  
TE KYLE RUDOlPH  lB KEVIN GRIMES  
29 rec., 340 yds., 2 TD  45 tkl., I TFL, 2 INT  

CJ There aren't many nice things to The Irish, meanwhile, are set to boast make that leap this season. z say about Nevada's pass defense. their most prolific passing attack since There are many reasons Nevada -The unit ranked 119th among Brady Quinn left campus. A more could make this a close game, but this (/) Division I FBS teams last season, mature Jimmy Clausen will still have isn't one of them. Expect the Irish to ~ giving up a whopping 311 yards Golden Tate and Michael Floyd to throw the ball with success early and a.. per game last season. The lone throw to, and Kyle Rudolph is emerging often. Though Clausen, may not put up :X: bright spot for the Wolfpack is as one of the best pass-catching tight Hawaii Bowl numbers, he could come (/) senior safety Jonathon Amaya, ends in the country. All this aerial assu­very close. -who led the team in tackles and alt needs to be truly elite is a solid third !:!: interceptions in 2008. receiver, and Duval Kamara hopes to EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
c, In the offseason, Charlie Weis the first half duo to a suspension Moch and Kevin Basped are all-con­z promised a renewed committ­stemming from last year's fight ference caliber players and could -ment to the running game, ana­against USC, and Gray could use the give the Irish offensive line some :::1: lyzing the rushing attacks of all opportunity to make his case for trouble. The stats may not tell the ~ 10 BCS teams from last season. more carries. James Aldridge at full­whole story, though, as teams often 0::: Junior Armando Allen is now the back provides another ground option. didn't have to run and instead feast­:X: full-time starting running back, On the other side of the ball, ed on the Wolfpack's porous second­
with junior Robert Hughes and Nevada returns much of a defense ary.!:!! Jonas Gray waiting in the wings. that gave up only 88 yards per game!:!: Hughes won't be available for last season. Defensive ends Dontay EDGE: EVEN 

Nick Tausch makes coaching staff has gushed 
Charlie Weis takes back the assert his will against his debut at placekicker about his talent and stressed 
reigns as play caller, and the Wolfpack through _ Saturday, and we'll see tht~ need to get him on the 
should be licking his chops the air and potentially i if there are any nerves field. 
going up against a weak on the ground as well. 8! from the freshman on The Irish may have the tal­
Nevada pass defense. Weis As long as Weis does-J: ~ opening day. ent advantage, but you can 

has an astounding array of n't outthink himself, :Z: Another freshman never tell how freshmen will 
weapons at his disposal, from this one really won't be ~ starting on special respond to the big stage. 
Golden Tate to Armando that close. teams is kick returner 
Allen to Michael Floyd. Theu Riddick. The EDGE: EVEN 
Weis should be able to EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

Forgive me for playing Devil's 
The Irish defense will struggle a little 

Advocate, but I'm not drinking the Lou 
against the pistol at the outset, but the 

Hultz Kool-Aid just yet. You can use 
offense should dick the en tire game. 

many arguments for Notre Dame's resur­
Kyle Hudolph has a career day with over 

gence: Michael Floyd this, Golden Tate 
100 yards and close to 10 catches. 

that, what have you, but Notre Dame 
Adjustments at the half and a little expe­

was a 7-6 team last season and played 
rience against Kaepernick and the for­

)

like it. They need to prove they can win 
mation will lead to few stops, and 




games they're supposed to win, which to Irish fans everywhere Nevada is. Not so fast. Their coach invented their offensive set and Colin Kaepernick will dance around all day. The Irish win a close one, however -thanks to touchdowns from Floyd and Tate. 
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Nevada 28 
a 
Notre Dame pulls away late. The Michael Bryan Wolfpack offense won't have the passing _______ game to come from behind when forced to throw the football. Manti Te'o will see
Associate 
a lot of the field and will not disappoint,
Sports Editor 
and Nick Tausch will make every kick he gets a look at in his debut. 
FlNAL SCORE: Notre Dame 41, Nevada 28 


• For more matchups and pregame a IRISH INSIDER 
·at ndsmcobserver.con
PODCAST 
Friday, September 4, 2009 page 5 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 

Nevada 
Wolfpack Record: 0-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
25th season at

Wolfpack Offense vs. Irish Defense 
Nevada 
career record: 
198-91-1 
Sixth in wins among all active Div. 1-A coaches 





2009 Schedule 
Sept. 5  @Notre Dame  
Sept. 19  @ Colorado St.  
Sept. 25  Missouri  
Oct.3  UNLV  
Oct.9  Louisiana Tech  
Oct.17  @Utah St.  
Oct. 24  Idaho  
Oct. 31  Hawaii  

Nov.8 @ San Jose St. 

While Wolfpack quarterback Colin three top-level cornerbacks in sopho­Brian Smith and sophomore Darius Z Kaepernick is a perfectly capable passer, more Robert Blanton, senior Darrin Fleming can provide help against ~ 
Nov.14 Froo~oSt. 

he doesn't really have anyone to throw Walls and senior Raeshon McNeil. Kyle the pass. l> 
Nov. 21 @ New Mexico St. 

to this year. Nevada returns only two McCarthy returns in his role as strong The only situation where Notre C receivers who actually caught a pass last safety, and Harrison Smith moves back Dame might struggle is if Nevada is l> 
Nov. 27 Boise St. 

season. Running back Vai Taua is a to his natural position of free safety after so successful running the ball that it J:! threat out of the backfield, and can make playing linebacker last season. The Irish opens up opportunities for ~ plays after the catch, as well. also boast a quick linebacking corps that Kaepernick downfield. ~ 
Head-to-Head 

The Irish secondary should be one of should be able to cover Taua out of the ­the team's strengths this season, with backfield. Freshman Manti Te'o, junior EDGE: NOTRE DAME ~ 
NEVOFFENSE ND DEFENSE Scoring: 37.62 ppg (12th) Scoring: 22.15 ppg ( 42nd) Total: 508.54 ypg (5th) Total: 329.85 (39th) 

Even though the pistol offense sixth-year senior Luke Lippincott in up against an inexperienced z 
Rushing: 134. 15 ypg (45th) Rushing: 277.77 ypg (3rd) 

causes some uncertainties for oppos­their backfield. Lippincott sat out last front line that includes only two ~ 
Passing: 195.69 ypg (43rd) Passing: 230.77 ypg (47th) 

ing defense, the Irish can be assured year because of injury, but led the players with more than a year of ):ii 
Turnovers against: 24 (64th) Turnovers for: 25 (42nd) 

that the Wolfpack will run the ball WAC in rushing in 2007 with more playing time. C 
Fumbles lo.r.t: 15 ( 1 02nd) Fumbles rec.: 11 (38th)

and commit to the ground game. than 1,400 yards and 15 touchdowns. The Irish youth will have to :I> 
Interceptions: 9 (23rd) Interceptions: 14 (49th) 

Colin Kaepernick ran for more than Any time a team can boast three play beyond their years if they :::C 
Sacks Allowed: 19 (30th) Sacks: 27 (50th) 

1,1 00 yards and 17 touchdowns last 1 ,000-yard rushers -no matter hope to contain the Wolfpack, a C: 
T.O.P. for: 32:45 (7th) T.O.P. against: 28:43 (25th) 

season, and running back Vai Taua what kind of offense they run -tall order for any defense. ~ notched 1,500 yards and 15 scores. that's pretty good. 
-

Oh, and the Wolfpack also have The Wolfpack stable will b'e going EDGE:NEVADA 25 
Returning Leaders 
NEV OFFENSE ND DEFENSE 

J 
Like the Irish, Nevada's provides experience on that 
Jon Tenuta i-; calling the plays Wolfpack for 24 seasons z 
QB COIJN KAEPERNICK SS KYLE MCCARTHY 

kick returner is a young unit. 
on defense now, and he com­and is considered the ~ 
208-383, 2,849 yds., 22 TO 110 tkl., 3.5 TFL, 2 !NT 

player who's just too tal-Notre Dame, however, field­
bines with Corwin Brown to grandfather of the pistol (') J:1o 
161 rush, 1,130 yds., 17 TD FS HARRISON SMITii 

! 
ented to keep off the field. ed the best kick coverage unit 
form one of best defensive offense. Ault won't rest on o i! 
RB VAl TAUA 57 tkl., 8.5 TFL, 3.5 sacks 

Hedshirt freshman Mike in the country last season, and 
coaching tandems in the coun­his laurels, though, and ~ 
236 rush, 1,521 yds., 15 TD LB BlUAN SMITii 

Ball may not be able to Mike Anello is back 100 per­
try. Neither of them, though, adds new wrinkles every % ~ 
30 rec., 243 yds., 3 TO 54 tkl., 4 TFL, 2 sacks, 

beat out Vai Taua or I .uke cent from last year's broken 
can be credited with inventing a season to continually fru.'>-2 ~ 
RB WKEIJPPINCO'IT CB RAFSHON MCNEIL ,; lippincott, but could make leg. 
new defensive formation. trate defenses. C) z 
1,420 yds., 15 TD (in 2007) 41 tkl., 2 !NT, 11 brk-ups 

Nevada head coach Chris Ault (/)
~ an impaet returning kicks. 
FB CHRIS WI!LIJNGI'ON DT IAN WILLIAMS 
-

11.1 Taua, the punt returner, EDGE: EVEN 
L-; a legend, having coached the EDGE:NEVADA ~ 
42 rec., 632 yds., 6 TO 40 tkl., 2 TFL 

z 

The Irish can't afford to sleepwalk through their opener like they seemed to do a year ago. Though the Nevada program may not have the prestige cJf traditional Notre Dame oppo­nents like Michigan and USC, the Wolfpack are actually one of the tougher teams on this year's schedule. Kaepernick will give the lri-;h defense fits as a dual-threat quarterback, but Notre Dame's defense should settle down and its strong secondary should neutralize the _______ Wolfpack passing game. Clausen, Floyd and Tate could put up video game numbers on 
Sports Editor 
Nevada's weak secondary as the Wolfpack 
score just enough to keep the IrL-;h attacking 
into the fourth quarter. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Nevada 21 

At the very least, this one should be fun to watch. Both teams feature offensive attacks that can put points on the board in bunches and the new sco-reboards in Notre Dame Stadium will be put to the test right away. Kaepcmick will give the Irish defense trouble, and put up his typical gaudy stats. Vai Taua and Luke lippincott will get in on the party as well, and Notre Dame's run defense numbers won't be pretty. But, for my money, give me -------Jimmy Clausen, Michael Floyd and Golden Tate against the 119th-ranked pass defense
Associate 
any day. The Irish won't run the ball like some
Sports Editor 
fans will want, but, as in the Hawaii Bowl, it will be only be because they don't have to. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Nevada 24 



Jeff Jackson 
It'll be exciting to watch Jimmy CJausen come of age leading a balanced, ball-con­trol offense reminiscient of the glory days. And from everything I've heard, thn Irish defense is going to be one of it-; strengths. 
FINAL: Notre Dame 31, Nevada 14 

r 
... 
'\ 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 4, 2009 



MARK YOUR CALENDAR 
No matter what team you're rooting for, Saturday* September 19 
it's the place to be the Friday and Saturday
starting a1 7:30 a.m. 
before aNotre Dame Game. 
Want to put on those running shoes and join • Autograph Sessions, marching bands in the fun? Come to the 
and more! 
.Hall of Fame tor an early
SALMON • Tailgate partles
morning run before
CHASE.ORG 

the Notre Dame vs. • Football Friday Block Parties: 5·9 p.m. Michigan State kick-off! 
!Of« mJ~-~-'5K ~UN <J< W>\t...l>l: 

Includes: live music, foodj beverages; and give-aways 


EXTENDED ND HOME FOOTBALl WEEKEND HRS: FRIDAY: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. SATURDAY: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. SUNDAY: 8a.m. to 5 p.m. 
For more information visit www.collegefootball.org 

What song is most played on your iPod right now? Grace is Gone by Dave Matthews. 
What's your favorite TV show? The Real World on MTV. Joey was my favorite character before he left. 
What's the toughest class you ever took at Notre Dame? Accounting I. It's like another language to me. 
What's your favorite location on cam­pus that has nothing to do with foot­ball? North Dining Hall. I love the make­your-own pizza and a glass of chocolate milk. 
Ifyou could have one superpower, what would it be? I'd like to be invisible. 


Friday, Sept. 4 Noon Varsity Shop on the Irish Green opens 
3:00 p.m. Irish Green opens with live DJ music 
------------·----·---·-. -· 
3:30 p.m. · Visit ft·om the ND Poms 
··-··· ...... I . ···········--··-·· ·············· ··········-·-·------·-~-~----·­
4:00 p.m. Live performance by Oblates of Blues 
6:30 
p.m. Pep Rally at Dillon Hall 

6:30 
p.m. Irish Green closes 


Stadium Tunnel open to the public, Friday: 10:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. ampus Tours from Eck Visitors' Center, Friday; 11:00 a.m., 1:00 p.m. and 3:00p.m. 
Saturday, Sept. 5 
8:00 a.m. : ' Varsity Shop on the Irish Green opens r -· 
10:00 
a.m. ! Irish Green opens 

10:00 
a..m. i Live DJ music and a visit from the ND Poms 


····-·--·--·--··---+ ·----·····---·---·----······--·--~­
11:00 a ..m. i Live performance by Mack Pherson & the Struts 
,,._' . . . . 
~. 

12:15 p.m. ! Visit from the ND Cheerleaders
. 

1:00 p.m. i ND personalities hosted by Chuck Lennon; guests : include Mark Hubbard and Heisman winner John· 
i 
: ny Lattner and a group of players from '53 team

.--· "' ...._...,,. ·' ·t·· .........,_.."... '"' .. •'''""·' .,.. •• ,... •' v.-.•..w. ••. •. , .... ,. ·.• , .._.. .... , •····'"·'·"''" '· •·'' ····' • '' 
1:30 p.m. ND Glee Club 
. --~ ----····-·­
2:00p.m. i Live DJ music 
i 

3:00 p.m. : Irish Green closes 3:30p.m.; Kick-Off: ND vs. Nevada 
GAME 
DAY 
gameday.nd.edu 


Friday, September 4, 2009 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Olsen confident about move to center 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
Heading into the 2009 sea­
son, college football analyst 
Phil Steele tabbed Eric Olsen as 
lhe 25th best offensive guard in 
the country. Too bad Olsen will 
be lining up at center for the 
Irish. 
No, this wasn't an oversight on Steele's part. After three years and 19 career starts at left guard, Olsen will move one spot to the right this season. 
New offensive line coach Frank Verducci said he first contemplated the switch during winter conditioning, as he was just becoming acquainted with the Irish players. Verducci said that his previous experience in the NFL helped him see Olsen as a potential center. 
"Right before I came here, we were in the process of evaluat­ing guys for the draft, and when you come in you kind of look at these seniors like where they would fit in that picture," Verducci said. "[Olsen] doesn't have prototypical guard size at the next level, but he does have excellent center size." 
Olsen said that, initially, he was a bit hesitant to make the switch. 
"On a personal level, going into senior year, after starting the whole season at left guard, it was a little nervousness that came with that," he said. "Starting a new position, trying a new thing on haying the responsibility of snapping the ball." 
-He added, though, that he other four positions, you're believed in Verducci's long basically being told if there are coaching history. any adjustments. If you're the 
"To be honest, I really didn't center, you're telling what have much of a choice but to those adjustments are." put all my trust and faith in It is often the center's respon­Coach Verducci, know that he's sibility to point out aspects of going to do the right thing to the defense, such as who the put us in the best position to middle linebacker is or where win," Olsen said. any potential blitzes may be 
Olsen will be replacing senior coming from. Oh, and then he Dan Wenger, who just a few has to block the 300-pound weeks ago was placed on the behemoth bearing down on Rimington Award Watch List him. for the nation's top center. "You have to understand the Wenger is now listed as a back­whole thing," Verducci said. up behind senior Chris Stewart, "You have to understand cover­and Weis indicated that he ages, never mind defensive would play in linemen. You Saturday's open-have to get a er against broader per­
..There are just
Nevada. spective on the 
Olsen, for his nuances, but he's game." part, has seized done a good job Olsen said that the job at center even though he
overcoming that and
and never was a little nerv­
we're confident in 
looked back. ous at first, the "Like anybody him going into the move to center else, he had a ,, could pay big
season.
learning curve dividends for at the position," him or his team Verducci said. Frank Verducci down the road. 
"There are just  Irish offensive line coach  "As  far  as  
nuances,  hut  helping  the  
he's done a good  team, yeah, it's  

job overcoming that and we're going to help the team," he said confident in him going into the "But it's also going to help game." myself he a more versatile 
Verducci said that Olsen was player. Injuries happen all the quick to pick up the techniques time in football. And to play of playing in the middle, but more than one position is that the mental part of the something that's very valuable position took a little more time. on the offensive line." 
"He has all the physical Verducci and Olsen are also qualities," Verducci said. "I thinking a few years down the think the hardest thing is the road with the position change. mental part of the game. At the Since Olsen is a senior, the NFL 

could potentially await at the end of the season. 
"I hope so, knock on wood," Olsen said when asked about a possible professional future. "Right now I'm trying to look at this season. This is my senior year. I've enjoyed my career so far and I'm really trying to have the best year I can right now." 
Verducci, though, had other things on his mind. 
"Let's just worry about get­ting past Nevada first," he said with a laugh when asked about Olsen's NFL prospects. "Let's just get past the first snap of the first game." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

Kaepernick perfect fit for Ault's unique pistol offense 

By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate SportS Editor 
Nevada quarterback Colin Kaepernick is to the pistol what Tim Tebow is to Urban Meyer's spread offense: the perfect dual­threat leader. The 2008 WAC Offensive Player of the Year will be featured Saturday in Wolfpack coach Chris Ault's innovative formation, and will be the biggest threat to an Irish victory in the season opener. 
Kaepernick, a junior, has thrived as a freshman and soph­omore in the innovative offense that utilizes his speed and size. With immense talent throwing and running the ball, Kaepernick amassed 39 touch­downs last season, and more than 2,500 yards passing and 1,000 yards rushing. 
"There's only been five quar­terbacks in Division I history that have thrown for 2,000 yards and rushed for a 1,000 yards in one season," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "That's in the history of college football. And he's one of them." 
The pistol offense is a varia­tion of the shotgun Ault created in the late 70s in his third year with the Wolfpack. The basic formation has the quarterback in a shotgun position, three yards behind the center, with the running back lined up directly behind him. 
"It's a little bit different because it's not like anything we've ever seen before," Irish senior safety Kyle McCarthy said. "But there's obviously some option mixed in. So you have a little bit of Michigan and Navy in there. But they're more than capable of passing the ball 
with success. So we've got to be offset hack." ready for anything." With both Lippincott and Taua 
Out of the formation healthy, it seems likely that Ault Kaepernick can run play action will incorporate formations passes, zone running plays with using one back behind an option to tuck the ball and Kaepernick and one offset to his run, or straight handoffs to one side. The pistol variations Ault of his talented hacks, Vai Taua may use Saturday will necessi­and Luke Lippincott. tate a disciplined and focused 
Taua rushed for 1,521 yards effort from the Irish defense. in 2008 as a redshirt junior, "We're ready for any adjust­averaging 137.2 total yards per ment. And our guys have pre­game. The starting job only pared, we've been practicing 
became Taua's,  against  the  
however, after  conventional  
Lippincott suf­fered a knee injury in the  ''It's a little bit different becau.se it's  offense all c a m p , McCarthy said.  
Wolfpack's sec­ond game of the year.  not like anything we've ever seen before. ,,  "So whatever Nevada comes out and lines  
Another possi­ up in, after  - 
ble advantage of  Kyle McCarthy  we'll be ready  
the pistol is the  Irish safety  for  it. And  if  

ability of the quarterback, especially one as big as Kaepernick, to obscure the defense's view of the run­ning back behind him, allowing for effective misdirection runs or play fakes. 
In 2007, a healthy Lippincott led the WAC in rushing with 1,420 yards and 18 touch­downs. After being granted a sixth year of eligibility, he should pair with Taua to give Kaepernick multiple power run­ning threats. 
"The unique part in Nevada's offense is the fact that they don't lose their downhill plays, their straight downhill plays," Weis said. "Although the quar­terback is in the shotgun, the back's still behind the quarter­back. So it still gives you the ele­ment of being able to run all your normal 1-formation type plays without having to have an 
we're not, after 
the first series 
or whatnot, we've got the coaching staff to get it adjusted on the sideline." 
While Kaepernick 's mastery of the pistol running attack (aver­aging seven yards per carry in 2008) has grown his reputation as a runner, he has also showed off his passing ability at times. In the Wolpack's close loss to Maryland in the Humanitarian Bowl he threw for 370 yards while his running game was limited by a foot injury, and was. named the bowl's most valuable player in the Nevada loss. 
While Notre Dame may not be able to stop both the running and passing attack of Kaepernick Saturday, contain­ing him to only doing one may be the key to victory. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

-. 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 4, 2009 
~  
'·  "'  
'  
~  
"  
•\  
'\  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
I  
I  
'  
'  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
"·  
'  
' I  
I  
'· I  ...._.  

r. 
' 
I I I, 
'· r. 
' 
' 





Better Ingredients. Better Ingredients. 
·: :__·: : 

Better Pizza. Better Pizza. 
ARE YOU READY FOR SOME FOOTBALL? 
Papa Predicts 
NOTRE DAME 38 Nevada 17 
Choose Your Early Week Special 
(These 3 Offers Good tvlonday-Wednesday) 
•One 
Large 1-Topping Pizza $8.99 (Online Promo Code SVM1) 

•Two 
1\tledium Cheese Pizzas $11.99 (Online Promo CodeSVM2) 

•One 
Extra Large 5-Topping $10.99 (Online Promo CodeSVM3) 


Order your next pizza online at 
papajohns.com 

Better lngrt:'dient~. 
Better Pizza. 

r-;..:,;-;-~I; ;:7~, : -i;rg;-t:TI,ppj;g-l~~-~~;;;~~, . 
; Breadstick~ & 1Pizza, Breadsticks, & 1 (9pm-Cl~! ~ I a 20-oz Dr1nk 1 D . k Large 1-Top lazza 
, 2 20-oz nn s 1 1 I $10.99 1 I $15.99 1 . $7.99 : I Online Promo Code: SVM41 Online Promo Code: SVMtt I Online Promo Code: SVM6 I 
f-.. --------J.....,--------T-'----------1
• Large 1-Topping I . .
1 • Papa's Party Pakl XL 1-Topp•ng Pizza 1 ; Pizza & Order of 1 Three Large 1 & Garlic Parmesan 1 : Papa's Wings It T . p· • Breadsticks 1 : I . oppmg IZZ~ $13 99 I ' . $15.99 I $24.99 . I
I • Onlme Promo Code: SVM10 Online Promo Code: SVMS 1 Onltne Promo Code: SVM9
IL., ______ .l. _______ ....... ______ _ J 
Offers \'alid thrnu~h 10/31/09 at above J,.catlon. Additional toppinJ,ts and Pan pizza extra. Not \'alid with any other coupons or discounl~. No l>nuhl&.' THppings. Limited delh·ery area. fhar~es muy apply. Customer responsible for all applicable taxes. 
t.~·~t?~;r~ 
.~ -..~-~~ .·. j:~ \···~ ~ -. 

Notre Dame Store St. Mary's/Holy Cross Store 271-1177 271-7272 
EAT LIKE A CHAMPION TODAY!! GO IRISH! Beat Nevada!!!! 






