
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 92 THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 19.2009 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND works with city to revitalize community 
Off-campus projects add 'vibrancy,' help to tighten link between University and South Bend residents 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Editor's note: Thi.<; is the second installment ofa three-part series examining the develop­ment projects occurring near Notre Dame's campus. 
The University's collaboration with South Bend to develop the neighborhoods near r,am­pus will bring a vibrancy to the community that can potentially reap benefit<> for students and faculty, according to Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves. 
Affieck-Graves said the success of the Notre Dame community is dependent on a strong community outside the University. 
The three projects Notre Dame is investing in -the Eddy Street Commons, Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Project and Innovation Park -attempt to better the com­munity, which in turn will benefit the 
Universitv, he said. 
"All three are important projects for us because they will tighten the link between the University and the-community," Affieck-Graves said. "For the University to really succeed, we need to be in a vibrant community." 
Greg Hakanen, director of aSset manage­ment and real estate development, said the construction of the Eddy Street Commons is a step in the right direction toward revitalizing the neighborhood around campus. 
The 'Commons presents faculty with a living option close to campus, and students will be able to enjoy a variety of restaurants and shops, he said. 
"Notre Dame has never really had a com­mercial district, that some would call it a col­lege town, with an easy walking distance to campus, so that was kind of a vacuum," Hakanen said. 
Eddy Street Commons has apartments, eon-
see PROJECTS/page 6 

Panel examines effectofObama campaign 

Group focuses on diversity and increased civic engagement in 2008 election season 
Shades of Ebony, the Africana Studies Department, and the Black Alumni of Notre Dame hosted the discussion, which lasted approximately an hour. 
The panel consisted of six members of the Notre Dame community ranging in ethnici­ties, ages, and religious affili­ations. 
Members included Carmen Orozco-Acosta, a political sci­ence graduate student, Cecilia Lucero, the assistant director of undergraduate research, Jasmin Simmons, a sopho­more majoring in Spanish and 
see 0 BAMNpage 6 
Course researches college-aged health 
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
At yesterday's Health and Wellness Fair, students tested out "drunk goggles," entered in raflles and helped a class of 25 students begin a new clinical trial. 
The clinical research course -NDash For Better Health -is the first of its kind at Notre Dame. The students, under the guidance of semi-retired cardiologist Dr. Vmce Friedewald, are conducting a study on college-aged blood pres­sure. 
Senior Erin Wash, a biochem­istry major who plans on attending medical school after Notre Dame, has had experience doing research in the past. After hearing of Friedewald's plans for the study, she helped plan the course with him in the fall to launch in the spring. 
"Together we put the skeleton of the study together," she said. 
Designed with an emphasis on increasing undergraduate research, the study's goal is to measure the blood pressures of between 800 and 1,000 under­graduate students by the end of the Spring semester. 
The figure, Wash said, will ensure the statement about the study is representative of the entire undergraduate population at Notre Dame. 
see HEALTH/ page 3 


HEI hotel -workers ask for support 

Employees fight for right to unionize 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Ediror 
Three hotel workers and a union organizer urged Notre Dame stu­dents to support the rights of HEI Hotels and Resorts workers to unionize at an event hosted by the Coalition for Economic Justice in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Wednesday. 
Maria Vivanco, 24, an organizer with Unite Here Local 2, a San Francisco chapter of the union, urged students to campaign for bet­ter working conditions for hotel employees. 
"You guys are among the privi­leged that have that [college] edu­cation, so we really want you to use your degree and your education as a tool to make change," she said. 
The Coalition, a division of the Progressive Student Alliance, first hosted workers from HEI's Le Meridien Hotel in San Francisco last November. 
One of the workers who spoke, Michael Archeta, was fired from his position as a cook after a Nov. 11 Observer article about the event was discovered by the hotel man­agement, Vivanco said. 
The workers came to Notre Dame to speak Wednesday and last November because the University is one of several colleges that invests 
see HEllpage 4 


By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
A panel of students, faculty, and staff discussed the impacts that President Barack Obama's campaign had on unifying the diverse American population Wednesday evening in the Coleman-Morse Center Lounge. 
Members of the Notre Dame community gathered to eat dinner and listen to the dis­cussion, which was titled "Obama's Impact on Diversity, 
Inclusion  and  Civic  
Engagement:  Now  and  
Beyond."  

page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 Thursday, February 19, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Acadetny 


anticipation 
I get excited about the Academy Awards. Possibly not the most macho admission, but it's the truth. And this year's awards contain a number of interesting nominees that will make the ceremony fascinating, 
Bill Brink 
never mind the 
fact that Hugh 
Jackman is 

Sports Editor 
hosting. 

Where'd that come from? Used to be funny people would run the show, the better to entertain the mass­es: Steve Martin, Billy Crystal, Chris Rock, Jon Stewart, Ellen DeGeneres. Where'd Hugh Jackman come from? 
But we can't judge before we see. He may exude charm and charisma and connect with the audience better than all of the above. At the very least, his physique in a tux and hint of an Australian accent will entertain the females. 
Here's what has me excited this year: 

Up for Best Picture, we have "Slumdog Millionaire," a movie with no well-known actors (at least in America) that still captivates the audi­ence. Half of the movie follows young Indian kids who don't speak English, yet the cinematography and Indian music (two songs are up for Best Song) move the film along at a rapid pace. 
We also have "Titanic's" Jack and Kate 11 years down the road when the relationship forged in the heat (or cold) of the tragedy starts to fade, in "Revolutionary Road." Jack gets uppi­ty with Kate, Kate's not having it ... whatever the case may be. 
All the good things I heard about Mickey Rourke in "The Wrestler" couldn't describe his performance. I judge movies by how they affect me after I see them. "The Wrestler" stuck around in my head. A movie about a washed-up wrestler in New Jersey, and I .couldn't get rid of it. 
Side note: Marisa Tomei, who plays a stripper in the movie, still looks real good at age 44. 
My biggest beef with the Oscars is usually that they omit comedy movies and focus on serious, ponderous movies I don't want to see. Not this year, because Robert Downey Jr. got a nomination for his role as Kirk Lazarus/Lincoln Osiris in "Tropic Thunder." Bout time. He reminded me of a cross of Daniel Day-Lewis with Stiller: unbelievably funny. 
It's a shame, though, that he has no chance of winning, because he's up against Heath Ledger and the Joker. The Joker was the first villain in a movie I believed. Every other villain wears tailored suits and has billions of dollars for world domination while his minions protect him from every possi­ble harm. Ledger's portrayal of the character made me believe that some­one out there could actually do the things he did. And despite the fact that he carved people's faces with knives and thoughtlessly slaughtered inno­cent people, at times I felt like I was rooting for him. 
If he doesn't win Sunday, the Academy and I are gonna have prob­lems. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

A caption on the front page of the Wed., Feb. 18 edition ofThe Observer misspelled the name of a student studying in the CSLC. The student pictured is Hayley Mohr. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR OPINION ON PRESIDENT 0BAMA'S STIMULUS PACKAGE? 




Graysen Petersen-Fitts Hannah Ha Jimmy Mitchell 
sophomore senior
sophomore 
Welsh Fam O'Neill
Dillon 
"That seems "I don't know, "It's good as like an awfully but first, 'I'd cut long as it saves personal a hole in the the polar
,,

b ,,,
question. , ox. 


Erich Wolz 
sophomore Fisher 
"I thin it's a lot ofextra spending we 
-·don't need., 


Lucy Lavely 
soplfomore 
Holy Cross 
"I make love, not war-we should all go back to Woodstock. , 

JESS LEEfThe Observer Members of the Notre Dame community enjoy events, including hula hoop contests, massages and relaxation tests at the Recsports Health Fair at ROLFS. 
OFFBEAT 

Man caught sans pants trying to escape robbery 
PENSACOLA Authorities said a burglary suspect was literally caught with his pants down while trying to run away. A deputy responded to an alarm at a convenient store early Tuesday morning and reported seeing a 37 -year­old man exiting through a smashed-out front door while carrying several packs of cigarettes. 
Deputies said the man tried to flee, but the hand­fuls of cigarettes prevented him from holding up his pants, which fell down and tripped him before he could make it out of the parking lot. 
The man was charged with criminal mischief, burglary, theft and posses­sion of drug paraphernalia. He was being held on 
$12,000 bail.  
Store owner establishment METAIRIE,  robs La.  own  

Deputies said they dido 't have to look far to find the person who stole thou­sands of dollars worth of heating and air condition­ing equipment. They say the thief was right behind the counter. 
According to a Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office arrest report, a 44-year-old man, who manages an appliance part store, may have made off with about $203,000 worth of invento­ry. 
On Jan. 9, the manager filed a theft report indicat­ing that 70 rolls of 50-foot copper sheets were missing from his inventory. The report said that further investigation by the compa­ny revealed that the man­ager had been entering the store after hours using his personal alarm code. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...... 

e.
e.c( 

e. 
* .. 
*·. *
(,) 
**· * 

...1 0 HIGH 20 HIGH 16 HIGH 25 HIGH 25 LOW 14 LOW 13 LOW 20 LOW 15 
bears. 
IN BRIEF 

The Class of 2012 presents "Frosh Four Square" tonight from 6 to 9 
p.m in Stepan Center. The event is free to participate, and $5 for a T­shirt. 
The Lecture "Ethical Dimensions of Data Mining'' will be presented as part of Ethics Week 2009. The lec­ture will be given by Professor Barry Keating of the Mendoza College of Business today from 
12:30 to 1:30. All presentations will be in the Giovannini Commons area. Mendo7a College of Business. 
The lecture "Knocking Down the Walls: The Fight for Latino Cultural Equity in NYC" will be given as part of the Institute for Latino Studies' (ILS) spring lecture series titled "Caribbean Flights: From the First Colonial Cities in America to Metropolis U.SA" today at 4 p.m in 212 McKenna Hall. It is co-spon­sored by Notre Dame's Henkels Lecture Series, Graduate School, College ofArts and Letters Office of Undergraduate Studies, Kellogg Institute for International Studies, and Department of Romance languages and literatures. 
David Walker, the president and CEO of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, will speak Friday from 
10:40 a.m. to 12:10 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The event is part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series. It is free and open to the public. 
"Peace and Reconciliation in Uganda," featuring Archbishop John Baptist Odama who has played a prominent role in resolving the conflict in Uganda, will be held on Friday at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obsen•er, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@ndedu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

Q 
~ 
*** ...

* * * * HIGH 22 HIGH 
29 LOW 13 LOW 
19 

Atlanta 49 123 Boston 43 124 Chicago 22 I 14 Denver 49 I 30 Houston 70 I 41 Los Angeles 72 I 46 Minneapolis 19 I 9 New York 37 I 25 Philadelphia 37 I 24 Phoenix 76 I 46 Seattle 54 I 37 St. Louis 34 I 20 Tampa 63 I 39 Washington 41 I 25 
Thursday, February 19, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lectureexplores gender inpop culture 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
The Men Against Violence club sponsored a lecture enti­tled "That's What HE Said: Images of Modern Masculinity" in the Hesburgh Library's Carey Auditorium pn Wednesday at 8 p.m. 
The event, which featured a viewing of an episode of the popular television show "The Office," as well as a panel dis­cussion, explored the topic of how masculinity is portrayed in popular culture. 
The first panelist, Dr. Augustin Fuentes, a professor of Anthropology at Notre Dame, discussed gender roles within "The Office." 
He said that the sitcom worked well because the male­female dichoto­my present 
There is overlap in how people act, and no one can be placed solely into one gender catego­ry. 
Dr. Eileen Hunt Bottig, the director for the Gender Studies Program, spoke about the metaphors for unsuccessful romantic relationships present 
on the show. Dr. Cathleen Kaveny, a John She mentioned a plot line P. Murphy professor of Law, where a character tried to live spoke .about the boyish behav­
her relationship with another character by a contract. Bottig said this is not the way that a true, loving rela­tionship works, and that the sto­ryline showed the errors involved with this way of life. 
"It forces us to contemplate what's wrong about [the rela­
tionships  present  on  the  
show]," Bottig said.  
Dr.  Mark  Gunty,  a  Notre  

Dame sociology professor, said 
how relatable the show's char­acters are. However, Gunty 
within the "It forces us to said all of the 
episodes is so characters are
contemplate what,s 
embedded in caricatures of society's under­wrong about [the various arche­standing of gen­relationships present types of people. der. "These are
on the show]. ,,
However, in caricatures, and real life, gender there is some roles are much Dr. Eileen Hunt Bottig truth in the more subtle, director of types, but the Fuentes said. representations
Gender Studies 
'These are caricatures, and there is some truth in the types, but the representations of whole persons is almost uniformly 

missing.,, 
Dr. Mark Gunty professor of Sociology 
ior present on "The Office." 
She said that Michael Scott, one of the main characters, often engages in behavior that is like a child. 
"What does it mean to be a grown-up?" Kaveny said. 
She listed five characteristics necessary for successful 
of whole per­sons is almost uniformly missing," Gunty said. 
Gunty said that even though viewers of "The Office" can relate to various aspects of each character, they are two­dimensional. People in real life are much more complex than any character in "The Office." 
adulthood: Self-control, aware­ness of other people's bound­aries, sense of one's own boundaries, understanding of what is appropriate in a given situation, and ability to relate to other people's needs. 
Dr. John Cavadini, the chair of the Theology department, said "The Office" presents a great sense of irony and also reveals the flaws in the tradi­tional structure of masculine identity. 
'"The Office' is a place where the women are just as likely to be your boss as they are to be damsels in distress," Cavadini said. 
Cavadini also discussed the illusion of manliness present on the show, citing examples of how each character's mas­culinity is undermined in some way. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 


Health 
continued from page 1 
The blood pressure measure­ments collected, along with the answers to questionnaires, will be analyzed and published. 
ln order to ensure the study is well received in the professional medical research community, Wash said the group has made sure its research is sound. 
"Everything about our study, down to the type of equipment to how we take the blood pressure, is very precise," she said. 
The NDash group is consider­ing a number of health condi­tions related to high blood pres­sure in the study. 
"We're definitely interested in hypertension," Wash said. "This age group is really absent in the literature-the research is lack­ing in blood pressure in young adults." 
All 25 students -mostly jun­iors and seniors interested in pursuing a career in clinical research -in the course "had a chance to give their input about the study" before it launched at the Fair, Wash said. 
She said there has been a lot of work done on the rise in child­hood obesity and diabetes in older adults, but the middle age group -college students ­have been neglected in the research. 
The NDash study, named for the Dash Diet, a program designed to help lower blood pressure, aims to find what fac­tors lead to a risk for hyperten­sion in college-aged young adults and what lifestyle changes can be made to help lower blood pressure. 
The study is being conducted on a purely volunteer basis, Wash said. Currently, students are taking the blood pressures once per participant, "but if any­one wants a follow up we'll take th~ blood pressure a second or third time," she said. 
Over the next six weeks, NDash will be setting up in the communal spaces in all 28 resi­dence halls, making it "very con­venient for all students to partici­pate," Wash said. 
"It takes less than 10 minutes to participate," she said. 
The study's questionnaire is confidential and anonymous and asks the participant's age, height, weight, habits, and family and personal medical histories. The answers will help the students running the study analyze their data. 
"We'lllook at the group of stu­dents who have a parent with diabetes and see if there's a sig­nificant difference in their blood pressures [compared to other students]," Wash said. 
From the outset of the study, participants are given a number that cannot be tied back to their identity, as for all analysis pur­poses the students will not use any identifiable information, Wash said. 
Wash estimated about 50 stu­dents participated at the NDash booth at the Health and Wellness Fair, which was held in the Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center. 
The course's Web site ­httpf/sites.google.com/sitelndash spring2009/Home -lists the dates the students will be at each residence hall to take measure­ments as well as contact infor­mation and other links related to the study. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
World View is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive r;::EllJN!VIiRS!TYOF 
~DE BARTOlO 

dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion. and gender through the arts. WNOTREDAME ~ f>fRfORMINGAATS CfNTER Office ofthe President 
.---------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 19, 2009 
STUDENT SENATE 

Groupponders'FightingforFootlongs' 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Writer 
The bulk of Wednesday's Student Senate meeting was dedicated to a discussion of whether or not student govern­ment should get involved in a fight for $5 footlongs at the Subway in LaFortune. 
A Facebook group dedicated to obtaining the sandwiches in the Huddle has amassed over 1,500 members and inspired student government to add this cause to its agenda. 
Student body president Bob 
Reish said Grant Schmidt, student body vice president, met with the creator of the "Fighting for Footlongs" Facebook group and has scheduled meetings with Jim LaBella, the general manager of the Huddle, and D a v e Prentkowski, the director of Notre Dame Food Services. Schmidt was not present at focus on Subway because the other options are unappealing, like Sbarro and Burger King," he said. "There's always a con­stant line at Subway." 

However, Walsh Hall senator Julie Zorb said many of the girls in her dorm say they are not interested in $5 footlongs. 
"Girls in Walsh say they don't care because they wont eat that large of a sandwich," she said. 
Zorb also said she has heard people complain that students care too much about sandwich prices. 
Reish then asked senators if they think this is an issue stu­
It's important for student government to promote social responsibility, but you guys were elected as senators to represent the students in your hall. This is what you're elected to do ­take student concerns to a higher level." 
Devin Fee Campus Technology Committee chair 
the meeting, but Reish invited the senators to voice concerns Schmidt should convey in these meetings happening later in the week. 
O'Neill Hall senator Kevin Kimberly said this issue is a pri­ority for students because Subway is the most popular food venue in the Huddle. 
"I feel like there is such a 
HEI 
continued from page 1 
in HEI. The company receives near­ly $1.2 billion from endowments at schools including Notre Dame, the University of Chicago, Harvard, Princeton and Yale. 
In a letter to be delivered to University President Fr. John Jenkins Thursday, the members of the Coalition mention Archeta and urge Jenkins to cease Notre Dame's business relations with HEI until the company "respects the dignity of [its] workers." 
Members of the Coalition for Economic Justice began campaign­ing last fall for the University to divest from fffii by presenting a let­ter to Jenkins. 
The Observer reported in November that Jenkins praised the University's social investment policy in a .response letter to the Coalition, and encouraged the group to meet with Scott Malpass, Notre Dame's Chief Investment Officer. 
In the letter, the Coalition writes that Malpass "ha.'i been extremely receptive, and we hope to continue dialogue with him." 
The letter again urges divest­ment: 
"It is important that our University stands in solidarity with HEI's workers, especially in these difficult economic times," the letter says. "We must encourage those 
dent govern­ment should discuss. He questioned whether it is too minor of an issue for student gov­ernment, but he said the huge support the Facebook group has indicates it is an important concern of the student body. 
Social Concerns Committee chair Michelle Byrne said she is disappointed 

students rally in large numbers to support $5 footlongs, while more significant issues -like the revised sexual assault policy that was recently passed by stu­dent government -go unno­ticed. 
"I would like to call us all to a higher standard," she said. Sarah Rodts, Student Outreach Committee chair, said 

with whom we do business to engage in practices that uphold the dignity of workers." 
Vivanco said Unite Here is work­ing to get Le Grand Meridien I lotel in San Francisco to agree to a card check agreement, or "basically an opportunity for the workers to have union representation." 
The difficult economy makes the task even harder, Vivanco said, and Unite Here knows that there are bound to be layoffs, and they cannot "pull off miracles." 
"We are here to organize workers and provide the tools for you to fight for your future," she said. 
Greg August, 47, a banquet serv­ices worker with Le Meridien in San Francisco, said he wants a union at the hotel primarily for job security and health care. 
"That is why we are fighting tor union rights," he said. "Beeause we are going to be covered, under our collective bargaining rights, with health care benefits." 
Ana Flores, 50, is a housekeeper at the same hotel. She said she has worked as a housekeeper for 20 years, and said she has to work hard to teed her family. 
"The thing is, without a union, we have nothing," she said. "If they sell the hotel tomorrow, I will be on the street. I will be homeless. I have no hope, except the union and you guys that arc trying to help us." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Off-Campus Housing 
Dublin VIllage, Irish Crossings, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad 
Now taking applications for 2009-'1 0 www.CESPM.info 
PropertyMgr@CESPM.info L E f.:f::r,:;g,t&ncnt
Call574-968-0112 

Starting at $600 per Student nt..,ully 
...._..,.. ·-,...,..g;,... c,...,,.~~ .. ,.,.,...u_ 

student government should lis­ten to the concerns of students, even if they are about Subway sandwiches, but she said she hopes attention will also be paid to more important issues. 
"I ask that just as much atten­tion be paid to things like the sexual assault policy," she said. 
Despite these concerns, Campus Technology Committee chair Devin Fee said arguing against working for $5 footlongs because of a lack or attention paid to sexual assault is not log­ical. 
"It's important for student government to promote social responsibility, but you guys were elected as senators to rep­resent the students in your hall," he said. "This is what you're elected to do-take stu­dent concerns to a higher level." 
Fee said many students have an unfavorable perception of student government because they believe it does not accom­plish anything. 
He said aiding the fight for footlongs would improve this perception. 
"We need as much good press as we can get," he said. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Student Senate unanimous­ly passed an amendment to con­tinue the Campus Technology Committee. This year, the com­mittee helped obtain printers for every residence hall, put a printer in Jordan Hall and worked on the switch from Webmail to Gmail as the University's official e-mail domain, according to Campus Technology Committee chair Devin Fee. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



Board of Trustees visiting College 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Trustees arrived on campus Wednesday afternoon and will hold several meetings that will conclude on Friday. The Board of Trustees visits four times each year meet­ing in October, February, April and June. 
One unique aspect of the visits is the amount of student partici­pation with the Board. Many stu­dents are allowed to actively work with the Board to better life at the College. 
Senior Courtney Parry is the student trustee for the 2008­2009 school year and serves with the Board. 
"Each year on senior is chosen to serve on the Board in this role," she said. "As such, I attend all Board meetings and have full voting privileges on the Board. I also must maintain confidentiali­ty of Board sessions." 
Parry also said that the Board typically meets "to discuss issues pertaining to the College. Board members are essentially fiduciar­ies of the College and seek to pro­mote its best interests. The Board balances coordinating the College's short, mid-term, and long-tenn goals." 
Like Parry, several other stu­dents are able to participate in Board meetings. Student body president, Mickey Gruscinski sit.'> on the Student Life Committee and represents the Board of Governance (BOG). 
"I am honored to interact with the Board as a member of Board of Governance," Gruscinski said. "As Student Body President, I am honored to sit on certain commit­tees, and this happens to be one of them. I will be attending the Student Life Committee mMting. I will give feedback from the stu­dents to the Board members." 
Many different organizations at the College have representatives attending meetings with the Board ofTrustees. 
Adriana Rodriguez, a junior at the College and President of the Student Diversity Board (SDB) attended the meetings. 
•"As President of the Student Diversity Board, I am a voting member of the Board of Trustees Enrollment Management Committee," she said. "This com­mittee reviews any issues that influence or affect enrollment and retention at Saint Mary's College. The committee discusses these issues and determines courses of action or suggested ideas." 
Maura Clughert, Residence Hall Association president is another participant in the Board ofTrustees. 
"I will be giving student input and opinions to the topics dis­cussed at this meeting, especially how these topics affect the Residence Halls on Saint Mary's College campus," she said. 
Sarah Falvey, student body vice president is also one of the stu­dents who sits on the board. 
"I sit on the Education Committee of the Board of Trustees. Since I handle the aca­demic side ofstudent life, my role on this committee is to provide student insight," she said. 
The Board will visit Saint Mary's again in April for more discussion. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

! 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 19, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Stanford Banks refuse depositers 
ST. JOHN'S, Antigua -Panicky depositors were turned away from Stanford International Bank and some of its Latin American afflliates Wednesday, unable to withdraw their money after U.S. regulators accused Texas financier R. Allen Stantord of perpetrating an $8 billion fraud against his companies' investors. 
Some customers arrived in Antigua by pri­vate jet and were driven up the lushly land­scaped driveway of the bank's headquarters, only to be told that all assets have been frozen pending an investigation by Antiguan banking regulators. 
Gaza Ship's borders remain closed 
JERUSALEM Israel declared Wednesday that it will not open the Gaza Strip's blockaded borders until Barnas mil­itants free a captured Israeli soldier, deal­ing a blow to Egyptian efforts-to broker a long-term cease-fire. 
The decision was condemned by Barna~, which is desperate for border crossings to be opened in order to start repairing destruction from Israel's military offensive in the coastal territory last month. 
In parallel, the prime minister of the rival Palestinian government in the West Bank announced plans to str:eam recon­struction money directly to the people of Gaza. That would effectively sideline the Barnas administration in Gaza. 
Gaza's borders have been sealed by Israel and Egypt since the Islamic militants of Barnas violently seized control of the territory nearly two years ago, driving out supporters of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Chimpanzee attacks friend of owner 
STAMFORD, Conn. -As authorities con­sidered criminal charges, the woman whose 200-pound domesticated chimpanzee went berserk and mauled a friend backtracked Wednesday on whether she gave the animal the anti-anxiety drug Xanax. 
Sandra Herold told The Associated Press on Wednesday that she never gave the drug to her 14-year-old chimp, Travis, who was shot dead by Stamford police Monday after he grievously wounded Herold's friend Charla Nash. 
Police have said they are looking into the possibility of criminal charges. A pet owner who knew or should have known that an ani­mal was a danger to others can be held criminally responsible. 
Smoker's widow wins lawsuit 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. -Philip Morris was ordered by a jury Wednesday to pay $8 million in damages to the widow of a smoker who died of lung cancer in a case that could set a standard for some 8,000 similar Florida law­suits. 
The six jurors deliberated over two days before returning the award for Elaine Hess, 63, whose husband Stuart Hess died in 1997 at age 55 after decades as a chain smoker. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Immigration crackdown approved 
INDIANAPOUS -A bill that would revoke the business licenses of companies that repeatedly hire illegal workers won unanimous support from a Senate committee Wednesday. 
The committee took the unusual step of hold­ing three separate meetings on the proposal ­listening to supporters and opponents -before taking a vote. 
Sen. Mike Delph, R-Carmel, supports legisla­tion to punish companies hiring illegal workers. He noted that the legislation saves the toughest punishments for companies that knowingly and repeatedly hire illegal workers. "It's a safety factor," said Sen. Jim Arnold, D-LaPorte. 

U.S..economy will worsen in 2009 
Federal officials estimate a bleaker future than predicted in Nov_ember '08 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Federal Reserve warned Wednesday that the nation's crippled economy is even worse than thought and pre­dicted it would deteriorate throughout 2009, with no sign that the housing market will stabilize. 
The Fed's bleak estimates indicated that unemploy­ment eould climb as high as 
8.8 percent this year and that the economy would con­tract for a full calendar year for the first time since 1991. 
The central bank's latest projections came hours after a separate rep~rt showed that new home construction and applications for future projects both fell to record lows last month. 
Still, some economists saw a silver lining in the other­wise dismal housing report: Scaled-back building should reduce the number of unsold homes and contribute to an eventual housing recovery. 
The reports raise the stakes for the plan President Barack Obama announced Wednesday to curb (oreclo­sures and ease the broader 
U.S. housing slump that sent the economy into recession. 

The Fed's latest forecast says the unemployment rate will climb to between 8.5 and 8.8 percent this year. The old prediction, issued in mid-November, estimated that the jobless rate would would mark the weakest the nation's factories, mines 4.8 percent drop from the rise to between 7.1 and 7.6 showing since a 1.9 percent and utilities fell 1.8 percent prior month. percent. drop in 1982, when the last month, more than econ­"Conditions in the market 
Many private economists country had suffered omists expected. That figure, for new homes have not believe the current 7.6 per­through a severe recession. the third monthly drop in a been this bad since the cent jobless rate -the high­The grim outlook repre­row, was dragged down by a 1930s, and they continue to est in more than 16 years -sents the growing toll of the 23 percent drop in produc­worsen," said Patrick will hit at least 9 percent by worst housing, credit and tion at auto plants and their Newport, an economist at early next year even with the financial crises since the suppliers. IHS Global Insight in $787 billion stimulus pack­1930s. All of those negative Meanwhile, construction of Lexington, Mass. He predict­age signed into law Tuesday forces have plunged the new homes and apartments ed that housing starts would byObama. nation into a recession, now plummeted 16.8 percent in remain depressed for 
The Fed also believes the in its second year. January from the previous months to come. economy will contract this "Given the strength of the month, the Commerce But other economists saw year between 0.5 and 1.3 forces currently weighing on Department said, falling to a some glimmers of hope in percent. The old forecast the economy," Fed officials seasonally adjusted annual the report. The sharp cuts in said the economy could "generally expected that the rate of 466,000 units, a new home building should shrink by 0.2 percent or recovery would be unusually record low. Analysts expect­help reduce inventories of expand by 1.1 percent. gradual and prolonged," ed a pace of 530,000 housing unsold homes, which 
The last time the economy according to documents on units. reached record levels last registered a contraction for a the Fed's updated economic Building permits, a meas­year, and stabilize home full year was in 1991, by 0.2 outlook. ure of future activity, also prices, which have been bat­percent. If the Fecrs new In another sign of the trou­sank to a record low pace of tered by a flood of foreclosed predictions prove correct, it bled economy, production at 521,000 units in January, a homes on the market. 


Nonprofits see increase in volunteers 
a good way to gain a lot of experience the time of Obama's inauguration. 
Associated Press 

in a short amount of time and after As a former community organizer, 
BOSTON -Meghan McCloskey the job I have now, I don't know if I Obama advocated public service heard the call to service when she could find another job in the econo­throughout his campaign and encour­was in college, applying to the Peace my." aged Americans to spend Martin 
Corps during her senior year. That Volunteer organizations such as the Luther King Jr. Day volunteering. call only got louder as she realized Peace Corps and Teach for America Obama's administration also has sev­her shrinking job options in the fal­say the floundering economy and eral initiatives promoting service, tering economy. President Barack Obama's call for including expanding the Peace Corps 
"Just having some sort of security service have led to a major increase and AmeriCorps. for two years and not going through in applications. When applying to Peace Corps, the job application process every two Teach for America received a most college graduates speak first months and internships until some­record 14,000 applications by about their desire to serve. But they one wants to pay you is good," said November, an almost 50 percent also learn a foreign language and McCloskey, 23, an administrative increase over the previous year. And gain valuable international experi­assistant who completed the Peace Peace Corps applications rose 16 per­ence that can further their future Corps application process and is cent from fiscal year 2007 to 2008, careers, organization spokeswoman 
awaiting her country placement. "It's with a big spike registered around Laura Lartigue said. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 19, 2009 
Oba01a 
continued from page 1 
psychology, Spencer Howard, a senior political science major and president of the College Democrats, Naunihal Singh, a political science professor, and Lois Jackson, a former student and assistant VP & counsel and concurrent assistant pro­fessor at the Law School. 
Erdina Francil, president of Shades of Ebony, who moder­ated the discussion, began the panel by expressing the reason for the event being held. 
"We are here today because Black History Month isn't an event for only African Americans to celebrate," she said. "It should be a time to celebrate diversity and come together as a country." 
She then addressed the pan­elists for the first time, asking why they became involved in the campaign with Obama. 
Lucero said she was previ­ously hesitant to join in any political activity, but said this election was more personal than any other in het lifetime. 
"This election really hit home, I wanted my family to know where my views stood," Lucero said. 
Howard, unlike Lucero, has been highly active in politics for many years. He said he wanted to get involved in order to break the stereotype that young people are not politically active. 
"We started a PAC [Political Action Committee] called the Northern Indiana College Democrats, which apparently was the first student~run cam­paign office in the country," Howard said. 
Francil then posed the ques­tion of why there were differ­ent types of people involved during this campaign, and how inclusion and civic engage­ment affected this involve­ment. 
Addressing the diversity of the president's family tree, Singh offered the explanation that Obama is a universal can­didate who fits all peoples' backgrounds in a number of different ways. 
Howard said Obama has a way of transcending bound­aries and a way of showing all that he respects their views. 
When asked how the cam­paign caused them to think differently about inclusion and civic engagement, the pan­elists responded that while the country has a long way to go in conquering the issue of racism, large strides were made. 
Simmons said progress was made but the country is not yet perfect. 
"It has taken a long time to get this far," she said. "But we still have a long way to go." 
Many of the members of the panel had campaigned door­to-door for Obama, and when asked if people said anything shocking or offensive at tho doorsteps, all agreed that while there were a few extreme cases, overall, people were inviting and polite. 
"There were a large number of people that were able to talk about the issue of diversity and the election," Orozco­Acosta said. 
Orozco-Acosta also said the groups that were created dur­ing the campaign must conijn­ue meeting and creating and attaining new goals to help the 
success of the presidency. 
Francil asked the panel how the newly-electnd president will change the country, and what still needs to be done to bridge the racial gap. 
"This election comos at a great time because it is not so much black and white, there are people of all races and col­ors that are starving right now," Simmons said. "People don't feel the noed to al'liliate with their race because we all want the same things at the end of the day." 
The panel also discussed what needs to be done to pro­mote diversity on campus. 
Jackson said that it is impor­tant to encourage dialogue. 
"No one is naive enough to think that America's problem with diversity an~ over now that we have elected an African-American presidnnt," she said. "Students nnnd to be proactive and push their agen­da by deciding what actions they want to take." 
The discussion coneluded with questions from thn audi­ence. 
One subject talked about was the diversity sessions that are included in all contempo­rary topics classos that arn mandatory for first-ye.ar stu-. dents. 
Members of tho audience and the panel voiced their eon­cern that students in atten­dance at these sessions were not engaged enough. They also 
. said that they hoped to lind a way to increase interest and participation in those discus­sions. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 


Projects 
continued from page 1 

dos and houses, but Ilakanen stressed that it is gearnd toward families and professionals in the area, not student<>. 
"It is absolut!1ly not targeted 
-towards student housing," he said. "One problem we were trying to address was when four, five or six students live in a rental house next to a family. '!bat often doesn't work out so well." While students generally will not be renting apartments in Eddy Street Commons, they will finally have stores and eateries within walking di<>tance of campus, Hakanen said. I Iakanen said there will be two upscale restaurants, an Irish pub and an oyster house, and several fast, casual eateries. The casual calbs will provide quick food without waiters, but they are a step above fa<>t liJod rnstaurants, he said. There will also be several retail stores, an electronic store and an extension of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The names of the specific stores and natmins will be released whnn thP contract<> am finalized, he said. Affleek-Graves said the Eddy Strent Commons will create "more of an urban living environment," which can potentially draw people to the Univnrsity. The Commons are also in walking di<>tanee of the northeast neighbor­hood. where the University owns m~my lot<> it u<>es to construct tradi­tional-looking houses for University faculty, Alllnck GravL>s said. AIJleek-Gravcs said the University, in conjunction with the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Group (NNHO), a grassroots community organization, rebuilds decrepit hom>­es and develops empty lols in the 
area in the hopes of establishing a traditional neighborhood li:>r both Notre Dame faculty and members of tim community who am not affiliated with the University. 
"People see that it's nice to live in a neighborhood where the homes have a very traditional look," he said. "We control the design of the home so they look like flmy've been there a longtime." 
The project allows the University to give professors housing options close to campus in a nice neighbor­hood, Affieck-Graves said. 
"A lot of faculty want to live close to the University,.and it's nim we can offer them something," he said. 
While Eddy Street Commons and the Northeast Neighborhood Hevitalization Project offer students and faculty dining, entertainment and living options, Innovation Park will benefit them in another way. 
Although Innovation Park is inde­pendent from Notre Dame, President and CEO David Brenner said the park will have many intern­ship opportmJities for students inter­ested in research, and University fac­ulty will be able to extend their aca­demic research into the business world. 
'"There will be an im~redible array of ways to engage Notre Dame's research, giving faculty and students a much stronger sense of what is expected in the marketplace fiJr their ideas," he said. 
Brenner said students with intern­ships would be able to walk to the Park after class and work with start­up businesses as well as large, estab­lished companies. 
The third part of this series will look a1 how these projects affect the ."iouth Bend commwzity and it..<> role in the projects' development. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Dockwciler Award for Excellence in UndcrgTaduatc Advising 


Student. faculty and staff nominations are sought to identify faculty or professional Student and faculty nominations are sought to identify faculty who: staff members whose involvement with undergraduates inspires students to reach their academic and career goals. Nominees may be members of the academic advising and • Create environments that stimulate significant student learning career counseling staffs or members of the faculty and staff who: • Elevate students to a new level of intellectual engagement 
• Foster students' ability to express themselves effectively within the discipline 
• 
Facilitate learning outside the classroom 


• 
Serve as mentors or role models Nominations due by Tuesday, March 3. Nineteen recipients will be selected. 

• 
Encourage student participation in fellowships, internships, undergraduate research and post -graduate opportunities 

• 
Cultivate relationships with organizations that recruit Notre Dame graduates 



Nominations are due Tuesday, March 3. Three faculty or staff will be chosen. 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
Submit online nominations at pro,·ostawards.nd.cdu. ~NOTRE DAME 
Office of rhe Provost 



Thursday, February 19, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,555.63 +3.03 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,099 98 2,696 2,424,'935,460 
AMEX 1i~~~;99 ·¥2Z;~rz;. NASDAQ 1,467.97 NYSE .. 4,924.54 . ,J4-A57 S&P 500 788.42 -0.75 
NIKKEI (Tokyo) 7,576;1~9 +47•.45\ 
FTSE 100 (London) 41006.83 -27.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) ·0.24 ·0.19 49.03 BK OF AMERICA (SAC) ·6.73 ·0.33 4.57 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) 0.00 0.00 7.97 WELLS FARGO & CO (WFC) ·4.67 ·0.64 13.05 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE . +2.48 +0.066 2.73 13-WEEK BILL +5.26 +0.020 0.30 30-YEAR BOND +1.12 +0.039 3.53 S·YEAR NOTE +6.51 +0.109 1.78 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbf.) -0.31 34.62 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +10.70 978.20 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.60 80.35 
Exchange Rates  
YEN  93.6850  
EURO  1.2576  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.2582  
BRITISH POUND  1.42.58  

IN BRIEF 
UBS faces $780 million in fines 
WASHINGTON -Banking giant UBS has 
agreed to pay $780 million and turn over once­
secret Swiss banking records to settle allegations 
it conspired to defraud the U.S. government of 
taxes owfld by thousands of American clients. 
As part of the deal struck in federal court in 
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., UBS has made the 
unprecedented step of agreeing to immediately 
turn over to the U.S. government account infor­
mation for U.S. customers of the bank's cross­
border business. 
In doing so, federal authorities have struck a 
big crack in Switzerland's vaunted bank secrecy 
laws. 
UBS will pay $780 million in fmes, penalties, 
interest and restitution for conspiring to create 
sham accounts to hide the assets of U.S. clients 
from the U.S. government. 
Obama aims to save homeowners 
MESA, Ariz -President Barack Obama threw a 
$75 billion lifeline to millions of Americans on the 
brink of foreclosure Wednesday, declaring an 
urgent need for drastic action -not only to save 
their homes but to keep the housing crisis "from 
wreaking even greater havoc" on the.broader 
national economy. 
The lending plan, a full $25 billion bigger than 'the administration had been suggesting, aims to 
prevent as many as 9 million homeowners from 
being evicted and to stabilize housing markets that 
are at the center of the ever-worsening U.S. reces­
sion. 
Government support pledged to mortgage giants 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is being doubled as 
well, to $400 billion, a.<; part of an effort to encour­
age them to refinance loans that are 'under water' 
-those in which homes' market values have sunk 
below the amount thA owners still owe. 
"All of us are paying a price for this home mort­
gage crisis, and all of us will pay an even steeper 
price if we allow this crisis to continue to deepen," 
Obamasaid. 
The nnw prnsident, focusing closely on the econ­
omy, in his first month in office, rolled out the 
hm;sing program one day after he was in Denver 
to sign his $787 billioo emergency stimulus plan to 
revivn the rest of the economy. And his administra­
tion is just now going over fn~sh requests for multi­
ple billions in bailout ca.<>h from ailing automakers. 
-----------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

L.A. regulates billboard advertising 
Public outcry prompts city officials to reevaluate 'supergraphics' regulations 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -David 
Allan works in advertis­
ing -literally. The six­
story building where the 
chiropractor works is 
draped in it. 
"It's awful. it's ridicu­
lous," he said of the mas­
sive vinyl banner promot­
ing TV shrink Dr. Phil 
McGraw that obscures 
his view of the scenic 
Santa Monica Mountains. 
Such supergraphics and 
digital signs are among 
the new generation of 
public ads infuriating 
critics across thA country 
who say the "billboard 
blight" distracts drivers, 
hurts the look of streets 
and could hinder access 
by rescue crews. 
Kevin Fry, president of the Washington-based anti-billboard group Scenic America, said Los Angeles has the worst billboard problem in the country. 
The proliferation has 
prompted officials to 
impose a moratorium on 
new ads as the city con­
siders new regulations 
aimed at reducing the 

number of billboards, California. the firm behind the Dr. story office building in 
limiting their size and "It's like junk mail or Phil ad. West Los Angeles draped 
increasing penalties junk phone calls, except "The last thing I'd ever with an ad for the film 
against those who flout this is changing the pub­want to do is endanger "Watchmen'' and a 
the rules. Past efforts lic environment in very somebody," he said. provocative series of 
largely collapsed after visible ways," he said. Advertisers can pay ads for American 
court challenges by the Advertisers counter more than $8,000 for a Apparel in residential 
billboard industry. that new billboard tech­standard billboard on a Echo Park as some of the 
The new regulations nologies help businesses busy Los Angeles thor­most disruptive bill­would also ban digital reach consumers in an oughfare, compared to boards. billboards in most parts age when TiVo users can $110,000 for a prominent They note that enforce­of the city. The Planning skip through commer­supergraphic, said ment has traditionally Commission is scheduled cials and newspaper ads Megan Weiss, a strategist been lax and attitudes to consider the rules on are reaching fewer read­with The Phelps Group toward ads have been Thursday. ers. marketing agency. permissive in the city 
Meanwhile, misde-They insist that safety The spread of bill­where the Hollywood sign 
meanor charges have fears are exaggerated boards also has sparked was erected decades ago 
been filed against firms and stress that courts increasingly vocal oppo­as a way to promote a 
suspected of violating the have repeatedly sided sition in cities such as housing tract. 
city moratorium on new with their right to adver­Cleveland, San Antonio The most: recent round 
supergraphic and digital tise. and Omaha, Neb. of billboard opposition 
billboards. "As far as any kind of Community groups in crystalized two years ago 
"The billboard industry health and safety issues New York also are object­when major outdoor 
in the city is clearly out are concerned, that's a ing as outdoor ads advertising companies 
of control," said Planning ruse by the city" to cir­spread deeper into reached a series of court 
Commission member cumvent the court rul­Manhattan from Times settlements with the city 
Mike Woo, who teaches ings, said Barry Rush, Square. that activists viewed as a 
urban planning at the managing partner of In Los Angeles, oppo­giveaway to the billboard 
University of Southern World Wide Rush LLC, nents point to a four-industry. 

Stimulus is affecting financial aid 
the downturn. But sometimes that means well-off stu­
Associated Press 

"For a long time, the discussion was dents get both a free ride -and a new 
Johnny's a middle-class student who about the middle-income squeeze -ride (when their parents reward a worked hard to get good grades and a wealthy people could pay for. (college), scholarship by using the college fund to high SAT score. Jane's record isn't as poor people were getting grants, peo­buy them a car). good, but her family is low-income, and ple in the middle were having a hard The federal stimulus package without help she might not be able to time," said Vanderbilt University edu­President Obama signed into Jaw go to college at all. cation professor William Doyle. While Tuesday, however, was notably focused 
Who should be first in line for help ideally college would be cheaper for on helping the poorest families through from the government to pay for col­everyone, he said, the research is clear college, with the largest increase ever lege? that "the most efficient way to spend to the Pell Grant program, which most­
It's a debate that hits hot-button the money is to focus on the margins, ly supports students from families 
questions about fairness and opportu­people who wouldn't otherwise go." earning under $30,000 a year. nity, and lately, many experts think the Over the last decade, nearly every Merit-based aid, meanwhile, has middle class has been winning. state has started or expanded political­taken a hit in several states. New 
But the economic meltdown could be ly popular "merit aid" programs that Jersey recently imposed tougher stan­shifting the playing field, as the govern­reward students with high SAT scores dards and cut back on its Student ment and colleges themselves are or GPAs, even those whose families Tuition Assistance Reward Scholarship. forced to focus on helping the neediest could afford college costs. Michigan may have to reduce its students and try to head ofT a wave of Colleges have done the same with Promise scholarship. Nevada has dropouts. their own money, dangling fmancial aid already moved money out of a program 
Some experts think that could prove to attract students who will improve that gave as much as $1 0,000 to top one of the few beneficial outcomes of the college's ranking and reputation. high school graduates. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 19, 2009 
ICE pressured to tneet quotas 
Immigration and Custmns Enforcement behind on 1,000 arrests per team goal 
Associated Press 
LANGLEY PARK -U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested 24 Hispanics at a convenience store in Baltimore two years ago after their supervisor told them to "bring more bodies" because they were behind their annual quota of 1,000 arrests per team, according to an ICE report released Wednesday. 
The immigration rights group CASA de Maryland, which has accused ICE of racial profiling in the 2007 raid, released the agency's internal investigation report and said it shows that the agents acted improperly. 
The report contradicts some sworn declarations made by ICE agents involved in the sweep, prompting the agency's Acting Assistant Secretary John Torres to ask for an investigation into incon­sistencies, ICE spokeswoman Ernestine Fobbs said Wednesday. Meanwhile, CASA officials have called on Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to review the agency's enforcement policies. 
"Government agents should not be in the business of judging peo­
• 
pie based on the color of their skin, clothing and employment, which is what seems to have occurred here," the Rev. Simon Bautista Betances, vice president of CASA's board of directors said Wednesday. 
CASA officials have charged that ICE agents ignored blacks and whites at the 7 -Eleven store as they rounded up all of the Hispanics, even crossing the street to detain Hispanics waiting at a b:us stop. 
Soon after the raid, Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) asked for an investigation into whether the ICE officers racially profiled· the people they arrested. ICE's internal probe found the allega­tions to be unsubstantiated, Fobbs said. 
"I have confidence that the new Department of Homeland Sllcurity Secretary Janet Napolitano will fairly address this and other immi­gration issues," Mikulski said in an e-mailed statement in response to Wednesday's report. 
Of the 24 men arrested in the raid, one proved that he was in the country legally, 19 were deported or voluntarily returned to their native countries and four remain in immigration proceedings, said Justin Cox, an attorney with CASA representing some of the men. 
The ICE agents involved in the raid are part of the agency's fugi­tive operations program, which tracks down violent criminals liv­ing in the country illegally. Agency records from the program show that beginning in 2004, the teams were assigned to arrest at least 125 fugitive immigrants. In 2006, each team's quota was increased to 1,000 fugitive arrests. 
"Our current enforcement of the immigration policy based on quo­tas lead to the separation of fami­lies and civil rights violations," said Gustavo Torres, CASA's executive director. 'The evidence speaks for itself." 
The debate over the raid centers on whether the agents had proba­bly cause to detain the men or whether agents targeted them simply because they were Hi<>panic. 
In sworn declarations, some oiii­cers said they stopped at the 7­Eleven to take a break aftor sever­al hours of arresting fugitive immi­grants in neighboring counties. When thP agents arrived, they said Hispanie day laborers surrounded their vehicles asking for work and, when questioned, admitted they were in the country unlawfully. 

Soldier pleads guilty to assault 
Associated Press 

FORT CAMPBELL -An Army staff sergeant who was facing a murder charge in the death of an Iraqi detainee pleaded guilty to assault on Wednesday and reeeived more than a year's con­fmement. 
Staff Sgt. Hal M. Warner was sentenced to 17 months' confine­ment, had his rank reduced to private and wa<; given a bad con­duct discharge. He pleaded guilty to charges of assault, maltreat­ment of a subordinate and mak­ing a false statement. 
Another soldier, 1st Lt. Michael Behenna of Edmond, Okla., faces trial next week on a murder charge in the death of detainee Ali Mansour Mohammed in May 2008. Prosecutors say Behenna shot Mohammed, then used and incendiary grenade to burn the detainee's body. 
Warner admitted Wednesday to standing on the detainee's legs while he. was defenseless during the assault then days later help­ing strip Mohammed naked and leaving him in the desert. 
Prosecutors say Behenna later shot the detainee. 
As part of his plea agreement, Warner agreed to testify in any future cases n~lated to the inci­dent. One of Warner's attorneys, Capt. Pete Madrinan, said Warner will testify next week at Behenna's trial. 
Both men .were assigned to the 101st Airborne Division, based at the sprawling military post on the Kentucky-Tennessee line. 
Capt. Meghan Poirier, one of the prosecutors, told judge Col. Theodore Dixon that Warner humiliated Mohammed in the days leading up to his death and that the actions hurt the mili­tary's efforts to win over the Iraqi people. 
"Staff Sgt. Warner knew what he was doing," Poirier said. "He kne~ he w~. doing it to a person at his mercy. 
Madrinan said Warner's long service record earned him a sec­ond chance. 
"On one ocea<>ion, on his third tour in Iraq, Sgt. Warner lost sight of what he's supposed to do," Madrinan said. 

Geronitno's kin sue Skull and Bones over remains 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD -Geronimo's descendants have sued Skull and Bones -the secret society at Yale University linked to presi­dents and other powerful figures -claiming that its members stole the remains of the leg­endary Apache leader decades ago and have kept them ever since. 
The federal lawsuit filed in Washington on Tuesday -the 100th anniversary of Geronimo's death -also names the univer­sity and the federal government. 
Geronimo's great-grandson Ilarlyn Geronimo said his family believes Skull and Bones mem­bers took some of the remains in 1918 from a burial plot in Fort Sill, Okla., to keep in its New Haven clubhouse, a crypt. The alleged graverobbing is a long­standing legend that gained some validity in recent years with the discovery of a letter from a club member that described the theft. 
"I believe strongly from my heart that his spirit was never released," 1-Iarlyn Geronimo said. 
Both Presidents Bush, Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry and many others in powerful government and industry posi­tions are members of the society, which is not affiliated with the university. 
After years of famously fight­ing the U.S. and Mexican armies, Geronimo and 35 warriors sur­rendered to Gen. Nelson A. Miles near the Arizona-New Mexico border in 1886. Geronimo was eventually sent to Fort Sill and died at the Army outpost of pneumonia in 1909. 
According to lore, members of Skull and Bones -including for­mer President George W. Bush's grandfather, Prescott Bush ­dug up his grave when a group of Army volunteers from Yale were stationed at the fort during World War I, taking his skull and some of his bones. 
Harlyn Geronimo, 61, wants those remains and any held by the federal government turned over to the family so they can be reburied near the Indian leader's birthplace in southern New 
Mexico's Gila Wilderness. 
Their lawsuit also names President Barack Obama, Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Army Secretary Pete Geren as defendants. 
"I want them to understand we mean business," said Harlyn Geronimo, who lives in New Mexico. "We're very serious. We're tired of waiting and we're coming after them." 
Neither members of Skull and Bones, who dosely guard their secrecy, nor the Russell Trust Association, the organization's business arm for tax purposes, could not be reached for com­ment. 
Justice Department spokesman Andrew Ames said the govern­ment will "review the complaint and respond in court at the appropriate time." 
Fort Sill spokeswoman Nancy Elliot declined to discuss the law­suit, but said officials have always maintained there is no evidence supporting the deseen­dants' claims. 
Yale officials declined to com­ment Wednesday, saying they had not yet seen the lawsuit. Spokesman Tom Conroy noted the Skull and Bones crypt is not on Yale property. 
Membership into Skull and Bones marks the elite of the elite at the Ivy League school. Only 15 Yale seniors are asked to join each year. 
Members swear an oath of secrecy about the group and its strange rituals, which include devotion to the number "322" · and initiation rites such as con­fessing sexual secrets and kiss­ing a skull. The atmosphere makes Skull and Bones favorite fodder for conspiracy theorists. 
Its most enduring story is the one concerning Geronimo's remains, and in 2005, Yale histo­rian Marc-Wortman discovered a letter written in 1918 from one Skull and Bones member to another that seemed to lend validity to the tale. 
The letter, sent to F. Trubee Davison by Winter Mead, said Geronimo's skull and other dle horn," Mead wrote. remains were taken from the Wortman, however, has said he leader's burial site, along with is skeptieal the bones are actual­several pieces of tack for a ly Geronimo's. horse. Geronimo's descendants say in 

"The skull of the worthy their lawsuit that they want to Geronimo the Terrible, exhumed uncover any information that from its tomb at Fort Sill by your people know, but have been club and Knight llafl"uer, is now keeping to themselves. safe inside the T -together with "To assure that all existing is well worn femurs, bit and sad-remains of Geronimo and funer-ary objects are recovered by Geronimo's linear descendants, the Order of Skull and Bones and Yale University must account for any such articles that are or have been in their possession; or on their property, and persons with knowledge must provide any facts known to them con­cerning the claims," the descen­dants' lawsuit says. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, February 19, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Man shoots self while in .church 
Associated Press 
GARDEN GR0\1 E -A man shot and killed himself in front of a cross inside tele­vangelist Robert H. Schuller's Crystal Cathedral on Wednesday as a nearby vol­unteer told a group of visitors about the church's suicide­prevention program, police and church officials said. 
The man handed a note and his driver's licEnse to two ushers, walked to the cross and then shot himself in the head as he appeared to be praying, Senior Jf>astor Juan Carlos Ortiz said. 
The Orange County coro­ner's office identified the man as Steve Smick, 48. Church spokesman Mike Nason said there was no record of Smick being a member c.t the cathe­dral. 
Betty Spicer, cc volunteer usher at the famous sanctu­ary, said she greeted Smick when he entered. She said he handed her a folded note with two cards inside as the man told her: "You may want this." 
Spicer said he then walked to the foot of the cross. She and Yvette Manson, another volunteer, said they thought Smick was praying when they h.eard a pop. 
The man used a semiauto­matic handgun, said police Lt. Dennis Ellsworth. 
A tourist, one in a group of several visitors frl)m Canada, told Manson thn man had shot himself. 
"I didn't realize it. I thought he was praying," ~;picer said. 
Manson said she "had just finished telling them about our intervention hotline that we have -suicide prevention on the fifth floor -and all of a sudden I heard this pop, a loud pop, it almost sounded like a firecracker," she said. 
Spicer said one of Smick's cards was a driver's license, and that the note mentioned a pickup truck in the parking lot. 
Cathedral spokesman John Charles said none of the tourists was injured. 
The glass-walled, 10,000­member megachurch in Orange County is home to the "Hour of Power" broadcast, an evangelism staple aired internationally for more than three decades. Thousands visit the cathedral to see where the broadcast is filmed before a live congregation. 
It was not immediately clear where Schuller was at the time of the shooting. 
Afterward, police could be seen through the cathedral's glass doors investigating the scene and taking photo­graphs before the body was removed. They also searched his pickup truck, Ellsworth said. 
There have been two other shootings at the church in recent years. 
In December 2004, Crystal Cathedral Orchestra conduc­tor Johnnie Carl, 57, killed himself at the complex after_ a standoff that began when he opened fire in offices before a Christmas pageant. He had been hospitalized for severe depression. 

Facebook backtracks after protests 
Web site rethinks new terms of service, seeks to reassure users 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK ~ In an about-face following a tor­rent of online protests, Facebook is backing off a change in its user policies while it figures how best to resolve questions like who controls the information shared on the social net­working site. 
The site, which boasts 17 5 million users from around the world, had qui­etly updated its terms of use -its governing docu­ment -a couple of weeks ago. The changes sparked an uproar after popular consumer rights advocacy blog Consumerist.com pointed them out Sunday, in a post titled "Facebook's New Terms Of Service: 'We Can Do Anything We Want With Your Content. Forever.'" 
Facebook has since 
sought to reassure its users -tens of thousands of whom had j o i n e d protest groups on the site ­that this is not the case. And on Wednesday morning, users who logged on to Facebook 

"We need a license in order to help you share information with your friends, but we don't claim to own your information.,, 
message to Facebook users 
Facebook's founder, who told users in a blog post Monday that "on Facebook, people own their informa­tion and con­trol who they share it with." 
Zuckerberg, who started Facebook while still in college, also acknowl­edged that a 
were greeted by a message saying that the site is reverting to its previous terms of use policies while it resolves the issues raised. 

Facebook spelled out, in quell user protests, and the plain English rather than site also created a group the legalese that prompted called "Facebook Bill of the protests, that it "does­Rights and n't claim rights to any of Responsibilities," designed your photos or to let users other content. give input on We need a Facebook's license in terms of use.
"We never intended 
order to help to claim ownership It also apolo­you share gized for
over people's content
information what it called 
with your even though that's "the confu­friends, but we what it seems like to sion around don't claim to these issues."
many people.,
own your "We never information." intended to Tens of thou­Mark Zuckerberg claim owner­sands of users Facebook founder ship over 
joined protest groups on Facebook, say-· ing the new terms grant the site the ability to control their information forever, even after they cancel their accounts. 
This prompted a clarifica­tion from Mark ·zuckerberg, 
"lot of the language in our terms is overly formal and protective of the rights we need to provide this service 
to you." .· But this wasn't enough to people's con­
tent even 

though that's what it seems like to many people," read a post from Facebook on the bill of rights page. 
The latest controversy was not the first between the rapidly growing site and its users over its five­year history. 
In late 2007, a tracking tool called "Beacon" caught users o-ff-guard by broad­casting information about their shopping habits and activities at other Web sites. After initially defend­ing the practice, Facebook ultimately allowed users to turn Beacon off. A redesign of the site last year also prompted thousands to protest, but in that case Facebook kept its new look. 
Palo Alto, Calif.-based Facebook is privately held. Microsoft Corp. bought a 
1.6 percent stake in the company in 2007 for $240 million as part of a broader advertising partnership. 


SCHOOL OF LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SCIENCE 
Graduate degrees with a future. All maiors welcome. 
www.slis. indiana.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 19, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

Phelps scandal is reefer madness 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Hune, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574} 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574} 631-5313 NEWS DESK {574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd..edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(57 4) 631-8839 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rt!garding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChkfChris Hine. 
POST 0FRCE INFORMATION 
The Ohserv~r (USPS 599 2-4000} .is published Monday through Friday cxcep(: duri~ exam and va~riun periods. A subscription t(J ~ Oh~nrcr is $100 &.r one acadcmt~; yca:r,$55foronel1Cfll~fcr. 
The Obsctver iS publishW ar: POSIMASTER 024 Souili Dining Halt Send addttss corrections to:: Nom Dame, IN 46556-0n9 TheOblitrvcr Pmodical posugc paid ru: Notre Dame P.O. 0..779 and additional mailing offic«. 024 South Dining Holl 
No>n< o ... ,. IN 46556-0779 
Th~ Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rlghrs are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Mandi Stirone Matt Gamber Ashley Charnley Mike Gotimer Megan Loney Alex West Graphics Viewpoint Mary Jesse Patricia Scene Fernandez Mark Witt):' 
In 2004, Michael Phelps was arrested for drunk driving. He struck a plea bar­gain, served 18 months' probation, and was able to move on with minimal dam­age to his athletic career. Phelps bounced back from the controversy in Ben Linskey the most impressive manner imaginable, Guest winning a record Columnist eight gold medals in the 2008 Beijing Olympics and returning home as a national hero. A few weeks ago, howev­er, the star swimmer once again found himself under scrutiny after a photo­graph surfaced showing him using a bong at a party in South Carolina. This time, Phelps did not escape unscathed. USA Swimming issued him a three­month suspension, the Kellogg Company dropped him as a spokesman, and the Richland County, South Carolina, Sheriffs Department arrested eight indi­viduals who were at the party with Phelps, though the swimmer himself will not face charges. 
Some commentators have been quick to denounce Phelps's behavior, but it's worth taking a step back to consider the situation. Every year, well over 10,000 Americans are killed in alcohol-related accidents, yet Phelps escaped his drunk­en driving conviction with a measly $250 fme, no jail time, and the public's for­giveness. Marijuana, in contrast, is rela­tively harmless, but Phelps has faced widespread scorn for his use of the drug. There is clearly a sort of peculiar logic at work here. Phelps's actions are being judged not on the basis of any objective moral criteria, but rather on an arbitrary standard set by the federal government. Rather than castigate one of our coun­try's greatest athletes for engaging in an activity tried by Barack Obama, George 
W. Bush, Bill Clinton, AI Gore, Sarah Palin, Clarence Thomas, and roughly 70 million other Americans, we should ask ourselves why we continue to harass peaceful citizens for making the private and harmless decision to smoke pot. 
The so-called "war on drugs" is one of the most misguided and pernicious endeavors ever undertaken by the feder­al government. For decades, the U.S. has devoted billions of dollars to a futile and destructive effort to eliminate the pro­duction, sale, and use of a variety of sub­stances which it deems insalubrious. While failing to fulfill its stated objec­tives, the war on drugs has brought about the deaths of innocent Americans, drained the U.S. treasury, eroded Constitutional checks on the federal gov­ernment's powers, blocked patients' access to valuable medical treatments, catalyzed the militarization of domestic police forces, and created a black mar­ket that keeps violent criminals in busi­ness. 

Serious discussion of our nation's drug laws remains all too rare, but in recent years, notable thinkers from across the political spectrum have begun to acknowledge the failure of the drug war. The late conservative icon William F. Buckley and his magazine, National Review, were consistent supporters of drug legalization, and even President Obama has indicated that he supports some reform of drug laws, though he has yet to end the federal government's unconstitutional raids on medical mari­juana dispensaries authorized by state laws. The notion that drug use is a major source of crime and social decay in the United States has been thoroughly dis­credited. A candid review of the history of drug use in this country reveals that even so-called "hard drugs" were once legal and produced few ill social effects. Marijuana, in particular, is not addictive and has not been shown to cause any serious health problems. 
Drug prohibition has created a black market, resulting in the emergence of organized crime and violence. In their efforts to combat drug use and distribu­tion, local police have adopted increas­ingly deadly equipment and tactics, all too frequently leading to the deaths of innocent bystanders and persons wrong­ly targeted in drug raids. Furthermore, the federal war on drugs blatantly vio­lates the U.S. Constitution, which grants the federal government no authority to prosecute the use and intrastate sale of drugs. The Department of Justice has gone so far as to attempt to wholly over­ride state laws, refusing to allow states to legalize the use of marijuana formed­ical purposes. As Justice Clarence Thomas warned in his dissenting opinion in Gonzales v. Raich, the federal govern­ment's prosecution of the war on drugs threatens to dissolve the Constitution's most basic checks on federal power. 
The most basic problem with drug pro­hibition, though, is that it represents an attempt to suppress peaceful, harmless behavior through the coercive apparatus of the state. Government exists to protect our individual rights, not to protect us from ourselves or to tell us how to run our lives. You may find marijuana use distasteful, but you have no right to dic­tate to your neighbor what he may do within the confines of his home. Alcohol use frequently leads to deadly traffic accidents, addiction, serious health prob­lems, and broken families, yet the state still recognizes our fundamental right to consume alcohol in a responsible man­ner, provided that we do not harm others as a result. Why, then, should marijuana, a far less dangerous drug, be illegal? Michael Phelps's predicament serves as a potent reminder of the destructive con­sequences of our nation's senseless drug policies. 
We don't have to sit silently and watch the drug war continue to wreck havoc on the lives of innocent citizens. We should hold President Obama accountable to his promise to end federal raids on medical marijuana dispensaries and ask Congress to begin reforming federal drug laws. And the next time you feel like a bowl of Corn Flakes, remember that the Kellogg Company decided to drag Michael Phelps's name through the mud rather than take a stand against unjust laws. Cheerios might suddenly sound a bit more appetizing. 
Ben Linskey, a sophomore majoring in political science and philosophy, is co-president ofthe College Libertarians. The most powerful drug he has ever used is caffeine. He can be contacted at blinskey@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
Will the men's basketball team make the NCAA tournament? Yes No 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"All love that has not friendship for its base, is like a mansion built upon sand." 
Ella Wheeler Wilcox author 

I 
' 
I 
I ­

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 19, 2009 page 11 
Get ready, get set 
In Brazil Carnaval starts on Saturday, and in New Orleans, the Mardi Gras cele­brations began baGk in January. Here in South Bend most Mardi Gras celebra­tions will simply begin and end this 
Tuesday night.  
OK, sorry if I've underestimated  Kate Barrett  
your party plan­ 
ning; maybe  
you're starting earlier than that,  Faithpoint  
but let's just say  

that in the next five days many people will be taking their pre-Lent preparations quite seriously. Maybe you'll eat up any lingering Valentine's candy that might still be available; you might indulge in a few extra desserts or snacks or whatever you plan to give up for Lent; perhaps you'.ll set the TiVo so you can at least go back later and watch those favorite shows you'll miss as the screen remains dark. 
At least six centuries ago, Mardi Gras, or "Fat Tuesday," probably originated out of practical purpm.es. Christians could not take part in the already prevalent pagan festivals and celebrations that fell during Lent, marking the coming of spring in the vernal equinox, so they sub­stituted a pre-Lenten celebration. Further, the list of food items one could not eat during Lent was extensive, and in a world that did not yet include detailed knowledge of food storage or safety, much less controlled refrigeration, it just didn't make sense to let perishables hang around for six weeks when you couldn't eat them. 
Even the Church participates in this kind of"get it out of your system" feast­ing before Lent begins. This last Sunday before Lent, often called "Alleluia Sunday," gives the alleluia the Mardi Gras clean~out-your-cupboard treatment, fitting in extra alleluias whenever possi­ble throughout the Mass. Singing alleluia then becomes off-limits in liturgies from Ash Wednesday to the Easter Vigil, when it will return with the pomp and celebra­tion of a celebrity on the red carpet. 
Each of these pre-Lenten customs has become a way we take a deep breath before we dive in to the austerity and solemnity of Lent. Much like dipping your toe in the cold water before taking the actual jump, we seem to need a "Get ready, get set, go!" moment before Ash Wednesday signals the beginning of the season. 

Why? Well, on the one hand, Lent can 
feel like it lasts forever. If, right from the 
beginning of Lent, we're wishing for it to 
be over so that we can get back to our chocolate or our Starbucks, we've cer­
tainly missed the point. When we 
abstain from certain foods, or "give 
something up," we've connected to an 
ancient and venerable custom dating 
back as many as 1700 years, but the pur­
pose behind the sacrifice has never been 
to-give something up just to prove that 
we can manage it for forty short days. 
And 40 days is nothing, really. In the grand scheme of things, even over the scope of your life, or of 2009, 40 days is the blink of an eye. Why not look at it in a new way: as a moment to begin? As just enough time to get something start­ed? In the earliest centuries of the Church, only adults who wanted to become Christian participated in the sea­son of Lent as their final preparation for baptism at the Easter Vigil. Later, already-baptized Christians joined in, year after year, as a sign of recognition that the path toward holiness is a life­long adventure, and sometimes a strug­gle. That's quite different than a finite, 40-day endurance test, the conclusion of which we anxiously await so that we can say, "Whew! That's over!" If we're truly ready to dive in to the season, each Lent could become a step along the road to holiness, to a life for each of us that looks more and more like the life Jesus desires for you and for me. 
It's time to get into the spirit of Lent. Take a deep breath and make your preparations. Clean out the cupboards of your heart and mind and ask God, who is "gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love," to guide you through these 40 wonderful days of opportunity, days in which through prayer and self-discipline and offering you'll be ready for the new life awaiting at Easter. You just might find yourself saying, "Whew! That was a great start!" 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett. Kate Barrett is the director ofthe Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A clear· tni.sunderstanding 

It is my sincerest hope that every Philosophy professor on campus keep a copy of Steven D€Laurentis' Feb. 18th letter "A Chri5tian Acceptance." It will certainly provide them several slides ifthey ever desire to teach logi­cal fallacies. He invokes the same tired, irrelevant arguments used by rabble-rousing, anti-Catholic peda­gogues without the energy or evidence to muster a substantial response. 
He begins with a one-two ad­hominem-strawman argument­Brad Duffy's irrelevant mistake in identifying the "Queer Film Festival" as a "play" -which somehow demon­strates that Brad D Jffy intended to "attack the imminent Vagina Monologues" instead, as if this had anything to do with the actual content of Brad Duffy's lettE•r. It doesn't. 
He then gives us a convenient laun­dry list of the dark rimes in the Church's history, even recently, and somehow he leaps from the idea that members of the Ca1holic Church ­even Popes -have committed grave sins, to the idea that somehow the Church's teachings aren't valid, or aren't infallible. Inf:illibility and Impeccability are two completely dif­ferent things-no •:>ne has ever said the Pope won't sin. Christ didn't prom­ise us a perfect Church with a hierar­chy of haloed men. Instead, he made our first Pope Peter. a man who denied Him three times and cut off a soldier's ear in anger. It would be foolish and absurd to claim that the Church has never acted unjustly, to whitewash the mistakes of the men who claim to act on Her behalf. But 1he actions of the Church's members -Mr. DeLaurentis',_mine. B16's-are not the same thing as tl1e teachings of the Magisterium. These teachings cannot be dismissed so easily. He then tells us that Christ accepted prostitutes -and by extension, all sinners -lovingly. But this is a fallacy of composition ­accepting a prostitute isn't the same as accepting prostitution. Those sinners came to Christ repentant, not flaunting their sin. He accepted a prostitute who washed His feet with her tears (Luke 
7:38) not who attempted to turn a trick. on him. 
He completely decontextualizes Deut. 25:11-12 as an example of an unchristian passage, just before telling us that condenmations of homosexual­ity must be taken in context, and that the Gospels don't record Christ con­demning homosexuality. But the Gospels don't record a lot of things­"Jesus did many other things as well. If every one of them were written down, I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written." (John 21:25) which is precisely why the Pauline epistles are so important. The Church exists precisely to provide the sort of contemporary context Mr. DeLaurentis calls for, the context he demands.But more importantly, ifhe claims to be Catholic or even Christian but doesn't believe "sacred Scripture" is a reliable guide, then what remains? 
In closing, we don't need to "balance the Catholic nature of this institution" with anything. Catholic is a designation from which everything else should flow, not one against which everything else must balance. 
Tommy Maranges freshman St. Edward's Hall Feb. 18 


Catholic teachings 
Brad Duffy claims that "there is nothing 'anti-gay' about Notre Dame." Really? Last spring approximately 3,000 students, fac­ulty and staff signed a petition to include "sexual orientation" in Notre Dame's Non­Discrimination clause. 
Apparently this outpouring of support from almost half the student body did not merit an official resptmse. Year after year Notre Dame rejects the Gay-Straight Alliance's application for club recognition, further isolating gay and lesbian students from the Notre Dame community. The active elimination of the Film Festival is just one of the many indications of the uni­versity's attitude toward members of its own family. · 
Notre Dame's treatment of gay and les­bian students is embarrassing for a uni­versity that prides itself on its Catholic character and family atmosphere. We regret that Brad Duffy so deeply misunder­stands the nature of Catholic teachings on homosexuality. 
The Catholic Church does not condemn gays. Catholic teaching characterizes homosexual acts as "disordered," just as it condemns all sexual acts outside of mar­riage. Regarding treatment of gays, the Catechism of the Catholic Church tells us that they "must be accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity," and that "every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided" (2358). 
Brad Duffy states that "Notre Dame can­not allow its mission to be shaped by those determined to demoralize it." We don't want to demoralize Notre Dame's mission. We want to ensure that it lives up to its mission of being a university that espouses Catholic beliefs, which include the accept­ance and respect of gay/lesbian students. 
This university is our home too, and it saddens us that it continually alienates part of its community that only asks for respect and support. Therefore, while you might consider our views "radical," we do not. Neither do 3,000 students who recog­nize that there are areas in which Notre Dame needs to be improved. It is time for Notre Dame to live up to the Catholic teachings so central to our University's identity. 
Bridget Flores sophomore Welsh Family Hall Mary Dewey sophomore Pangborn Hall Jackie Emmanuel freshman Walsh Hall Feb. 18 

That's bologna 
Dear John Traub, We'd like to thank you for raising awareness about the trag­ic injustice that's occurring on Notre Dame's campus. We appreciate your will­ingness to take a stand for $5 footlongs. 
The speed at which you organized 1,549 students to support your cause is truly an accomplishment. Students haven't been shaken from their apathy like this since Recker's stopped making cheese fries. 
As front page Observer news, this can finally take the spotlight away from trivial issues like recycling and sexual assault and focus it where it belongs: the price of a 12-inch meatball sub. Thanks for ensur­ing patrons get to keep the $1.99 in Flexpoihts that is rightfully theirs. With the total savings, you could pay the work­ers who made your sandwich a living wage! 
We wish you success in rescuing Mr. Hinckley from the dreaded dining hall ­
that certainly deserves more efforts than 
rescuing South Bend's homeless shelters 
from closing due to the economic crisis. 
We understand; NDH's lemon caper chick­
en can be as bitter as the South Bend 
winter. Sustainability, discrimination 
based on sexual orientation, violence in 
the Congo -save those issues for the 
vegans who wear tye-dye, because you, Mr. Traub, have found an issue with 
which the burger-eating, madras-wearing 
domer can identify.... We're glad that 
Notre Dame students finally feel passion­
ately about an issue. But the fact that the 
issue happens to be sandwiches? That's 
bologna. Get it? 
Michelle Byrne Lauren Cummings seniors off campus Feb. 17 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, February 19, 2009 


MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

By DECLAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Writer 
On Saturday, standup come­dian Christian Finnegan will be performing at Legends at 10 p.m. A regular on VH1's "Best Week Ever" and the "I Love the ... " series, Finnegan is most famous for being "Chad," the 
s o I e 
Christian

Caucasian roommate in Finnegan the Real at Legends
W o r I d 
Saturday

sketch on "Chappelle's IOp.m. Show." He is Admission: also a regu­
Free

lar on 
Comedy Central's standup comedian shows like "Premium Blend" and he has had his own half an hour special on Comedy Central Presents. 
Comedy Cen.tral also spon­sored Finnegan's national col­lege tour in the first half of 2007. The "Two for Flinching Tour" was done to support his 2006 comedy CD of the same name. Even at the age of 35, Finnegan is still viewed as an up-and-comer in the comedy world and definitely a name to watch in the future. 
Finnegan's material is rela­tively clean for a comedian these days (not overtly sexual or graphic, but not PG-13 either) and it relies mostly on observational humor, a.k.a.... girlfriend jokes, quirks of cer­tain areas, childhood memo­ries, etc. His CD is very enter­taining -a welcome relief from the Dane Cook imitator albums that have been flood­ing the market -and he excels as a live performer. 
His delivery does not pretend to be anything special, but his facial expressions and onstage demeanor greatly enhance the punch lines to his less funny material. 
The best way to describe Finnegan is that he's just like­able and his endearing man­ner makes him an audience favorite, which helps even his weaker jokes to still go over well. 
Admission to Finnegan's per­formance is free with a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student ID. 
Contact Dedan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu 
By J.J. REES 
Scene Writer 
The city of Mazatlan, Mexico lies 1,700 miles southwest of Notre Dame. Much closer is Mazatlan Authentic Mexican Restaurant; located just past Bethel College -an easy four-mile, 10-minute drive on McKinley. Along with La Esperanza, the local Hacienda chain and the Colorado­based chain Chipotle, Mazatlan is one of the few Mexican restaurants around South Bend, and it makes a stand as one of the area's finest. 
Mazatlan's menu is astonishingly simple to comprehend, even to the staunchest Hispanophobe. 1¥ glossary of terms in the menu simply explains foods like enchiladas and burritos. And with Philly Cheese Steak-inspired dishes, almost anyone is sure to find something that appeal~ to them. 
The fresh warm chips and home­made red salsa are brought to the table immediately. This excellent combination is a good start as an appetizer, but the quick eater might be surprised at how spicy the salsa is. That being said, diners with a taste 

for twang will enjoy the unlimited teaser. 
Something barely mentioned on the menu yet completely worth trying is the horchata. This sweetened rice­based beverage has the appearance of milk and has the slightly creamy cooling qualities of milk, especially after the salsa. But the similarities end there. Mazatlan 's horchata, ordered by the pitcher, has a taste of hazelnut and cinnamon that will surely be unique to most American-bred palates. Mazatlan also offers drink specials on well­liked margaritas and tequilas. 
Almost all appetizers are miniature versions of entrees, but this can help diners get a broader experience out of their visit. The quesadillas are almost big enough for a light meal. Although they make marvelous left­overs, it would be hard not to finish these juicy chicken numbers. Pairing 
Mazatlan offers attractive " 
Mexican food. Asfor the "authentic" in the title, they won't be fooling any Mexicans, but the food is certainly a good substitute for Michiana. 
Mazatlan 
507 E. McKinley Ave. (574-259-4430) 
Hours: 11-10:30 Mon.-Fri., 12-10:30 Sat., 12-9 Sun. Prices: Apps. $2-$8, Entrees $5-$10 10 Words or Less: Mexican with Midwestern manner, hot food seNed quickly. 

these with the red salsa can add a kick to the tender cheesy fla­vor of the quesadillas. 
When the entrees come, most diners will be ready to try some­thing a bit new. The enchiladas are done well, but their bland­ness is somewhat of a let down after the spiciness of the chips and salsa and the savoriness of the chicken quesadillas. The pork carnitas, paired excellently with rice, are surpris-
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

ingly tender -enough to shred with a fork -and have a remarkable hint of smoked flavor. For those not willing to change it up, the quesadillas, espe­cially the cheesy 12-inch Larissa's Quesadilla, are solid choices. All 
meals are gener­ously portioned, and one of the best parts of Mazatlan is the leftovers. 
To the first-time diners, the horcha­ta is a must. Mazatlan's many daily lunch and din­ner offer enough variety for any level diner to try some­thing at least a lit­tle bit new. With 

lunch specials under $5 and "combi­nation dinners" under $7, Mazatlan won't stretch many wallets. Appealingly non-American, the restaurant is absolutely a good invest­ment for those looking to branch out from dining hall taquitos and lobster­ish quesadillas. 
Mazatlan offers attractive Mexican food. As for the "authentic" in the title, they won't be fooling any Mexicans, but the food is certainly a good alternative for Michiana. Thinking back on it, some of the restaurant's best offerings were based on cheese, a Midwestern staple. Of course, the pleasant staff doesn't speak with Hispanic/Minnesotan fusion accents, but the faded green and orange walls do certainly convey a warming blandness native to the Midwest. Even the style of decor, albeit Mexican-inspired, has a flair of your friend from Wisconsin's mom's house. Mazatlan accepts its Midwesternness and seems even to embrace it to their advantage. 
Contact J.J. Rees at jrees@nd.edu 
. '~ 


~-~--~~----------~-----­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, February 19, 2009 
page 13 
============================================================================ 

Karen . 'The Boy in the mas' {2008), all -6:30 p.m., Browning Cinema 
Not many people can claim they've performed in As part of the "New Perspectives in llolocaust -. the United States, Europe, Japan and Central:-Films" theme for this weekend's movies in the America, but one woman who is known for her -Browning Cinema, "The Boy in the Striped Pajama<>" · 
-. sensational mezzo-soprano voice can attribute all ·: _: tell<> the tale of two young children who become best _those accomplishments to her name. Karen Lykes, -.-friend<> through the barbed wim fence of a concen-· ·the associate professor of voice at the University of -. tration camp. Bruno is the son of a wealthy German Cincinnati, will make a visit to Notre Dame's cam-;r"commandant, while Shmuel is a Jewish child forced pus this evening for a special performance lasting: :".to work for the Nazi regime. Unbeknownst to the just under an hour and a half. Students of this, --.• children, Shmuel's home is the extermination camp notable professor and performer have been nomP • Auschwitz. Though Bruno is forbidden from ventur­.nated for the Grammy Award for Best Oassical· ·; ing to the "farm" behind his house, he secretly visits Vocal Performance and the Tony Award for,: --the boy who becomes his one true friend. These two 
-Outstanding Actor and Actress in a Musical. Don't--·boys' fates become intertwined when, upon learning miss the opportunity to let her voice tickle your . that he'll be moving away, Bruno sneaks over to visit -senses as she takes you on an epic journey from the·_~-· Shmuel one last time, an event that quickly turns Baroque period to contemporary masterpieces. :t. tragic as the cruelty of the Nazi regime is revealed. 
"'li~;¥ ·•~· ~·•• "\. • '.., ~:'~~--_..:::;t ,F:__ .:: • ""':-t.......~. '> ,• -:t.:" <., ~ .,
•• ..,,w'f: •-¥ 

. -·:.. ....-~--~~~---~~--:~-~-;1.,, ~';~---~.-.:,~~= ...._<t-.. ~,. ;; -~-~~.: .··.} =·., •. > : ..<·' ,.y-.r.:...-._ • < _·· ' , .. 
Comedy Hypnotist Daniel James, 9 p.m., '":'One Day You Will Understand' (2007), 3 
Washington Hall ·: p.m., Browning Cinema 
Having been a hypnotist for almost 30 _.; Another fihn that falls in line with the Holocaust 
years, Daniel James knows a thing or two .··theme this weekend, "One Day You Will 
about the business. He's performed at over>., Understand" is a tale set in 1987 during the trial_ 
400 schools and universities, multiple .·'~of Lyon's Gestapo head Klaus Barbie. While the 
nightclubs and on numerous cruise ships. :'':trial takes place, a French man grows more and 
His shows have been heralded as "hilari-',c,,more intrigued and tries to piece together his 
ous" and "incredible," and are sure to no(-family's history and involvement in World War II. 
only stun audiences, but also keep themi_i_'His mother suspiciously shies away from provid-· 
entertained as they roar with laughter.;·' ing him with details so he must resort to shuffling 
Known for breaking activity attendance -··through photographs, letters and memorabilia 
records at the schools he goes to, his show, ·;and documents left behind by his father. He is 
is sure to be a sellout. Make sure to pile in· -quick to make judgments about his family's 
early before Washington Hall fills up and~,--involvement, but eventually learns that things .you miss this free chance to witness the;-_< aren't always as they seem. 
extraordinary hypnotic talent of Daniel·:·.~-----------------­
James. \_;~ontact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
s~-r. \ s[J tsJ. 
Couscous Wrap Dessert Waffle in. By MICHELLE FORDICE This wrap was inspired by This is take on a waffle is Assistam Scene Editor one I had at a cafe. Using certainly indulgent and is Quick Tip 
couscous as a filling puts a probably best shared among When you're going for 
Happy Thursday everyone. great twist on the wrap idea. a group of friends. Find quick, sometimes it's best to Today the Dining Hall Dish I added black olives, spinach some buddies and load it up just go simple. And there is off~rs an entree and a and feta cheese, but you can with some sweet delicious­nothing wrong with break­dessert for your enjoyment use the couscous base for ness. Thanks to Kristen fast for dinner. Make your­(and of course a quick tip). just about anything. Just Drahos for creating this self some toast, but use a Hopefully it will fuel you keep it fresh. dessert. condiment you've ignored for through one more week as 1. Fill a bowl with cous­1. Make yourself a good awhile, whether it's cream we draw closer to midterms. cous (If there is no couscous, waffle. cheese, apple butter, peanut Can you believe it? The brown rice makes a good 2. Move quickly (you want butter or honey. Or, if you're semester moves fast. It will substitute.) to keep the waffle a little tired of toast, go for a bagel move even faster if you're 2. Add black olives, warm) and top with every or an English muffin. Have eating well and keeping your spinach and feta cheese. kind of ice cream available some fruit on the side (or body and your taste buds 3. Squirt lemon onto the in the dining hall (or at least even put it on top). happy. Keep thinking up new couscous and mix. those you like). Don't forget ways to put a twist on the 4. Pour onto a tortilla and to search both sides. Have your own dining hall dining halls' offerings. wrap it up. 3. Add your favorite top­recipe? We would love to 
5. Grill in the panini maker pings: sprinkles, whipped feature it! E-mail This week's recipes: until it is nice and brown. cream, nuts and syrup. Dig mfordice@nd. edu. 
------------------------~--~--­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 19, 2009 
NBA 

Hornets rout Magic behind Paul's double-double 
Kidd, Wright lead Mavericks to victory over Nets nearly a year after being traded from New Jersey to Dallas 
included six points from Paul, that Paul's advantage over the 
Associated Press 
the last on a soft jumper set up likes of Anthony Johnson and 
NEW ORLEANS -Chris Paul by a weaving dribble across the Tyron Lue would more than had 36 points and 10 assists, lane. compensate. and the New Orleans Hornets Butler added a pair of 3s later New Orleans raced to a 17-6 handed the Orlando Magic their in the quarter and Paul another lead, with Paul scoring 12 of worst loss of the season, 117-85 jumper as New Orleans built its those points and assisting on on Wednesday night. lead back up to 86-62 heading Stojakovic's transition jumper. 
Rasual Butler added 15 into the final period. New Late in the first quarter, Paul points, and David West had 14 Orleans' lead only grew from had 16 points, three assists and for the Hornets, who've won there as all 12 Hornets who four rebounds, compared to 14 their first two games following dressed ended up with at least points, four assists and three the All-Star break. two points. rebounds for the entire Orlando 
Rashard Lewis had 17 points, Reserves Melvin Ely and team. At that point, New and J.J. Redick 14 for Orlando, Devin Brown each finished with Orleans had made 13 of its first which shot poorly from the field 11 points, Peja Stojakovic had 17 shots and led 33-14. and free-throw line. Dwight 10 and the Hornets shot 58 per­Other than Jloward, who had Howard had 12 points and was cent ( 46-of-79). 10 points in the opening quar­a non-factor for most of the last After Howard had 44 points, ter -six on free throws -'­three quarters, when he scored 19 rebounds and eight blocks a Orlando had trouble making only two points. night earlier, the big worry for shots. From late in the first 

Orlando's previous worst loss New Orleans was what quarter until several minutes was by 19 points to Boston on Orlando's superstar center into the second, Orlando was Dec. 1. Having won in overtime would do against Hilton mired in a 1-of-17 shooting against Charlotte on Tuesday Armstrong, Sean Marks and Ely, slump, dropping the Magic to 5­night, the Magic looked flat in who'd been reserves before of-25 (20 percent) overall to New Orleans, shooting 37 per­Tyson Chandler injured his left that point. cent (26-of-70) and trailing by ankle in January. The 7-foot-1 New Orleans' lead got as big double digits most of the game. Chandler, the Hornets best inte­as 41-21 before the first of hesitation dribble as he drove to ahead jumper by Josh Howard 
New Orleans outscored rior defender and rebounder, Redick's three 3's in the period. the hoop. started a 15-1 spurt that turned Orlando 44-18 in the paint and was then was traded to Orlando made five of six 3-point Paul ended up with 26 points this game into a rout. The Mavs outrebounded the Magic 46-35. Oklahoma City on Tuesday in a attempts in the latter half of the by halftime, at which point New ended up scoring 40 points in 
Orlando was as close as 58-50 deal that ended up being period, but could not reduce its Orleans led 56-43. the third quarter, their most in after Hedo Turkoglu's 3 early in rescinded Wednesday night deficit much because of Paul's any quarter all season. the third quarter, but the because he failed a physical. continued onslaught, which Dallas 113, New Jersey 98 Thursday is the first anniver­Hornets seemed unfazed. Although Howard was solid included a 3 of his own and a Jason Kidd and Antoine sary of the swap that sent Kidd Minutes later, West's driving early on, those worries began to fast break layup that he started Wright celebrated the first and Wright to Dallas for Harris, scoop ignited an 8-0 run that fade when it became apparent with a steal and ended with anniversary of their trade from Trenton Hassell and others. 
the New Jersey Nets a day early Harris scored 41 points in a Wednesday night, leading the 24-point victory over the Mavs Dallas Mavericks to victory over earlier this season and was only their former team. a few days removed from his 
Kidd opened the game with first All-Star appearance, but he three early 3-pointers and didn't have the same zing this scored 23 points, one shy of his time. lie went more than 20 season high. lie also had 10 minutes before scoring and fin­assists and a quick-handed steal ished with 18 points on 5-of-18 against Devin Harris -the shooting. Hassell started but youngster he was dealt for -didn't score in 20 minutes, miss­during the game-breaking third ing his only shot. quarter Vince Carter started 6-of-8, 
Wright was a big reason for but missed his last 10 shots, fail­that surge, hitting thren 3-point­ing to score in the second half. ers and scoring 13 of his 20 He finished with 15 points. points in the period. Brook Lopez had 16 points and 
The Mavericks improved to 7-Jarvis Hayes scored 15 on 6-of-6 2 since Kidd was put in charge shooting. Keyon Dooling scored of the offense. This one was 14. especially impressive as four The game opened with the starters cracked 20 points, and Nets inviting Kidd to shoot. On all five were in double figures. one play, Carter started chasing Josh Howard had 24 points and a pass into the corner, realized 10 rebounds, Dirk Nowitzki had it was Kidd, then shook his head 23 points and nine rebounds, and went back into the lane. and Erick Dampier scored 10. Kidd swished a 3-pointer, then 
New Jersey lost its fourth another soon after. He didn't straight, all by at least 15 have a point in the second quar­points. ter, but Nowitzki scored 16 in 
Playing for the first time since the period, after being shut out a tough loss to Boston six days in the first. ago, Dallas trailed 55-52 at half­Kidd and Howard each scored time. A few minutes later, a go-11 points in the third quarter. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Ring of 4 keys found in the melting snow piled up near Main Circle. 
Contact Michael at 574-309-5854. 
FoR SALE 
609 N. Ironwood-$149,900­OPEN HOUSE (February 22, Sunday 1-4PM). Near Notre Dame, Great for Students and visiting pro­fessors! Solid brick/stone ranch, 3bdrms, 1.5 baths and 1 ,844SF. For more info. pis. call Jan Lazzara (Cressy & Everett) 574-651-1665. 
FoR RENT. 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
613 Lafayette Blvd, 6-bdrm & 2­bdrm houses. $350/person. Call 574-876-6333. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETTE TOWNHOUSES. 
$350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTER­
NET 
NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­3537. 

1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call 574­232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
House for rent. Very clean 3/4 br, 
1.5 bath, 2 living rooms and big backyard. Avail 09-10 school year. Affordable and very close to cam­pus. Call AJ@(440)463-5633. 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/10. CES Property Management 574-968­0112 CESOM.info 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

We have many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­tance-for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of 
Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assaulti 
Rejected Observer questions of the day: 
Both of my sisters are going to New Orleans for Mardi Gras this week­end. I will be here for JPW as a sophomore-Is that fair? 
On a scale of 1-10, how much do you miss Rob Kurz? 
Will the Oceanic Six succeed in get­ting Locke's body back to the Island? 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 19, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 
team ··'i'~'ihiiT<ii<K:··''-'' 

1 Connecticut (66) 
2 Oklahoma (4) 
3 North Carolina (2) 
4 Pittsburgh 
5 Memphis 
6 Michigan State 
7 louisville 
8 Wake forest 9 Duke 10 Marquette 
11 Missouri 
12 Villanova 13 Clemson 14 Arizona Slate 15 Kansas 16 Xavier 17 Gonzaga 
18 Illinois 19 Purdue 20 UCLA w .. 21 Butler 22 Washington 23 LSU 24 Syracuse 25 Dayton 

Nlkejlnsidl:e\)1~:;=:: Lacrosse• 
1 Virginia (12) 2 Syracuse (2) 3 Maryland 4 JohltS Hopkins 5 North carolina 6 Cornell 7 Duke 8 Georoeto1011n 9 10 11 12 
around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
No. 9 Duke at St. John's 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
San Antonio at Detroit 
8:00p.m., TNT 


Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Houston Rockets star Tracy McGrady will have surgery on his left knee and miss the rest of the season. 
The star forward said on his Web site Wednesday that the pain has been persistent and he will have microfrac­ture surgery. He's confident he'll return next season. 
McGrady is Houston's third-leading scorer. He had arthroscopic surgery in May and has missed 18 games this season because of his sore knee. He also missed one game with a sprained ankle. He said before the All-Star break he wanted to consult with doctors before deciding on the best course of treatment on his knee. 

ESPN.com first reported that McGrady was out for the season after the Rockets beat the Nets on Tuesday night. 
Rockets spokesman Nelson Luis said McGrady met with a doctor in New York on Tuesday and had another out-of-state doctor's appointment scheduled Wednesday. McGrady said he would have the surgery "immediately." 
"It has been extremely frustrating dealing with the knee injury this season," McGrady said. "It's been tough on me both physically and mentally and while we've come to this conclu-
IN BRIEF Patriots' Brady remains on 
schedule for knee rehab 
BOSTON -New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady says his recovery from knee surgery remains on schedule and he doesn't see any reason he won't be ready for the 2009 opener. 
But Brady stopped short of predict­ing when exactly he'll return to the field. "''m feeling great. I'm feeling really good. Everything is progressing just as I expected," said Brady told reporters Wednesday at a charity event. 
"It's just a matter of getting to that time," Brady said. "I wish it was right around the corner. I wish it was here now. It's not, but the competitor in me has to sit back and wait and continue to work and try to get stronger." 
Brady spoke during a visit to the Boys and Girls Club in Allston to pro­vide 1,000 laptop computers as part of his work with the Patriots Charitable Foundation and the One Laptop Per Child program. 

sion after much delibera­tion, we truly feel this is best for both me and the Rockets in the long term." 
Houston coach Rick Adelman lashed out at McGrady after practice on Wednesday for not inform­ing the team of his inten­tions. Adelman. said he only . learned that McGrady was out for the season when he read it in a newspaper in the morning. 
"There should be a proto­col, there should be a proce­dure where we have a chance to sit down and talk about the situation and not be announced in the press," Adelman said. "I don't know why that happened, why he did that. Certainly, that is not the way things should be handled." 
Some of the Rockets said they also found out through the media, but Ron Artest said the news came as no surprise. 
"Everybody pretty much knew he was going through some tough times right now in his career," said Artest, who's started the last two games in McGrady's place. "I knew it was pretty severe for him not to be able to practice and play." 
The Rockets have won their last two games without McGrady and 13 of.19 with­out him this season. Houston is 33-21 overall this season and in fifth place in the Western Conference. 

Carolina's Peppers eyeing
possible trade to Dallas 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Julius Peppers still wants out of Carolina, but he'll only agree to be traded to four teams, further complicating the Panthers' efforts to get compensation for the four­time Pro Bowl defensive end. 
On the eve of the deadline to place the franchise tag on Peppers, a pe:r;son close to the player said Wednesday that the impending free agent wants to play for Dallas or three other unnamed teams, two of them in the NFC. 
The person, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity because the list wasn't supposed to be made pub­lic, said Peppers wouldn't agree on a trade to any other team, which would limit the Panthers since Peppers would likely have to sign a new contract with that new team before a trade could be exe­cuted. 
Red Sox owner renews 
call for MLB salary cap 
FORT MYERS, Fla. -Boston 
Red Sox owner John Henry 
renewed his call for a salary cap 
on Wednesday after an offseason 
in which the New York Yankees 
added three hee agents for 
$423.5 million. 
Or, as Red Sox president Larry 
Lucchino said, "the Yankees have 
spent like the U.S. Congress." 
And while Boston's chief rival 
opens a new $1.5 billion Yankee 
Stadium on April 3, Lucchino said 
Fenway Park, built in 1912, 
should be around for another 50 
years. 
More immediately, the Red Sox 
owners are troubled by the wide 
disparity in team payrolls that 
they say limits competitive bal­
ance in baseball -even though ·Boston had the second-highest payroll at the end of last season. A salary cap, Lucchino said, is "as inevitable as tomorrow." 

Thursday, February 19, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
A 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Penn State gets ugly vvin at Illinois 
throws -marking the first stretch, Penn State made 

Associated Press 
time a team didn't have an just three of its 26 shots. 

CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -Talor attempt in a game at the Ultimately, the Nittany Battle made four free 46-year-old Assembly Hall. Lions closed with a 14-2 throws in the final 16 sec­The teams combined for run, erasing the 31-24 lead onds to lead Penn State to the lowest-scoring game in Illinois opened up with an ugly 38-33 win over No. NCAA Division I since Dec. 6:17 left. 18 Illinois on Wednesday 14, 2005, when Monmouth Battle, the only player the night. beat Princeton 41-21. score in double figures, 
Battle finished with 11 Neither team scored until had six points during ·that points for the Nittany Lions Illinois forward Mike Davis' run. (19-8, 8-6 Big Ten). who jumper more than 4 min­Illinois used a 13-4 run committed 13 turnovers utes into the game. that spanned 11 minutes and made just 28 percent About 10 minutes in, both around halftime to take a of their shots. teams were still in single 19-17 lead about 3 minutes 
The Illini (21-6, 9-5) were digits while shooting a into the second half. The no better, shooting 30 per­combined 5-for-26 from the run was fueled, as much as cent (15-for-50) and com­field. Shots fell short, anything, by Penn State's mitting 15 turnovers. sailed long and found eight turnovers during that Chester Frazier and Trent enough rim to roll and stretch. Meacham had seven points bounce harmlessly -and The Illini opened the gap each to lead Illinois, which frustratingly -away. to 29-20 with just over 10 did not shoot any free During one 20-minute minutes left. 
FREEBIES !SUBS & CLUBS ONLY) 
llniou. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo, sliced cucumber. Dijen mustart oil & vinegar, and cregana. 

MLB 
Griffey set to return to Seattle 
Associated Press 
PEORIA, Ariz. -Ken Griffey Jr. has decided to return to the Seattle Mariners. 
The Mariners announced the move Wednesday night. The 39-year-old star's con­tract is for one year and believed to be worth $2 mil­lion in base salary, plus incentives. 
Earlier in the day, a person with knowledge of the negoti­ations told The Associated Press that an apparent agreement with the Atlanta Braves had fallen through. The person spoke on condi­tion of anonymity because the Mariners had yet to announce the deal. 
Griffey is fifth on baseball's career home run list with 611. 
Atlanta appeared to be Griffey's choice on Tuesday for the same reason the for­mer Mariners star left Seattle in 2000: geography. The Braves' spring training camp is about a 20-minute drive from the Griffey family home in Orlando, Fla., and Atlanta is about an hour away by plane. 
Griffey asked for a trade from the Mariners in 1999 to be closer to home. He eventu­ally got one just before the 2000 season, to Cincinnati. 
But after conflicting reports about where the aging star would settle, Griffey ulti­mately chose to follow through on his proclamation two years ago when he came to Seattle while playing with the Reds -that he wanted to finish his career as a Mariner. 
The Mariners have a job as designated hitter and per­haps in left field waiting for him for 2009. The Braves were offering a possible pla­toon in the outfield -plus that cherished proximity to home. 
Seattle had been trying to add a power hitter, and specifically a designated hit­ter, for months. They were believed to be pursuing Bobby Abreu and Adam Dunn until last week, when Abreu signed with the Los Angeles Angels and Dunn agreed to a deal with the Washington Nationals. Seattle also tal ked to the agent for free agent Garret Anderson. 
The Mariners prefer a left­handed bat because the dimensions of pitcher-friend­ly Safeco Field are shortest in right field. 
The configuration fits the left-handed Griffey so well. the Mariners presented him with a framed photo of their stadium before a Hods­Mariners game in 2007, with the words "The House that Griffey Built" across the top. Griffey played just half a sea­son in it before getting the trade he demanded to Cincinnati in 2000. 
That was months after he rejected Seattle's offer for $148 million over eight years. 
Yet the fans in Seattle still love "Junior." who would give an instant jolt to what appears to be a long rebuild­ing season. 
He made his first opening day start with the Mariners. as a 19-year-old in 1989. He stayed 10 more years before the trade to Cincinnati. He has been hampered by 
mJuries since and had arthroscopic knee surgery
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK following the 2008 season, 1290 E.IR£lANO 138 S.MICHICAN 5.4570 H. IRONWOOD DR. 5343 N. MAIN ST. the last half of which he 
574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.277.8500 574.968.4600 spent with the White Sox. 
He is the Mariners' career

SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
leader in home runs (398). slugging percentage (.569)
"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!"® @ and trails only Edgar Martinez in team history in games played with 1 ,535. 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 19, 2009 
.. 
MLB 

Jeter backs A-Rod 
•
In steroid case 


Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Derek Jeter played it right down the mid­dle with Alex Rodriguez: Didn't like what he did, time to move on. 
A day after Rodriguez tried to explain his use of perform­ance-enhancing drugs, Jeter responded. 
"We're here to support him through it," the Yankees cap­tain said Wednesday. "I don't condone what he did. We don't condone what he did. And Alex doesn't condone what he did. And I think at this point now it's our jobs to try to help him be as comfortable as he can on the field and try to move past this." 
With all the focus on A-Rod, Jeter bristled at those who continue to group all players together. 
"One thing that is irritating and it really upsets me a lot is when you hear everybody say, 'It was the steroid era. Everybody was doing it.' You know, that's not true. Everybody was not doing it," he said. 
"I think it sends the wrong message to fans, to baseball fans; I think it sends the wrong message to kids, saying that everybody was doing it, because that's just not the truth," he said. "I understand there's a lot of people who are big-name players that have come out and allegedly done this and done that, but every­body wasn't doing it." 
Jeter's plea to acknowledge the clean players came after an opening workout in which photographers and cameras tailed behind Rodriguez for two hours at New York's spring training complex. Manager Joe Girardi said A­Rod's talent automatically makes him a focal point. 
"It would be hard to say that to Michael Jordan when he walked int.o the stadium, 'Don't be the center of atten­tion,"' Girardi said. 
A-Rod was the last of 60­plus Yankees to take the field, sprinting from the right-field corner. Some of the 1,600 or so fans gathered under a near­cloudless sky at Steinbrenner Field cheered when they saw No. 13. A few yelled out encouraging words. Not a sin­gle boo or insult was heard. 
Hodriguez reported for spring training on Tuesday and held a 32-minute news conference, his first since Sport Illustrated reported on its Web site Feb. 7 that he was on a list of 104 players who tested positive for steroids during baseball's anonymous 2003 survey. 
Rodriguez had admitted to ESPN on Feb. 9 that he used banned substances while play­ing for Texas from 2001-03, and he expanded on his story during his news conference. He claimed a cousin -whom he would not identify ­repeatedly injected him during those years with a mysterious substance from the Dominican Republic called "bolL" 
Catcher Jorge Posada, seat­ed in the from row Tuesday along with Jeter, Andy Pettitte and Mariano Rivera, felt for Rodriguez when the star third baseman took a 37-second pause before thanking team­mates. 
"He just got emotional. I think everybody in that room knew what he was going through at that point. It's tough to look at your team­mates in the eye, and tell them, you know, 'I'm sorry,"' Posada said. 
Posada left midway through the news conference because he had to take his family to the airport. More than 20 players attended, and most stayed until the end. 
"I think that he'll be good," said Pettitte, who had a simi­lar confessional news confer­ence last year. "I think he'll be able to put it behind him. I know we're all hoping and pulling for it, that's for sure." 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(lnformal!on, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo: discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1·7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at m!affert@nd edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Honoring historically known activist for social change 
Rrchb/sho;; Oscar R'oMero 

February 23, 2009 at 7:00PM LaFortune Montgomery Theater 
Father Robert Pelton will speak and Romero (starring Raul Julia), a full~length film based on the life of Archbishop Romero will be screened. 
Sponsored by Student Affairs, Student Activities, and Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS). 

Thursday, February 19, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Kings trade Mille~ Salmons to Bulls 
Associated Press 
The Chicago Bulls acquired center Brad Miller and John Salmons from the Sacramento Kings on Wednesday for four players, including forwards Drew Gooden and Andres Noeioni. 
Sll,cramento also got Michael Huffin and Cedric Simmons in the deal, but immediately traded Ruffin to the Portland Trail Blazers for forward Ike Diogu and cash. The Kings then waived guard Quincy Douby and veteran Sam Cassell. acquired on Tuesday from Boston, to make room for their new players. 
The Bulls gave up some salary nexibility to acquire Miller. a two-time All-Star who played 105 games with the Bulls early in his career. Although he hasn't played since Jan. 30 because of a hip injury, Miller -who's aver­aging 11.9 points and 8.0 rebounds -showed flashes of his best game earlier in the sea­son. 
Salmons, a versatile swingman and Sacramento's second-lead­ing scorer with 18.3 points, also could be a promiJ.¥>.nt contributor in Chicago. The disappointing Bulls apparently are still com­mitted to chasing a playoff berth despite starting the day seven games below .500. 
"You always hate to lose good guys and good players, and that's difficult. but we're adding two guys that we like a lot." Bulls coach Vinny Del Negro said before the team's game at Milwaukee. "I think we're adding two really good pieces that we're excited about, and hopefully we can get them here soon and get them acclimated as soon as pos­sible." 
The trade clears more than $13 million in salary cap room next season for the Kings, the NBA's worst team. Among the . four players acquired by the Kings. only Nocioni has a con­tract that stretches into next sea­son. ~ 
In the midst of a thorough franchisP upheaval. the Kings didn't hesitate to part with Miller, their longest-tenured player and one of the few links left to Sacramento's run of eight straight playoff berths earlier in the decade. The 32-year-old Miller joined the Kings in 2003 and spent 5lf2 years as their starting center when he wasn't slowed by injuries. 
"''m definitely excited for the opportunity to go home and go to a team that I've already played for," said Miller, an Indiana native. "I have a lot of friends and family back there. The Bulls are right on the verge of getting into the playoffs, and winning is something very i):nportant to me right now." 
Although Miller provides a combination of defensive size and outside shooting ability, the Bulls might get an even bigger lift from Salmons, who's having a quietly outstanding year with 4.2 rebounds and 3.7 assists in addi­tion to his steady scoring. 
The Bulls didn't learn they had lost four teammates until the team bus pullea away from Chicago for the short trip to Milwaukee. While forward Luol Deng seemed dismayed by the trade of Noeioni, his good friend, other Bulls were excited by the move, with Ben Gordon saying it shows the franchise's commit­ment to a playofl' run. 
"I like him a lot," Gordon said. "He's a great passer, has a great feel for the game, and I think he can make it a lot easier for guys." 
Nocidni, the two-time Argentine Olympian, averaged 
10.4 points and 4.2 rebounds for the Bulls this season. He has three years and $21 million left on his deal. 
Sacramento might be interest­ed in re-signing Gooden, a Northern California native who has been pursued by the club several times in recent years. He's averaging 13.1 points and 
8.6 rebounds, but hasn't played since Jan. 19 because of a groin injury. 
Kings interim coach Kenny Natt was excited to land Gooden after they worked together in Cleveland earlier in their careers. 
"We grew as a team, and it was a very similar situation to this," Natt said. "We both know what it's like to struggle. He's a versatile guy at the (power for­ward) spot. He can score in the post, score on the perimeter and pass the ball. He's a legitimate double-double guy." 
The Kings returned from the All-Star break with a home game against Atlanta on Wednesday night. 
Portland moved Diogu, an underachieving power forward, to acquire Huffin, who hasn't played this season while recover­ing from a sprained left ankle and an Achilles' tendon injury. Ruffin practiced with the Bulls last week, however. 
The Blazers also gained a $3 million trade exception to be used within the year. 
Diogu, who joins his fourth NBA team, has barely played since the Blazers acquired him in a trade with Indiana last sum­mer. 

Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 


you lon.~ needs bclp call. Notre Dame 
andassistl.nce aJiailahie atNiJtre Dame: 
Sr. Sut· Dunn, OJ>, Stmlcnl :\!fain. ti::ll-781~1 Ann Fi11h, Student Albirs. fi:-lt-26RS Syl\'ia Dillon. Campus 'linistry, lin1-71 6n John Dillon, Ounpus ~finistry. fi31-71Wl D1·. Su~au Stcihc-Pasalich, Connseliug Or., fi31 -t:iti5 Ann E. Kle\'a, Health Serdn.·s, ti31-ltlH6 
Women':; Care Center: 2:!1-0HW~ Catltolit' (Jmritit's: 2:-ll-atll 

Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 
Magrane Pet Medical Center Welcomes: 
Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre 
· Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Dr. Logue brings a wealth of experience in en1ergency and critical care medicine-care of the sickest pets, to our experienced staff. 
((Caring for your pet is caring for afamily member and Ifeel privileged to work with a great team to care for your pet, whether healthy or ill." 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS . Thursday, February 19, 2009 
NBA 
Telfair scores 30 as T-Wolves top Heat 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Sebastian Telfair's career night wrecked Jermaine O'Neal's first night. 
Telfair had a career-high 30 points and eight assists, Ryan Gomes added 20 points, and the Minnesota Timberwolves spoiled O'Neal's debut in Miami by hitting a season-high 14 3­pointers and beating the Heat 111-104 on Wednesday night. 
Minnesota blew an 11-point lead with 10 minutes remain­ing, but recovered in time largely thanks to Telfair, who hit a 3-pointer with 1:26 left for a four-point lead -and the Timberwolves held on to snap a five-game slide. 
"I had everything going for me out there tonight," Telfair said. "Some nights are like that." 
Dwyane Wade finished with 37 points and 12 assists for Miami. Udonis Haslem added 17 points for the Heat, and O'Neal -who sustained a right eye injury in the third quarter and missed 13 minutes before returning late -had 13 in his first game since being acquired from Toronto last week. 
"I would not have scripted this for my first game," said O'Neal, who still had some blurred vision after the game. 
"Absolutely not." 
Mario Chalmers scored 12 points for Miami, including a 3­pointer with 2:28 left to give Miami a 99-97 lead. 
The Heat wouldn't be on top again. 
Randy Foye took a pass from Telfair and hit a 3 on the next Minnesota trip, Telfair added with another shot from beyond the arc 30 seconds later, and that essentially sealed it for the Timberwolves -who outre­bounded Miami by a staggering 49-24 margin. 
"I don't think we impacted them defensively the entire game," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "They absolutely annihilated us on the back­board." 
O'Neal only had one rebound, and wasn't thrilled with himself about that. 
"I don't care if I'm on only one leg," he said. "I should never grab only one rebound." 
Kevin Love had 16 points and nine rebounds for Minnesota. Foye had 14 points for the Timberwolves, who also got seven points, nine rebounds and nine assists from Mike Miller and 10 rebounds off the bench from Brian Cardinal. 
Minnesota tried to throw the knockout blows -two of them -in the third quarter. 



Thursday, February 19, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Wildcats 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame most recently 
downed previously-undefeat­
ed Michigan State, 6-1, 
Sunday in East Lansing, 
Mich., which Bayliss said had 
been a tough place for the 
Spartans' opponents of late. 
One key for the Irish this 
season has been their doubles 
play. 
"Our doubles has held up pretty well so far," Bayliss said. "For us to make a signif­icant dent on the national scene we will need to lock down our lower positions because I thought our depth .was going to be our strength." 
Notre Dame has eight 
underclassmen -three fresh­
men and five sophomores ­
in its top nine lineup slots. 
which has led to some incon­
sistency. 
"We knew that we were 
throwing them intQ the deep 
end, hoping that they would 
swim, and we have been pret­
ty competitive," Bayliss said. 
"Maturity has been a key and 
the competitive spirit our 
younger guys have displayed 
has been remarkable at 
times. That having been said, 
we need to make some 
improvements in areas where 
the heat of battle has exposed 
a few things we need to do 
better if we expect to keep 
improving." 
It appears the Irish have 
begun that improvement, as 
Notre Dame rides a four-game 
win streak heading into 
today's 4 p.m. match against 
Northwestern. 
The Irish will hit the road 
Saturday for a 12 p.m. start 
at Ohio State, one of the 
nation's top teams. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
half-second slower than Louisville's, but the win­
Day One 
ning Irish time set another continued from page 24 school record. 
"We're off to a pretty said. "But we have to keep good start, but you could this up for seven sessions tell we were a bit nervous in a row." out of the gate," women's 
The women's 800 relay coach Brian Barnes said. team of sen-"Hope fu.Jly ior Christa we can pull Riggins, jun­"We're offto a pretty that out of ior Megan them and get
good start, but you 
Farrell, a bit more
could tell we were a
sophomore confident. Lauren bit nervous out of the But we came Sylvester and gate." out of the freshman evening with A m y two wins and 
Brian Barnes
Prestinario two records beat the sec­Irish women's coach and that's a 
ond-place Louisville team by nearly four sec­onds. 
The Irish also took first in the 200 medley relay, but by a much closer margin ­.03 seconds, again over Louisville. The team of freshman Colleen Fotsch and sophomores Samantha Maxwell, Kellyn Kuhlke and Amywren Miller had a qualifying time that was a 
Loss 
continued from page 24 
them a little credit, too," Irish coach Mike Brey said in a press conference after the game. 
Irish senior shooting guard Kyle McAlarney scored seven points on 3-of-4 shooting in the first six minutes as Notre Dame built its 10-point edge. But West Virginia closed the gap quickly and cut the deficit to four with 9:45 left in the first half. 
The Mountaineers ended the period with a 6-0 run to take a 42-40 at halftime. 
good start 
for us." 
Competition continues at 10 a.m. Thursday, as the men try for their third title in four years and the women attempt to lock up their 13th consecutive con­ference championship. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu and Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
West Virginia never trailed after intermission. With 16:03 left, Irish junior Luke Harangody knocked down two free throws to cut his team's deficit to three, but Notre Dame never got closer than that. 
Harangody finished with a game-high 26 points but McAlarney, who netted 12 points, was the only other Irish player to score in double figures. 
"We kept digging, we gave ourselves a chance to come back," Brey said. "We had some great looks here in the second half. I ·thought we'd score a little bit more in the second half the way we 


IJndereraduate Researth @ Notre Dame IJptomine Events and Important News ­
6 ,,, : 
Information at ': http://undergradresearch.nd:eCiu· 
. . 
IJpc:ominl! Writinl! W0rk5110Pt'' 
(Sponsored by University Writing Center ~nd Office of Fellowships/Undergraduate Research) · 
Grant Proposai-Writtne, 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2-3 p.m., 104 Coleman Morse Lounge 
tonlerence Abstract·Writing, 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 5..7 p.m., 116 DeBartolo Hall 

Purdue 
continued from page 24 
and senior Katie Potts won 8-4. The top-ranked duo of Tefft and freshmen Kristy Frilling then swept the dou­we came out and took care of business." 
At the onset of singles play, Notre Dame separated itself from the team that lost to Northwestern, and certainly from the Purdue squad it faced. Matthews led the effort, earn­ing a victory 6­
bles point with 0, 6-1 at No. 5
'Today, we came out 
an 8-7 victory. singles. Frilling
and took care of
Despite the followed her fact that all the business." lead, prevailing doubles matches 6-1, 6-1, and ended in Irish Tefft continued
Kelcy Tefft 
victories. the the trend, win­
Irish senior 
team was far ning 6-1, 6-0. 
from satisfied. 
"All of our dou­bles teams didn't play as well as we should have," Tefft said. "All of our matches were closer than we would have liked them to be." 
Tefft said the key to the domi­nating performance was forget­ting Sunday's loss to Northwestern in the National Indoor Semifinals. 
"I think we just let that go," Tefft said. "All of the matches there show where we stood, both in singles and doubles, and what we needed to do. Today, 
scored in the first half, but they're long and athletic and they're kind of hard to keep off the board." 
Mountaineers guard Alex Ruoff led West Virginia with 24 points, including four 3­pointers. Ruoff nailed a base­line jumper with just over 12 minutes left to give the Mountaineers a 12-point lead. 
"He gave them confidence," Brey said. "When we had Potts defeated 
her opponent in 

her first ,singles match o(the season, 6-1, 6-2. Sophomore Kristin Rafael pro­vided the Irish with a 6-0 lead by winning 7-5, 6-2, and finally, in the only match that went to three sets, Ciobanu prevailed 4­6, 6-3, 10-6. 
Notre Dame will travel to Utah to face both Brigham Young and Utah over the week­end. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer@nd.edu 
offensive rebounds before finally scoring. The home team also had 15 points off turnovers to Notre Dame's eight. 
"They hurt us on the back­board," Brey said. "That was the real issue, not being able to control the backboard as good as we did at home, and that kind of cost us." 
The Mountaineers built a 
17-point lead 
with less than a ­

him finally "They hurt us on the minute left and 
missing a few, backboard. That was sent the Irish we couldn't packing.
the real issue, not
clean up the Notre Dame backboard and being able to control will head to 
get a rebound. the backboard as Providence 
He's one of the Saturday. The
good as we did at
better players, Friars also 
a first-team home, and that kind went down all-league guy, ofcost us." Wednesday, los­and he's one of ing 94-76 to the guys that's Louisville.
Mike Brey 
making them A season go right now -Irish coach after going 14­
a very confi­dent player." 
After holding their own under the basket against Louisville and South Florida, the Irish were outrebounded 40-28 against West Virginia. The Mountaineers edged Notre Dame 16-6 in second­chance points. On one posses­sion early in the second half. West Virginia grabbed four 4 in conference 
play. the Irish must win four of their final five games to finish their Big East slate with a .500 record. 
"You can't hang your head. and this group won't," Brey said. "They'll keep competing and battling." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Off-Campus Housing 
Dublin Village, Irish Crossings,Wexford Place, Ivy Quad 
Now taking applications for 2009-'1 0 
www.CESPM.info -;.!!fAfJ!JIII!!If~~=~­PropertyMgr@CESPM.info CES ~::~~g~ncnl
Call574-968-0112 
Starting at S600 per Student ll{..,ulty 
~.... , ... --..... , ... t...-•-1' p .....­



page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 19, 2009 

Standings 
continued from page 24 
has it a little tougher -it faces UConn in addition to the Cardinals. 
Still in the hunt: DePaul (20-7, 8-5), No. 22 Notre Dame (1.8-6, 7-5) 
The Blue Demons beat Syracuse, 87-79, Tuesday and have the week off to prepare for South Florida on Feb. 24. After that, they face Marquette and Cincinnati, so they have a chance to win out and snag a top-four spot. 
Notr~ Dame heads into the Huskies' den this weekend, but after that the Irish face Syracuse, Providence and West Virginia, all winnable games. Should the two teams finish tied, Notre Dame holds the tiebreaker thanks to two wins over DePaul this season. 
Right in the middle: Rutgers (16-10, 7-6), Marquette (16-11, 7-6), Georgetown (6-7, 16-10), South Florida (18-8, 5-7) 
South Florida lost to the Irish Tuesday but played well enough to win in the first half. Junior·guard Janae Stokes hit four 3-pointers in the half. The Bulls still have to travel to DePaul and Villanova on the road before the conference tournament. 
Rutgers and Marquette both picked up wins Tuesday, Marquette over Cincinnati and Rutgers over Seton Hall. The Golden Eagles have easy games against St. John's and Providem;e before finishing against DePaul and Louisville. The Scarlet Knights have three winnable games before ending the season against UConn. 
Georgetown helped itself stay in contention by beating West Virginia in overtime Wednesday. It faces Syracuse and Villanova before finishing against Seton Hall. 
The homogenous bottom grouping: Syracuse (15-10, 4-8), West VIrginia (14-11, 3-9), St. John's (15-10, 3-9), Providence (9-16, 3-9), Cincinnati (13-13, 3-10), Seton Hall (15-12, 3-11) 
These teams are all around the same area. Syracuse has a shot at climbing into the top-eight and receiving a bye, but it would need to win out (against Georgetown, Notre Dame, West Virginia and Providence) to have a legiti­mate shot. 
Since every team makes the tournament, these teams have a chance to put together a run once they get to Hartford. Syracuse, West Virginia and St. John's have decent non-conference records, so a few wins and a win or two in the conference tournament could get them NCAA consideration. 
Cincinnati, Providence, West Virginia and Seton Hall didn't help their causes by losing Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu. 

Where the girls are. 
JUST ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Wo.nder where NO girls are living next year? 
Brand ni'w Irish Row Apartments and Irish Crossings Townhomes are leasing fast tor both the 2009·2010 and 2010·2011 school years. 
Interestingly, future residents are 80% girls and 20% guys so far-that's four girls to every one guy. 
What brings the girls? 

Maybe it's the cool features that come with riving at Irish Row or Irish Crossings, like: 
• Furnished residences 

-Including a 42" flat panel HDTV in every living room 
• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Up to 4 bedrooms per unit 


• 
FREE Internet &200+ TV stations 


Jrlsh Row 
NO> 
AtM•>l~ 
l'il>ld• 
* 

m<M<~~'>' ~J.t<Uffoot
• 

• 
Laundry room with washN & dryer in each unit 

• 
Fitness center and lounge, induding tanning 

• 
Brand new construction 

• 
Community social events 

• 
Close to groceries, restaurants, entertainment and campus 


Come see what's bringing in all the girts. But, better hurry before all the guys catch on. 
Irish 
ROW 


lrishRowApartm~nts.com 1 lri.shCrossings.com briem@irishwwap;mmentHom 1 574.177.6666 Sal~s modd at the corner of Burdette & Vaness StreEtS 
Thursday, February 19, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEURlTIK'lBORN ON TIUS JH\': Molly Ring"ald. 4.1: Dr. Drc. -1-l; Matt Dillon. -15; Jo!tn Trn,·olta, 55 
..

llappy Uh1hday: N<.>l cwryonc ha~ a> inn•watiw ;,nd nriginal a mirn:l '"you. Of'<'ll up ah<>ut your ideas and plan<. You ar~ the one to mak.: reh.>rms and to standardite wnal's ll<1ing nn in your community. Your numbt-'t> are 4, 10, ll'l, 2-l. 29.-l~. 48 
.\RIF$ (l\.bn:JI Zt·Aprlll\l): l't<.>m"k l<W" "lld g<><>d Iilli<!<. Th~ ~ll<'OU~lli'h )">U h"w had wirh dilkrt•Jtt JX~:ople )'(JU'\'e hdp•·d oUl. w;u he hon<>r<'<IIIOW, "'do not hcsitatt· to ask for hdp t)r tv !Shan.~ your plans, An um~xp:ctcd surpri~e \\·ill t:aust· alt~~ration~, 
***** 

TA(}Rl!S (April .W.May 20): It's n(> one's bu~i.n<'~> what you are doing with wh,lm .and, hy being: -c,;()(·.aL yuu \VilJ htvitc t:~pj'*.JSitiutL Dun't U"totkc pnHl\:ist.~s W1tbout. knowi•tg what you wHI gc1. in rt.'turn. A prokssinnal change will he dcJl<'lldem on lh<t d~...-bions )'On make now.*** 
GEi\UNltMay Zl-.honc lOr Make d"' changes !hat wil.l hdp y<>u !J<'l ahead. You'"'" he a kader whn m'tlkcs a differenc~ so dc>n't hold l>adc If S<>me<>nc qucSiions r<>U. ad­,Jress that per...:m and cnntinuc ~oniidcnlly do"1l the palh )'"" h•ve cbo>Cn. *** 
C,\NCER fjnne .:!J,.july 22): Y()u tn.ay have tn bot• more Cf'<~tivc with }'OUr m~mcy but dw! dm"n't me~n Y"" "h"•uld ip,·eit in some f11~H'R'h s<:hl'tll<'. [)<m't fea. ttyiug '"me· thing u<.>w '" pu>hing for adv,mct'tlt<lll. UliliT-e yuur skilh It> the fullest. * * * 
I.F.O (July 1..1-Aug.ll): You have what it tllis w swav peopk to thitlk the ,;ame way )'<lil d<). If you can hmn a grout'• you will he ;,driving (o!'<'e, a<'compt.~hing what you l\Ct mttto do. A JHUinership crmlJ w1rawl your plan;, ***** 
\'IRGO (Aug.l.l-Scpt. 22): l<l'cp your ~motion> out of)·our dt-cisic>n-making if you don't w~nt to make a mi<Mke. liard work. Jots <.>f •~<'tail and t~>t kuing mhen mcddl\' will deM:mine the out,~mne of whatever you arc trying to a.:hieve, ** 
LIBRA (Sepl.l.,·Oel. 2ZI; You have posiliollt'd yourself well 'iO don't let anyoru.· c;;use you W qu.:stio.n your choices. A unique approach to life,low and C'reativity will brin~ others m your side, giving you the •trength to follow tlm:>u~h with your plans. 
**** .. 
S('ORI'IO tOet.l.l·Nov. lli: Critidsm will dh<eourage you arn:l can be avoided if you 
<m: Jili~wnt atld per(;,>ct wh~t ym.t are pursuing. It'~ not wonh the risk oflo•ing the C<ln· fiden<~ d ~mne~m~ who can hdp you ill the future. *** 
SAGl'fTARlt 'S (Nov. 22·1~. lll: Y"u haw w lake acti<>n bawd on what you fc•d is right, not what ~orneone ciS<' is telling you. Hav~ faith in who you= and whal you can <1<>. Alllll1l1Sinativc approach to :rome <lf yournld pwjC<:ts can tlll'll things around <lrastkally MW. *** 
CAI•RtCOkN (l)e.,. 2ZcJan.l9l: 'hking ch;mcc' i~ l'<>r amateun who dvn't know how to play the grunr. You c·an stay.in control by k<-cping things a• ;~abk. simpk arn:l 11:1fe as pos>~hlc. Change will C<)n1c when tho: time is right.*** 
AQllARHJS (,jan. 20-l<'.,b. Ill): You will hui.ld ~l.tvn!ll.h ofcharader h> pursuing thing• that at~ 1!'""1 for Y'>U •• likt> a ilhl<>s; n-gimc arn:l ht•allhy diet. L<·;,ming willlc"d loa "'hole new "·<>rid of prnsperity and irn.-reas,d ;;elf..:stet•m. Sho'>'' .:<mfidenc,, in "ll that y<.>u do. *** * 
t•lSCt:S W<>b. 19-.\larclllll): It's time to wntu"" into talks with svmcnn~ wh<l <:an c·untr\butc to what you are working on. A past partnership that wa> shaky or ended on bnd terms tWt"ds to ~ r<~..stahli$hed in ord~r to tin ish \,·hat ynu began. ** 
llirtb<l~t) !l;tb)·: Yt)U oo-e rmlg<lillg. killd a>!d <>·Hli11g lO hclplhe IUl<krdnJ;. You '"'' a thinker arn:l a doer. Y<>u are unafraid lo veotuw into lll1famili:~r tenit<>l').. 
Eugenia~.~ tVcb J$:ife:!<·~ cogt.~ni~1~rst-,·om for l,::onfidtmtiaJ t.·cmsnlt:tlhtnj.., .mrssxK··t~x-~>mf(~uge.nial~~st t'lr Bugrmia's hldg. ~~strtJadt'k-e.,cmn J()r1·im 
CROSSWORD 
Across Irish interjection 8 Part of some resort names: Abbr. 11 One way to get something down 14 The Black Stallion, e.g. 15 Paul Anka hit that made it to #19 
17 & 18 "J'ai Di:lux Amours" singer 19Whitish 
20Extended vacationers may take them 
21 G9_es back 25 Pulitzer-winning 
biographer Leon 26 &29 Tangerine 33Nickname 
preceder 34•0ne Song Glory" musical 36 Rice pad 
37 U.S.N. clerk: Abbr. 38 Burglary ... or a hint to 17/18·. 
26129·. 47/51~ and 62163· Across 
42 Viral inflammation, informally 
43 Sailor's saint 45 Paradoxical fellow 46 12,time baseball All-Star 4f7 & 51 Wei-day wish 
53 Crush 54 Literary pen name 55 Chinese chicken 
flavorers 58 Gracile 62 & 63 Temporary 
setback 
66 Baby shower attendees, often 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~':"+::::+:+=HR 
-::t":'+~:-t':+::':+::-1 


67 Can't·miss proposition 68 ~shame on you!" 69Lush 70 Gets together 
Down Mexican peninsula 2 One taking a 
bow? 3 Nasty wound 4 Minded 5 It may be written 
in stone 6 Rallying cry? 7 What causes 
Fred to be fired? a.. Longtime breath 
·freshener 9 Fake 10 Person holding 
things up? 11 Chow alternative 12 Play_ (do 
some tennis) 13 Rocky peaks 16"The_of 
Reading Gaor (Wilde poem) 22 Zinger 23 Word belore Rabbit or Fox 24 Trig ratio 26 Early film executive 27 "The Jungle Book" wolf 
28 She renamed herself Mara. in Scripture 
30 Slangy negative 
31 Scacchi of "Presumed Innocent" 
WILLSHORTZ 

Pu:rzle by Pattick Bllndalitll' 
32Drain 48 Relatives of cha-59 High balls? cha·chas
35 Looney Tunes 
60 Summer cooler 
nickname 49 Danny of "Ruby" 
61 Trading places: 
39 Grasps 50 Be emphatic 
Abbr. 
40Actress 52 Where shopping 
63 Code crackers· 
Swenson of carts are pushed 
org.
"Benson" 55 Mil. rank 
64 Bazooka, e.g.
41 Hiding place 56 Some guesses, 44 Cloverleaf for short 65 Word with sports component 57 Be ill-humored or training 
For answers, call 1-900·285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nylimes.com!mobilexwon:J lor more information, Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comtwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.cornlleaminglxwords. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA

www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
~J! 
Unscramble lhese tour Jumbles. 
one letter to each square. 
to torm four ordinary words. 
DRATY 

I I I 

©2008 Tribune ~ia Services. Inc. 
ff~l II 
tWHARRO I

IJ I II 
YADLAM 

(IJ II Answer here: rr r JA "r xI I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 
•

Yesterday's IJumbles: BOOTY HAVEN OUTLAW OXYGEN Answer; Where he went when he stopped drinking ­ONTHEWAGON 

WHfEN THfE SfEfER RfEAO THEIR FORTUNfE, SHE:--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City --------------~ State ---~ Zip_____~ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, February 19, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Sliding down the momttain 
Notre Dame falls at West Virginia as NCAA hopes dwindle 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 

On Wednesday night at West Virginia, Notre Dame came out playing like it had in back-to-back wins over Louisville and South Florida. Unfortunately for the Irish, they couldn't keep it up. 
After Notre Dame (14-11, 5­8 Big East) jumped out to a 16-6 lead and forced West Virginia coach Bob Huggins to call two timeouts early in the first half, the Mountaineers (18-8, 7 -6) stormed back and eventually secured a 79-68 win on their home floor. 
"We couldn't get into a rhythm, and I think their defense, you've got to give 
see LOSS/page 21 
I 


AP Left, junior forward Luke Harangody finishes a dunk during Notre Dame's 79-68 loss at West Virginia Wednesday. Right, the Mountaineers' Alex Ruoff drives past Harangody. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Unbeaten Wildcats set to visit 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 
No. 25 Notre Dame will host an undefeated Northwestern team today that Irish coach Bobby Bayliss called one of the most improved in the country. 
"They are off to a great start at 10-0 and have terrific depth," Bayliss said. "I expect a great challenge. We have played a more difficult sched­ule to date than they, and I hope that gives us a slight edge in the close matches because they have dominated most of their early opponents. 
"They have several players who really make you earn what you get and they play good doubles." 
see WILDCATS/page 21 

ND SWIMMING 
Men's and women's teams lead Big East Championships 
The men's relay team set a deadlocked with Louisville to the final dive, but in the 200 medley relay. The By MIKE GOTIMER and school and conference record after the first leg, but senior Pittsburgh's Alex Volovetski, team of senior Jeff Wood,MOLLY SAMMON with a time of 6:27.19, and Danny Lutkus swam a strong who won the event by a score sophomore Joe Raycroft, jun­
Sports Writers 

the women's relay team did second leg to give the Irish a of 373.15-367.60, narrowly ior Andrew Hoffman and the same with a time of sizeable lead. Sophomore edged out Bulfin for first. sophomore Joshua Nosal fin­
Both Notre Dame's men's 7:13.51. With 137 points, the Steven Brus and junior Junior Caleb Dunnichay ished with a time of 1:30.25. and women's teams posted men lead Pittsburgh by four MacKenzie LeBlanc closed out earned all-conference honors Louisville earned top honors record-setting performances points, while the women, with the race for Notre Dame. with his third-place finish, with a meet-record time of in the 800-yard free relay to 80 points, have a 12-point The Irish divers, led by sen­while sophomores Wes Villafor 1:25.85. earn the lead after one day of edge over Louisville headed ior captain Michael Bulfin, and Eric Lex rounded out the "This was a great session for competition at the Big East into the second day of the claimed second through fifth top five. us," men's coach Tim Welsh Championships in four-day meet. place in the 1-rneter diving The men finished competi­Indianapolis. The men's relay team was event. The event came down tion with a sixth-place finish see DAY ONE/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Boilers no match for Irish 
Squad sweeps Purdue after suffering first loss ofseason Sunday 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

Sports Writer 
No. 14 Notre Dame shut out Purdue Wednesday· and improve to 7-1, erasing the memory of a tough defeat to top-ranked Northwestern Sunday. 
"We were excited to get all the matches today, our first 7-0 this year," senior Kelcy Tefft said. "Usually there is a girl or two that doesn't perform very well that day, or a girl or two on the other team who plays very well that day." 
The Irish put pressure on Purdue from the start, as fresh­men Shannon Matthews and junior Colleen Rielley won 8-5 and junior Cosmina Ciobanu 
see PURDUE/page 21 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL ANALYSIS •
ND still 1n the hunt for a first-round bye 
Four games left, time to shine. 
No. 24 Notre Dame did so Tuesday against South Florida, at least in the second half. The Irish outscored Bill Brink the Bulls 42­27 after the 
Sports Editor 
break and won 86-79 in Tampa. But they'll have to man up, figuratively, against all-world Connecticut Sunday. 
Ten teams were in conference action Wednesday, and some boosted their hopes while oth­ers moved themselves further from contention. 
Stone-cold lock: No. 1 Connecticut (26-0, 12-0 Big East) 
Nothing to say here. UConn will win the Big East and the NCAA Tournament unless either Oklahoma or Auburn has itself a game in the champi­onship. 
Also going bye-bye: No. 8 Louisville (24-3, 11-2), No. 19 Pittsburgh (19-5, 9-3), Villanova (17-9, 9-3) · 
The Cardinals won 89-60 at home over St. John's Tuesday, and their two-loss conference record has them in good posi­tion heading into the confer­ence tournament. As long as senior forward Angel McCoughtry keeps up her per­formance (23 points, 9.3 rebounds, 4.9 steals per game), Louisville will be in good shape. 
Pittsburgh beat Villanova Wednesday night, 70-54, to move into a tie for third in the conference. The Panthers still play Louisville, but finish against Cincinnati, West Virginia and Providence. Nova 
see STANDINGS/page 22 







