
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Seeing the fruits of their labor 
Bengal Bouts fighters make first trip to Bangladesh in program's 79-year history to witness what they fight for 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
For the first time in Bengal Bouts' history, five Notre Dame boxers set their gloves aside to witness first-hand what it is that they are really fighting for in poverty-stricken Bangladesh last summer. 
The boxers' trip to Bangladesh provided the opportunity to experience how the money raised from the competition benefits people in the impoverished country, said senior and Bengal Bouts presi­dent Mark Weber. 
"In our 79 years of service to Bangladesh. not a single boxer had ever actually set foot in the country," he safd. "There were many reasons I felt this needed to change -as a stu­dent, I saw the potential to provide a tremendous educa­tional experience for our box­ers; as the president of Bengal Bouts, I saw the opportunity to transform our connection with Bangladesh from a mere 

check into a  real relatio n­ 
ship."  
Senior  captain  Leo  

Rubinkowski, senior Tomas Castillo, senior Patrick Martin and alumnus Patrick Ryan accompanied Weber on the trip. 
Castillo said the trip was a chance to understand what he had been fighting while boxing at Notre Dame. . 
''I've been part of the Boxing Club for four years. It meant a lot to be able to box for a good cause, and I was interested in knowing what we really do 

. and what goes on in 
see BOUTS/page 4 



Class council election results released 
Soler to lead sophomores; senior ticket run-of!Thursday 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Editor 
The senior class council and sopho­more class council election results were announced Monday evening at 9 p.m., with a clear winner in the sophomore race and a run-off election result in the senior class council race. 
Judicial Council Marcello Perez, vice president of the Judicial Council Elections Committee, announced the results of these two races after voting was held Monday from 8 a.m. until 8 p.m. online. 
Senior class council 
The three-way race for the senior class council resulted in a run-off election 
see ELECTION/page 6 
Tillett Ticket Kyrouac Ticket Harmon Ticket Abstain  444 votes 332 votes 166 votes 104 votes  42.4% 31.7% 15.8% 9.9%  
Junior Class Council  
Pulte Ticket Kimberly Ticket Abstain  611 votes 511 votes 120 votes  47.3% 39.5% 9.3%  
Freshman Class Council  
Soler Ticket Kelly Ticket Ruhling Ttcl<et Abstain  609 votes 263 votes 148 votes 76 votes  55.5% 23.9% 13.5% 6.9%  


RESULTS AT A GLANCE Senior Class Council 
AARON STEINER/Oboofvar Gr"!>hic 
Alleged election violations plague junior class race 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Editor 
Four separate allegations of election viola­tions were brought against the two tickets running for junior class council, Marcelo Perez, vice president of the Judicial Council Elections Committee, announced after a one­and-a-half hour meeting of the Executive Committee of Judicial Council ended at 1 
a.m. Tuesday morning. 
Neither ticket was disqualified, and a run­off election will take place Thursday because neither ticket garnered more than 50 per­cent of the vote necessary to claim a majori­ty. 
Both tickets were accused of the same vio­lation, according to Perez, but neither was 
see VIOLATION/page 6 


Tipoff event opens tournament registration 
Bookstore Basketball's inaugural event includes games of Knockout, 'Horse' competition 
Father Edward "Monk" Malloy and former Irish basketball player Tom Timmermans as the participants. 
"We found that this might be an interesting way to get people out and not just promote regis­tration, but also through regis­tration comes more money for Jumpball," Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Laura Wolbeck said. · 
Bookstore Basketball donates each year's proceeds to 
see TIPOFFIpage 6 

BP holds 
auction to 
raise funds 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
If you're looking for the opportunity to have meals with some of campus' most notable celebrities, including University President emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, Golden Tate and Jimmy Clausen, the Undertones and the Leprechaun, Breen-Phillips Hall has the event for you. 
These dinners will be auc­tioned off at the 25th annual Meal Auction Wednesday night from 7:30-9:30 in LaFortune, co-commissioner of the Meal Auction Mary Beth Lee said. 
All proceeds will go to the Meals on Wheels charity, Lee said. 
Other celebrities being auc­tioned off for a dinner date include professor James McKenna, the trombone sec­tion of the band, University President emeritus Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, mem­bers of the women's sDccer team and vice president of stu­dent affairs Fr. Mark Poorman. 
Bidding will start at $5 per plate, but prices can go much higher, Lee said. 
"I heard that a few years ago Brady Quinn went for $500 a plate," she said. 
Lee said the winner of a meal will dine with the celebrity at a time convenient for everyone's schedules during the semester, 
see AUCTION/page 4 


By SAM WERNER News Writer 
The opening round won't tip off for weeks, but the Bookstore Basketball season officially began last night with the inau­gural Bookstore Basketball Tipoff. 
Students participated in two games of Knockout, one game. of Hot Spots and witnessed a com­petition of "Horse" fought among business professor Carl Ackerman, president emeritus 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Pondering Poke111on 

I would like to take this opportunity to discuss the societal ramifications of a seemingly innocuous cultural phe­nomenon from our past: Pokemon. 
You could tell a lot about someone 

by their choice of starting Joey Kuhn Pokemon. The most popular Scene Writer choice by far was Charmander, because it would evolve into a Charizard, a lean, ferocious, fire-breathing dragon. Who wouldn't want a Charizard? Charizard was hot. Charizard was sexy. Charizard was sleek, powerful, and utterly destruc­tive. The second most popular choice was Squirtle, which looked too cute as a baby to win any battles, but eventu­ally it would evolve into Blastoise, a tank of a turtle with huge water can­nons on its back. In last place was Bulbasaur, which would become Venusaur, a clumsy-looking lout with a giant flower growing on its back. 
The people who picked Charmanders were the kind with the competitive edge, the killer instinct, the drive to win. They were the Ferrari drivers, the supermodel wife­flaunters. Those who went with Squirtle were a little more temperate; they would be likely to drive some­thing big and powerful but still some­what practical, like a Toyota Land Cruiser. But who would choose Bulbasaur? Maybe they were not into brute force, preferring a good game of chess to rugby. Maybe they wanted more of a strategic challenge. Maybe they did it out of spite for the main­stream majority. Or maybe they just felt a special empathy with Bulbasaur because they knew how it felt to be picked last in gym class.They would be the ones to drive a beat-up old minivan, and if you criticized that minivan, they would defend it with all their heart. They possessed true com­passion, true spunk, and true fire. 
Alright, you got me. I picked Bulbasaur, and my Pokemon career consequently crashed and burned faster than the American economy. I justify myself, though, by telling myself that I stuck to the honorable tenets of peace and knowledge. When you are growing up, adults are always telling you to "treat others as you want to be treated" and trying to "instill a love of learning" in you. Pokemon similarly lures new players in with a seemingly mild motto: "Gotta catch 'em all!" The ostensible objective of the game is to collect specimens to fill out your Pokedex for research purposes. As the plotline progresses though, you find your Ash or Gary quickly losing sight of his scholarly ideals and sliding instead into the mere pursuit of power and glory. The de facto motto of the game is "Gotta beat 'em all!" 
Pokemon may have indirectly caused the current crisis on Wall Street. No wait, that's not what I'm trying to say. I guess it's just that Pokemon can be seen as an indicator of many of the ills of our society. No ... that's not it either. Maybe I'm say­ing that almost anything can be (ridiculously) stretched into an extended metaphor for life? Nah, just forget it. I need to get back to Grand Theft Auto 4 anyway. . 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhn1@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: AFTER WINNING AN OSCAR, WHO WOULD BE THE RRST PERSON YOU WOULD THANK? 







Blair Santaspirt Erin Simon Bri Krafcik Megan Fesl Claire Podgorski 
Junior Senior Sophomore Junior Sophomore Of! Campus Cavanaugh McGlinn PasqueriDa West Pangborn 
"Kit Kellener & "Oscar the "Brad Pitt.'' "Grandma "My mom." The Fest Grouch." Elsie. , 
,
Family. 

Man  tries  to  steal  
customer's laptop  
BRADENTON, Fla.  - 

Sheriff's officers said a 19­year-old man snatched a Starbucks customer's laptop after being told he could not use it to check his Facebook account. According to offi­cers, the man then grabbed the customer's laptop and ran out of the coffee shop, located in an outlet mall. 
Two people in the parking lot tackled the man and held him there until a mall secu­rity guard arrived. 
The victim got his laptop back and the man was charged Saturday with rob­bery by sudden snatching, a felony. 
Fish pedicures banned In Rorlda 
TALLAHASSEE -A trendy pedicure with fish that nib­ble dead skin from the feet has been nipped in the bud. The Florida Board of Cosmetology has banned the procedure, even before it was known to be offered anywhere in the state. The board said salons had been inquiring about its legality and decided to preemptively strike. 
The treatment is popular in Asia and has spread to some U.S. cities. A client sticks feet, hands or other body parts in a bowl or pool, and the small fish chow down on soft decaying skin. 
Magpies build nest in metal district 
HONG KONG -Even the magpies are trying to blend in in the metal and concrete jungle that is Hong Kong. News reports said that a pair of common magpies built a nest on a tree in Hong Kong's Tuen Mun district using scrap metal twigs believed to have been collected from a nearby construction site. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

Saint Mary's Dance Marathon is hosting "Charity Denim" today from 2 to 7p.m. in the Student Center base­ment. Admission is $1 and will benefit Riley Hospital for Children. 
Semi-finals for Bengal Bouts will take place today starting at 6:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Contact the Joyce Center ticket office for tickets. 
Mass for Ash Wednesday will be celebrated Wednesday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. 
Wendy Falk MacGregor, the Chief Marketing Officer for Feeding American and Lisa Jaworski, the Chief Executive Officer for the Food Bank of Northern Indiana will give a talk Wednesday titled "Hunger in America and South Bend: Responding to Unprecedented Demand" at 5 
p.m. in 136 DeBartolo. All are welcome. 
The 51st Anual Collegiate Jazz Festival will take place in Washington Hall from 7 to 11 
p.m. Top college jazz bands will perform while being judged by five highly acclaimed jazz artists. Students at Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross are admitted free of charge but must obtain tickets from the LaFortune Ticket Office. 
Bengal Bouts finals take place Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::c 
!;: 
LLI 
~ 
..... 
c:C 
(.) 







0 

..... HIGH 34 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW 25 LOW LOW LOW LOW LOW 
25 13 
42 31 
41 25 
29 
17 
31 20 

Atlanta 74 162 Boston 70 149 Chicago 64 148 Denver 65 142 Houston 83 167 Los Angeles 78 172 Minneapolis 80 162 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
___:__ ---~-----­

Tuesday, February 24, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Profs debate green economy 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Wrirer 
Two University professors presented differing viewpoints on how environmental and eco­nomic issues are affecting the United States at a lecture Monday. 
Engineering professor Frank Incropera spoke of taking measures to preserve the envi­ronment and the present fuel situation that affect the United States and the global communi­ty. 
"In my mind, energy is as critical as an issue today as food and shelter," Incropera said. 
Incropera said while mother countries in the world rely on tenewable energy resources as 
a power source, the United States depends on non­renewable sources for 80 percent of its energy needs. 
"These are finite resources," Incropera said. "At some point we are going to reach our peak productivity with each of the 
"European countries that have invested in these alternative fuel technologies are at the cutting edge of this development.,, 
Frank lncropera engineering professor 

resources and then there will be a gradual decline." 
Incropera "Said even those with an optimistic outlook on the fuel situation predict that oil production will to decline in the year 2030. This makes the development and implementa-
Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 

tion of alternative energy Economics professor Amitava sources increasingly important. Dutt took a different stance on 
"At some point in the not-too­the issue. Dutt is in favor of distant future, we're going to continued use of non-renew­have to rely on other sources of able resources because it is 
energy," he said. 
Incropera said it will be difficult to begin depend­ing on other energy sources because the United States will be starting from such a small scale. 
"Right now in this country, solar power accounts for less than one per­cent of our total energy, and 
':4.t some point we are going to reach our peak productivity with each ofthe resources and then there will be a gradual decline.,, 
Frank lncropera engineering professor 
wind power only accounts for 
about two per­cent," he said. 
Incropera compared the American views on alternative energy sources to those of other countries. 
"European countries that have invested in these alternative fuel technolo­gies are at the 
cutting edge of this develop­ment," Incropera said. "In terms of economic growth, the United States is incredibly behind. When the time comes and we adapt to these new technologies, we're going to have to import everything." 
even if we fuels. "If the 
resources begin to run out, the price will go up and get so high that no one will buy them thereby forcing us into invest­ing in alternative fuels," Dutt said. 
Dutt also said that despite the good that can come from alter­native fuel technologies, the cost might outweigh the possi­ble positive outc6mes that can arise. 
"We know that technology can be created that can cut down on pollution, but you have to consider the cost," he said. "You have to consider the cost to society as a whole as well." 
Contact Molly Madden mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 
Notre Dame Graduate 

, Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 

cheaper. 
"There is the view among econ­omists that believes that peo­ple should do whatever they think is best for them," Dutt said. If they feel like using cheap energy sources, then they should do it." 
Dutt is confident in the success of the market system and said it will continue to work run out of fossil 
non-renewable 
Ma~:.rrane Pet Medical Center Welcomes: 
Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Or. Logue brings a wealth ofexperience in emergency and critical care medicine -care of the sickest pets. to our experienced staff. 
"Caringfor your pet is caring for a family member and I foe/ privileged to work with a great team lo carefor your pel, whether healthy or ill." 
To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 Email questions to kkloguc(i(magrancPMC.com 

Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
Professor returns to SMC to share vvorks 
By MEGAN LONEY 
NewsWrirer 
With the support of the English Department and the Center for Academic Innovation, professor and author Kirsten Sundberg Lunstrum returned to Saint Mary's to give students a sample of her fiction·read­ing Monday. 
Lunstrum, who previously taught in the College's English Department, read an excerpt titled "Familial Kindness" from her newly published short story col­
lection "Swimming w i t h Strangers" and an excerpt from the preface of the novel she has been working on for the past year. 
Lunstrum, who is cur­rently ass"is­tant professor 

ers, Mr. Ander, Lunstrum said. 
She said she chose to write this novel in third­person plural voice from the point of view of other girls who have attended the same school and are pass­ing the story of these par­ticular girls to others. 
The novel is a story of the relationship between the girls and the wife of their teacher. The wife is envi­ous of the youth and their freedom, while the girls are fascinated with her because she is the ideal woman, Lunstrum said. 
"Read. I think you only come to writing ifyou love to read and you only become a better writer ifyou continue to read.,, 
Kirsten Lunstrum creative writing professor 
of creative writing at Purchase College in New York, said she was glad to be back at Saint Mary's. 
"I am very homesick for Saint Mary's often; it's a treat to be back," Lunstrum said. 
Students lis­tened intently as Lunstrum read excerpts 
The setting for the novel is the Puget Sound in Lin strum's home state, Washington. 
"No matter how much I try to write about other places, Washington
keePs P P_
0 
ping up into 

my stories," Lunstrum said. "I tried writing about the Midwest, but I couldn't do it." 
At the end of the fiction reading, Lunstrum answered questions posed 
by students and gave advice to aspiring writers. 

from her short story about a woman whose  "The only way to get better is to wade  "Read," she said. "I think you  
daughter  is  through the stuffthat  only come to  
getting  mar­ is not lJOOd. ,,  writing  if  
ried.  In  the  you love  to  
story, her brother-in-law,  Kirsten Lunstrum  read you  and only  
whom she has  creative writing professor  become  a  

not seen in 30 years, comes to visit. 
A groan trav­eled through the audience when Lunstrum stopped the story short of the ending. 
Lunstrum introduced her next reading, a preface of the novel she is currently writing, with a short sum­mary of the story. 
The novel, tentatively titled "Dangerous Girls," is a novel about a group of· 13-year-old girls at an all­girl high school who have a crush on one of their teach-
better writer if you con­tinue to read. While the work­

shop is essential for writ­ers, I find that I learn the most from books." 
She encouraged writers to persevere with their writing, even if it is a lengthy process. 
"The only way to get bet­ter is to wade through the stuff that is not good," said Lunstrum. 
Contact Megan Loney mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
~rhc:-(")bne-rve-r is no'"' accepting tlJ>pli.cation5 tOt· <~ontrollcr,_ '-·'ie'"'point <::opy Editor .nnd Syst~:n:as !'\>1.un;;ager f'ur 2009-10.. 
~ .....'-'* (.:·••nt·roUcr t:tosition.,. ''-'biclt t••·o'\-'·idcs gre~t:t accounti.nR, e"pcricncc. i" op~,n to rbing ,juuiot•s. It '"' a two-~· car JU>!<irinn~ Un• ZOO•J-10 <:::ontJ·oU"r '''tU b<.•corn4.• t:h4.' ZOO!i-09 l·lusine"S~ Ma.lu'tgtotr... 
'l.'h~t~ View1Joint pn,.ition is nru.""n tu an~· s:t·uden.c-.. Syst·«.~n"IN­l'Vl,.nagcr "f>plic•u>ts •d>ould b" highl)' adct~t at c<>n•putcr tt·••uhlcshonting. 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

BOG considers beauty conference 
By SARAH MAYER NewsWrirer 
Senior communications major Emma Farrell asked the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) for a co-sponsorship to help spon,sor a female beauty conference at their meeting this week. 
The conference, in its second year, will be held in the Student Center later this spring. 
Farrell said she hopes the conference will "deepen the understanding of what being a woman means while trying to resist what makes a woman -seem to be." 
In other BOG news: 
+Technology commissioner Deirdre Hayden said she will be meeting with the Information Technology department at the College to find out how much it would cost to put a printer in the Student Center. 
+Michele Peterson, the Student Activities Board (SAB) president, said SAB went to the National Association for Campus Activities conference in NashviHe, Tenn. two weeks ago. She said the group brought back many new ideas to bring to Saint Mary's. Peterson said the group was interested in ideas like a Def Jam poet and a magician. 

+Elections commissioner Francesca Johnson said that the final leg of elections is taking place next week. The elections for the Class of 2010 and 2011 boards will be Monday on PRISM. The "Meet the Candidates" event for the class boards will be tomorrow in the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Contact Sarah Mayer smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 24, 2009 

months, Weber said the proj­Cross Mission has dozens of them." ect expanded to include a pro­parishes and schools spread But Weber's dream to expe­
Bouts 
duction crew to shoot the doc­out in areas of need around rience Bengal Bouts' impact in umentary and a larger mission the country to support the Bangladesh does not end as a
continued from page 1 
to establish relationships with­poor. journey across the world with Bangladesh," Castillo said. in the country. For Castillo, one of the high­a few of his boxing buddies. 
Additionally, Castillo said the According to Weber, the lights of the trip was having Upon returning from the trip paves the way for future expenses for the trip and doc­the chance to network in trip, Weber partnered with boxers to visit Bangladesh and umentary were made possible Bangladesh and meet the peo­Notre Dame's Center for Social take an interest in Bengal through generous contribu­ple whose lives have been Concerns to create a new Bouts' overall goals. tions from Bengal Bouts alum­improved through the Bouts, International Summer Service 
"It's important for the other ni; however, the four boxers he said. Learning Program (ISSLP). guys to know what it is that who traveled with him "made "We visited different villages The six-week ISSLP will be we do. We're not just beating the personal decision to go on far from the city [of Dhaka[. offered this summer to four each other up; we actually their own dime." We talked to communities that boxers who will provide edu­have tangible results," he said. The five Bouts boxers trav­actually receive the money cational assistance in tribal "It's really important to know eled throughout Bangladesh [from Bengal Bouts]," Castillo villages with the Holy Cross that [Bengal Bouts] is part of for two weeks, he said. said. "We also stayed with Missions in Bangladesh. something bigger." "We traveled almost con­some of the Holy Cross broth­The ISSLP will accomplish 
A trip to Bangladesh had stantly, visiting dozens of Holy ers within the city of Dhaka two objectives that Weber been in the works for a long Cross schools and parishes, and went to different sites that believes are part of the Bengal time, but serious plans to both urban and rural, around the Bouts support. We were Bouts mission: allowing Notre organize a trip began last the country. Moving from the making connections the with Dame students to experience spring, Weber said. city of Dhaka to the tribal vil­people there." the Bangladesh missions, and 
Photo couresy of Mark Weber 
"As a junior captain in 2007, lages was like going to a com­Weber said the trip also shed donating human resources and 
Former Bengal Bouts captain
I had become more familiar pletely different country," he new light on the people of monetary resources "to 
Pat Ryan gives a lift to a young
with the program and started said. Bangladesh. improve the quality of life in 
boy in Bangladesh.

seeing ways we could increase Today, Bengal Bouts is the "On television, all you see is ~an7,Iadesh through educa­our impact," he said. "In the largest single benefactor to the starvation, suffering and tiOn. fall semester [of 2007], I Holy Cross Mission in despair. You see weak people According to the Center for mysterious ideal is now mani­began meeting with Holy Cross Bangladesh, Weber said. The reaching out to you for Social Concerns website, the fested in real people, places priests at the Missions Center money raised by the Bouts help. But the people I saw program is only available to and personalities. With new in South Bend to discuss the funds educational initiatives in were not despairing but hope­Notre Dame Boxing Club mem­knowledge comes a new possibility of making a trip to rural Bangladesh. The region ful, not weak but strong," he bers and will begin in May responsibility," Weber said. Bangladesh to shoot a mini­accounts for the poorest in the said. "It's not just about what 2009. documentary story." country. we can do for them, it's about "Having witnessed the mis­Contact Becky Hogan at 
But over the next several Weber also said the Holy what we can do together with sions in Bangladesh, that once rhogan2@nd.edu 
Auction 
continued from page 1 
and the celebrity will pay for the winner's meal. 
According to Lee, certain celebrities, like Poorman and Hesburgh, are regulars to the Meal Auction. Poorman always hosts an "exciting" meal. she said. 
"Last year, I think he took [the winners] to the football changing rooms," Lee said. "This year, he's taking people to the tunnels of South Quad." 
Those who win a meal with Poorman will have the chance to see the tunnels underneath South Quad, and then dine in the Main Building. 
The winners will also have the opportunity to "elimb up the bell tower to ring the bells in the Basiliea." Lee said. 
Those who win a meal with the trombone section will enjoy a cookout at one of the band houses, according to Lee. 
In addition to the live auction for meals, which will take place in the LaFortune Ballroom, a silent auction will take place in the Dooley Room of LaFortune, where people can bid on gift certificates and baskets. 
Gift certificates will be o!Tered to a variety of business­es, including Five Guys, Chick­Fil-A, Applebee's and Kr:ispy Krome. 
"Every cent that we earn goes to Meals on Wheels," Lee said. 
They chose to make dona­tions to Meals on Wheels, according to Lee, because "it kind of fit with the whole theme of the meal auction." 
"You bid on a meal with a cel!'brity and the money that you pay goes to a meal that somebody else will be using," she said. 
Lee also said that because the auction will take place qn Ash Wednesday, no food will be served out of respect for those who choose to fast. 
"It really brings into the fore­front that you are fasting and the money you are raising will go ... to people who don't have as much opportunity as us to get meals," Lee said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
smervosh@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 24, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Report on tainted blood released 
LONDON -The first extensive report into Britain's tainted blood scandal stopped short Monday of blaming individual doctors or companies for what is widely viewed as the National Health Service's worst treatment disaster. 
House of Lords member Peter Archer's report called the scandal a "horrific human tragedy" but did not name any specific med­ical workers or pharmaceutical companies as being responsible for the deaths of around 
2.000 hemophiliacs since the 1970s. 
Authorities look for escaped convicts 
ATHENS -The helicopter company offered "escapes ... to idyllic destina­tions." But this wasn't the kind of flight it had in mind. 
For the second time in nearly three years, a notorious bank robber was lifted out of a prison where he was being held along with his Albanian accomplice in a rented chopper amid fire from prison guards. Within hours, hundreds of people had joined more than a dozen fan clubs on Facebook celebrating the pair. 
Police launched a massive manhunt Monday for Vassilis Paleokostas -the robber hailed by some Greeks as a mod­ern-day Robin Hood -and accomplice Alket Rizaj, throwing up roadblocks and checking the abandoned helicopter for fingerprints and DNA. 
Police also announced the arrest of four prison guards and the helicopter pilot, who was found bound, gagged and with a hood over his head. The pilot said he had been hijacked by a man and a woman brandishing an assault rifle and a hand grenade. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Justice Deparbnent seeks new ruling 
RICHMOND -The Department of Justice on Monday asked a full appeals court to rule that the federal government has the power to hold sex offenders in custody indefinitely beyond the end of their prison terms. 
The filing seeks the reversal of a three­judge panel's ruling last month that Congress overstepped its authority when it allowed civil commitment of "sexually dan­gerous" federal inmates. The panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said that the law intrudes on police powers that the Constitution reserves for states, many of which have their own similar statutes. 
In asking the full 4th Circuit to rehear the case, the government argues that it assumes responsibility for inmates in feder­al custody and should be allowed to "create civil commitment procedures for such per­sons to protect the public safety." 
Priest found guilty of embezzelment 
WEST PALM BEACH -A jury convicted a Florida priest on Monday of stealing from his church, but the panel found that he embezzled far less than the $488,000 prosecutors charged. 
The Rev. Francis Guinan, 66, was found guilty of second-degree grand theft of more than $20,000 but less than $100,000 after less than four hours of jury delibera­tions. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Recycling business under investigation 
INDIANAPOLIS -More than 50 Indianapolis police officers will no longer be allowed to work off­duty at a metal recycling business that is under inves­tigation in the alleged purchase of stolen scrap metal. 
Raids on six Indianapolis OmniSource scrap yards Monday marked the culmination of a yearlong inves­tigation. 
'We were as surprised as anyone to learn of this," said OmniSource spokesman Ben Eisbart. "It's some­what ironic because we have over the years cooper­ated with police to train officers in how to identifY stolen scrap material." 
Vatican names new archbishop in NY 
Pope names Milwaukee archbishop Timothy Dolan as Egan's replacement 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The next Roman Catholic archbishop of New York is known as a gentle enforcer of Vatican teaching -a faithful ser­vant of Rome who can dis­arm his critics with his self­deprecating wit, human touch and love of a good cigar. 
Timothy M. Dolan, 59, was named by Pope Benedict XVI on Monday to what is perhaps the most influential post in American Catholicism. At a news con­ference, Dolan pledged "my life, my heart, my soul" to the 2.5 million parishioners of the archdiocese, the nation's second-largest after Los Angeles. 
Dolan, currently the arch­bishop of Milwaukee, will succeed the retiring Cardinal Edward Egan, 76, who has led the Archdiocese of New York for nearly nine years. Dolan will be installed April 15. 
"He's going to defend and promote church orthodoxy," said David Gibson, a former Vatican Radio journalist. "But he's a friendly guy who knows how to translate that into a real kind of pastoral presence." 

Dolan said President College in Rome, consid­said the Rev. Paul Holmes, church teaching against Barack Obama called him ered the West Point for U.S. a Seton Hall University vice abortion and supporting Monday to offer his prayers, priests, where he had stud­president who was chair­the all-male celibate priest­a gesture the archbishop ied for his own ordination. man of preaching under hood. called "extraordinarily gra­"He's a very gregarious, Dolan at the Rome semi­But he also "understands cious." Dolan mentioned the optimistic, hardworking nary from 1999 to 2000. the way to lead people to a conversation during a visit person," said the Rev. Greg "What you see is what you richer, fuller life in Christ is to St. Joseph's Seminary in Apparcel, pastor of the get." persuading them. So pun­suburban Yonkers, and said American church Santa Holmes remembers visit­ishment, vindictiveness or he spoke briefly with Susanna in Rome, who ing Dolan at the archbish­pettiness of any sort is just Obama about the country's knows Dolan from his years op's residence in not part of his nature," said fmancial problems. at the North American Milwaukee in 2005, when the Rev. Steven Avella, a 
Born in St. Louis, Dolan College. "He's very good at Pope John Paul II was close history professor at began his path to the priest­reaching out. I think his to death. Dolan asked his Marquette University in hood as a boy, setting up a optimism and open nature guests whether they mind­Milwaukee. play altar in his basement will serve him well." ed eating off TV trays in A year into Dolan's with cardboard boxes and At the seminary in Rome, the living room so that they tenure in Milwaukee, about sheets. He attended a semi­Dolan was known as a pol­could watch the news. a quarter of his priests, nary prep school in Missouri ished orator who wrote his "He wouldn't let ceremo­including Avella, signed a and was ordained in 1976. sermons and notes in flow­ny stand in the way of public letter saying celibacy In 1985, he earned a doc­ing cursive but rarely had human beings doing the should be optional for torate in church history to consult them. He walked most human things," future Catholic clergy. from Catholic University. the corridors talking to Holmes said. Dolan responded by 
After working as a parish seminarians, and enjoyed Like other bishops of his upholding the teaching of priest and professor, Dolan Jamaican-made Macanudo generation, Dolan is known the church, but also spent seven years as rector cigars in his down time. as a defender of Catholic praised the priests as good of the North American "He is utterly genuine," orthodoxy, affirming men. 

French teen killed in Cairo bombing 
Associated Press industry, which is already suffering At 6:45 p.m., the students gathered 
from the global economic downturn. in the square in front of one of Cairo's 
CAIRO -The French teenagers had The attack shocked the Paris sub­most revered shrines, the Hussein finished a day touring Cairo's 650-urb of Levallois-Perret, hometown of mosque, one of the students told The year-old Khan el-Khalili bazaar, gath­the more than 40 high school stu­Associated Press. ering in its main square to board a dents who were on a tour of Egypt. "That was the last thing, that was bus back to their hotel. Then the blast "We are faced with a dreadful our meeting point," she said, speak­went off. drama," the suburb's mayor Patrick ing outside the hotel, her right leg 
The explosion killed a 17 -year-old Balkany told France's RTL radio on bandaged from her thigh to her toe girl with the group and wounded 24 Monday. because of shrapnel wounds. other people, most of them fellow stu­The teens had spent the day wan­The bandage was stained by blood dents. According to the government dering Khan el-Khalili's labyrinth of around the ankle and the tall, blond account released Monday, a bomb narrow alleys. The market is usually hopped on her good foot to get had been planted underneath a stone packed with tourists and Egyptians around. She declined to give her bench on which the girl was sitting. who buy trinkets from shops selling name or age to avoid publicity. 
The Sunday night blast was the first everything from belly dance outfits to Pressed for details about the bomb­attack in three years targeting for­pharaonic statues, or drink tea and ing, she said, "I have no idea, there eigners in Egypt, and it raised fears of smoke waterpipes at the numerous was nothing but a boom and a light. I a blow to the country's vital tourism cafes. couldn't see anything." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
Violation 
continued from page 1 
found guilty of that particular violation. 
The ticket of Kevin Kimberly, Alexa Doyle, Dylan Fernandez and Rachel Roseberry had two additional allegations brought against them, and was found guilty of both violations, Perez said. 
The allegations caused two special sessions of the Executive Committee of Judicial Cotmcil, one at 7 a.m. Monday, and another at 11:30 p.m. Monday. 
Of the 1292 votes cast in the race, 120 voted to abstain, 511 voted for the ticket led by Kimberly, and 611 voted for the Caitlin Pulte, Henry Shine, Luke Stavole and Tllll Castellini tick­et. 
The Pulte ticket received 47.3 percent of the vote, and the Kimberly ticket received 39.5 percent of the vote. The remaining votes were cast to abstain. 
Perez said because the Kimberly ticket was found guilty of two election violations, the Executive Committee deliv­ered a sanction against the tick­et. Kimberly and his running mates will not be allowed to spend any remaining campaign money between now and the run-off. All tickets are restricted to spending $75, which is pro­vided for the election. 
Perez said the sanction also included restriction of addition­al campaigning to word of mouth and the social network­ing Web site Facebook.com, 
Tipoff 
continued from page 1 
Jumpball, a Jamaican charity that sponsors basketball clin­ics in underprivileged areas. 
"It's a great charity," Wolbeck said. "And it pro­motes self-esteem and confi­dence in the young kids as well as basketball skills." 
The first event of the night featured two open games of Knockout with a prize of free tournament registration for the winner. Senior Alex Klupchak won the first game, and junior Hyan Hornacek took second place. Klupchak said his team hasn't decided on a name, while Hornacek's squad will be called the "Monstars." 
Ackerman, Malloy and Timmermans were up next for a game of "Horse." Despite several high-difficulty shot attempts, including one attempted off-the-wall header, Ackerman was eliminated ftrst. 
"!Malloy and Timmermans] are just fantastic players with a great basketball background and I just came out here to be a part of it," he said. 
Timmermans won the matchup against Malloy by hitting a shot from behind the backboard. Despite the loss, Malloy said he was excited about the upcoming tourna­ment. 
''I've probably played in more Bookstore tournaments than anybody," he said. "At least I'm in the top-10." 
Malloy said his favorite Bookstore Basketball memory is from a tournament during his time as president of the University. His team, "All the President's Men," was playing a first-round game against a team of his niece and her roommates. After letting his where the ticket has a group page titled "Kimberly-Doyle­Roseberry-Fernandez for Junior Class Council." 
Perez said the ticket would not be allowed to use any other method<; of online campaigning. Existing posters can remain posted, he said. 
Perez told The Observer he was not aware if the ticket had funds leftover. 
Perez said he could not reveal the nature of any of the violations or allegations, nor could he reveal who brought the allegations, according to guidelines set forth in the Student Constitution. 
Additionally, Judicial Council president George Chamberlain said the information couldn't be released in order to protect the candidates. 
"It's important that we pro­tect the integrity of the candi­dates," he said. Revealing the nature of the violations or alle­gations could further damage the campaigns, he added. 
The tickets were e-mailed of the decisions of the Executive Committee shortly after 1 a.m. The results of the election ­which were sealed until the allegations were resolved ­were then unsealed. 
Perez e-mailed the results of the election to the tickets around 1:30 a.m. and notified them that the run-off would take place Thursday. 
The run-off election will take place Thursday online from 8 
a.m. to 8 p.m. Students will be notified of election procedures via e-mail. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
niece steal the ball from him, Malloy said he grabbed her sweatshirt as she sprinted down the court. The picture was printed on the front page of The Observer. 
"Nobody knew it was my niece, so it looked like I was mauling some co-ed student," Malloy said with a laugh. 
The final contest of the night was a "Hot Spot" competition fought among about a dozen students for the prize of free tournament registration. Freshman Michael Jackson won the event, draining three straight three-pointers in the fmal seconds to secure victory. 
"I wasn't even thinking," Jackson said. "Just look at the basket, shoot the ball and keep going." 
The Tipoff event was hosted by Notre Dame basketball players Zach llillesland and Hyan Ayers. They are undecid­ed on whether they will partic­ipate in this year's tourna­ment, even though they are eligible as seniors. Hillesland and Ayers said they have enjoyed watching coaches and former players compete in Bookstore games in past years. 
"It's always fun watching the old guys get up and down a lit­tle bit," Ayers said. 
Even as a player who has battled Big East heavyweights, Hillesland said he was impressed with the quality of play in the Bookstore Tournament. 
"There's a lot of good talent from what I've seen," he said. "Especially towards the later rounds, the games are really exciting and entertaining." 
Wolbeck said the Tipoff was a success and the Bookstore Basketball organization would try to build on it in upcoming years. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Both tickets were pleased with the high turnout. 
Election 
"We were happy to see that people got out there an voted for
continued from page 1 
us, but obviously the election's scheduled for Thursday. With not over yet," Tillett said. 1,046 current juniors voting, the Tillett said he needs to con­tickets led by Chris Tillett and vince juniors that their ticket is Kim Kyrouac garnered 42.4 per­the best for the class. cent and 31.7 percent of the "The reason we decided to run votes respectively. Because nei­and what we felt was that this ther ticket received more than year's junior class council kind of 50 percent of the votes, a run-ofT dropped the ball a little bit," election will be held Thursday. Tillett said. 
The ticket of Christina "We wanted to make sure that Harmon, Arthur Kinsey, Jessica our senior year was as best as it Bell and Kim Hamill received could be so we decided to step 166 votes, up and amounting to 15.8 make sure percent of the "The reason we decided that hap-vote. Tillett and his pens."
to run and what we felt 
running mates Joy Kyrouac 
Hwang, Matt was that this year's said her Molloy and Ellie junior class council kind ticket has 
Trousdale received the know­
ofdropped the ball a Litle
444 votes, and how to Kyrouac and run­bit. We wanted to make make the ning mates Jeff sure that our senior year most of the Lakusta, Jordan opportunity
was as best as it could be
Schank and to serve as 
Kathleen Donahue so we decided to step up class lead­
received 332 and make sure that ers. votes. One-hun­"With our
happens.··
dred four juniors, combined or nearly 10 per­experience, cent, voted to Chris Tillett new ideas, abstain. junior and dedica­
Kyrouac, the tion to serve current junior our class we class president, hope our said she was not surprised by ticket will come out on top," she the run-ofT result. said. 
"Especially with three tickets, The run-off election will take we knew it was going to be com­place Thursday in the same petitive," she said. manner as Monday's election. 
Students will be instructed via e­mail to vote online between 8 
a.m. and 8 p.m. 
Sophomore class council 
Catherine Soler and her run­ning mates Jay Kenney, Ben German and Shannon Crotty won the race for sophomore class council with 55.5 percent, amounting to 609 votes of the 1096 cast in the election. 
The other two tickets in the race had 37.5 percent of the vote between them. The C.J. Kelly, Courtney Vargas, Katie Kelliher and Nick Schmidt ticket earned 263 votes, or 23.9 percent, and the Lauren Ruhling, Jay Mathes, Laura Philip and Carl Brophy ticket got 148 votes, or 13.5 per­cent. 
Soler, currently a member of freshman class council, respond­ed to concerns raised by compet­ing tickets that the current fresh­man class council is a "clique." 
"The clique is really a miscon­ception," she said. "It's by now means exclusive or anything like that." 
"One of our main goals is to increase the diversity on the council and hope that all who are interested in class council feel encouraged to apply," she said. 
Soler said she was "happy" with the results. 
"We are looking forward to fol­lowing out the ideas on our plat­form," she said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

1?~te>r~ )'e>U ptJck ye>ur h~. hook your gppoi:otmeot 
Check out our airplane-friendly, travel-sized products! 
Visit us online at bangssalon.com 






Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,114.78 -250.89 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
589 85 3,265 3,298,658,390 
AMEX ·l,29l~2iai 1:;:J<~:\~4a:z:6·· NASDAQ l,J87.72 -53.51 NYSE 4,633.78'1~i:~t70:73 S&P 500 743.33 -26.72 NIKKEI.(Tokyo) 7,207~78 8168:38 FTSE 100 (London) 3,850.73 -38.33 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (SAC} +3.17 +0.12 3.91 ClTIGROUP INC (C) +9.74 +0.19 2.14 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) ·3.58 -2.77 74.65 WELLS FARGO & CO (WFC) +1.10 +0.12 11.03 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.18 +0.005 2.777 13-WEEK BILL +1.89 +0.005 o;no 30-YEAR BOND ·1.12 -0.040 3.525 5-YEAR NOTE +1.95 +0.035 1.833 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.59 38.44 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -7.20 995.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.20 75.65 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 94.7650 EURO 1.2713 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2500 BRITISH POUND 1.4553 
IN BRIEF 
President to slash budget deficit 
WASHINGTON -Urging strict future restraint even as current spending soars, President Barack Obama pledged on Monday to dramatically slash the skyrocketing annual budget deficit as he started to dole out the record $787 billion eco­nomic stimulus package he signed last week. 
"If we confront this crisis without also con­fronting the deficits that helped cause it, we risk sinking into another crisis down the road," the president warned, promising to cut the yearly deficit in half by the end of his four-year term. "We cannot simply spend as we please and defer the consequences." 
He said he would reinstitute a pay-as-you-go rule that calls for spending reductions to match increases and would shun what he said were the past few years' "casual dishonesty of hiding irre­sponsible spending with clever accounting tricks." He called the long-term solvency of Sucial Security "the single most pressing fiscal chal­lenge we face by far" and said reforming health care, including burgeoning entitlement pro­grams, was a huge priority. 
Fmancier selected to assist Geithner 
WASHINGTON -The White House selected a Wall Street financier on Monday to advise Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner on the restructuring of General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC. 
Steven Rattner, co-founder of Quadrangle Group LLC, will serve as counselor to Geithner, who is leading an auto industry task force charged with shaping the future ofGM and Chrysler. 
The White House said in a statement that Rattner would advise Geithner "on a variety of economic and financial matters, and will lead the Treasury's efforts with regard to the automobile sector." 
Rattner had been a leading candidate to become the so-called "car czar." But President Barack Obama decided instead to create a task force led by Geithner and White House economic aide Larry Summers to review $17.4 billion in federal loans to GM and Chrysler and their requests for billions more in aid. 
Quadrangle Group said Monday that Rattner was leaving his role as managing principal of the firm to take the Treasury position. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Official predicts Locke as next pick 
Washington governor likely Obama's third choice for Commerce secretary 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Barack Obama's 
likely third pick for 
Commerce secretary is for­
mer Washington Gov. Gary 
Locke, a senior adminis­
tration official said 
Monday. 
Locke, a Democrat, was the nation's first Chinese­American governor when he served two terms in the Washington statehouse from 1997 to 2005. 
Obama's expected choice of Locke arose less than two weeks after his most recent pick, Republican Sen. Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, backed out. Just over a week after Obama named him and he accepted, Gregg cited "irresolvable conflicts" with the policies of the Democratic president. 
Tho official spoke on condition of anonymity because the announcement has not yet been made. 
Obama originally gave the post, which requires Senate confirmation. to New Mexico Gov. Bill Hichardson. He withdrew in January, before Obama took oflice, after the disclo­sure that a grand jury is investigating allegations of wrongdoing in the award­ing of contracts in his state. 

The Commerce post is been top news in large efforts, Obama drew hard­tionships with questioned typically not one of the part because it has been ly any GOP support for his Clinton donors. But the more high-profile jobs in accompanied by other main legislative priority, committee subsequently any administration. The Cabinet troubles. He still the stimulus package. said the deposition pro­head of the department does not have a Health and Locke, 59, was born into duced no evidence that oversees agencies respon­Human Services secretary, an immigrant family and Locke knowingly accepted sible for the once-a-decade either. Former Senate lived in a Seattle public illegal campaign donations. census, for oceans policy Democratic leader Tom housing project until he Locke denied any wrong­and for many aspects of Daschle withdrew his nom­was 6. He graduated from doing, and he subsequently international trade, among ination for that post amid a Yale University, which he returned some checks tied other things. tax controversy. attended with a combina­to people implicated in the 
The administration The loss of Gregg for the tion of scholarships and fundraising scandal, recently took steps to Commerce job also high­financial aid, and Boston including $750 from John assert greater White House lighted the difficulty University Law SchooL Huang. The former control over the census. Obama has had reaching Locke was briefly linked Commerce Department The outcome of the cemius out to Republicans. Gregg to the scandal over foreign oflicial was the Democratic has deep political implica­would have been one of contributions to President Party's chief fund raiser for tions, since congressional three Republicans Obama Bill Clinton's 1996 cam­the Asian-American popu­districts are drawn on the had put in his Cabinet to paign. In July 1998, he lation in the 1996 elec­basis of population. emphasize his campaign gave a deposition to the tions, and he became one 
But in Obama's adminis­pledge that he would be an House Committee on of the central figures in the tration, the delay in getting agent of bipartisan change. Government Reform and national Democratic Party a Commerce secretary has Despite those and other Oversight about his rela-fundraising scandaL 

Government expands b~ ownership 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The govern­ment on Monday moved toward dramatically expanding its owner­ship stakes in the nation's banks ­with Citigroup, the struggling titan of the industry, apparently at the top of the list. 
Wall Street responded as it has with the rollout of almost every other plan to fix the financial cri­sis, taking a big drop and sending the Dow Jones industrials to its lowest level in a dozen years. 
The Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulators said they could convert the government's stock in the banks from preferred shares to common shares. 
The strategy, which could be applied retroactively to banks that 
received money in the first incar­
nation of the bailout, carries risks. 
But it avoids, at least for now, hav­
ing to tap more taxpayer money or 
resort to full-fledged nationaliza­
tion. 
Citigroup Inc. -perhaps the 
biggest name in American banking 
-has approached the regulators 
about ways the government could 
help strengthen the bank, includ­
ing the stock conversion plan, 
according to people familiar with 
the discussions. They spoke on 
condition of anonymity because 
they are not authorized to speak 
on behalf of the government or the 
company. A Citigroup spokesman 
declined comment. 
The stock conversion could be 
available for other banks as well, 
the same sources said. , Regulators, reinforcing what the White House has said, insisted that keeping banks private is a priority. But fe.deral officials are walking a difficult line because the govern­ment could still have huge stakes i11 banks. 

Citigroup already has received $45 billion in bailout money, plus guarantees to cover losses on hun­dreds of billions of dollars in risky investments. 
"What we are doing·here is we're creeping our way toward national­ization," said Terry Connelly, dean of Golden Gate University's Ageno School of Business in San Francisco. 
The conversion plan would give the government greater flexibility in dealing with ailing banks. It would give the government voting shares, and therefore more say in a bank's operations. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

page 8 Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

Catholics and euthanasia 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
Ass-f. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS ·EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(57 4) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631c8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and riot necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available tq aU readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Leners ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
TheOhscrv.tr (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday rhrough Frid.1y CJI:ttp! during exam :nut vacation periods. A subscription ru 11tc~ L)b~t'rvt:r is. $1UO tOr <m~· ;tc:~dcruk ~r; $5-S for one scmc:st.:r. 
Tht: Observer is published at· POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Send address corrections ru: 
Nottt: Dame. IN 46556-0n9 The Observer 
Periodical ~mage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Boxn9 and additional mailing olliccs, 024 Souch Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46-"j)6-0779 
Thc Obser'ver is a member of tht: As.~oclat~-d Pre.%. All rtptoduction rights 1\te reserved. 
Grandma has a problem. The Feds, it appears, are about to ration her health care. That could turn out her lights. The Obama stimulus package creates a new bureaucracy under a National 
Coordinator for Health Information Technology. [Sees. 3000-3018.] The Coordinator is mandated to devel­op an infrastruc­ture that "reduces health care costs 

resulting from inef-Charles E. Rice ficiency [and] inap­propriate care .... " 
Right or
[Sec. 3001(b)(3).] 
Wrong?
Medicare currently pays for treatments that are safe and effective. The stimulus opens the door to a cost-efl'ectiveness stan­dard pursuant to guidelines set by the bureaucracy. Under such a standard the availability of care could turn on Grandma's age, her productivity, etc. The recession will intensifY pressure to reduce medical spending on non-productive por­sons. In that game a 75 year-old woman seeking a substantial medical procedure will be a predictable loser. 
A later column will discuss the stimulus in detail. For now, let's ask: II' Grandma is denied a needed operation and is home in bed with no hope of recovery, can you put her out of her misery? If she is on a feed­ing tube, can you withdraw it? Suppose she wants to die? The stimulus provides an added reason to address these issues, but they already arise with patients of all ages who are incurable, incompetent, or both. 
The legal and moral principles are clear. A competent adult has the legal right to rel'use any and all medical treatment, including the right to refuse food and water whether naturally or artificially pro­vided. If a patient is incompetent, the law permits withholding of treatment, induct­ing food and water, based on the patient's intent previously expressed in an advance directive or otherwise, or based on his health care agent's opinion that the patient would want such withdrawal or, in some states, that it would be in his best interest. 
The moral principles are dearly present­ed in Catholic teaching. First, you never have the right intentionally to kill the patient. "[T]he direct and voluntary killing of an innocent human being is always gravely immoral." Evangelium Vitae (EV), 
57. This includes euthanasia, "an act or omission which, of itself or by intention, causes death in order to eliminate suffer­ing." Catechism (CCC), 2277. The Catechism calls it "murder." 
With respect to medical treatments, we have a duty to use all ordinary and propor­tionate means to preserve our own lives and the lives of those in our care. See CCC, 2276-79. "[M]edieal procedures that are "burdensome, dangerous, extraordinary or disproportionate" are not morally oblig­atory. CCC, 2278. 
The main issues involve palliative care and the withdrawal of nutrition and hydra­tion. In Vacco v. Quill, in 1997, the Supreme Court said a State "may permit palliative care" ol'patients to relieve their pain, even though it "may have the fore­seen but unintended 'double effect' of has­tening the patient's death." According to Catholic teaching, palliative care may be so administered to relieve pain even though it hastens the unintended death of the patient. But it cannot be used with the intent to kill the patient. The law, however, cannot ordinarily determine whether the palliative care was given to relieve pain or to cause death. Where the family and caregivers a1:,rree that it is time for the patient to die, the administration of mor­phine or other palliatives can be a mode of homieidn elli~ctively beyond the reach of the law. 
On nutrition and hydration, if a patient refuses lillld and water with the intent to die, it is a form ol' suicide which "is always as morally objectionable as murder." EV. 66. 
In the Terri Schiavo ease, Judge Greer ordered, and not merely authorized, Michael Schiavo to remove not only the li.~eding tube but all forms of "nutrition and hydration" from his wife. The only reason you heard about Terri Schiavo was because the family members disagreed. When the family and caregivers agree that the patient should die, he can be legally executed by withdrawal of l'ood and water. There arn no statistics but it is fair to assume that such executions are numer­ous and perhaps routine. 
The Congregation for the Doctrine ol' the Faith (CDF), with the approval of Pope Benedi~;t XVI, issued a statement on August 1, 2007 (L'Osservatore Romano (English), Sept. 19, 2007) on "the nutrition and hydration of patients in ... a 'vegeta­tive state."' The principles apply to all patients in whatever condition. The CDF posod and answered two questions: 
"First question: Is the administration of food and water (whether by natural or artificial means) to a patient in a 'vegeta­tive state' morally obligatory except when they cannot be assimilated by the patient's body or cannot be administered to the patient without causing significant physical discomfort? 

"Hesponse: Yes. The administration of liJOd and water even by artificial means is, in principle, an ordinary and proportionate means of preserving life. It is therefore obligatory to the extent to which, and for as long as, it is shown to accomplish its proper finality, which is the hydration and nourishment of the patient. In this way suflering and death by starvation and dehydration are prevented. 
"Second question: When nutrition and hydration are being supplied by artificial means to a patient in a 'permanent vegeta­tive state' may they be discontinued when competent physicians judge with moral certainty that the patient will never recov­
. ?

er consciOusness. 
"Hesponse: No. A patient in a 'perma­nent vegetative state' is a person with fun­damental human dignity and must, there­fore, receive ordinary and proportionate care which indudes. in principle, the administration of food q.nd water even by artificial means." 
A feeding tube is not intended to cure the cancer or other disease. Its purpose is nourishment and the prevention of suffer­ing from hunger and thirst. Grandma's !'ending tube may morally be removed only when she cannot assimilate the food and water or when it is disproportionately painful and the removal is intended only to relieve the pain, with the implicit intent to replace it as soon as it can be done without causing such pain. One could apparently also be justified in removing the tube in the closing minutes before death when the lack of food and water will not cause dis­comfort and will not contribute to the death, subject to the duty to put it back if the expected death does not occur. The fact Grandma is incurable or will never recover consciousness does not justifY starving or dehydrating her to death. To remove a feeding tube with the intent to end Grandma's life is "murder." CCC, 2277. 
Whatever President Obama does to ration health care, each of us ought to be awan1 of' the principles that govern our own care and the care of those for whom we are responsible. 
Professor Emeritus Charles E. Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at rice.J@nd.edu or (.574) 633-441.5. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Liz Harter Fran Tolan Robert Singer Alex Barker Are you giving something up for Lent? 
Liz O'Donnell Douglas Farmer Graphics Scene 
Yes
Madeline Nies Analise Lipari 
No
Viewpoint I'm not Catholic 
Lauren Brauweiler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can tell a lot about afellow's character. by_ his wa!J. of eatingJeUybeans. 
Ronald Reagan 40th president of the U.S. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Tuesday, February 24~ 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dude, -where's tny freedotn? 

Insulated in our Notre Dame bubble, we have been argu­ing over whether we should condemn Michael Phelps for taking bong rips, or ifa boycott of Subway is more bologna than is fit t6 consume. However, I feel that we are missing out on a far more important story. 
Geert Wilders, a freely and democratically elected mem­ber of Dutch parliament was invited to the British House of Lords to screen his controversial, anti-Islamic film Fitna (available on YouTube) and to discuss his views with his hosts. On February 11, Wilders was detained when his flight landed at Heathrow Airport and immediately sent back to the Netherlands due to a ban by the British Home Offic~. which claimed that his presence would "threaten communi­ty harmony and therefore public security in the U.K." Perhaps this view was reached in part after Lord Nazir Ahmed, the only Muslim member ofthe House of Lords, threatened to mobilize 10,000 Muslims to prevent Wilders from entering the House. Ahmed quickly turned to the Pakistani press to promote this "victory for the Muslim com­munity." 
It seems strange that a victory for any community would come after a defeat for freedom of speech, about which he said, "Freedom of speech is alright so long as it doesn't come at my expense." In the words ofNoam Chomsky, "If we don't believe in freedom of expression for people we despise, we don't believe in it at all." Unsurprisingly, there has been no similar move to protect "community harmony" by stopping extremists who actually promise violence in the streets of London, and other European capitals, commonly chanting such fun phrases as: "Bomb, bomb (country of choice)" and 
Responsible potheads 

As a reader with an open mind, I'd like to voice some of the concerns that I have with Daniel Tostado's article "'Reefer Madness' is insalubri­ous" (Feb. 20th). There seems to be a misconcep­tion between an individual that is irresponsible and an individual that is a pothead. 
Let's clarify some issues: a father that can't quit smoking weed -irresponsible; a person that gets high -pothead; a friend that continually tries to rob a liquor store-irresponsible (and stupid); a person that smokes weed -pothead. This last one is a little confusing so try to stay with me: a person that develops 'amotivational syndrome' and loses interest in everyday activi­ties because of a drug they are choosing to do ­irresponsible; a person that goes to class, main­tains healthy relationships, is active in sports, and chooses to smoke marijuana in their free time ­a responsible pothead. 
I know, it is difficult to comprehend such an oxymoronic statement -"A responsible pothead? Yeah right, get real." Careful though, we wouldn't want to form any prejudices. It would be wrong · to categorize all potheads as drug addicts, crimi­nals, and misfits. Potheads are people that like to smoke weed and get high. Sometimes they will even go to a movie, or out to eat. Maybe they will just sit around and watch T.V., or listen to music. Or (and I know this might be surprising) they 
might even do something productive. You·see, just because a person is a pothead doesn't mean that they are going to fail out of 
· school, let down their family, lose all their friends, and repeatedly try to rob a liquor store (or any other business venue for that matter). It might even be possible that a person who smokes grass could do something as extraordinary as be admitted to Notre Dame! Here we go again­"Haha, yeah right. Yeah right! Like their half­baked ideas and amotivation would meet the standards of this University!" False. Some responsible people can do bizarre things like smoke weed and not be academically, socially, and physically impaired. Dare I say it? Yes. You even go to school with some of these people -and they are just as smart, suave, and spiritual as you are. Just like no one ever hears about the functioning alcoholic, no one ever hears about the functioning pothead, but they do exist. So, moving forward, let's refrain from using examples of irresponsible individuals as a stan­dard to measure an entire group of people ­now that's a half-baked idea. ~ 
Michael Hubert freshman Dillon Feb. 16 

Somewhere along the way I actually learned the les­son we have all heard before: If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all. And yet, we live in the age of JuicyCampus, or CollegeACB or whatever. And of letters of attack on one another in the form of letters to the editor. And of rumors. 
I could write about the moral fiber I thought this uni­versity was made of, how its students would rise above these actions, how it breaks my heart to see bad things happen to good people. I could write about the sinful "USA you will pay, the mujaheddin are on their way." So much for the dialogue promised by multiculturalism and political-correctness. 
European politicians have shown that not only are they too afraid to speak out on the increasing crisis around them, but that they would gladly trample such hallowed concepts as freedom of speech and expression to avoid upsetting an exploding Muslim electorate. The precedent set is a grim one indeed, but it is important to understand, as it just may enter this bubble of ours sooner than we think. 
Jay Rowley sophomore Morrissey Feb. 22 

Superpovver showdovvn 
In response to Jonathan Miller's Feb. 18th argument that telekinesis is irrefutably the superior superpower, I would like to submit my opinion that the ability to control time is far superior to any other power (including telekinesis). ·1 feel that your portrayal of telekinesis is rather extreme. The greatest flaw of your argument is the magnitude of the powers described. Moving objects with your mind must require knowl­edge of each atom and what is connected to it. Your talk of moving objects (specifically, removing your foe's organs) begins to sound not like telekinesis and more like teleportation. 
What I feel is the greatest flaw of your argument, however, is your omission of no doubt one of the greatest possible powers, time control. It may simply be your preference to move objects rather than stop time, but, just like telekinesis, time control can mimic-other less worthy pow­ers. Super speed can be mimicked by starting and stopping time rapidly while you move, strength by stopping time while you work out, and invisibility by simply stopping time while you perform whatever mali­cious deeds you like. As for taking down bad guys, the ability to stop time would also stop people in the middle of their motions. This would make epic battles between nemeses much less epic for you, but victory would no doubt be assured. 
I know that every person is entitled to his opiniOn, and that the argu­ment between all the superpowers will not be resolved by words; so, Jonathan, once we both get our wishes, I'll meet you out in Stepan Fields to settle this once and for all. 
Oliver Chmell freshman Morrissey Feb. 23 
School of gossip 
nature of slander (Lev. 19: 16). Whatever works for you. Here's what has seemed to resonate among all people I have known, Domers, Catholics, agnostics, whatever. 
Next time you have some awful thing to say about a person, without knowing them truly and deeply, think about that person hearing or reading those words. See that person huddled into a corner of his or her loft, cry­ing. See that person holding the rope with which they plan on using to commit suicide. Because, that dramatic or not, do you want to risk your words being the ones that pushed that person over the edge? So be nice to one another. Or at least be neutral. Think about where you heard things before you tell your roommate, best 

•friend, and the kid who sits next to the kid who sits next to you. 
Kyle Rocca 
senior 
offcampus Feb. 23 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 10 
Tuesday, February 24, 2009 

"DOLLHOUSE"SHOWS PROMISE 
Dollhouse, Adelle DeWitt. Fran Kranz By CAITLIN FERRARO and Amy Acker round out the important Scene Writer members of the Dollhouse as a memory­
This past Friday the 13th was about wiping technician and doctor for the more than bad luck, black cats and saw­Actives, respectively. wielding killers. It Wcis also the premiere In a parallel storyline, FBI Agent Paul of Joss Whedon's new science fiction Ballard (Tahmoh Penikett, "Battlestar series, Fox's "Dollhouse." Galactica") has been assigned to uncover 
Whedon is best known as the creator of information on the super secretive and critically acclaimed sci-fi shows such as elite Dollhouse. Unfortunately, he is met "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," "Angel" and with criticism from co-workers who think "Firefly." Whedon created this new he is crazy and accuse him of imposing series, and also wrote and directed the on other investigations. The episode first episode. alludes that his obsession with discover­
The premiere, entitled "Ghost," exam­ing the truth has destroyed his marriage, ined the Dollhouse, a secretive and illegal and may lead to the demise of his career. place where people can go to make their Dushku is a great actress, and she is desires come true. The clients of the the core of the show. The birth of Dollhouse must have the right connections "Dollhouse" came out of a conversation and enough money to hire "Actives," peo­Dushku had with Whedon about the level ple who have been programmed to fulfill of range an actress needs to fill different their needs. roles. "Dollhouse" definitely offers 
These Actives seem to have been cho­Dushku the opportunity to demonstrate sen to surrender their bodies and minds her range as she plays multiple personal­to the Dollhouse. The first minutes of the ities in a single episode. premiere introduce Echo (Eliza Dushku, There is also great potential for "Buffy"), an "Active" who seems less Langdon to be an interesting character. than thrilled for her five-year stay in the Viewers can feel his sense of compassion Dollhouse. and a true understanding of right and 
The opening scene shows Echo being wrong. The second episode of the show, gently coerced by a character named "The Target," reveals how Langdon Adelle DeWitt (Olivia Williams) to sign a came to be a handler at the Dollhouse contract that will take care of the 'conse­when an Active named Alpha went on quences' for her actions. the fritz and killed several people. It also 
We do know that Echo's real name is further illustrates his bond with Echo. Caroline; unfortunately we do not know The premiere of "Dollhouse" is a prom­much else, including what actions got ising one, as it offers a balance of action her to the Dollhouse in the first place, and thought-provoking ethical questions. leaving viewers wondering what her While the first half drags a bit, the sec­backstory may be. ond half of the episode picks up and 
Echo can be imprinted with any per­shows great potential. sonality, skill, or muscle memory to be But for this show to work, viewers whatever the clients want, including the need more information. Who was Echo perfect lover, a spy or an assassin. But before the Dollhouse? Who is the naked when the job is done, their memory is man in the last five minutes of the wiped away and they forget everything. episode, sitting among dead bodies and 
However, something is 'wrong' with watching home videos of Echo before she Echo. As the first episode progresses, it became an active? And will his sending seems clear that she is remembering of Echo's photo to Agent Ballard in an flashes of the other lives she has lived, enveloped marked 'keep looking' force a and is increasingly curious about her meeting between Echo and the rogue real identity. cop? We will have to wait until next 
Echo's handler, Boyd Langton (Harry J. Friday to find out. Lennix), seems to be conflicted about his "Dollhouse" airs on Fox Fridays at 9 role in the Dollhouse. As an ex-cop, he p.m. seems genuinely invested in her well being. Already in the premiere episode, Contact Caitlin Ferraro at he comes in conflict with the boss of the cferrar1@nd.edu 

Image courtesy of photobucket.com Joss Whedon, left, directs Fran Kranz and Eliza Dushku in an episode of "Dollhouse." The show airs on Fox Fridays at 9 p.m. 
Joss WHEDON: THERE AND BACK AGAIN 
Thus 2009's "Dollhouse" was born. 
By ELLIE HALL 

T.Re Writers Guild of America (WGA) Scene Wrirer 
strike delayed the show's production and 
Joss Whedon's recent re-emergence into in his spare time, Whedon created the primetime after a five-year hiatus has Internet musical, "Dr. Horrible's Singalong intrigued television viewers. Why? This Blog." The short series premiered online writer/director/producer has discovered in 2008 to critical interest and acclaim. the elusive balance between cult icon and Fans of Whedon's work -known alter­culturally relevant, critically acclaimed nately as Whedonites, Whedonphiles, or. creator. Browncoats -have rightfully earned 
The latest in a long line of television their place alongside the Trekkies and scribes, Joss Whedon has been described other fan bases. Whedonesque.com, the as the world's first third-generation TV Joss Whedon weblog, keeps such diehard writer (grandfather John Whedon wrote fans up to date with all developments in for earlier sitcoms, such as "The Donna the "Whedonverse," and those who con­Reed Show," and father Tom Whedon gregate at this site make up one of the wrote for shows such as "The Golden most organized and powerful fan bases on Girls" and "The Electric Company"). A the Internet. graduate of Wesleyan University, Whedon In examining his 20-odd years as an moved .to Los Angeles after college and Emmy-nominated television writer, cer­worked as a writer on "Roseanne" for sev­tain themes emerge from Whedon's work. eral years, gaining a reputation as a tal­First, all Joss Whedon shows typically deal ented script doctor for his side work on with themes of science fiction and the films like 1995's "Speed." supernatural, and nearly always feature 
Whedon then conceived the idea for strong, empowered women. He is often "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and wrote a considered one of the TV's foremost femi­screenplay based on it, but his creative nist writers. Whedon's quick, witty and differences with the film's director stylized speech forms and their influence doomed the project to poor critical and on modern slang have been the subject of audience reception upon its 1992 release. academic study. 
After receiving an Oscar nomination for And, as any Whedonite will tell you, he best screenplay as part of the "Toy Story" is infamous for killing off beloved charac­scriptwriting team, Whedon surprised ters in order to keep plots interesting and Hollywood by turning away from movies audiences guessing. and adapting "Buffy" into a successful tel­Whedon's future in TV depends on the evision series. "Buffy" would enjoy a fate of "Dollhouse," his most recent proj­seven-year run and launch a spin-off, ect. If the show prospers, audiences may "Angel," which would run for five years. be treated to years of witty humor and 
In 2002, Whedon created a TV show set captivating plot twists. in the distant future, a "space western," With "Dollhouse" struggling to attract which became the short-lived but much an audience in its early weeks and rumors mourned "Firefly." Fox struggled with of problems with Fox, however, it seems Whedon over the show's themes and Whedon will follow through on his threat direction, and the program was cancelled to abandon the small screen for good. He after 11 episodes despite overwhelming, has announced plans to develop online organized fan support for the show. projects, such web series in the vein of 
Banking on this fan base and bitterly "Dr. Horrible." disappointed at the death of "Firefly," Tune in to "Dollhouse" on Fox at 9 p.m. Whedon penned the script for a feature Friday, or set your TiVos and DVRs to film based on the series. That film, record the show. Whedon is one of the "Serenity," was released in 2005. foremost creators of television program­
Whedon went on to devote himself to ming today, and "Dollhouse" will be side projects, such as the "Buffy" and remembered long after shows like "Angel" comic books, as well as a well­"America's Next Top Model" and received arc writing for the "X-Men" "Dancing With the Stars" have faded comic book series, until "Buffy" alum from the airwaves. Eliza Dushku convinced him to return to television. Contact Ellie Hall at ehall4@nd.edu 

Image courtesy of collider.com Writer-director Joss Whedon, third from left, poses with the cast of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer." Whedon's latest television project is "Dollhouse." 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
page 11 


There is a great mother load of music out there. Everything exists. And because of the Internet, we can find it all, listen to it all, download it all and love it all. Literally millions of songs are at our finger-· . tips, if not billions. Stephame 
From the highly DePrez ranked iTunes top-Assistant pers to the crappy Scene Editor 
Garage Band upload on your cousin's music MySpace, music is being heard, inter­preted, reinvented and produced at a rate so rapid there is no guarantee any artist will survive more than a few weeks, or months if they are lucky. 
And if you miss an artist, too bad, because they're lost forever in the void of "Once Was Popular." 
With so many options, it's daunting to go fishing for anything new. We cling to iTunes charts and the radio to tell us what's good, because we haven't got a snowball's chance in Miami at finding it ourselves. At least, this is the thought of the music muggle. 
This means that even though the indie artist is free to write, record and produce their own full album, if they haven't got a way to market it to the masses, then their music is moot. It takes the music geek, the guru, to fish out new music, and then popularize it through blogs, file sharing, mixes and worcf'of mouth. Then, radios begin to pick it up and the ears at Spin Magazine perk up minutes before it bursts onto the scene. They get one to three hits on iTunes, perhaps a full album of popularity, some placement in ads and on "Gossip Girl," .and then begin to be dubbed "Known Music." 
This is the kiss of death. No one real­ly wants.to listen to "Known Music." It isn't popular enough to be Taylor Swift-ing its way into the hands and iPods of the muggles, but it is no longer indie-chic, and therefore the music geeks and tiber nerds won't touch it. And then, three years later, it gets dumped on Rolling Stone. 
Every so often, a band fished frorri the obscurity of its MySpace page will strike a real chord -or at least one that sounds different -and it will gain a true following of diehards. 
These are the bands that have stay­ing power, the ones that, in the end, really matter. 
The corporate system plucks unsus­pecting youngsters from their festering musical obscurity, dresses them up, tells them they're rock stars and spoon feeds them to the music muggles through movies, television and the radio. They play huge release concerts at Virgin and are begged to put their name on a fashion label. The muggles eat it up. The gurus scoff. 
The point, though, is that there is way too much music out there for all of this to matter. Even for most of it to matter. 
Music has one major flaw: it requires time. You need three minutes to listen to a song. You need 45 minutes to appreciate an album. And the only way to find music is to listen to it. We sim­ply cannot love that much music. There is a limit to what can be popular, because we can't listen to everything that "Should Be Popular." Even if every radio station everywhere never repeat­ed a song, we wouldn't be able to get through it all. 
No one would go for that anyway, because the beauty of music is falling in love with it, and a lot of times it isn't love at first sight. We need to sit with music, to live with it, to associate memories with it in order to claim it. And in the end, that's all we really want to do. 
Muggle or guru, we want music that's our own. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd. edu 


Christian Finnegan -a comedian best known for his work on VH1 's "Best Week Ever," stand-up specials on Comedy Central, and his role as "Chad," the lone white roommate on "The Chappelle Show" skit "Mad 
Declan Sullivan 
Real World" ­performed to a 
Scene Writer 
packed room Friday night at Legends. Before going on stage, how­ever, he gave 10 minutes of his time to a couple of plucky, freshman Observer reporters for a quick interview: I hap­pened to be one of them. 
He was sitting at a table talking to a friend, but when he saw us, he stood up and gave us a warm smile. We told him both our names, and immediately the butterflies went away. He was down-to-earth, and seemed as excited to be interviewed, as we were to inter­view him. 
Shane, my fellow 

reporter, made the first "Really, you're between elation and move. "So, there's a always up and despair," Finnegan said, at question I've been least until gradation.
coming as

dying to ask you," he "Then you realize that sort said, using his best a comedian. " of nut-punch of life." Dave Chappelle voice. Different rooms also call "What's the square root for adjustments to the
Christian Finnegan

of this apartment?" routine. For example, in 
Stand-up Comedian 
Christian's attitude immediately changed from friendly to jokingly offended: "What am I supposed to say to that?" 
Shane said he meant it only as an icebreaker, to which Finnegan responded, "I feel like we had a great rapport going, and then you go and use that icebreaker ... I feel like it cre­ated more ice between us." After berating us for a while longer, he paused and said, with the conviction of a man under oath, "but seriously, the answer is 14." 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

"If you're not bombing on a semi­regular basis, you're not trying hard enough as a comedian," he said. 
Comedy is all about finding new material, and the only way to do that is to go out on a limb at times. Still, this doesn't make bombing any easier. Christian drew the allusion to "eating an unholy d*ck" before he remem­bered he was at a Catholic school, and promptly amended the statement to "a holy d*ck." 
When asked about touring through colleges, Christian said he loved it. Although, he did say his material does have to be adjusted for college crowds. 
"Different jokes apply to different crowds," he said, explaining he's not going to tell jokes about crappy jobs and marriage to a bunch of college kids. 
Students have yet to experience the 
slower flow of life after 
school. "They bounce 
southern cities like 

Atlanta or Houston, Finnegan noted some confusion on the part of his audience. 
"The audience will think I am gay for the first 30 seconds of a show," he said. He's not gay-he's married­and he isn't overly "feminine." But he noted that to his audiences, what's "manly in New York" is "gay" in a Texas comedy club. 
Finnegan will, however, joke about this to win over the crowd. As a come­dian, he prides himself 
We soon began talking for being able to play in 
As a comedian,

about his career as a any room, and usually comedian -what it's [Finnegan] prides gets the audience on his like to tell jokes for a side. It is this talent that
himselfon being able 

living, have a special on has allowed him to get
to play in any room, 

"Comedy Central such diverse gigs as "The Presents," make a com­and usually gets the Chappelle Show" and edy album, etc. He said "Best Week Ever." 
audience on his side. 

he felt extremely lucky At this point, the stage 
about being able to do stand up for a living, but that it was not the most stable field of work. 
"Really, you're always up and com­ing as a comedian," Finnegan said. 
The life of a working comedian is apparently not as glamorous as many of us would think. The majority of comedians cannot make their living alone from stand-up: the day after his first Comedy Central special aired, Finnegan still had to go to work at his office job. 
Once you make it as a comedian, however, it's still not easy. The majori­ty of money does not come from TV appearances, but from touring. 
"We're kind of like musicians," Finnegan said. "Most of [the money] 
. comes from ticket sales." But even touring is not easy, especially for comedians. Money is less abundant than it is for musicians, and the chance of bombing a show is a much, much higher. Finnegan, however, views bombing as good thing. 

director came in; Finnegan was on in 10 minutes, and we needed to wrap it up. He thanked us for coming, said he hoped he'd try to see us after the show, and gave us both handshakes. 
Right before we left, however, there was one question I wanted to know: Who and what were the inspirations , for his comedy? 
Finnegan said he actually did not draw from other comedians that much. Instead, he was inspired more by gen-· res of entertainment, like music. Even watching a friend's professional dance troupe would feed his muse. 
For me, this last comment was a fas­cinating look into how a comedian cre­ates his routine. It also explained some of the confusion on the part of his southern fans. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. · 
Contact Declan Sullivan at dsulli7@nd. edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Knight~ suspended one game for comments 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The Big 12 Conference suspend­ed Texas Tech coach Pat Knight for one game on Monday for complaining about the officials after a loss to Texas A&M. 
Knight received a technical foul in the second half of the 79-73 loss on Saturday for arguing a foul call and com­plained about the officials after the game 
the Big 12 in 2007 for his actions following losses. 
Pat Knight didn't show any of his father's fiery demeanor after taking over the team halfway through last season, choosing to remain calm in tight situa­tions. 
That has changed over the past few weeks. With his team struggling-12-15 overall, 2-10 in conference -Knight has become frus­
trated with the 

to reporters, saying he did­n't care what  "! know the rules but sometimes you  officiating, leading to two outbursts in  
the Big thought. The son  12 of  have to lay on a grenade to get your  the past three weeks. The first time  
Bob Knight, Pat  point across."  came  following  
Knight also was  a  loss  to  
publicly repri­manded by the Big 12 earlier  Pat Knight Red Raiders coach  Nebraska on Jan. 31. Unhappy with  
this month for  a foul called on  

being ejected after running Alan Voskuil, Knight was onto the court twice to argue ejected for running onto the a foul call in a game against court to argue with the offi­Nebraska. cials. A few moments later, 
Assistant coach Stew he returned to the floor to Robinson will replace Knight continue arguing, leading to for Wednesday's game a public reprimand from the against Texas. conference two days later. 
"I wasn't surprised Big 12 commissioner Dan because I broke a rule," Beebe didn't give Knight a Knight said during the Big harsh penalty after that out­12 coaches teleconference burst because of his "past on Monday. "I know the exemplary behavior." This rules, but sometimes you time, Beebe said he was dis­have to lay on a grenade to appointed that Knight had get your point across." committed a violation so 
In 61f2 seasons at Texas soon after the first one. Tech, Bob Knight received "I was extremely lenient in two public reprimands from that case and chose not to 

suspend Coach Knight," Beebe said in a written statement. "The nature and extent of his comments after the Texas A&M game, and his callous attitude in light of his commitment to me to abide by the rules, require a serious penalty." 
Knight became increasing­ly frustrated with the offici­ating during Saturday's home loss to the rival Aggies, a physical game that 
featured 56 combined fouls. lie was hit with a technical foul in the second half for arguing a call against John Roberson and considered getting thrown out of the game to prove a point. 
Knight thought better of it and instead decided to com­plain to the media after a game in which four of his players fouled out and his team was outshot 51-22 at the free-throw line. 
"I was sitting there with my staff and the way things were going, I asked them if I needed to get thrown out of this game. We decided it was best not to do that twice," he said. "I already made my point once doing it that way, so the only way to make a point and get it out there was to bring it up in the press conference knowing that I was-probably going to get fined or suspended." 
MLB 

Bonds' trainer summoned by judge in federal perjury trial 
2003 raid at the Bay Area Anderson's attorney, Mark Defense lawyers argued that jurors -and asked his inten­
Associated Press 
Laboratory Co-Operative, Geragos, were not immediate­would be unfair to Bonds, tions again. If he refuses to 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry which was at the center of the ly returned. who owns the major league testify at the point, he may be Bonds' personal trainer was steroids probe. The trainer has already record for home runs with jailed. ordered Monday to appear The judge has barred prose­spent a year in prison on a 762. Federal prosecutors are dis­before a federal judge and say cutors from showing the jury contempt of court charge for Illston's decision to hold a cussing whether to appeal the whether he'll break his the test results because refusing to testify about separate hearing with judge's decision to bar the silence and testify at the slug­Anderson is refusing to testi­Bonds to a 2006 grand jury. Anderson before trial, sched­three steroids tests from ger's perjury trial. fy. Anderson is alleged to He also declined to discuss his uled to begin next Monday, being introduced at trial. 
U.S. District Judge Susan have collected the urine sam­relationship with Bonds when will keep that drama away They have until the first juror Illston summoned Greg· ples for drug testing at the asked by federal agents dur­from jurors. is seated -probably on Anderson for the unusual lab. Without his testimony ing a September 2003 raid of Prosecutors and Bonds' lead March 3 -which would then hearing, scheduled for confirming the collection, his home. attorney, Allen Ruby, declined delay the trial for an undeter­Wednesday. Illston has said there is no Bonds is charged with 10 comment Monday. mined time. The 9th U.S. 
Anderson is considered a way to prove the samples counts of making false decla­Legal experts expect the Circuit Court of Appeals vital witness for the govern­belong to Bonds. rations to a grand jury and judge to put Anderson on would decide the issue. ment as it tries to prove Similarly, the judge said cal­one count of obstruction of notice that he will be put "It's very hard to overturn Bonds lied to a grand jury endars that prosecutors say justice. behind bars for the duration evidentiary rulings," said investigating steroid use by chart Bonds' use of perform­Illston scheduled the of the anticipated month-long Howard Wasserman, who athletes. Prosecutors said the ance-enhancing drugs can't Wednesday hearing after trial if he refuses to partici­teaches evidence at Florida trainer can directly link be introduced without Bonds' attorneys objected to pate. Then, they say, International University Bonds to three positive drug Anderson's testimony that he having Anderson's refusal to Anderson would be called to College of Law and writes tests and other evidence col­created them. testify -and possible jailing the witness stand during trial about sports law. "Plus it was lected during a September Messages left Monday with -play out in front of the jury. -but outside the presence of a very good, solid ruling." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. lD 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right lO edit all classifieds for conrem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? 
Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574·250·7653. 
Houses for the 09·1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. 
Contact Kramer at574-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
NOW LEASING. 
LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTER· NET. NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234·2436 OR WWW.KRAMER· HOUSES.COM 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300· $2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574· 876-3537. 
1·3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call574-232·1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
House for rent. 
Very clean 3/4 br, 1.5 bath, 2 living rooms and big backyard. Avail 09· 10 school year. Affordable and very close to campus. 
Call AJ@(440)463-5633. 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/10. CES Property Management 574-968-0112 CESOM.info 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http:1/osa.nd. edu/health· safety/assauiU 
PCB, Spring Break '09! 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at1·7819 or Ann Firth at1· 2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safe­ty/assistance-for-pregnant-students. 


Tuesday, February 24, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
APTop25  
team  potli/t$  record  
1  Pittsburgh (69)  1;7~7  25-2  
2 3  Connecticut {1) Oklahoma (2)  1.,~9? 1,643  25-2 2S.Z  
4 5  Norlh Carolina Memphis  1;556 1;54~  24-3 . 24-3  
6  Louisville  Mll3  22-5  
7  Duke  1.228  22-5  
8  Marquette  1;169·.·  23-4  
9  Michigan Slate  1,136  2H  
1o Villanova  1,125  22·5  
11 Missouri  1,094  23-4  
12 Clemson  1,050  22-4  
13 Wake Forest  992  20-5  
14 Arizona State  869  21-5  
15 Kansas  812  22-5  
16 Purdue  765  21-6  
17 Gonzaga  661  21·5  
18 LSU  541  23-4  
19 Xavier  413  22-5  
20 Illinois  364  22-6  
21 Washington  291  20-7  
22 UCLA  268  20-7  
23 Florida State  217  21-6  
24 Butler  192  23·4  
25 Texas  162  18·8  

NCAA Men's Basketball 
USA Today Top 25 
team  points  
1  .PIHsburgh (30)  7J4  
2  Connecticut (1)  721  
3  Oklahoma  . 691  
4  Memphis  .... 682  
5  North Carolina  668  
6  Louisvltle  585  
7  Duke  559  
8  Missouri  .517  
9  Michigan state  ·su  
10  Marquette  471  
11  Arizona State  434  
12  Villanova  428  
13  Clemson  424  
14  Wake Forest  411  
15  Kansas  355  
16  Purdue  261  
17  Gonzaga  257  
18  LSU  239  
19  UCLA  202  
20  Illinois  197  
21  Washington  178  
22  Xavier  175  
23  Butler  75  
24  Texas  55  
25  Florida Slate  52  

record 
25·2 
25·2 
25·2 
24·3 
24·3. 
22·5 
22·5 
23-4 
21-5 
23·4 
21·5 
22·5 
22·4 
20·5 
22·5 
21·6 
21·5 
23·4 
20·7 
22·6 
20·7 
22·5 
23·4 
18·8 
21·6 
Big East Conference Men's ~asketbaii·Standings 
team coll:jerence record 
1  LouisVIlle  13·2  
2  Connecticut  13·2  
3  Pittsburgh  12-2  
4  Marquelle  12·2  
5  Villanova  10·4  
6  West Virginia  ,jf  8·6  
7  Providence  8·7  
8  Syracuse  N  
9  Cincinnati  7-1  
10  NOTRE DAME  6·8  
11  Seton Hall  s:g  
12  Georgetown  S-10  
13  St. John's  4·10  
14  USF  3-11  
15  Rutgers  1·13  
16  DePaul  0-14  

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Florida at No. 18 LSU 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 
No. 25 Florida State at Boston College 
9:00 p.m., ESPNU 
NFL 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Marvin Harrison refused to take a pay cut. The Indianapolis Colts couldn't afford to keep him without one. 
On Monday, the two sides reached agreement on one thing: Harrison will be a free agent. 
Agent Tom Condon told The Associated Press that Indianapolis has agreed to release the franchise's all­time leading receiver, although an official announcement is not expected until Tuesday or Wednesday. 
The decision comes one day after team president Bill Pollan said he hoped to cut a deal that would keep Harrison in Indy. When Harrison said no, the Colts 
.. said farewell. "Basically, we were not able to come to any kind of agreement, it was not con­tentious and the Colts have agreed to release him," Condon said in a phone interview. Team officials declined comment and a message was left by The Associated Press at the office of team owner Jim Irsay. It's 11ot a surprising move because the Colts would save about $6 million, based on Harrison's base salary. They would still be charged for prorated bonuses from the $66 mil­

lion deal he signed in December 2004. 
The Colts found it too expensive for a 36-year-old receiver coming off one of the least productive seasons of his career. 
Harrison ranks second in NFL history with 1,102 receptions, and the move will disappoint many Colts fans, who embraced Harrison as a favorite. They referred to Harrison, Peyton Manning and Edgerrin James as "The Triplets," and Harrison was one of the franchise's most identifiable player in the last decade. 
His penchant for toe-tap­ping catches along the side­line and incredible grabs in the middle of the field 
IN BRIEF Jenkins attempts to quell
NFL doubts about size INDIANAPOLIS -Malcolm Jenkins hears the questions constantly. 
Maybe, the doubters suggest, he's not quick enough to play cornerback in the NFL. Maybe, at his listed size of 6 feet 1, 201 pounds, he'd be a better safety. Maybe he should have skipped that senior season and put those debates to rest. 
Jenkins believes he can answer any question scouts have for him at the NFL's annual scouting combine. If they want more proof, Jenkins suggests they review his game tapes -or pay attention to what he says. 
"If you put on a film of a guy who's about 5-10, 185, I'm doing the same things they're doing at my size," he said. "In the league now, you've got receivers that are getting bigger and more physical and that's what you need -a guy that can do it all. With my size and speed, it's something rare you really don't find around the nation." 
Rangers fire Renney after 
twefve game tailspin 
NEW YORK -Tom Renney was fired as coach of the New York Rangers on Monday and replaced by John Tortorella in an attempt to save a season that has spiraled out of con­trol. 
· The Rangers opened 10-2-1, but 10 losses in the last 12 games have knocked the team out of contention for the Atlantic Division title and placed it in danger of missing the playoffs completely. 
Tortorella led the Tampa Bay Lightning to the Stanley Cup title in 2004 and was let go following last season. The Rangers were not required to provide compensation to the lightning. 
Renney, a former coach of the Vancouver Canucks, was 164-121-42 with the Rangers in four-plus seasons and ranks fourth on the team's career wins and games coached lists. 
In recent home games, fans had chanted for Renney's dismissal. 
helped the Colts build one of the league's most successful franchises in this decade. 
But longtime teammates understood why Harrison wanted to become a free agent. 
"I think whatever Marvin chooses to do for himself, he has to do," center Jeff Saturday said Sunday night. "I love Marvin as a friend and as a teammate." 
Indianapolis took Harrison in the first round of the 1996 draft and when Manning arrived two years later, the tandem began a record-setting journey. 
They combined for more completions, yardage and touchdowns than any duo in league history. 

Crabtree addresses foot 
stress fracture worries 
INDIANAPOLIS -Michael Crabttee was quick on his feet Sunday, and if he does the same thing for NFL scouts next month the stress fracture in his left foot might soon be forgotten. 
In an odd scene at the league's annual scouting combine, Crabtree strolled quickly across the media room moments after Patriots coach Bill Belichick finished speaking. He walked up a couple of steps, smiled at reporters and then gave a 20-second statement confirming the decision to delay surgery so he could run in front of scouts during next month's person­al workout. 
"It's an old injury that I've been hav­ing, but I never had any pain in it," he said. "I will run my 40, and after that I will have surgery." 
With that, Crabtree exited stage left, taking no questions. 
Clearly, it was an effort to stem the fallout that began Saturday when it was revealed he needed surgery. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
NBA 
Barkley pleads guilty to charges 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Charles Barkley will serve time in jail after pleading guilty Monday to charges of driving drunk. 
According to Scottsdale court records, the 45-year-old former NBA star pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor charges related 
After a six-week leave of absence, Barkley resumed his studio analyst role for TNT last week. 
"This is just my bad, no excus­es," Barkley said in an interview with TNT colleague Ernie Johnson posted on NBA.com before he returned to work. 
"I think that 
a DUI is unac­

to the same "I think it's going to be ceptable," he drunken driving good for me, to be added. "That 
arrest. can't happen
honest. I need to make

Barkley, who and I've got to works as a TV sure drinking is not a challenge analyst, is set to problem for me. , other people, begin a five-day not just jail sentence on celebrities or 
Charles Barkley 

March 21. The jocks. You have Hall of Famer TNT analyst to really think 
must pay more than $2,000 in fines and attend an alcohol treatment program. Under Arizona law, he'll also be forced to install an ignition interlock device on his vehicles. 
His attorney was not immedi­ately available for comment. 
Barkley was stopped by police Dec. 31 shortly after leaving a Scottsdale nightclub. He was arrested after failing a field sobriety test. He had a blood­alcohol level of .149 percent, nearly twice the legal limit of .08 percent in Arizona when he was pulled over. 
before getting 
behind the wheel after you've been drink­ing." 
Barkley conceded at the time he could face jail time. 
"I think it's going to be good for me, to be honest. I need to make sure drinking is not a problem for me," he said. "I just want some professionals to talk to me about it." 
If they tell him to stop drink­ing, "then I'll have to stop drink­ing," he said. 
Asked if he could do that, he replied, "I feel I can do anything that I put my mind to." 


Date: Friday FebrLiary 2 7 Time: 9 pm 12 Where: Hagger Parle>Lir 

Sairt.t Marys Ce>llege 
Tuesday, February 24, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Cards get road win over Hoyas 
!Iatlie4 ~6.t.v«JA flfre.&p~ fj>~604 .Jl!lc,:Jlenna flfre 5~ Secti.on 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Louisville is in a crazy­good race for the regular­season championship of the Big East, where four of the nation's top eight teams sit atop the standings. 
Georgetown, the two-time defending regular-season champion, is not a member of that quartet. The Hoyas are all but conceding that their only road to the NCAA tournament runs through the conference tournament at Madison Square Garden. 
Louisville's upperclass­men topped Georgetown's youth 76-58 Monday night, led by Earl Clark's 22 
had 10 for the Hoyas (14­12, 5-10), who have lost nine of 11 as they continue their challenging spin through the nation's bas­ketball elite. Georgetown has played six teams cur­rently ranked in the top 10, and they'll make it seven against No. 10 Villanova on Saturday. The Hoyas are 2­4 in those games. 
The loss also dropped the Hoyas to 12th place in the Big East, just six weeks after they were ranked No. 9 in the country. 
Asked about his team's NCAA tournament chances, coach John Thompson III said: "If there's one good thing about being in 
!JJ!F ~ Uudi04 W~day~ !7-eli'IUCVUJ 25 2009 7:30-9:30p!Jtn~ 
J!af.a'tb.ure !JJal.£'t,cu.un and :lJaoley !llcu.un 
Student Affairs is now accepting non1inations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates n1ust be seniors who exen1plify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, committnent to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates tnay be notninated by faculty, statl: 
or fellow students. 
For a non1ination fonn~ please visit our website at: 
httl>://osa.nd.edu/get-involved/student-nctivities-and~awards/denny~moore~awant/ 
Nominations are due by ThursdaJ'. March 5, 2009. 


points, e i g h t rebounds and four steals. The No. 6 Cardinals (22-5, 13-2)  "I was hoping to be I 2­6. I thought that would be a very good season, in this league in this year, but we,ve been a great road team. ,,  this confer­ence it's that you get to go to New York and you get a chance to fight and  
overcame 1 6  Rick Pitino  you get chance  a to  
turnovers with solid  Cardinals coach  win it. have  We to  
defense and  continue to  

good first-half shooting to improve and we have to be win their fourth straight better when we get to New and move into a first-place York, it's as simple as tie with Connecticut. that." 
So much for Louisville Samuels got the better of coach Rick Pitino's early Monroe in the battle of season thought that the freshmen centers -at regular-season champ least while the game was would have five or six loss­still in the balance. 
es. Samuels got behind the 
"I was ho'ping to be 12-Georgetown center to score 6," said Pitino, whose team two of the Cardinals' first improved to 7-1 on the three baskets and finished road in conference play. "I 4-for-5 from the field. thought that would be a Monroe, by contrast, didn't very good take a shot season, 12-6, until a way­in this league ward 16­
"I thought we were
in this year, foot jumper but we've doing a good job, but more than 5 
been a great we were just turning minutes into 
road team." the game
it over too much. ,,
T h e and went 4­Cardinals for-7. started 9-for-Rick Pitino T h e 9 from the Cardinals
Cardinals coach 
field -their first miss coming near­ly 11 minutes in -and were 7-for-7 from 3-point range well into the second half. The marksmanship was more of a necessity than a luxury because they were so careless with the ball, but the initial shooting burst was enough to build a lead that kept Georgetown at bay throughout the second half. 
"I thought we were doing a good job, but we were just turning it over too much," Pitino said. "That was killing us." 
Samardo Samuels, Terrence Williams and Preston Knowles added 10 points apiece for the Cardinals, who had a 17­point first-half lead cut to eight in the second half. Louisville shot only 15-for­35 after the 9-for-9 start, but the defense forced 14 Georgetown turnovers and held the Hoyas to 31 per­cent shooting after half­time. 
Chris Wright scored 12 points, and Greg Monroe 
didn't miss a 
field goal 
until Clark's short jumper barely hit the rim with 9:01 remaining in the half, but by then Louisville already had 26­13 lead. Clark's 3-pointer gave Louisville a 41-24 lead with 3 minutes to play in the half, but Georgetown's Jessie Sapp scored the final seven points of the period, including a bank-shot 3­pointer at the horn that cut the lead to 41-31. 
The Cardinals started the second half with turnovers on their first three posses­sions, but Georgetown could only cut the deficit to eight. The Hoyas had trou­ble solving the full-court press and couldn't find an offensive rhythm, with Wright finishing 3-for-12 from the field, DaJuan Summers 1-for-8 and Sapp 3-for-10. 
"Once you lose and go through a stretch like we're going through, you don't feel as good about yourself," Thompson said. "It's as simple as that." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
NBA 
Robinson's 41 leads Knicks past Pacers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -In another spectacular offensive perform­ance, Nate Robinson's biggest play came with a return to his defensive roots. 
Robinson scored a season-high 41 points, including the tiebreak­ing layup with 26 seconds left, and the New York Knicks beat the short-handed Indiana Pacers 123-119 Monday night. 
Robinson scored 32 in the sec­ond half and matched Bob McAdoo's franchise record for most points in a game by a reserve. His final bucket came when he picked off an errant pass, just as he did twice in 2002 when he played for the University of Washington as a defensive back. 
"That interception definitely would have been for six to the house," Robinson said. "Would have got a flag for celebrating, but it's OK." 
He kept the celebration going after the game, giving actor Will Ferrell, whom he befriended last year and was sitting courtside, the green jersey he wore to win the slam dunk jersey at All-Star weekend. That's just one of the highlights of a month that has seen Robinson score 30 or more points four times in the last six games. 
"He's been on a dramatic tear since the All-Star break and he had another great perform­ance," Indiana's Jarrett Jack said. 
Al Harrington added 27 points and David Lee had 20 points and 13 rebounds for the Knicks. helping the Knicks pull out a game against a team that was missing most of its best players. 
"That should have been a game that we should have won handily tonight with them having their two best players out, but any time you keep it close like that they have some shotmakers on their team," said Lee, who had his 20th straight double­double. "So it was too close for comfort tonight, but I'm just glad we got a win." 
Jack scored a season-high 33 points and Marquis Daniels matched a season best with 28 for the Pacers, who had won two in a row overall and four in a row at Madison Square Garden. They fell to 4-2 when playing without both All-Star Danny Granger and Mike Dunleavy. 
The Knicks led for most of the fourth quarter but couldn't con­tain Jack, who had his previous season high here last month when he capped a 29-point per­formance with the winning jumper with 0. 9 seconds left. Indiana had the ball in the front court and a chance for the lead, but Jeff Foster threw away an inbounds pass and Robinson tracked it down before streaking in for a layup and a 121-119 lead. 
"I was in trouble getting open," Jack said. "Jeff thought someone was going one way and he threw it up there and (Robinson) was able to get the steal." 
Troy Murphy, who had 19 points and 21 rebounds, traveled on the next possession, and Robinson knocked down a pair of free throws for the final mar­gin. 
The Pacers were already with­out Granger (torn right foot ten­don) and Dunleavy, who coach Jim O'Brien said he expects will miss the rest of the season with an injured right knee. Then they were forced to go without point guard T.J. Ford, who was expected to play but couldn't because of the flu. 
"I thought we played a very spirited game, played with a lot of guts," O'Brien said. "We were missing three starters. We played well enough to win on the road, we just didn't pull it out at the end." 
The Knicks couldn't take advantage for most of the game, looking sluggish a day after a loss in Toronto. They eventually pulled it out behind Robinson, playing the best basketball of his career in the last couple of weeks, and surpassed last sea­son's total with their 24th victo­ry. 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles Ineet Adrian in first round 
Saint Mary's will try to continue regular season success in MlAA tourney 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 
It has been a record­breaking season for the Saint Mary's basketball team. 
The Belles, under the direction of coach Jennifer Henley, registered 13 MIAA conference wins and 15 total wins, both of which are school records. However, the team is not content with all of its suc­cess. 
Tonight marks the begin­ning of the MIAA confer­ence tournament for the Belles, giving them another chance to make school his­tory. 
Saint Mary's (15-9 over­
all. 13-3 MIAA), which came up 1.5 games short of rival Hope College for the regular season champi­onship, will try to win the first MIAA tournament championship in its pro­gram's history. Since the tournament's inception in the early 1990s, the Belles have yet to reach the title game. 
The Belles' first step to achieving history comes tonight when they host Adrian College in the first round at the Angela Athletic Complex. 
Saint Mary's and Adrian squared off twice in the regular season, with the Belles getting the better of their opponent each time. Saint Mary's walked away with 74-69 and 77-71 wins earlier this year. 

The previous close matchups could possibly make this a trap game for Saint Mary's, which cannot afford to make many mis­takes if it expects to win. Several untimely miscues could end in an unfortunate opening-round loss for the favored Belles. 
All year, the Belles have looked to senior forward Erin Newsom to lead the team and she has done just that. Newsom came up huge in both of the previ­ous games against Adrian, scoring 15 and 22 points in the respective contests. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 

Pleasejoinusfor apanel discussion mapping out the future of electricpowerand energy, featuring ... 
An~.!...~!!~l.~!:., 
....,"'""':•.~»»""·•·········;~,.•:,;<.'·.·······;,.•,.i,.,.••..,;,..;::,•.•.••.•.•,...; 
(~#i~ii$~d(hi<>f n~o<>flk~•>iWf ft1~gy,whkbl~~O¢roit E~· ""''htttklilllliy.~fi9mim!11\im~;l•mtl!~~~ 0<\dMWI>~l:.m~$(~ ~<>JII'•u<lliijwr'lliig um~r.art(i!*~ . 
PatrickEilers . . . ... 
:::<::::x,;;:;;.w;:«'<w':'<->>0:.,.._.,:.:::.>ri:·:·'i:':'V'···-:'-«·.~X::>=:::=::,;,:,iW».~0i··<··-<:<:.::->i::::::::&::--:<:::;:=:>:;::::-:X'<>.o<::<=>:::~~::: 
~i!!9 tjjtocwrmMadl~ ~ifh<;!l1 ~lt~f'®!Ji>i~fwtl(<;~iiln~~ #l!><i~pi~~ ~<M<!""W#ci111i@!<fu#l!>dm~~dw.m(*li$$!1!•· 
W<.~¢¥; . 
William Hederman 

~\01 o<Wlli>t i<>C'"'9teu andp;iWk>u>ly~~titiy,;rl~r ¢~;~•. 
& BotklU>,tli'\1<XO>dingdir..:tti<>f11t<1 Offit"d l/lori;aOmoighr. of\<! ~~ 
g<ttmu i>t tr.o~ol &...rgya~\llatory (Cn>Mi%1011; <ll>d~f«>pr~:li\'!~i>f 
•mn.imri>W#H<r(i.>l~~t,..w&~•mi 
Michael O'Sullivan 

~nh:wv;c, pr,.;tdam !ifd!wek>pwml ar fl't. E~rqy, a wruM le~m lh~ pmdudi<ln of de<ln <met!W< including windand "'Ia'~"'"'~'­
Th;> pandwlllb'1 m<:>derat<t<lbyJoan F. !lntnrn!d&, ~l(.,.ting·Crammd 
Prof~sor of Cit<imkal and Slomo~(ubr f!)9io~rh>\l Mid Oli'$<tor ofth<t 
Notre Dame EMrgy<.mts, 

Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
3:00 to 5:00 p.m. 
t..anr•·'l'.ia Hall AUOttQrlitll 
Tuesday, February 24, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
forced to entrust the under­classmen with the majority of scoring. So far this 
few things we need to do better if we expect to keep improving." 
Bayliss said that to con­tend on the national level, the young guys must really "lock down the lower posi­

season, they "Maturity has been a 
have held key and the competitive their own. 
spirit our younger guys 

"Maturity 
has been a have displayed has 
key and the been remarkable competitive 
at times.,,

spirit our younger guys have Bobby Bayliss 
displayed Irish coach has been remarkable 
tions." 
They will get a chance to do just that as the Irish will face off in a home match against another top-25 opponent in Texas A&M. The match against the Aggies is scheduled for Friday at 7 

at times," Bayliss said. p.m. in the Eck Tennis "That having been said, we Pavilion. need to make some improve­ments in areas where the Contact Chris Michalski at heat of battle has exposed a jmichal2@nd.edu 

Stretch 
continued from page 20 
Wednesday night] first and keep improving our position and putting pressure on the committee and people above us in the standings and put our­selves in great position for [the Big East tournament in] New York." 
Added forward Luke Harangody: "We can't control it. All we can control is the next game. We can't look at that stuff and try to piece things together and figure out where we're going to come out." 
But at The Observer, we have no quibbles about analyzing the standings. Here's how everyone stacks up heading into the fmal few games: 
Fighting for first: No.2 Connecticut (25-2, 13-2), No. 6 Louisville (22-5, 13-2), No.1 Pittsburgh (22-5, 12-2), No.8 Marquette (23-4, 12-2) 
This race at the top is every­thing a college basketball fan could hope for. Four great teams, all tied in the loss col­umn, slugging it out for the title in the last few games. Marquette has the toughest remaining schedule -consid­ering its next three games are against Connecticut, Louisville and Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh and Connecticut still play each other one more time, this time in Pittsburgh, on March 4. Pittsburgh looks like it could win the national title right now, but if Pittsburgh and Louisville both win out, the Cardinals will hold the tiebreaker over the Syracuse and Cincinnati are Panthers for the No. 1 seed in the only two of this group that 

the Big East  still have to  
tournament.  play each  
(Louisville beat them 69-63 on Jan. 17).  "I think it's important to just handle Rutgers first and keep improving our  other. Syracuse also has to travel to  
The second tier: No.12  position and putting pressure on the  Marquette, while Cincinnati  
Villanova ( 22-5,  committee and people  has to face  
10-4), West Virginia (19-8,8-6)  above us in the standings.,,  West Virginia at home.  
Villanova is a  Providence  
lock for the  Kyle McAiarney  gets  
NCAA  Irish senior guard  Pittsburgh  

Tournament and if the Mountaineers take care of business, they are in as well. West Virginia's remaining games are against Cincinnati, South Florida, DePaul and Louisville. The Mountaineers could go 4-0, but 3-1 is more likely. Worst casa scenario, they probably go 2-2, losing to Cincinnati and Louisville, but that would still put them at 10­8 in conference with 21 wins overall, giving them a solid shot at making the Tournament. 
Fighting for their lives: Providence (16-11, 8-7), Cincinnati (19-8, 7-7), Syracuse (17-10, 7-7), Notre Dame (15-10, 6-8) 
The top four teams may be duking it out for No. 1, but here's where the real nail-bit­ing will take place in the next two weeks. There's still time for each team to make a case for a Tournament bid with a strong finish to the regular sea­son and a couple wins in the conference tournament. 
Key games down the stretch: at home and 

travels to Villanova. Notre Dame has Connecticut in Storrs on Saturday and then Villanova at home next week. March Madness has come a little early for these teams. 
Too bad everyone goes to the Big East tournament: Seton Hall (14-12, 5-9), Georgetown (14-12, 5-10), St. John's (13-14, 4-10), South Aorida (8-18, 3-11), Rutgers (10-17, 1-13), DePaul (8-19, 0-14) 
Under previous Big East rules, there would be a dogfight this year for the 12th and fmal conference tournament posi­tion, with four teams still in the running for it. But since every­one goes to New York this year, there's no drama to speak of, just bad basketball. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd. edu 
FEBRUARY 22 -MARCH 1 
2/22-3/1 "Giving a Voice" Poster Campaign featuring 
GRC FfRE Starters 
2/23 Take Back the Night 
Prayer Service; 7:00pm at log Chapel 
March around campus 

Speak Out at Bonfire; 8:00 pm at Holy Cross Hill 
(with hot-chocolate, smores and free t·shirts) 
2/24-26 Resource Tables from 'I 'l :30 to 130pm in Lafortune 
anp the Dining Halls . 

2/25 Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention ((SAP) Student Forum 7:00pm in Reekers Hospitality Room 
2/27 "A Time to riea!" Dinner with Faculty and Student Speakers Carolyn Nordstrom Professor of Anthropoloqy John Cavadini Department Chair and Professor ofTheology Kyle A.C. Rocca Survivor of sexual assault Tim Latham President ofMen Against Violence Anonymous Student Survivor of sexual assault 
5:00-7:00 pm at Legends. All are welcome and the dinner is free, but 
you must RSVP by February 23 to grqsmd.edu or 631-9340 
3/1 SAAW Sunday featllring petitions, ribbons and 
prayer cards at Masses 



31.! L;1hmmw • 574.(>JJ .9J4U • grc.nd • .:du • gn:@nd.nlu 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
Co-sponsors: Student Government Gender Relations CenteL 1V1admting Departrn-ent nnu Gender Studies Honor Society 
£1 -,jl
ruur ltU1 
Thursday, February 26th 7:00-8:30 pm Debartolo 102 

Stacy Nadeau 

The DOVE Campaign, and Ethical Marketing 
As one of six women in the Dove ~~Real Women with Real Curves" campaign, Stacy Nadeau is now a spokeswoman on healthy body image and challenges today's young men and women to think differently about beauty. 
Brawlin' 
continued from page 20 
of many hotly-contested bouts tonight. The rest of the 48 remaining boxers will fight for a place in the finals this weekend. 
Along with Bourroughs, there are seven more defend­ing champions stepping into the ring, including senior Kris Perez. Perez, who is undefeat­ed in his career, is going for his fourth straight title. He takes on Kieran Bulger in the 140-pound division semifinals tonight. 
Senior captains Mike Lee and Dan Rodgers are each trying to take the next step towards a third Bengal Bouts crown. Lee, who transferred to Notre Dame at the begin­ning of his sophomore year, is also undefeated in his career. Jim Hasson, who has won both of his fights this year in unanimous decisions, will try to hand Lee his first loss. 
Several other hungry fight­ers will vie for their first chance at a championship tonight. Some notable bouts include bruiser John Tchoula against the technical Rafael Diaz in the 185-pound divisio; a battle of senior veterans Patrick Kibbe and Brian DeSplinter in the 147-pound bracket; and lightweights Sean McNichols and Michael Sayles, who will square off in the second fight of the night. 
The action is set to begin at 
6:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Orange 
continued from page 20 
with a fighter's attitude, having hung with the best team in the country. 
"We can play with an ath­letic team like this. We know that we can move the ball and get rebounds with an athletic team. We knpw that we can play with a team like this," Irish guard Ashley Barlow said in the postgame press conference. 
Now that the top dog is out of the way, the Irish can begin their three-game slugfest for seeding in the Big East tournament. The Orange are first on the docket. Syracuse sits tied with West Virginia for 11th place at 4-9 in the confer­ence and 15-11 overall. 
Although the tournament expanded to include all 16 teams this season, the Irish (sixth place at 18-7, 7-6) still have a chance to improve their seed. But they will likely need to win all of their remaining games to do so. 
Notre Dame is one game behind DePaul (20-7, 8-5). whose remaining games are against Marquette, South Florida and Cincinnati, teams in the middle or bot­tom of the conference. Notre Dame swept the season series with DePaul, but still needs the Blue Demons to lose at least one game to move up to the No. 5 seed. 
But first the Irish have to get past the Orange, who are led by senior Chandrea Jones. The 5-foot-9 guard 
leads the team in scoring 
(16. 7 points per game). rebounding (8.5) and 3­point field goal percentage (.314). 
Sophomore guard Erica Morrow has also lit up the scoreboard for Syracuse this season, averaging 16 points per game while shooting .295 from beyond the arch. This season, Morrow has taken 166 3-point attempts, compared to 297 by Notre Dame's entire roster. 
Notre Dame has spread the wealth offensively this season, and has four players scoring in double figures. Barlow leads the team with 
12.8 points per game, fol­lowed by senior guard Lindsay Schrader at 12.2, junior point guard Melissa Lechlitner at 10.7 and soph­omore forward Becca Bruszewski at 10.3. 
Bruszewski has been one of the top performers for the Irish of late, and had scored in double figures in five straight games before the Connecticut Joss, in which she managed just nine 
points. 
Irish coach Muffet 
McGraw attributed 
Bruszewski's recent success 
to her more relaxed 
approach to the game. 
"[Bruszewski is] just play­ing well in the last couple of games," McGraw said. "I think it's a little bit easier when you're a sophomore playing. You don't have quite the same pressure on you, you can just go out and play your game." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
NBA 

Harris hits half court shot, Nets beat 76ers 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Devin Harris hit an unbe­lievable lunging half-court shot at the buzzer and the New Jersey Nets snapped a season-high five-game losing streak with a 98-96 victory over the slumping Philadelphia 76ers on Monday night. 
With players from both teams surrounding the scor­er's table, the referees watched replays of Harris' shot for nearly three minutes before signaling the basket was good. 
Seconds earlier, the 76ers seemingly nailed down the victory when Andre Iguodala sank the second of two free throws to give them a one­point lead with 1.8 seconds to play. 
The Nets quickly inbounded to Harris, who bobbled the ball after bumping with Iguodala and then heaved in the winner from in front of the scorer's table. 
Harris finished with a game-high 39 points, but his 22nd shot of the night will be one Nets fans remember, especially if it helps key a run to the playoffs. 
Vince Carter added 10 points, including a driving layup with 13.2 seconds to play that tied the game at 95. 

Philadelphia worked for a final shot and gave the ball to Iguodala, who led it with 21 points. He didn't begin his move down the left side of the lane until about 6 seconds remained on the clock and he got hit by Harris as he took the shot. 
Iguodala missed the first and made the second, setting the stage for Harris to steal the win and send the 76ers to their fourth straight loss, matching their season high. 
Andre Miller added 17 points and 10 assists for Philadelphia, while Willie Green and Thaddeus Young had 14 points apiece. Samuel Dalembert had 13 points and 10 rebounds as the 76ers lost to the Nets for the third time in as many games. 
The final 2 minutes seemed · to last forever, with the Sixers opening a 92-89 lead on a rebound follow by Dalembert. 
Harris made a free throw to cut the margin to two points with 1:14 to go. After a miss by Miller, Bobby Simmons hit a 3-pointer from the left wing with 35.3 seconds to play aQd was fouled, putting the Nets ahead 93-92. However, he missed the free throw. 
Marreese Speights, who had five points, gave Philadelphia a 94-93 lead with a 10-footer with 26.4 seconds to go. 

Notre Dame Business 
Marketing Presentation 

Notre Dame Marketing Students will present their research on how the media affects and influences a person's conception of their body and their notion of beauty. 

Tuesday, February 24, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..:;.+*~~:.t 


0 
0 0 


57 May 8, 1945 58 "Oh, woe!" 59 OS Michael 60 UJ!per echelon 61_Stanley 
Gardner ­62 Actress Lupino 
and others 63 Winter forecast 64 Bakery loaves 
Down Medicinal amount. 2 Through regular order ot succession 3 52-Across, starting 1120/09 4 Old Italian money 5 Valentine candy 
message 6 Lets up 7 Sir _ Belch of 
"Twelfth Nighf' 8 Nile queen, 
informally 9 Not fully noticed 1 0 Ancient Greek 
theater 11 52-Across had one with John McCain 12 Cry just before 
leaving 13SoUd rock 21 "Mad Money" 
network 22Chop 26 Sufficient, once 28 Transmitted by 
speech 29 With 36-Across, 52-Across's number two 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puute by Tim Westoll 
32 Suffix for many a 37 Home state of 49 Parts of bottles 
computer 52*Across: Abbr. 53 Big name in 
attachment computers
41 Kind of bomber 54 Actress
33 Biblical birthright 43 What secondary Sedgwick
seller recipients of e· mails get 55 1930s boxing34 Variety champ Max
44 Natural 56 This clue's 35 Spent too much 45 "Maybe later" number in(for) 46 "Hot" food 
Roman 36 1960s hairdos 47 Equilibria numerals 
For answers, ca111-900-285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-!!00·614-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.comlmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tlps: nytimes.comiwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nylimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELF.JlR!TlfiS BORN ON THIS DAY: KnMm Da,·h. ·H; Patrida Rid~ard«>n. 58; Mut Samlforrl. 65; l'eter Fouda, 69 
Happy Bi.rtbd<ly: St~<: <lowtt. j!CI fit, p;:t on track. secure your jl<"thon and <l"holit.e y<mr hi\::. y,., ~;we the d:<"'iplill.: to do wh;o.kvcr '"'"'h doio.g·, "'tal;<: ttw first <kp. R,•pl>>.<T the oi<!:J;lativ,;s iu your hk with l"'lt<'f Ullt'l'\'st<, pa~>k ;ltl<iplaus. A sc<:ret <'llc'{)!.tl!kr willlea.d to a !k'W heginuln,!l'. Your muul~rs a;<~-7, 14.16, 34. J7, 41 • 
ARIES (Man:h ll-April .19}; Ymt owe il w ymu·wl! and the pwje<:1s you wmut<> get off ib< gnmud 1.<> a~k, "tl"'r> 1\:.r hdp. Yuu ca11 m;•k~ ~ diffr>"<'tuoe I<> ;a lot of pc"<>pk by htdudittg them i11 ynur plan•. Open your heart. your bome mtd your good >ptrit 4 st~ 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): You h;we to uw thsc·retiou if yon W<!nt to avoi<ltmublc. St-R\' ~tW'a1j' {rpm ~.OYVU!i,': '-\-·ho h ()ff.hmitto !t¥lfd v~:m sot1 t1Ut \\'bat tv do aw~u !ltc wav vnu lwl.. [ll;~ \.·hat\ l:w$t l'or everyone. 1 ~tar< • • • 
GEMINI (May 2J.June 20); Th~ more you <IIL1rc your thought~ and tulere>ils, the ~.realer lhe Sllf>P"''~ ~ou will gel.. Thi~ i.~ a rreatlim~ to )let abe•d au<l m:lke dmnf1e>. Your""'~" in~ J""t~<Jtn~bty will k:~d I<> happinc.". 5 Mat" 
CANCER (lone 2l·July 22): Give !(f'eldtt lhott~ht to yMr fimmcial position and who in your hi~ is costing yt"JU too mudt lt'to tin1e. tu discut~ a ne\v budp.ct or ndt!s autl regulations ''' tnwqwra~t' mw y<>ur life f><>tft kt your <>wn unc-ertainty l>e your <i<>wnfall..\ sla" 
LlSO (July Z.3·AIIg. 22): Oiw mm-e tim,• to" rdiltion•hip t.lwl }"tl care abr!llt.I'J;no "trip t>r ,ius! spe-nd tile dny <loing !!ling> that ye•u both <'njoy. If yon •m• •in~ !e. get luvolvcd in ~oJttt...thin~ th;t! tutcte.~h you ;md, before )~fll k:no\'-'' u, Y"'lu wtl1 b<n:~ sonl!~OJH.~ ~l~ll~J m your !ile, 3stan 
VI'RGO (Aug, .23-SepL 22): ludecifimt will e<>J.tl<' back to b:umt ym1. Justlx.,attse s-ome dun~ is new or tml'amiliar <l<.,su'l m~an it cmmot work Op<)ll )'<)It( mind I<> the possibiblies and y<>n will b<" ~bl., m perk" what.:~tcr needs adjn<ting You are"" d..: wrge <ll' a hr~ak. lhmogh. J stan 
UB.RA (Sept. :B-Oct. 22): lnvo!vemctll m projects yon believe til or hdpi"* olllm will turn mto '<~mc!lun~ ymtlea>l expe-cl, l..P\'e look> pr<>misint•nd. \nth a hule JUJ).immly. you can ~nd up tn a "'ery nke posit lou wltb St.lHl:etJtlC' you adote. 5 st.tU'.s 
SCORPIO (Oel. 2.3-N<>V. 21): Do11'1 !.,hew "ver)1binJ< yoll hea;. &,meonewill try to mooJle in ynur pe-r...,nal o(fairs. Go to the ~"''"'"ami ask <juesttQ!lS. ll1is is not the time lo make changes at hou"'. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov: 22-D.:e. 21): E\'<.-rylhi!lg will <k1wnd t)ll ~1>t!f ped\>mi>Ut<:<' <t!>d abiliiy I<> ~ml•incc ot.IK-ts I<> }o:oiu your emo.c. An i<ka ynu b;,\'t' nm '''"rk ~·· lmw a~ Y*"' <lnu'r go overhom-d. Som.,om: you <'!IN <>lK•Ul cm1 bdp you get things dfIlk' grmmd. 4 >hili 
CAPRICORN (flee_ 22-Jan, l9): Ymt c<tn'l k1 a pe-rsonal rclaHo"sltip ~.-.u..., yt)ll to n~ake a'""" dedsmu. \\1.ten it C<ltue>i wfimtn<:e$. dou't let emot.imt~ w.k" V\'f.'f. Slick In what yo11 kll<lW W<>tk.> :w<l you w\llm:>~llt.aiu ~"ur lj("oti<m. :3 star~ 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 2(f..Feb. 18): Taken htt <•f" ~hancc when it <.>:unes to • J>"ffllL'hllip. !riemhhtp or personal relationship, Make w!e~ !hal yo11 feel will work forewryone in­
wlwd. bh..:ati"'ml f>llr.uit> 1'1' ft'lllnjllllV"keti in an t!tl~re>f ~n>llp wtl! dmn~e your life. .l >!ar<; 
PISCES (Feb. 19..Man:h :W): There is a l..l1 yon are unaware <>f ·"'· bei<lre you make 
promise~ or pur~ue smnttloing nc.w. m:tkc ;urc ym11'ully tlltdd';t;u•<l the C<lltS.:<tHellc.:s <lf not <~i•·kitl~ t<J mleo, ;utd rer•dali<"l'. A wen-1 '"""""'tion may backforc tf ro<o h"wn't breu comvlc~dy upfnmt. J ''•rs · 
Birthda~ Baby: Y<'>l> are Jldvcnturm••. curious attd intere5t~-.:l 111 trying uew dnll~t<, Y<)\1 b.we ~ \wid imagm:ition and are alway' :.hoa<i of !I"' erow<l. 
Eugema':s· U.CIJ !file£: ~wgeuialau.t~om fortYmfuU.wn01 cvttndttuttm.~. mysptu·t~"comitmgeuitrla.v for Eu,ftt~m'a's blog. fl'Sit'f.ladt.:iCt?~<'Olrtfor fim 
WWW. 8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year .. 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MERFA 
1 
rJ I I 
@12006 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserwo. 
GAMLE jrJ r II 
YIVELT 
I ( J b
www.jurnble.QOm 
OPTECK brJ I 

Print answer here: [ IT
I I ) [ I I I ] 
(Answers Monday) LANKY BIPED POUNCE BEWAILYesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: What the sleeping recruits felt like when they heard the bugle -BLOWN "UP" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Hemi Arnold and Mike Argirion 

!. 
I 
WHeN THE:Y VJffiet/ 
~ RJU.. MOON F!<OM THE MOUN­TAIN TOP, THeY COUl-DN'T--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Pickle flavoring 5 Sheetful or cookies 
10 Eight: Prefix 
14 "The Love" (hit by 42­Across) 15 Nasty virus 
16 Setting for an Inaugural Address 
17 Representation of a state on the 
U.S. flag 18 Sllents actress Normand 19 Jane Austen novel 20 Book by 52­Across, with "The" 23 Test for coli. 
seniors 24 Opposite SSW 25 Former body for 
52-Across 27 Dresses like a justice 
29 Synagogue-goer 30 It's not free of 
charge 31 Hobbit's enemy 32 "The Bells" poet 33 Frozen waffle 
brand 34 Crash site? 36 See 29-Down 38 Winter forecast 39_0fflce 40 Hobbit's friend 41 52-Across once 
passed it, with ''the" 
42Rock band fronted by Michael Stipe 
43Cartoon colfactible 
44Senses 48 You can dig it so•_what?" 
51 Vintner's container 52 Oath of office taker on 1/20/09 56 Not or the cloth 



0 0 
0 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre ·name and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, February 24, 2009 
page 20 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Lone heavyweight fighters to square off in finals rematch 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 

The first Bengal Bouts champion of 2009 will be crowned tonight in the Joyce Center. 
The heavyweight champi­onship fight features sopho­
more  Kevin  Crepeau  and  
defending .champion  Will  
Bourroughs.  

Crepeau and Bourroughs will be fighting for the first and final time tonight as the only two boxers in this year's heavyweight division. Crepeau weighed in at 234 pounds and Bourroughs tipped the scales at 239. 
-"It's kind of nerve-wracking because that first fight you always get to see where you are," Crepeau said. "Nothing is the same as when you actu­ally fight, so you don't know if all your training has been enough until you actually get in there." 
Tonight's battle is a rematch from last year's final when Bourroughs, a law student, proved to be too much for then-freshman Crepeau. 
"Last year he gave me a pretty good beating, so this year I think I'm going to come with something a little differ­ent," Crepeau said. 
Last year, after a fairly even first round, Bourroughs pulled away in the second and opened up on his opponent in the final round, ending the contest before the final bell. 
"Once he had me, he just hit the gas," Crepeau said. 
To his credit, the rookie was the only fighter that Bourroughs did not put on the canvas. Crepeau said he used the loss as motivation in his training this year and thinks he is better prepared the sec­ond time around. 
"I know what I have to do," Crepeau said. "I just have to do it and that's not that easy." 
They know each other's style after sparring many times leading up to this year's fight. 
The title fight should be one 
see BRAWLIN' /page 18 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
A building block 

Hoopsters prepare to 
face 'Cuse after tough 
game against UConn 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor 
Notre Dame begins its final 

" push to the postseason tonight when it takes on Syracuse at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. The Irish are coming off a hard-fought 76-66 loss to top­ranked and undefeated Connecticut on Sunday, in what was the smallest margin of victory this season for the Huskies. Despite having sev­eral opportunities to win, the Irish allowed a 22-1 Connecticut run and fell by the wayside in the second half. Notre Dame left the game 

GRACE KENESEYfThe Observer 
Left, Irish junior guard Ashley Barlow dribbles during Notre Dame's 71-66 loss to Louisville last Wednesday. At right, teammates Brittany see ORANGE/page 18 Mallory, left, and Fraderica Miller cheer from the bench during the setback against the Cardinals. The Irish will face Syracuse tonight. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL ANALYSIS 
Irish head into home stretch 
Players say they are only concerned with one game at a time 
All season long, Notre Dame's players have tried not to look at the Big East standings and get caught up in the speculation of who's going to finish where. 
With two  
weeks left in  Chris Hine  
the confer­ 
ence sched­ 
ule, think  Editor-in-Chief  
the Irish  
have both­ 

ered to take a peek? If they did, they're saying otherwise. 
"I think we've done a good job all season of not looking at numbers and letting coach [Mike Breyl deal with that stuff," Irish guard Kyle McAlarney said. "Especially right now, I think it's important to just handle Rutgers [on 
see STRETCH/page 17 

MEN'S TENNIS 

Kentucky hands ND loss at Eck Pavilion 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sports Writer 
Notre Dame fell prey to Kentucky 5-2 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion Monday. The loss drops the Irish back down to .500 with a record of 6-6. 
Even with the· return· of senior Brett Helgeson, the team could not muster enough points to defeat the high-powered Wildcats, who move to 8-2 on the season. 
The doubles team of soph­omore Stephen Havens and freshman Casey Watt got the Irish started with an 8-2 win in second doubles, but the Wildcats took over in first and third doubles. Irish duos of Brett Ilelgeson and Tyler Davis and Niall Fitzgerald and Matt Johnson lost 5-8 and 3-8, respectively, giving 
Kentucky an early 1-0 lead. The singles lineups for 

"both teams were dominated by youth, as only two upper­classmen competed between both teams. Those two -Helgeson for Notre Dame and Bruno Angostinelli for Kentucky -faced off in No. 1 singles. Angostinelli emerged victorious in a 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 match. 
Havens and Watt were the only two players to earn a point for the Irish. Havens knocked off Kentucky's Brad Cox in three sets at second singles and Watt defeated Graerne Dyce 6-4, 6-3 at fourth singles. 
With Helgeson the only upperclassman to provide consistent contributions to the team this season, Irish coach Bobby Bayliss has 
see WILDCATS/page 17 




