
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 129 FRIDAY, APRIL24, 2009 
McGurn: Abortion not a political issue 
Centerfor Ethics and Culture sponsors lecture byformer Bush speechwriter in spirit ofdiscussion 
By JOHN TIERNEY Assistant News Editor 
Abortion is an "intrinsic evil" and not a "political dif­ference," said William McGurn, the former chief speechwriter for President George W. Bush in a lecture entitled "Notre Dame: A Witness for Life" Thursday. 
"Abortion as a legal right is less a single issue than an entire ethic that serves as the foundation stone for the culture of death," McGurn, a 1980 graduate of the University and former staff writer for The Observer, said. 
While many people view 
abortion as a divisive issue, McGurn argued that it is an issue on which people should be able to agree. 
"This is where people can come together, without com­promising their other differ­ences," McGurn said. 
He said he proposed that Notre Dame hold a "summit of pro-life Democrats ... to come here to make the Notre Dame statement for life." 
"There are a lot of Democrats I disagree with, but our country's richer when we're standing togeth­er on life," McGurn said. 
Abortion is not, according 
see ABORTION/page 6 


Students seek spoon train world record 
145 participants lie on South Quad, break Guinness record of93 spooners to benefit charity 
spoon train will be entered into the Guinness Book of World Records after shatter­ing the old record of 93. 
While the record was tech­nically broken last year with a train of 127 spooners, the organizers of the event did not fill out the required paperwork to submit the attempt to the Guinness Book of World Records. 
Co-captain Deirdre Murdy said members of the ski team came up with the idea last year to encourage other members on campus to par-
see SPOONERS/page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Explosion onca111pus injures grad student 
Observer Staff Report 
An explosion in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering left a student injured Thursday after­noon, according to a University spokesperson. 
Associate director of News and Information Julie Flory told The Observer a female graduate student suffered "moderately seri­ous burns" after an experi­ment she was conducting in the basement of the build­ing resulted in a small explosion. 
"I would say the injuries were serious, but certainly not life-threatening," Flory said. "She had burns, but not something they're con­cerned about in the long­term." 
The student was taken to a local hospital in an ambu­lance after the Notre Dame Fire Department respond­ed. 
Flory said the student had been mixing a non-toxic chemical combination before the explosion occurred. 
The explosion, which occured around 1 p.m., caused a small fire, but Fitzpatrick Hall did not sustain any damages. 
Flory said students were evacuated, but the building returned to normal opera­tion shortly after. 
Ebadi examines human rights 
Nobel Peace Prize recipient says Islam is compatible with democracy 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
In Iran, 65 percent of stu­dents attending universities are women, but the law states a man's life is worth twice that of a woman's, said Shirin Ebadi, recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003. 
"Gender discrimination exists," Ebadi said through a translator. "The testimony of two women in court equals the testimony of one man." 
Ebadi, a lawyer and human rights activist known for defending women's rights in Iran, discussed human rights in the Islamic world for the 15th annual "Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Lecture in Ethics and Public Policy" Thursday. 
A Ion g with gen­d e r inequality, she said religious discrimi­nation is a pressing 


issue in Ebadi Islamic countries. 
"A number of Baha'is live in Iran, but are deprived of social and civil rights," Ebadi said. 
Legally, if a Muslim commits a crime, they can be punished with 100 lashes, but if a non­Muslim commits a crime, they can be punished with execu­tion. 
Some Western theorists and radical Islamic governments contend that the Islamic reli­gion is incompatible with human rights and democracy, but Ebadi said she rejects that idea. 
Many moderate Islamic intellectuals believe human rights are compatible with Islam, she said. They main-
see EBAD II page 6 

VPI to hold final event of the year 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
The Gender Relations Center (GRC) will host its first annual "Now is the Time: Festival on the Quad" today to celebrate the commitment to overcoming sexual violence on campus, GRC director Heather Rakoczy Russell said. 
The festival, which is a part of the GRC's Violence Prevention Initiative (VPI), is the program's biggest event of the year, will take place on South Quad today from 3 to 8 p.m. 

The festival will be VPI's final event of the semester, Rakoczy Russell said. 
She said VPI -a program launched earlier this year ­has accomplished some of its goals, but still has "room to grow." 
"Where we have succeeded this year so far is raising awareness about violence in the local community and heal­ing of survivors," Rakoczy Russell said. "And the fact that we are doing some charity 
see VPI/page 8 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Fisher regatta to set sail Saturday page 3 +Men's Lacrosse to play OSU this weekend page 28 • Viewpoint page 11 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Lying side by side along South Quad, 145 students gathered Thursday afternoon to attempt to break the world record for the longest human spoon train. 
"We did this last year just for fun," junior Charlie Mahoney, a co-captain of the event, said. "This year we wanted to break the world record." 
The 145 spooners partici­pating in this year's "Spooning for Solutions" 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 24, 2009 
INSIDE 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: BIG SPOON OR LITTLE SPOON? 

You didn't know? 
In all of my time at Notre Dame, I have never been champion of any­thing. Until now. 
Last night, my bookstore team, the Miner Street Shooters, challenged the 
recently coronat­ed Bookstore  Jay Fitzpatrick  
Basketball cham­ 
pions and we pre­vailed. We ran an  Senior Staff  
effective fast  Writer  
break, had great  
dribble penetra­ 

tion, and (if I may indulge my own ego) had a block party in the defen­sive paint. 
That's right. We took down Four Girls and a Guy 21-3, making me and my friends the new Women's Bookstore Basketball Champions. 
My team and I had to draw up a gameplan for the matchup, and it was pretty simple. 
Step one: Find their shooter. Girls teams are generally role players with one great girl (equivalent to your average male player). We quickly learned that person was junior Sierra Smith, the recently named Women's MVP. 
Step two: Defend outside shots. The first thing I learned from covering Notre Dame women's basketball for three years was that most girls can easily shoot from distance. Throw in a heavy dose of height and that was their only option. Fortunately for us, the girl who we thought would be able to make it rain (I'm looking at you point guard Molly McCarthy) built a house with all her bricks 
Step three: Be dudes. That's right, I said it. Between incredible speed out of guards Tony, Tommy and Stephen and a double-double in blocks and boards from yours truly, our natural masculinity helped us cruise to the title. 
Once we put that plan in place, it was all uphill from there. 
To be fair, the game was pretty competitive for a while. They made some shots; we made a lot more. But in the end, brains and brawn tri­umphed simultaneously and the title was ours. 
They tried to pass. We intercepted it every time. They tried to shoot. We blocked it almost every time. They tried to play defense. We made it rain. 
They got tired. 
We got hungry. 
I didn't think it would this easy. I thought playing them would be like playing an average (at best) men's team. Quite frankly, we aren't even good. We had one win and (surprise!) it was against girls. 
I'll be honest with you, 0 dear read­er: It feels good to be a champion. It feels good to know that we can take on any challenger and prevail. 
It just feels good to be alive. 
And now I throw down the gauntlet. Any girls team that thinks they can take us on, bring it. We accept all challengers, no holds barred. (Of course, we don't want to play Skylar Diggins. I mean, wow. She's just that good). 
In the end, I think we can all take a life lesson away from this. Boys rule. Girls drool. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 





Erin Bryne  Katie Doellman  Mike Quigley  Natalie Badasare  Alex Hath  Sam Shanley  
freshman Welsh Family  freshman Welsh Family  freshman Sorin  freshman Welsh Family  freshman Sorin  freshman Sorin  
"Either. I don't discriminate based on size. ,,  "Middle spoon. I like to be in the middle.,,  "Both because then I can spoon with both ofmy friends' girlfriends.,,  "All spoons are created equal.,,  "Little spoon because Sam is a big ,, spoon.  "Big spoon because Alex is a little spoon.  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Crew retrieves bloated carcas of bull from River 
RUMFORD, Maine -A public works crew retrieved the bloated car­cass of a bull that had float­ed down the Androscoggin River and over a waterfall before landing on some boulders weeks ago. Crewman Dan Peare told the Sun Journal of Lewiston that he convinced his boss­es that he and fellow crew­men could and should remove the animal before warm weather arrived for the weekend. 
On Wednesday, Peare climbed down the river bank and attached a rope 
to the hull's legs. They then pulled the 800-to 900­pound Hereford up the bank with a bucket loader, lifted it into a dump truck and buried it behind the town garage. 
The animal was first spotted in early April when it went over the falls and landed in a seemingly unreachable position atop a rock pile about 100 feet below the top of the river bank. 
Officails capture three­legged alligator from beach 
SEACREST BEACH, Fla. -It sounds more like something out of a freak show: a one-eyed, 3-legged alligator. The gator was captured Thursday morn­ing in Seacrest Beach by Walton County officials. The animal was less than five feet long and had somehow found its way to the beach. 

A family visiting from Chicago called it the perfect day at the beach. They learned how to tell apart an alligator from a crocodile. 
The rare gator was taken to a safe location and returned without harm to the wild. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

a:: 
LLI ::z::: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
c( 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 81 HIGH 77
.... 
LOW 59 LOW 56 

72 
59 

82 58 


IN BRIEF 
A panel discussion entitled "The History and Future and Gender Studies" will be held at 
10:00 a.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium on Friday. A reception will be held before the event at 9:00 a.m. in the Great Hall in the Hesburgh Center. 
The "BFA/MFA Candidates' Theses" will be held in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Suite Museum of Art on Friday. The exhibit will be held at 10:00 
a.m. Admission is free. 
A Chicken Dinner Fundraiser will be held for Relay for life in the Stephan Center. A half of a chicken is $6. The dinner will be held on Friday. 
Notre Dame Bike Fest will be held on South Quad. Students will have the opportunity to regis­ter bikes, get a free tune up, learn safety skills, participate in a bike ride or join a bike club. The festival will begin at 7:30p.m. on Friday. 
Tree Planting Day will begin at 
1:00 p.m. on Friday. Forty trees will be planted to offset carbon emission. 
The End of the Year Extravaganza will be presented by the Psychology Club Friday. The festival will be held on North Quad and will begin at 2:00 p.m. 
The Farley Hall Players will present "Assassins" on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. Admisson costs $6. Tickets can be purchased at the door, or at the LaFortune Box Office. The musical will be in Washington Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 64 HIGH 57 LOW 43 LOW 41 
Friday, April 24, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Students set to sail across lake in Fisher Regatta 
Teams will attempt to stay afloat in a variety of make-shift boats in competition for Phoenix-based charity Saturday 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Tomorrow, 35 boats will set sail in hopes of claiming the glory of victo­ry in the Fisher Regatta. 
Some teams will proudly row all the way across St. Mary's lake while others will sink seconds after the race begins, but only two teams will emerge victorious -one each from the men's and women's brackets. 
Pat Hogan, the event's commis­sioner, said this year marks the 23rd year of the Regatta, and the number of entrants has gone up from last year's race, which will begin at 1 p.m. 
Hogan said planning the Regatta was slightly more difficult this year because of the economic downturn. 
"Getting a sponsorship was chal­lenging because so many companies have cutback<>, and the first thing to go is charitable donations," he said. "So getting responses from people was hard." 
But he was successful in securing sponsorships from some campus favorites-Papa John's Pizza, Coca­Cola and Krispy Kreme doughnuts. 
Hogan said another challenge was setting a date for the Regatta, given that the weather could be anything from sunny skies to a bliz­zard. 
'There is always the prevalent challenge of whether the weather will comply," he said. "The glorious weather of South Bend doesn't always comply with the wishes of the Regatta." 
The event costs $40 to enter and the proceeds will go the Phoenix­based charity Andre House, which serves the poor and the homeless in the area. 
Hogan said the winning teams will receive a handful of exciting prizes. 
"There are trophies for the win­ners, free pizza coupons from Papa John's and the ultimate pride of winning the Fisher Regatta," he said. "It's something to tell your grandkids about." 
The Regatta attracts many spec­tators each year because of the large number of unusual boats in which students proudly attempt to stay afloat. 
"Last year, there was a 10-by-12 foot piece of plywood with Fisher­Price basketball hoops and they played five-on-five basketball," Hogan said. "They didn't make it very far, but you've got to give them respect." 
Even though the event's boat­building rules operate on the honor system, Hogan said there are always teams that try to find loop­holes. 
"I don't want to name names," Hogan said. "But there's a dorm 

Students race during the Fisher Regatta in 2007. This year's race, featuring 35 teams, will begin at 1 p.m. tomorrow and benefit Andre House, a Phoenix-based charity that serves the homeless. 
that always cheats." and your responsibilities increase "I know the exact best strategy. 
Hogan, a junior, has been involved every year. Junior year, you can be It's not only about getting yours, it's in planning the Regatta since his the Regatta commissioner." about preventing the other guy from freshman year. When asked what the best strate­getting theirs," he said. "My old bas­
"You apply for [the committee] gy for winning was, Hogan advised ketball coach told me that." freshman year and then you're on it that teams should try their best, and every year," he explained. "The hope that their effort ends up being Contact Irena Zajickova freshmen are Regatta apprentices better than everyone else's. at izajicko@nd.edu 

THE 



BSERVER 

Join the can1pus organization that brings the News Madeline Buckley (mbucklev@nd.edu)
., ., 
news to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Ashley Charnley (acharnOl@saintmarys.edu) campuses every day. 

Sports Matt Gamber (mgamber@nd.edu) We're looking for new staff in all departments. 
Scene Jess Shaffer Gshaffel@nd.edu) Join The Observer staff. Contact us today. Photo Ian Gavlick (igavlick@nd.edu) 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 24, 2009 

Fifth graders visit campus 
Education classes host pen pals for 'glimpse of college life' 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Younger kids are a rare site on campus, but two education classes hosted fifth graders from a local public school Thursday to give them a glimpse of college life. 
The classes, "Education, Schooling and Society" and "Coloring Outside the Lines," both taught by Professor Joyce Long, have been exchanging letters with students from Brown Intermediate Center all semester. 
The two classes visited their 

pen pals at Brown earli­er in the semester, but Thursday was the first time the f:tfth graders came to Notre Dame. 
Long said the visit ben­efited both groups of students. The elementary school stu­dents got a taste of what college life is like, some­
they'll get out of it is that this Cowell said the fifth graders could be the end product of gained a sense of what college 
them engaging  will  entail  
themselves  in  from  what  
their studies."  "Mainly, [the visit was]  they  saw  
Another key purpose of this visit was to show the pen pals that  for motivational purposes and a glimpse of what is possible."  today. "I think a lot of them, even though  
attending college  they live so  
is possible for anyone, Long said.  Joyce Long professor  close to Notre Dame, they don't  

"Mainly, [the visit was] for motivational purposes and a glimpse of what is possible," Long said. 
During their visit, the stu­

"!think [the project}' emphasizes the need to reach out to these kids in the community. We live so close to them and they live so close to this great University, so we need to take advantage of that." 
Melissa Cowell sophomore 
dents went to the digi­tal movie theater in Jordan Hall for an interactive science les­son. They also spent time with their indi­vidual pen pals and ate a meal at South Dining Hall. 
Melissa Cowell, a sophomore who plans have a con­

cept of what the school is like or what it's like to be in college," she said. "So we're showing them what it's like to be here." 
Cowell said a key part of the pen pal project was making an impact in the community, which is sometimes difficult to do while living in the "Notre Dame bubble." 
"I think [the project] empha­sizes the need to reach out to these kids in our community," she said. "We live so close to them and they live so close to this great University, so we need to take advantage of that." 
Long said the education class­es hope that the fifth graders will remember the visit and emerge from the experience with a more comprehensive picture of what college entails. 
"For many of them, they have no idea what college means," Long said. "When they get back to their own school, they can compare what they saw and have a more enlarged view of what campus is like." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

SMC welcomes vice 
president for Mission 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's President Carol Ann Mooney and Sr. Joy O'Grady, president of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, jointly appointed Sr. Mary Louise Gude to join the Saint Mary's community as the new vice president for Mission. 
The position for vice presi­dent to lead the Division for Mission became available after Sr. Rose Anne Schultz, the first vice president of the Division for Mission, announced her retirement this spring, according to a press release. 
Gude was encouraged to apply for the position based on her experience with both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities. 
"Among other things, I spent eight months in Le Mans, [France] preparing to celebrate the beatification of Basil Moreau and help organize the summer C.S.C. history session in Le Mans," Gude said. 
Gude said she is positive about her new position. 
"My position is one of serv­ice to the college community. Saint Mary's has a rich her­itage, and one facet of my job will be to nurture that heritage," Gude said. "This happens in many and varied ways, and I look forward to the challenge." 

Gude said her responsibili­ties fall into three cate­gories: to make the history and the mission of the Sisters of the Holy Cross known to the College com­munity and to interpret its relevance today, to supervise those college departments explicitly charged with implementing that mission and to act as a liaison between the College's vari­ous constituencies in order to ensure mission effective­ness. 
Gude graduated from Saint Mary's College in 1963. After earning a licentiate from the University of Montreal and a Ph.D. in French literature from the University of Pennsylvania, Gude returned to South Bend. She has served as an assistant vice president for Student Affairs and taught in the Department of Romance Languages at Notre Dame. 
Gude has also served at Saint Mary's as an assistant professor of French and department chair. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyOI @saintmarys.edu 


Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On~Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574) 234-2436 
thing that many of them had never experienced before. 
"We know from their letters that the only thing they know about Notre Dame is football. Coming onto campus, they're actually going to see what Notre Dame is like," Long said. "One of the things we hope to pursue a career in educa­tion, said she enjoyed spending time with her pen pal Ariel. 
"It was a lot of fun," Cowell said. "It was cool to see the kids' reactions to the campus." 
During her visit with Ariel, Cowell took her on a campus tour. 


-------------------------------------------, 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 24, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVEKs WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Tally has 87,215 Iraqis dead 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's government has recorded 87,215 of its citizens killed since 2005 in violence ranging from catastrophic bombings to execution-style slayings, accord­ing to government statistics obtained by The Associated Press that break open one of the most closely guarded secrets of the war. 
Combined with tallies based on hospital sources and media reports since the begin­ning of the war and an in-depth review of available evidence by The Associated Press, the figures show that more than 110,600 Iraqis have died in violence since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. 
Militants burn NATO fuel tankers 
ISLAMABAD -Dozens of militants armed with guns and gasoline bombs attacked a truck terminal in northwestern Pakistan on Thursday and burned five tanker trucks carry­ing fuel to NATO troops in Mghanistan, police said. 
NATO and U.S. commanders are seeking alternative transport routes into landlocked Afghanistan amid mounting assaults on the critical main supply line through Pakistan. 
Militants attacked the truck depot near the city of Peshawar before dawn, hurling gasoline bombs which set fire to the five tankers, said Abdul Khan, a local police official. 
Security guards fled and the assailants made their escape before police arrived, Khan said. Several truckers drove their vehicles out of the terminal to save them from the flames, which were later doused by firefighters, he said. 
NATO and the U.S. military insist that their losses on the transport route remain minimal and have had no impact on their expanding operations in Mghanistan. Most of the fuel for 
U.S. troops in Mghanistan comes from Central Asia. 


NATIONAL NEWS 

Six years in prison for airing Hezbollah 
NEW YORK -A Pakistani immigrant whom a prosecutor called "Hezbollah's man in New York City" has been sentenced to nearly six years in prison for airing the Lebanese militant group's television station. 
Javed Iqbal was ordered by a federal judge in Manhattan on Thursday to serve five years and nine months for putting the broadcasts of AI Manar among stations he sent to customers in New York. 
Prosecutor Eric Snyder says Iqbal helped the TV station get out Hezbollah's message. He says the organization had killed more Americans than any other terrorist group before Sept. 11, 2001. 
Iqbal lawyer Josh Dratel says his client didn't intend to aid Hezbollah as he tried to build his television station distribution company. 
Kans. gov. vetoes abortion bill 
TOPEKA -Kansas Gov. Kathleen Sebelius has vetoed a bill that would rewrite a state law restricting late-term abortions. 
The measure vetoed Thursday would have required doctors performing late-term abor­tions to report additional information on those procedures to the Kansas Department of Health and Environment. 
The bill also would have allowed women or girls who later believed their abortions were illegal to sue the doctors. Their husbands or, in the case of minors, a parent or guardian, also could sue. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. to crack down on puppy mills 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana lawmakers appeared to move a bit closer to a compromise on a contentious bill to regulate large-scale dog breeding operations on Thursday -the same day a group of pet lovers brought their dogs to the Statehouse to demand a crackdown on so-called puppy mills. 
Both the House and Senate have approved versions of the bill to regulate dog breeders. The Senate plan would require breeders to comply with U.S. Department of Agriculture regulations if they have more than 20 adult female dogs able to be bred. 

S.C. wildfire forces thousands to flee 
Blaze is state's biggest in three decades, damages hundreds of homes 
Associated Press 
MYRTLE BEACH -South 
Carolina's biggest wildfire in 
more than three decades ­
a blaze four miles wide ­
destroyed dozens of homes 
Thursday and threatened 
some of the area's world­
famous golf courses at the 
height of the spring tourist 
season. 

The flames, fed by tinder­dry scrubland, forced hun­dreds of people to flee, and some took shelter in the House of Blues honkytonk. 
The fire got within 1 1/2 miles of Route 17, the main coastal road that links beachfront towns and is lined with fast-food restaurants, beachwear stores and trinket shops. By Thursday evening, the flames were about 3 miles west of the highway. 
The blaze scorched about 
23 square miles over the past 
two days and then veered 
north, heading away from 
the high-rise hotels that line 
Myrtle Beach. There were no 
reports of injuries, and 
authorities said they had not 
determined what sparked 
the flames. 

Fueled by dry underbrush 
and highly combustible 
swamp peat, the blaze lev­
eled about 70 homes and 
damaged 100 others early 
Thursday as the fire jumped 
a four-lane highway. The 
flames also forced authorities 
to evacuate 2,500 people. 
Much of the damage was County's fire chief, described After they were evacuated, run the area's golf courses, concentrated at Barefoot some homes as left with only some 200 residents spent the hotels and other businesses. Landing, a sprawling com­"skeletal remains." rest of the day in and around Just a few miles south plex of houses, condomini­The fire appeared to hop­the nearby House of Blues, along the coast, people were ums and golf courses sepa­scotch through the neighbor­where officials gave them unaffected. Golfers kept their rated from the main route hood, which was draped in a updates. Hours later, they tee times and tourists spread through Myrtle Beach by the thick haze, and some of the were ushered inside to watch out on the beaches. Hotel Intracoastal Waterway. rubble still smoldered hours a video of the fire damage managers, who offered 
"The house is completely later. because they were not yet vouchers to the evacuees, gone," said Rachel Plaga, a One home was burned to allowed to return to their said they could not even 38-year-old nurse, who later its slab, while the brick homes. smell the smoke. began sobbing. "It was like house next door appeared Officials said the blaze As ash fell, the governor Armageddon back there. undamaged, an American appeared to die out at issued a state of emergency, There was nothing. flag still flying. Barefoot Landing by mid­and schools closed early. But Everything was gone. My At another home, the car morning, only to move paral­North Myrtle Beach Mayor whole life. My kid's whole in the driveway was charred, lel to the waterway. Marilyn Hatley managed to life. It was horrific." but the only damage to the Authorities worried it could promote the area while 
Another woman who broke house was melted vinyl sid­jump the channel, a canal as announcing the number of 
down in tears had to be ing. At one address, every­wide as a football field that homes destroyed. 
helped to a seat by a Red thing burned except the separates the city's main "Certainly come on to the 
Cross worker. garage door, which remained drag from the homes of Grand Strand area and enjoy 
Garry Alderman, Horry standing. retirees and people who help yourself," Hatley said. 

IRAQ 



Suicide bombers kill 78 in Baghdad 
and key areas around the capital. one of the most wanted leaders of a Associated Press The insurgent push is still nowhere militant network linked to al-Qaida. near the scale of violence in past years, The reported capture of Abu Omar 
BAGHDAD -Suicide bomb blasts but it has undermined confidence that al-Baghdadi, the head of the Islamic tore through crowds waiting for food Iraq's security gains were on solid foot­State of Iraq, could mark a setback to aid in central Baghdad and inside a ing at a time when the U.S. military is insurgents as they try to intensify roadside restaurant filled with Iranian shifting its focus and resources to attacks after a relative lull. pilgrims Thursday, killing at least 78 Mghanistan. In the past, however, Iraqi officials people in Iraq's deadliest day in more Thursday's attacks happened as have reported al-Baghdadi's arrest or than a year. American soldiers who specialize in killing, only to acknowledge later that 
The toll -at least 31 dead in clearing bombs from roads boarded a they were wrong. The U.S. military has Baghdad and 4 7 to the north in Diyala plane from Iraq to the Taliban heart­even said al-Baghdadi could be a ficti­province -follows a series of high­land in southern Afghanistan, part of tious character used to give an Iraqi profile attacks this month blamed on the largest movement of personnel and face to an organization dominated by Sunni insurgents. The violence high­equipment between the two war fronts. foreign al-Qaida fighters. lights potential security gaps as Iraqi Iraqi authorities, meanwhile, say A U.S. military could not confirm the forces increasingly take the lead role they have struck back at the heart of arrest, said a spokesman, 1st Lt. John from U.S. forces in protecting Baghdad the insurgency: claiming they arrested A. Brimley. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 24, 2009 
Abortion 
continued from page I 
to McGurn, "one issue on a political scorecard." 
Notre Dame should stand united on the proposition· that "the unborn belong to no political party; no human right is safe when the right to life is denied; and we will accept no calculus of justice that seeks to trade that right to life for any other," McGurn said. 

He agreed "[don't think we need truths and the 
that other to share our politics dignity of the human rights, human exis­
to share our

including war tence.
principles. " 

and capital "A civilization punishment, which sanctions "deserve seri­William McGurn abortion as a 
ous treat­human right is
former speechwriter 

ment." in some essen­
for President 

But he tial way writing
George W. Bush

argued that its death war-
most profound truths and its most public actions," he said. 
This witness to life is the essence of the Catholic char­acter of the University, according to McGurn. 
"This witness is the only real reason for a University of Notre Dame," he said. 
The witness is derived from the belief that "self­evident truths about the dig­nity of each human life" truly exist, McGurn said. 
Legalized 
abortions 
threaten these 
"all pleas for other impor­tant human rights are 'false and illusory' if we do not defend with 'maximum determination' the funda­mental right to life upon which all other rights rest." 
These other rights are contingent on the protection of the right to life, according to McGurn. 
"The unborn child's right to life represents the defin­ing civil rights issue of our day," McGurn said. 
As a civil rights issue, abortion is an issue of morality, not of politics, he said. 
"I don't think we have to share our politics to share our principles," he said. 
Catholics are called to be "witnesses to life," McGurn said. 
"To be a witness, an insti­tution must order itself so that all who look upon it see a consonance between its 

rant," McGurn 
said. 
Notre Dame holds an important role in the debate over abortion, McGurn said. The University "remains one of the few institutions capa­ble of providing a witness for life in the fullness of its beauty and intellectual integrity," he said. "America is waiting to hear her voice." 
Notre Dame should work to "engage" its guests who do not agree with Catholic teaching, such as President Barack Obama, who will deliver the University's Commencement address next month, according to McGurn. 
This engagement should be "cordial" and "gracious" and the University should be open to debate, he said. 
However, to bring a guest who rejects the right to life to the University "on the idea that all that divided us was one political issue" would be a betrayal of the witness, McGurn said. 
Despite the University's decision to invite Obama for the Commencement address, McGurn argues that "the witness for life is alive at Notre Dame." lie cites the Notre Dame Fund to Protect Human Life, the work of teacher and the students who attended the March for Life in January as examples of the strength of this wit­ness. 
McGurn said that he is not worried about what Obama will say at Commencement. 
"1 worry about the sym­bol," he said. 
He also encouraged those who disagree with the invi­tation to allow the seniors to have their graduation. 
" I don 't thin k "p eo pIe should have their gradua­tion disrupted," McGurn said. "I think you can have a protest, but I don't think you should be rude." 
He expressed his disap­pointment with the "unwise" decision to invite Obama. 
"I am very disappointed with [University President] Fr. John Jenkins right now," McGurn said. 
However, he did not call for Jenkins' resignation. 
"Even if he resigned, my issue [that Notre Dame be a witness to life] would still be here," McGurn said. 
"I would just like Notre Dame to be as consistent in advancing her positions as 
President Obama  is  with  
his," he said.  
McGurn's  lecture  was  

sponsored by the Center for Ethics and Culture, "in the spirit of Fr. Jenkins's call to dialogue," Center for Ethics and Culture director David Solomon said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel @nd.edu 

Ebadi 
continued from page I 
tain that it is actually the Islamic governments' inter­pretation of Islamic law that is incompatible. 
"Non-democratic Islamic governments get power from religion and not votes from people, and they believe they have to guard Islam" she said. "If the government relies on its own interpreta­tion of Islam, any political criticism of the government is deemed a criticism of Islam." 
Ebadi said this interpreta­tion of Islamic law is a means of retaining power. 
"If Islam is interpreted this way, the government loses ground and the people will be able to take over," she said. 
Ebadi said Western theo­rists who write about a "clash of civilizations" between Islamic and Western societies also contribute to the idea that Islam is not compatible with democracy 
"Some who believe Islam is not compatible with human rights believe democracy and human rights are just Western philosophies and they are not compatible with Islam," she said. "I do not accept this theory." 
She said there are inconsis­tencies in the idea of a cul­ture clash between Western and Eastern civilizations. 
"If there is a clash, how do you justify the relationship between Saudi Arabia and the United States?" she asked. 
There are human rights violations in Iran, Ebadi said. But Iranian citizens should have the job of implementing human rights -not foreign soldiers. 
"We not only oppose an attack on Iran, but we also oppose a threat of attack on Iran because the government will oppress people based on national security," she said. 
Ebadi criticized United States military presence in Iraq, expressing the hope that the new administration "shows better practice of for­eign policy." 
"America attacked Iraq on the excuse that Saddam Hussein is a dictator with weapons of mass destruc­tion," she said. "However, when American soldiers did­n't find weapons, they said bringing democracy was the goal. Was Saddam Hussein the only dictator in the world? The difference was there's a lot of oil in Iraq that doesn't exist in other coun­tries." 
Ebadi said the theory of human rights is an idea not confined to a specific culture, religion or country. 
"These are international principles," she said. "It has nothing to do with East or West." 
In order to resolve the problem of human rights vio­lations in the world, Ebadi stressed cooperation. 
"Let's plant the tree of cooperation like the earth," she said. "Let's be kind to each other. Kind." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuddey@nd.edu 
Gourmet ~anawic~es, ~oloas &~oups Plus fantastic FAIR TRADE (offees Just aWol~ from (ampus 
$ 
Support local indie establishments Open fvery Day! faison Plaza, 1~31 faison ~a, ~1~~16 One Per fiSn $We Have Wi·Fi! [xpires Moy 2008 (orry Out Avoila~le 


:s s: 
I 

I .
, $ One Per Vistt $ 
: [xpires May 2008 

,-.-.·--.-----------------, 

at anesi@nd.edu. 



THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Friday, April 24, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 7,957.06 +70.49
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,221 92 1,478 3,486,277,876 
AM~ l;~l~fll .it34illil 
NASDAQ 1,652.21 +6.!)9 
NYSE 5,37~~~~ +81.4~\ 
S&P 500 851.92 +8.37 
NIKKEI (Tokyo) tM.~4~;11;t;,.,;: : o:il'1 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,018.23 -12.43 

BK OF AMERICA (SAC)  +6.78  +0.56  8.82  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  -1.54  -{1.05  3.20  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  +0.98  +0.83  85.37  
FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS)  +10.44  +0.74  7.85  
Treasuries  
lO·YEAR NOTE  -1.25  -0.037  2.93  
13-WEEK BILL  -29.63  -0.040  0.09  
30·YEAR BOND  ·0.97  ·0.037  3.80  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.20  ..().023  1.89  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  0.00  48.85  

GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +14.10 906.60 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.35 82.25 
Exchange Rates YEN 97.8550 EURO 1.3124 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2254 BRITISH POUND 1.4672 
IN BRIEF 
Microsoft sales drop for first time 
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp. said Thursday its quarterly revenue fell from the previous year for the first time in its 23-year history as a public company, while its profit dived 32 percent. 
The shortfall illustrated the toll the reces­sion has taken on the world's largest software maker, even though Microsoft remains one of the richest and most profitable companies. In January, Microsoft said it needed to resort to its first mass layoffs, cutting 5,000 jobs, and on Thursday it announced it would do away with merit pay increases for employees in the next fiscal year. 
Microsoft did not issue earnings guidance for the rest of the year, and it offered no hope for a rebound in the current quarter. 
"I didn't see any improvement at the end of the quarter that gives me encouragement that we're at the bottom and coming out of it," said Chris Liddell, Microsoft's chief financial officer. 
Wise. to require cochlear implants 
MADISON -Wisconsin could become the first state requiring private insurance companies to cover cochlear implants for children with severe hearing problems. 
The state Legislature passed a bill Thursday requiring private health insurance plans to cover cochlear implants, hearing aids and related treatment for those under the age of 18. Gov. Jim Doyle has promised to sign it into law. 
While hearing aids help some children with hearing loss, those with more severe problems may be candidates for cochlear implants. The devices turn sound into electrical impulses that activate the hearing nerve, allowing the deaf to hear. 
Supporters say some families with deaf chil­dren cannot afford to pay for implants that cost $50,000 or more when excluded by insurance policies. They say getting the devices early is crit­ical to help children develop their language skills. 
"This bill is going to allow children to keep their hearing, to become members of society, to go to school and keep a job," said state Rep. David Cullen, D-Milwaukee. 
Several states already require insurance com­panies to cover some hearing aid costs, but advo­cates said Wisconsin would be the first to extend the mandate to cochlear implants. 
GM to temporarily shut 13 plants 
Assembly plants closed for up to two months; thousands ofemployees lose jobs 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. said Thursday it will temporari­ly close 13 assembly plants in the U.S. and Mexico ­some for more than two months -laying off more than 26,000 workers to pare back a bloated inven­tory. 
The closures, which will start in May, vary by facto­ry from as short as three weeks to a long as 11, including the normal two­week July shutdown to change from one model year to the next. 
GM said the shutdowns will help control high deal­er inventories and bring manufacturing in line with sales. The company plans to cut production by 190,000 vehicles and reduce inventory from the current 767,000 to 525,000 by the end of July. 
More than 26,000 hourly and salaried employees will be laid off at the affected assembly plants, but there will be thousands more layoffs and tempo­rary factory closures when GM works out its schedules for engine, transmission and parts stamping facto­ries. 

The troubled automaker has 22 assembly plants in North America as well as dozens of other parts and powertrain factories. government it plans to that will see additional factories. 
Laid-off hourly workers close five more factories as down weeks are in Clarke said he can't will get unemployment part of its restructuring Arlington, Texas; Bowling remember the company benefits and supplemental plan, and its CEO said Green, Ky.; Detroit­ever having as many lay­pay from the company that additional closures are Hamtramck, Mich.; Flint, offs and plant shutdowns. amounts to most of their possible. Mich.; Fort Wayne, Ind.; He said President Barack base wages. Salaried work­He also said the company Lansing. Mich.; Lordstown, Obama's auto task force ers also will get some isn't making the cuts Ohio; Pontiac, Mich.; was aware of the shut­income, GM North America because it sees sales wors­Shreveport, La.; Spring downs, but the decisions President Troy Clarke said. ening beyond current pro-Hill, Tenn.; Wilmington, were made by GM manage­
In a conference call with jections. • Del.; Wentzville, Mo.; and ment. reporters, Clarke said the "Instead of spending the Silao, Mexico. Obama said through a shutdowns are not a sign whole year to get the The longest shutdown is spokeswoman that GM will that GM is headed into inventory in line, we really 11 weeks at Fort Wayne, have to make difficult deci­bankruptcy protection. needed to get it in line which makes the Chevrolet sions during its restructur­
Clarke would not say much quicker," he said. Silverado and GMC Sierra ing. "He is committed to exactly how many workers GM normally shuts down pickup trucks. standing behind GM during would be laid off, nor its assembly plants for two The Associated Press this process to achieve a would he say if any of the weeks each summer to first reported Wednesday strong, viable auto industry factories would be closed prepare for the new model that GM planned to tem­in the long-term," the for good. GM has told the year, but assembly plants porarily close most of its spokeswoman said. 


IMF, World Bank want more action 
Associated Press 

need for more" stimulus spending by Those will be followed by talks over 
WASHINGTON -The heads of the individual countries in 2010. The IMF's dinner that night among the Group of International Monetary Fund and board agreed to double the borrowing 20 nations, which adds major emerg­World Bank pledged new resources limits for 78 of the poorest countries in ing powers such as China, Russia, Thursday to fight the worst global an effort to meet the needs of develop­India and Brazil to the mix. downturn since the Great Depression, ing nations harmed by the downturn. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner while warning that the crisis is far Also Thursday, World Bank president will emphasize that repairing the U.S. from over. Robert Zoellick said it will provide $45 banking system is a "top priority," a 
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, managing billion over the next three years to sup­senior Treasury official said Thursday. director of the International Monetary port road building and other infra­An "important component" of that Fund, said U.S. and European leaders structure projects in poor nations. effort are the "stress tests" that regula­need to fulfill pledges they made dur­The comments came as finance offi­tors are currently conducting on 19 of ing a summit in London earlier this cials from around the world were gath­the nation's largest banks, the official month to clean up their banking sys­ering in Washington for three days of said. tems by removing distressed assets discussions beginning Friday that seek The tests measure how the banks from banks' balance sheets. With the to resolve differences over the best will fare under a severe recession and right policies, the world economy could approach to take to combat the current are intended to determine which insti­recover in the first half of 2010, he downturn. tutions need more capital. The addi­said. The discussions are set to begin tional money, if needed, could come 
"We still have long months of eco­Friday with meetings of fmance minis­from the private sector or the govern­nomic distress in front of us," Strauss­ters from the Group of Seven wealthy ment. The Treasury Department is Kahn said. nations -the U.S., Japan, Germany, expected to release the framework for 
Strauss-Kahn said there "may be France, Britain, Italy and Canada. the stress tests Friday. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 24, 2009 
Spooners 
continued from page 1 
ticipate in one of the ski team's favorite pastimes. 
··we spoon at the top of the course for warmth," Murdy said. "We decided to do it again because it's really a great time." 
New this year to the event was the added incentive to raise awareness for the Alpine Children's Charity, a charity founded by sopho­more Nick DeTrempe, also a member of the ski team. 
"The goal of this year's event was twofold," Mahoney said. "We want everyone to have a great time and also raise awareness for a great cause." 
DeTrempe said he and his cousins founded the charity five years ago, and it has since raised over $800,000. The main fundraisers for the charity are ski-a-thons. 
"We raise money for juve­nile diabetes, HIV and AIDS and other illnesses," he said. "They wanted to associate the world record with the charity and our charity was the one they chose." 
In order for the event to qualify for the Guinness Book of World Records, the spoon train organizers had to meet several requirements and deadlines. 
"We had to sign up online and e-mail them the plan," Murdy said. "Then, we also had to e-mail them forms which were signed." 
She also said Guinness had strict guidelines that had to be adhered to in order for the attempt to count. 


"We had to have two wit­nesses to count and testify the record was actually broken," Murdy said. "We also have to submit photos, a video and any press the event received." 
Although the actual spoon­ing portion only lasted about five minutes, Mahoney said planning for this year's attempt began in January. 
"Last year we were a little late with our registration for the Guinness Book of World Records, so this year we made sure to register way in advance," he said. 
The organizers of the event enlisted the help of Breyan Tornifolio, rector of Pasquerilla West Hall, and Gary Chamberland, a visiting instructor in the Theology Department, to serve as the official witnesses of the event. 
Although the group will have successfully broken tho reeord pending approval from the people at Guinness, Mahoney said he hopes tho event will continue. 
"I really hope this will earry on," he said. 'Til be around for another year so I hopn to try and break this year's reeord next year." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

VPI 
continued from page 1 
fundraising." 
She said VPI eould improve by raising awarnness about violenee on a global sealH and by bneoming a "flagship" for othnr Catholie schools doing similar work. 
Hakoczy Hussell said VPI needs more experience before it ean fully accomplish its goals. 
"I'm not surprised that I don't feel likn we're fully hashed on the l'lagship pieee but I feel pretty confident that we're heading in the right direction," Hakoczy Russell said. 
But she said VPI has been successful enough to continue next year, and will host three major events per semester. The festival will be one of those events and will take place again next spring, she said. 
The festival will begin with a film that "explores how music videos and the media influ­ences our perception of sex and power," Hakoczy Russell said. 
There will also be a corn hole tournament with a $5 entry fee to raise money for SOS of Madison Center, the Rape Crisis Center for St. .Joseph County, she said. 
Hakoczy Hussell said she hopes corn hole will be an attraction for people who would not have otherwise attended a GHC event and hopes that these people will have the opportunity to hear the festival's message. 
"We're hoping with a festival like this that someone might come just because they like to play corn hole," she said. 

The festival will also feature a speech from Donald McPherson, who is a member of the College Football Hall of Fame and a veteran of the NFL. llis speech is entitled "You Throw Like a Girl" and will take place at 6 p.m. on South Quad. 
He will focus on social power and also speak about the explicit and implicit forms of violence, Rakoczy Bussell said. 
"So everything from the way we talk to the jokes we tell or our silence on to overt things we do that endanger ourselves and others, like excessive drinking," she said. 
The event will conclude with a Notre Dame student speak­out, in which student pieces of writing regarding sexual vio­lence will be read out loud. Either the author will read it, or in the case of anonymity, someone will read it for them, Rakoczy Russell said. 
A dance about sexual assault and violence will conclude the speak-out. 
"Sometimes the art is a way to express those things that language doesn't really cap­ture," she said. 
Rakoczy Russell said there will be brats, burgers and suo­cones at the festival. T-shirts will also be sold, she said. 
"The one thing that I think is distinctive about the festival is that ... it's the kind of thing we hope will be accessible to someone who wouldn't nor­mally come to [a GHCJ event," Hakoczy Hussell said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Eucharistic procession to be held on ca111pus 
Special to The Observer 
A Eucharistic Procession will be held on the University of Notre Dame campus Sunday following the 11:45 
a.m. Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

The procession, led by Fr. Kevin Russeau, director of Notre Dame's Old College undergraduate seminary, will move through Notre Dame's South Quad, stopping at altars placed before the stat­ues of the Sacred Heart of .Jesus, Our Lady of the University and Notre Dame's founder, Fr. Edward Sorin, and the steps of the Main Building. 
During the procession pub­lic prayers will be offered for a deepened respect and pro­tection of all human life from conception to natural death, an increase in vocations to the religious life and bless­ings on the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and Holy Cross Colleges. 

Once a yearly event at the University, Eucharistic pro­cessions through campus fell out of practice in the years following the Second Vatican Council, but the custom was revived five years ago, reflecting a renewed interest in classical devotions to the Sacrament of the Eucharist among Notre Dame students. 
By extolling the consecrated host, these public devotions celebrate the belief that Christ is truly present in the Eucharist. Eucharistic proces­sions, or "Corpus Christi" pro­cessions as they are often called, using the Latin words for "Body of Christ," are a tradition dating back at least to the 13th century. The tra­dition was widely suppressed by the Protestant Heformation of the 16th century in much of northern Europe. In response, Catholic communi­ties redoubled their zeal for the practice and towns often competed in sponsoring elab­orate and well-attended pro­cessions on the holy day of Corpus Christi. The proces­sions remain especially popu­lar throughout Latin America and southern Europe. 

"During the procession, in a very real way, we take our Lord outside of our church walls and into the modern world," Husseau said. "Taking our faith into the world is not a new call to us Christians, but for various reasons we can sometimes compartmen­talize our faith. We worship on Sundays and other occa­sions but fail to recognize that what we do at worship should have effect on our relationships, actions and words in the world. I've noticed in the past several years that people who encounter the procession have mixed reactions, won­dering if they should kneel or at least stop what they are doing as a sign of reverence, or if they should continue as if we were not processing by." 
Friday, April 24, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 



Police put ad on Craigslist 
Investigators hope to find other women victimized by Markoff 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Boston police placed an ad on Craigslist Thursday in an attempt to find other women who may have been victimized by Philip Markoff. 
Suffolk County District Attorney's Office spokesman Jake Wark said that Boston investigators hope the ad, posted in the "erotic services" section of the Web site. will persuade other possible victims to come forth. 
"Were you attacked or robbed at a Boston-area hotel after placing an ad on Craigslist?" the ad asked. "If so, you may have infor­mation that could aid the investigation into the April 10 armed robbery of a woman at the Westin Copley Place Hotel and the April 14 murder of a woman at the Marriott Copley Place Hotel. Both victims were attacked by a prospective client who had contacted them through ads placed on Craigslist." 
The posting does not mention Markoff by name, and Wark says investiga­
tors aren't sure there  are  
other victims.  
Markoff,  a  Boston  

University medical student. 
is charged in the April 14 killing of Julissa Brisman, a 25-year-old masseuse he met through Craigslist. He is also charged in a rob­bery of another masseuse that police say he met through Craigslist. 
Also Thursday, a law enforcement official, speak­ing to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the case, said Markoff had been placed on suicide watch at the Boston jail where he is being held. ABC News and The Boston Globe, citing unidentified law enforcement sources, reported that what appeared to be shoelace marks were found on his neck. 
Defense attorney John Salsberg told reporters he was concerned about Markoff's well-being but otherwise declined to com­ment on the reports. 
Jail officials declined to comment to The Associated Press, citing privacy rules. 
Investigators were not certain the Craigslist ad would produce new leads. 
"There may not be any other victims out there. but if there are and they have not seen or are not com­
fortable responding to our requests in the mainstream media, this may be a way to make contact with them," Wark said. 
Markoff has pleaded not guilty to charges of murder, armed robbery and kidnap­ping. 
Meanwhile, supporters of Markoff have launched a new Facebook group to rally around him. 
The new Facebook group called "Phil Markoff is Innocent Until Proven Guilty" describes itself as a forum to rally against the media and a culture "that has forgotten that people like Phil are suspects, not killers." 
Markoff was arrested Monday in Walpole, less than 20 miles southwest of Boston, as he drove with his fiancee, Megan McAllister, to Foxwoods Resort Casino in Connecticut. 
McAllister, who earlier this week said Markoff would not hurt anyone. is standing behind him, her father, James McAllister, told reporters Thursday. 
"She's still confident in Phil. Other than that, we're saying a lot of prayers," he said outside his home in Little Silver, N.J. 


Investigators build case for death of 9-year-old 
Associated Press 
FLINT, Mich. -A prosecutor said Thursday that investigators would be "working all night" to develop a criminal case in the death of a 9-year-old quadriple­gic girl whose body was found in a storage unit after her adoptive mother repeatedly insisted she was out of state. 
Charges could range from felony murder to lesser charges such as misdemeanor moving a corpse. The woman was arrested Wednesday after police found Shylea Myza Thomas' body in a black trash bag, stuffed into a plastic bin with mothballs and locked in a storage unit near Flint. 
Shylea had been taken out of school in January, and relatives told state officials they had not seen her in six weeks. At least one neighbor said she hadn't even been aware the little girl lived there. 
"This is a very sad and tragic case that hurts all of us involved in the ongoing investigation," Genesee County Prosecutor David Leyton said in a statement. "It appears that Shylea had a rough go in life." 
A court document filed in the family division of the Genesee County Circuit Court to seize cus­tody of seven other children who were living in the home identified the woman as 39-year-old Lorrie Thomas of Flint. Leyton said he did not know whether Thomas had a lawyer. 
Officials said the woman was a blood relative of Shylea's who adopted her through the state. Authorities were reviewing evi­dence and results from an autop­sy before deciding on charges, Leyton said at a late-afternoon news conference. 
"I've asked the investigators to do more witness interviews.... We're going to draft a couple more search warrants. The police are going to be working all night," he said. 
"Before I charge somebody with a crime of this magnitude, I want to be sure. There's more information I would like to have to help me make a decision," by Friday, the prosecutor said. 
The case unfolded this week when other relatives of the girl told the state Department of Human Services about possible neglect and said they hadn't seen the child in six weeks. 
A case worker, Aaron Clum. visited the home Monday and was unable to confirm Shylea's whereabouts. Clum said in the court document that Thomas told him the family was moving to Virginia and the girl was on her way with a friend. 
On Tuesday, the department asked Flint police to investigate. Thomas again insisted Shylea was bound for Virginia, Clum wrote, but that could not be con­firmed. 
VIOLENCE PREVENTION INITIATIVE 
NOW IS THE TIIVIE FESTIVAL ON THE QUAD 
Because t:here is a time for everyt:hlng -a time for music, a time f'or dancing, and most: of all, a t:ime t:o gat:her and celebrat:e our commit:ment: t:o overcome sexual violence 
Friday April 24,2009 
3:00-B:OOpm South Quad 
Dresrnvvorlds 3":-. a fHm expfodng how mvsic video~ and3:00-4:00 1:he n"ledta Influence OUJ' conc:ep'tlons of desJre~ sex.. and powe.r 
campus Cornhole Fundral"''"" $5 •·nlnln"lu<n dOnlMOIOn f.-...-tean11> of two P<OOPI..3:00-6:00 All proc0eds will go to SOS ofMadison Center. ttle Rape Cri.sis Cent.,r ofSt. Joseph County 
Oon~;ttd Mc.~·Phe.rson~ C(::dtE:>g*~ Foot:ball *'1a:ll <::tf Farnc.!H'~ A<::::t:iv~-st.. E.du<.:at:or .and Ferninist
6:00-7:30 Keynote Talk: You Throw Like a Girl 
7:30-8:00 Notre Dam.,. Student Speal< Out: 
FREE FOOD 
$5 T -SHIR.TS Cash, Visa and Mastercard accept:ed as payment: 




page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 24, 2009 
Operatives not to be prosecuted yet 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Attorney General Eric Holder left open the possibility Thursday to prosecuting former Bush administration officials but ruled out filing charges mere­ly over disagreements about policy. 
"I will not permit the crimi­nalization of policy differ­ences," Holder testified before a House Appropriations sub­committee. 
"However, it is my responsi­bility as attorney general to enforce the law. It is my duty to enforce the law. If I see evi­dence of wrongdoing I will pursue it to the full extent of the law," he said. 
Holder has made similar statements in the past, but he and other senior Obama administration officials are being scrutinized on the mat­ter since the government released four legal memos detailing harsh treatment of terror suspects authorized during the Bush administra­tion. 
Obama said last week that CIA operatives who followed the memos' instructions would not face prosecution. The president did not rule out charges against those who authorized and approved the methods -nor did Holder in his testimony. 
Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., who chairs the Appropriations Committee, criticized what he called the lies of the Bush administra­tion, yet he urged Holder to be careful in whatever course he took. 
"It seems to me the impor­tant question isn't whether or not there is widespread pros­ecution of people," Obey said. "The important question is 

Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Town homes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3,4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off* Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 


Only $350 per month, per student! 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 


(574) 234-2436 
whether or not we're going to strike the right balance between pursuing personal wrongdoing and making sure the country has the correct narrative about what did hap­pen." 
Congressional Democrats have expressed a strong desire to conduct their own investigation of those officials. 
Officials are still awaiting the results of an internal Justice Department investiga­tion into the actions of the memo-writers. 
Besides the question of 
prosecutions, the release of the four memos has also sparked debate over how many more classified details of the interrogation program should be released. 
"It is certainly the intention of this administration not to play hide and seek, or not to release certain things," said Holder. "It is not our intention to try to advance a political agenda or to try to hide things from the American people." 
Republicans -including former Vice President Dick Cheney -have urged the Obama administration to release other, still-secret doc­uments detailing what intelli­gence was gained from the controversial interrogation techniques. 
"I think you have an obliga­tion to release the rest of the memos," said Rep. Frank Wolf, R-Va. 
Holder said he wasn't sure exactly which memos Cheney is referring to, because he hasn't seen them. The attor­ney general suggested such classified documents may exist at other agencies. 
''I'm the attorney general and I don't control many of the memos you might be talk­ing about," said Holder. 
Suit filed against fertiljzer company 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY. Mo. -A com­pany whose factory in north­west Missouri gave farmers fertilizer that critics say con­tained a cancer-causing chemi­cal disputed the claims Thursday and defended its environmental record. 
Prime Tanning Corp., of Hartland, Maine, issued a statement in response to a law­suit filed Wednesday accusing it of knowingly distributing sludge containing hexavalent chromium as free fertilizer to farmers in four counties. The metal, also known as chromi­um 6, is a known carcinogen. 
The company's St. Joseph plant was purchased this year 
Model unit OPEN NOW! 
by National Beef Leathers, a subsidiary of Kansas City-based National Beef Packing Co. that also was named in the lawsuit. On Thursday, National Beef Leathers said it would stop dis­tributing the sludge while it conducts its own investigation. 
Environmental activist Erin Brockovich told a crowd in Cameron on Wednesday night that hexavalent chromium may be linked to what some area residents believe is a high number of brain tumors in the region. 
State and federal agencies have tested several areas in and around Cameron in the last year in response to con­cerns about brain tumors, but not for chromium 6. The law-

Just north ofToll Road access
Roseland Square Condos 
207 Dixie Way North (IN 933) 
Six one level condos within view of 
Contact us at (574) 271-8961 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary~ 
or visit us online at: www.RoselanJTech.com

A unique opportunity in a high •'isibility location! 

Mar-Main Apartments 125 West Marion St South Bend, IN 574-233-2098 
. 

WW\V .n1annatn.com 
All Utilities Included Free Continental Breakfast Fitness Room and High Speed Internet is available at an additional cost 
suit and Brockovich's meeting were the first time hexavalent chromium in fertilizer had been publicly identified as a possible cause. 
"Based on our preliminary investigation, we believe there is no basis for the claims made in the litigation," said Grover Elliott, vice president and chief financial officer of Prime Tanning Co. "We look forward to cooperating fully with state and federal agencies in their review and investigation." 
The lawsuit, filed by two northwest Missouri residents, accuses Prime Tanning of not telling the state that the sludge left over from tanning process­es at the plant contained hexa­valent chromium. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
----·--­
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
Friday, April 24, 2009 
page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mart Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@11d.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@1ld.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbri1lk@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the smdems of the University ofNotre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions n:garding ObsmJer policies should be directed to F.ditor-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

11K OWrYcT (USPS 599 2-400fl) is pu.bti,.;hcd Monday dnuugh Fridayaapr during cum and v,1c:ui011 p<:rimLI, A~uhscriprion w n~~ Observer is $120 fur one academic 
yc:a1; SClS. fnr une ~~:mcstcr. 
The Ohscn-er is. published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addIt$$ corrcq)tms to: 
Nor~ Oount, IN 46S56-0n9 ·Ikohstrvrr 
PeriodiaJ poa:rage p;~id at Norte (}.jmc eo.So.n? 
;md additional mailing otlir.n. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46'55(')-()779 
The Obstmr is il mcm~r of du~ Auoci.ucd Press, All reproduClion righrs arc reserved. 
Student response upholds University character 
It has now been five weeks since President Barack Groups like ND Response and the Progressive Leadership Obama was announced as Notre Dame's May 17 Council, who have organized dignified responses and Commencement speaker, and the controversy that this encouraged healthy discussion, have helped uphold the decision has generated has now unquestionably touched true nature of Notre Dame at a time when outsiders every member of the Notre Dame community, and so many threaten to tear it down. A large number of students on others around the nation and the world. both sides of the issue have inundated our Viewpoint sec­
Many of those contributing to the controversy exist com­tion with letters, which is indicative of the passion and pletely outside of the Notre Dame bubble, and they contin­care with which we approach this issue. ue to fuel the fire that the president's Commencement invi­The Notre Dame family is built on a sense of community tation has started. Yet the University's students should be unlike that found at any other university, and the young proud for avoiding being engulfed by the men and women who walk this campus on a proverbial flames. daily basis have refused to forget that. 
Our campus has been placed under a micro­Like any family, disagreements are scope in the past few weeks, but they --the OR~ERVER inevitable, and serious arguments between outside protest groups and national media those among us are to be expected from time who have over-politicized a non-political issue to time.
Editorial 
--ultimately aren't here for us. But like any family, we need to come togeth-
The outside groups with militant attitudes er more than ever in times like these. Students who see the Golden Dome as little more than a "golden have not, and must continue to never succumb to those opportunity" for their causes aren't here because they love who take adversarial, aggressive stances against our fami­the University or hope to defend its Catholic tradition. The ly. Notre Dame name is a high-profile one that attracts signif­Rather than denouncing the University and distancing icant media attention; it's the reason why so many have themselves from it, as some in this community have done, flocked to South Bend to use our campus as a platform for the University's students have remained strong in their their political agendas. commitment to the Notre Dame family. 
Yet under this microscope, our students have thrived. As We should all be proud of that. Proud that none -nei­alumni groups tally up the donations they're withholding ther those opposed to nor those in favor of Obama's invita­and pro-life radicals attempt to bombard our campus with tion --have shied away from the intelligent, mature dis­graphic language and images, students on this campus cussion of this important issue. have carried themselves with a level of class and maturity And, most of all, we should be proud that to those who that seems to have eluded many others. have pledged to "make this a circus," our reply has been 
There are students on both sides of this issue, but we loud and clear: haven't let that rip us apart. We won't let you. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Torture and Catholicism. 
Some might applaud the recent release of the torture memos by the Obama administration as heralding a new era of accountability, and hope­fully leading to an end of the heinous, dehumanizing practice of torture. However, Christie Pesavento ("Torture is in the eye of the beholder," April 
21) recently decried the release of the torture memos, because torture is awesome, and we shouldn't question the things our wise (as long as it's con­servative) government does. 
Her article was, essentially, a long list of typical right-wing arguments in favor of torture and government secrecy, but it was also a slap in the face to official Catholic doctrine. According to the Catholic Catechism, "Torture which uses physical or moral violence to extract confessions, punish the guilty, frighten opponents or satisfy hatred is contrary to respect for the person and for human dignity." It continues, "In recent times it has become evident that these cruel practices were neither necessary for public order, nor in conformity with the legitimate rights of the human person." 
It's quite obvious that the Catholic Church is unequivocally against torture (at least it has been since it did it all the time) but I haven't seen the outcry against torture as I have seen against, say, abortion, on this campus. Why is that? President Obama may have only indirect power over America's abor­tion rates --the past eight years have seen relatively little change in abor­tion, in spite of Bush being president and pro-life yet it is only Obama's stance on abortion that seems to matter to many on this campus. 
Michele Sagala ("The real issue," April 23) argues that the President con­tradicts "some of our most fundamental beliefs on life as Catholics." Some? Over the past few months, I've counted a single one-abortion. Now, I haven't been a Catholic for a long time, but I remember there being a cou­ple of other values that were important to your average Catholic. In fact, entire Sundays would pass without a single mention of abortion! 
Considering that such evils as torture are being, or at least have been, practiced by America's leaders, I ask that Catholics on this campus wake up, and realize that there is more to Catholicism than an aversion to abor­tion. 
James Spitalere 
seniOr 
off campus 
April23 

TooAv's STAFF 



THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, April 24, 2009 
Hooking up with the senior class 
What a year to be a senior. With less than a month remaining before the con­clusion of their beloved undergraduate education, chaos still looms on the Commencement horizon. One thing is cer­tain, this senior class will be remembered more for rabid political reaction rather than for the honor of hosting the President of the United States. 
It has been said that some places are made sacred by the people and events that graced them. Nearly two decades ago, Catholic Democratic New York Governor Mario Cuomo laid out his pro-choice position at Notre Dame. Both the governor's scholarly courage and the University's scholarly opposition made sacred Our Lady's cam­pus at that time. Unfortunately, many frus­trated and some racist protesters are bent on a messy public repudiation of the presi­dent rather than civilized discourse that would grace our campus. 
On campus, this year began with anoth­er disappointing football season replete with snowballs and security surveillance. The second semester kicked off a collapse of the men's basketball program. Both can be squarely blamed on the coaching staffs. Yet, during the seniors' tenure on campus, deserving teams like the men's hockey and women's soccer have fallen to the fickle­ness of sporting gods whose mission it is to thrill as well as disappoint. So seniors have learned that life is full of fickle disap­pointments. But how we react is the meas­ure of our character. 

Nationally, our senior class helped elect a most historic candidate to the presiden­cy. As a former political student activist at Notre Dame, this writer has endured decades of disappointment because President Obama is the first to build a suc­cessful majority coalition of students, pro­gressives and liberals. While I attended Notre Dame, our nation elected Richard Nixon -arguably the worst president of modern day until George W. Bush with his ideological zealots who disregarded the rule of law at every turn. 
Forty years ago, I too was a senior, albeit in high school. My four decades since have breezed by with a sprinkling of slow­motioned, memorable moments that I still savor today. Yet, those decades slipped through my fingers as quickly as the last four years have for the senior class. Take it from one who knows, remember to clasp onto every minute possible, for the best of time will sustain you like a hearty break­fast. 
Some day, your parents, friends, pets and lovers will pass at the most unexpect-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The ideal speaker 
Dear Fr. Jenkins, 
Like the overwhelming majority of my fellow graduating seniors I am absolute­ly outraged that President Barack Obama is our Commencement speaker. To force us to listen to such a heathen is despicable. However, instead of complain­ing I would like to offer a solution. 
I have taken the liberty of doing some research and found a man who I believe is an ideal candidate to address the graduates of Our Lady's University. Bruce Edwards Ivins was born in the Midwest and after a strong family upbringing converted to Roman Catholicism. Ivins 1, Obama 0. 
Ivins is also an extremely intelligent man. He is a microbioligist, a vaccinolo­gist and a researcher for the U.S. Army. A Catholic and a patriot, score another one for Ivins. Too boring you say? Ivins also plays the keyboard in a Celtic rock band and is the founder of the Frederick Jugglers club. I doubt that Obama will be doing the jig while tossing flaming bowling pins in the air. 
But, most importantly he is a staunch pro-life advocate. Ivins and his wife have stood up against abortions for years. In 2001, he sent a letter to pro-choice Catholic Senators Tom Daschle and Patrick Leahy asking them to reconsider their position. 
Yes, those letters may have also contained a few anthrax spores. A few numb­skulls down at the FBI did claim that he was "solely responsible for the deaths of five persons and the injury of dozens of others." Maybe his acts did inspire sev­eral others to send similar envelopes to abortion clinics across the U.S. But this is a man who has stong beliefs -strong Catholic beliefs -and has done some­thing about them. He's not standing around with pictures of dead babies. He is out there seeking vengeance and I feel he should be honored for his bravery. 
The only problem is that Ivins was found dead last summer when he overdosed on Tylenol PM. Wait, this guy is pro-life but he killed himself? Never mind stick with Obama. 
Dan Murphy semor off campus April22 

The writer of the above letter was the Sports Editor of The Observer for the 2008-2009 term. 

ed moment. Their images glaring back at you through your iPod will barely allow you the comfort you feel with them today. Simon and Garfunkel best describe that moment with the lyrics, "Long ago it must be, I have a photograph} Preserve your memories, they're all that's left you." 
Most importantly, never lose your digni­ty, humor or tolerance of others, especially those farthest from your comfort level. This column's recent tongue-in-cheek counter to the Cardinal Newman Society is the classic example of how destructive certainty in religion can become. A group acts irresponsibly -and especially Catholics who should be held to a higher standard -when they publicly chastise and condemn without dignity, humor and tolerance during a debate. 
Speaking of debate, early in this school year the debate over the definition of "hooking up" seemed to be a defming moment for the year, especially after "The Vagina Monologues" went on hiatus. In my day on campus, a hook-up was a sexual home run, period. The meaning was clear­ly a black and white meaning -either you hooked up or you did not. Forget first, sec­ond or third base. It was a home run or strikeout. We had no friends with benefits or BFF or BMF designations. The 1970s was a slow-motion time well remembered. 
But now in the Twittering era, every­thing takes on nuances which make this year's senior class one of great hope and ability. By and large, most seniors are not closed-minded zealots. In fact, they are the future face of our society. Seniors are beyond frowning upon interracial dating, gay persons and funny looking religious apparel. Those are the scars of older gen­erations. 
Seniors are at their best when they give a dollar to the drunk who uncomfortably begs while standing close to the ear win­dow at the traffic light. They are best when they smile at the stranger standing in line with them waiting to board a plane or when they eraek a humorous observa­tion to lighten both their own and other travelers' anxieties. Seniors are always at their absolute best when they treat a pet with love rather than as a master. 
Despite a sluggish economy, similar to when I graduated, the future is bright for this year's seniors. Those dudes will undoubtedly hook up with fate to make places sacred by gracing them. Let's hook up sometime soon too. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislatitJe and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Retnetnber Kevin 
Men and women of Notre Dame, We are saddened to say that our University is close to losing one of its most loyal sons. 
In December 2006, Kevin Healey, a high school senior, was diagnosed with osteosarcoma. This rare and especially dangerous cancer, initially discovered in his right tibia, would spread throughout his body over the next few years. Since his diagnosis, Kevin has fought an inspiring battle and lived life to its fullness in the face of profound adversity. He enrolled at Notre Dame with the class of 2011 and made the Dean's List in his first semester here, despite missing a third of his classes because he had to travel home to Cleveland for chemotherapy. 
Two and a half years and countless visits to the doctor after his diagnosis, Kevin's time is running short. He is bedridden, exhausted and "rarely coherent." His time is measured in days and hours. 
We, who attended St. Ignatius High School with Kevin, ask that you keep him and his family in your prayers. This University holds a special place in Kevin's heart. We are confident that your prayers can help ease his pain and bring com­fort to his family, who feel all of it, too. 
"Seek the Lord and his strength" (1 Chronicles 16:11). Seek strength for a fel­low student who has not allowed himself to stop fighting. Seek strength for a mother, father and sister in great need. 
For updates, visit kevinhealey.com A.M.D.G., 
Man Fanous Pat George Jimmy Michael Nick Ward Jeff Wolanin Class of 2009 Chris Cugliari Tom Dybicz John Gallagher Jared Jedick Andrew Kovach Barry Masin Corey McNeilly Justin Morrow Rob Parris John Ryan Adam Sims Phil Yuhas Class of2010 Pierce Coticchia Peter Hlabse Luke Stavole Mark Tupa Class of 20 I I Chris Chung Kevin Eller Michael Fedynsky Ray Flores Andrew Mironovich Sean Stefancin Class of2012 April23 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, April 24, 2009 
This year the Notre Dame community has witnessed many things. 
There have been the joyful: the Hawaii Bowl, the feeling after I fin­ished my final final exam of all time, grass on West Quad and racism ending in America. 
There have been the hilari­ous: Melissa Buddie's letter, the idea that Randall Terry takes himself seri­ously, the Keenan Hall rector, the new Recker's menu and police on horses at tailgates. 
There have been the depressing: the Syracuse game, the Pittsburgh game, the idea that Randall Terry takes him­self seriously and the UNC game. 
And the disheartening: the end of the Gay Film Festival, the color of The Shirt, the idea that Randall Terry takes himself seriously and the end of the Fisher Zoo. 
Through all of this, Notre Dame Students have lost sight of the impor­tant things in life, and have not real-

Divinity in day drinking 
ized that we have been witness to the finest form of divine intervention this side of Moses and the Red Sea. For those of us that have been paying care­ful attention; this year God showed us that he wants us to day drink. 
It's not that this is surprising. Don't college students have the God-given right to drink their hearts and minds (and hopefully not livers) out? Didn't the Lord show us how much of a rager he was when he turned water into wine for a wedding party? 
Many have said that Notre Dame football is God's team; maybe we are God's student body. Before you crucify me for making sacrilegious remarks or voting for Barack Obama, listen to the evidence: 
Evidence No. 1: Sept. 13, 2008 
On the morning of the Notre Dame­Michigan football game, it was pouring. Torrential downpours were every­where, and Notre Dame students were wondering if they were going to be able to tailgate. 
Fear not, oh fearless day drinkers. We had barely cracked open our first Keystone Lights when the rains sub­sided and the clouds parted (OK, not quite) for the most glorious five hours of day drinking since Carter Buckley left Newport Living. It doesn't matter if it poured during the game, or for the following five days, the rain-soaked game was made even more fun because of the tailgate. 
Evidence No. 2: March 17, 2009 
On March 12, it snowed. Five days later, God treated Notre Dame students to the warmest and most beautiful March day of all the March days (seri­ously, look it up, the high that day was five degrees warmer than any other that month). It's as if the man upstairs knew that the residents of Lafayette Apartments were going to throw the best party since incredibly lame people moved into Turtle Creek (actually, being omniscient, I guess he did know that). 
Regardless, St. Paddy's Day gave us the hint that divine forces were at work in South Bend. 
Evidence No. 3: April 18, 2009 
Last weekend, Notre Dame students were witness to another miraculous turn of events as a month's worth of 40 and 50 degree rainy days paved the way for the glorious three day stretch of sun that pinnacled with an immacu­late high of 72 on PigTostal Saturday. 
The Kirk, Jenkins and Swarbrick tri­umvirate might have (or might not 
page 13 
have) done everything in their power to cancel this great event, but it is clear that the student body had the big guy on our side as PigTostal not only hap­pened, but it happened on another beautiful day. 
What does all of this prove? Is it a coincidence that the only days of 2009 that have brought South Bend temper­atures above the 70 degree mark fea­tured the two best day drinking parties of the year? 
Or are there greater forces at work? 
Being a sometimes practicing Catholic, I have to believe in God, the Almighty; and as a Notre Dame stu­dent, I must also believe in Our Mother. I believe that things happen for a rea­son and that these miraculous meteor­ological mysteries can only have one explanation: God wants us to party. 
So in the name of God; party I will. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. Read more of his work at www. thingsnotredamestudentslike. com You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
In support of Fr. Jenkins 
Dear Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and family members, 
We are writing you all in regards to the growing criticisms over the selection to welcome President Barack Obama for this year's Commencement. We stand in support of Fr. John Jenkins and our University administration's decision to host President Obama. 
As Notre Dame students concerned with the many dimensions of social justice, we look to the words of our University's Mission Statement, which reads: 
"The University seeks to cultivate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achievements of human beings, but also a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice, and oppression that burden the lives of so many. The aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice." 
This ever-urgent call to work for the common good inspires us as it has inspired generations of Notre Dame students before us. 
As we continue to address the issues of social justice and the dig­nity of all people on our own campus, in our country and around the world, we are encouraged by the passion of debate that sur­round President Obama's visit to our University. We recognize that all issues of life are important matters that people of good con­science are called to take seriously. This point must not be down­played and we think it is important to have an honest and open conversation. 
As Notre Dame students, we strive to be a concerned community that recognizes the complexity of the many issues that face our nation and our world. We respect diverse viewpoints on issues and we also believe in concerned and genuine dialogue. We think, how­ever, that the debate is being neglected by those who would rather divide than work together for common ground and for the common good. We are concerned that in narrowing the focus to one aspect of life that has often proven polarizing and divisive many have lost the ability to recognize the other aspects of President Obama's work that continues to uphold the principles of justice and solidarity. 
Furthermore we welcome a president to our University that has in many ways helped redefine the history of our nation. We profoundly admire the work of those in the civil rights movement that made it possible for President Obama to come to our campus as our coun­try's first African-American president. Once a dream held by so many in our nation, we rightly celebrate at our University this momentous occasion for the legacy of social justice and civil rights. 
We are proud to welcome President Obama to speak at Commencement just as we have welcomed six sitting presidents before him. We thank our University's administration for this opportunity. As Notre Dame students concerned with the issues of social justice, we look forward to hosting our President and contin­uing our University's Mission to "create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice." 
In peace, 
Henry Vasquez Progressive Leadership Council April22 

Other recipients un-worthy 
I was alerted yesterday to the news that Notre Dame is to award honorary degrees to seven 'distinguished' people in addition to President Barack Obama. I was shocked to see the name Myles Brand in this group. This man is the current president of the NCAA and has been for about six years. I implore everyone -those for Barack and those against-to protest this man receiving an honorary degree. 
Why you ask? Well, let's be serious here. This man had the chance to change the scheme of college football as we know it and create what we all know is the right system for the post-sea­son-a well-thought out playoff system. When taking over the job, he said he would "listen and learn" and "work it out." He's done neither, done nothing for NCAA Football and we are stuck with bowls determining our National Championship team still. 
While I wish Mr. Brand the best with his current health problems, I implore you to protest this man being given an honorary degree. He is obviously at odds with one of the most impor­tant things here: football. 
Kevin Kimberly sophomore O'Neill Hall April22 
About the graduates 
I would like to thank Jeff Immelt ("A few thoughts on a special day," April 22) for taking the time to offer his thoughtful perspective on the controversy surrounding this year's graduation. As an engineering student who spent two summers interning with GE Aviation, I feel that GE is one of the finest companies in the world. 
As a senior who has grown weary of reading all of the emotionally-charged letters surround­ing President Obama's invitation, I found it refreshing to have someone like Mr. Immelt recog­nize that one speech won't change what Notre Dame stands for and that graduation should be about the graduates. 
Joe Jeray senior Sorin College April22 
Core values root of problem 
In his recent guest column in The Observer ("A few thoughts on a special day," April 22), GE Chairman Jeff Immelt proclaims that "we must adhere to core values -core values that ground each institution at all times." 
Exactly correct, Mr.Immelt, and therein lies the rub. By honoring the person who represents the complete antithesis of Notre Dame's core values (until now), Fr. Jenkins has done a grave disservice to the Catholic Church and to all have labored these 167 years to uphold the mission of the University. It's not surprising, however, that this sort of commentary would come from the company that owns NBC, the most biased and least objective of all TV networks. 
Peter Connelly alumnus Class of 1955 April22 


page 14 
Chill Out/ Amp Up1 Welcome to Exams 

by Jess Shaffer 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Friday, April 24, 2009 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Scene Writer 

This Friday night, Legends will be hosting the popular reggae/punk band Slightly Stoopid. 
Slightly Stoopid is based in San Diego. They describe their music as "a fusion of acoustic rock and blues with reggae, hip-hop and punk," and were originally inspired by well­known artists like the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Sublime. 
Co-frontmen Miles Doughty and Kyle McDonald are lifelong friends and have been playing together since they were in their teens. Like many artists, the pair had humble begin­nings at backyard parties and local clubs. Their chance of a lifetime came when they were in high school in the mid-90s and met the leader of Sublime, the late Brad Nowell, at a club in San Diego. 
It was Doughty's mother who persuaded Nowell to come back to the house to hear what the two boys had to offer. Surprisingly, Nowell went along with the offer. It was not long before Nowell signed the duo to his Skunk Records label and they released their first full­length album, "Slightly $toopid," in 1996. 
Currently the band is composed of Doughty, guitar, bass and vocals; McDonald, guitar, bass and vocals; Ryan Moran, drums; Oguer Ocon, congas, percussion, harp and vocals; DeLa, saxophone; and C-money, trumpet and key­board. 
Slightly Stoopid released one more album with Skunk Records in 1999 -"The Longest Barrel Ride." They continued performing gigs and released a few more albums, but it was not until 2002 that the band achieved a head­lining status, selling out shows from California to Colorado. In 2005 they released "Closer to the Sun," which includes some of their most popular songs, "Closer to the Sun," "This Joint" and "Open Road." Their most recent album, "Slightly Not Stoned Enough to Eat Breakfast," was released in August of 2008. The band calls this album "a collection of odds and ends." 
Most people fall into one of two categories regarding Stoopid -they either know them and love them or shrug and say, "Never heard of 'em." Although it is difficult to categorize, Slightly Stoopid's sound has been compared to that of Dispatch, Long Beach Dub All Stars, Pepper and 311. 
A few words to describe the band would be: California, go-with-the-flow, feel-good, laid-
The work ofSlightly Stoopid is as much about the music as it is about a lifestyle. They bring a little bit ofCalifornia surfer life every­where they tour. 
back, acoustic and eclectic. There are hints of classic rock, reggae, hip-hop and punk throughout but the music is not overwhelmed by one genre in particular. Their sound is "a little bit of rhythm and a little of soul," to quote from the lyrics of their song "Mind On Your Music." 
The work of Slightly Stoopid is as much about the music as it is about a lifestyle. They bring a little bit of the California surfer life everywhere they tour. 
Slightly Stoopid is not concerned with the whole world loving their music, but they are very concerned with being true to themselves and their roots -a philosophy that naturally comes out in their songs. Clearly, this philoso­
phy has been suc­
cessful and over the 
past 10 years has 
gained them a wide 
and diverse fan base 
of "Stoopidheads," as 
the band affection­
ately calls them. 
Slightly Stoopid 
consciously protects its unique identity and averts becoming too mainstream by not signing with a major record label. They want to maintain creative control over what they produce. That being said, Slightly Stoopid has supported big-name music acts like Sublime, Blink-182, LB-Dub, G. Love & Special Sauce and Pennywise. 
Self-proclaimed "road dogs," Slightly Stoopid is almost constantly on tour, and performs nearly 200 concerts a year. They greatly emphasize improvisation and interaction with the audience during their shows. They will kick off their "Blazed and Confused" summer tour on July 10 with Snoop Dogg and Stephen Marley. 
Slightly Stoopid will be making a stop in South Bend at Notre Dame's very own Legends this tonight at 10 p.m. So when "the clock says it's time to roll ya" be sure to head over to Legends and check out this unique band live at no cost. Although you may not be "partying all night," or "putting up your peace sign and your index down" like you did with last week­end's Gym Class Heroes, Slightly Stoopid is sure to be a great concert with plenty of audi­ence interaction. 
And if you have no intentions of going to this concert and think of this band as some lame Legends act, at least take one thing away from this article -it's "stoopid" not "stupid," stu­pid. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsen@nd.edu 
1 
2 3 4 
5 6 7 8 
9 1 0 11 12 1 3 14 1 5 16 
Someday -Slightly Stoopid 
Perfect Day -Hoku 
Boyz-MIA 

Birds and Bees-Ben Lee and Mandy Moore Spotlight -Mutemath 
Bottle it Up -Sara Bareilles 
I'm Like a Bird -Nelly Furtado 
My Name is Jonas-Weezer Boyz in the Hood-Dynamite Hack ILove College -Asher Roth 
Crazy Rap-Afroman Hardcore Days & Softcore Nights -Aqueduct Hey Girl-Dashboard Confessional 1,2,3,4-Plain White rs Time to Pretend-MGMT Sound of Settling-Death Cab for Cutie 
While spring is a time that ushers in a terrain ofsunshine, flowers, bounding furry friends 
(i.e. squirrels) and awesome campus activities like AnTostal~ it is also that time ofyear when the Library starts calling your name. 
This is my playlist to embody the wide variety ofemotions that compose the final days ofthe year: the depression, the frenzy, the stress and the blissfuljoy ofspring. 
Please enjoy this varied albeit random, compilation ofmusic. 

MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, April 24, 2009 
page 15 

By NICHOLAS ANDERSON new retirement fund became his first Cohen packs the stage with perform­and the feminine voices of Sharon Scene Writer tour in over 15 years. ers who perfectly compliment his style. Robinson, Charley Webb and Hattie At 7 4 years old and years out of prac­While Cohen is the center of attention, Webb illustrates the divide between
Social security is hemorrhaging 
tice, a live show was far from a sure each member of the group provides a heaven and earth and the interplay ismoney. Over the past couple of years, it thing. As early shows gathered raving deep and appropriate solo spread just as beautiful.
has become clear that solid financial reviews, plans to film a concert in throughout the concert. Javier Mas Throughout his life, Cohen struggledplanning is necessary for an easy retire­London formed. The resulting DVD opens and carries "Who by Fire" with an with bouts of depression. These darkment. Sob stories about retirees going proves that it is impossible for intricately wonderful melody from a 12-moments are reflected in his songs. Atback to work evoke sympathy from even Cohen to be in it for the string guitar and Dino Soldo's wood­their initial recordings, many of histhe coldest of hearts. Fortunately, one of money; he's there to share his winds create an atmosphere across songs are best described as haunting,these stories has turned into an enor­passion, his pride and his several songs that carry the listener heavy and enchanting. With age, Cohenmous gain. 
life. effortlessly. Every musician on stage has mellowed without having the sameTwelve years ago, Leonard Cohen was For a man who's primarily masters their instrument and bends it effect on his music. In fact, the yearsdoing well: Moderate mainstream fame, known for his songwriting, to Cohen's will. have only increased the authenticity ofa legion of religiously devoted fans and Cohen displays the abilities While the instrumenta­his songs. He's a man who's been to thethe most impressive catalogue of songs of an excellent performer. tion already depths his lyrics explore but has alsothis side of Bob Dylan. Cohen, best Dressed in a double-breast­takes been healed. He owes a debt to his songs 
known for writing the ubiquitous 
ed suit and fedora, Cohen the and this concert is his best attempt at"Hallelujah," decided it was about time 
looks like a member payment.
to take a break. For him, this meant 
of the Rat Pack, In such a large crowd of people, Cohen spending a decade living as a Buddhist about 50 achieves something rare: a moment ofMonk. Emerging in late 2007, Cohen years too silence. With the crowd still cheering
found that a former manager had 
I a t e . from the previous song, the opening
embezzled his lifetime of earnings. His From the notes of "Hallelujah" are heard. After an moment upturn in crowd noise in anticipation, Cohen a n the stadium goes quiet for most of the runs on extreme remaining song. The souls of those 
the stage, level of onstage are offered to the song. Cohen he com­a r t , hits every note with a power fueled by a mands it Cohen's mixture of pain and joy, which can with a vocals go clearly be seen on his face. presence beyond it. His Leonard Cohen truly is a rare artist that is voice has become giving a rare performance. A five­both pow-deeper and gritti­decade career is delivered over 26 
. erful and er with age, songs. "Live in London" serves as both aV understated. working per­great introduction and end piece to his 
Cohen takes fectly with the work. Cohen has surpassed the goal of the packed 20,000-seat arena style of his finding music that is enjoyable and and makes it feel like a 300-songs. The found music that matters. person club. The show runs c h a s m an impressive three hours but between his Contact Nicholas Anderson at moves at an incredible rate. rasp tone nandersS@nd.edu 
Leonard Cohen 

By ERIC PRISTER it's just a perfect opportunity to childhood dreams -the Scene Writer stuff hot dogs in your mouth AnTostal Spring carnival. Not without worrying about being only were they offering free The Notre Dame campus is judged. popcorn and snow cones, but wrapping up one of the tradi­Tuesday continued the child­South Quad was· filled with tional weeks of the year -hood fun with a game of freeze enough inflatables to make the AnTostal week. tag, straight from kindergarten rich kid from "Blank Check" And while it may not be the gym class, at which they jealous. The AnTostal carnival most exciting week for some, offered a huge favorite of most offered a moon bounce, an there is one thing that every­10 year-olds -freeze pops. inflatable figure-8 race, an one should love about the The eating contest got even inflatable boxing ring and week, and the fact that it better as people competed by other games, which could keep brings out the kid in each per­consuming large amounts of a college student, not to men­son on campus. Twinkies, and "Heavyweights" tion a pre-teen, occupied for 
The week started on Monday was shown on North Quad. hours. with T-shirt tie dying, some­Freeze tag with freeze pops, AnTostal offers something thing that definitely throws lots of Twinkies and rare for college students, or everyone back to his or her "Heavyweights" is like heaven anyone over the age of twelve childhood. When else could for a fourth grader. for that matter. It allows every­someone wear a shirt that Wednesday was a bit slow one to stop worrying about incorporated so many colors with the children's activities, school, stop worrying about and get away with it? Outside but a large group of people relationship problems, stop O'Shag, the AnTostal folk were Hula-Hooping on North Quad worrying about finding a job giving away snap bracelets, definitely made up for that. and to just be a kid again. That which I'm pretty sure can only The Hula Hoops, along with the is about the greatest gift that be purchased using tickets won Irish Quarterback contest and could be given to the over­at Chuck E. Cheese. Finally, the Knott Wiffle Ball tourna­worked, sleep deprived and 
-· 


that night was the quarter dog ment created a nearly perfect stressed Notre Dame communi­
eating contest. No worrying recess-like atmosphere. ty. 
about being proper or about With Thursday came the king Photo courtesy of httpJ!www.news. wisc.edu 
being overweight, as many of all childhood events -and Contact Eric Prister at Kids box against each other on a giant inflatable ring. Notre have to do once they get older, the fulfillment of everyone's eprister@nd.edu Dame students let loose on South Quad Thursday afternoon. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 24, 2009 
MLB 
Cardinals sweep Mets for seventh straight at home 
Bush takes no-hitter into the seventh inning as Brewers beat Phillies in a rematch of the 2008 NLDS 
two-run homer and David "Perfect player, in my opin­
Associated Press 
Wright, who switched places ion," manager Tony La Russa 
ST. LOUIS -Albert Pujols with Beltran in the lineup, had said. "We're lucky to have him, stroked line drives to all three two hits. believe me." fields. It was a bad omen for Mets starters allowed 16 Ankiel hit his first homer the New York Mets. earned in 14 2/3 innings in the later in the fifth, making it 7-2 
Pujols homered twice and series, a 9.82 ERA, and only and chasing Hernandez. Kyle Lohse lasted just long retired one batter past the fifth Lohse (3-0) is 11-2 in 21 enough for another win after inning. Hernandez (1-1) gave starts at home the last two sea­jamming his right knee as the up all three homers and sons although he barely quali­St. Louis Cardinals completed a allowed seven runs and nine fied for this win. He escaped a three-game sweep with a 12-8 hits in 4 1/3 innings. bases-loaded, one-out jam in victory over the Mets on Before the Mets start a six­the fifth on Gary Sheffield's Thursday. game homestand on Friday double-play ball and left with a 
"If my swing is good, I'm with the first of three against 4-2 lead. Five relievers finished going to hit the ball hard every­the Nationals, manager Jerry for the Cardinals. where," Pujols said. "My job is Manuel anticipated a front­Lohse was hurt when he to try to see a pitch I can hit office meeting about the pitch­reached back to try to corral a and drive it." ing woes. Manuel said he may grounder by Jose Reyes that 
Rick Ankiel homered and add another arm, going with 13 Pujols booted at first for an doubled twice and Skip pitchers this weekend, but error to start the fifth. Lohse Schumaker hit a pair of RBI would go through the rotation didn't believe it was anything doubles as the Cardinals pun­another time before consider­serious, although he underwent ished Livan Hernandez and ing any starting changes. an MRI exam. won their seventh in a row at "They're just going to have to "I was trying to stop and grab home. The Mets lost their pitch better," Manuel said. "If it the ball and the brakes weren't fourth straight overall. doesn't get any better, then you working very well," Lohse said. 
"I think we might have have to make some adjust­"They worked too good because caught them on a little bit of a ments. It's that simple." I stopped too quick." ban house, Dave Bush dominat­It was fun to have them all down slide, but that's the way it Pujols hit a solo homer to Beltran singled and double in ed at the Phillies' home. here, and good to get a win." goes," Ankiel said. "Good for right in the first inning, lined his first two at-bats and is 20-Bush held Philadelphia hit­Bush became the sixth pitch­us." an infield hit off Wright's glove for-37 (.541) against Lohse life­less for 7 1/3 innings before er to lose a no-hit bid in the 
St. Louis led 11-3 after six at third in the fourth and hit a time with four homers and 12 pinch-hitter Matt Stairs home­late innings this season. Bush innings en route to sweeping two-run shot to center in the RBis. red off the foul pole, and the and Boston's Tim Wakefield the Mets in a three-game series fifth. He has six homers this Lohse's first balk since July Milwaukee Brewers cruised to each had no-bids this year that at home for the first time since year and 25th career multi­29, 2006, and only the fourth of a 6-1 win Thursday. went 7 1/3 innings. Randy Aug. 6-8, 2004. homer games, including two his career, allowed a run in the One batter after third base­Johnson, Ted Lilly, A.J. Burnett 
Carlos Beltran had three hits, this season. first. man Bill Hall made a tremen­and Trevor Cahill had their including a three-run homer, Pujols also scored four times. dous play to preserve Bush's tries broken up in the seventh. after moving up two spots in He increased his NL-leading Brewers 6, Phlllles 1 try, Stairs batted for reliever This was the third time Bush the Mets' batting order to the RBI total to 21, leaving him two After spending a few days Chad Durbin and launched a took a no-hitter into the eighth third slot. Ryan Church hit a shy of 1,000 lifetime. relaxing at his parents' subur-high fly that hit the pole in inning. He did it in 2004 for 
right field. Toronto in his third major 
"I figured it was going to be league start, going 7 1/3 way fair at first, then I saw the innings against Oakland, and ball bending a little bit," Bush lost another bid last June 19 said. when Toronto's Lyle Overbay 
The big story on the mound hit a leadoff triple in the eighth. early in the game was Cole Bush gave up two hits in 7 Hamels. The World Series MVP 2/3 innings and drew a stand­was forced to leave after get­ing ovation when he left after ting hit in the left shoulder by Shane Victorino's single. The Prince Fielder's line drive. The right-hander walked three, team said Hamels had a bruise. struck out four and hit two bat­
"I have a temporary tattoo of ters, including Jimmy Rollins a baseball that will be going leading off the first. away," Hamels said. "I'll be Bush left after 113 pitches, a fine. I've been hit in much high amount for this early in worse spots, spots where you the season. really don't come back as fast. "You're trying to watch guys' I'll be able to go out there and pitch counts and the guy is pitch in five days." pitching a no-hitter," Brewers 
Long after he was gone, Bush manager Ken Macha said. "He (1-0) drew all the attention. He had good command of his off­graduated from high school in speed stuff and was able to Conestoga, Pa., and spent the throw his fastball by them at first few days of the Brewers' times. He did a great job of visit with his folks in nearby pitching." Devon. Would Macha have left him in 
Bush's parents, wife, sister with a no-hitter? and several friends were in "Yeah," Macha said. "He attendance. would have sprinted out there 
AP "It was fun," he said. "I for the ninth. As the day went always like coming back here on, he just kept making his and pitching in my hometown. pitches." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


FoR SALE 
Condo for Sale 
1564 Sq Ft 3 bdr 2 baths 2 car garage Basement Sun Porch 
Quiet neighborhood 6 mile south of University $130k 
574-291-2306 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COM CAST I 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 
2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www. kramerhouses.com 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. 
Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­3537. 
Rental House 1 mile from ND. on TRANS PO route. New kitchen, bath, windows & carpet. 2 bed­rooms, 2 living rooms & dining room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. 
Call Linda 574-288-0168. 
3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are ND alums. Pis call/text 619-804-3359. 
Off-Campus housing at Dublin Village, Irish Crossings. Now up to $100 off per room per month with an application by May 15. 
Call CES Property Management at 574-968-0112. 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 sll +base., L.A. wllp. 4 bdrms.study + finished 3rd fl. 
Full appliances+ W&D,3 porches. 413 W. Navarre. $1350 + util574­261-3184 or email escargot55@hotmail.com or www.xog.com/property/413WNavar re.html 
Professor s home near ND avail­able summer session. 574-233­8855 or 574-387-4205. 
3br Clover Ridge Apt. for Summer Sublet. $1000/mth. 404-200-3330 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of 
Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assauiV 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies). 
please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
Learn about available assistance at: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu 

-~~------~~­
OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 24, 2009 CoMPILED FROMTHE 0BSER\;'ER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

AP Don Welsh, left, CEO of Indianapolis Convention & Visitors Association, speaks at the Statehouse in Indianapolis on April 2. The convnittee was proposing a bill to help fund the agencyU1at operates major Indianapolis sports stadiums. 
City asks Colts, Pacers for money 
NCAA Baseball ESPN.com/USA Top 25 
team  points  record  
1  Georgia  718  31-8  
2  Arizona State  708  28-8  
3  North Carolina  703  31-10  
4  Texas  638  29-8  
5  Rice  633  27-10  
6  UC Irvine  622  26-10  
7  Georgia Tech  600  26-8·1  
8  LSU  580  28-12  
9  Arkansas  456  26-11  
10  Cal St. Fullerton  441  24-11  
11  Miami (Fla.)  403  26-13  
12  Baylor  402  25-12  
13  Oklahoma  373  29-11  
14  Virginia  372  30-8-1  
15  Mississippi  369  28-11  
16  Florida Slate  286  25-12  
17  Texas A&M  221  25-14  
18  Cal Poly  215  27-9  
19  Coastal Carolina  184  30-9  
20  Clemson  181  26-14  
20  Oregon State  181  23-9  
22  TCU  151  23-11  
23  Florida  98  26-14  
24  East Carolina  96  28-12  
25  Ohio State  72  29-8  

NCAA Men's Lacrosse Division I Top 20 
team points record 
1 Virginia 158 13-1 2 Cornell 145 9-2 3 Syracuse 143 1D-2 4 NOTRE DAME 139 12-0 5 Princeton 139 1D-2 6 Duke 124 1D-3 7 Johns Hopkins 110 6-4 8 North Carolina 102 1D-4 9 Hofstra 101 9-2 10 UMBC 84 9-3 11 Navy 76 9-4 12 Maryland 76 8-5 13 Brown 64 11-2 14 Loyola (Md.) 58 8·4 15 Bucknell 42 8-6 16 Massachusetts 30 7-4 17 Colgate 24 9-4 18 Georgetown 24 6-6 19 Harvard 23 6-5 20 Albany {N.Y) 14 7-4 
ITA Women's Tennis Division I Top15 
team 

1 JtHo~:=em 
2 Duke 
3 Georgia 
4 NOTRfDAME 
5 Baylor 
6 .Miami {Fia.t 7 ''Southern CaiHontla 8 California 9 Georgia Teclt 10 Tennessee 11 UCLA 
12 Clemson 
13 Stanford 14 Arkansas 
15 Florida 
around the dial 
NBA Playoffs 
Cleveland at Detroit (CLE leads 2-0) 7 p.m., ESPN 
Orlando at Philadelphia (series tied 1-1) 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts believe they've already done their part to help the city's cash-strapped sta­dium agency. 
And they're taking their argument outside the legislative halls and straight to the fans. 
On Thursday, the team e-mailed a letter to sea­son ticket holders defending its position that the $100 million contribution owner Jim Irsay made to building Lucas Oil Stadium should suffice. 
But the Indianapolis Capital Improvement 
IN BRIEF Obama hosts Florida 
Gators at White House 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama has welcomed the Florida Gators to the White House and congratulated them on a sec­ond national championship in football in three years. 
Obama on Thursday welcomed the Gators to the East Room and says their excellence on and off the football field is worthy of praise. Obama says being a cham­pion doesn't end when the clock runs out and noted that the team volunteers 400 hours each year. 
Obama says it's strong leader­ship that the team played hard together and works in their com­munities. 
In a moment of levity, Obama says he still supports a national playoff system instead of the cur­rent bowl system. But the presi­dent also says he's confident the Gators could've defeated any team out there. 
Board, which is expected to have a $43 million deficit because of operat­ing costs at the Colts' new stadium and Conseco Fieldhouse, home of the Indiana Pacers, needs more money and city and state leaders are asking Indianapolis' two major sports franchises to chip in. 
The letter went out one day before a panel of lawmakers was set to meet to try to reach a compromise on a bill to fund the board before the Legislature adjourns Wednesday. 
"The Colts made a 30­year commitment to the 
Colts restructure Wayne's
contract to save money 
INDIANAPOLIS -Pro Bowl receiver Reggie Wayne has agreed to a restructured contract, which will give the Colts more room under this year's salary cap. 
Wayne's agent, Joby Branion, confirmed the deal was completed but did not provide details about how much Indianapolis would save. 
Players frequently restructure contracts by accepting bonuses after agreeing to lower their annu­al salaries. The bonuses are then prorated over the remaining length of the deal, in Wayne's case three years, to lower the team's salary cap number in the first year. 
Wayne has been the Colts' pri­mary receiver the past two seasons and is expected to play a more prominent role this year after Marvin Harrison, the franchise's career receiving leader, was released in February. 
community," the letter reads. "Those written agreements, signed near­ly four years ago, com­mitted the team to this community for the next 30 years with no option to renegotiate, regardless of any financial down­turns that might arise." 
Colts officials contend some of the statements made during the continu­ing debate have been misleading or simply untrue, though the letter did not cite any specific remarks. 
A team spokesman said the Colts would not elab­orate on anything con­tained in the letter. 
"I'm glad to see them 
Purdue will stay strong
at quarterback position 
INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue coach Danny Hope says Purdue will be strong as usual at quarterback, despite losing Curtis Painter to eligi­bility and Justin Siller to a suspen­sion. 
The first-year coach said the spread offense is in good hands with fifth­year senior Joey Elliott and redshirt freshman Caleb TerBush. 
Both have earned respect. Elliott, the No. 1 quarterback, has been voted a captain by his teammates. TerBush, the backup, was given the offense's Newcomer Award, which is given to the player who shows the most progress during spring practice. 
"I think we're in better shape at the quarterback spot than a lot of people thought we would be," Hope said after Purdue's spring game. 
Whichever quarterback takes over will face high expectations. Painter passed for 11,763 yards and 6 7 touchdowns in four years as a starter. 
get out and start explain­ing their situation. When I met with Jim Irsay and (Colts president) Bill Polian, I told them they were getting blistered and I told them they needed to get their story out," said Sen. Luke Kenley, R-Noblesville, the Senate Appropriations Committee chairman. 
He said it was impor­tant for the Colts to be involved in the solution to the CIB's troubles. 
The Associated Press also left a message with an assistant to Rep. William Crawford, D­Indianapolis, the House Ways and Means Committee chairman. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 24, 2009 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Curry declares for NBA draft, plans to hire agent 
Associated Press 
DAVIDSON, N.C. -The big schools didn't want Stephen Curry, then were helpless in stopping his sweet-shooting stroke as he put tiny Davidson into the national spotlight. 
Now after three seasons and plenty of records, Curry is tak­ing his game to the NBA, pre­senting more intrigue in how the skinny, baby-faced guard with the great genes will fare at the next level. 
The nation's leading scorer announced at an on-campus news conference Thursday that he's skipping his senior season to enter the NBA draft. His father, former NBA sharpshoot­er Dell Curry, attended the announcement, along with his mother, Sonya, and Davidson coach Bob McKillop. 
Curry said he will hire an agent, ending any chance that he'll return to campus and per­haps break Pete Maravich's NCAA Division I career scoring record. 
"I think I'm mentally and physically ready to make that jump," said Curry, who believes he'll be selected somewhere between seventh and 20th over­all. "This is a dream of mine since I was a little kid." 
The lightly recruited Curry burst onto the national scene a year ago in helping Davidson of the unheralded Southern Conference get within a missed a 3-pointer of the Final Four. 
The 6-foot-3 Curry moved to point guard this season and averaged 28.6 points. He had 15 games of 30 or more points and three of 40 or more as teams couldn't find a way to stop him. 
Still, the decision tore at Curry's stomach much more than he expected. Two days after scoring 26 points in Davidson's loss to Saint Mary's in the NIT, Curry said he'd quickly make up his mind after speaking with his parents. 
Dell Curry told his son he'd likely be a lottery pick and probably wouldn't improve his draft status by waiting a year. 
But the younger Curry wavered because of his desire to get his college degree. Davidson does not have a sum­mer school program, and he unsuccessfully tried to get school officials to bend a policy that requires seniors to take the majority of their classes on campus. 
"During the whole process, some days I would say, 'I think I'm going to stay,' " Curry said. "Then some doubts would come in and I'd say, 'I'm going to leave.' Then more doubts would come in and I would keep going back and forth.'' 
Curry told school officials Wednesday afternoon he would announce his decision on Thursday, but didn't tell McKillop or his father what he'd do. 
The uncertainty captivated the region, with four Charlotte­area television stations broad­casting the news conference live. Curry said he finally made up his mind 90 minutes earlier while "eating an omelet" in the school cafeteria. 
"It took me that long to figure it out," Curry said. "I decided to sleep on it last night. I was at peace this morning and that's what I was looking for." 
Despite a weaker supporting cast than a season ago, Curry shot 45 percent from the field in 2008-09, including 39 percent from 3-point range. He was voted a first-team Associated Press All-American. 
He finished his college career with a school record 2,635 points, which ranks 25th in NCAA Division I history, and 414 3-pointers, fourth on the all-time list. 
If Curry had returned for his senior season, he would have had an outside shot at breaking Maravich's four decade-old record of 3,667 points. 
"He's become the face of col­lege basketball. He's become the face of Davidson basket­ball,'' McKillop said, tears in his eyes. "As special as he has been to us, he will be equally special in the NBA. I've been incredibly fortunate to have the opportuni­ty to coach him these three years.'' 
While Curry was perhaps the best shooter in college basket­ball, there are questions about how successful he'll be in the NBA. Curry will have to beef up his slight frame to withstand the rigors of an 82-game schedule. He's also still adjusting to the move to point guard, a position he'll likely have to play be a starter in the NBA. 
Curry struggled at times when facing taller defenders with long arms, a likely nightly occur­rence at the next level. But his lightning-quick release, surpris­ing quickness, high basketball IQ and late growth spurt will make lottery teams take notice. 
"lie's shown that he can play and he's ready," Dell Curry said. 
Curry has plenty of high-pro­file fans, too. Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James attended a Davidson NCAA tournament game last year and sat courtside in December when Curry scored 44 points in a win over North Carolina State. 
an MRI exam on an injured ankle in February, Curry said a doctor told him his growth plates showed he could sprout another two inches. 
His father had a similar late growth spurt at Virginia Tech. Dell Curry then spent 16 years in the NBA, mostly with the Charlotte Hornets. He works in the Charlotte Bobcats' front office. 
Stephen Curry said he'll finish classes this semester, then begin a rigorous workout pro­gram. He'll attend the NBA pre­draft event in Chicago next month, then work out for a handful of teams based on the results of the draft lottery. 
"If you look at my body com­pared to some point guards and [shooting] guards, I have a lot of work to do," Curry said. "But if you saw me my freshman year, people were saying, 'Who's this kid in sixth grade walking around in college?' " 
"He's like a [Richard] Hamilton in our league. He never stops moving," James said after that game. "He's the type of player that's hard to guard no matter how big you are. Guys in the NBA don't want to continue to chase guys like that." 
The major schools ignored Curry in high school because he was just 5-foot-9 in his junior year. He reached 6-feet as a freshman at Davidson and grew three more inches. After getting 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 



• Out-of-Print search service 
• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

Friday, April 24, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ROWING 
NBA 
Kings fire coach N a tt
Irish set to defend title streak 
By BRENDAN CORSONES 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will try for a sixth straight Big East title Saturday in New Jersey. 
Irish coach Martin Stone said he does not want to be surprised this year and point­ed to several teams such as Georgetown, No. 19 Louisville and Syracuse that could upset the Irish this weekend. 
"All of the Big East has been showing speed," he said. "I would not count anybody out." 
Stone demands excellence in practice, which may be why the Irish have been constantly improving all season. 
Louisville enters the tourna­ment with the No. 1 varsity eight seed, while Notre Dame is seeded second. 
Notre Dame last competed 

April 11 at Ohio State. There it ready for any new chal­won two races and improved lenges." 
after dis111al season 
its times in five of six. Coach Stone said he has Now it looks to a bigger confidence that this year's 
stage. 
"(The Big East championship] has been our "All of the Big East goal all year, 
has been showing 
and our success 
speed. I would not 
would be a 
manifestation of count anybody out.,, everything we've worked 
Martin Stone
hard for all 
Irish coach 

year," senior captain Lauren Buck said. 
team had the 

Associated Press 
stuff it takes to 

SACRAMENTO, Calif. -The
add another 

Sacramento Kings fired inter­
trophy to the 

im coach Kenny Natt and his
mantle. 

four assistants Thursday, a
"I think we 

week after the club finished
should win 

with the NBA's worst record.
this," he said, 

The Kings, once a model of
"but it will take 

stability during eight consecu­
a great per­

tive winning seasons and play­
formance from 

off appearances under coach
everyone." 

Rick Adelman, will be looking
The first pre­

for their fourth coach since
liminary races 

Adelman was fired in 2006 by
Though the Irish are no begin at 7:00 a.m. Saturday at 
owners Joe and Gavin Maloof. 
strangers to the Big East Cooper River Park in 
Natt, a longtime NBA assis­
championship, many new Pennsauken, N.J. The day's 
tant for Jerry Sloan and Mike
members will be experiencing first grand final will begin at 
Brown, was promoted after
it for the first time. 9:40a.m. 
Sacramento fired Reggie
This year's team has "lots of 
Theus on Dec. 15. Natt went
new faces, but an outstanding Contact Brendan Corsones at 
11-47 in charge of the Kings,
bcorsone@nd.edu who finished 17-65. Natt wasn't thought to be in 
attitude," Buck said. "We're 
the Kings' long-term plans, which was confirmed when the club formally announced it wouldn't pick up his contract option for next year. 
Sacramento also fired assis­tant coaches Rex Kalamian, Jason Hamm, Randy Brown and Bubba Burrage. The Kings didn't disclose the status of Shareef Abdur-Rahim, the for­mer Kings forward who became an assistant on a one­year contract this season. 
The Kings' next coach will inherit a stripped-down roster 
NOVV IS THE TIME FESTIVAL ON THE QUAD 
Because the~e is a time for everything -a time for music. a time for dancing, and n">ost of all. a time to gather and celebrate our commitment to overcome sexual violence 

after several salary-shedding moves by president of basket­ball operations Geoff Petrie during the season. Sacramento also has the best shot at the No. 1 pick in the upcoming draft in the lottery next month. 
Sacramento is close to rock­bottom after its unimpressive roster stumbled through the season in front of quiet crowds at half-empty Arco Arena, where the franchise had sold out 354 consecutive games before the 2007 season open­er. The Kings had the lowest average attendance in the league this season leading up to the final week, and the club doesn't appear to be making much progress on its effort to build a new arena. 
The Kings' coaching chaos has been a prime factor in their downfall. Eric Musselman, the former Golden State coach chosen by the Maloofs to replace Adelman, made it through just one con­tentious 33-49 season before being fired with two years left on his contract. 
The Kings waited two months between firing Musselman and hiring Theus, the former Sacramento guard with scant head coaching experience. He was fired after a 6-18 start to his sec­ond season. 


For rnoro than 20 y~•ars, Donald MGPherson has used the pOVVEn and appeal of spcnts to address ccwnplex social issues. He has created innovattve programs. supported cornnH;nity service provider-s and has facilitated f.H.iucational serninars tlnd lect.ures throughout North America. He is a national leader and adv<)(~ato for tt·1e provention of sexual and dol'nestic violence. 
A KEYNOTE BV DONALD MCPHERSON 


....----------~~-----------------------~ --~~-------­
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 24, 2009 
Undergraduate Male t\thlete gfthe year; 
1. Carl Andersen 
o Senior Carl Andersen, one of the top basketball players on campus, led Morrissey Manor to their second straightlnterhatl Basketball title and undefeated season with 17 points in the championship game. Carl's athleticism and ability to shoot it from anywhere make him a tough opponent and an impressive player to watch. In addition to playing basketball, broomhall and volleyball, Carl also plays lnterhall and CoRee football where he is one ofthe league leading wide receivers for both his !nterhall and CoRee football teams. 
2. Alex Klupchak 
o Alex Klupchak, asenior from O'Neill Hall, can be found most afternoons playing several hours of pick-up basketball at Rolfs. Alex has aconfidence and intensity that can be matched by few other players and his quickness and ability to both drive the lane and shoot it from deep make him aconstant threat A'i captain and leading scorer of his CoRee and lnterhall basketball teams, he led them both to appearances in the championship games, putting up 23 points in the lnterhall Final. When not on the hardwood, Alex plays wide receiver on O'Neill's lnterhall Football team and referees countless basketball and football games. 
3. Casey McGushin 
o Casey •pistol" McGushin is the captain and leading scorer for Sarin's lnterhall Basketball team where his driving ability and accuracy from deep behind the arc make him the Otter's number one threat In addition, Pistol plays quarterback on the Otters' lnterhall Football team and is the ct~ptain of the Little Giants flag football team who had an undefeated regular season, beating opponents by an avert~ge of 52 points. 
Undergraduate female A&hlcte of the year; 
1. Kathleen Stanley 

a. Kathleen Stanley helped McGlinn Hall capture the lnterhall Women's Basketball & Flag Football championships. McGlinn upset the top seeded Purple Weasels of PW in a 41-33 victory to 
win the lnterhall Women's Basketball title. In addition, Stanley plays in multiple soccer leagues, lnterhalll.acrosse, and was a member of DVD Late Night who made an appearance in the CoRee basketball final. 
Z. MaryForr 

a. Mary Forr was a major component of Pasquerilla West's Flag Football team as their top wide receiver. She also led the Purple Weasels to the number one seed in the Women's lnterhalt 
Basketball tournament where they fell to McGlinn in the championship game. In addition, Mary was a key contributor on several CoRee teams including Flag Football, Basketball, and Broomball. 
3. )ennl Gargula 

a. Jenni Gargula plays quarterback for Welsh Family's lnterhall Flag Football team that lost the championship game in the final minutes. Over the past three years, she has a perfect record 
in the regular season as the Whirlwind's quarterback. Jenni also brings an unmatched intensity to the point guard position on the Whirlwinds' lnterhall Basketball team. Graduate Male 4th1Gte of the )'ear; 
1. Matt Hamel 

a. After losing on penalty kicks in the GFS Soccer championship game, Matt Hamel helped the Insurance Waivers capture the CoRee Basketball title en route to an undefeated season. Hamel 
brings an unmatched intensity and determination to all sports as the leading scorer of the GFS basketball team, Flannel. and a strong defender on his CoRee Soccer team. In addition to playing basketball, soccer, broomball and volleyball, Hamel is one of the top officials for both soccer and basketball. 
Z. Braden Turner 

a. Braden Turner represents MSA in· a variety of sports including basketball, flag football, and volleyball. He was captain of the MSA flag football team and a member of the MSA soccer team that lost in the finals on penalty kicks. 
3. David Standa 

a. As captain ofhis self-titled team, Dave Standa led his team to the GFS baseball title with avictory over CEGEOS. Dave played GFS basketball on Team Flannel who made it to the semifinals before losing to the eventual champions. He is also a key contributor to his league leading Floor Hockey team. Threat Level Midnight, who has beaten their opponents by an 
average of 10 goals. Graduate female Athlete of the Year: 
1. Susan Pinnick 

a. Susan Pinnick represented the MSA program well. playing as many sports as she could. She was a member ofMSA soccer team that lost the championship game on penalty kicks and a key component ofher undefeated CoRee soccer team. In addition, Susan played basketball, flag football, and volleybalL 
2. Chrissy Vaughn 

a. Chrissy Vaughn was the captain of the Mighty Mendoza GFS soccer team that won their league. She always brought enthusiasm and leadership to her team as a key contributor to their successful season. 
3. Brittany Baron 

a. Brittany Baron is the leader of MSA athletics as the captain of both their soccer and basketball teams. She was a member ofthe CoRee championship basketball team, Insurance Waivers, 
and the GFS soccer runner-up as well as flag football and volleyball. Team gfthe fear; 
1. lnterhall Men's Basketball Champions: Morrissey Manor Basketball 
a. By averaging 65 points agame. Morrissey Manor completed an undefeated season and claimed the number one seed in the Men's lnterhall Basketball Championship. Led by senior Captain Carl Andersen's 17 points. they were able to defend their lnterhall basketball title with a 69-62 victory over O'Neill Hall. 
2. CoRee Flag Football Champions: Weapons of Mass Destruction 
a. Weapons of Mass Destruction struggled in the regular season, but a 2-2 record was just enough to get them into the playoffs where their season took off. They upset both the number one and number two seeds en route to the CoRee Flag Football Championship. 
3. CoRee Basketball Champions: Insurance Waivers 
a. Joe Marnell, Matt Hamel, &Joe DeMott Jed the Insurance Waivers to an undefeated season. Averaging 71 points agame to their opponents' 38, they captured the CoRee Basketball 
Championship over DVD Late Night with a 71-30 victory. Gam@ gf the VGar; 
1. Men's lnterhall Hockey Championship: Siegfried vs. Stanford 
a. The #4 seed Siegfried met the #1 seeded Stanford Griffins in the lnterhall Men's Hockey championship after both teams had to go into OTto win their semifinal games. The Siegfried Ramblers pulled off the 3-1 upset over the heavily favored Stanford Griffins to take home the championship trophy. 
2. Men's Jnterhall Football Championship: Siegfried vs. Keenan 
a. The top-seeded Siegfried Ramblers defeated the seventh-seeded Knights of Keenan Hall 14-13 to capture the Men's lnterhaH Football Championship trophy and complete an undefeated 
season. Despite the inspired play of the Knight's wide receiver, james Zenker, Siegfried was able to seal the victory when they stopped Keenan's attempt at a two-point conversion with just over two minutes to play. 
3. GFS Soccer Championship: Team MSA vs. Pick Up United 
a. Forty minutes wasn't enough to settle the GFS Soccer Championship as the game went into overtime tied 2-2. Top seeded Pick Up United pulled out the victory over third seeded Team 
MSA in Penalty Kicks 5·3. fans of the ¥Gar; 
1. Zahm Hockey 

a. Defending lnterhall Hockey Champion, Zahm House, could always be found with a large contingent of fans including fans in costumes ofall sorts. Even as the team started to struggle, their fan base stayed strong during the early morning hours at the JACC Ice Rink. 
2. Welsh Flag Football 
a. Welsh Fam was never short of fans, especially for Flag Football. Even Father Greg never missed agame. It's hard not to play well when you have the fan support that the Whirlwinds do, cheering them on to an undefeated regular season and an appearance in the lnterhall Championship game. 
3. Purple Rain 

a. GFS Flag Football team, Purple Rain. always had a ton of support from their fans, even bringing amascot. The fans for Purple Rain stayed strong even as the weather turned cold and rainy for the playoffs where the team lost in ahard fought semifinal game to Palin's Spawn. 
Voting is open until midnight, Sunday, April 26th Checkout http://web.recsports.nd.edu/recspy/index.php 
Friday, April 24, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

You've Come aLong Way! 
Announcing the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union Student Relocation Loan. 
.90%
Low Rate 
APR

of only Apply today! 
streak alive. Rather, the team does not even think of the

Shoe 
continued from page 28 
The "Showdown" is played immediately before the Ohio State spring football game, the Scarlet and Gray Game. The Horseshoe's maximum capacity is 102,000, and typi­cally the spring football game fetches nearly half of that. 
"We'll start with less than that, but by 
streak. 

"You can only win the game that you are playing," Corrigan said. "We are not discounting [the streak], but it is just not something we can focus on because it does not contribute to us winning the game this weekend." 
Indeed, this weekend the Irish face a formidable foe in the Buckeyes. Last year Ohio 
State scored 12 

the end be goals against
"We had over 7,ooo
close to that," Notre Dame's Irish coach for a couple different defense. K e v i n "They are
games, but 
Corrigan said. extremely good
nothing truly 
"It will be in transition quite the envi­comparable to this. '' opportunities," ronment. I'm Corrigan said. excited, and "That is some­
Kevin Corrigan
our guys are thing we know
Irish coach
excited." we have to make 
Such an atmosphere will be a brand new experience to the Irish. 
"We had over 7,000 for a couple different games, but nothing truly comparable to this," Corrigan said. "We did play at Invesco Field out at Denver, so we have played in a venue of this nature, but nothing of this magnitude." 
Even the NCAA tournament will not compare to Saturday's atmosphere as the Irish bid for a perfect regular season. 
Having opened the season with 12 wins, the Irish could feel pressure to keep the 
sure to watch." 

The last line of defense against such transition oppor­tunities will be senior goalie Scott Rodgers, recently nomi­nated for the national player of the year award, the Tewaarton Trophy. 
"That is a wonderful honor for Scott," Corrigan said. "I hope he gets it, and it will happen if we are successful." 
Rodgers and Notre Dame face Ohio State at 11 a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at • dfarmer1 @nd.edu 

Adrian 
continued from page 28 
weeks, so relying on prac­tices to make the differences they need is not effective enough to make the crucial changes. 
"We have had very little practice time as of late between our matches," Campbell said. "We have to learn from our last match and make the adjustments 
immediately on the court." 

Though there is little time for running team practices Coach Campbell knows what the team needs to change for the best chances for win­ning this Saturday. 
"We have to see where we can improve our play and play with confidence," Campbell said. "We simply have to focus on one point at a time." 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Store Your Stun 
0111r the St~nunerl 
(514) 203-0572 
6461 Sri<k Road, South Berul tocotro at o..v .. lond Rd.& us 2() 8yp;.ss. J minute> from <o>mpu> 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 24, 2009 
Orange 
continued from page 28 
Big East. 
Junior attack Gina Scioscia, the conference's third highest goal-scorer, was named to the second team. 
"The league's really competi­tive, with three teams in the top ten nationally and this is a pret­ty competitive week, so any recognition that the players receive is awesome," Coyne said. 
Overall, the Irish offense has averaged 15.81 points per game to put them at the top for the Big East and fifth in the nation. 
On the defensive end, this year's team has one the of the best all-around defenders Notre Dame has seen in Burke and Notre Dame's all-time win­ningest goalkeeper in senior Erin Goodman. Burke leads the team with 45 ground balls and 28 caused turnovers and is ftfth with 26 draw controls. Goodman has started in 52 con­secutive games for the Irish with a .673 winning percentage off her record of 3 5-l7. 
"Everyone here [at the tour­nament] wants to win, and is playing to win," Coyne said. "We're confident in our game plan." 
Hoping to put their leading talents to use tonight, the Irish start their tournament run for their first Big East title tonight against the Orange at 5:30 p.m. in Georgetown's Multi-Sport Facility. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION Music by LEONARD BERNSTEIN Book Adapted from Voltaire by HUGH WHEELER In a New Version by JOHN CAIRO Lyrics by RICHARD WILBUR Additional lyrics by STEPHEN SONDHEIM, JOHN LATOUCHE, LILLIAN HELLMAN~ 
DOROTHY PARKER and LEONARD BERNSTEIN 
Directed by MARK ABRAM-COPENHAVER Music directed by NANCY MENK Choreography by LAURIE LOWRY Costumes designed by MELISSA 8 BIAlKO lighting and set designed by MICHAElA DUFFY 
CANDIDE (NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION) is presented through special arrangement with Music Theatre International (MTI). All authorized performance materials are also supplied by MTI. 421 West 54th Street New York. NY 10019 Phone: 212-574-4684 Fax: 212-397-4684 www.MTIShows.com 


Use your Ford Emplotee DiscountM d 
on any new az a 4YR/50,000 Mile Maintenance Included on ALL new BMW's 
•Service On Most Makes and Models 
BASNEV IMPORTS-MAZDA/BMW 
•From oil changes to major repairs-www.basneyimports.com we can do it all! 
55203 State Road 933 North 
•Free shuttle service SOUTH BEND (2 miles north of Notre Dame) 
• Ask about our rewards program 574.272.8504 
•Certified Body Shop for all makes &models 
Auten Rd BASNEY IMPORTS * Darden Rd 
1'<"1 
Q\ 
"0
a::: 
VI 
-
Cleveland Rd 


ALL Notre Dame Faculty &Staff 
receive Employee Pr1cingl 
BASNEV HONDA 
Q 
www.basneyhonda.com 
3820 N. Grape Road MISHAWAKA (Corner of Grape &Edison) 
574.256.5550 
"0
ex: 
ICII. 
IV
.. ~ 
\!:) 

Edison Rd 
DayRd 
BASNEY HONDA
* 


Friday, April 24, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

FIIIIJ1\Y1\I,IIIL 2~1 21JIJ!J 
11;\FFLE TO \\'IN ;\ NOTilE 1)•\ME f!OIINIIOLE SET.II1\FFLE Tlf:ICETS 1\IIE $1
:1·1) 1,~1 

IF YOU \\'IN YOU I:ONTINUE TO 1•L1\ Y 
IFYOULOSEYOUCANPAYTOPLAYAGA~
SIJIJTII llll1\l) ALL l1110f!EEIJS WILL ~au To sos oF M•\msoN r:ENTEII TilE 11;\I•E I!IIISIS CENTEII OF ST.•JOSEI111 f!OUNTY ALOf!;\L SOUTil liENI) OIIGJ\NIZ1\TION Til•\TIS 11EIJICi\TEn
FIIEE Flllll) TO TilE ELIMIN;\TION OF SEXIJ1\L •\SS1\liLT ;\NI) I)OMESTII: VIOLENI!E. 
$5 T·SIIIIITS \'lSi\ 1\Nil ~IJ\STEtu:,\IUJ JU:(!EI,TEU FOIII,i\ Y~IENT 
VIOLENCE PREVENTION INITIATIVE 
NOW IS THE TIME FESTIVAL ON THE QUAD 
Because there is a time for everything-a time for music, 
a time for dancing, and most of all, a time to gather and 
celebrate our commitment to overcome sexual violence 311 l.aFortu.tu: • 574.631.9340 • grc.nd.edu • grc@>nd.edu 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 24, 2009 
are posting times that are among the best in the nation. In
Relays 

continued from page 28 
the 4x1,600 and finished sec­ond in the 4x800 relays." 
The Irish have won the 4x1,600 relay the last three years and in five of the last seven years. 
Both teams will be facing steep competition, 
including No. 11  "We're just looking to  steeplechase,  
Minnesota.  be really  and senior Mary  
Piane said he wants his team  competitive. ''  Saxer holds the nation's fourth­ 
to stay focused.  best mark in the  
"Our  focus  Joe Piane  pole vault.  
right now if for  Irish coach  Piane said he  

the Big East Championship," Piane said. "After that we can worry about the NCAAs." 
However, the Irish have a sig­nificant number of athletes already qualified for the NCAA Regionals on May 29. 
"I don't have the numbers in front of me, but I think there are around a dozen who have already qualified on the men's team," Piane said. "And on the women's team I think we have eight who have already quali­fied." 
Several members of the team the men's 10,000-meter race, senior Patrick Smyth has recorded the second best time in the country. Smyth also holds the fourth-best time in the country in the 5,000-meter race. 
On the women's team, junior 
Lindsey Ferguson posted the nation's 11th best time in the 3,000-meter 
Notre Dame employees serving the Notre Dame Campus 
Announcing our--·MIWF­Web Site and Web Order Form 
doesn't want his 
runners and 
throwers to be worried about their numbers in the individual meets right now. 
"Right now, we're not neces­sarily looking for great num­bers," Piane said. "But rather we're just looking to be really competitive." 
The Drake Relays begin Friday morning in Des Moines and the Hillsdale Relays, in Hillesdale, Mich., begin Friday as well. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 
Get asneak preview ofour new web order form below. Submit your first order on-line during the month ofAprU 2009 and receive:-ID'YiJ ·:-that order.
., 
DCLServicesWeb OrderForm
SMC SOFTBALL 
Playoff hopes gone, Belles to play spoiler 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
SportS Wrirer 
Saint Mary's will be playing in unfamiliar territory on Saturday when they travel to Trine University to close out the 2009 MIAA regular season. Under fourth-year head coach Erin Sullivan, the Belles have never played a season finale free of playoff implications. 
Saint Mary's (22-10, 6-6 MIAA) went on a tear to start the regular season, sweeping its first two opponents in back­to-hack double­headers and Palicki will bring a 2.98 ERA and an opponent's batting average of .259 into the first game, while Gillis seeks to add to her team-leading 12 wins, 29 strikeouts and 2.08 ERA. 
"We have a really good rival­ry going on with them for the last couple of years and I know they're really excited," Sullivan said. "The seniors want to end on a good note, and the fresh­men haven't seen Trine yet, so they want to see what's so great about them and come out strong." 
The Belles will need strong 
performances at 
the plate up and 
TWO easystepsorTHREE steps with an attachment! 
~~...,·~~r.:---•'""';..<,~-:---;, ·~ ~if·•-> 
STEP #3 
'-~~'~.,;it:. .... -~-~­
winning 6 of its  "We need to take  down the lineup  
first 8 games. But after a lackluster week  responsibility for our inconsistencies  to upset the MIAA's best team on paper. Junior  
that  saw  the  lately."  All-American  
Belles drop four  Ashley Peterson  
straight against perennial pow­ Erin Sullivan  looks to improve upon her .480  
erhouses Hope  Belles coach  batting average,  

and Adrian, they were virtu­ally eliminated from playoff contention. 
"We've never known when our last game was, so this is a bit of an odd year for us," Sullivan said. "But we've adjusted well and we know that we can be spoiler on Saturday. They always play well against Trine." 
Although the playoff-exiled Belles cannot knock top­ranked Trine (26-8, 10-2) out of postseason play, they can still drop the Thunder's No. 1 seed to as low as No. 3. Trine is coming off a doubleheader split against Adrian on Thursday, dropping the first game by a score of 2-0 and holding on to a 7-5 victory in the second. 
Freshman standouts Monica Palicki and Angela Gillis are slated to start on the bump for the Belles, as they look to com­plete their sensational colle­giate debuts on a high note. 


.............._........._... 
.........._____......_r 1) 
,.,_,..__ I
·--····' 

..,....,...a.:;.~--j 
.....,............,q.!flil} 
'Jlftlr-!lf.Jlll~,._fitfl!l'·;t....·Wk .-.;·~ 
-'Lbk..wM'IIIIliwft,.. .. l,lr.rfo"................ 
,~.__......,.. • ......,..............,.... '·"!!l: ­
, ••Ifill. ~~>~~~tlttf.jWt"M d~~.,.... 
--·--· -....... 
.,......,.~........,.'Mrt~ ·l~; -­,_,,...,,t;tt"N1111it--<.1/t.ll·~-.......-......................"--l~v.-...,.. if1 _...,. 
,b(i':~-.............. 
........~............... ..._ ... 
.810 slugging 
percentage and five home runs, each of which is good enough for second overall in the league. 
But Saint Mary's will have to contend with a stingy Thunder pitching staff that has slashed its opponent's batting average to .253 against right-banders and its ERA to 2.56. Nevertheless, Sullivan said she is confident in her squad's abil­ity to adjust from one at bat to the next. 
"We're not going to change anything specific," Sullivan said. "We know their pitchers. They move the ball a lot, throw a lot of dropped balls. We'll move up in the box, catch it early, and hit the ball before it breaks." 
Saint Mary's will take the field for the last time this year Saturday at 1 p.m. at Trine University Softball Field. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Friday, April 24, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 



~---, 
FEATURING HOURS
)( ~e:: 
Breakfast served alt day Sunday -Tuesday;? a,[fl. -2 p:m.
::::::-~ ~~+! 
House~made soups, salads, and sandwiches Wednesday -Saturday; (a.m. : 9p.m. •
EveryWednesday ... enjoy iHJ!a~s 
Gourmet pizzas 
• 

01 bottle of fine wine at 
Great wine selection! 
574.968.3030 • 
Dinner specials Wednesday -Saturday
SO% offt 
Reservationsaccepted for any meal. 
Ask about ourcatering! 
located in ToS<ana Park Shopping Centre • 303 Florence Ave., Granger, IN 46530 E·mail: infu(~uptownkitchen.net • Web: www.UptownKitchen.net 
"[Louisville] hits up and down the lineup," he said. "They have really good pitch­ing and plenty of depth. We're going to have to be at the top of our game to beat them." 
Game one of this weekend's Big East matchup is slated to begin today at 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

Big East 
continue'd from page 28 
to produce runs, stranding a total of 12 runners, eight in scoring position, through four innings of game two Wednesday. In the fifth inning, the Irish finally broke through after senior Jeremy Barnes' 
• 

single with the bases loaded drove in two runs. Before that, the Irish were two for their last 13 at-bats with the bases loaded. 
Pitching has not been an issue as of late. Senior Sam Elam went six innings in game one against the Wolverines, allowing just two earned runs and recording nine strikeouts, but couldn't get enough 
....................... 41 
................. 
Eat well. Be happy. 
e~oy. a. ~k-t.>a..hriJts-a.rra.y. oj tfn.SA1 or~Je. 1 hi~ fi..L4.it/y tfood.S. 
offense behind him to avoid the loss. In game two, junior Ryan Richter was able to stymie the Michigan offense again, allowing just three earned runs in five innings to get the win. 
The Irish are going to need to pull it all together if they are to have any chance of tak­ing down Louisville in hostile territory. 
The Cardinals are nearly unbeatable at home, having lost there just four times all season, each of which came by one run. They have also won eight of their last nine games against Big East opponents. 
Schrage knows that with such a difficult task at hand, his team is going to need to dig deep this weekend to come out with the victory. 
·=··· ....... . 

page 26 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 24, 2009 
' . . v· 
• 

The McKillen Band
Boston Harbor Ho\Vever Comma The Space Cowboys San1urai ]in1 Chicken Jackson 
. ~~ 
. . f 

Hear 'em all at 
\ •• 4 • 
... 

• legends.nd.edu • 
.. 
'
• .. • .
-
• 

. 
\ + 
...
, 

ND, SMC, HCC ID REQ'D 
ECEN DS 
Doors at 8:30 FNOTREDAME 

Friday, April 24, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
65 Parade honoree, familiarly 
66 Himmel und (traditional German potato dish) 
67 Lawless role 68 Sun. deliveries 
Down 
About to bloom 2 Catch up with old classmates 3 Half of a showy display? 4 Covered walkway 5 Symbol of power, to the 
pharaohs 6 Cash substitute 7 Kennel club 
rejects 6 Railroad track 
workers 9 Overwhelm 10 Reaches 11 Lee Van_ 
(spaghetti western actor) 12 Cigarette brand 
that sponsored "The Dick Van Dyke Show" 
14 Like some oil 
rigs 19 Egyptian lifeline 21 Eponym of a classic Minnesota­
brewed beer 25 Bump 26 time 
28 Grammy winner Winans 29 Shortage of punch 31 TV's Jack and kin 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puule by Alllf! Arbuleld  
32 Point of no return? 33 Robot in ~Forbidden Planet" 34 Without protection 36 _ the 1inish 37 Job tor Hercule  40 Splits 43 Misses the mark 46Amherst campus. briefly 47 Miracle-_ 49Coeurd'_ 51 Visibly stunned 52 Last place  55 Less conventional 56 Blackmore heroine 58 Stops on a sales rep's rte. 60 Knowledge  
Poirot 38 Spice holder  53 Seconds: Abbr. 54 Impostor  81 Mme., across the Pyrenees  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute: or, with a 
credit card. 1-BOQ-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comtcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/feaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPES 
CELJ<::UR:l1lf:S UORN ON 1'11lS OA\' · Mdina Kanak,rede>. 4~; V>~lerie llt..tindli, 49; Craig Shdkr. 49; Jnyre IJcWifl. W 
Hnppy Uirlhdny: \iJU willleam plenty from the experiences )'Oil encoumer tlu; year. A u~wc profewiom•lly wtll HlS<> euta•lp.~o)U'~phical rdocatimt <>r mort! travciiUilC in rn·tl.:r to (llllill yl)lorol~•gation~. Y<ntr dl'lnll tllld adat~"bllity \qiJ ''"''It 111 Pf"'l'<'rity Yollr Ultm hers ilfC J. 12, lS. 23, 1(). JO, 4$ 
ARIES 1Mardtll-Aprill9J' Refrain fromleflill!t your emotions take over. cathln)! you to do somdllin~ you may liw to regret Patient·e isn't one of your 'Iron~ kttttres bnt it wtll be • 11\H~I if you don't want to etl!! tip a1mb)<!ihnjl.. *•·• 
TAURUS (April 20-May 211): Youlw'" to push if you wnutthiugs to b;q>p<'lt Stul>boru nes• will on!)' hold you b~ck Makt• yom plans kn•)WII and strive for perk'ction $o that no one can criticize y<>nr cll<,ices or the c>utCOille Work at \\'hat fmislunf! what will benefit you.*** 
HEMtNl fMaJ'll-Juu~ li)J: fln..,,dcn you:r<>lltlook by tryul!lnewtbint~s aat<l t;tl<mg pan m aci!Vllte$ tlw wlll introduce you w mten:>llllf 1"'<'1'1<. Yuu "'" bve your hie wallmj!lor 
•Jthcrs to catch up to you. A t~wt>r will be gmllled •f you a'k * *** 
CANCER (June 2l·Joly 21.1: Don't pulnp with ~""''CtOIL Emotions "'ill t~ hard to con· tml, especially where w·ork rel.1ted pn>hlcm' wme 1111<> play If S<lll!e\1lte hands out fal"" inf<mnation, [!!; tlo. hN to C<'rn:.-ttho mistake csf>e<-•ally if it affe<"b yr•ll' r<.1Jlllallan. ** 
Lf:O truly l.J-Ang. 22): You'"e ~ot a lot 011 your m.ind t.hat bas to be dealt wttb promptly. Take a po>ltiw ouliook. It's your allitudc that Will help you win out in tile end. Your ability to get tlungsdonc wupled with a poslttw app«~;~ch will win out inlbe end.***** 
VlR<iO (Alii\· lHwpt. 22.1: Tal;., tl~<• ccl~t off tlun~s by sp<~akiug up abototlu:ow you feel and wlwt yvu wt1uld like to~~"' hapiJ"n. You calllll'lk~ a ditleren<'<'. Cb;mg<:. al home will be to your benefit and the work reqmred wiU be easily >K'compb<;hcd. ** * 
LmRA (Sept 2.\·0ct.:UJ. A relationshtp can be llrou~ht to new l~etght<. if you are open and hot~e~t with one mK•d~<.>r. You sb<:>ul<lplan to spend ,,uality time IO!!<ltber. Self· improvement prt>J<C'ls will rai~ your self·estrern aud ~'tlnfldeuce. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 1.\-Nu~. lll, Yl)lo lii•Y "'""' yuur bmm· ur t><-rwuallik 1f you •r~'lkc drastic d11mges 10 the way yo11 do !bing>. A rclatmuship will take a passion•le 111m if yrNI nurture it prr~>erly. Someone you are c:k>in~ business wtth v.~Jinot tell you e\'etytbing you 
need to know in order to !'"' the JOb done *** 
SA<HTfARIUS (Nov. 2.2-Ik'C.ll): Give and-take will be tJ.Cccsroary, espcctally Wilen domp tlnn~s W1th fricud~. liomily ,,. childfm. Giw tbou~tht tn what you"'""' to le<>rn or where rOll wm~t to llv~ in order to increase yvur UJ('·(JJllC'. Sotneune you h~I\'C' known a Jon~ timew11! surprise you.***** 
CAPRICORN Ilk'<'. 22-Jnn. 19): Give credi11o S<>mcone trym~ I<> im!Jf"" you. He or !.lle is a>kio~ for your approv~L m>lhiu~t m=. A chance to briu,2 ewryon<' you low closer wilt happen tf Y<llt vhuo" ~Mherinp at Y"lll' plac-e. ** 
AQCARlt 'S •Jan. 20-f<'eh. l!ll. k<'member your l'•st m1<l you will be nMi•·ated I<> move 
011. It's time to brm~ on now experiences that wiU mah' you fed j!Ood about tuture pros.· peels. Apply yourself and !rtt>t m yonr hdiefs. **** 
PlSC~:s if'~b. 19-Mureb 20): Don't phm '""tar ahead. Ym• will cud "l' havil•ll to 11~<•1«· ditli.:-tl1t.lasunimllc cbanl!"•· S<>moo1"' wirb mlllmrity '""Y k"d you <m • wild )(<>Osc chase. Mak.: yonr mows uccordillg In wha! ym1 know will work. lbis is no tmle lo play guess.m~ game!'. *** 
Birthday Baby: You speok from the heart atid swml behind your bdtefs. Yon an. a monp ;I<JV<l<l.'lll<! of jll•ticc :1o1d m<: •·reati,,e 111111~ way you "l'l"'"'"'h siiU<t!ion• yl)lo lace 
EugN•ia'.s· Web s•UT mgmialt~sf.<X-•m for '""tfidetttial cnmu//(1/1(111$, myspace.e<>mll!uget~iallm for Eugel!itr's bl<>g. a<lr.-,utdct<.wm for ftm 
CROSSWORD 
Across Factory 
seconds: Abbr. 5 Sights 9 Support 13 "Cool!" 15 Starting fare, 
often 16 Shield border 17"Scramt• 18 Practice area. of 
a sort 20 Get out of a 
bind? 22 Way to the top 23_Snider, 
frontman for rock's Twisted Sister 
24 Once-in-a­lifetime traveler 
27 Figure usu. in hundreds or thousands of feet 
28 "Black rat" as opposed to "Aaltus rattus" 
30 Org. established by Nixon 33 Sorry sort 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
35 Loudness unit 36 Biblical patriarch whose name means "he will 
laughn 37 "What a ___!" 39 Catch 41 Radical Hoffman 42 Low-grade?: 
Abbr. 44 Hipsters 45 Abridged. for 
short: Abbr. 46 Northeast. on a 
map 48 Ditto 50 Delhi wrap 51 Here, in Toledo 54 Silk fabric for 
scarves 57 Onetime 

Missouri natlws 59 Directories 62 Bygone women's 
magazine 63 Sharp 64 Humdinger 


MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
JUMBLE 
~l! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
TAROA ± 
©2009 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
F~1~-t
I I lJ tPATUCE t
IJ I J 
NEW.JlM3LE NMENOOwww.jtm'1ble.comtds
tFITHES t
J I I J I 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
-
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHAT IT TAKt:S TO Gt:T MARI<It:D. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: THE 
" ( I I I ]" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: GLOVE CURVE UNEASY HAWKER Answer: The conducfor negotiated a lucrative contract because he -KNEW THE "SCORE" 


www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, April 24, 2009 
page 28 
MEN's LAcRossE 
Filling the .~Shoe' 
Laxers to face Bucks at 'Horseshoe' with 30,000 in attendance 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 
A typical college lacrosse game played in front of a large crowd would have one to two thousand fans. Saturday at Ohio State, Notre Dame will play in front of upwards of 30,000 fans at Ohio Stadium. 
No. 3 Notre Dame (12-0, 4-0 GWLL) faces Ohio State ( 7-6, 3-1) at Saturday at "The Horseshoe," the Buckeyes' football stadium, in the "Showdown in the Shoe." Ohio State hosted Denver in the inaugural "Showdown," in 2008, and close to 30,000 fans were in attendance. 
see SHOE/page 21 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

ND TRACK & FIELD 
TeatnSturn attention to relay races 
By ALEX WEST Sports Writer 

With several individuals already qualified on both the men's and women's teams for the NCAA Regionals in late May, the Irish focus this week­end is on the Drake and Hillsdale Relays. 
Although the men's and women's 4x800-meter and 4x1 ,600 relay teams cannot qualify for the NCAAs this weekend, Irish coach Joe Piane said he is confident that the relay teams will repeat past recent success in the events. 
''I'd like to think both teams will be competitive," Piane said. "Last year the men's team won 
see RELAYS/page 24 
Talented group hopes to nab school's first Big East title 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
They may have some of the most successful players Notre Dame has ever seen, but the No. 11 Irish have yet to make it past the first round of the Big East tournament, a record they will try to amend tonight as they take on No. 8 Syracuse. 
"Syracuse is a very potent team, but defensively we know 
SMC TENNIS 
their tendencies," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We're confi­dent we can be in the game from the beginning, if we play relaxed and get through the first few minutes." 
This weekend marks Notre Dame's third consecutive appearance in the Big East tour­nament since its inception in 2007, when the team lost 12-10 to the Hoyas after trailing 11-6 with 14 minutes to play. Last season's tournament, held in 
Belles hope to add to MIAA resume 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
As the season comes to a close, Saint Mary's is searching for a win against Adrian College on Saturday to keep its hopes high before the quickly approaching MIAA Conference tournament. 
"We never overlook an opponent, but [Adrian College] has had a tough season in the conference," Belles coach Dale Campbell said. 
In terms of competition, the Bulldogs (2 -11, 0-4 MIAA) are not one of the strongest teams on the Belles' schedule. They have been shut out by three of the four MIAA Conference teams they have faced so far this season. 
The Belles (7-9, 2-4) hope to improve their record with one more win after this match. 
"I expect all of them to do well," Campbell said. "Now is a time to get prepared for the conference tournament." 
The Belles are coming off of a harsh loss from Hope College, where junior team captain Camille Gebert was the only member of the team able to pull out a win, but sophomores Jessica Kosinski and Franca Peluso came close. 
"We had a tough match against Hope," Campbell said. "The biggest challenge is to not let down after a tough loss." 
The Belles' schedule has been intensely packed with matches in the past few 
see ADRIAN/page 21 

Notre Dame Stadium, saw histo­ry repeat itself as the Hoyas defeated the Irish in sudden death 15-14 after three over­times. 
Not only is Notre Dame look­ing to improve its tournament record, but also its record against Syracuse. The Irish (12­4, 5-2 Big East) last faced the Orange (12-3, 6-1) April11 at the Carrier Dome, where they lost 14-13. Overall, they are 3-9 versus the Orange, losing their 
BASEBALL 

last three contests against them. 
If they advance to the second round, Notre Dame will take on the winner of the second semi­final contest between Georgetown and Louisville on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
What the Irish do have going into this tournament are some of the top players in the confer­ence and in Notre Dame history for both offense and defense, including several who were rec­ognized at Thursday's Big East awards banquet, which pre­cedes the tournament. 
Senior attack Jillian Byers is the all-time Big East goal leader and a Tewaarton Trophy nomi­nee. She was named All-Big East co-attack of the year, along with Syracuse's Katie Roan. 
Byers, senior defender Shannon Burke and sophomore midfielder Shaylyn Blaney were all named to the first-team All-
see ORANGE/page 22 
Irish begin tough stretch at Cards 
By ALEX BARKER Assistant Sports Editor 

Notre Dame begins the sec­ond half of its Big East sched­ule today as it travels to Louisville to face the Cardinals in a three-game set. 
The Irish (23-15, 8-7 Big East) are entering a signifi­cant stretch of the schedule where all four conference opponents they will face are currently ahead of them in the standings. After the Cardinals (28-11, 11-4), they host two home series against Connecticut and South Florida before ending the sea­son at St. John's. 
Irish coach Dave Schrage said he feels that each of the upcoming conference series will pose tough tests for his team. 
"Our last four [series! are all important," he said. "We have 12 tough games ahead of us as every team we play is ahead of us in the standings. We are really going to have to play well to do well." ued strong performances off 

In order to take down the the mound. Cardinals, Notre Dame will In a series split against need to get much more con­Michigan, the Irish struggled sistent hitting out of its lineup in combination with contin-see BIG EAST/page 25 



