the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Pro-life task force hosts panel discussion 
Special task force continues work, meets with various campus groups to develop recommendations 
12:30 p.m. today in the work earlier this semester, sor of theology and director dent body, ” Brinig said. 
By AARON STEINER 

McCartan Courtroom of the they’ve spent time talking to of the Institute for Church “We’ve talked to a number of 
News Writer 

Law School. The event may various groups on campus — Life. the different department lead to the creation of a she esti -Brinig said the Task Force’s heads and deans and people Notre Dame is jumping into white paper on the topic, mated 100 
various groups are address-like that.” the public policy debate on organizers said. people in 
ing various areas related to Brinig said the Alumni conscience clauses today, in The event is just one of total. 
life issues, like pregnancy Association and various part due to the work of a several things the new task “ W h a t 
support and adoption, or, University administrators special pro -life task force force — which was formed we’ve done 
like today’s event addresses, have been involved, as well launched by University partly in response to the con-is worked 
conscience clauses. as groups outside the President Fr. John Jenkins troversy surrounding in small 
In talking with groups on University — including the earlier this semester. President Barack Obama’s groups and 
campus, Brinig said they’ve locally headquartered The Task Force on Commencement visit last v a r i o u s 
met with the gamut of stu-Women’s Care Center, and Supporting the Choice for spring — is working on. p e o p l e dents, faculty and adminis-other organizations in Life and the Notre Dame Law Task Force co -chair have had trators. Washington, D.C., Seattle School are co-hosting a panel Margaret Brinig, professor of meetings with “We’ve met with a whole and St. Paul. discussion on conscience law and associate dean at groups,” Brinig said. bunch of the various Right to Discussions have produced clauses from the perspective the Law School, said that She chairs the Task Force Life [campus groups] but also of a Catholic university at since the group started its with John Cavadini, profes-with the president of the stu-see PRO-LIFE/page 8 




Project Warmth holds winter clothing drive 
And with the weather is growing colder, the CSC partnered with St. Michael’s Laundry and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore to launch Project Warmth, a campus-wide initiative that encourages students to donate winter outerwear to South Bend residents in need, hopes to raise both awareness and participation this season. 
“If people can give some­thing they ’re wearing or something that they’re not wearing, it would be great,” Hebbeler said. 
St. Michael’s Laundry picks up all of the donations, cleans them and brings them back to the CSC. 
The Hammes Bookstore 
see WARMTH/page 8 



Housing an issue for abroad returnees 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Like many students studying abroad this semester, junior Elizabeth Benson recently filled out a housing form to move back on campus in the spring, but unfortunately, no space is left in the residence hall she has lived in for the past two years. 
Benson, who is currently studying in London, knew last spring that there would be no room in Breen Phillips Hall for the spring semester. 
“Coming back to campus is really easy for people who live in dorms with enough space for them,” she said. “For everyone else, it’s really frus­trating to feel like you don’t have a home, especially since you make such good friends within a dorm.” 
But the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) will most likely find spots on cam­pus for all students returning from studying abroad — just not necessarily in the dorm of their choice, according to Grant Woodman, associate director of ORLH. 
However, the Office will try to place students in the hall of their preference when possi­ble, he said. 
see HOUSING/page 6 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 


CCAC discusses off-campus safety 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
Off-campus safety domi­nated the discussion of the Community Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) Wednesday afternoon at the Downtown Office of the University. 
The group is composed of representatives from Notre Dame, Holy Cross College and Saint Mary’s College as well as officials from South Bend city offices and agen­cies. 
The Coalition discussed the progress made so far on a number of proposals to increase overall safety in the South Bend community, especially the neighbor ­hoods and apartment com­plexes immediately sur ­rounding Notre Dame. 
The neighborhood watch proposed at various safety meetings in recent months has not yet begun, associate vice president for Public Affairs Tim Sexton said. 
“We want to make sure that as students come and go this program continues and is sustainable,” Sexton said. 
“I think the unique part is that there’s an involvement of groups that haven’t been involved before from both 
see CCAC/page 8 


By ADRIANA PRATT 
News Writer 
If the temperature in South Bend doesn’t drop below 32 degrees, many homeless have nowhere to sleep and are left cold on the streets, Mike Hebbeler, director of student leadership and sen­ior transitions at the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) said. 
“What happens when it’s 33 degrees? When people can’t get shelter and there’s no weather amnesty, they freeze,” Hebbeler said. “It kind of struck me when I was hanging out downtown and there were homeless people who kept calling the weather line to check the weather and wait for it to drop one more degree. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Sophomore strings rosaries page 3  Weekend Calendar page 12  Women’s Basketball tops Eagles page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, December 3, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Coaching candidates 
Brian Kelly, Bob Stoops, Gary Patterson, Urban Meyer. We’ve all heard the names being thrown around on ESPN as the front-runners for our currently vacant (what’s that, you didn’t hear?) football head coaching 
Allan Joseph
position. While I’m sure any of 
Sports
these men would 
Wire 
do a decent job 
Editor

running the pro­gram, I’m going to suggest some other candidates that haven’t been getting as much buzz. Pay attention, Mr. Swarbrick. 
Tiger Woods: Can you imagine the quality of fist pumps and awkward high-fives after every touchdown? Plus, he could live on campus and get ResLifed after crashing his car on his way to Reckers at parietals. 
Officer Tim McCarthy: If he’s clever enough to come up with 8 new puns a year for 50 years, he’s clever enough to out scheme opposing coaches. Plus, have you ever heard 80,000 people more silent than during his announce­ments? The man commands respect. 
Joe Girardi: The Yankees, baseball’s greatest power, had fallen on hard times before Girardi arrived on the scene. Two years into his job, he’s brought them back to the top. Why can’t he do the same for this traditional power? Plus, Notre Dame might be the only place with enough money to hire him away from the Steinbrenners. 
Mark May: It’s simple. We hire Mark May, he can’t be an analyst anymore, drastically improving the quality of ESPN football coverage. Plus, his hate for Notre Dame could be a valuable motivational tactic for the players. 
Megan Fox: She might be the only thing that could convince Jimmy Clausen to stay for another year. 
Manti Te’o: OK, maybe not as head coach. But he basically is the defense, anyway. So why not a player-coordina­tor? 
Morgan Freeman: He’s doing his best Nelson Mandela impression in Invictus, so he’ll do his best Knute Rockne impression here. Plus, he was God (and has the voice of God). We’re Notre Dame, and last I checked, God still loves us. Let’s put him on the sidelines. 
Brady Quinn: I know we’re strug­gling, but he’ll be a part of far more wins here than he will as a member of the Browns. Plus, our TV contract will become immensely more valuable as the prized 18-to-30 year-old female demographic will flock to NBC on Saturday afternoons. 
Romeo Crennel: We tried Belichick’s offense, so why not try his defense? His record as the Browns’ head coach is an anomaly, I’m sure. 
Notre Dame Stadium: Judging from the comments shouted out during the games, we quite obviously know better than the coaches. We could coach by democracy — it’d be revolutionary and would give us an excuse to storm the field after every win. The head coaches have to shake hands, after all. 
There you have it, Mr. Swarbrick. Ten high-quality coaching suggestions that’ll make a splash and keep Notre Dame relevant, as you want. The ball’s in your court. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS YOUR FAVORITE C RISTMAS SONG? 






“‘Oh Come, Oh  “Jingle Bells.”  “12 Days of  “Here comes  “12 Days of  
Come,  Christmas,  Santa Claus.”  Christmas.”  
Emmanuel.’ I  because every  
like the way it  year we act it  
is sung.”  out as a  
family.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

School employee loses job due to alien search 
MESA, Ariz. — A former Arizona school district employ­ee is accused of using school computers in an experiment to find space aliens, costing the worker his job and the district more than $1 million. 
Schools officials say Brad Niesluchowski, who was Higley Unified School District’s infor­mation technology director, downloaded free software on district computers in 2000. 
The program, known as SETI(at)home, uses Internet-connected computers world­wide to analyze radio telescope data in an experiment to find extraterrestrial intelligence. 
But Superintendent Denise Birdwell told the East Valley Tribune that the program also bogged down the district’s sys­tem and interfered with tech­nology use in classrooms. 
Birdwell said it will take more than $1 million to fix the problem, including removal of the SETI software. She says police are conducting a broad­er investigation. 
Groom’s ex girlfriend crashes Peruvian wedding 
LIMA, Peru — Edwin Ortiz was just about to utter “I do,” but the mother of his two chil­dren and her relatives had a different message: “Oh, no you don’t.” One moment, the 27­year-old Peruvian was sitting happily in a large wedding hall with 17 other couples, declar­ing his love for his wife-to-be to TV cameramen in the south­ern town of Miraflores. 
The next, two women rela­tives of his ex-partner burst into the room, rushed up to Ortiz and began pounding on his head and back while screaming at him. The burly women eventually shoved him and his mother outside into a parking lot, where the ex-part­ner joined in, Miraflores spokesman Julio Hincho said Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday saturday 
IN BRIEF 
The American Red Cross will hold a blood drive today at Legends from 10:30 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. To schedule an appointment, call 574-299­1388 or visit givelife.org and use the code “irish.” 
Michael Desmond, Distinguished Advisor for Conversion Technology of BP America, Inc., will deliver a lecture today at 4 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The lec­ture, “Future Automobile Fuels: Fill up or Plug In?” is part of the Notre Dame Energy Center’s Distinguished Lecture Series. It is free and open to students, faculty and staff. 
Pasquerilla East Hall will hold its signature event, “Silent Night, Silent Auction,” tonight from 6:30 p.m. to 9 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Gift baskets and items will be auctioned to raise money for the charity Building Tomorrow. 
The film “Bright Star” will play at 6:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. For ticket information, call 574-631-2800, visit the box office or visit the perform­ing arts Web site. 
Dec. 10, the Saint Mary’s Department of English will celebrate the career of retired professor Jeanne Rodes with a poetry reading at 7:30 p.m. on the second floor mezza­nine of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
sunday monday 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu. 

HIGH 

CORRECTIONS 

37 HIGH 30 HIGH 32 HIGH 34 HIGH 38 HIGH 37 
A Dec. 1 Observer article titled “Notre Dame  LOW  35  LOW  26  LOW  23  LOW  25  LOW  27  LOW  28  
returns north” incorrectly stated that the women's  
basketball team defeated Oregon on Nov. 28. They  
in fact defeated No. 20 Oklahoma. The Observer  Atlanta 51 / 35 Boston 61 / 38 Chicago 37 / 27 Denver 21 / 13 Houston 56 / 41 Los Angeles 66 / 66 Minneapolis 27 / 20  
regrets this error.  New York 60 / 39 Philadelphia 61 / 38 Phoenix 68 / 41 Seattle 47 / 33 St. Louis 42 / 26 Tampa 73 / 59 Washington 59 / 39  

Thursday, December 3, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC sophomore strings rosaries for troops 
Remi White has made some 500 sets of beads so far from parachute cords after getting involved in high school 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s sophomore Remi White has made about 500 rosaries to date, she said, as a part of the Ranger Rosary Ministry, which works with mili­tary chaplains to provide rosaries to troops deployed to combat zones and those at state­side bases and military hospitals. 
As a junior in high school, she discovered the program with a friend on the Ranger Rosary Web site and it immediately grabbed her attention. 
“We were both really interest­ed in participating,” she said. “We thought it was such a unique way to give back to the troops overseas that a lot of peo­ple wouldn’t realize.” 
The project rose to a new level as more students became involved, White said. It became a school project with the entire school making rosaries. 
White does not have a direct affiliation with the military, but said that she began the rosary project because she wanted to bring happiness to the troops. 
“I believe [the rosaries] pro­vide a sense of hope and strength to the troops,” White said. 
White continues to make the rosaries from parachute cords and dark beads with her high school friends during breaks from school. 
Once the rosaries are finished, they are sent to the Ranger Rosary home base in Annapolis, Md. St. John Neumann church is responsible for fulfilling the requests of the military chap­lains by supplying the rosaries. 
The church also checks to make sure that the rosaries have been made correctly. 
White and her friends add a personal touch to the rosaries that they make. 
“We send a note along with the rosaries saying who we are and how honored we feel to partici­pate in this project,” White said. “In a way, it is a note of thanks, too. We thank them for all that they do, and tell them that they are in our thoughts and prayers everyday.” 
Individuals who are interested in making rosaries for service men and women can order a sample rosary making kit from St. John Neumann church, which includes enough materials to create five rosaries and a fin­ished rosary as an example of the finished product. 
The Rosary project sends an important message to the troops, White said. 
“It is a reminder to know that God is always with them and that his love and support is always at their sides,” White said. “It also reminds the troops that there are people back home thinking of them and praying for their safety.” 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@nd.edu 

Saint Mary’s sophomore Remi White creates rosaries, used for prayer, to send to troops deployed in combat zones. 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 3, 2009 
Profs examine role of university in development 
Visiting lecturer from Uganda Martyrs University discusses state of higher education in African countries 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Higher education is a key factor in global human devel­
opment, two scholars said Wednesday. 
Fr. Peter Kanyandago of Uganda Martyrs University and English Schooling and Society Professor Tamo Chattopadhay discussed the role of universities in devel­opment in a lecture at the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
Kanyandago focused on development in his native Uganda, but said the country represented many nations. 
“I take Uganda as my back­ground, but what I am going to say can be applied to other areas,” he said. 
Of Uganda’s 33 million peo­ple, 42 percent are Catholic. He said there are 29 universi­ties in Uganda, of which one, Uganda Martyrs University, is Catholic-based and 28 of the 29 universities have been founded since 1988. 
But only three percent of the population of university age actually attends. 
“About 57 percent of the students who qualified for university cannot attend due to the lack of space, ” Kanyandago said. 
He said higher education is key in this process of produc­ing teachers, research and service to the community. 
However, this development must come in an ethical man­ner according to Kanyandago. 
“I believe that development cannot be genuine if it is not ethical, and ethics that do not promote human development are not of much use,” he said. 
Kanyandago described a key term, “endogeneity,” which he defined as people using cultural and material resources to ensure rele ­vance, self-reliance, owner­ship and participation. 
He said that endogeneity is key in ethical development. 
“Development that is imposed from the outside, however good it is, cannot be genuine,” he said. 
Ethical development, he said, is more than just meet­ing basic needs. People must fulfill other needs in their life, such as the material, spiritual and emotional. 
In addition to the lack of capacity, Kanyandago said there aren’t enough educa­tional facilities, there are issues with irrelevant curric­ula and some universities question the quality of the higher education in Uganda. 
Kanyandago said Ugandan universities must begin to focus on food security, hunger and famine, among other things. 
“Only two universities have departments of agriculture and animal husbandry,” he said. 
Kanyandago called for much more action to improve the quality of Ugandan educa­tion but remained optimistic about the situation. 
“Despite what has been said, university education has contributed a lot to the devel­opment of Uganda,” he said. 
Chattopadhay focused on what he called “the transna­tional perspective”. 
He said education is becom­ing the hot topic in terms of development in nations. 
“There is a big buzz on knowledge for development,” he said. 

Chattopadhay said universi­ties are therefore playing an increasingly important role in development as they are cen­ters of knowledge. The irony, he said, is that the most chal­lenged nations developmen­tally have the least university capacity. 
This issue has been com­pounded by the focus on ele­mentary education in devel­oping nations. 
“Much of the problem is that emphasis is placed on primary education at the cost 
of tertiary education,” he said. 
Chattopadhay noted that despite these global issues, there is hope in the future. 
“Think of the changes that are possible because we live in such an interconnected era,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

ND astrophysicist to give lecture 
tools of modern astrophysics 
Special to The Observer 
to the search for evidence of 

University of Notre Dame this event. His program will astrophysicist Grant examine whether the Mathews will give two pre-“Christmas Star ” was a sentations this month of his nova, a super-nova or a popular program titled planet alignment and dis ­“What and When was the cuss the possible identity of Christmas Star? ” in the the “wise men from the Digital Visualization Theatre East.” of Notre Dame’s Jordan Hall The public programs will of Science. be followed by a special 
The programs, which are video presentation of “A free and open to the public, Season of Lights.” will take place at 4 p.m. on Dec. 12 and 3 p.m. on Dec. 13. 
The Gospel of Matthew records a peculiar astro ­nomical event that occurred at the birth of Christ. Mathews has applied the 





World & Nation 
Thursday, December 3, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Carbon trading legislation fails 
SYDNEY — Australia’s Senate on Wednesday defeated the government’s plan to implement a carbon pollution trading sys­tem to fight global warming, dashing hopes of setting an example for other nations at 
U.N. climate change talks next week. 
The scuttled proposal would have placed Australia alongside the European Union and a handful of other places that have or are considering “cap-and-trade” systems to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and burnished Prime Minister Kevin Rudd’s international reputation as a leader on the issue. 
Instead, Rudd, will attend the next one U.N. conference with a big setback on his hands. 
Ilegal immigrant given consular post 
ASUNCION, Paraguay — Paraguay named an undocumented U.S. immigrant to run its consulate in New York, discovering his illegal status only when the man returned home to get his diplomatic papers and was denied a 
U.S. visa. 

Paraguay’s foreign ministry acknowledged Wednesday that it was a mistake to name Augusto Noguera as the consulate’s “first official,” but said President Fernando Lugo annulled the decision as soon as he was informed of the U.S. Embassy’s visa denial. 
Vice Foreign Minister Manuel Maria Caceres told The Associated Press that the decision to name Noguera as a diplomat Sept. 21 was made in good faith since the ministry didn’t know of his legal status in New York. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Incomplete border tunnel found 
SAN DIEGO — The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration says Mexican authorities dis­covered an incomplete tunnel that extends into San Diego and is equipped with a lift system, ventilation and lighting. 
The DEA said Wednesday that the tunnel runs nearly 1,000 feet from its entry in Tijuana, Mexico, including 860 feet into the United States. There is no exit on the U.S. side. 
The DEA says Mexican authorities arrested more than a dozen people inside the tunnel Wednesday. No arrests have been made in the United States. 
The tunnel reaches a depth of 90 to 100 feet and authorities think it has been under construction for about two years. 
Suspect charged with attempted murder 
FORT WORTH, Texas — An Army psychia­trist who may face the death penalty after the mass shooting at Fort Hood was charged Wednesday with 32 counts of attempted pre­meditated murder relating to the scores of soldiers and two civilian police officers injured in the attack, military officials said. 
Maj. Nidal Hasan has already been charged with 13 counts of premeditated murder after the Nov. 5 shooting in a build­ing at the Texas Army post where soldiers must go before being deployed. Army offi­cials have said he was armed with two pis­tols. 
The additional charges come less than 24 hours after Hasan’s civilian attorney was notified that the Army plans to evaluate Hasan to test his competency to stand trial as well as his mental state at the time of the shooting. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Lawmaker pleads guilty to charges 
INDIANAPOLIS — The 2008 Democratic candidate for Indiana’s lieutenant governor pleaded guilty Wednesday to a charge that he misrepresented himself as a state legislator last summer to avoid arrest for public intoxication. 
Former state Rep. Dennie Oxley II, 38, pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor charge during a court hearing originally set to con­sider a defense motion to suppress evidence in the case. 
A Marion County judge who accepted the plea gave Oxley a one-year jail sentence, sus­pending all but two days, which he has already served. 
Stem cell research restrictions lifted 
National Insitute of Health approves new 13 stem cell lines for tax-paid research 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Scientists can start using taxpayer dollars to do research with 13 batches of embryonic stem cells and the government says dozens more cell lines should be available soon, opening a new era for the potentially life-saving field. 
President Barack Obama lifted eight years of restric­tions on these master cells last spring. But $21 million­and-counting in new proj­ects were on hold until the National Institutes of Health determined which of hundreds of existing stem cell lines were ethically appropriate to use. 
“This is the first down payment,” Dr. Francis Collins, NIH’s director, said Wednesday as he opened a master registry. “People are champing at the bit for the opportunity to get started.” 
Thirteen stem cell lines — created by Children’s Hospital Boston and Rockefeller University — are first on that list. Another 96 embryonic stem cell lines are undergoing NIH review, and 20 or more could get a decision by Friday, Collins said. 
And researchers have notified the NIH that they may apply for approval of another 250 stem cell lines. 
“The field has been wait­ing with bated breath for this announcement,” said Dr. George Daley of Children’s Hospital Boston, whose lab created 11 of the newly approved lines. He has about 100 vials of cells from each batch already banked and ready to ship to researchers around the country. 
The numbers mark a big change from the Bush administration, which had limited taxpayer-funded research to about 21 stem cell lines, those already in existence as of August 2001. Scientists say newer batches were created in ways that made them far better candidates for suc­cessful research. Indeed, 

AP The federal government has cleared 13 new stem cell lines for testing, allowing companies to take cells from human embryos and use them for research. 
only one of the Bush-era stem cell lines is among the 96 now under consideration. 
Wednesday’s announce­ment means that researchers who were awarded $21 mil­lion in stem cell research grants earlier this year can start using the approved lines immediately, projects that include work to one day repair damaged heart tissue and grow new brain cells. Millions more in stem cell money is due out later this winter, funds from the eco­nomic stimulus package. 
Embryonic stem cells can morph into any cell of the body, and scientists hope to harness them so they can create replacement tissue to treat, possibly even cure, a variety of diseases, from diabetes to Parkinson’s to spinal cord injury. 
Culling those cells destroys a days-old embryo, something many strongly oppose on moral grounds. But once created, the cells can propagate indefinitely in lab dishes. 
Federal law forbids using taxpayer money to create or destroy an embryo. All the stem cell lines involved in Wednesday’s announce­ment were created from fertility clinic leftovers — embryos that otherwise would have been thrown away — using private money. NIH is reviewing the rest to see if they also meet ethics requirements for use in taxpayer-funded health research. Among the requirements: That the woman or couple who donated the original embryo did so voluntarily and were told of other options, such as donating to another infertile woman. 
Why do scientists need so many choices? It’s not just to supply the demand of a growing field. There’s a lot of variability from batch to batch in how the stem cells perform, Daley said. Some are better at turning into blood-producing cells than muscle-producing ones, for instance. 
It has to do with the genetics of the original embryo, and probably also with the recipe used to cre­ate and nurture the stem cells — an environment that can trigger genes to switch on and off at differ­ent times, explained Daley, who has government fund­ing to study those impor­tant differences. 

Legislators propose lowering consent age 
Associated Press 

SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico — Legislators are hoping to lower the age of sexual consent in Puerto Rico from 16 to 14, arguing that com­plaints from protective parents are overwhelming courts and teens should not be prosecuted for their sexual curiosity. 
“Many children have faced criminal proceedings for experimenting with their sexuality,” said local Rep. Charlie Hernandez, a sponsor of the legislation. “That to me seems outra­geous.” 
The proposal would reverse a 2004 amendment making it illegal to have consensual sex with anyone under 16, the minimum age for marriage with parental blessing. 
That decision was part of broader changes to Puerto Rico’s penal code, making it difficult to gauge what con­sent age most lawmakers support. 
The proposal to lower the consent age faces stiff opposition from reli­gious groups, who say it would lead to more pregnancies and an increase in single mothers struggling to raise a child. 
“This is nothing but a plan to initi­ate minors into a sexual life,” said Juan M. Gaud, a member of the Alliance of Christian Lawyers. “We are raising 14-year-olds to be mothers.” 
But the 14-year-old limit is backed by the head of the government Women’s Advocate Office, Ivonne Feliciano, who says education is key to helping teens. 
Rep. Liza Fernandez, co-president of the committee expected to endorse the change for consideration by the House and Senate, says parents too often file complaints that overwhelm courts when both teens consented to sex. 
She said parents are out of touch who say girls ages 15 and 16 have no idea what they are doing when they agree to have sex. 
“I don’t know what world they’re liv­ing in,” she said. “They know what they are doing, even if it’s irresponsible.” 
Puerto Rico’s teen pregnancy rate has dropped every year from 2003 to 2007, the newest figures available, but the rate still remains slightly higher than that of the U.S., according to the island’s health department. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 3, 2009 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
Woodman said about 360 students are returning from studying abroad to live on campus next semester and about 450 students are leav­ing campus to study abroad, graduate early or live off-campus. 
“Normally students want to live in the com­munity where they lived 

“In many cases, people work out deals with each other and friends take each others’ spots,” he said. “Rectors are good brokers of that.” 
Woodman said students who don’t make an arrange­ment with a rector or friend submit a form through ORHL and are assigned to a hall that has space, but students can indicate preferences. 
Like Benson, junior Marina 

before. We “When I heard I 
want to keep wouldn’t get back that sense of 
into my hall, I sent 
community,” he said. “But out a mass e-mail to 
sometimes it’s see where there just a question 
would be space. I only
of how many 

people are heard back from 
leaving and about half the rectors how many peo­
and most of the
ple are return-

responses were
ing in a certain hall.” negative. It was very For the most 
disheartening.” 
part, ORHL leaves place ­ment of stu -Marina Ramos dents in certain junior halls and with certain room-Ramos, cur ­rently study­ing in Fremantle, Australi a, heard last year that there would be no room for her to return to her residence hall spring semes­ter. 
“When I heard I wouldn’t get back into my hall, I sent out a mass e-mail to see where there would be space,” Ramos said. “I space in Badin Hall and jumped on the chance to live there with a friend who is also abroad this semester. 

“I don’t know anyone in Badin and I would rather live where all my friends are liv­ing,” she said. “But I will have the chance to meet some new people.” 
Benson said she also con­tacted several different rec­tors last spring along with two friends also studying abroad this fall to find some­where to live on campus for the spring semester. 
“Some of my friends were going abroad in the spring and told me a triple might be available in Badin for us so we emailed the rector,” she said. “It seems like it’s much easier for people studying abroad in the spring because they do rooms picks like usual.” 
For students who didn’t arrange to live in a certain hall, the housing will be posted after finals at the end of the semester, Woodman said. 
But with 360 students returning and 450 leaving, Woodman said he is confi­dent that everyone who wants to live on campus will be able to do so. 
“We are about 90 in the green this year,” he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
SENATE 
Senate reviews student government’s progress 

mates up to rectors, Woodman said. Generally, students work out an arrangement with their rec­tor and friends before leav­ing to study abroad. 

only heard back from about half the rectors and most of the responses were negative. It was very disheartening.” 
But several months later, Ramos heard that there was 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Student Senate evaluated stu­dent government’s progress this past semester and discussed sug­gestions for improvement for the remainder of the year at its meet­ing Wednesday. 
“We’re where we should be right now. All of our initiatives are in progress. They are making progress,” student body vice presi­dent Cynthia Weber said. 
Weber said this year’s adminis­tration strived to pay attention to smaller details about student life and make time to address them. 
“The little things matter, and having times during our regular meetings to talk about the little things,” she said. “To follow up on those things or to use our existing relationships to get that stuff accomplished.” 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said, “If you ask what is the function of student govern­ment, it’s to respond to the issues of the voice of the student body. 
“I don’t think there has been an issue on campus that we haven’t discussed in [Senate] or you haven’t discussed in your commit­tee,” he said. “Whether it’s the little things such as the light between Siegfried and Knott, or the big things such as Transpo.” 
Weber also said this administra­tion worked to become a focus group to represent the student body. Student government should have an idea of the student body’s opinions and then form an educa­tional, academic opinion on University issues, she said. 
“When something happens on campus, something like the Commencement decision last semester or the change in the eco­nomics department,” Weber said. “The idea that student government is educated on it and that we have a pulse of what student opinion is and that we have an educated opinion about it.” 
Weber said another goal of this administration was to increase the collaboration between student gov­ernment and local South Bend leadership. Examples of this were community meetings to promote safe neighborhoods and the Transpo initiative, she said. 
The final goal of student govern­ment was to increase its social con­sciousness of its role in the country and the world, Weber said. 
“As leaders of the student union, of the student body of Notre Dame, to encourage collaborative efforts to promote Notre Dame’s impact on the world and that’s exactly what the Global Water Initiative is designed to do this year, and the precedent that it’s designed to set,” she said. 
Schmidt said it was important for senators and members of stu­dent government to know what they are working to accomplish. 
“You should be clear why you come here every Wednesday night and I’m hoping these are the four main reasons,” he said. 
University Affairs chair Jeff Lakusta said he was impressed by this administration’s willingness to take on larger issues and make an impact globally. 
“Throughout the first three years that I was here, people tended to turn down big ideas just because it was too big,” he said. “Under this administration it’s been cool because we are not afraid to go after those bigger issues. 
“We can have an impact on glob­al water problems. I just think that’s a cool thing to realize,” he said. 
Senators also discussed room for improvement for second semester. 
Bradley McDonald of O’Neill Hall said pep rallies should be a priority next semester. 
“It seems like the biggest issue this year revolved around pep ral­lies and I think that obviously needs to be addressed and the sooner the better, so next semester is prime time,” he said. 
Matt LaFortune, who will replace the current Alumni Hall senator next semester, suggested holding a pep rally for the blue and gold game to welcome the new coach and set the tone for the next season. 
Taylor Ruby Gagan of Pasquerilla East Hall said Senate could open up communication with the student body by holding a town hall style meeting. 
Weber said it may be possible to open the Schmidt’s state of the stu­dent union address up to the stu­dent body. 
“The state of the student union address is mandatory in the consti­tution but it doesn’t necessarily have to happen in the context of Senate. We could open it up,” she said. 
Senators also filled out forms evaluating student government this year, and these forms were submitted anonymously to Schmidt and Weber at the end of the meet­ing. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


The Observer 

Business
Thursday, December 3, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Kia Sorento adopts crossover design 
LOS ANGELES — Kia redesigned its Sorento from a sport utility vehicle to a compact crossover, but managed to do so without sacri­ficing interior space. 
The new Sorento, which made its North American debut at the Los Angeles Auto Show on Wednesday, is about 3.5 inches longer and offers more cabin space than the previous SUV version. It also boasts retractable third-row seats that enable it to accommodate up to seven passengers. 
The latest Sorento features a tabbed grille and wraparound headlamps, which gives it a sleeker profile than its predecessors. Among its high-end options are a panoramic sunroof, rearview camera monitor and push-button ignition. 
Powering the Sorento is either a 2.4-liter, four-cylinder engine that will get up to 29 miles per gallon, or a slightly less fuel-efficient 3.5-liter V6. 
“It means better fuel efficiency, better ride and handling and overall experience for the owner,”Michael Sprague, vice president of marketing for Kia Motors America. 
The 2011 Sorento will be available Jan. 2 at a starting price below $20,000. 
Wal-Mart to compensate workers 
BOSTON — Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has agreed to pay $40 million to 87,500 Massachusetts employees who claimed the retailer denied them rest and meals breaks, manipulated time cards and refused to pay overtime. 
The settlement — believed to be one of the largest of its kind in the state — seeks to resolve a class-action lawsuit filed in 2001. 
An affidavit filed Wednesday by plaintiffs attorney Philip Gordon says people who worked for Wal-Mart between 1995 and this year will receive payments of between $400 and $2,500, depending upon their years of service. 
The settlement needs approval from the Middlesex Superior Court. 
A Wal-Mart spokeswoman said resolving cases of this kind serves the company’s best interests. 
In September, Wal-Mart agreed to pay $3 million to settle complaints that it didn’t its Massachusetts workers proper meal breaks. 
Comcast deal to be reviewed 
Cable TV provider expected to control NBC if approved by Federal Trade Commission 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Comcast Corp. will likely have to accept substantial conditions if the cable TV provider wants to win reg­ulatory approval for con­trol of NBC Universal’s broadcast network, cable channels and movie stu­dios. 
Although federal regula­tors probably won’t block a deal outright on anticom­petitive grounds, they could prohibit Comcast, for instance, from denying rival subscription-TV serv­ices such as DirecTV access to NBC channels and other popular pro­gramming. 
Under a deal expected to be announced Thursday, Comcast would control the Peacock network and about two dozen cable channels such as Bravo, CNBC and SyFy along with the cable lines to roughly a quarter of all U.S. house­holds that pay for TV. 
The regulatory review remains the biggest ques­tion mark now that all the corporate pieces appear to be in place. Vivendi SA is expected to sell General Electric Co. the portion of NBC Universal it doesn’t already own. GE, in turn, would sell a 51 percent exacts should and will be Oxygen; the Universal Before approving stake in the entire unit to painful because this would Pictures movie studio and America Online Inc.’s pur-Comcast. be a tremendous consoli-theme parks; and a stake chase of Time Warner Inc. 
A review by the Federal dation of market power.” in Hulu, which distributes in 2001, regulators C o m m u n i c a t i o n s Regulators probably free television program-required Time Warner to Commission and either the won’t stop the deal entirely ming online. offer online services other Justice Department or the because the two companies Comcast, meanwhile, has than just AOL on its high-Federal Trade Commission are in two different busi-23.8 million cable TV cus-speed cable Internet net-could take a year or nesses with little overlap, tomers, 15.7 million high-work. longer. Concept Capital analyst speed Internet subscribers In clearing News Corp.’s 
The deal is bound to face Paul Gallant said. and 7.4 million customers 2003 acquisition of satellite tougher scrutiny than past But federal reviewers for its phone service. The provider DirecTV, regula­ones given a Democratic will have to sort out the company also owns some tors prohibited the com-administration that has implications of allowing a cable channels already, bined company from dis-vowed to encourage diver-company that already pro-including E! Entertainment criminating against com­sity in media ownership vides cable and Internet and the Golf Channel, and peting subscription TV and ramp up antitrust connections to so many a controlling interest in the services and channels it oversight overall. Americans to take control Philadelphia 76ers and didn’t own. 
“This is a new adminis-of a vast media empire, Flyers. A key challenge in these tration that has promised too. The biggest concern fac-types of deals, Arbogast to be a tough cop on the NBC Universal owns the ing regulators centers on explained, is ensuring that beat,” said Corie Wright, NBC and Telemundo what happens when one rivals in the subscription policy counsel for Free broadcast networks; 16 company owns both distri-TV market can still get Press, a public interest local TV stations; an array bution platforms and con-access to popular pro-group that opposes the of popular cable channels tent, said Stifel Nicolaus gramming owned by the deal. “Any conditions it including CNBC, Bravo and analyst Rebecca Arbogast. merged company. 


Livestockcompanytoloseorganiccertification 
Associated Press Promiseland’s facilities in Nebraska ed their milk as organic, including 
and Missouri. But the judge did not Aurora. 

LINCOLN, Neb. — Promiseland rule directly on whether Mark Kastel, Cornucopia’s co-Livestock will lose its organic certifi-Promiseland’s practices violated director, said he’s glad that cation for four years unless it organic standards. Promiseland will likely lose its organ-appeals a ruling issued last month The Promiseland problems were ic certification, and that the USDA because the company kept inade-uncovered as part of an investigation under President Barack Obama quate records and refused to let of milk producer Aurora Organic appears to be more aggressive in its USDA inspectors review the records Dairy of Boulder, Colo., because response to complaints about com-it did have. Aurora had bought more than 12,000 panies not following the organic 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture cattle from Promiseland. rules. filed a formal complaint against No one answered the phone at “The good news for consumers is Promiseland in 2008 and accused it Promiseland’s Bassett, Neb., head-the system worked,” he said. “The of a number of violations of organic quarters Wednesday. bad news is that it took several years standards, including using non-A USDA spokesman declined to for it to happen.” organic feed and reselling conven-comment on the Promiseland case Kastel said Promiseland made it tional grain as organic. Wednesday. harder for small organic dairy farm-
A judge ruled Nov. 25 that the live-The Cornucopia Institute, a ers to compete because it wasn’t fol-stock company had violated USDA Wisconsin-based watchdog group, lowing organic standards in its oper­rules by refusing to provide records has filed several complaints against ation, so Promiseland had lower to inspectors when they visited large-scale dairies that have promot-costs. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 3, 2009 
Warmth 
continued from page 1 
offers a drop-off location and 20 percent discount for coat donations to purchase a new coat at the Notre Dame Bookstore, Varsity Shop and Hammes Bookstore on Eddy Street. 
But the coat drive is about more than just getting a dis­count on a new coat, Julie Nave, marketing coordinator for Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore said in an e-mail. 
All donations from Project Warmth go to the Center for the Homeless, the Catholic Worker, St. Margaret’s House and Hope Ministries. 
There is a competition between the dorms to collect the most items. The dorm that donates the most wins a Rudy style varsity jacket embroidered with their dorm ’s name. The jacket gets passed around each year to the winning dorm as a trophy. 
“I think it’s safe to say that Zahm will win every year. 
Zahm is looking 
for competition. 

N a v e s a i d c o n t r i b u t i o n s w i l l g o t o t h o u s a n d s o f  “The idea is to have service commission­ers and perhaps  T h o s e g u y s s h o u l d b e praised because they help out a  
f a m i l i e s a n d their children i n t h e S o u t h  other student groups that are involved in  l o t , ” H e b b e l e r said. Other sites to  
Bend area who  the community stop  d r o p o f f do na - 
are faced with m a k i n g a c h o i c e betw e e n b uy - by the center, pick up the clothes and drop them off ... and have  t i o n s i n c l u d e L a F o r t u n e Student Center, Grace Hall and  
i n g  a  w i n t e r  a meal with the  F l a n n e r  H a l l .  
coat or putting f o o d o n t h e  residents.”  Service commis­s i o n e r s f r o m  
table.  e ach dorm  are  
“What’s bet- Mike Hebbeler  responsible for  
t e r  t h a n  t h e  director of student  g a t h e r i n g  t h e  
gift of warmth t h i s h o l i d a y s e a s o n ? ” s h e asked.  leadership and senior transitions CSC  d o n a t i o n s f o r S t . M i c h a e l ’s a n d b r i n g i n g t h e c l e a n e d  

Hebb eler said the CSC also started a new campaign this season, posting weather amnesty signs around cam­pus to coincide with Project Warmth. If the temperature drops below 32 degrees, cer­tain organizations open their doors for the homeless overnight. If the tempera­ture is above 32, there is no weather amnesty. 
“We put signs up right before Thanksgiving … The idea behind the posters was just to open up student eyes,” he said. 
Pro-Life 
continued from page 1 
various ideas about things the Task Force could work on or could recommend that 
other campus groups pur­sue, Brinig said, including undergraduate research ini­tiatives, academic courses, service projects and confer­ences, among other ideas. 
In an e-mail announcing the Task Force’s formation, Jenkins also wrote of his 
intention to participate in the national 
R i g h t  t o  L i f e  
March  on  Jan.  
2 2  i n  

Washington, D.C. 
Brinig said the Task Force is helping to coordinate the details of a Mass near the time of this event, and 
other related activities. 
Brinig said the Task Force 
items to the shelters. “The idea is to have service commissioners and perhaps 
other student groups that are involved in the communi­ty stop by the center, pick up the clothes and drop them off … and have a meal with the residents, ” Hebbeler said. “The idea is to make it more than just a drop off and to engage people downtown.” 
Project Warmth will run through Dec. 9. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
International Federation of Catholic Health Institutions, 
O. Carter Snead, associate professor of law at Notre Dame, and Brinig. 
According to a University press release, the discussion will concern ongoing legal developments and how Catholic teaching and tradi­tion could inform efforts to protect the rights of con ­science of health workers, pregnant women, taxpayers and other citizens. 
Snead said organizers hope to attract a “wide and 

“What we’ve done is worked in small groups and various people have had meetings with different groups.” 
Margaret Brinig co-chair Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life 
diverse audi ­ence” to today’s panel. 
He said the event is intend­ed to spur dis­cussion and could also lead to a white paper on the topic. 
The document would “offer suggestions for the contents of an ideal set of conscience … protections for indi vid uals, institutions and 
will exist at least for the remainder of the academic year and said the group will finalize a set of recommen­dations to present to Jenkins. 
In the meantime, they have also undertaken events like today ’s panel, which fea ­tures three experts: Fr. Michael Place, chair of the citizens” related to questions 
of abortion and embryo ­destructive research. 
The white paper would be written “from the perspec­tive of a preeminent Catholic research university,” Snead said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
CCAC 
continued from page 1 
residents and students, ” Bill Kirk, associate vice president for Resident Life said of the neighborhood watch. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said off ­campus safety is a common concern to both neighbor­hood residents and stu ­dents. 
“Students and neighbors can really unite on this,” he said. 
The recent addition of a Transpo shuttle to operate on the weekends was an effort to offer a safe trans­portation option for stu ­dents, Schmidt said. 
The new route will begin Friday and will run from Library Circle to South Street Station. Schmidt said that the total round trip time for the new route will be about 30 minutes and is free for Notre Dame stu ­dents. 
The Coalition discussed security measures over winter break, including free storage for students with the help of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and increased infor­mational meetings and tips from area landlords. 
South Bend landlord Mark Kramer advised students to not only lock and alarm their residences, but also to call South Bend Police for a vacation watch of their off-campus house. 
An off -campus safety meeting sponsored by stu­dent government will take place in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library Monday at 7 p.m. 
The next CCAC meeting will be held at Holy Cross College on Jan. 27 at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler@nd.edu 
Prof’s book examines history of sin 
Special to The Observer 
G.K. Chesterton famously described original sin as “the only part of Christian theology which can really be proved.” Not everyone agrees with Chesterton, but the abundance of evidence in support of his assertion is certainly compelling. 
Familiarity with the effects of sin, overuse and abuse of the term and the exhaustion of reli­gious vocabulary seem to have dulled the culture’s appreciation for this intrinsic element of human life and striving. 
Notre Dame theologian Gary Anderson’s book, “Sin: A History,” recently published by Yale University Press, examines how understandings and descriptions of sin have changed over two millennia of biblical tra­dition, from the metaphors of physical burden, such as a scapegoat might ritually carry away, to the incurrence of those grave debts which followers of Jesus ask his Father to forgive. 
Anderson, professor of Old Testament/Hebrew Bible at Notre Dame, argues that such metaphors have more than mere literary significance. 
“When Jesus teaches his disci­social injustice, one was chan­neling the infinite merits won by Christ on the cross into a fallen world.” 
According to James Kugel, Starr Professor Emeritus of 
ples to pray for the forgiveness of their debts,” Anderson says, “he gives wit­ness to one of the most revo­lutionary moments in religious thought. For if sins are debts, then acts of virtue, like the giving of alms, are credits which fund a 
“When Jesus teaches his disciples to pray for the forgiveness of their debts he gives witness to one of the most revolutionary moments in religious thought.” 
Gary Anderson Theology Professor 
Classical and Modern Hebrew Literature at Harvard U n i v e r s i t y, Anderson’s book is “an extraordi­nary piece of detective work” which “shows how the central way of represent­ing — and con­ceiving of — sin changed dramati­cally within bibli­cal times, and 
‘treasury of merits in heaven.’ In the early church, the forgiveness of sin required some sign of per­sonal amendment and pride of place went to acts of charity. For in serving the poor one was doing more than correcting how this change in turn came to be elaborated in later Judaism and Christianity. This is an extremely important, indeed, mind-changing book for anyone interested in the history of these two religions.” 


Thursday, December 3, 2009 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Fears of Great Lake giant carp increase 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Fears that giant, voracious species of carp will get into the Great Lakes and wipe out other fish have led to rising demands that the government close the waterway connecting the lakes to the Mississippi River — an unprecedented step that could disrupt the movement of mil­lions of tons of iron ore, coal, grain and other goods. 
The dispute could become an epic clash of competing interests: commerce, environ­mentalists and fishermen. 
Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm and five environ­mental groups threatened on Wednesday to sue the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to force it to temporarily shut three shipping locks near Chicago because of evidence that Asian carp may have breached the electrical barrier that is supposed to hold them back from the lakes. 
The environmental groups went further than the gover­nor and said the Great Lakes and the Mississippi should be permanently separated to avert what Granholm called “ecological disaster.” 
Col. Vincent Quarles, com­mander of the Corps’ Chicago district, said the agency is considering all options but would not close the locks with­out first studying the possible effects. 
Environmentalists fear that the fish, which consume up to 40 percent of their body weight daily in plankton, could starve out smaller and less aggressive competitors and cause the collapse of the $7 billion-a-year Great Lakes sport and commercial fishing industry. 
The carp — which can grow to 4 feet long and 100 pounds and are known for leaping out of the water when boats are near — were imported by Southern fish farms but escaped into the Mississippi in large numbers during flooding in the 1990s and have been making their way northward ever since. 
The Mississippi and the Great Lakes are connected by a complex, 250-mile network of rivers and canals engi­neered more than a century ago. It runs from Chicago, on the southern edge of Lake Michigan, to a spot on the Mississippi just north of St. Louis. 
The American Waterways Operators, a trade association representing the tug and barge industry, said closing the locks would lead to higher shipping costs because com­modities would have to be sent overland via truck or train across Illinois before being put back onto vessels. 
“The impact is going to be large,” said Lynn Muench, the group’s senior vice president for regional advocacy in St. Louis. “It could definitely impact day-to-day living.” 
Tens of millions of tons of goods are moved annually along the shipping canals or through the locks that lead into Lake Michigan. Muench had no estimate of the value of the cargo, which includes salt, sugar, molasses, cement, scrap metal and petroleum. 
In the continuing struggle to keep the fish out, Illinois envi­ronmental officials planned to dump poison Wednesday night in a nearly six-mile stretch of the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal near Lockport to kill off the carp while the electrical barrier is turned off for main­tenance. Crews planned to use large cranes with nets to scoop up an estimated 200,000 pounds of dead fish, which will be taken to a land­fill. 
The electrical barrier, which was installed in 2002 to repel fish with a non-lethal jolt, has long been the only thing standing between the carp and Lake Michigan, the gateway to the four other lakes. But offi­cials said two weeks ago that DNA from Asian carp had been found between the barri­er and one of the locks on the lake. No actual carp have been found in Lake Michigan. 
Environmentalists and Granholm said the locks should be closed while the scope of the problem is estab­lished. 
“This is an immediate threat to the Great Lakes, to our sport and commercial fishery, and as such it requires some emergency actions appropri­ate to the level of that threat,” said Ken DeBeaussaert, direc­tor of Michigan’s Office of the Great Lakes. “Closing the locks to prevent the possible spread of the Asian carp into the Great Lakes is an appro­priate response on an emer­gency basis.” 
The environmental groups also said the government should find a way to perma­nently separate — through physical barriers or other means — the Great Lakes and Mississippi watersheds so the invasive species has no way of passing between the two. 
Last fall, environmental groups offered several possi­ble solutions, including erect­ing concrete walls, construct­ing more locks, even lifting barges over the locks. 
The issue “takes on a whole new urgency because of the Asian carp emergency,” said Andy Buchsbaum of the National Wildlife Federation. “We don't know where the carp are, and the risk of their being in the canals is too great.” 
Some fishing enthusiasts doubt the government will consider closing the locks. Dan Thomas, president of the Elmhurst, Ill.-based Great Lakes Sport Fishing Council, said too many industries and too many jobs would probably be affected. 
“Ideally it’s the way to go, but many things that are ideal don’t always come to fruition because there are too many other circumstances,” he said. “They can still be contained, but only with concerted effort and a sense of urgency to do what is necessary on a timely basis.” 
Scientists say more than 180 invasive species have entered the Great Lakes, multiplying rapidly and feeding on native species or competing with them for food. Millions of dol­lars have been spent trying to control the zebra mussel and the round goby fish, which already have moved between the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basins. 
PoliceseekDNAofslainYalestudent 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD — An attorney for the fiancee of a Yale lab technician charged with killing a graduate student said Wednesday he’s been told authorities are seeking a sample of her DNA. 
Robert Berke, attorney for Jennifer Hramadka, told The Associated Press that it’s unclear why authorities want her DNA. He says he was told in September after Annie Le was killed that she is not a suspect. 
“I’ ve been advised that they’re seeking a sample of her DNA,” Berke said. 
Hramadka’s boyfriend, Raymond Clark III, is charged with killing the 24­year-old Le five days before Le’s wedding in September. 
Berke said investigators wanted to interview Hramadka shortly after the crime, but the interview did not take place. 
Berke declined to comment on his reaction to the move. 
A prosecutor and police declined to comment. 
Clark and Hramadka were seen leaving a coffee shop in a car in which “blood-like stains” were found hours after Le was killed, accord­ing to search warrant affi­davits unsealed Wednesday. 
New Haven police said in September that they didn’t expect to make more arrests in Le’s killing. 
Le ’s body was found stuffed behind a research lab wall in September on the day she was supposed to get married on Long Island. Autopsy results show Le was strangled, but the motive remains unclear. 
Experts said investigators may seek someone’s DNA to exclude them as a suspect. 
“It sounds like they have some DNA they don’t know who it belongs to,” said Dr. Bruce Goldberger, director 
of toxicology at the University of Florida. “They’re trying to rule her in or rule her out as a con­tributor to that DNA.” 
Dr. John Howard, presi­dent of the National Association of Medical Examiners, cautioned against drawing conclusions about the move. He said investigators might want to address any claims or antici­pated claims by the defense, such as that blood found was the suspect's fiancee’s from a nosebleed. 
Two days before Clark was arrested, investigators said they found blood “in plain view” on the kitchen floor near the entrance to his apartment, according to the search warrants. The war­rants do not indicate the source of the blood found in Clark’s apartment. 
Authorities took plastic door panels and carpeting with “blood-like stains” from the Taurus in which Clark was riding in the hours after Le’s disappearance. 
Clark sent e-mails to Le “in the recent past,” the affi­davits said. Her e-mail address was found in a labo­ratory locker labeled “Ray,” the documents said. 
Clark has not yet entered a plea. His public defender, Joe Lopez, has said he intends to plead not guilty. 
The affidavits show that police searched for evidence in Clark's home, two cars that he used and numerous lockers in the laboratory building where Le’s body was found. 
The suspect “has gone to great lengths to conceal evi­dence in multiple locations in unusual places,” the affi­davits said. 
Investigators found a white rag, tweezers, scissors, a screwdriver and several plastic tubes in a clogged drain pipe in the building where Le’s body was found, the affidavits said. 
Portions of the affidavits released Wednesday were blacked out. 
Police had previously revealed that they discov­ered other items linking Clark to Le's death, includ­ing a green-ink pen under Le's body with her blood and Clark ’s DNA. Police have said Clark signed into the secure building with a green pen on Sept. 8, the day Le disappeared. 
They had also said DNA from Le and Clark was on a bloody sock found hidden in a ceiling. Elsewhere in the building, they found a pair of work boots labeled “Ray-C” that had blood-like stains 
on them, and a hospital scrub shirt with blood-like stains that was similar to the shirt Clark wore that day, police had previously said. 
In arrest warrant affi ­davits released last month, Clark told investigators that he never socialized with Le or had contact with her out­side of work. He told investi­gators that he knew Le for about four months, accord­ing to court papers. 
Clark told police that Le left the building 15 minutes before him, carrying her notebook and two bags of mouse food. An extensive search of the crime scene failed to locate Le's note­book or her shoes. 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, December 3, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
Are you there, world? It’s me, Advent 

I don’t mean to sound bitter, but this happens every year. For my entire four-week span, I am largely … ignored. I am, please recall, an entire season. I’m four whole weeks long — some years, nearly five; more than half 
Kate Barrett 

the length of Lent and with no fasting or abstinence Faith Point required. I have my own colors — two of them, in fact — and my own music. I get some of the best readings in the entire Bible. By the time I pass the torch to the 12 Days of Christmas, I’ve been short enough that I haven’t worn out my welcome but long enough that you could really sink your teeth into me. If you were paying attention, that is. 
But no. By about Halloween — earlier if you frequent the big-box craft stores full of plastic poinsettias and more Christmas craft projects than you could do in a lifetime — the entire country is already breaking the speed limit trying to get to Christmas. A consumer’s Christmas. Thanksgiving only gets any notice because the food is so good peo­ple can eat their way into fourteen hours of shopping on Black Friday. 
Now, I didn’t come here to whine, so I’m sorry if I sound all attitude-y. And I don’t expect the whole world to stop and take notice of me. Well, not yet, anyhow. For now, I want to start small. If I could just get a few more of you people at Notre Dame to show me some love, it’d be a start. Trust me, Christmas means so much more when you’ve spent some time (four weeks, say) with me first. 
I am the season that’s just about the exact opposite of the “brand identity” the retailers, the economists, the enter­tainers and the pop culture have devel­oped for Christmas. Come on, give me a chance and I’ll help you see that we all need a little time to allow God to trans­form our hearts, to prepare our lives for the coming of Christ. He came as an infant 2,000 years ago and we will cele­brate that. We also believe that Christ lives in the world now, in the poor, the vulnerable, the victims of terrorism, war and poverty, and that he will come again to bring about the Kingdom of God in its fullness. 
Maybe you’ve already friended me, so you know what the world is missing when it blows right by me to get to Christmas. Go tell a few people. Invite them to an Advent prayer or reconcilia­tion service. Put some Advent music on your iPod (there’s actually a lot of it, you know). Go to Mass more often or read the daily readings of the Church (http://www.usccb.org/nab/). It just doesn’t get any better than the selec­tions from Isaiah chosen for almost every day of Advent. 
Waiting is very underrated. People are too used to speed, and you know, you get way too impatient with anything slow. But don’t forget that half the fun of a big event is the windup, the antici­pation, the waiting. I am the season of waiting, and yet most of you just race to decorate for and celebrate Christmas as early as possible. So I’m here to ask you, please, slow down. Christmas can wait. Get truly ready for Christmas by hanging out with — ahem — me for a while. Otherwise, Christmas will come and you won’t be ready. Oh, sure, you’ll have turned in your papers and taken your finals; maybe you’ll have all your presents wrapped, but will your heart be ready to welcome Christ the Lord? 
After you slow down, quiet down. I am the season that calls us to “Prepare the way of the Lord,” but those prepa­rations get drowned out by too many other noises. Get away from the ads for free shipping and deep discounts, from the super-intense group study sessions, even from the Grinch, Charlie Brown and your favorite Christmas carols. Go to your hall chapel or the Basilica or the Grotto and enjoy the silence. Walk around the lakes, which are pretty cool even when the weather’s not great. 
The people of Israel, who also waited for the coming of the Lord, hoped that he would deliver them from oppression, from poverty, exile and pagan rulers. They asked John the Baptist what they could do to prepare. His response, which you’ll hear when you listen to the gospel on my third Sunday, seems a perfect reminder of how we too can best prepare while we wait for the Lord to come: “Whoever has two cloaks should share with the person who has none. And whoever has food should do likewise.” 
Are you there, world? It’s me, Advent. 
This week’s Faith Point was written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Laura McCrystal Eric Prister 
Megan Loney Allan Joseph 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Maija Gustin 
“Examine what is said, not “Envy is the ulcer of the soul.” 

Viewpoint 
him who speaks.” 

Stephanie Vossler Socrates Greek philosopher Arab Proverb 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, December 3, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Please don’t waste food 
Everyday, especially in the morning, the Huddle Mart, Reckers, Irish Ink and many other shops on the University of Notre Dame’s campus throw away large amounts of food that have gone bad. Vegetable salads, donuts, yogurts, etc. are just thrown into the trash can. Why does this happen all the time? The managers say this is a very common phenomenon. However, I don’t consider this “com­mon.” Everyday, millions of people in our world are suffering from and dying of starvation, and we are just throwing away food and considering it “com­mon.” 
Wasting food is a sin. It is a sin that none of us should allow. When you pray, when you give thanks you should put your gratitude into real use. We col­lege students should not just let such things happen around us. When you are studying at LaFortune, at Reckers or at Irish Ink, have you ever been aware of the huge amount of wasted food every day? Food is precious as shown by a very famous Chinese poem that every 5-year-old child knows. The poem was written by one of the greatest poets of all time, Bai Li. It says, “Farmers weeding at noon, Sweat down the field soon. Who knows food on a tray, Thanks to their toiling day?” 
These shops on campus can simply give away expired food at the at end of the day. Those shops can give food to homeless people in the neighbor­hood or hungry students. The shops are not losing anything, for they can’t sell the leftover food. If they don’t give food away for free, they are still going to throw it away in the morning. While we thank God with gratitude for the food He gives us, we are wasting it everyday on Notre Dame’s cam­pus. But giving food to people puts food to good use. This is what we should do. This is our respon­sibility. 
This is very simple. Just put expired food on the counter and label it “free.” People who want it will take it. However, some people might argue “then everyone will come and get it for free.” Yes, this might happen. But this does not change the amount of food being sold. Those managers are just worry­ing about that people will not buy food anymore, and more food will be leftover and at last given away. In fact, people would rather buy salads for lunch around noon or buy donuts for breakfast in the morning. The amount of leftover food would not change because people are more willing to buy it during the day rather than have to wait until late at night to get it for free. This is just another way of dealing with leftover food. Nothing else will change. So why not just do everyone a favor? 
Qiaoning Li 
freshman Farley Hall Dec. 1 

Losing the meaning of a contract 
My godfather was a dean at Notre Dame and a member of the University’s athletic counsel for over 40 years. I have had the fun of hearing many behind the scenes stories of Notre Dame football etc.The most common themes were about Notre Dame “handshake” relationship with coaches and that Notre Dame athletes were students first. To that end Coach Weis has exceeded all former stan­dards with the team cumulative average at 3.0. 
We have not won as many games as we and Coach Weis would like but he is a Domer and true to his roots with the standards of excellence he has set for the young men he teaches every afternoon in the fall. 
It seems tragic that we cannot refind the stan­dards of excellence as a group of alumni and expect the University to honor its contract to Coach Weis. 
Not honoring this contract reflects very poorly on us and Notre Dame. It shows that we do not live by the standards we expect of the world in which we live. 
Let us as the Notre Dame family honor our word and honor our contract to the coach. That contract and its extension was what we wanted. We got it. Let’s be real Domers and keep our word. 
Regardless of the final decision, I will honor and respect my Alma Mater, but believe we will all be weakened by Notre Dame not honoring the contract it wanted. 
Steve Sturtz 
alumnus 
Class of 1977 
Nov. 24 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Thank you Weis 
I just want to offer you my thanks for your five years of work as our football coach. Although the atmosphere around campus hasn’t always been the kindest towards you, I, among others hopeful­ly, appreciate the time you’ve given to this pro­gram. Thank you for having the courage to take a job that had a lot of baggage and was the center of some of the most difficult scrutiny in all of col­lege athletics. And what made it worth it for you was not the paycheck, the perks, or the benefits. Rather, it was your love for Notre Dame and the love for the game of football. Although the University has decided to move on, there are those here at Notre Dame who would like to thank you for rising to the challenge, and we wish you the best of luck in your future endeavors. 
Daniel Quinlan 
junior St. Edwards Hall Nov. 30 
So-called discounts 
Imagine my surprise when I checked my email the Tuesday before Thanksgiving break to see that the Bookstore was holding student apprecia­tion days. I thought my chance had finally come to receive a discount on namesake merchandise at the bookstore. Alas, my dreams were dashed after reading the fine print at the bottom only to learn that this phenomenal deal does not include books. To quote a friend, “The Bookstore prac­tices amount to nothing less than usury” and to add to that, the Bookstore might as well be locat­ed in the seventh circle of hell. Side note: Bookstore price for Dante’s “Inferno:” $13, ama­zon.com price: $8.57. 
The outrageous prices the Bookstore charges are an enormous burden to all students and the amount of money printed in the Bookstore is shameful. If the Bookstore really appreciated stu­dents it would offer discounts on things they actu­ally needed like books, calculators and computer hardware, software, and supplies (all of which are not items available for a discount). Sure it’s great to give me a discount on my Christmas shopping, but give me a break. The “discounts” at the Bookstore will hardly cut into the absurd profit margins the Bookstore makes and prices will still be higher than what a reasonable person would expect to pay. Don’t slap me in the face with student appreciation that in no way shows appreciation for students by giving them deals on items they actually need. 
Christopher Marquad 
senior off campus Nov. 24 
Come on Notre Dame 
I just wanted to point out the irony I felt when I received a letter from Fr. Jenkins asking for money to continue the “great work of the University” on the same day he threw away $18 million. 
Molly Rivard 
alumnus Class of 2008 Dec. 1 

The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Thursday, December 3, 2009 
Warning Bros. Records Inc. 

explain / What hap ­pens to me / Often I/ Am called by name / To clean up.” Studio: Warning Bros. Recording Inc. 
The next track, 
Recommended Tracks: “Hindsight,” “Nowhere Lullaby,” “Done,” 

“Hindsight, ” has a catchy tinge of pseudo­
“Oh Yeah,” “Pat” 

twang on the guitars and somewhat insight­ful, somewhat nonsen­sical lyrics with lines like, “Hindsight’s given me / Too much memo­ry / There’s too much never seen / It’s always there” contrasted with 



Well known among the indie rock crowd for their off-kilter yet influential musical style and a woodsy sound contrasted with heavy, catchy guitar hooks, the Boise-based band Built to Spill has been an influence on several other alternative rock bands in the Northwest, including, but certainly not limited to, Modest Mouse and Death Cab for Cutie. Built to Spill’s front man Doug Martsch has cited Dinosaur Jr., Neil Young and Pavement as his own influences. 


The rock band produced some of the most ambitious, creative and inspiring indie rock albums of the 1990s. From their debut, 1993 ’s “Ultimate Alternative Wavers ” to 1997’s “Perfect from Now On” to 1999’s “Keep It Like A Secret,” Built to Spill could do no wrong in the realm of genuinely inspired and critically acclaimed records. 
The 90s brought such singles as “Car,” “I Would Hurt a Fly” and “Carry the Zero.” Since then, the band has seemed content with aimless jamming with not much of a foreseeable purpose. 
Martsch’s guitar playing is still laudable as always and the tunes are somewhat catchy in an offbeat way, but the newer albums have had something lacking in terms of the authentic creativity that Built to Spill was known for in the 90s. 
Their newest album, “There Is No Enemy,” however, is a pleasant surprise. 
It’s the same old laidback LP with typically slow but varying tempos, wayward vocals and layered guitar rhapsodies, but with an added level of emotion­al urgency which drives the album. 
And the lyrics, as always, are not meant to be a reflection of Martsch’s personal experience. According to Pitchfork, “his lyrics contain no personal meaning … they are chosen more for their meter and suggestiveness than anything else.” 
The album starts off strong with opening track, “Aisle 13,” a rocker which begins with loud electric guitars but slows to a steady beat with lead singer distinctive vocals, much akin to that of Modest Mouse front man Isaac Brock’s, and the well-crafted lyrics, “Every day / Something strange / I can ’t 

“What about Canada / It’s paradise with pines and ice / Morning comes in freight ships while you’re sleeping / Battling 
two ideas with no surprise.” 
“Nowhere Lullaby” is more of a slow dreamy piece with a steady soft guitar melody and soothing vocals with insightful lyrics, “Another nowhere lullaby / You can rest or you can try / And this waste it shines in every way,” and “Good Ol ’ Boredom ” has Martsch cueing up the multiple-layered guitar, especially towards the end. 
“Life’s a Dream” is more of a soft harmonious piece with endearing 
“ooh-la-la” backup vocals, horns dur­ing the bridge, and quieter but still catchy guitar hooks. The lyrics give the impression that the speaker is content with defeat: “Finally decid­ed, and by decide I mean accept / I won’t need all those other chances I won’t get.” 
The next track, “Oh Yeah,” starts out with a somewhat slow, eerie gui­tar and transitions into low heavy vocals, which are similar to that of a Pink Floyd ballad. The questioning 
lyrics add a more philo ­sophical ele ­ment to the piece, “And if God / Does exist / I am sure He / Will forgive / Me for doubting Him / For He’d see / How unlikely He / Made Himself seem.” 
“Pat ” begins with fast-paced rockin ’ guitar riffs and even faster-paced seemingly desper­ate lead vocals, but the guitar solo in the middle is very well-executed. The lyrics channel the same blis­tering sense of desperate urgency with, “ N o th i n g’s worse than never / Falling in a dream ’s where / We can see 
together. ” In contrast, 
“Done” is a typically laid back slow-paced bal­lad, with ambling guitar melodies and drawling vocals, with the lyrics, “It’s forgiven it’s for you / All the problems will come true / Said it once I’ll say it once again / It’s all forgotten.” 
Altogether, the album is a creative effort on Martsch’s part, back up to par with the Boise band’s albums of the 90s. With the emotional level added to the intriguing lyrics and instrumen­tation, “There Is No Enemy” leaves the audience with better expectations for albums to come. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at ackilpat@hotmail.com 
There Is No Enemy 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, December 3, 2009 page 13 

‘Taking Woodstock’ @ 10 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall 101 
This most recent film from director Ang Lee (“Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon” and “Brokeback Mountain”) tracks the world changing events of Woodstock and their effect on one young man, Elliot Tiber. Working as an interior designer in Greenwich Village, Elliot is forced to return home to Bethel, New York, in order to help his parents and their failing motel. He soon discovers that a neighboring town has plans to host a music festival, and in hopes of drum­ming up business for the motel, gets involved. “Taking Woodstock” will also be playing on Friday and Saturday evenings at 8 and 10:30 
p.m. Tickets are $3. 

‘Bright Star’ 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 
p.m. @ DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
John Keats is one of the most famed, admired and beloved poets of all time and, in this exciting new movie from director Jane Campion, we are given a glimpse into the trag­ic yet passionate life of such a talent­ed and inspired man. The movie, “Bright Star,” chronicles the intense but brief love affair between Keats and the girl next door, Fanny Brawne. Their romance is forced to bloom in secret, as the two are an unlikely match. Yet with each poetry lesson, Keats and Fanny fall deeper in love. “Bright Star” will be showing on Saturday again at 6:30 and 9:30 
p.m. Tickets are $3 for students. 
Joshua Radin Concert 10 p.m. @ Legends 
Joshua Radin has become a fixture on the singer/songwriter scene with his music featured on such shows as “Grey’s Anatomy,” “Scrubs” and “American Idol.” Originally educated in the fine arts, Radin pursued a music career at the request of friends and fans. He released his first album, “We Were Here,” in 2006 to much acclaim. It was followed up by “Simple Times” in 2008. Radin has collaborated with several well known artists including Ingrid Michaelson and Imogen Heap. Influenced by the Beatles, Paul Simon and Bob Dylan, Radin has a soothing, smoky element to his voice. Radin will appear at Legends on Saturday night. 
University Band Holiday Concert 
7:30 p.m. @ DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
It’s time to get in the holiday spirit, and what better way than holiday music? Join the University Band in celebrating the holidays this Sunday evening with their annual winter concert. Consisting of both Notre Dame students and South Bend resi­dents, the University Band is a won­derful bridge between our campus and the greater South Bend commu­nity. The band is sure to play many Christmas favorites. This is an opportunity to support local musi­cians as well as enjoy some festive music. This is a ticketed, though free, event, so call the DPAC ticket office to reserve tickets. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 


By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 

“No Country for Old Men” and the Coen brother’s newest film, an immaculately woven, darkest of dark comedies, “A Serious Man,” are made for each other. Like two per­fectly fitted pieces of a puzzle, together they form a universally bleak view of the world and speak volumes about human isolation and the fog of religion. Surprisingly, though, without an ounce of blood dropped and no Anton Chigurh, and no brilliantly deep Cormac McCarthy passages, “A Serious Man” reduces its counterpart to “lighter fare,” and itself stands as one of the cruelest, most drea­ry portraits of human hope in film history. The two are perfectly complementary, yet so dif­ferent in style and tone. Nonetheless, “A Serious Man” is to Judaism and Hashem what “No Country for Old Men” is to Christianity and God, the way the religion sees Him. 
Larry Gopnik (Michael Stuhlbarg) is getting everything but the kitchen sink thrown at him. An uninspired college professor, he anx­iously awaits the university board’s decision on his tenure. Meanwhile, a student of his threatens to tear his career apart by black­mailing him for a passing grade in catch-22 fashion. To make matters worse, his seeming­ly ideal suburban family is anything but. His son, in order to feed his pre and post-Hebrew school weed craze, is stealing money from him, while his daughter has in turn been smuggling money out of Larry’s wallet for some time now in order to save up for a nose job. Meanwhile, the line for the bathroom is always “a minute” away from no longer being an issue, only, Larry’s genius but mentally unstable brother, Arthur (Richard Kind), sim­ply won’t get out. Oh, and Larry’s heartless wife is leaving him for no particular reason for the patronizing, “serious man,” Sy Abelman, whose idea of a divorce is a three-person bonding affair where Larry is, in the end, left with nothing. And then there’s Larry’s deteriorating health. And there goes the kitchen sink. 
Perhaps a reminiscent piece where the brothers reflect on their lives growing up in a middle-class suburban Jewish family in 1960s Minneapolis, “A Serious Man” is a breath of fresh air even amongst similarly themed films because of its distinct, culturally specific feel. But it goes from being a breath of fresh air to something truly great because of the brilliant but often transparent hand of the Coen broth­ers. They bring out the best in their hardly recognizable cast that includes none of their regulars, but the real success here is the mar­riage they form between comedy and a more than serious tragedy of the common man, which often go hand-in-hand one moment and then clash, creating a violent whirlwind of emotions the very next. Scenes of Larry breaking down out of nowhere despite remaining almost stoic throughout the rest of his ordeals contrast sharply with the film’s odd, almost misplaced humor, making the film a seeming paradox in that it’s a non-trag­ic tragedy. 
A “non-tragic tragedy,” “A Serious Man” manages to be so incredibly dark without being over-emotive and without getting caught up in “the man,” but instead in “the man’s hope.” What “the man,” or Larry, is is a man broken down, lost, feeling as though life is choking him to death, and what he needs, as we are constantly reminded throughout the film by a piece of rock music, is “some­body to love.” That need to connect leads Larry to turn to religion and the way of Hashem to guide him through his seemingly insurmountable problems, and it’s God, or the expectation of God, that proves his undoing. Three rabbis he seeks out can’t help him and, instead, they enthuse about a parking lot, tell him a useless (albeit grandly put together music montage that proves the highlight of the film) tale of a dentist, and decline to see him, respectively. 
That’s the central theme here: the need to have somebody to love, and, as the Coens put it — the bleak reality that no one is there. Not family. Not friends. Not God. We watch this unfold through the life of a man, one who we’re never supposed to identify with, but instead look down on from a bird’s eye view, almost like gods ourselves, unable or perhaps unwilling, as the film suggests, to do anything. 
It’s dark. It’s darker than dark. It’s black, “A Serious Man” is. Ultimately, it’s black gold. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 


Observer Graphic I ANDREA ARCHER 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, December 3, 2009 
NFL 

League concussion policies made more stringent 
Players will no longer be allowed to return to a game or a practice in which they suffer a head injury if symptoms are present 
Associated Press 
NFL teams now have new, stricter instructions for when play­ers should be allowed to return to games or practices after head injuries, guidelines that go into effect this week. 
In the latest step by the league to address a hot-button issue, commissioner Roger Goodell sent a memo to the 32 clubs Wednesday saying a player who gets a concussion should not return to action on the same day if he shows certain signs or symp­toms. 
Those include an inability to remember assignments or plays, a gap in memory, persistent dizzi­ness, and persistent headaches. 
The old standard, established in 2007, said a player should not be allowed to return to the same game if he lost consciousness. 
Wednesday’s memo also says players “are to be encouraged to be candid with team medical staffs and fully disclose any signs or symptoms that may be associated with a concussion.” 
Nearly one-fifth of 160 NFL players surveyed by The Associated Press from Nov. 2-15 replied that they have hidden or played down the effects of a con­cussion. 
The league said its concussion committee, team doctors, outside medical experts and the NFL Players Association developed the new standards. 
NFLPA assistant executive direc­tor George Atallah said the union is “encouraged by this new poli­cy.” He added that the NFLPA “will continue to examine these issues independently to recommend the best possible policies and proce­dures.” 
The new policy states, in part: “Once removed for the duration of a practice or game, the player should not be considered for return-to-football activities until he is fully asymptotic, both at rest and after exertion, has a normal neurological examination, normal neuropsychological testing, and has been cleared to return by both his team physician(s) and the independent neurological consult­ant.” 
Teams were told this month they have to find an outside neu­rologist who can be consulted on concussions, and NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said Wednesday all of those independent doctors have been approved and are in place. 
Since last month’s congressional hearing on NFL head injuries, momentum has been building for changes in league policy. The revised return-to-play rules come about a week after Goodell sent a memo to clubs informing them that the two co-chairmen of the league’s concussions committee had resigned and that he has been looking into possible rule changes. 
On Wednesday, Cleveland Browns running back Jamal Lewis was put on injured reserve with post-concussion symptoms, ending his NFL career. Lewis had previ­ously said he would retire at the end of the season. His teammate, starting safety Brodney Pool, also went on IR after getting at least his fourth known concussion last weekend. 
They were among 11 players listed on Wednesday’s league-wide injury report with concussions. Another eight were listed with head injuries. 

The two starting quarterbacks from last season’s Super Bowl — Pittsburgh’s Ben Roethlisberger and Arizona’s Kurt Warner — sat out last Sunday after saying dur­ing the week they planned to play despite getting head injuries the previous week. 
“The evidence demonstrates that team medical staffs have been addressing concussions in an increasingly cautious and conser­vative way,” Goodell wrote in Wednesday’s memo. “This new return-to-play statement rein­forces our commitment to advanc­ing player safety. Along with improved equipment, better edu­cation, and rules changes designed to reduce impacts to the head, it will make our game safer for the men who play it, and set an important example for players at all levels of play.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Clemson’s C.J. Spiller named ACC Player of the Year 
Associated Press  ou t d i s t a nce G e o rg ia Tech quarterback Josh Nesbitt, who  practice. The 25th-ranked Tigers take  Spiller was the nation’s only player this season to account  Spiller led the ACC with an average of nearly 184 all-pur- 
GRE E N S B O R O,  N . C .  — had eight. Virginia Tech  run- on No. 12 Georgia Tech in the  for touchdowns five different  p os e  y ar d s  an d  w a s  t h e  
Multi-talented C.J. Spiller has  ning back Ryan Williams, the  A C C  ch am pi on sh ip  ga m e  w a ys  — ru s h in g , pa ss i n g,  league’s fourth-leading rush- 
run  away with  two  awards  league’s rookie of the year,  Saturday night.  receiving, and  on  kick and  e r,  a ver ag i n g  7 6  y a r d s  a  
f ro m  th e  A t l a n t i c  C oa st  ha d  tw o  v otes  an d  Yel l ow  Separate ballots  were  cast  punt returns  — and had pass- game.  
Conference. He’s looking for a  Jackets defensive end Derrick  for the offensive, defensive  ing, rushing and receiving TDs  Clem so n  c o a c h  D ab o  
third.  Morgan had one.  and overall player of the year  in one game, a victory against  Swinney said Spiller would  
T h e C l em so n a l l-p ur p o se  When Spiller received a text  awards. Spiller had 24 votes  North Carolina State.  have his No. 28 jersey retired  
threat was named Wednesday  m e s sa ge  w ith  n e w s  o f  th e  in offensive player of the year  He returned four kickoffs  next fall. Swinney hopes his  
as the league’s top player fol- award Wednesday, he said he  voting to Nesbitt’s 10. Morgan  and a punt for scores this year  star tailback isn’t through col- 
lowing  a  vote of 40 members  lost it emotionally remember- was  the top defensive player  and has eight total returns for  lecting awards.  
of the Atlantic Coast Sports  ing all he’d gone through this  with 21 votes in that category,  TDs during his career.  “He is the Heisman (Trophy)  
Media Association. The senior  year at Clemson.  and North Carolina defensive  He scored at least  once  in  to me,” the coach said.  
was also chosen the ACC’s top  “I’m  h appy  to  b e  n am e d  e n d  R o be rt  Qu i nn  a nd  every game this season while  Spiller is the seventh Tiger  
offensive player.  t ha t,  b ut  m y  m a i n  re a s on  Clem so n  s a fety  DeA ndr e  l e a d i n g  C l e ms o n  t o  t he  to be named player of the year  
In player of the year voting,  coming back  was  to win this  M c D an i e l  h a d  sev e n  v ote s  Atlantic Division title and its  and the first since Michael  
Spiller received 29 votes to  conference,” Spiller said after  apiece.  spot in the league title game.  Dean Perry in 1987.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
——————————————— 
Singers for new pop group. Info 574-261-6857 
——————————————— 

FOR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES ——————————————— OFF-Campus housing, Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and 4 bdr, furnished and unfurnished. January and June 2010 leases available. www.cespm.info Call 574-968-0112 
——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ——————————————— Considering Adoption? ND Alums Hoping to Adopt. If you are an expectant mother searching for a family, please see our website at http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­file.net. ——————————————— 
THE GRAB & GO LADIES WANT TO THANK THE ANONYMOUS PERSON WHO WAS SO THOUGHTFUL TO LEAVE FLOW­ERS FOR US. THANKS AGAIN FROM THE GRAB & GO LADIES. 
——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— Skinny Pete: If there's one thing I know, it's never to mess with moth­er nature, mother in-laws and, mother freaking Ukrainians. ——————————————— Charlie Croker: What happened? Left Ear: I had. A bad. Experience. Damn it. "I'm" deaf. 
——————————————— 
Handsome Rob: He only answers to "The Napster" now, Charlie Charlie Croker: Oh, no. I am not calling you The Napster. Lyle: Why not? You call him Left Ear. Left Ear: Well, I am. Lyle: And him Handsome Rob. Charlie Croker: Well, that's because he is Handsome Rob! Lyle: Well you can call me The Napster. ——————————————— Stella: I trust everyone. It's the devil inside them I don't trust. ——————————————— 

Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, December 3, 2009 
page 15 

NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Coaches’ Poll 
team previous 
1 Kansas 1 2 Texas 3 3 Villanova 4 4 Kentucky 5 5 Duke 7 6 Purdue 6 7 Syracuse 9 8 West Virginia 8 9 Michigan State 2 10 Washington 14 11 North Carolina 12 12 Tennessee 11 13 Connecticut 13 14 Georgetown 19 15 Ohio State 18 16 Gonzaga NR 17 Florida NR 18 Louisville 16 19 Clemson 19 20 Butler 10 21 UNLV NR 22 Texas A&M NR 23 Georgia Tech 25 24 Cincinnati NR 25 California 23 
NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball Coaches’ Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  Ohio State  3  
4  North Carolina  4  
5  Tennessee  5  
6  NOTRE DAME  6  
7  Texas A&M  7  
8  Baylor  8  
9  Florida State  9  
10  Xavier  10  
11  LSU  11  
12  Duke  12  
13  Arizona State  13  
14  Vanderbilt  16  
15  Virginia  18  
16  Georgia  19  
17  Texas  14  
18  Oklahoma  17  
19  California  15  
20  Pittsburgh  20  
21  Michigan State  25  
22  Maryland  NR  
23  DePaul  21  
24  Dayton  NR  
25  Louisville  NR  



around the dial 
NCAABasketball 
Southern California at Texas 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAAFootball 
Oregon State at Oregon 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


Iverson leaves retirement for 76ers 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA — Allen Iverson’s first stint with the Philadelphia 76ers ended with the team yanking his nameplate off his locker and editing him out of video high­lights before he was even traded. 
The Sixers might want to find him a new locker and cue up some clips. Philly fans, pull out that No. 3 jer­sey from the closet. A.I. is a Sixer again. 
In a move that appeared farfetched after their acrimo­nious split in 2006, the 76ers reunited with the briefly retired Iverson on Wednesday in a move designed to spike sagging attendance and fill in for the injured Lou Williams. 
Coach Eddie Jordan said Iverson likely will start and stay the entire season. 
“I told him I would like for him to start, and that’s where it sort of ended,” Jordan said. “And he was 
really  like  a  kid  at  
Christmas.”  
Iverson  will  make  his  

debut Monday night at home against Denver — one of three teams he’s called home since leaving Philly. The 10­time All-Star-turned-journey­man is determined to prove he still has something to offer in that No. 3 jersey. His new boss is betting Iverson can help the staggering Sixers make a push in the Eastern Conference playoff race. 
IN BRIEF 

Woods apologizes for 
unnamed ‘transgressions’ 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. — Tiger Woods said he let his family down with “transgressions” he regrets “with all of my heart,” and that he will deal with his personal life behind closed doors. His statement Wednesday fol­lows a cover story in Us Weekly maga­zine that reports a Los Angeles cock­tail waitress claims she had a 31­month affair with the world’s No. 1 golfer. 
“I have not been true to my values and the behavior my family deserves,” Woods said on his Web site. “I am not without faults and I am far short of perfect. I am dealing with my behavior and personal failings behind closed doors with my family. Those feelings should be shared by us alone.” 
Woods did not offer details of any alleged relationship. 
“I have let my family down and I regret those transgressions with all of my heart,” he said. 
“He’s like a rock star,” team president Ed Stefanski said. 
And he’s back for his encore. 
He antagonized his coach­es and opponents his first time around. Perhaps hum­bled, he signed after being reduced to a bench player in Denver and Memphis and forced to accept the veteran’s minimum salary to return to his NBA roots. 
“If there’s going to be a chance for him to do it and make it work, there’s no doubt in my mind Philadelphia is the best spot for him to try and do it,” Stefanski said. 
Stefanski took a low risk financially to sign Iverson, but possibly derailed the long-term improvement of a slumping team tying to build around a core of young play­ers. Rookie Jrue Holiday, who started at point guard for Williams, heads to the bench, and Jordan’s Princeton offense could hit the scrap heap. 
The Iverson-to-Philly talks were underway once Williams was lost for eight weeks with a broken jaw. Stefanski said he never would have considered a second act for Iverson had it not been for the injury. 
Iverson’s reps asked Stefanski about a possible comeback last week. Iverson, his agent and business man­ager met with Stefanski and Jordan on Monday to jump-start contract talks. 
Hines Ward apologizes to 
team for distraction 
PITTSBURGH — Steelers wide receiver Hines Ward extended his apology to quarterback Ben Roethlisberger to all of his team­mates, saying he didn’t mean to create an unnecessary distraction. 
Ward called Roethlisberger on Monday to say he was sorry for questioning why the quarterback didn’t play in the Steelers’ 20-17 loss to Baltimore the night before. Ward said he wasn’t aware a team doctor advised Roethlisberger not to play because of lingering headaches resulting from a concus­sion. 
During a team meeting Wednesday, Ward apologized to the rest of the Steelers for his ill-chosen remarks made when he first learned the quarterback wouldn’t play. Roethlisberger says the two talked and put the misunderstand­ing behind them. 
Braves upgrade pitching by 
signing closer Wagner 
ATLANTA — The Atlanta Braves took another major step toward solid­ifying their pitching staff for next sea­son, agreeing Wednesday to a $7 mil­lion, one-year contract with closer Billy Wagner. 
Next up: the offense. 
“The bullpen is one of the areas we needed to upgrade to get where we want to go,” Braves general manager Frank Wren said during a news confer­ence at Turner Field. “Billy was at the top of our list. The first day of free agency, we gave him a call.” 
The six-time All-Star gets $6.75 mil­lion in 2010, and his deal includes a $6.5 million club option for 2011 with a $250,000 buyout. The option would become guaranteed if he finishes 50 games next season. 
The signing of Wagner to replace last year’s co-closers, Rafael Soriano and Mike Gonzalez, was Atlanta’s second big move of an already busy offseason. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, December 3, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

TCU’s Patterson agrees to contract 
No. 4 Horned Frogs will likely compete in BCS bowl game after undefeated season 

FORT WORTH, Texas — Gary Patterson has always felt he has a better chance of competing for a national championship at TCU than at some other places with auto­matic BCS access. 
With his No. 4 Horned Frogs set to play in a Bowl Championship Series game — and perhaps a national title, depending on this weekend’s games — it might be hard to argue with him. And with his name being mentioned for the Notre Dame job, Patterson agreed Wednesday to a as a defensive coordinator with coach Dennis Franchione after the 1997 season, when the Frogs were coming off a 1-10 season. He was promoted when Franchione left three years later for Alabama, though the school did a national search before making that move. 
“We had a vision, as you can see on that pyramid,” Patterson said, referring to the pyramid of goals in the team’s meeting room. “That pyramid has not changed since we start­ed, of reaching 

new contract “This was my frst a BCS bowl, intended to head coaching job, going to a keep him at national cham­
but it also, now going
TCU through pionship and 
2016. doing a lot of 
“Like all of us, home.” things. And a you always like lot of people to prove people laughed and a
Gary Patterson 
wrong. A lot of lot of people 
Horned Frogs coach 
people thought shook their 
that TCU, because of where we started 12 years ago, we couldn’t do this,” Patterson said. “We’ve achieved something that all those other people talk about because they’re part of a con­ference and yes, they have the access right now, a little bit quicker than we do. ... We ’ve now jumped over a hurdle being able to get to a BCS game.” 
Patterson has led TCU to five 11-win seasons the past seven years. TCU just com­pleted its first undefeated regular season since 1938, when it won its only AP national championship. 
“Like I’ve said many times, I don’t think people under­stand what kind of place TCU and Fort Worth is,” Patterson said. “This was my first head coaching job, but it also, now going into 12 years, it’s my home.” 
TCU (12-0, 8-0 Mountain West) will find out Sunday which of the big-money BCS games it will play in. The Frogs are fourth in the BCS standings, the highest ever this late in the season for a team from a conference with­out an automatic bid. 
“We don’t feel like our work is done,” Patterson said. “We feel like we have a mountain to climb, a championship to win.” 
There is still a chance the Frogs could be the first BCS buster to play for the national championship if No. 3 Texas loses to Nebraska in the Big 12 championship game Saturday night and they stay ahead of Cincinnati in the final BCS standings. The other spot will be filled by No. 1 Florida or No. 2 Alabama, who face off in the SEC championship game. 
Patterson has an 85 -27 record in his ninth season at TCU. His contract had been through 2014, and the revised deal includes pay raises he and his assistant coaches. The private univer­sity doesn’t release financial details. 
Patterson, 49, came to TCU 
heads and they were just saying, well, that’s nice.” 
TCU wrapped up the regu­lar season and outright Mountain West title with a 51 -10 victory over New Mexico on Saturday. It was the Frogs’ seventh consecu­tive victory by at least 27 points, a stretch that included BYU and Utah, last year’s BCS buster. 
The Frogs have a 14-game winning streak, matching the seven decade -old school record set in 1938 when Heisman Trophy winner Davey O’Brien was their quarterback. 
Chris Del Conte, who took over as TCU’s athletic direc­tor only six weeks ago, said he had not been contacted by Notre Dame or any other schools about talking to Patterson. 
“We weren’t going to wait until the fight came to us,” Del Conte said. “I wanted to make sure they knew we wanted to keep them. That’s why we acted swiftly and quickly.” 
Patterson was named this week as the Mountain West coach of the year, and TCU swept all the individual awards as well. Quarterback Andy Dalton was named the league’s offensive player of the year, standout end Jerry Hughes got the defensive award and returner Jeremy Kerley was recognized for special teams. 
It is the second year in a row that Patterson has gotten his contract extended. It was pushed to 2014 after last sea­son, weeks after strong spec­ulation that Kansas State was interested in hiring Patterson to lead his alma mater. 
“As a famous coach once told me, just understand the grass is always green, but there’s no great job. Every place has its problems, ” Patterson said. “I’m just real­ly excited about getting an opportunity to know where I’m at, and what we’ve been able to do. Obviously, our sys­tem works here.” 


Thursday, December 3, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Players call for seven-game divisional series 
Talk of extra games comes as part of labor union talks; Players’ Union head Michael Weimer in support 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Get ready for more postseason baseball games — and fewer off days. 
Players would like to see the first round of playoffs expand to best-of-seven when their next labor contract starts in 2012, Michael Weiner said Wednesday in his first news conference since replacing Donald Fehr as 
casters. As a result, the Angels and Yankees played just eight games in the first 20 days of the playoffs. 
“Everybody’s in agreement that the postseason schedule needs some adjustment,” Weiner said. “I’m a hockey fan as well as a baseball fan, and the pace of play this postsea­son was more of the way you expect a hockey season to go 
than a baseball 

the union head. “There is a lot  “There is a lot of  season to go.” Because the  
of sentiment for  sentiment for a  p o s t s e a s o n  
a seven-game division series,” Weiner said. “I  seven-game division series.”  extended into November, the offseason mar- 
think a properly  ketplace began  
c o n s t r u c t e d  Michael Weiner  later  than  
p o s t s e a s o n schedule could a c c o m m o d a t e  Head of MLB Players’ Union  usual. Just nine of 171 free agents have  
three  seven- reached agree- 

game series but still have it ments, causing some agents to extend over a shorter period of accuse owners of possible col-time than what happened this lusion. year.” “I’m concerned a little bit. 
The first round has been It’s been a little bit slow,” best-of-five since it began in Weiner said. “I think it’s too 1995. early to draw any conclusions, 
Weiner hopes the length of though, with respect to how the postseason can be short-this market will play out.” ened next year and was happy Weiner was unanimously to hear commissioner Bud approved as executive director Selig say he will try to cut off of the Major League Baseball days. Four extra days off were Players Association during the added in 2007 at the request annual meeting of its executive of baseball’s television broad-board in Scottsdale, Ariz. The 47-year-old Harvard Law School graduate was hired by the union as a staff lawyer in 1988 and was promoted to general counsel in 2004. He succeeds the 61-year-old Fehr, who had been in charge since December 1983 and in June announced his intention. 
During bargaining in 2002 and 2006, Weiner was among the union’s chief negotiators. He praised management for “a recognition that the union is a fixture in the game” but admit­ted some baseball owners may push for a tougher proposals in bargaining to replace the contract that expires in December 2011. 
“If there are owners who misjudge or underestimate the resolve of the players this time, I think they’ll be met with the same surprise that owners of the past have met with when they misjudged the resolve of the players,” Weiner said. 
Baseball owners have said intend to propose the amateur draft be expanded to include players from outside the United States who currently are free agents before they sign. The union is willing to agree. 
“There was plenty of senti­ment for saying that players from Texas should be subject to the same rules as players from the Dominican Republic,” he said. 
But the union will resist attempts by management to institute a slotting system of fixed salaries for draft picks. 
“This union has always stood for the proposi­tion that, you suspected that the request for a salary floor is a precursor to a request for a salary cap,” he said, “and you know what the position of this union has been on salary caps.” 
Weiner anticipates some 
change in the drug program for next year but didn’t spe­
know, players cific what they should have the “Everybody’s in will be. Baseball right to bargain agreement that the does not test for individually for human growth 
postseason schedule
their compensa-h o r m o n e tion,” he said. needs some because there is 
S i m i l a r l y, adjustment.” not a validated players histori-urine test. cally have been “I think the 
Michael Weiner 
against having testing policy is payroll floors for Head of MLB Players’ working great,” teams. Boston Union he said. “Does Red Sox owner that it mean John Henry, that it can’t be concerned that improved? Of some clubs aren’t spending course not.” revenue sharing money, has He also was unconcerned the suggested that payroll floors annual report from the drug may be necessary. program’s independent admin­
“If a club legitimately trying istrator showed 108 players to compete has a plan that had therapeutic use exemp­calls for them to be at a partic-tions (TUEs) this year to use ularly low payroll for a given otherwise banned substances year as part of a longer-range because of attention deficit plan to compete the following hyperactivity disorder. year or years after that, man-“The number of new exemp­agement should have that flex-tions is a far lower number,” ibility,” Weiner said. Weiner said. “A healthy per-
There also is another reason. centage of applications for new 
“Players historically have TUEs were rejected.” 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, December 3, 2009 
NHL 

Luongo, Canucks overcome Devils 
Vancouver goalie makes 27 saves in win; Savard scores 200th goal in Bruins’ victory 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — For one night, Roberto Luongo held the upper hand over Martin Brodeur in the duel to be Canada’s starting Olympic goalie. 
While a decision on who will get the bulk of the playing time at the Olympics in Vancouver in February is still a while away, Luongo laid out a compelling case Wednesday night in a showdown featuring two of the NHL’s top goalies. 
Luongo made 27 saves, and Henrik and Daniel Sedin had a hand in three first-period goals as the Vancouver Canucks beat the New Jersey Devils 5-2. 
‘‘I’ve got to check my phone to see if Steve Yzerman texted me,’’ said Luongo with a smile, referring to the executive director of Canada’s Olympic team. 
If Yzerman was watching, he saw Luongo impressively shut out the Devils over the final two periods. 
Luongo was at this best late in the second with Vancouver holding a 3-2 lead. Luongo, flat on his back, made three point-blank stops on Zach Parise who had his 10-game point streak snapped. 
‘‘It was a bang-bang play,’’ Luongo said. ‘‘Once I made the initial save, I was just trying to get some low coverage. Luckily they didn’t have much time to lift it over me.’’ 
The final shot in the sequence somehow rolled under Luongo and out of the crease. 
‘‘I didn’t see it because I was laying on my back,’’ Luongo said. ‘‘At that point, I was doing a Dominik Hasek impression.’’ 
That’s not a bad way to impress Canadian Olympic hockey officials. 
Alex Burrows, Sami Salo, Daniel Sedin, Alexander Elder and Jannik Hansen had goals for the Canucks, who won for the fifth time in seven games. 
Niclas Bergfors and Travis Zajac scored for the Devils, who had won three straight and six in a row at home. Brodeur made 21 saves in one of his poorest outings of the season. 
‘‘It’s that one game that peo­ple see us matched up,’’ Brodeur said of the matchup with Luongo. ‘‘It is what it is. For me, it’s just a disappoint­ing loss for us.’’ 
And one that got out of hand quickly for the Devils. 
After a tentative opening five minutes, the tempo turned fast and furious with the Canucks leading 3-2 after one period. 
It was all Vancouver early, with the Sedin twins combin­ing for four points as the Canucks jumped out to a 3-0 lead. It marked the 70th time both of the Sedins recorded multiple points in an NHL game. 
Burrows got the Canucks rolling with his third goal in four games. Daniel Sedin flipped a shot on net that Burrows deflected. It hit Brodeur’s glove before trick­ling in at 6:33. 

Salo got the second Canucks goal with a slap shot from the right point at 10:03 as Mikael Samuelsson, right in front of the crease, screened Brodeur. 
The Canucks caught the Devils in a line change, leaving Daniel Sedin wide open in the left circle to rip a shot past Brodeur at 12:32. 
Then the momentum shifted in New Jersey’s favor. 
Bergfors put the Devils on the board, taking a drop pass from Andy Greene to beat Luongo from the left circle at 
16:05 with the teams skating 4-on-4. 
New Jersey mounted its best sustained pressure in the final minute and it paid off as Zajac scored with 6 seconds left. 
In the third, Elder put the Canucks up 4-2 at 1:36, flip­ping a shot from above the left circle between the legs of Devils center Rob Niedermayer and Brodeur. 
Vancouver put the game out of reach at 5:18 as Hansen polished off a 2-on-1 break with Kevin Bieksa . 
Luongo came up strong mid­way through the period when the Devils had a 5-on-3 power-play advantage for 1:06. He turned away Zajac and Patrik Elias, preserving the Canucks’ 5-2 advantage. 
‘‘It was not a good start for us,’’ Devils coach Jacques Lemaire said. ‘‘We were lucky to get two goals back and make it a game at that point. We did play better in the sec­ond period, but not good enough. It was one night when nothing was working and our guys didn’t have the legs they had in other games.’’ 
Bruins 4, Lightning 1 
It’s been a busy week for Marc Savard. 
A day after signing a seven-year contract extension that could keep him in black and gold for the rest of his career, the Boston forward scored his 200th NHL goal and Marco Sturm scored twice on Wednesday night to lead the Bruins to a victory over the Tampa Bay Lightning. 
‘‘Signed a contract and gets his 200th goal,’’ Bruins coach Claude Julien said. ‘‘These things have a way of kind of happening.’’ 
Tim Thomas, making his second straight start since missing six games with an undisclosed injury, stopped 39 shots to give the Bruins their sixth victory in seven games. Patrice Bergeron had a goal and two assists, Mark Recchi had three assists, and Zdeno Chara had two assists to help Boston move back into first place in the Northeast Division. 
‘‘The expectation was so high. Us getting off to a slow start kind of threw everybody for a loop — fans, media,’’ Julien said. ‘‘I think we’re find­ing our game slowly.’’ 
NBA 
Nets lose record-breaking 18th 
above center court with Del Harris, the former Dallas assis­tant who will join him on the bench. 
‘‘Nobody likes to lose. Period. And obviously we made it clear and you all know this is a devel­opmental year, but nobody expected to be 0-17,’’ Vandeweghe said before the game. ‘‘That’s just obviously not acceptable and I think that it’s not acceptable to anybody and especially the players.’’ 
The longtime losers had their chances to avoid history. They led Minnesota by 19 in the third quarter on opening night before losing 95-93 on Damien Wilkins’ putback at the buzzer, and lost 81-80 on Nov. 14 at Miami when Dwyane Wade made a 3-pointer with 0.1 seconds left. 
New Jersey hung around for a quarter in this one. The Mavs shot 71 percent in the first peri­od, but the Nets turned six Dallas turnovers into 11 points and fought their way to a 28-all tie. 
It was over a few minutes later. Dallas shot 89.5 percent in the second, hitting its final nine shots and making all 10 free throws while building a 77-50 lead. 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — All those losses in what’s now the worst start in NBA history had already beaten down the New Jersey Nets . 
So when the Dallas Mavericks hit them with a 49-point second quarter, the Nets simply had no fight left. 
New Jersey was pounded into NBA infamy Wednesday night, falling 117-101 for its 18th straight loss to start the season. 
‘‘I think what happens is you know it wears on you,’’ interim coach Tom Barrise said. ‘‘It’s not a two-game losing streak. We play four games a week in this league and it’s every day and every other day, and you know you hear it and you start to feel it a little bit.’’ 
The Mavericks made 17 of 19 shots and opened a 27-point lead in a nearly flawless second peri­od, burying the Nets early in for­mer New Jersey captain Jason Kidd’s second trip back to his old home. 
The Nets passed the 1988-89 Miami Heat and 1999 Los Angeles Clippers, who both dropped their first 17 games. New Jersey’s next chance to end the streak comes Friday at home against Charlotte. 
If the Nets defend the way they did Wednesday, the skid could last a while longer. 
Dallas shot 81 percent in the first half, the first NBA team to make 80 percent of its shots in a half since the Denver Nuggets hit 82 percent against the Clippers on April 4, 2006, according to STATS, LLC. 
‘‘At this point, I feel the streak has definitely gotten the best of us. It’s really not starting to get to us now,’’ guard Chris Douglas-Roberts said. ‘‘So when a team goes on a run, we kind of, it’s almost like we give up, which is really unfortunate but that’s what it looks like to me. We kind of give up and just lay down instead of trying to fight.’’ 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 24 points and Kidd had 16 points, 10 assists and eight rebounds for the Mavericks, who led by 31 points in the third quarter. Erick Dampier added 18 points and 11 boards, and Jason Terry also scored 18 points. 
The Nets, the NBA’s worst team in scoring and shooting, could only blame their defense this time, which gives new coach Kiki Vandeweghe something to address when he runs his first practice Thursday. 
Vandeweghe, the Nets’ general manager, replaced the fired Lawrence Frank and will coach the team the rest of the season 
— but not quite yet. Though his hiring was announced Tuesday, Vandeweghe won’t coach his first game until Friday, leaving Barrise in charge one more time. 
Vandeweghe handled the pregame coach’s meeting with reporters, then sat in a seat 



Thursday, December 3, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NBA 

Ilgauskas sets Cavs’ record for games played 
Nine Hawks record double-digits in victory over Raptors; Magic becomes NBA’s first 15 game winner 
for what Z has accomplished.’’ 
Associated Press 
O’Neal was proud to share in 

CLEVELAND — As 20,000 Ilgauskas’ big night. fans filled the arena with the ‘‘I don’t consider him my droning sound of his nickname, backup,’’ he said. ‘‘I consider Cavaliers center Zydrunas him my partner.’’ Ilgauskas choked back tears. James finished with 12 
The big man, known simply points, 10 assists, eight as ‘‘Z,’’ finally had his moment. rebounds and another chase­
‘‘That was one of the coolest down block of Suns guard things I’ve experienced in my Jason Richardson, whom he life,’’ he said. victimized last season. The Cavs 
Ilgauskas, who overcame had seven players in double fig-severe foot injuries early in his ures. career to become an All-Star It was the second straight center, scored 14 points and set blowout loss for the Suns, who a Cleveland team record for were throttled 126-99 by the games played, and Shaquille New York Knicks on Tuesday O’Neal scored 12 as the night. Cavaliers dismantled Shaq’s Channing Frye scored 22 former team with a 107-90 win points and Steve Nash had 14 over the Phoenix Suns on but also five assists and six Wednesday night. turnovers for Phoenix, which 
LeBron James just missed a was held to a season low in triple-double as the Cavs hand-points. ed the Suns their second Wearing throwback uniforms straight lopsided loss. from the 1980s, the Cavaliers 
Ilgauskas, forced to accept a gave the Suns an old-school backup role when the Cavs thumping. Cleveland raced to a acquired O’Neal, became the 33-14 lead after one. team’s career leader with 724 ‘‘We got nothing going at all games played — finally. He had in the first quarter,’’ Suns coach been expected to surpass for-Alvin Gentry said. ‘‘It was an mer teammate and general uphill battle from there. We’ve manager Danny Ferry on got some work to do. We’re a Saturday against Dallas, but good basketball team. We’re was never put in the game by just struggling right now. There coach Mike Brown. are things we’ve got to get cor-
The snub angered James, rected, but it’s not anything we who called out Brown in sup-can’t do when we get a couple port of his teammate. of practice days. 
When Ilgauskas checked in ‘‘We’re not in any kind of tle offense to keep up with the Detroit on Sunday. Coach Mike Orlando Magic were concerned 
with 3:50 left in the first quar-panic situation.’’ Hawks’ highest-scoring game Woodson used the time to stress that not having their All-Star ter, Cleveland fans broke into O’Neal’s basket to open the since Jan. 30, 1993, when they defense in practice. forward could lead to a slow deafening chants of ‘‘ZZZZZZ’’ second half put Cleveland up beat Philadelphia 149-123. ‘‘It got a little intense the last start. and gave the team’s career 59-29, and Phoenix could only The Raptors suffered their couple of days and we needed That never happened. And 
leader in rebounds and blocks get as close as 12 during fifth straight loss. The Hawks that,’’ Woodson said. ‘‘We had now that he’s found his groove, an extended standing ovation garbage time in the fourth. regained their momentum after been lagging from a defensive Lewis is a big reason the Magic that began as soon as the 7-O’Neal spent 1 1/2 seasons losing three of four. standpoint and rebounding the are the NBA’s first 15-game foot-3 center began peeling off with the Suns, who believed he ‘‘We were simply outclassed,’’ ball.’’ winner. his warmups. was the missing piece to lead said Toronto coach Jay Triano. After they were outrebounded Lewis scored 17 of his 20 
‘‘That’s the closest I’ve ever them to an NBA title. Instead, ‘‘They just destroyed us.’’ 53-27 in a 94-88 loss at Detroit points in the third quarter, come to tears on the basketball the All-Star center mostly Atlanta, held below 90 points on Sunday, the Hawks had 26 helping the Magic (15-4) pull floor,’’ Ilgauskas said. slowed their high-octane in its last three losses, enjoyed rebounds in just the first half away for an easy victory over 
Ilgauskas stoically stood in offense and Phoenix won just an offensive revival against the against Toronto and claimed a the New York Knicks on front of his locker after the one playoff game during Raptors, who are next to last in 51-29 advantage for the game. Wednesday night. game. He didn’t field any ques-O’Neal’s stay in the Southwest. the NBA with their average of The Raptors arrived in His suspension for testing tions and apologized to Cleveland acquired Shaq for 109.1 points allowed. Atlanta early Wednesday after positive for an elevated testos­reporters for not being avail-the same reason, and to this ‘‘We didn’t magically appear losing to Washington in Toronto terone level is behind him, and able since Saturday’s puzzling point, he has improved the last on the charts defensively,’’ on Tuesday night and fell to 0-4 Lewis just counts that as anoth­benching. Cavs, who have won 13 of 16 Bosh said, adding the team’s in the second game of back-to-er positive for his team. 
‘‘Obviously, I was very disap-since an 0-2 start. ‘‘defensive effort hasn’t been backs. ‘‘There’s a number of things pointed I didn’t play in the last ‘‘They don’t look bad at all. A there for a while. ... I mean, ‘‘I think it had something to that we want to do to let people game,’’ he said. ‘‘I know I’m a lot of folks talk about how bad tonight was just a total embar-do with their back-to-back know that we are a good team,’’ good player. It made me more they look with Shaq. I dis-rassment.’’ games,’’ said Atlanta’s Jamal he said. disappointed and upset with agree,’’ Suns forward Amare Bosh sat out much of the first Crawford, who had 16 points. Dwight Howard added 19 acts that followed and this Stoudemire said. ‘‘I think they half with foul trouble and most ‘‘We jumped out early and did-points and 10 rebounds, and whole mess that has been cre-look fairly good. Shaq played of the second half after the n’t look back the whole game.’’ Mickael Pietrus had 17 points ated. I’m not going to go into decent out there. He created Hawks led by more than 20 DeMar DeRozan had 21 as Orlando scored 41 points in any details. I’m going to be a some havoc defensively, got points. The two points were points and Marco Belinelli the decisive third quarter. The bigger man and walk away some baskets deep in the paint Bosh’s low total since scoring added 16 for Toronto. Magic have won nine of their from this. I know when I go to and rebounded well. Shaq’s not one point at Milwaukee on Nov. Eleven Atlanta players scored last 10 games. bed at night my conscience is looking horrible, I’ll tell you 6, 2007. and Maurice Evans had nine Wilson Chandler had 24 clear. that. He’s looking pretty good Bosh’s only points came on points to narrowly miss giving points, and Danilo Gallinari 
‘‘I love this team. I love my and the Cavs are looking solid two free throws in the third the Hawks 10 players in double added 20 points for the strug­teammates. They are like a as well.’’ period, but he was more con-figures. gling Knicks, who have lost six family to me. I’m going to come cerned about his team’s defen-Josh Smith had 16 points, of their last seven games. every day to work and try my Hawks 146, Raptors 115 sive lapses. including 12 in the opening Reserve Nate Robinson didn’t hardest. Hopefully we can win a For a change, the Toronto ‘‘We’ve got to care about it,’’ period, and four blocks. Marvin play for the Knicks even after championship for this city Raptors couldn’t lean on Chris Bosh said. ‘‘That’s what it Williams added 15 points. the guard scored 24 points — because they deserve it. It has Bosh and the Atlanta Hawks comes down to. Have some The Hawks stretched their 22 in the fourth quarter — in a not been an easy ordeal.’’ didn’t have to lean on Joe pride. Without that pride teams lead by scoring 42 points in the loss to the Magic last week in 
Brown, who said Tuesday that Johnson. just score at will, like they did second period, a season high New York. 
he wished he would have han-The Hawks came out far bet-tonight. for any period, for a 75-54 half-‘‘We want to win, and if he’s dled Saturday’s game different-ter in that comparison of two of ‘‘If we did care we wouldn’t time lead. Atlanta kept on the conducive to winning, then he’ll ly, sidestepped the issue before the NBA’s top 11 scorers. give up 145 points.’’ pressure by adding 39 points in obviously be back in the line-the game. Afterward, team Al Horford had 24 points to The Hawks had nine players the third quarter. up,’’ Knicks coach Mike owner Dan Gilbert released a lead nine scorers in double fig-in double figures for the first Mike Bibby’s three 3-pointers D’Antoni said. ‘‘If not, then not. statement in which he said ures and the Hawks enjoyed time since Dec. 4, 1987, against early in the first 4 minutes of I’m not going to explain every-Ilgauskas had asked that his their best offensive night in 16 New Jersey. the third quarter left each of thing. I did not play Darko milestone not be acknowledged years to beat the slumping ‘‘I think everybody pretty the Hawks’ starters in double (Milicic). No one asked me during the game. Raptors on Wednesday night. much knows we’re an explosive figures. about that. Why didn’t I play 
‘‘It is fitting that Z broke the ‘‘It was fun. It was one of team,’’ Johnson said. ‘‘Our con-Woodson left his starters on Marcus (Landry) last game? We record for most games played those nights where we couldn’t sistency is where we’re lacking. the bench most of the final could go through the whole in a Cavaliers uniform,’’ Gilbert miss,’’ Horford said. We’ve got to figure it out on the quarter. thing. said. ‘‘His journey to this point Bosh, who averages 25.2 road instead of just bringing it ‘‘I won’t sit here and explain has been remarkable in many points, had a season-low two at home.’’ Magic 118, Knicks 104 it, and it’s something that we’re ways and we all have a great points in only 16 minutes. That The Hawks were playing their With Rashard Lewis suspend-trying to build a winning deal of respect and admiration left the Raptors with far too lit-first game since losing at ed for the first 10 games, the group.’’ 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, December 3, 2009 
NHL 

Bruins sign Savard to 7-year extension 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Center Marc Savard passed on a chance to become a free agent next sum­mer for an opportunity to finish his career with the Boston Bruins. 
The team’s leading scorer each of the past three seasons signed a seven-year contract extension, beginning next sea­son, worth slightly more than $28 million. The club announced the deal on Tuesday. 
Savard said Wednesday the contract allows him to stay with a contending team in a city that loves sports. 
“I think I stated earlier in some articles that I wanted to stay in Boston for the rest of my career and it looks like I’m going to have that chance,” Savard said at a news confer­ence. “So I’m happy about that. Over the last few years, I’ve watched this town grow back into a hockey town. And, hope­fully, our goal as a team and as a staff comes true, that we can bring a (Stanley) Cup back to Boston.” 
The Bruins finished first in the Eastern Conference last season and won a playoff series for the first time in 10 years, sweeping the Montreal Canadiens in four games, before losing in the second round to the Carolina Hurricanes. 
Going into Wednesday night’s game against the Tampa Bay Lightning, Savard had four goals and six assists in 11 games. He missed 15 games with a broken foot before returning. Last season, he led the Bruins with 25 goals and 63 assists. 
Savard signed a four-year, $20 million contract as a free agent in the summer of 2006 after playing for the Atlanta Thrashers. He previously played for the New York Rangers and Calgary Flames. None of those cities has had the recent success among its pro sports franchises as the Boston area. 
“With all the incredible sports teams they have here and the fans’ knowledge about all the events, it’s incredible,” Savard said. “Since day one, I look back at the playoffs and to see what could be really excites me, too, especially when we play the Canadiens in the playoffs and the way fans react. It’s some­thing that we’d like to try to fin­ish here.” 
Savard came to Boston with the reputation as a playmaker but has become more than that with the Bruins. 
“His competitive nature has always been there, but I see it maturing, I see it growing and it’s really consistent and com­patible with the identity of the team,” Bruins general manager Peter Chiarelli said. “The face-offs and penalty killing, the shooting the puck more is another thing. I feel his game is rounding into a really solid, tremendous skill package with these other intangible things. And you’ve seen it year to year and it’s been impressive.” 
NFL 
Kicker Elam released by Falcons 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Jason Elam fig­ured he was down to his last miss. 
He was right. 
The Atlanta Falcons released the 17-year veteran on Tuesday, having finally run out of patience with a kicker who had been one of the NFL’s most accurate but struggled through a mystifying slump this season. 
Elam was just 8 of 15 on field goal attempts from at least 30 yards, a success rate the area where he grew up, and played a big role in Atlanta’s surprising run to the playoffs. He made 29 of 31 field goals and all 42 of his extra-point attempts. 
But something went wrong this season, and it was appar­ent right from the start. Elam struggled in the preseason, missed an extra point in the regular-season opener and botched crucial kicks in losses to Carolina and the New York Giants. 
“This is not my dream end­
ing, but I feel 
like it was a 
that was simply u n a c c e p t a b l e — especially for a team con­ “I’ve always been able to kick myself out of these things,  pretty good dream career,” he said. “I never anticipat­ 
tending in the NFC playoff race.  but it just wasn’t hapening for me.”  ed it lasting this long. I wish it was different  
“To be honest  circumstances  
with you, when  Jason Elam  that  I  was  
I walked off the  Former Falcons kicker  going out. But I  

field after the last three games, I thought that was it,” Elam told The Associated Press when reached on his cell phone. “I’ve always been able to kick myself out of these things, but it just wasn’t happening for me. It was a bad November.” 
It also was an unceremoni­ous ending for a 39-year-old kicker who is tied for the longest field goal in NFL histo­ry (63 yards), made more than 81 percent of his career attempts, and earned three Pro Bowl appearances during a 15-season tenure with the Denver Broncos, helping them win back-to-back Super Bowls in the 1990s. 
Elam signed with the Falcons last year, returning to gave them 
everything I’ve got. I can look myself in the mirror and feel good.” 
The Falcons (6-5) insisted that one miss didn’t cost Elam his job. But the final straw came Sunday, when he was wide left on a 43-yarder with 6 1/2 minutes left in the fourth quarter that might have led to another Atlanta loss. 
The Falcons rallied, throw­ing a fourth-down touchdown pass with 23 seconds remain­ing to pull out a 20-17 victory over the woeful Tampa Bay Buccaneers, but they couldn’t afford to cut it so close again, not with vital games coming up against Philadelphia and unbeaten New Orleans. 
“He hit some, but unfortu­nately he missed some oth­ers,” Falcons general manag­er Thomas Dimitroff told the AP. “We felt like we needed to make a move.” 
Atlanta signed Matt Bryant, who has kicked with four NFL teams, most recently spending four seasons with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He had been playing with Florida of the fledgling United Football League and was brought in for a tryout Tuesday, four days after his team lost in the inaugural UFL championship game. 
“Matt came in and kicked very well at our indoor facili­ty,” Dimitroff said. “He stroked it well, he had good pop and he showed some accuracy.” 
Bryant has the third-longest field goal in NFL history, a 62­yarder in 2006, and he’s also endured personal tragedy: his 3-month-old son Matthew Tryson, died unexpectedly in 2008. One day after the funer­al, Bryant returned to kicked three goals in Tampa Bay’s victory over the Green Bay Packers. 
“You know he’s strong-willed, given what he’s gone through in his background,” Dimitroff said. 
Elam wasn’t the only mem­ber of the field-goal unit to lose his job. Long snapper Bryan Pittman also was cut, replaced by Joe Zelenka. 
While Elam said he’ll take a few days to decide on whether he wants to pursue a job with another team, he sure sound­ed as though he’s ready to call it a career. 
“I just want to be remem­bered as a consistent kicker,” he said. 


Thursday, December 3, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
steals, but was 0-for-4 from the three-point line. 
McGraw 

“We weren’t there mentally,” continued from page 24 McGraw said. “We were lucky 
to win the game.” really able to score inside, but Tavelyn James led all scor-I thought we could have gone ers with 21 points on 8-of-21 inside [to them] a little bit shooting for the Eagles (5-2), more.” who fell to 0-10 all -time 
The two teams exchanged against ranked opponents. leads three different times in “I thought James played the first half extremely before the Irish’s well,” McGraw 11-0 run gave said. “We them a 35-27 “Overall, I thought we couldn’t catch 
halftime advan-just weren’t in a good her in transi­tage. tion. We didn’t 
place and it showed.” 
However, run the floor Eastern Michigan with her and didn’t flinch. The Muffet McGraw she was fan-Eagles began the Irish coach tastic.” second half on an The Eagles 11-1 run to take defense held the lead. the Irish to 
“This was a game where, 25 -of -62, or 40 percent, coming back from a three day shooting from the floor and tournament, you’re tired, just 4-of-15 shooting from thinking about the paper behind the arc. that’s due and not getting “I thought there zone enough rest,” defense gave McGraw said. us problems,” “Overall I thought “They slowed us McGraw said. we just weren’t in down a little bit and “They slowed a good place and us down a lit-
we didn’t quite get 
it showed.” tle bit and we 
the up-tempo points
The Irish finally didn’t quite retook the lead at we usually get.” get the up 45-42 when tempo points freshman guard we usually 
Muffet McGraw 
Skylar Diggins get.” 
Irish coach
converted a After the three-point play game, Irish 500th victory as coach of the been so blessed to be able stars every day when I come with 11:09 remaining and the athletic director Jack Irish. coach at the University of to the office.” team never looked back. Swarbrick presented McGraw “I look back at all the assis-Notre Dame,” McGraw said of Diggins finished with 15 with a game ball and a bou-tant coaches and all the play-the honor. “It’s such an amaz-Contact Alex Barker at points, six rebounds and three quet commemorating her ers that I’ve had, and I have ing place and I count my lucky abarker1@nd.edu 

Belles 
continued from page 24 
a 3-pointer from Sullivan and a series of layups by Murphy and senior forward Anna Kammrath but still trailed 42-29 at the break. 
Saint Mary’s came back on the court hoping to close the gap, but the shots weren’t falling for the Belles as they missed 3-pointers, layups and even free throws throughout the second period. 
The Polar Bears went on a scoring drive at the start of the half, stretching their lead to 18 with 10 minutes remaining. 
The Belles began shooting better, but weren’t able to find consistent success and Ohio Northern’s lead increased to 59-41. 
Each time the Belles made a scoring run, Ohio Northern would respond and pull away. 
The Polar Bears outshot the Belles 52 percent to 32 per­cent from the floor, and out-rebounded them 43-40. 
Each team had 26 turnovers, with the Belles scoring 23 points off of them and the Polar Bears 22. 
Kammrath led Saint Mary’s in points with 13, and was tied for second in steals with three. 
Junior guard Liz Wade had eight assists and three steals in the game. 
Sophomore guard Patsy Mahoney chipped in 10 points and five rebounds, sopho­more Kelley Murphy had eight points with seven rebounds and sophomore guard Maggie Ronan put in 10 points and seven rebounds. 
Up next for the Belles is the start of MIAA competition as they host conference foe Trine Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Pitt ready for high-powered Bearcats 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH — Cincinnati’s undefeated Bearcats generate offense like they’re playing a video game, scoring 41 or more points three times in their last five games. Their starting quar­terback goes down, and the backup plays even better than the regular did. 
No. 14 Pittsburgh couldn’t help but being impressed while watching No. 5 Cincinnati pile up 711 yards behind backup quarterback Zach Collaros dur­ing a 47-45 victory over Connecticut, a team the Panthers trailed by 15 points before rallying to beat. 
“They’re throwing the ball all over the place,” Pitt defensive lineman Gus Mustakas said. 
Throw it all over Heinz Field on Saturday, and the No. 5 Bearcats (11-0, 6-0 in Big East) will be trying to unleash their dare-you-to-stop-us offense in a BCS bowl. 
Regardless, Pitt (9-2, 5-1) hasn’t spent the week trying to rig up some gimmick defense to slow quarterback Tony Pike or wide receiver Mardy Gilyard, the players most responsible for Cincinnati’s 28-21 win over the Panthers last season. Pike has thrown eight TD passes in his last two games, six against Illinois on Friday, but Pitt knows there is only one way to effectively control him. 
Don’t let him get the ball very often. 
While the Bearcats don’t give up yards and points as quickly as they produce them, they yield a lot — 1,338 yards and 102 points in their last three games. If the Panthers avoid turnovers, get a big day from freshman running back Dion Lewis (1,446 yards) and Bill Stull (19 TD passes, 6 intercep­tions) spreads the ball among his receivers, their best defense against Cincinnati might be a good offense. 

“Every time we go on the field, we think we can score on every possession,” coach Dave Wannstedt said. “That’s the way it’s drawn up. That’s how we practice. That’s what our kids believe.” 
The Panthers played their poorest game of the season offensively while losing to rival West Virginia 19-16 on Friday, dropping them from No. 8 to No. 14 in the AP poll and mak­ing Saturday’s de facto Big East championship game less attrac­tive nationally. Two Top 10 teams in a season-ending game would have been a showcase for the conference. 
To avoid a second successive loss that would likely send a team that was in the Top 10 two weeks ago to a lower-tier bowl — a major disappoint­ment given their 9-1 start — the Panthers know they must get their offense back in a hurry. They trail only Cincinnati in total offense in the conference. 
“If it comes to a shootout, we think we can hang with any­body,” tight end Nate Byham said. 
Cincinnati, which is trying to complete the first 12-0 regular season in school history, leads the Big East in scoring (39.4), total offense (472.7 yards per game) and passing offense (322 yards). The Bearcats have allowed only nine sacks while scoring fewer than 28 points only once — a 24-21 victory over West Virginia. 
“We definitely can match them because we’re not going to let them come in here and do what they want to do,” Pitt tight end Dorin Dickerson said. “We’re going to run our offense and run our defense and play our game. We’re going to be the better team at the end of the day. That’s what we’re striving for, and that’s what we have to do this week.” 
Wannstedt wasn’t happy with his team’s preparation for West Virginia, although he didn’t blame it on any premature thoughts about playing Cincinnati. 
If Pitt needs any further incentive beyond the obvious, here’s something to ponder: Nine wins for Pitt, rather than their first 10-win regular sea­son since 1981, could mean the Papajohns.com Bowl in Birmingham, Ala., or the International Bowl in Toronto rather than, possibly, the Sugar Bowl. 
“Coach Wannstedt hit on it,” linebacker Adam Gunn said. “Last year we were happy with nine wins, and we were excited to play in the Sun Bowl (a 3-0 loss to Oregon State). This year, we have nine wins, but we’re not happy at all.” 

page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, December 3, 2009 
Tourney 
continued from page 24 
Dealy and junior middle block­er Kellie Sciacca have both started 26 of the 27 matches this season and have played 93 and 91 total sets, respec­tively. The only match they did not start was the senior game against South Florida. 
Dealy is currently second on the team with 3.30 kills per set and 93 total points. She is really fun atmosphere.” 
The Irish (21-6) will take on Ohio (26 -6) Friday in Ann Arbor, Mich., and the winner of that game will play the 
w i n ne r  o f  N o .  1 3 -s e e d  
M i c h i g a n  a n d  N i a g a r a  
Saturday.  
T h e  r e s t  o f  th e  b r a c k e t  

includes No. 4-seed Stanford, Long Island, St. Mary’s (Calif.) and California-Santa Barbara. 
Notre Dame has lost its past two games, only its second losing streak all season. Before that, they had won 14 
also tied for first in service aces with 23. Sciacca is sec­ond on the team with 90 total blocks. 
Sophomore libero Frenchy Silva and junior outside hitter St eph anie 

“I feel like if everybody connects like how we should connect ... we should be really successful.” 
Kristin Dealy Irish outside hitter 
straight. 
“I feel like with the last two loss­es, [the tourna­ment] is a way to start fresh,” Dealy said. 
She said that although the sen­iors have been to the NCAAs before, they do not talk about it 
Slatt have also seen significant playing time this season. Silva leads the team on defense with 3.42 digs per set and 308 total digs. Slatt, who special­izes mostly in service, has 12 aces on the season. 
Dealy said preparation this week has been different than it has been for regular season games. 
“We talked about it on Tuesday and just made sure we’re all really focused. It’s a with the underclassmen. 

“We try not to talk too much about the past,” Dealy said. “But they’re just really excit­ed and their energy feeds down to everybody.” 
Dealy said that although the underclassmen are excited about their first tournament, the Irish will need to play the same way they have all sea­son. 
“It should be a challenge,” she said, “but I feel like if everybody connects like we should connect, like how we have been the whole season, we should be really success­ful.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Bowl 
continued from page 24 
they would vote on the issue Monday, and director of athletics Jack Swarbrick said the decision would be made later this week. 
The team’s 6-6 records limits their bowl possibili­ties, essentially, to four: the Little Caesar’s Pizza Bowl in Detroit on Dec. 26, the EagleBank Bowl in Washington, D.C. on Dec. 29, the Humanitarian Bowl on the blue field in Boise, Idaho, on Dec. 30 or the GMAC Bowl in Mobile, Ala. on Jan. 6. All four have unfulfilled conference obli­gations. 
ESPN.com predicts the Irish to visit Mobile and so does cbs.sportsline.com 
Should the Irish go? Here are some effects to consid­er. 
Pros: 
 More money for the school. Always a good thing, even for a school with a huge endowment and television contract. 
 More practice for the players, no matter who’s coaching them. If a new coach is in place, they can learn his system and adapt to his play calls, signals and terminology. It also will give him a feel for what he has to work with going into spring ball. 
 One more chance to see Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate play for the Irish. Odds are at least one of them goes to the NFL, and it would give them a plat­form to go out on top. It would also allow the sen­iors to leave without the bitter taste of four straight losses in their mouths. 
 A chance for some records. Sam Young could extend his consecutive starts streak and Tate could make a run at Jerome Bettis’ total touch­down record of 20 in a sea­son set in 1991 (Tate cur­rently has 18). 
 A platform to impress recruits who may be waver­ing after Charlie Weis was fired. If they saw the team play as a unit they may decide to stick with the Irish. It may also lure some new recruits to the school. 
 A chance to get away. Clausen said after Stanford that going to a bowl is “like a vacation,” and the Irish have been under a lot of stress this week. None of the above destinations are 
Luke Harangody. “I’m just trying to concen-
Scott 
trate on defense and rebound-continued from page 24 ing, and letting the offense 
come to me, not trying to team that has struggled to force too many things on find consistent rebounding offense,” Scott said. “My con-outside of senior forward fidence is building a lot. Just exactly vacation getaways like Hawaii last year, but they’re a change of scenery. 
Cons: 
 Notre Dame might get rocked. After Tyrone Willingham was fired in 2004, defensive coordinator Kent Baer took over as interim head coach for Notre Dame’s 38-21 Insight Bowl loss to Oregon State. The team has had trouble with teams it should beat and may want to avoid an embarrassing end to the season. 
 The team may not have a coach, and even if it does he may not be here before Notre Dame’s bowl game due to his own coaching obligations. None of the offensive coaches have any experience calling plays. 
 The locations and times of the bowls. Playing the day after Christmas isn’t ideal, and none of the loca­tions with the exception of Washington are major upgrades from South Bend. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu. 
everyday, taking a little bit every time, and we all feed off each other, and the guys are trusting me, so we’re just get­ting better every day.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


Thursday, December 3, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, December 3, 2009 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish edge Eagles 
Irish use big runs in 69-59 victory at home 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
For much of the night, Notre Dame looked sluggish, distracted and out of sync. But in the end, the Irish were sharp enough when it count­ed most. 
An 8-0 run capped by junior forward Becca Bruszewski’s layup with 2:30 left all but sealed the game for the Irish as they went on to defeat Eastern Michigan 69 -59 Wednesday night at Purcell Pavilion. 
Bruszewski finished with 14 points and six rebounds while senior guard Lindsay Schrader added 15 points and seven boards for the No. 5 Irish (7-0). 

“I thought Lindsey and Becca did a nice job offen­sively,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “They were EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer 
Senior guard Melissa Lechlitner fghts for position against two Eastern Michigan defenders in see MCGRAW/page 21 Wednesday’s 69-59 victory over the Eagles. Lechlitner had eight points and four assists in the game. 

FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 
Bowl bid has pros and cons 
Depending on who you lis­ten to, the coaching search is all but over. One story has you believing Bob Stoops is buying houses in Elkhart, while another makes you think Brian Kelly is in the Gug right now measuring Bill Brink his office 

for furni-
Managing
ture. 
Editor
These reports can fog over the issue of whether or not Notre Dame, who fin­ished the season 6-6, will choose to go to a bowl game if invited. The players said 
see BOWL/page 22 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Scott emerges as low-post threat off bench for Irish 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer  and I think that’s been a process he’s learned in the last four games. We continue to  has increased. “I just did my role.” Scott said. “Coach said I needed to  sive game as well. “I just wanted him to think about helping us out there and  think now it’s been four straight games where he has said, ‘ok, I get my role, I can be  
need him to embrace that role.  defend and rebound more, and  just fitting in on offense.” Brey  efficient.’”  
After a slow start to the sea­ It’s very important for us.”  that’s what I did. He said if I  said. “I think the first three or  Scott’s best game of the sea­ 
son, junior Carlton Scott has  Scott’s  minutes  have  did that, it’s hard to take me  four games he  was  worried  son  so  far  has  been  Notre  
come on  strong for the Irish,  increased over the four-game  off the floor.  about ‘when will I get a shot?’  Dame’s  80-62  win  over  
playing four solid games in a  stretch, in which he recorded  Scott struggled early in the  And  we  witnessed  some  very  Kennesaw State  on  Nov. 24.  
row and adding much needed  more than 20 minutes in three  season, particularly with his  bad shots by him, shots where  Scott scored seven and totaled  
depth to the Irish roster.  of those games and played  a  shot selection,  so  Brey  was  you go ‘what is he thinking?’ I  12 rebounds in 22 minutes of  
“I think [Scott] is a guy that  more  significant role for the  hesitant to give him early play- took him out after one, and  playing time. He is currently  
can ignite some stuff with the  Irish on the court. He provides  ing  time.  By  focusing  on  that  was  kind of the  cross-averaging 4.6 rebounds per  
plays he can make physically,”  a  boost  on  defense  and  in  defense and rebounds, Scott  roads. To his credit, he’s  a  game, which is second  on  a  
Irish coach Mike Brey said. “It  rebounding, which is the rea­ has been able to play more,  sharp kid. He played key min- 
has just kind of come to him,  son he thinks his playing time  which has improved his offen­ utes for  us  in Chicago, and I  see SCOTT/page 22  

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Team returns to NCAA stage 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish take the floor against Ohio University Friday, they will be playing in their first NCAA tournament since 2006. 
The six seniors on the 2009 squad were freshmen then, when the Irish lost in the first round to Wisconsin. The underclassman on this year’s team, however, are headed to the tournament for the first time. 
“We’re all just excited to show how good we can be,” sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy said. 
Underclassmen have made a big impact on this year’s team. 
see TOURNEY/page 22 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles shooters go cold in loss to Polar Bears 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s fought its way through a tough game against Ohio Wednesday until before falling 82-60, dropping their record to 3-2. 
The Belles were down 82­56 until the last 10 seconds of the game when freshman guard Annie Doyle sunk back-to-back shots off of a steal by Jessica Centa and a takeaway of her own with two seconds left on the clock. 
Saint Mary’s started the game off strong with a layup from sophomore guard Katie Sullivan, but quickly fell behind as the Belles’ scoring troubles began. After a string of missed shots, fouls and turnovers by the Belles, the Polar Bears pulled ahead 16-13 with 10 min­utes left in the first half. 
The end of the first period was marked with Saint Mary’s consistently missing its shots and Ohio Northern getting the defensive rebound. Sophomore for­ward Kelley Murphy did manage to attempt four shots from the line, missing two, at the end of the peri­od. 
The Belles also scored on two free throws from Centa, 
see BELLES/page 21 





