
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND tickets debate p~ 
Schmidt-Weber and Burdick-Sanchez prepare for Thursday's run-off election 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 

The Grant Schmidt-Cynthia Weber ticket emphasized its experience and platform research while the Laura Burdick-Derek Sanchez ticket accused their opponents of recycling"ideas from old cam­paigns in the run-off debate for student bony president and vice president Wednesday night in LaFortune. 
Schmidt, a junior, and Weber, a sophomore, along with juniors Burdick and Sanchez, advanced to com­pete in the run-off election after neither ticket won 50 

percent of the vote in the general election Monday. 
The debate, moderated by George Chamberlain, presi­dent of the Judicial Council, featured questions from the Council and the audience wit~ a chance for the candi­dates to give a rebuttaJ. 
Schmidt and Weber said they present a comprehen­sive and well-researched platform with feasible ideas. 
"I think a lot of people have questioned our taxi reform," Schmidt said. "But these are things I have been looking at for a really long time. We need to accomplish these big initiatives." 
see DEBATE/page 6 

Knights raise money for several charities 

Organization collects $48,325 from selling steak sandwichs at home football games 
said the 2008 profit was good considering there was one fewer home game than recent years, and that the weather was rainy the day of the Michigan game. 
On a football weekend with good weather, they sell about 3,000 steaks, said Redden, a junior at Notre Dame. 
"People buy them faster than we can make them, so there:s always more of a demand than we can get them cooked," he said. "So one of the challenges is to get started early enough that you can make enough of a 
see KNIGHTS/page 4 


By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
There's a lot of money in steak sandwiches, at least when you sell them prior to Notre Dame home football games. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus made a profit of $48,325 dur­ing the 2008 football season. The Knights, a fraternal serv­ice organization, are current­ly in the process of distribut­ing these funds to several charities, as they do every year. 
Grand Knight Jim Redden 

Exhibit features poet's works 
Ingeborg Bachmann's life and literary achievements on display at library 
By LIZ LEFEBVRE 
News Writer 
The prominent exhibit "Writing Against War" fea­turing the life and works of renown Austrian-born poet Ingeborg Bachmann will open on the second floor of the llesburgh Library Thursday at 5 p.m. 
The multi-media display focuses specifically on the theme of war throughout Bachmann's life and literary achievements. 
The ceremony will feature a presentation and reading by poet and Bachmann translator Peter Filkins of Bard College. A reception will follow the event. 
The exhibit will be on dis­play at Notre Dame through March 8. This is the first stop on the exhibit's United States tour, though it has been traveling throughout Europe since 2003. The Austrian Federal Ministry for Foreign Affairs provided the exhibit and it has already appeared at 57 dif­ferent locations and been translated into seven lan­guages. 
Bachmann, a famous writer of poems, radio plays, short stories, novels and literary theory essays, became one of the leading voices in post-war German literature. Her works repre­sent a large body of anti­war writing, as she used language to challenge the chronic state of war in the world. Each year a presti­gious award is given out in her name and memory to an outstanding work of Germanophone literature. 

German professor and Nanovic Institute fellow, Anita McChesney was responsible for bringing the exhibit to Notre Dame. 
"Ingeborg Bachmann's works present singular vision of literary protests against wars that touched her life, and they reflect both a criticism of war's atrocities as well as the continued hope for peace," McChesney said. "This 
see HESBURGH/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Caiilpuses, conununity seek better relationship 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

Improving relationships between Notre Dame students and South Bend residents and concerns with otT-campus hous­ing were two issues discussed Wednesday at the Community Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) meeting, held at the County-City Building in South Bend. 
Student and faculty represen­tatives from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross met with South Bend Police Department (SBPD) officers and leaders from the community for the third time this year to talk about communi­ty and student related issues. 
Council chairman Al Kirsits said one issue of concern between community members and students are parties and alcohol-related matters. But overall, the number of parties and incidents involving drinking has been down this year, he said. 
Kirsits said the best way to handle alcohol-related issues is continued education. 
The coalition would like to set up a booth on alcohol awareness at a spring event on campus and look into educating students by having them drive golf carts while wearing D.U.I goggles. The goggles distort the wearer's vision as if they were intoxicat­
see CCAC/page 6 
STUDENT SENATE 



Web site discussed. ininformal meeting 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
·Student Senate held an informal meeting Wednesday to discuss the creation of a Web site with information about South Bend geared towards students. 
The meeting was informal because the group lacked enough members for quorum and could not call the meeting to order. 
Community Relations com­mittee chair Gus Gari said the off-campus Web site will be broken up into tabs routing students to different cate­gories, such as entertainment, off-campus livisg, safety and security and more. 
"The bottom line is this is useful to the entire student body," he said. 
For example, Gari said the site will have information about different off-campus housing options and how to sign a lease for students who are contemplating moving. The housing options tab would give students all the informa­
see SENATE/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Diamonds  
onFeb.l4  
The temperature has been above freezing for almost a week now. On Tuesday, I saw the sun. I've been wearing flip-flops since Saturday. Yesterday, it started raining.  . ·  

Indeed, signs of South Bend spring are everywhere. And with Feb. 14 drawing near, I've got diamonds on the brain. · 
No, I'm not talking about getting engaged. Seeing as how I'm a sopho­more and single, it would be a pretty big shock if some­
Laura Myers 
one were to take me down to the grotto and pop Sportsthe question. If it 
Production
did happen, I'm 
Editor 
pretty sure I would decline. (Exception: Michael Floyd.) 
l'mJalking about a different type of diamond. A kind that is less expen­sive to enjoy-not counting in New York-and a much better best friend than a jewel is. 
That's right. Cubs fans. start your engines (hear that distinctive whine?). because it's baseball season again. 
On Saturday -known to some as Valentine's Day, to others as Singles Awareness Day, still to others as Jon McLaughlin Day -pitchers and catchers will begin reporting to their spring training camps all along the warm parts of the country. 
Actually, the pitchers and catchers of one team will start reporting on Friday the 13th. Interesting that the Yankees think of themselves as above bad luck. 
Baseball season is my favorite part of the year. I'm a happier person when I have sports to ease my stress, and basketball just doesn't cut it. Granted, sometimes it adds to my stress, but that's what you get for being a Notre Dame student from Cleveland. 
The new season is al!eady brim­ming with storylines, including yet another steroid scandal, C.C. Sabathia in those oh-so-slimming pinstripes, and my personal favorite, Manny-Being-Unemployed. 
In my mind, though, the new sea­son is still a blank slate. 
Anything can happen over the course of five months and 162 base­ball games. Every year, experts make predictions, and every year, they're proved completely wrong. 
Remember the beginning of 2008's season, when the Tigers were sup­posed to score 1000 runs and easily win the World Series? Remember the end of the 2008 season, when the Tigers finished last, behind the Kansas City Royals? 
I feel the urge to make fun of the Yankees and Cubs more, but it's not fair because I've already targeted them. Plus, it's just too easy. 
The point is that, lame as it sounds, every team is undefeated right now. 
There's a point in every season where the general attitude among Indians fans switches from "It's Tribe Time Now!" to "There's always next year... " 
Well, guess what. It's 2009. It's Tribe Time Now. And there's always this year. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmeyers2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 12, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE NICEST THING YOU HAVE DONE TODAY? 







Gus Gari Seung-Joe Oh Elizabeth Flood Jonas Gray Matt Ong 
Junior Freshman Freshman Freshman Freshman 
Keenan St. Edward's Lewis Keenan Keenan 
"''m not a nice "I let myselfget "I "I did the '1generoDy dont 
,, , 
person. some sleep. complimented a Heimlich believein kinc/nex; 
girl on her ugly maneuver on a but today Iwas sweater. Does guy choking on everyonessunshine that like count a Pop-Tart. " siJu:e the skies were 
as community service or something?" 

PAT COVENEYfThe Observer 
Peter Campbell, a graduate assistant in the College of Arts and Letters, takes notes during a presentation by David Cortright and George A. Lopez entitled "The Impact of Counterterrorism on Civil Society" in O'Shaughnessy Hall on Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Man arrested for letting 8-year-old child drive 
BRADENTON, Fla. ­Police arrested a 34-year­old man they said let his 8­year-old son drive a van just before midnight Sunday. A Bradenton police report said the boy hit a two trees and nearly. hit two pedestrians in a park­ing lot when his father let him drive. 
The father told police that he had taken Xanax, used to treat. anxiety and panic attacks, and was "feeling woozy and didn't want to drive." He said he that he thought letting his son drive would be a "bonding moment." 

The boy told police his father took "liquid medi­cine in order to feel better," pointing to an empty whiskey bottle in the vehi­cle. 
The man faces charges of child abuse and permitting an unlicensed driver to drive. He remained in jail Wednesday on a $10,120 bond. 
~obber runs out of gas after robbing gas station 
CAPE HAZE, Fla. ­Authorities said they arrested a man who appar­ently forgot to fill up when he was robbing a gas sta­tion. The Charlotte County Sheriff's Office said a 23­year-old man used a Bowie knife to rob a Cape Haze gas station early Sunday. Deputies said the man pulled the 12-inch blade and demanded money. But when he left, a customer . followed him and called 911. 
While deputies were looking for signs of the rob­ber, a newspaper carrier told them that a man in a car matching the one from the robbery had run out of gas nearby. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

....I c( 
(.) 
grey Iaim adopted an r.xplumedturtle andnamedit Rodeo." 
IN BRIEF 
Valentine's Day Candy Heart­grams will be sold in LaFortune today. The hearts cost $1 per package and will be delivered on Friday. 
Fair Trade Coffeehouse in the CoMo Lounge, today from 8 p.m.-10 p.m. Learn about the Fair Trade movement and enjoy coffee, baked goods. and live entertainment from popular campus acts. Sponsored by the Department of Sociology. Proceeds help fund SOC 23534's cross-cultural trip to Guatemala. 
The Glass Club is having a sale of some of their products ­etched glassware, jewelry, stained glass and fused glass. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. It will take place. today from 5 
p.m. to 7 p.m. 
The Freshman Class Council is hosting Lovefest on Friday at 9 p.m. The event will take place in Casey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library and will include free candy from the South Bend Chocolate Factory and musical performers from the Freshman class. Tickets are $5 and will benefit the American Heart Association. 
The annual Edith Stein Project will take place through­out the day this Friday. The conference will address women's issues which will include speakers, a Mass, meals. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are invited free of charge, but must register at https://marketplace.nd.edu/cc e/index.cfm. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

0 

HIGH 37 HIGH HIGH 32 HIGH 30 HIGH 27 HIGH
...I 30 LOW 27 LOW LOW 25 LOW 18 LOW 18 LOW 
20 

Atlanta 65 143 Boston 51 141 Chicago 42 I 31 Denver 43 I 19 Houston 69 I 53 Los Angeles 60 I 48 Minneapolis 37 I 26 New York 49 142 Philadelphia 49 I 44 Phoenix 64 I 43 Seattle 45 I 34 St. Louis 55 I 37 Tampa 77 I 63 Washington 58 I 46 


Thursday, February 12, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Italy's politicalland~cape discussed 
Ambassador Guido Lenzi addresses country's history and origins 
By BECKY HOGAN News Wrirer 
In the Gallery of Bond Hall, adorned by Roman casts and sculptures, Italian ambassa­dor Guido Lenzi described Italy's complicated character to a packed room on Wednesday. 
"Italy is a country of con­tradictions. It's a land of improvisation -things are made up at the spur of the moment, and inventiveness is part of the life of everybody," Lenzi said. 
Lenzi described Italy as a "grown-up teenager" because it is "full of life, inventive and smiling but totally irresponsi­ble." 
He explained the nation's history and origins. 
"Italy is a very young coun­try ... younger than the United States. It is a young country that has had a hard time holding itself together." 
According to Lenzi, Italy's fragmented nature can be attributed to the city-states, which preceded Italy's unifi­cation. 
"The city-states account for the fact that local allegiances are much stronger nowadays. People are first Florentine and Tuscan, and only eventu­ally Italian," Lenzi said. "They are very provincial and local-minded ... which is the strength of Italy, but also means that it is not a coher­ent whole." 
He said that bureaucracy does not play a fundamental role in Italian politics because people have learned 
ND drill team to perform in NYC
to live without the state. 
"Bureaucracy does not work as smoothly as it should because Italian cities have not asked for the state to work properly. Italians know how to make do and obtain 
Communist Party dominated Italy after World War II, and were followed. by the Christian Democrats. 
"Italy had a revolving door . government ... there was a new government every year," 
what they want without the Lenzi said. 
state," he said. "Italians sub­sist and pros­per in spite of the state. We have lea:med to exist without needing the state." 
Additionally, Lenzi said Italy's disor­ganization and incoherency must change in the future. 
"Now Italy, after having survived and prospered in 
,

"Italy is a country of contradictions. It's a land of improvisation­things are made up at the spur ofthe moment, and inventiveness is part ofthe life of everybody. " 
Guido Lenzi Italian ambassador 

this very special, different way, now needs to organize itself and make itself recog­nizable." 
Italy needs to make itself more accessible to the inter­national community, he said. 
"Now we need Italy for the Europeans, for the European Union, for the Mediterranean, for the Balkan states. All of this has to be made coherent," Lenzi said. 
The Italian parliamentary democracy includes a strong parliament and a weak presi­dency, which has allowed for the spread of democracy and has ensured tl).at the country remains united, he said. 
He also discussed how the 
However, he argued that Italy's current prime minster, Silvio Berlusconi, is not to blame for Italy's polit­ical struggles. 
"[Berlusconi] is not the cause .of the Italian woes, Berlusconi is the conse­quence of such a state of affairs. He did not want to have an organ­
ized party. He was fed up with party system .... Everybody in Italy was involved in that system, you can't point the finger [at Berlusconi]," he said. 
Lenzi concluded that because Italy is a multilater­al-minded country without a strong national interest, it has an important role in international relations. 
"Italy is a front-line state. We have to be considered as a country that matters in pre­senting a united stance," he said. "Italy is a party-goer ... it is the most multilateral­minded country in Europe." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
By CASEY KENNY· 
News Writer 
The Irish Marauders, a color guard and exhibition drill team of the Notre Dame Army ROTC, recently received an invitation to perform at the St. Patrick's Day parade in New York City, Officer-in-Charge, Justin Figueredo said. 
"We are really excited to be invited to march in this parade and provide the colors in a nationally televised event -not many teams are invited, so it is a huge honor to be recognized and invited to participate and represent Notre Dame," Figueredo, a senior, said. 
The team provides color guard for sporting leagues and charities off campus, and rep­resents Notre Dame:s Army ROTC at various events and functions throughout the nation. 
"Not many people know about the other component of the Irish Marauders ... the drill team," Figueredo said. 
The drill team is made up of about 17 Army ROTC students in all classes and has practice every week, he said. The Marauders are a voluntary group f!tr personal develop­ment, he said. 
"Since it is intended to be for enjoyment and the development of personal discipline, there are no tryouts for the team or cuts from the team," Figueredo said. 
He adds that their mission is "to develop leadership, confi­dence and teamwork while learning the art of Army cere­monies and rifle and exhibition drill techniques, including spins, throws and other maneu­vers." 
The team's performances involve silent drill, which requires that all rifle move­ments be executed at precise moments. 
"Our performances are a real show of discipline," adds Figueredo. "We move and spin our rifles with no beat or count­ing, but rather create our own beat which requires that all members be mentally sound and in complete sync with one another in order for it to work." 
Though they are challenging, the performances are also meant to be fun and exciting for team members and viewers alike, he said. 
The drill team's performances are "a lot of fun to watch and really demonstrate the values of the Army ROTC program. They are especially enjoyable for the team members." 
The Marauders drill team has been looking forward to its per­formance at the Irish women's basketball game Wednesday night, he said. 
"It is the team's first perform­ance outside the battalion and a great opportunity to show the public our drill team," says Figueredo. "Public performance is such a rewarding part of our practice and the team really enjoys putting on these exhibi­tions." 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 
Professor looks for tre-nd in college age plagiarism 
Special to The Observer  context of China cross-culturally.  but  also  administrators and students. I neither excuse nor blame stu­ communicate with them." Blum, who served for five  Language: Readings in Culture and Communication," and  
Susan D.  Blum, associate  In "My Word!" she examines  dents  for  the  years  as direc­ "Portraits  of  'Primitives':  
professor of anthropology at  in greater depth the specific  behavior  we  tor  of  Notre  Ordering Human Kinds in the  
the University of Notre Dame, is the author of a new book  area of plagiarism, in which those same accusations are  lump together. as 'plagiarism.'  "My goal simply is  Dame's Center for Asian  Chinese Nation." She is co-editor of "China Off  
titled "My Word!  Plagiarism  made.  Rather  than  understanding,"  Studies, is also  Center: Mapping the Margins  
and College Culture," which  "My goal simply is under­ complaining  the" author  of  of the Middle Kingdom."  
explores the prevalence of pla­giarism among American col­ standing," Blum said. "The book examines the complexity  about how 'lazy' or 'distracted'  Susan D. Blum  "Lies that Bind: Chinese Truth,  A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2000, Blum  
lege  students  and  why  it  of student behavior using stan­ they  are,  I  associate professor  Other Truths,"  was graduated from Stanford  
exists.  dard anthropological tools for  decided  to  of anthropology  which explores  University.  She earned mas-·  
Blum is  a  cultural and lin­ holistic approach to  a  prob:  investigate  all  the ideology of  ter's degrees in anthropology  
guistic anthropologist who has  lem.  I see my role as a trans­ the  claims  on  truth  and  and Chinese ·language and lit­ 
been researching deception,  lator of students' culture to  their time, and I  deception  in  erature  and  her  doctoral  
truth, lying and cheating for  non-students through analysis  offer suggestions to help facul­ China and elsewhere,  as  well  degree in anthropology from  
several years, mostly in the  of the perspectives of faculty,  ty and administrators better  as  "Making  Sense  of  the University of Michigan.  





SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION SUPPORTING FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
New this year: Graduate support now available in Arts & Letters 
For details and application fonns, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/-....sumlang/ 
Or pick up applications from the Office of International Studies: 154 Hurley Building .. Ph 1·5203 
Application DEADLINE: FRIDAY MARCH 6, 2009 
Sponsored by the Ortice of International Studies, the College of Arts and Letters, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies the Mendoza Cellege of Business 

page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 12, 2009 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
tion they need, he said. 
Because this student gov­ernment administration 
"I think people get con­fused because it's called the off-ca.mpus Web site," he said. 
Continuing the discussion of off-campus living, Reish said he has been approached several times about the 
has focused on University's
"There will be 
off-campus lack of a list of 

safety, the site resources about being off-campus 
will also have a good neighbor and student a lot of infor­addresses. The

communicating better 
mation about University only 

with the community." 
safety and requires one ' good commu­address from nity relations, Gus Gari students, and Gari said. many students
community relations
"There will give their

committee chair
be resources home address, about being a he said. good neighbor Reish asked and communicating better the senators if they believe with the community," he the University should require said. the address of off-campus 
Gari said he presented this students. information to the Council of "I think that's private infor­Representatives (COR) mation," Duncan Hall sena­Tuesday and received feed­tor Ben Linskey said. back. However, Reish said with­
"COR mentioned having a out the information, neither 'Your Rights' tab on the site," the University nor student he said. "We were also told government can stop stu­to be stressing stuff from the dents from unknowingly Eddy Street breaking zon­
Commons project."  "/ know ofstudents  ing laws, and they cannot  
The Rights' would what  'Your tab detail is  who have gotten kicked out of their houses because they  give informa­tion about basic off-cam­pus living  
expected  of  were zoned  trends.  
students when they move off  incorrectly. "  "I know of students who  
campus,  he  have  gotten  
said.  Bob Reish  kicked-out of  
COR mem­bers also sug­ student body president  their houses because they  
gested track- were  zoned  

ing the parts of the site that incorrectly," he said. "Right receive the most hits and now we don't have that infor­then making those tabs more mation so if a student rents a accessible to students, Gari house, they could potentially said. get a house zoned for a sin­
Student body president Bob gle family." Reish said the site is for on­campus students as well as Contact Madeline Buckley at students living off campus. mbuckley@nd.edu 



ACE UNDERGRADUATE INTERNSHIPS 
Get your al1plication at http://ace.-intern.googlepages.co1n/ho1ne 
Monday, March 23 Application deadline 
Monday, April 20 Decision notification 
Monday, April27 Commit.r~nt deadline 
it has become a "staple" of here for 10 years and always Notre Dame football games. In get a steak sandwich and they the morning and afternoon love it," Redden said. 





Knights 
before kick-offs in the fall, Since 2003, the Knights have continued from page 1 lines of people stretch down given $287,844.49 to charity 
sidewalks next to the Knights from steak sales. The steak reserve in order to feed the of Columbus building on South sandwiches have been so popu­lunchtime crowd. One of the Quad to wait for the Knights' lar that this year, the Knights big selling points that we signature sand-are bringing advertise is that 100 percent of wich. steak sandwich­the profits go to charity." "We have liter­es to spring
"What would a guy
The four largest charities ally been doing semester. that receive money from the this since the rather have? A steak In honor of Notre Dame council are early 1980s," sandwich or a piece Valentine's Day, Corvilla, Inc., a South Bend Redden said. the Knights are

of candy?"
organization that provides "We have pic­selling "steak homes for mentally and physi­tures and grams," steak cally handicapped adults; records that go Jim Redden sandwiches that Gibault, a school founded by back of a group Grand Knight can be pur­the Indiana Knights of of kids who chased in Columbus for troubled teens; basically just advance at Andean Health and thought it would tables in the Development, a healthcare be a good idea to raise money dining halls and LaFortune. society founded in Ecuador by for the Corvilla House." They will be delivered Sunday 1984 Notre Dame graduate Dr. Over the course of a season, from 1-3 p.m. David Gaus and University about 100 members of the "What would a guy rather President Emeritus Fr. Knights work the concession have?" Redden asked. "A steak Theodore M. Hesburgh; and stand. They set up at 7:30a.m. sandwich or a piece of candy?" the James Karaffa BusinP.ss Saturday mornings, light the Redden said they will donate Academy for Women in grills by 8 a.m. and have the money from these sales to Nairobi, Kenya, a mini-busi­first steaks ready for sale by 9 charity if they make a profit. ness school that teaches a.m. The Knights of Columbus are women to make a living for For $6, a person in line can 200 members-strong at Notre themselves and their family. get a sandwich and a drink. Dame, according to the listserv, Smaller amounts of money are "You get lots of people that Redden said. The requirements distributed to other charities, say this is their first time and to join the society are that the Redden said, but those are the they've heard about the steak person must be male, Catholic top four. sandwiches, and they heard and at least 18 years old. 
Redden is not sure who first they have to get the steak came up with the idea to sell sandwich, and then you'll get Contact Kaiclynn Riely at steak sandwiches, but he said people who have been coming kriely@nd.edu 
renowned poets to students and "I hope that as the students faculty who are not as familiar read Bachmann's poetry, are



Hesburgh 
with her and the significance of moved by the beauty of the lan­continued from page 1 her works. guage, the pain reflected in the 
"I wanted to give students the words, but also the light of hope exhibit offers a great opportuni­chance to experience an that continually drove her to ty to inspire us to seek to Austrian writer through her write, they will reflect on these change how we respond to works and through images of core missions," said McChesney. injustice. Given the current rel­her life and the European con­As Bachmann herself focused evance of war and the atrocities text in which she wrote." on needing simple peace as a of war in our 21st century soci­One of the overall goals of dis­foundation for far-reaching cul­ety, I wanted to bring a poetic playing the exhibit at Notre tural projects, McChesney voice into the discussion." Dame is to strengthen the com­hopes that this exhibit can 
McChesney also hopes that mitment of students who have the exhibit will provide expo­resolved to make a difference in Contact Liz Lefebvre at sure one of Austria's most the world. elefebvr@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 12, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVER~s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Election brings no peace to Israel 
JERUSALEM -Inconclusive election results sent Israel into political limbo Wednesday with both Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and hard-line leader Benjamin Netanyahu claiming victory and leaving the kingmaker role to a rising political hawk with an anti-Arab platform. 
Livni's Kadima Party won 28 seats, just one more than Netanyahu's Likud, in Tuesday's election for the 120-member parliament, according to nearly complete results. With neither party winning a clear majority, nei­ther can govern alone. Gains by right-wing parties give Netanyahu a better chance of forming a coalition with his natural allies. 
The results set the stage for what could be weeks of coalition negotiations. Israeli media reported the first meetings were scheduled for Wednesday. 
Australia to install fire alert system 
KINGLAKE, Australia-The federal govern­ment said Thursday it will clear away hurdles that have stalled a nationwide fire alert telephone system, after thousands of people were caught by surprise by the most deadly wildfires in Australia's history. 
Privacy laws and bickering between state offi­cials over funding had snarled the plan for years, The Australian newspaper reported Thursday. But there is a new urgency after the weekend blazes in Victoria state killed at least 181 people. Officials said the death toll could exceed 200. 
Attorney General Robert McClelland said the plan had been raised in 2004 under the previous govermnent, but state officials had failed to agree on details and no steps have been taken to change privacy laws that bar emergency services from accessing the national telephone number database. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Obama honors Lincoln at gala 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama praised Abraham Lincoln for his conviction that a divided nation could be made whole at a gala Wednesday night celebrating the $25 mil­lion renovation of Ford's Theatre. 
The president and first lady Michelle Obama joined a crowd of Hollywood stars and Washington heavy-hitters for the celebration on the eve of Lincoln's 200th birthday. The theater where Lincoln was assassinated is reopening after an 18-month facelift that included new, more comfortable seats, a mod­ern lobby and new dressing rooms. 
Calling the theater "hallowed space" where Lincoln's legacy thrives, Obama praised him for restoring a sense of unity to the country. 

Van drags body through NYC 
NEW YORK -A van traveled for nearly an hour over busy New York City roads before its driver discovered the horrific cargo it had dragged almost 20 miles: the partially scraped­away body of a man who was plowed over by an SUV just before he got caught under the van. 
Police said the gruesome episode was acci­dental and that they have no plans to charge the drivers at this time. 
But that did not diminish the shock of seeing a dead man hooked under a van that had just traversed some of the busiest roads in the city. Police said the driver, Manuel Lituma Sanchez, had no idea he hit the victim until the end of his 
LOCAL NEWS 
Hospital has water supply again 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -The water is run­ning again at Deaconess Hospital in Evansville. 
The hospital was without its principal water supply Wednesday after a break to a city water main. Service was restored about 4 p.m., some 15 hours after the water main broke. 
Spokesman Sam Rogers says a boil advi­sory remains in effect for drinking water, so bottled water is being distributed to the hospital's 350 patients. But patients rtow can take showers and flush their toilets. 

NORTH KOREA 

N. Korea preps long-range missile test 
Country scraps peace agreements, seeks to provoke neighbor and 'Win Obama's attention 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea ­North Korea appears to be gearing up for another long­range missile test, the latest in a series of provocative acts seemingly aimed at stoking tensions with South Korea and winning the attention of the new U.S. president. 
In recent weeks, Pyongyang has declared it will scrap peace agreements with Seoul and warned of war on the Korean peninsu­la. Reports that it could be preparing to test a missile capable of reaching the western United States have added to the anxiety. 
South Koreas Yonhap news agency reported Wednesday that a vehicle carrying radar equipment was seen moving to a launch site on the Norths eastern coast from a munitions fac­tory near Pyongyang. 
"It can be analyzed that the North is proceeding with a missile launch preparation in stages," Yonhap quoted a South Korean government official it did not name as saying. 

South Korean and Japanese media said last week that intelligence agents had spotted a train carrying a long, cylinder-shaped scheduled to visit South said. "Its always been our Hirofumi Nakasone. object -believed to be a Korea next week. position that North Korea The National Intelligence long-range missile -to the The stalled multinational should refrain from provoca­Service, South Koreas main launch site at Musudan-ni. dialogue to disarm North tive actions that might spy agency, said it could not 
U.S. Defense Secretary Korea resumed late last year aggravate tensions in the comment because the report Robert Gates has played after the U.S. removed the region." was related to intelligence down reports of possible country from its list of The foreign ministers of matters. The Defense North Korean missile launch nations that sponsor terror­South Korea and Japan said Ministry said it was checking preparations, noting ism. Those talks also they were mindful about the the report. Tuesday that Pyongyangs involved China, Russia, possibility of another North South Koreas Defense last such test in 2006 was a South Korea and Japan. Korean missile test. Ministry and the Joint Chiefs failure and that the U.S. Pentagon spokesman "Both of us shared con­of Staff said the military had could shoot down a North Bryan Whitman warned cerns about North Koreas not upgraded its alert status. Korean missile "should we Wednesday that North intentional acts of stoking North Korean leader Kim deem it necessary." Koreas actions could disrupt tension ... and urge North Jong II meanwhile promoted 
Nevertheless, North the disarmament process. Korea to behave in a way close aides to key defense Koreas saber-rattling has "I think activities of this that contributes to regional posts in a move apparently been interpreted as an nature, should they be tak­stability," South Korean aimed at shoring up -and attempt to grab President ing place, would be harmful Foreign Minster Yu Myung­proving -his control over Barack Obamas attention; to the ongoing efforts, the hwan said at a news confer­the military following a spike 
U.S. Secretary of State diplomatic efforts within the ence in Seoul with his in tension on the Korean Hillary Rodham Clinton is six-party talks," Whitman Japanese counterpart, peninsula. 

AFGHANISTAN 



Taliban attack gov' t building, kill 20 
Associated Press The morning assault sent workers ed, he said. 
scrambling for safety as security The tactics the militants employed 
KABUL -Taliban militants killed forces spread out in the streets and were similar to the Mumbai assault 20 people in a coordinated attack on searched rooftops for attackers, rein­on hotels, 'markets and a train sta­three government buildings in Kabul forcing the perception that security tion last November that killed 164 in Wednesday, launching the assault in Afghanistan is rapidly deteriorat­India, said Amrullah Saleh, the head after sending text messages to the ing. Security analysts tracking daily of Afghanistan's intelligence service. leader of their terror cell in Pakistan, attacks say numbers have spiked this Indian officials have blamed the the head of Afghan intelligence said. year, and militants now control wide Mumbai attack on the Pakistani­
The three-pronged attack on gov­swaths of Afghan countryside. based militant group Lashkar-e­
ernment ministries struck the heart The assault began about 10 a.m. Taiba. Saleh did not blame Pakistan, of the heavily fortified capital on the and was carried out by eight insur­but said the attackers communicated eve of a visit by Richard Holbrooke, gents carrying Kalishnikov rifles, with a militant leader in Pakistan. President Barack Obama's special grenades and explosive vests. The "As they were entering the envoy to the region. It underscored Taliban claimed responsibility short­Ministry of Justice and before start­the reach of the Taliban outside their ly after the siege began. ing the indiscriminate killing of the mountainous strongholds and the All eight attackers died, said civilians there, they sent three mes­
challenges Obama faces as he Mohammad Hanif Atmar, the interior sages to Pakistan, calling for the increases America's focus -and minister, bringing the death toll to blessing of their mastermind," Saleh troop levels -in Afghanistan. 28. Another 57 people were wound-told a news conference. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 12, 2009 
"If someone goes to the important issues to the stu­students of disconneet from 
Huddle because they need dents, Schmidt and Weber students and neighbors. And I pencils they are going to buy said off-campus safety, while think we still need to work on 
Debate CCAC 
continued from page 1 
In response to a question from the audience at the end of the meeting about Schmidt's taxi reform plan, he said three out of the eight cab companies in South Bend have agreed to use his pro­gram of distributing booklets that would allow students to pay the cab fare with a coupon. 
"These [cab companies] have safety and efficiency stan­

"Derek and I feel that 
dards," he said. being able to those questions and talk to Burdick coun­since we have been a see the ISBN those people," Sanchez said. tered that numbers, we Schmidt countered that the
part ofall these 
many of the would contact Fisher Zoo and Wake Week eight cab com­student groups, we professors [for have not been cancelled, and panies that are get a lot better the numbers] Pig Tostal is off-campus and officially recog­and put them is not recognized by the
feedback."
nized by South on a Web site," University. Bend have Weber said. "Student government will independent Laura Burdick "Creating com­never go to· the administra­drivers that presidential candidate petition does tion saying, 'Can we have an 
will not accept the coupons. 
"Over half the drivers in the cab companies work independently, and you think you can use the ticket, but they'll say 'I work independ­ently,"' she said. 
Schmidt also said both he and Weber bring experience to the roles, as Schmidt cur­rently serves as student body vice president and Weber is the sophomore class presi­dent. 
Burdick argued that as ath­letic co-chairs in the Hall Presidents Council, she and Sanchez have been part of many student groups, so they know what students want their leaders to accomplish. 
"Derek and I feel that since we have been a part of all these student groups, we get a lot better feedback," Burdick said. 
Sanchez said the biggest strength of the Burdick­Sanchez ticket is originality, and he attacked Schmidt and Weber's platform for "piggy­backing old ideas." 
"It's really easy to say you have a lot of research done when the ideas are old," he said. 
A question from the Judicial Council asked Burdick and Sanchez about the feasibility of their tuition reform plan. 
Sanchez said he and Burdick have discussed tuition with Joseph Russo, director of Financial Aid at Notre Dame and researched a public service loan pro­gram. Additionally, he said they want to lower the Student Activities fee. 
"Student Activity fees are something we can control," he said. "The more they go up, the more they burden our families." 
In response, Schmidt said the Student Activities fee did not rise under his current administration with student body president Bob Reish. It is currently at about $95 and will not increase, he said. 
Weber said she and Schmidt realize tuition is a significant issue for students, so they will push for textbook price reform. 
"We can't lower tuition but we can work at textbook prices and prices in the Huddle," she said. 
Burdick said textbook price reform was a platform idea presented last year in the Reish-Schmidt campaign, and pointed out that Schmidt and Weber can't decrease prices in the Huddle, they will only be able to display them. 

them regardless," she said. "Having the price there does­n't lower the price." 
Schmidt expanded on his textbook reform plan, explaining that student gov­ernment would challenge the monopoly the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore has on the classroom materials by mak­ing the ISBN numbers public and presenting a cheaper alternative. 
"The bookstore has exclu­
sive rights, but 
instead of not 

Burdick and Sanchez said continuing Notre Dame tradi­tions such as the Dillon Pep Rally, Pig Tostal, Alumni Hall's Wake Week and the 
Fisher  Zoo,  which  are  
rumored to  have been  can­ 
celled.  

"We want to resurrect old events," Burdick said. 
Burdick said her adminis­tration will question University authorities about these cancelled traditions. 
"As student advocates, we think it is our role to ask 
subvert a 
monopoly." 

Sanchez attacked this idea, stating that it is unoriginal, and claiming that the Burdick-Sanchez ticket will bring originality to the office. 
"I just want to emphasize that this plan was used last year and it. didn't happen," he said. "While we're talking about how easy this is and how feasible this is, you've 
off-campus kegger?"' Weber said. "It's not something we aim to touch." 
However, Schmidt said if they do get wind that Wake Week or the Fisher Zoo will be cancelled, they will ask the necessary questions. 
"You better believe we will take action," he said. 
Schmidt and Weber were asked about the criticism they have received for being 
had a year to do it and it's 
still not done." "There are a lot of Sanchez later things that will get 
stated only 19 
carried over, and

of Schmidt's 
approximately there are a lot of 
55 platform things that still need ideas are new. 
to get done. " 

Responding to the continual attacks of uno­Grant Schmidt riginality in his presidential candidate 
platform, Schmidt said 
unapproach­able. 
Weber said she hopes they have not come across as unapproach­able, but if they seem businesslike, it is because gov­erning the stu­dent body is serious busi­ness. 
continued from page I 
ed. 
The Coalition also discussed zoning regulations that state where students can and cannot live ofT-campus. 
Council attorney Kathy Cekanski-Farrand said there have been two cases this year where students have had to find another residence mid­year because they were living in a house illegally. 
This typically doesn't hap­pen, but she is "afraid it's lead­ing towards Ibecoming) the norm," she said. 
Common Council member Ann Puzzello said single-family neighborhoods such as Harter Heights, are not meant for stu­dent housing. 
"Any student rentals in that neighborhood that involve more than two unrelated stu­dents are illegal, to be perfectly honest," Puzzello said. 
There are always exceptions, which is why this problem is hard to enforce. For example, a resident in a single-family area is able to rent out his or her house to one student, but is not allowed to nmt it out to two unrelated students, Puzzello said. 
New laws specifying zoning regulations might help, Kirsits said. 
"What we have now is very weak and I think we need to get some stronger base there so we can pursue this," he said. 
He also suggested informing students' parents about which areas are legal for their chil­dren to live in. 
Another problem addressed at the meeting was how to improve relationships between students who live off campus and their neighbors. 
"Four doors down, I have some college kids living there ... and it's been a disaster," said Kirsits, who clarified that by disaster, he meant that he had very little relations with them. "It has been difficult to get to know those guys and I've tried reaching out," Kirsits said. 
Student body president Bob Reish also saw the lack of rela­tionship between oiT-eampus students and community mem­bers. 
"There's still a feeling from that," Reish said. 

For example, there were some block parties held by community members, which few students attended, and block parties held by students, which few community mem­bers attended, he said. 
To improve such problems, Reish recommended an event that would push students and community members together in a way that would force them to communicate. 
He suggested having a com­munity service day where stu­dents and community members would do service together. 
This led to a more general discussion about the relation­ship between South Bend resi­dents and the University. 
Marguerite Taylor, a resident of the North East neighbor­hood, said many South Bend residents feel detached from University life. 
"[My fatherllived in the same house more than 60 years within walking distance of the campus and he'd never been on ... And l don't think he is unusual," Taylor said. 
Puzzello expressed interest in getting a tour of campus, or coming to campus for an event. 
"Just once, II'd like for com­munity members to) come in your area and enjoy some­thing," Puzzello said. 
Reish said there are events on campus that invite commu­nity members to participate. He pointed out the Keenan Hall Great Pumpkin event around Halloween. 
"Tours of campus might be a great start" in making commu­nity members feel welcome on campus, he said. 
But Reish also pushed for CCAC to take action. 
"I think this year has been more ... updates rather than action," he said. 
He said he thinks CCAC is a body that can unite the com­munity and the school, and hopes the council will focus on "community building, as opposed to being reactive." 
In an effort to open campus up to community members, the next meeting will be held at Notre Dame. It will be held at the end of March, although no date is finalized. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
continuity with the previous administration is necessary. 
"There are a lot of things that will get carried over, and there are a lot of things that still need to get done," he said. 
Weber said a campaign platform is basically a plan for the year, so it makes sense to continue with the productive efforts of the old administration. 
When asked what the can­didates believe are the most 
However, Schmidt said that while they take the job seri­ously, they are regular col­lege students too. 
"We are normal students," he said. ''I'm from Dallas, Texas, she's from Tennessee. I like baseball and she likes guitar." 
Students will vote in the run-off election between 8 
a.m. and 8 p.m. Thursday. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, February 12, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,939.53 +50.65 
Up: 2,169  Same: 128  Down: 1,560  Composite Volume: 1,778,171,957  
AMEX  
NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  1,530.50 +5.77 5~2S2[II!ll'iJVI17!97'' 833.74 +6.58  

NIKKEI (Tokyo)"""· · rllllil!!lli!i*iiiilll FTSE 100 (London) 4,234.26 +21.18 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (SAC) +9.17 +0.51 6.07 SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +0.59 +0.49 83.60 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +4.81 +0.43 9.32 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) *0.46 ..0.14 30.20 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.99 -0.085 2.76 13-WEEK BILL -1.64 0.00 0.30 30-YEAR BOND -2.21 -o.os 3.45 5-YEAR NOTE -1.45 -0.026 1.77 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.61 35.94 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +30.30 944.50 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) 0.00 80.98 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 90.2600 EURO 1.2906 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2416 BRITISH POUND 1.4391 
IN BRIEF 
Madoff wife withdraws $15 million 
BOSTON -The wife of disgraced money manager Bernard Madoff withdrew more than $15 million from a firm co-owned by her husband-including $10 million on the day their children turned her husband over to authorities for overseeing an alleged $50 billion Ponzi scheme, the top securities reg­ulator in Massachusetts said Wednesday. 
Secretary of State William Galvin said Ruth Madoff. 67, withdrew $5.5 million on Nov. 25 and $10 million on Dec. 10 -the day before Bernard Madoff was arrested ­from Cohmad Securities Corp., a New York firm co-owned by her husband. I 
The secretary cited wire transfer records produced by Cohmad as proof of the with­drawals. They came as Madoff's scheme was unraveling as investors filed $7 billion worth of redemption requests. 
They also appeared to follow what authorities consider a disturbing trend on the part of the Madoffs to hide money that could be used to reimburse burned investors. 
Bankers vow finance reform 
WASHINGTON -Facing a disgusted pub­lic and Congress, bank CEOs agreed with demands for greater accountability Wednesday in the first testimony on how they're spending money from the taxpayer­funded $700 billion bailout. 
"Both our firm and our industry have far to go to regain the trust of taxpayers, investors and public officials," John J. Mack, head of Morgan Stanley, told the House Financial Institutions Committee. 
Added JP Morgan Chase & Co.'s Jamie Dimon: "We stand ready to do our part going forward." 
The eight top bankers appearing before the panel were generally contrite and con­ceded they have work to do to win over a bitter public and an exasperated Congress. They had little choice but to acknowledge as much, given intense anger and anxiety as the troubled financial system continues to spiral downward in an ever-worsening recession. 

Congress, president pass stimulus bill 
Democrats work quickly to clear the way for $790 billion to help economy 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Moving with lightning speed, the Democratic-controlled Congress and White House agreed Wednesday on a compromise $790 billion economic stimulus bill designed to create millions of jobs in a nation reeling from recession. President Barack Obama could sign the measure within days. 
"More than one-third of this bill is dedicated to pro­viding tax relief for middle­class families, cutting taxes for 95 percent of American workers," said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid at a Capitol news confer­ence where he was joined by moderates from both parties whose support is essential for the legisla­tion's final passage. 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., Reid's part­ner in negotiations over more than 24 intense hours. initially withheld her approval in a lingering disagreement over federal funding for school con­struction. "We had to make sure the investment in edu­cation" was in the bill, she said. 
Obama, who has cam­paigned energetically for the legislation, welcomed the agreement in a written statement that said it would "save or create more than 3.5 million jobs taxes would get a reduc­according to officials. They Republicans couldn't and get our economy back tion in the Social Security added that the measure have disagreed more. on track." and Medicare taxes they will include $46 billion for "It appears that 
The emerging legislation pay. transportation projects Democrats have made a is at the core of Obama's The bill also includes such as highway, bridge bad bill worse by reducing economic recovery pro­help for victims of the and mass transit construc­the tax relief for working gram. recession in the form of tion. families in order to pay for 
The president's signature expanded unemployment The president also won more wasteful government tax cut was preserved -a benefits, food stamps, money for two other spending," said Rep. John break for millions of lower­health coverage and more, administration priorities -Boehner of Ohio. and middle-income taxpay­as well as billions for states information technology in But some prominent ers of $400 per individual that face the prospect of health care, and "green Republicans straddled the and $800 ·per couple. making deep cuts in school jobs" to make buildings issue. That's less than the $500 aid and other programs. more energy-efficient and Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, and $1,000 the White Another provision will reduce the nation's last year's Republican run­House originally sought, mean a one-time payment reliance on foreign oil. ning mate and a potential although officials said it of $250 for millions of ben­The bill "will be the White House contender in would mean an estimated eficiaries who receive beginning of the turn­2012, said her state was $13 per week extra per Social Security, around for the American ready to accept a projected paycheck. Supplemental Security economy," predicted Sen. $1 billion in federal funds 
Wage-earners who don't Income and veterans pen­Joe Lieberman, the inde­if they make sense for the earn enough to pay income sions and disability, pendent from Connecticut. state. 


Oil prices fall to $36 inAsia, rise in US 
inventories jumped by 4. 7 million 84.7 million barrels per day, 570,000 
Associated Press barrels for the week ended Feb. 6, barrels less thari the previous., esti­SINGAPORE -Oil prices lingered more than an increase of 3.4 million mate. near $36 a barrel Thursday in Asia, barrels expected by analysts sur­"It's still a market that's really following a steep fall overnight, as veyed by Platts, the energy informa­focused on demand," Burg said. "I surging crude inventories in the U.S. tion arm of McGraw-Hill Cos. think there's potential for conditions stoked investor concern that con­Including last week's build up, to weaken further." sumer demand will continue to fall crude inventories have swelled by Investors are also skeptical that a amid a deep recession. more than 30 million barrels in the Treasury Department plan Light, sweet crude for March deliv­past six weeks. announced earlier this week to ery rose 10 cents to $36.04 a barrel "Conditions in the West and global­spend more than $1 trillion to help by mid morning in Singapore on the ly remain quite weak," said Gerard remove banks' soured assets from New York Mercantile Exchange. The Burg, minerals and energy econo­their books and unclog the credit contract fell $1.61 overnight to settle mist with National Australia Bank in markets will work. at $35.94. Melbourne. "Given the economic "The bank plan lacked specifics, 
U.S. crude oil inventories have outlook, there's little to drive prices and the market is quite concerned jumped in recent weeks as rising higher." that it won't kick start the economy," unemployment erodes spending on Forecasters continue to lower their said Christoffer Moltke-Leth, head of gasoline. expectations for crude demand. The sales trading for Saxo Capital 
A weekly report Wednesday from Paris-based International Energy Markets in Singapore. the Energy Information Agency said Wednesday that global Falling prices may eventually trig­Administration showed that crude oil demand in 2009 will likely be ger a recovery in the medium-term, 
/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Thursday, February 12, 2009 



IEWPOINT 
More information please 

page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sotfth Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CmEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR B!JSINFSS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz . 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King · 

SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: MaryJesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
. ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631·5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoim@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

{574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 35 possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to aU readers. The free expression ofaU opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohscrv~r (USPS 599 2-4000) ~ p1,1bfisha:l: Monday through Friday exccpl during cum and vacation periods. A subscription to TlK Obscrvrr ill $100 for one: acadcm«.: year; SS5 for ane: semester. 
The: Observer is pubHshtd at: POSTMASTER 

02.4 South Dining HaU Stnd address c:orrtaions w: Norrc Dame. IN 46:556-0n9 TheOW:rver Periodical post~ paid ;1.( Notre Dame P.O:Boxn9 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining I~ I 
Notre Dame,lN 46556..0779 
The: 0bser¥er is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righL$ are reserved. • 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Mandi Stirone Fran Tolan Ashley Charnley Laura Myers Tess Civantos Alex West 
Graphics Scene Mary Jesse Mark Witte Viewpoint 
Stephanie Vossler 

Last week the Notre Dame Office of International Studies (OIS) posted its decisions for the current sophomore class regarding their junior year study abroad aspirations. As some of my friends excitedly tore open letters, I began to think back to the application process myself. 
By any standard, the OIS is an over­whelming success. They successfully enroll nearly 40 percent of the stu­dent population into study abroad programs, and feature a wide range of programs across quite a few countries. U.S. News and World Report has given the Notre Dame OIS top marks for its study abroad. They have programs for students of every school, both undergraduate and graduate. 
However, there are a few issues with the process of applying for sophomore undergrads that are overly complicat­ed, confusing and hazy. First, the application process has come to resemble the arduous task that apply­ing to college was in the first place. I have heard the terms "get in" and "have an edge" used far more fre­quently for the study abroad process than I think is healthy. While the need to evaluate the appropriateness of can­didates for a program is necessary for the reputation of the department abroad and even just for space consid­erations, the confusion and stress inherent in the current process is not. 
If OIS wants the process to be com­petitive in this way, however, then it should takes steps to level the informa­tion playing field for applicants. In thinking back to my experiences in applying the college, I can't help but remember the magazines and books that included not only write-ups on the 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for Valentine's Day? 
Going out with my significant other Going out with friends Staying in Crying myself to sleep 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
experiences that different institutions provide, but also the statistical data proliling their students bodies. This included any number of metrics, from standardized test score averages, to acceptance ratf~. mean GPA, etc. They also would include information con­cerning the application process and evaluation standards. This set of infor­mation was essential in deciding which schools were appropriate for me both personally and academically. 
Simply providing this information would be the best way to improve this competitive application process. Right now, most of this information is sup­plied to prospective applicants through anecdotal situations and hearsay. This sort of information can l?e highly mis­leading, and for some students, fatal to their study abroad chances. 
While I (unfortunately) cannot docu­ment this, I have heard that the popu­lar Dublin, Ireland program is quite competitive. In one case, I heard that a 
3.7 was the bare minimum to "get in." In another, I heard it was a 3.2. Regardless, I was able to figure out, generally speaking, that Dublin was tough. A borderline student not privy to any of this information at all, may lead their application with Dublin or even put all of his eggs in just one bas­ket. In my own case, I based my own evaluation of my chances of accept­ance on the only student I could even find who had applied to the same pro­gram. 
Cleverer students who are generally more aware of the gossip surrounding each location's competitiveness maneuver differently, however, and exhibit a sort of flight to safety. With only one application and one chance this is the easiest way to ensure an experience abroad. 
To its credit, OIS has attempted to eliminate some of these problems by allowing students to apply to multiple programs and then ranking them in order of preference. The issue, again, is lack of information concerning the consequences of these decisions. At the first big meeting of my sophomore year, someone asked how a program's rank affects its chances of being accepted. The answer we were given was unclear and we came away with only a vague idea of what the best strategy for applying was. 
Posting some measurements and sta­tistics similar to those in a Fiske guide would eliminate many of these prob­lems. Even just a GPA range and acceptance rate would help consider­ably. With this information, Notre Dame students already savvy in com­petitive application processes would be more self-selecting in their choices. Borderline students would know which programs offer their best chance of acceptance, and the most qualified applicants would be confident in their decision to compete in one of the tougher programs. This could also expedite the process by eliminating a number of applications for students who are not confident enough to apply to only one or two places, but instead work on five or six applications. 
Ultimately, OIS does its best to try and sort everybody out into a predeter­mined number of spots. The depart­ment would help itself immeasurably if it acknowledged the necessary compe­tition that arises from the scarcity of spots more openly, and provided more of the information necessary about the process and competition itself in addi­tion to the great information already provided about the benefits and expe­rience accrued from each program. ­This would enable students to be more self sorting and cognizant of their chances of success come February. 
Jason Coleman is a junior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
You THINk tT'S FUNNY THIS IS \\P\?PENfNG -rwo LvEEkS 
A~"'f"G£<! WE 
-rook oFPlCE 
' 


I THIN.k tT:S FUNNY You ERECTED 'THIS MoNUMENT -rwo wesk.s 
ge:FoRe 1-/E 
ToOk Of:FlCE 
I 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Happiness in intelligentpeople is the rarest thing I know." 
Ernest Hemingway 
U.S. author

wwwJ1dsmcobserver.can1::s 
TH.E OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 12, 2009 page 9 
Will Jesus show for the Louisville game tonight? 
What would be a justifiable spiritual insight from Campus Ministry to get us through our men's basketball team's seven-game losing streak? All of us­fans, players and coaches -have been 
disappointed and  
discouraged at how  Fr. Lou DeiFra  
the season has  
gone. But, ifsport  Faithpoint  
is a metaphor for  
life, then enduring  

unexpected losing streaks can teach us something about responding to disap­pointment in our own lives. But what? Or as the old bracelets would say: What Would Jesus Do ... on a seven-game los­ing streak? 
The easy -but ultimately dis-spiriting -answer is that, when we fail, God does­n't care. God's love is totally uncondition­al. God's love is constant, and non­dependent on our performance. While these things are certainly true, alone they seem to blaze a spiritually futile path. Because they come dangerously close to suggesting that what we do, and how well we do it, is ultimately meaningless. True enough, God's love for the members of our athletic teams has absolutely nothing to do with whether they win or lose, any more than God's love for us changes according to our GPA. But do we really wish to conclude that our efforts, then, mean nothing to God? 
Several Gospels point to the contrary. Perhaps most famously, the Parable of the Talents suggests that God rewards the efforts of those who invest their talents wisely, while being slightly less enthralled with ones who bury them. True, the Sermon on the Mount lauds the poor and the meek, but stops short of justifying los­ing on purpose, or not caring about our efforts. Mter all, Jesus concludes, "You are the light of the world. This light is not to be placed under a bushel basket." 
What the people in the Gospels do, and how well they do it, often matters -a ton. Peter and Andrew, James and John, have to make a decision about the use of their gifts when Jesus passes them on the seashore. Their heroic ending is not pre­determined; they could be (un)known today as four mildly successful Galilean fishermen. Contrast the woman at the well with the rich young man -both encounter Jesus' invitation to use their gifts in a stunningly converted way. One follows, and thrives. The other departs downcast. Our choices matter. 
In fact, it seems fair to say that the Gospels teach us that God cares deeply about our decisions about how to spend our lives and talents, and the energy and exuberance we invest in carrying them out. So, it cannot be the case that, because God's love is unconditional, therefore, it simply doesn't matter how much energy we spend in sharing our gifts. 
Still, before we go too far, we must con­tend with Jesus' lauding of the poor and mourning in that Sermon on the Mount. We must contend with Jesus' clear prefer­ence for sinners, tax collectors, and pros­titutes -surely not shining examples of folks maxing out their God-given talents. And we must contend, above all, with the central symbol of our faith-Jesus, mira­cle-worker and preacher extraordinaire, maxing out gifts like no one before ­hanging from a Cross -utterly defeated. 
The response of Christianity to human failure is profound, and complex -and fittingly so, for such is our existence. Our faith ought to match our experience in terms of profundity and complexity. Interpretations of Christianity that water down our disappointments and failures to "God will take care of everything in the end" may provide some temporary sooth­ing, but do they really convince and satis­fy us? 
Gazing at the Cross, it is difficult to think that Christianity is a religion that will claim to defend against losing streaks, preserve us from any and all hurt, or rid the world of suffering anytime soon. What the Cross does teach us is that some failure and disappointment -even sometimes great, seemingly insurmount­able failure and disappointment -is inevitable. If you're going to play the game, you're going to have losing streaks. If you're going to live, you're going to experience frustration and disappoint­ment. 
And what the Cross further teaches is that God is deeply present for it all. In fact, this central symbol of our faith con­tains within it the deepest promise of hope -that where we seem to fail, there God is most intensely present to us, trans­forming our failures and weaknesses into opportunities for new, resurrected life. As St. Paul wrote so full of hope, so defiant in the face of his weakness: "Where sin abounds, there grace abounds all the more." 
Or, as Jesus will gently point out in tonight's pre-game: "Where losing abounds, there you have to rebound all the more." 
This week's article is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC. ofCampus Ministry Bible Studies and chaplain for the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Genuine beauty and hook-ups 
How does beauty play into the hook-up cul­ture? What's the difference between external and internal beauty? What is "internal beau­ty?" Is there an inherent beauty in all of us? Why do people continue to hook-up? Can hooking-up be a hurtful addiction? Does hooking up validate our self-worth, through a recognition of external or internal beauty? 
Chances are, you have your own opinion on some, or all, of the above questions. There is no denying that the hook-up culture is alive and present at Notre Dame, and the underly­ing issues of beauty and respect deserve to be examined in the context of "why" hook-ups happen. Understanding that there may or may not be a "correct answer" to these ques­tions, the Edith Stein Project, an initiative of the Identity Project of Notre Dame, seeks to answer these questions through a six-student panel on Friday, Feb. 13 at 2:15p.m. in McKenna Hall, Room 102. 
The session will start with a brief presenta­tion on self-image and eating disorders by Caroline Lashutka, followed by a six-student panel that will present on the above ques­tions. The six students are: Nathan Loyd from ND Right to Life and Pure Love Club, Jim Redden and Michael Bohnert from the Knights of Columbus, Mark Skylling from Iron Sharpens Iron, and ND students Melissa Buddie and Katie Michel. While all panelists agree that we are called to live up to the inherent dignity of human beings, their views on internal and external beauty, as well as the hook-up culture, are varied. Each panelist will provide a personal testimony on how they see beauty in our society and how the forces of external or internal beauty play into hook­ing up, if at all. 
Whether you love a good hook-up, or are repulsed by the hook-up culture, this panel is for you. If you've done it a few times and are tempted or disgusted by the idea of doing it again, this panel is also for you. 
For more information about the conference, please visit www.nd.edu/-idnd/edithstein. Sincerely, 
Natassia Kwan Caitlin Podlaski Joanna Emilian Theresa Klinkhammer Edith Stein Project Feb. 11 
Adtninistration kills fun 
I am not so much responding to Trey's comments ("Tradition never graduates," Feb. 9) as I am agreeing with them. In terms of society, Notre Dame separates itself from other schools from the start by having things like parietals and no frats or sororities. In our history, we have more than made up for it with dorm life rivaled by no one else. Is it even a question why so few students move off campus? 
With that dorm life has come some gre'at dorm tradi­tions. Both of my parents went here, and so for most of my life, I have gotten to listen to them talk about their times here. Now that I am a student I hear even more. Sometimes I go to dinner with my parents and their friends from school and I can tell you this: When they go down memory lane they are not talking about studying for tests and going to mass every Sunday. They tell stories involving alcohol (just a little), about going on panty raids to Saint Mary's, amazing dorm events and sneaking their cars on campus past the security guards. It's these traditions that keep our alumni so tight. 
I don't think the administration realizes how good they have it with this student body. In terms of immaturity and 
An epiphany 
Students of Notre Dame, I have seen the light, the beacon of eternal hope that Ms. Michelle Fordice lit for me and my peers in the Inside Column "Fashion at ND. Or Not" (Feb. 10). For so many yeaFs I have been marching around this dark cold world dressed no better than a slovenly mountain climbing gardener. In my foolish, self absorbed 19-year-old mind I completely for­got that I am the center of everyone's attention. How could I have been so inconsiderate when I dressed myself in the morn­ing? How dare I offend the eyes of those around me when I walk to class charading as a sherpa with my poor jeans stuffed visciously into my Ugg boots. What was I thinking wearing those sweatpants? Damn you sweatpants! Damn you and your false promises of comfort and your whispers of warmth. All the long days of my life I have been disgracing myself, my family, and my friends . 
Never again shall I dare to join the drones as they walk to DeBartolo in their North Face jackets and their classless boots. What right have I to wear mountainous paraphenalia? South Bend is probably the fifth flattest place on the planet, I say "If you can't see the mountain, don't act like you can." I am trad­ing in my blasphemous fleece for classic camo, with a military flare, and turning in my Uggs for a pointed toe and some extra height and by God ifI fall, I will fall in glory! 
P.S. I would like to take this time to issue a public apology to my legs. I'm sorry I turned you into stumps, you deserve better. 
Joanie Fisher 
sophomore 
Walsh Hall 
Feb. 10 

rowdiness we are nothing compared to the students at schools like Michigan, Penn State and USC, whose week­ends start on Wednesday nights. We are a different type of student body. 
That is why we chose to go here. We study, worship, and do service work, but we want to have fun with that as well. I am not a big partier, but I certainly understand that over­stressed young adults need to let go on the weekends and just have fun. Personally, when I get older, I want to be able to tell my kids about all the fun I had at school similar to what my father has told me. It certainly feels like the administration is doing all they can to eliminate that. They need to take-a lesson from history and Prohibition. If you try to take away our means of having fun, we will just find somewhere else to do it, and I'm sure the administration would love more off-campus parties. 
Matthew McManus 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Feb. 10 
The Manti cotneth 
On Feb. 4, Hawaiian Linebacker Manti Te'o signed his letter of intent to play football at our beloved Notre Dame. The very next day, Editor-in-Chief Chris Hine claimed that the expectation placed upon his soldiers was "absurd talk" ("Kids are too young to warrant such hype," Feb. 5). Absurd? Is it absurd to assume that Manti will tackle 100 people per game, sack 40 quarterbacks, intercept 21 passes, score 12 defensive touchdowns, beat USC, win tl1e Heisman, crush Tim Tebow, and save the economy, all the while leading us to the first of four consecutive undefeat­ed seasons and national championships? 
No. 

Pat Hogan junior Fisher Hall Feb. 10 
r----------~-~ ~--­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

Walking into Macri's, the very first sen­standard, but the ingredients and the agreeable especially to thos~ who like By J.J. REES sation to land is the smell. It seems ludi­exceptional Italian dressing make it just them cheesy. The "delights" were slices crous to think of the combined smell of different enough to be worth trying. of swirled cake with creamy filling. The
Scene Writer cookies, cheeses, cakes, muffins and Although the other sandwiches (ham and amaretto delight with cherry was won-Until three years ago, Macri's Deli, Italian meats as appetizing, but by some swiss, vegetable, derful and not too near East Race. was an easy spot for the unique happening, here it works. grilled tomato and fruity, but was still downtown lunch break crowd during the One is struck by the atmosphere imme­muffalata) offer enough for more than
Park (~IJ Hill Street, enter
day, and an ordinary sports bar with diately. Despite its upmarket style, solid fare, most out­one sitting. Lastly, the sandwiches and beer at night. Macri's presents an easygoing atmos­standing is the Macri's and take a deep well-sized peanut but­In 2006, owners George and Carmela phere, probably due to the helpfui and overall favorite, the ter and plain choco­
breath. Then, walk by the 
Macri made the excellent decision to interested staff, and the easy booths and Italian Grinder late chip cookies were
bakery and pretend to notice
remodel and shift their focus towards an tables. Displays of groceries not offered (salami, coppa, just right -slightly Italian bakery, also adding a gorgeous elsewhere, like pizza dough and raw spe­mortadella, pro­only slightly the cases of crunchy and chewy in restaurant area (Carmela's) more suit­cialty pasta, are surrounded by painted volone, roasted red all the right places. 
pastries and desserts as you
able to dinner crowds. Since then, the murals of Italian scenes. None of the peppers and again, For first-timers,
intelligently size up the 
appropriately renamed Macri's Italian decor comes off as authentically Italian, Italian dressing). there is an effective Bakery has been a starting point for non­but to the Macri family's credit, the This gives a rich, groceries to the right. process for taking in chain Italian food in South Bend. restaurant has an undeniable Italian feel, almost spicy taste the entire scene. Park 
Macri's Italian Bakery 
214 N. Niles Ave. (574-282-1010) 
Hours: Lunch 11-2 M-F, Dinner 5-9 T-R, 5-10 F-Sa Prices: Ha~ sandwiches $5.50, desserts $3 10 Words or Less: Fantastic Italian taste, first-rate sandwiches and desserts. 
especially when cou­that truly is redo-off Hill Street, enter pled with the food. lent of Italy. Diners who have room Macri's and take a deep breath. Then, 
The two most popular would be well-advised to try a side, such walk by the bakery and pretend to notice sandwiches are the as one of the many pasta salads, or the only slightly the cases of pastries and Italian Grinder and the excellent mozzarella balls with roasted desserts as you intelligently size up the Sicilian Turkey, and for red peppers mixed in with fresh toma­groceries to the right. At the deli counter, good reason. These toes that even a tomato-hater can enjoy. order the Italian Grinder and maybe a sandwiches best suit A visit to the deli is incomplete without side, while keeping in mind everything the Macri's style of a dessert from the bakery. Perhaps most you smelled at the bakery. After your fresh ingredients famous for its cakes, they also serve sandwich, take a peek into the Tuscan­paired with ideal superb pastries, donuts and especially decorated Carmela's restaurant as you preparation, and they cookies. Pleasantly lilled after our sand­digest (Valentine's diners take note: the are sized to Jill -a half wiches, my companion and I were reluc­romantic Carmela's is still taking reser­sandwich would fill tantly willing to spring for desert and we vations for Friday night, but is all booked most. were recommended the highlights of Saturday). Lastly, visit the bakery for 
The Sicilian Turkey each case. The Morning Glory carrot your choice of a dessert or two, and (turkey, tomato, lettuce, cake-type muffin was fine, as was the know that you can't go wrong. mozzarella, Italian glazed donut, but probably best for, well, dressing) ·is mostly morning. The variety of cannoli would be 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 
independent eifort, entitled "Up Until Now" "Indiana" experienced exponential record expressive of his small town roots. A twinge in 2003. Shortly afterward McLaughlin sales, furthering McLaughlin's tour-de-force of romance is more than apparent as well in By PATRICK GRIFFIN became one of the first artists to sign with campaign. the work of the 26-year-old, making him the 
Scene Writer 
Orangehaus Records, a product of the McLaughlin's sophomore album, "OK perfect performer for this weekend:s "Killer 
Growing up in the quiet rural community Anderson, Indiana community. His record­Now," continued the Hoosier's journey into Love" celebration at Legends. His songs of Anderson, Ind., Jon McLaughlin found an ing contract afforded touring opportunities the hearts of li<>teners. The self-proclaimed address topics such as adolescence in the outlet in original music. From his adolescent ·and a formidable regional fan base in the "child of the 80s" recorded hi<> latest collec­Midwest, young love and his own personal musical development, through Midwest. tion of piano-driven ballads in Los Angeles coming of age process. his time at Anderson University, The Ii1diana native officially with producer John Fields (IJfehouse, Jonas For all of McLaughlin's vocal skill appar­where he studied. music, and Jon McLaughlin arrived on the national music Bros. and Switchfoot). Since the album's ent on "Indiana" and "OK Now," it Ls easily beyond, McLaughlin honed the Saturday, scene after signing with Island release in late 2008, "OK Now" has achieved matched, if not surpassed, by his expertise skills and creativity necessary to Records in May 2007 with the notable success, becoming one of the top 50 on the piano. McLaughlin displays skill
IOp.m.
establish a strong grassroots fol­release of his first full-length · most popular albums on U.S. charts. The beyond his years when tickling the pearly lowing. Tickets are free. album named for his home single "Breaking My Heart" has been listed 88. Consider the evidence in the introduction The 26-year-old composer of Notre Dame, state. The release of "Indiana" as high as No. 18 on adult contemporary of McLaughlin's single "Industry." The two full-length albums visits marked the outburst of the charts. expression and speed of "Industry's" open­
Saint Mary's or 
South Bend this weekend for an artist's career. He began a tour McLaughlin follows in the wake of the ing display is a testament to McLaughlin's exclusive Legends of Notre Holy Cross with American Idol champ Kelly recent revival in piano driven pop-rock. The early formal training a'i well a<> his creative Dame performance, with home Student ID Clarkson and later, a separate piano virtuoso is approaching the popularity genius. state advantage. tour with fellow newcomer Sara of similar artists such as Gavin DeGraw, · McLaughlin will be returning to his home 
required.
McLaughlin was groomed for Bareilles. The single "So Close," Keane, The Fray and Daniel Powter. While state this Saturday for an exclusive concert the music business from an early was featured in the Disney McLaughlin may still be on the rise, he sure­here at Notre Dame. The show begins at 10. age, attending piano lessons despite his dis­movie, "Enchanted," and was performed at ly exhibits talent enough to warrant the suc­p.m. on Saturday evening. Admission is free dain for formal training. A serious car acci­the 80th anniversary Academy Awards. cess of these slightly more prolific artL'il'i. to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross dent that shattered both of McLaughlin's Another "Indiana" single "Beautiful Listening to McLaughlin's work, it is not students. wrists could only delay the young talent's Disa<>ter" attracted upwards of 420,000 fans diflicult to catch the Midwestern apprecia­arrival on the national scene. during its tenure as iTunes "Single of the tion apparent in the pianist's songs. Contact Patrick Griffin at 
McLaughlin released his first album, an Week." Following these accomplishments, McLaughlin's vocals are energetic and pgriffi3@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, February 12, 2009 
page 11 

Thursday: pple Express at . Friday: Midnight, Legends ·.o,,,srowningCinema 
So, the intro to this column was going to ND is making you an offer you can't refuse. As, start with a quote from one of the funniest the 80th anniversary of the St. Valentine's Day movies you'll ever see,. but seeing as a·. Massacre rolls around this weekend,. celebrate 
majority of the funny quotes have the f-your inner mobster by seeing the biggest mob 
word in them, you'll just have to look them ·,,classic of all time, "The Godfather." When Vito • '-up on your own time (which, let me tell ,, ' Corleone (Marlon Brando), the leader of one of ·.you, would be time well spent). Don't miss~~the most powerful New York Mafia families, suf­.this chance to see Seth Rogen (famous for···!;_· fers an assassination attempt, his black sheep· 
"Superbad," "Knocked Up" and "The 40 sonMichaelrejoinsthefamilytoputtheCorleone Year Old Virgin") and James Franco family back in its rightful position -leader of the ,("Spiderman," "Annapolis"" and "Tristan Mob ring. Watch the violence, the passion and . .and Isolde") embark on a druggie adven-... the culture that made this film one of the world's 
•ture as they run from a cop-and-drug-lord ,··greatest hits. Tickets are $6, $5 for faculty/staff, duo to escape the people who want to mur-·:. $4 for seniors and $3 for all students. der them and achieve justice, Make sure to bring tissues. You'll be laughing so hard, ·····Sunday: Turtle Island Quartet with Special 
, ,you'll cry. :tGuest Cyrus Chestnut, 2:00 pm, Leighton 
Concert Hall ··Saturday: Valentines from Hollywood and . On Sunday, see the 2008 Grammy-winning ·Broadway at 8:00 p.m., Morris · ·o.. quartet that inaugural cellist Yo-Yo Ma deemed, 
Performing Arts Center "a unified voice that truly breaks new ground ­Broadway stars Anne Runolfsson and ,authentic and passionate-a reflection of some Gary Mauer will travel to South Be.nd on · · of the most creative music-making today."· 
Saturday for a special Valentine's Day per-~Formed over 24 years ago, the Turtle Island formance. Singing the most beautiful love String Quartet performs pieces that range in style songs from Hollywood and Broadway, their ,,, from Bluegrass to European classical to Indian • show will make the audience's hearts swell;, ; and more. Not only has this group explored dif-· with romance, feeling like Cupid's arrow ·.. : ferent styles, but it has also covered Jiini Hendrix 
~pieced their hearts. Listen to these two, ·and Eric Clapton songs proving the quartet's famous for performance in The Phantom of diversity in musical taste. Don't miss 1he chance :the Opera and Les Miserables, belt out bal-.... to see two violins, a viola and a cello work in bar-lads perfect for you and the one you love.. ·mony to bring you your favorite music. Tickets 
. Tickets range from· $24-$65 for adults and ~:••.. are $38, $30 for faculty/staff, $29 for seniors and $5-$21 for students. Seniors 65 and over<• '·$15 all students. r;eceive a $2 discount. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Another week another dining hall dish! This week's recipes are .a bit varied, but they are all pretty tasty. The microwave has been out of commission at North for about a week, so hopefully it will return soon. In the meantime, all of these dish­es can be made without our favorite contraption. And as a special bonus? Look forward to the special Valentine's ·Day Dining Hall Dish tomorrow. · 
This week's recipes: 
Kicked Up Macaroni and Cheese 
Macaroni and cheese is that 
great homey meal that only improves with experimenta­tion. There are thousands of recipes out there putting varia­tions on this dish and starting with the basic macaroni and cheese the dining hall offers, you can have your own fun. 
Fill a bowl with as much macaroni and cheese as you want. 
Top with red pepper flakes and some blue cheese (Be careful not to overdo either. They both pack a pretty good punch, so you don't need a ton to get lots of flavor). The hot macaroni and cheese base should melt the blue cheese. 
Add in some steamed broc­coli (you will have to cut it up to make it bite-sized). 
Mix together. Feel free to try the same idea using different new ingredients. 
Mashed Sweet Potato 
The dining halls have baked sweet potatoes fairly often, and there is a lot you can do with them. This recipe is one of the easiest places to start. Most people think white when they think mashed potatoes, but using sweet potatoes puts a great twist on the traditional. The pepper and salt help to balance out the sweetness. 
Pick up a baked sweet pota­to. 
Remove the potato skins. 
Add a pat of butter, a lot· of pepper and some salt. If you have a sweet tooth you can add a small dab of maple syrup too. 
Mash it up with a fork, like you were making regular mashed potatoes. Enjoy. 
Quick Tip 

Make chili cheese fries! Take some French fries and top them with chili from the soup area (make sure to get a ladle with as little broth as possible so that the fries don't get soggy) and cheese. You can top it with sour cream and scal­lions if you like as well. Delicious. Thanks to Charlie Vogelheim for this idea. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to fea­ture it! E-mail mfordice@nd. edu. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Th_ursday, February 12, 2009 
MLB 
Ex-girlfriend files $15 n1illion la-wsuit against Alon1ar 
Dall alleges that Alomar insisted on having unprotected sex even though he showed symptoms of HIV 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -An ex-girl­friend of Roberto Alomar filed an explosive lawsuit alleging the former baseball star insist­ed on unprotected sex for four years despite having AIDS. 
The lawsuit, filed Jan. 30 and transferred to U.S. District Court on Wednesday, contains accusations that could not be corroborated but portray Alomar as someone who demanded sex without a con­dom despite showing obvious signs of HIV. 
Ilya Dall is seeking at least $15 million in punitive dam­ages from the 41-year-old for­mer infielder. Alomar, who was once engaged to tennis star Mary Pierce, spent 17 years in the majors and was one of the game's great s~cond basemen. 
.Calls seeking comment to lawyers for Alomar and Dall were not immediately returned. Alomar lawyer Charles Bach told the New York Daily News the allega­tions are "frivolous and base­less." 
News of the lawsuit was "something out of the blue," 
Alomar's father, Sandy Alomar Sr., told El Nuevo Dia newspa­per in Puerto Rico. "We've never talked about something like this." 
Dall said the two began dat­ing in spring 2002 and had unprotected sex for the next four years. She said that on several occasions during that time, Alomar refused to get tested for HIV, despite severe fatigue, sores on his mouth and throat, a constant cough and an infection of the esopha­gus that is associated with AIDS. 
She said Alomar finally relented and tested positive for HIV in February 2006. 
Dall said she was angered by the disclosure and was tested herself; the result was nega­tive. She said follow-up exams determined that Alomar had full-blown AIDS. 
By then, she said Alomar had purple skin, was foaming at the mouth and was too sick to walk, forcing him to need a wheelchair to get around at an airport. 
Dall said the ordeal caused her severe emotional and men­tal distress and fear she may one day test positive for HIV herself. 
She called the conduct of Alomar "outrageous with wan­ton reckless disregard of the health, safety and well-being" of Dall. 
The lawsuit does not say why Dall continued to have unpro­tected sex with Alomar. Dall said the couple lived together until last year. 
Alomar was one of baseball's best players in the 1990s, making 12 straight All-Star appearances and winning two World Series with the Toronto Blue Jays. 
A career .300 hitter with 10 Gold Gloves, Alomar broke in with the San Diego Padres in 1988 and also played for the Baltimore Orioles, Cleveland Indians, New York Mets, Arizona Diamondbacks and Chicago White Sox. He was out of baseball by 2005. 
One of the most memorable moments of Alomar's career came in 1996, when he became enraged after a third strike and spit on umpire John Hirschbeck. He drew a five­game suspension that was later overturned. 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Panel to discuss harsher penalties for late hits, celebration 
Rules committee chairman Bellotti says that if changed, rules may not go into effect until 2011 season · 
formal proposal yet. thing. to have more leewaY. in issues that have dominated
Associated Press 
"We're going to poll the "That would be a huge ejecting players for flagrant rules meetings in recent 
INDIANAPOLIS -Oregon coaches and see if they sup­change, so we want to give personal fouls. Those calls years were not major topics coach Mike Bellotti wants port that (celebration it time to soak out there," would also trigger an auto­this week. college football to have change1," Bellotti said. said Rogers Redding, the matic review by conference "There was consensus tougher penalties against "They may not." SEC coordinator of officials. officials. approval by coaches on all unsportsmanlike conduct Bellotti said the change "We may change behaviors "We believe, in some levels on the clock discus­and dangerous hits. was not likely to take affect just because we're talking cases, that players must be sions," Bellotti said. "I think 
Now it's time to find out for at least two years, and about it." penalized more severely the clock rules worked out whether his coaching col­even if approved would like­Other proposals include a when the contact is clearly as we thought they would. It leagues agree with his sug­ly apply only to players who revised statement on sports­flagrant and dangerous," may have cost teams four or gestions. begin taunting opponents manship that could lead to Bellotti said. five plays per game, but 
Bellotti, the NCAA football before crossing the goal harsher penalties. Another change would that's what we were expect­rules committee chairman, line. The penalty would be The edited version would limit the protective area for ing." said Wednesday officials assessed from the spot of make coaches responsible punters. The committee also should eject more players the foul, like offensive hold­for player behavior before, That is a reaction to the approved a provision allow­for flagrant personal fouls, ing calls in college football. during and after games. If trendy rugby style kicks, a ing both teams to wear col­and agreed to seek input on Teams would not be penal­there are repeated infrac­tactic in which punters move ored jerseys in games when whether some celebration ized, Bellotti said, for a tions, a coach and school several steps before kicking there is a clear contrast in penalties should be live-ball group celebration after the could be disciplined by con­the ball on the run. If adopt­color and only if both teams penalties, which could result score because the NCAA ference officials. ed, opponents could not be agree. The agreement is also in losing points. wants to emphasize the None of the proposals will called for roughlng or run­subject to conference 
While the ejections will be team concept, not individu­become official until they ning into the kicker if the approval. a point of emphasis next als. are passed by the oversight punter is outside the tackle If there is not an agree­season, the celebration rec­Then again, the committee committee next month. box. ment, the visiting team ommendation is not even a may not have to do any-Bellotti also wants officials Game clock and time would wear white jerseys. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250­7653. 
613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2­bdrm houses. $350/person. Call 574-876-6333. 
Houses for the 09-10 school year. 
2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. 
Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com · 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. 
NEWLY REMODELED. 
CALL 574-234-2436 OR 
WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. 
Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­3537. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2009-10. 2-4 BEDROOMS, 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS, STAINLESS STEEL APPLIANCES. CALL BILL 574-532-1896. 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call 574­232-1400 or lease online www.foundr)!living.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NDs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safe­ty/assistance-fos-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http :1/osa. nd. edulhealth­safet):'/assault/ 
VALENTINES 

Czesc Cuppycake! Jeste w tobie zakochana. Powaznie. Besititos, N­N Tried to amend my carnivorous habits Made it nearly 70 days Losin' weight without speed, eatin' sunflower seeds Drinkin' lots of carrot juice and soakin' up the rays 
But at night I had these wonderful dreams Some kind of sensuous treat Not zucchini, fettucini or Bulgar wheat But a big warm bun and a huge hunk of meat 
Cheeseburger in Paradise! 
Regina, I will give you $3 if you hand this to me. 

team·  poi!Jts  
1  Vrg lnla {11)  333  
2  Syracuse (6}  32~  
3  Maryland  300  
4  Johns Hopkins  284  
5  North Carolina  255  
6  cornell  253  
7  Duke  228  
8  Georgetown  .200.  
9 10  Navy NOmE DAME  >190 ... 147  
10  UMBC  147  
12  Princeton  137  




OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 12, 2009 CoMPilED FROM THE OssERVEits WIRE SERVICES page-13 
AP Jets quarterback Brett Favre informed the team Wednesday that he would retire from football after 18 seasons. Last March, Favre announced his retirement after 17 seasons with the Packers before eventually returning. 
Favre informs Jets he's retiring 
NCAA Men's Basketball APTop 25 

t&am pomt$:.. 

1 Connecticut (67) 1.795. 2 Oklahoma (3) 1.no 3 North Carolina (%) .. ·1,672 21-2 4 Pittsburgh 1,583 21-2 5 Louisville 1,423 18:-4 6 Duke 1,350 28-3 7 Wake Forest 1,24? 
18·3 8 Memphis 1,237••• 28-3 9 Michigan State 1,214 19-4 1 0 Marquette 1,137 . 28-3 11 UCLA 1A31 19-4 12 Clemson 1;097 1s:..a 13 Villanova 989 1S:..4 14 Xavier 893 20·3 15 Butler 762 21-2 
1Q:..4>.

16 Kansas 751 17 Missouri 395 •>·28-4 18 Arizona State 389 18:-5 19 Gonzaga 361 :·· 20 Purdue 353 17·6 21 Utah State 317 234 22 Illinois 1S:..5
NCAA Men's· Basketball 
~':J'1 ·. =::·:=:::::::;:=:~:::·: ... ·
USA lio.day...... ..·.· ··O·.··P·.··.·.·.·.·......:liGj·.···.. ··S·····.·•..... 
team.. 
1 2 3 4 5 
fi 
7 
a 
9 10 11 
12 13 14 15 
16 17 18 19 
20 21 
22 
23 24 25 

Men's Lacrosse Pre=sealon. Media Poll··· 
around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
No. 6 UCLA at No. 18 Ariona State 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Boston at Dallas 
9:30 p.m., TNT 
NFL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Brett Favre's done with football-again. 
The 39-year-old quarter­back called the New York Jets on Wednesday morning to say he's retiring after 18 seasons, ending a record-setting career in which he became one of the NFL's all-time greats. 
"He felt he had given us everything he had," general manager Mike Tannenbaum said, "and it was time for him to move on." 
Favre, who retired last March only to return with the Jets, kept this goodbye simple -no tearful farewell or jam­packed news conferenr,e. 
His decision came six weeks after his only season with the 
IN BRIEF Tejada ~nters. guilty plea 
on stermd pel)ury charges 
WASHINGTON -Dressed in a defen­dant's dark suit instead of an All-Star's crisp uniform, Miguel Tejada became the first high-profile player convicted of a crime stemming from baseball's steroids era, pleading guilty Wednesday in federal court to misleading Congress about the use of performance-enhanc­ing drugs. 
Under a plea agreement with the same prosecutors pursuing a perjury indictment against Roger Clemens, Tejada admitted he withheld informa­tion about an ex-teammate's use of steroids and human growth hormone when questioned by a House commit­tee's investigators in August 2005. 
Tejada -the 2002 American League MVP with the Oakland Athletics and a five-time All-Star shortstop now with the Houston Astros -also acknowledged he bought HGH while playing for the A's, but said he threw the drugs away without using them. Prosecutors said they have no evidence to contradict that. 
Jets ended in disappointment as New York failed to make the playoffs. In an e-mail to ESPN, Favre said he had no regrets about finishing his career in New York and praised Tannenbaum, owner Woody Johnson and fired coach Eric Mangini. 
"My time with the Jets was short, but I'm honored to be given that chance," Favre wrote in the e-mail. 
If this is indeed it for Favre, he leaves the game with a slew of records, including career touchdown passes (464), completions (5,720), yards passing (65,127), regu­lar-season victories (169) and interceptions (310). 
"With Brett, there was always the possibility that he 
Beckham ties record for 
most match apperances 
EVILLE, Spain -David Beckham has equaled Bobby Moore's record for most appearances by an England player other than a goal­keeper. 
Beckham replaced Stewart Downing in the 46th minute of an exhibition game in Spain on Tuesday. That gave him 108 appearances for his country, second only to goalkeeper Peter Shilton's 125. 
The 33-year-old midfielder moved from the Los Angeles Galaxy to AC Milan on loan in January. He want­ed to stay in shape in hopes of win­ning a spot on the national team. 
The loan expires March 8 but Beckham hopes for a permanent transfer. He is looking to improve his chances of playing at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa if England qualifies. Major League Soccer set a Friday deadline for an agreement with A,C Milan. 
wouldn't play the second year," Johnson said. "We were hoping to get one good year out of Brett Favre. We picked him based on, in our opinion, his giving us the best chance to win last season. We were dis­appointed not to have made the Super Bowl, but we did some very good things with Brett." 
And the team doesn't expect Favre, acquired by New York last August after a bitter breakup with Green Bay, to change his mind. 
"He did not ask to be released," Tannenbaum said. "Everything he said was, he is done playing football. We have our plan according to that, and we're going to move for­ward." 
Armstrong's personal dru~ 
test plan falls througli 
DENVER -Lance Armstrong scrapped his much-publicized plan to set up an independent drug-test­ing program on Wednesday because of high costs and nearly impossible logistics. 
When Armstrong announced his comeback last year, the seven-time Tour de France winner said he wanted to prove he was clean, and was teaming with anti-doping expert Don Catlin, who would test him and post the results online. 
But Catlin told The Associated Press that after months of negotia­tions, both sides realized the pro­gram wasn't workable this year. 
"It was going to be difficult," Catlin said. "There were so many issues in trying to get this going ­legal issues, financial issues, and we sort of tried every which way. Finally, it made more sense to put it aside for the moment and maybe take it up at another time." 
Running back Thomas Jones and safety Kerry Rhodes were critical after the season of Favre and his per­formance. The Jets went from 8-3 to missing the playoffs. Favre threw nine interceptions as the Jets went 1-4 down the stretch, and a torn right biceps might have contributed. 
Still, Favre had nothing but positive things to say about his Jets experience. 
"Mike and Woody, as well as the entire organization, have been nothing short of out­standing," Favre said in thee­maiL "My teammates ­Thomas (Jones) and Kerry (Rhodes) included -were a pleasure to play with. Eric could not have been any bet­ter. I ellioyed playing for him." 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 12, 2009 
Loss 
continued from page 20 
used to seeing," Louisville coach Jeff Walz said. "She occupies so many people because she can score so quick. And she found a way to get to the free throw line and hits three big threes." 
To get to the charity stripe, McCoughtry heaved a despera­tion shot with one second remaining on the shot clock and was fouled by Irish point guard Melissa Lechlitner. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw was unsure about whether a foul was the correct call. 
"I didn't [think it was a foul], but I'm sitting on the Notre Dame side [of the court]," McGraw said. "It thought it was all-ball. And it was kind of not really even a shot. She barely had control when she shot it, so I thought maybe we'd get lucky there and go get the rebound." 
But regardless of whether or not the foul was legitimate, McGraw said that was the most important moment of the game. 
"That was key, that put it to a two-possesion game," McGraw said. "That really hurt us." 
McCoughtry was a little more confident that the officials made the correct decision. 
"I just felt her swat down on me," she said. " ... I always feel like I am fouled." 
McCoughtry finished the game with 20 points and 11 rebounds, one of two Cardinals with double-doubles against Notre Dame. The other, for­ward Candyce Bingham, had 21 points and 12 rebounds. 
McGraw said she was disap­pointed that her team could not complete a comeback late in the game. 
"I thought we did some good things to get it close, and then we turned it over or we would just make a critical mistake at the wrong time." 
Even more important for the Louisville effort was McCoughtry's defense. The Cardinals forward was the leader of the Louisville press, and provided a constant force in the half-court defense, nab-
Adrian 
continued from page 20 
need help from Hope in order to win the MIAA regular sea­son championship, they also need to make sure they don't slip up when they travel to Albion this Saturday. Earlier bing eight steals in the win. 
. "She's really athletic but you can't let it get to you, and I think she got a couple of easy steals today, too, because we weren't taking care of the ball," Irish guard Ashley Barlow said. 
McGraw said McCoughtry is one of best anticipators in the country in the passing lanes. 
"It's hard to prepare [for playing McCoughtry] because she's everywhere defensively and she plays the passing lane so well. We were trying not to throw it near her and we didn't execute that very well," McGraw said. 
Earlier in the second half the Irish had a chance to pull ahead of Louisville. Notre Dame fell behind by 10 points going into halftime, but a 13-4 run capped by a Barlow layup brought the score to 42-41 Louisville. Cardinals forward Keisha Hines responded 10 seconds later with a layup of her own, sparking a 13-0 run. The Irish did not score again until freshman guard Natalie Novosel made a layup with 
5:20 later. 
"There were a few turnovers and layups in there and that just hurt us. We just didn't han­dle the press well, missed some shots, they got some easy ones," McGraw said. "I thought they beat our zone inside a lot, which was disappointing." 
In the loss, the Irish had three players score in double figures: forward Becca Bruszewski (18). Natalie Novosel (17) and Barlow (16). 
Note: 
+When Irish guard Ashley Barlow sank a free throw with 3 7 seconds left to make the score 66-63, she had also just scored her l,OOOth career point at Notre Dame. 
"I think in the junior year, it's an outstanding accomplish­ment and Ashley has always been an incredibly hard-work­er," McGraw said. "She's always inside trying to help the team win in any way she can; she's unselfish. So it's a great accomplishment for her." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Associated Press 

DURHAM, N.C. -Ty Lawson 
helped Tyler Hansbrough 
make it four in a row at 
Cameron Indoor Stadium, 
while keeping himself perfect 
against North Carolina's most 
despised rival. 

Lawson scored 21 of his 25 
points in the second half, and 
No. 3 North Carolina rallied 
past No. 6 Duke 101-87 on 
Wednesday night. 

Hansbrough scored 17 points -and hit another late 3-point­er -for the Tar Heels (22-2, 8-2). who became the first .team in nine seasons to hit 
triple digits against Duke. 

They came on strong down 
the stretch, using late runs of 
2 5-11 and 14-0 to first take the 
lead for good and then stretch 
it to 17. In the process, they 
snapped the Blue Devils' 14­
game home court winning 
streak while claiming first 
place in the Atlantic Coast 
Conference standings. 

Wayne Ellington and Danny 
Green added 15 points apiece. 
Green and Hansbrough joined 
former Wake Forest standouts 
Tim Duncan and Rusty LaRue 
as the only players to beat 
Mike Krzyzewski four straight 
times on the Cameron court 
that now bears his name. 

Kyle Singler scored 22 points 
and Jon Scheyer added 20 to 
lead Duke (20-4, 7 -3), which 
kept up with the uptempo Tar 
Heels for about 30 minutes 
before spiraling to its fifth loss 
in six meetings with its hated 
rival located 8 miles down 
Tobacco Road. 

Gerald Henderson finished 
with 17 points -but was just 
1-for 9 in the second half for 
the Blue Devils, and that's 
when they let this one get 
away. 

Duke led 56-48 in the early 
moments of the half before 
North Carolina took command, 
with Hansbrough hitting a 
short jumper with just under 
18 minutes remaining. That 
started the Lawson-led 25-11 
burst in which the efficient Tar 
Heels took the lead for good, 
coming away with points on 12 
of 15 trips downcourt. 

Then, Lawson gave North 
Carolina all the separation it 
needed a short while later, 
when he scored nine of the 12 
straight points reeled off by the 
Tar Heels. His three-point play 
with 3:42 remaining put them 
up 88-71. 

That came two possessions 
after Hansbrough pulled up 
over David McClure and 
knocked down a 3-pointer; 
three seasons ago, Hansbrough 
hit a 3 at Cameron that he still 
insists is his favorite shot. 

That put the Tar Heels well 
on their way to their first 100­
point performance in the rival­
ry since their thrilling double­
1995, and made them the first 
visiting team to win here since 
they did it last March. 

Nolan Smith added 11 points 
for Duke, which allowed 100 
points for the first time since a 
109-100 victory over Virginia 
in January 2000. 

But for a while, it looked like 
the Blue Devils might be the 
first team to 100. 

Duke shot 62 percent while 
coming on strong late during a 
first half that was rather mis­
erable for the Tar Heels' top 
three players. Hansbrough, 
Lawson and Ellington were a 
combined 3-for-12 from the 
field, and Hansbrough, saddled with two fouls, was benched for the final 4:11. 
Duke used a 22-5 run in which they hit 9-of-11 shots over a 5 1/2-minute span late in the first half -a run capped by Singler's baseline jumper with 4:55 remaining­to take a 40-34 lead. 
The Blue Devils held North Carolina to two field goals over the half's final 7 1/2 minutes, then pushed their lead to 50­41 on Scheyer's free throw with 46.4 seconds left -the first time the Tar Heels allowed a team to score 50 in a half since December. 
But that was well before they got back to the fast tempo that helped them take an early dou­ble-figure lead. North Carolina jumped out to a 20-10 lead roughly 5 1/2 minutes in after some remarkably efficient play in which it scored on 10 of 11 possessions. 
Connecticut 63, Syracuse 49 
STORRS, Conn. -Jim Calhoun and Jim Boeheim have both coached for more than three decades and the battles between their teams have created one of college basketball's top rivalries. 
The two were in total agree­ment after Calhoun's top­ranked Connecticut Huskies won their 12th straight game, 63-49 over Boeheim's 23rd­ranked Syracuse Orange on Wednesday night: Hasheem Thabeet is one of the best defensive big men to play in the Big East. 
The 7-foot-3 Thabeet had eight points, 16 rebounds and seven blocks and affected even more shots as the Huskies sent the Orange to their fifth loss in six games. 
"We're not the best offensive team in the league but we're a pretty good defensive team with Hasheem in the middle," Calhoun said. "He affected 20 penetrations in the lane. Don't get caught up in stats with him, even as good as they are, because he is one of the most amazing forces in basketball in America." 
Boeheim called Thabeet a "tremendous defensive player." 
''I've said it before and I still believe he's the best we've had in this league. We're an inside this season, Albion snapped the Belles' six-game confer­ence win streak, so Saint Mary's will be looking to reverse fortune this time around as the team still has a shot at first place in the con­ference. 

ContactRobert Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Heels, Huskies beat rivals 
tea,m and takes that away from you." 
The Orange came in averag­ing 80 points per game, sec­ond-best in the league. 
"Holding them to 49, that was the most impressive thing to me," said A.J. Price, who had 17 points for the Huskies (23-1, 11-1 Big East), who have won three games since assuming the No. 1 spot in The Associated Press' poll last week 
They overcame a sloppy first half by cutting down the turnovers and hitting 3-point­ers, pulling away with a 12-0 run that gave Connecticut a 56-40 lead midway through the second half. 
The Huskies had to play almost the entire game without second-leading scorer Jerome Dyson who injured his knee just over 4 minutes in and did­n't return. 
~son banged knees with a Syracuse player as he fought through a screen with 15:44 to play in the first half and remained on the court for sev­eral minutes before being helped to the locker room by two teammates. Dyson, who averages 13.7 points, never returned to the game. School officials said he would be taken for an MRI and X-rays on Thursday but that there was no structural damage, just a severely bruised right knee. 
Jonny Flynn had 16 points for Syracuse (18-7, 6-6), which was ranked as high as No. 8 before the skid that may now see the Orange drap out of the national rankings. 
"We had some really good opportunities early and didn't take advantage of them," Boeheim said. "That first half we played as good as we are capable of defensively but we just couldn't do anything offen­sively and he had a lot to do with that." 
Connecticut managed to take a 30-27 halftime lead despite committing 14 turnovers ­two more than its season aver­age for a game -and going 2­for-8 from 3-point range. 
The Huskies had six turnovers in the second half and they hit three of their first attempts from 3-point range, the last of those by Craig Austrie during the big run. 

Thursday, February 12, 2009 The Observer +PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 12, 2009 

amongst ourselves, and it helps 
can take up to eight weeks. making sure I won't get us work even harder." 
Time will telL" hurt worse," Hanson said. "I
Injuries

Cardinals 
For players like Nash, the 
The injury may remind can play through the pain, move represents an opportunity 
continued from page 20 some Irish fans of when but I don't want to be put incontinued from page 20 
-his best shot at playing time 
Erik Condra was lost for the a situation where I could ets for the opposition. yet this season. 
down in the third period of season in the second round possibly get hurt worse." "When [bad possessions] get "We're all hungry now," Nash 
Notre Dame's eventual 4-3 of least year's CCI-lA play­Jackson was more blunt ingrained into a game, it kind of said. "It's really a wake-up call 
win. While pursuing a loos1-1 offs. Thang said he talked to with his assessment. snowballs on you and teams get for all of us. Every day in prac­
puck along the boards, Condra about what it was ''I'm not going to play him easy buckets," Hillesland said. tice we're really going to com­
Thang was hit by a like to miss significant time if he's in any risk," he said. "Before you know it, they're put­pete against one another 
Buckeyes player and went during the final stretch of As far as lineup adjust­ting up 90 on you." because we know there are 
down awkwardly. the season, but that he is ments go, Jackson said that During their current seven­spots open. We're all looking to 
"It was just a l'luke deal," more than confident in his freshman Patrick Gaul, who game losing streak, Notre Dame take advantage." 
he said. "I was battling for teammates' ability to make played Saturday in Thang has given up an average of 85 As of Tuesday's practice, Brey 
a puck along the boards. I up for his absence. and Hanson's absence, will points per game. The Irish have still hadn't declared starters for 
got hit on my side, my leg Jackson also said players definitely see ice time this allowed their opponents to crack tonight's game. 
kind of buckled, and it bent such as Justin White and weekend, but that a second the 90-point plateau three times With an uncertain starting 
in ways it wasn't supposed Dan Kissel will have to step substitute won't be deter­over the stretch. lineup and a laundry list of 
to go." up their offensive produc­mined until an official deci­The team's all-around strug­improvements on both offense 
Initially, Notre Dame tion in Thang's absence. sion is made on Hanson's gles have caused Brey to and defense, things are in flux 
coach Jeff Jackson said he "Guys like Kissel and status. increasingly reevaluate who gets for Notre Dame, but Nash knows 
thought Thang, who had to White are just going to have "You don't replace guys the majority of playing time. At the best way to put an end to the 
be helped off the ice by the to elevate their games," like that," Jackson said. the beginning of the season, cycle. 
Irish training staff', had bro­Jackson said. "And con­"You just make sure that Brey almost exclusively used a "Right now, we just need to get 
ken his leg or blown out his tribute not just defensively, guys who step in there con­seven-man rotation. A few a win," he said. "Then everybody 
knee. but offensively as well." tribute." games into the losing streak, will be off our back with the 
"If that's a kid that doesn't Their impacts could be Junior Christiaan Minella Brey tinkered with the starting ofl'ense and everything." 
have the kind of physical even more important this and senior Garrett Regan lineup and began giving Exactly one month ago, 
attributes that Hyan has, weekend if Hanson, who will see more action on the increased playing time to sopho­Louisville beat the Irish 87-73 at 
that's a broken leg," leads the team with 14 power play while Thang and mores Tyrone Nash and Carleton Freedom Hall in what was the 
Jackson said. goals, is forced to sit as Hanson are out. Scott. beginning of Notre Dame's 
Thang, who has scored well. The senior center was "We've bragged about our After the Irish hit rock bottom seven-game losing streak. The 
nine goals this season, sat hit hard twice at different depth all year long," last Saturday in Pauley Pavilion, Cardinals needed overtime to 
out of Sunday's game points Friday night, but Jackson said. "Now it's Brey took his most drastic meas­dispatch the Irish but had little 
against Ohio State for the don't expeet him to divulge going to show up even ure yet by declaring that all posi­trouble in the extra period. The 
first time in his collegiate any details. more." tions are now subject to open Irish managed just two points 
career. The Edina, Minn., "I remember bits and competition. The move got the after regulation as the home 
native said this is the first pieces," Hanson said. "But Note: attention of his players. team ran them ofT the court. 
significant injury of his to be honest I don't really +Notre Dame senior cen­"Nobody took it as offense," 
hockey career. have a recollection of what ter Erik Condra and senior guard Tory Jackson said. "We Contact Greg Arbogast at 
"It's going to be weird," happened. I just know I got goalie Jordan Pearce· were need it. There's a competition garbogas@nd.edu 
h11 said. "It's tough not hit twice pretty hard." named finalists for the being able to come to the After skating Wednesday Lowe's Senior CLASS Award rink and skate, but hopeful­morning, Hanson said his Wednesday. They are among 
we did against both those teams. 
ly I'll be able to get back head felt fine, but his shoul­10 Div. I hockey players to So I think we're improving," 
into the lineup as soon as der was still a little sore. make the cut for the honor,
Size 
possible." "We'll see how practice which recognizes success on But the Irish have a long way 
McGraw said. 
The estimated recovery goes !Thursday] and make a the ice, as well as achieve­continued from page 20 
window places Thang's decision about Friday," he ments in the classroom and to not notice the wingspan and ic level of McCoughtry and 
to go before they're at the athlet­
return at some point during said. community. Fans can vote sheer athleticism advantages Louisville. And it's not even about 
the CCHA playoffs. While he Jackson and Hanson both for the winner at most Big East teams seem to height. I'd put my money any 
said he would obviously like said the deciding factor as www. seniorclassaward.com, hold over the Irish. day on a boxing match featuring 
to return then, he has to to whether Hanson plays and the winner will be And that's been a problem all Deseree Byrd, who's only 5-foot­
take his rehab one step at a against the Wildcats is announced at the 2009 season. Falling to both 9, Lechlitner and Ashley Barlow. 
time. whether or not he could Frozen Four in Washington, Pittsburgh and Rutgers within Teams as athletic as Louisville 
"These things are really possibly suffer further D.C. the past month, it looked like utilize the press and don't let up. 
funny," he said. "For some injury. Notre Dame might not be able to It doesn't help that McCoughtry is 
people you can heal pretty "It's going to be a matter Contact Sam Werner at play with the big kids on the one of the best pass readers in 
fast, but for some people it of seeing how it feels and swerner@nd.edu playground. the country and grabbed eight Irish coach Muffet McGraw steals. said: "Coming out of the Pitt and "McCoughtry with the steals, Rutgers games we were wor­she kind of wreaked havoc on ried." us," McGraw said. And rightfully so. Even in a 62-But what the Irish lack in 59 win over DePaul Sunday height seems to be becoming less afternoon, Notre Dame looked and less of an issue. That was like it might not have the size to clear last night. Even when fight far into the postseason. Louisville went on a 13-point And when Louisville showed up run, Notre Dame fought back. last night, I'm sure some of those Freshman Natalie Novosel had questions began racing through two offensive rebounds that she Irish fans' heads again. Just converted into baskets in a cru­glancing at All-American for­cial three minutes midway ward Angel McCoughtry -with through the second half. Barlow biceps any college age male and Erica Solomon had five would be jealous of-likely sent ofl'ensive boards apiece. The shivers down many spines. Irish can get tough, but so can But this time the Irish stood a their opponents. little taller and a little bigger, just "We've got to be tougher than not quite enough. And the teams we play," Cardinals Louisville's advantage in size coach JeffWalz said. 
•showed itself on the boards. And they were tougher than Louisville had the Irish beat 26-the Irish. Even if it was by a 21 in defensive rebounds. small margin, it was enough for Perhaps the most surprising side a win. That's not to say the physi­of the Irish defense came from cal side of the Irish game isn't guard Melissa Lechlitner who, there, it could just use a little standing at only 5-foot-7, fme-tuning. A protein-carb shake grabbed the most defensive here and there might not hurt boards for the Irish with five. either. And that's certainly a sign that the Irish have learned from their The views expressed in this col­past. umn are those of the author and 
"They're incredibly athletic, not necessarily those of The we've seen a lot of that in the Big Observer. East -Rutgers, Pitt -and I Contact Deirdre Krasula at thought we played better than dkrasula@nd. edu 


Thursday, February 12, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Park leads Irish squad to twelfth-place finish 
Sophomore finishes in four-way tie for 20th 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame finished 12th at the Northrop Grumman Regional in a field full of top-ranked teams in Palos Verdes, Calif. 
No. 3 Arizona State came into the day leading the field, and combined for a 15-over par total to hold on for the win. Sundevils golfer Juliana Murcia turned in yet another solid performance, shooting 2-over par to bring her total for the tournament to a l-over 214,· eight strokes ahead of second­place finisher Carlota Ciganda, also of Arizona State. 
After Wednesday's final round, the Irish came out in 12th place, with a .104-over par 956. Leading the Irish for the third day was sopho­more All-American So-Hyun Park, who finished in a four­way tie for 20th place. She turned in a final-round 6­over 77, finishing 20-over for the three rounds. 
Freshman Becca Huffer finished behind Park in a tie 
for 41st. Her 6-over per­formance was her best of the tournament and brought her stroke total to 237, 24­over par, 
Rounding out the squad were the solid performances from Junior Annie Brophy, senior captain Lisa Maunu and sophomore Katie Conway. Brophy shot a 1­over par for the day, the best performance by an Irish golfer at the tourna­ment, and finished tied for 44th place at 240 strokes. 
Maunu's 8-over final­round score of 79 brought her to a to taI of 2 4 7 , 3 4 strokes over par for all three rounds, causing her to drop seven places down to 65th in the field. Conway capped off the Irish with her own 8-over performance on the day. She finished in 73rd place, shooting 37-over par on a 250-stroke effort. 
The Irish will now have a long break before traveling to Baton Rouge, La., for the Cleveland/LSU Classic on March 13th. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 12, 2009 
Weighting it out 
Weeks before the opening bell sounds this Sunday, boxers began their fight to get in shape. This week is crunch time for the fighters working to cut weight and make their final preparations. Senior Matt Posluszny, above, knows the ropes after three years in the Bouts. He said his final week is about mentally preparing, but that didnJ keep him from bundling up to break a good sweat. Knott junior Adam Steinbach, below, will make his boxing debut Sunday night. Steinbach has been training since last May and has !ost over 30 pounds in the process. After two final days of pushing himself to the limit, he tipped the scales at 160 pounds Tuesday night, his lightest since junior high. -Photos by Ian Gavlick 
Thursday, February 12, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Duke's quarters? Weakens 37 Bit of advice 6 Chink in the from a tennis 
armor. say coach? 10 Book after Joel 41 Bridge supports 14 The Sorbonne;-42 Work on the 
for one street 15Jot 43 Be prostrate 1611's In a pickle 44 Bad-mouth 17 Supermodels? 45 Monel's "Done!" 19Jus! 46 Nabors role 20 Continued 47 45s from Count 
drama Basie and Benny 21 caboose. e.g. Goodman? 23 Make one to 51_trick 
one, perhaps 
52 Monet work 24 One who fattens 
53 Congregation 

up cattle? 
member 28Raz:z 
57 Final_ 31 Jot 
·59 From gentle to 32 Flapper steep for some accessory playground 33 Legal org. equipment? 34 Namia's Asian, 62Move;in 
e.g. Realtor-speak 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
63 Pounds, Informally 
64Spasm 65 Run in place 66 Pupil ot Miss 
Crump, on TV 67 Much-debated school subject. for short 
Down 
Come clean. with ~up• 
2 Hurt 3 One can be shown to you 4 Nancy's aunt in Nancy Drew 
mysteries 5 Go after 6 Working out just 
fine? 7 Mauna_ 8 Still 
9 "That._so 
bad~ 
10 Fuss 11 Sage and thyme are in it 12 N.EL Hall-of· Farner Matson 
13 More devious 18 Not too quick 22 "Porgy" novelist 
_Heyward 
25 Chinese dynasty lasting eight centuries 
26 Cartel leader 27 Kids' snow 
construction 28 See 45·Down 29 Disbeliever's 
comment 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Joe D!l'lelro  
30 Stripped  45 Standard 28­ 50 Bridge positions  
34 ·come on!"  Down purchase  54 Lasl name in  
35Coupe_  46 The id is in it  comedy  
36Potter's purchase  47 Sci-fi novelist _s. Tepper  55 Healing balm 56 Exigency  
38 Target for Dracula 39 The Jets, e.g.  48 Uke some floors and legs 49 R&B singer with the hit "Thong  58 Curly whacker 60 Only Super Bowl won by the Jets  
40 Once called  Song"  61 34th U.S, pres.  

For answers, cail1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, HlOQ-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best ol Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS, AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.comJmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past pw:z!es, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year}. Share tips: nytimes,comlwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comJiearninglxwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEIIRI'flFS UORN ON UUS DAY: Kdly R<>wklnd. ~8: Mik~ Sllin<>da. :•2: knni· kr Anhlon, 40: Sheryl Crow, 4'1 
Uappy llirlloday: There is so <nlldl hidd~" that moM br brought <>ul into the open fu,.fi>r<' Y<W Gin Ill,""¢ (>1\. Yml h;aV<~ tll~ l""'"f, !h<· <kdk:ltion ;Uid tlw h,·;ut mld '""l to ... giv(! ~your aU. Yvu:ruut.nhe-N ~m: ~~ 1~}, 13~16.. :)5. 38,-41 
ARIES (March 21 -Aprill9!: An innovaliw apf>roa<·h wlife and fricn.hhip< will 'P'"" thing;< "I'· Set the paC<' :mtl )"<>til' (•Wit mle• and >·<>u wll! rmtl the happinc<.< you"~ »e~rching i\~t. Sw;d \If' t\or wh:tt'you w:.o.t and ·~~kyvm mmd. *** 
lAt'RtiS (.\prillll.\'fay 21)): lt m~y "'em:<> if ~wryonc b wurking <~gain't y<>o lmt,as long m;: yt-'U kt--cp mtwit~g forward+ you ·~'-··ill attompihh what you m:."ed to do. Avoid meddling and mNidlel'li :•nd cwtything else will fall imn !>lwc. ***** 
GEMlNf {May 21-June l!ll: NNhing i•likdy !<>go according to plan but y>:>U wiJl act f••t •nd cf(kienlly. Emotion• wHI t~-et you into trouhk, •o avoid kHing pe<>pk •et you t.>lf. Ad on facts. nnt p<'l"<<>ttal kdittgJ<. ** 
CANClm. (Jm•~ ll-July Z2l: The wbks ill'-' tuming :~~td it's time f<>t you to mak~ some 
•Jju•tmen!$10 your living ~m>ngemenl•. Onre you!<.'<:'! comi(>rtahk With the way things operate. you will caw your <tre-'S and diminak the ro•<ibility <>f letting thing' spin <>ut ofcontroL**** 
LFO !july :B-A••l!· 21!: T:>kt' it ea&~'· rd;~~ iul<lst<l)' calm. Aggres.in· bdoa\·i<>r will fe.ad ((t trmxf?k· <lt cauSt" s<,:meonc: to phtv with '~.tour emotions, Overdoing it in anv rrumtwr wit! ~"'""' ba~k to haunt you. i: ** ' ' 
VI.RHO (Aug. 2.\·S~pl. Zl\: 'hllk In JX'<">pk wh<.> ~an help and enmurc1ge you. A link exll'it work will pay off but ,Ion't j<'"J'i>tdi"' your he;iltl:t by overd<,ing it. A ch~"!l" <>f plam will !'>'SUI! in a lwttcr<:<l!Ut<'Cii<>n with smne<:>ne in whom you are iulerestcd. *** 
LIURA tS.Opl. 2."-0d. ZZl: Not ew:rythimt i~ II$ it il!"fl":tl>;. S<.>me<me. h Wl>rkin~< "gain•t }'OU. ~() takt: Clttl'il preGtlHiOnl>. lmi11CCtV. geSIUfCS of friendliness <.>r S<)tneOtW offering you too good a deal ~hould bl, h:1ndled with care. *** 
SCORPIO !Oct. 2.\·Nuv, 21): Stop standing ~1ill w<riting for ..:uneon.-d"" to pid. up tbc sh~k or ohow Y•Jll th~ w~y. Ynu ba~te l<.> be iu th~ lead if y<Ju wam u' be ttK'<'<.'"~ful. Yo11r willingness to take a chruKe ur tu try •mnething new or different will set Y•ln apart. 
**** 

SAGITTAlUVS(Nov.Zl·D«, :U.i: Weigh Uw f'l'"""dc<)ll' ""f<>re you mak<' a !if~· 
o~lkring d<Whi<m, Ch,mN• are ~O<XI ih~t tbe dyn;~nli<'s of wbal~,·~'f is !l<)illg <>n ar<>lmd }'<.>ll are dt"n!?ing '"" '"l;idly I<> m;ok,, it J!<><>d ""''""'"'""'·You are betkr oil d(>JIIg as <ii· reckd and playing it safe. ** 
CAl'IUCORN (U.,..,, 12-,lan. 19): Kt'<'p your wit• ah<JUI y<>u, With so much t<>j!lggk. ynu mctst keep a ckat l~<oad awll:>c •·eady "' tak<> a.;ti<m immcdiatdy, St.>)· ill tll~ loop at all time>. Oreal<>< pr<>.fib >llld >td•••m~ement can be yours. ***** 
AQVARWS (jan. W-F~b, 1!1): !Jon't giv~ in t<> what other> waut if il isn't what you w<ml. Be honc•t ahvit! )'(>l.tt inte.uti<.>n.s. Don't let ~onfmion cau'~ you t<> stand still when !l~e ;mswu h w simply f<>ll<>w yvur bcarL *** 
PI:SCE..<; {Feb. i'.I·March 20J: Av<>ld putting too many demands on (lther>. y,.,., will get the m<>•t fnr y<>ur !lil.1l1<-'Y if Y<>U dt> the W<>rk y\lur"'ll with<1ut bcmg dependent on auy-t.>ne ... Y<.ru ~'lrt ~·o-rt tiu-:tJti;~dl an)' t:trobkUl'* you have by taking a M.~riott.~ lm_>.k at how dwy *!arkd. ** * 
mrtbdnJ fiaby: You are pnwerfuL dedic•tod und" re(omwr, You are l'Crious, compru;· sio!lllte and rdentle» in ynur ><!&<:h f<>r jm;ti<X and bl,ncfidal ch;mgc. Y"u arc a g.r<'.at friend. comp.ani<>n a11d le•l<k'f, 
Eug~)-nia's \~~-1-.~< :ritt=-J.; r>"Ug~wiah~·-~f .<'om far ('t>Jifidt'ntiu! con.~tsitfrtirms, my~JN'f.t~~~.cmm'm.tgenktlttHf'(:Jr f)(~NfiU\. blo,9,. 4:~trof¥fh~tce.t:omfor fim 

WWW.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
PATRICK GARTLAND 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I 


I I 
<.t2008 Tribuoo Media Services, Inc. 
si~~n 
I


Yesterday's •I Jumbles: Answer: 

MOTIF 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME ·by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

Irs all mine as far as the~ can see 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) TANGY IMBUED SATIRE 

When she refused to pay for her portrait, he turned into a -"MAO" ARTIST 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $6$ for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, February 12, 2009 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Louisville picks up win at Joyce Center 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Despite giving up a 13-0 run, having two Louisville players register double-doubles, and shooting only 37.9 percent from the floor, No. 22 Notre Dame still had a chance to win at the end of Wednesday night's game. Angel McCoughtry made sure they didn't. 
The 6-foot-1 Louisville senior forward nailed three free throws with 1:16 remaining in the game to push the score to 66-61, which all but crushed any attempt at an Irish come­back. The No. 12 Cardinals went on to win 71-65. 
"This is the Angel that I'm 
see LOSS/page 14 

House of Cards 

Team must toughen up in coming gan1es 
Louisville came into the Joyce Center looking to knock the Irish around, and well, can you blame them? Notre Dame hasn't exactly made a name for itself as one of the more physical teams in the Big East. 
Just take a look at the Irish roster and you'll see that jun­ior center Erica Williamson is the tallest they've got, measuring at 6-foot-4. And even just watching Notre Dame next to another team during the national anthem, you'd have to be blind 

see SIZE/page 16 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish look to dig themselves out of hole against Cardinals 
As the Irish prepare to face drawn on their freshman year "The most frustrating thing for make you pay for it." 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
that same Louisville program and have said we're going to be me is we're not playing the way Those poor possessions have Sports Writer 
tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce really good captains through we know how to play," Hillesland not only caused the Irish to shoot 
Center, they find themselves in this," Irish coach Mike Brey said. said. "We're playing against too an uncharacteristic 41.5 percent 
Notre Dame's four senior cap­the midst of an arguably more "[They] remember as freshmen good competition to have two from the field in Big East games, tains are no strangers to adversi­brutal stretch, a stretch in which that leadership was the key." good possessions then come but also are hurting the team on ty. During their freshmen season, the team has lost seven consec­There's no denying that Notre down and take a quick shot that the defensive end of the court. Kyle McAlarney, Ryan Ayers, utive games by an average of Dame needs good leadership leads to a transition opportunity One only needs to remember the Zach Hillesland and Luke Zeller just about 14 points per contest. now as the team continues to for these talented teams. Josh Shipp ESPN alley-oop slam endured a 1-8 start in Big East Those four captains know it's up deal with issues on both the "When you get out of character from last Saturday to see how a play, bottoming out after an to them to prevent a sinking sea­offensive and defensive ends of and take bad shots, you try to do turnover can lead to easy buck-overtime loss to Louisville on son from becoming a total wash. the floor. On the offensive end, too much and you try to go out of Feb. 4. "I think our seniors have the key term is efliciency. your comfort zone, and teams see CARDINALS/page 16 
HOCKEY 
Hanson, Thang sidelined 
Coach Jackson says others must step up to ease pain of losses 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
After a virtually injury-free season to date, the Irish saw two of their top forwards, Christian Hanson and Ryan Thang, go down in Friday's win over Ohio State. Thang is expected to miss four to six weeks with a high ankle sprain, while Hanson is week-to-week after suffering a slight concussion. 
While there is a chance that Hanson could play this weekend against Northern Michigan, the earliest Thang could see the ice again is the second round of the CCHA playoffs. 
WU YUE/The Observer 
The junior right wing went 

Irish junior right wing Ryan Thang handles the puck during see INJURIES/page 16 Notre Dame's 5-1 win over Bowling Green on Nov. 21. 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Hoopsters slam du~ Adrian on hotne floor 
By ROBERT GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 

After losing to Hope a week and a half ago, the Belles knew the only way they would have a shot at the conference title would be if they won all of their remaining five games. After a scrappy, hard-fought win against Adrian last night at the Angela Athletic Complex, Saint Mary's is more than halfway there in terms of accomplishing that goal. 
Saint Mary's (14-8, 12-2) pulled ahead early in the sec­ond half to defeat the visiting Bulldogs 77-71 after only being ahead 42-41 at half­time. 
The game was a change of pace for the Belles, who have been on both sides of blowouts in three of their last four games, the most recent of which was a 66-39 win against Alma. 
After leading by one at the half, Saint Mary's fell behind by five to Adrian until there were about 10 minutes remi­aning. After a 9-0 rally, the Belles jumped ahead 65-59 and lead the rest of the way. 
The win extended the school record for most MIAA confer­ence wins in a season to 12 and the team's 14 wins over­all are the most since 1993. 
Senior forward Erin Newsom recorded her sixth double-double of the season, scoring 22 points and grab­bing 11 rebounds. Freshman guard Patsy Mahoney also contributed 22 points and freshman forward Kelley Murphy contributed 14 points to the winning effort. 
While the Belles will still 
see ADRIAN/page 14 





