IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, November 2, 2009 observer Notre Dame 40, Washington State 14 
A welcome change 
Irish roll over Cougars in first off-site home game in San Antonio 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
SAN ANTONIO — Halloween featured very few scary moments for the Irish, who rolled to a 40-14 victory over Washington State in the Alamodome. 
Notre Dame dominated the Cougars from start to finish, the first time in months that the Irish weren’t holding their breath in the closing minutes. 
“It was a relief,” Irish jun­ior quarterback Jimmy Clausen said. “Close games all the time, it kind of gets old.” 
Clausen and the Notre Dame offense put up 30 points in the first half to put the game out of reach early, highlighted by a 50 -yard catch by Golden Tate on a Clausen Hail Mary to end the half. Tate leaped over three Washington State defenders to make the catch and held on for the score. 
“It was probably one of the most phenomenal catches I’ve seen anyone make, ever, ” Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
After a three -and-out on Washington State’s first pos­session, Notre Dame drove down the field before stalling in the red zone. Freshman kicker Nick Tausch converted the field goal to put the Irish on the board 3-0 
While the Irish defense sti­fled the struggling Cougar offense, Clausen drove the Irish to their first touchdown late in the first quarter, con­verting on a 7-yard pass to junior Duval Kamara in the back of the endzone. 
The next Notre Dame drive had a similar result, as the the scoreboard playing a con-but was “cautiously opti ­sideration. After punting on mistic.” their first possession, the The Notre Dame defense did Irish were rolling down the its part in the blowout as field again well, holding when Clausen the Cougars to 


was tripped up n e a r t h e W a s h i n g t o n State endzone.  “I just felt like getting upfield and getting penetration was the  2 0 6 y a r d s o f t o t a l o f f e n s e a n d o n l y 1 0 4 t h r o u g h t h e  
We i s t h e n r e m o v e d Cla us e n, w h o o n l y s l i g h t l y  key thing, and to stay low and be more athletic than them.”  a i r . C o r n e r b a c k Robert Blanton and defensive  
aggravated his  t a c k l e  I a n  
o n g o i n g t u r f toe injury, for s o p h o m o r e  Kapron Lewis-Moore Irish defensive end  Williams each i n t e r c e p t e d f r e s h m a n  
D a y n e  C r i s t .  W a s h i n g t o n  

After an incompletion, Tausch State quarterback Jeff Tuel, converted his 14th-straight who was sacked five times. field goal, a Notre Dame “[Tuel threw for] a little record. over 100 yards and got 
The Irish put their final sacked a bunch of times, he points on the board on a long was under pressure,” Weis pass down the middle from said. “They were getting after Crist to classmate John him today, there was no Goodman, who outraced a doubt they were getting after Cougar defender 64 yards for him.” the score. The Cougars managed 102 
Crist later suffered an yards on the ground, but injury while scrambling, hurt-many of those came long after ing his left knee. Weis said he the Irish starters had left the would have an MRI this week game. 
“[Six] three and outs in the game the first defense gave up 100 yards offense the whole game. The defense gave up only 200 yards for the whole game,” Weis said at his Sunday press conference. “But when the first guys are in there, they gave up 109 yards. That was pretty impressive. With sacks, pres­sures, you know, playing the game behind the line of scrimmage. No explosives in the passing game. When is the last time we’ve been able to say that?” 
The Irish held a significant edge in talent on both sides of the ball, and Notre Dame used that to its advantage to build, and then hold, the big lead over the course of the entire game. 
“I just felt like getting upfield and getting penetra­tion was the key thing, and to stay low and be more athletic than them,” said Irish sopho­more defensive end and Texas native Kapron Lewis-Moore. 
Contact Michael Bryan at 

mbryan@nd.edu 

Wildcat forma-as Tate made
“I don’t know how 

tion and run-the touchdown
many times you see

ning game grab as time 
overwhelmed one guy with three expired. the Cougar “I ’ve seen
guys around him go up

defense. Tate them before, 
... I thought it was

finished the it’s not the drive with a phenomenal.” only one I’ve spectacular ever seen. But 16 -yard run, I don ’t know
Charlie Weis 

spinning out of how many
Irish head coach
the arms of two Washington State defenders before finding the edge and the touchdown. 
Junior Robert Hughes starred on the next drive for the Irish, wearing down the Washington State defense and punching in the score from a yard out. Hughes had a career-high 131 yards in the game and helped Notre Dame control the time of posses­sion. The Irish had the ball for 40:54 in the game. 

The Cougars finally got on the board with 1:16 left in the half, scoring on a pass from Tuel to wide receiver Jared Karstetter. The time was enough for the Irish, however, 
times you see 
one guy with three guys around him go up,” Weis said of Tate’s leap­ing catch. “He’s not 6-feet tall, it’s not like he’s 6-5 going up there, he’s like 5-11 going up there. I thought it was phenomenal.” 
The Notre Dame offense slowed its torrid pace in the second half, with injuries and 


player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Golden Tate 40:54 Golden Tate’s leaping 50-yard touch­
“It was a relief. Close games all the
Irish wide receiver down grab at the end of the first half. 
time, it kind of gets old.” 

Notre Dame’s time of possession, Tate caught four passes for 80 yards compared to 19:06 for Washington The Hail Mary from Jimmy Clausen 
Jimmy Clausen and a touchdown and added 61 State, in a game the Irish made the score 30-7 at the half and Irish quarterback rushing yards and a score. thoroughly dominated. helped bury the Cougars. 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 2, 2009 


report card 
B+ 
A­
A 
B+ 

A­B+ B 
A-
quarterbacks: Jimmy Clausen played like he has all season, and his Heisman stock continues to rise. Dayne Crist looked shaky but threw a nice touch­down before leaving with an injury. 
running backs: Robert Hughes excelled with Armando Allen held out of the game, and Theo Riddick showed flashes with the game in hand. 
receivers: Golden Tate was unstoppable as both a receiver and a runner, and Duval Kamara had another solid effort that included Notre Dame’s first touchdown. 
offensive line: Clausen was sacked twice but the line made time for all three quar­terbacks and opened up holes to pave the way for a big day on the ground. 
defensive line: The front four continues to improve, as six defensive linemen combined to make nine tackles for loss. Ian Williams added an intercep­tion of a screen pass. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o continues to show why he was Notre Dame’s most prized recruit as he adds speed to a linebacking corps made faster with the addition of converted safety Harrison Smith. 
defensive backs: Robert Blanton picked off Jeff Tuel and the secondary limited him to 104 yards passing. But the corners looked silly on the Cougars two touch­down passes. 
special teams: Nick Tausch made his 14th 
straight field goal, but he had an extra 
point blocked and punter Ben Turk was 
inconsistent again. Tate made a mental 
error trying to pick up a bouncing punt. 
coaching: The so-called Leprecat forma­tion was very successful, and Charlie Weis did what he wanted — jumped out to an early lead and held on without too much trouble. 
3.33 
overall: Finally an easy victory. The Irish weren’t dominant from the get-go, but showed why they were such heavy favorites heading in. 


adding up the numbers 
Number of first downs by Notre Dame in a game the Irish dominated. Washington State had 12 
32 
first downs and had the ball for just 19:06. 
Number of Cougars possessions ending with 5 punts to begin the game. Washington State punted eight times in all. 
Yards gained out of the Leprecat forma­tion on the six play, 80-yard drive that 
59 
ended with the first Irish touchdown. 
9 
Number of touchdown receptions by junior wide receiver Golden Tate. Only Oklahoma’s Ryan Broyles (10) has more. 
Number of Irish players who previously partici­pated in the U.S. Army All-American Bowl prep 
35
high school all-star game at the Alamodome. 
14 
Number of consecutive successful field goal attempts by freshman kicker Nick Tausch, who has hit on all but one attempt — his first. 
Number of consecutive passes Jimmy Clausen has thrown without an interception, 
124 
dating back to the Washington game. 
0 
Number of turnovers Clausen has committed when the Irish have been either tied or trailing this sea­son. 



Off-site home game a success 
When you mentioned to someone that Notre Dame was playing Washington State in San Antonio, the most common response was “why?” 
I’ll even admit that I was skeptical of the first “off-site home game” that was part of Notre Dame’s new 7­4-1 scheduling model. 
But after a weekend in San Sam Werner Antonio, it’s clear that the Associate idea is a great 

Sports Editor 
one, even if the execution could use a little improvement. 
The weekend kicked off Friday night with a pep rally in front of the Alamo, one of America’s most iconic venues. Even though the pep rally wasn’t the most raucous I’ve ever seen, the crowd itself was a sight to behold. Notre Dame estimated that close to 8,000 fans attended the rally, and the crowd spilled out onto the adjacent streets. 
The speakers included former Notre Dame running back Allen Pinkett and radio broadcaster Don Criqui, and the Band of the Fighting Irish played all the crowd favorites — and threw in a little Lone Star flair by playing “Deep in the Heart of Texas.” 
After the pep rally ended, the crowd moved down to San Antonio’s famed River Walk. Random “Let’s go, Irish” chants started up and down the river. And a few fans rode down the river back and forth waving a Notre Dame flag and cheering for the Irish. 

“I thought that this was a great venue,” Irish coach Charlie Weis said. “I mean, I thought it was awesome. And I think our players thought that. There was so much excitement in the air. I mean, I give credit to our Notre Dame fans.” 
On Saturday, San Antonio might as well have been South Bend. Irish fans owned the streets and the River Walk, but there was a surprising amount of Washington State crimson to be seen, too. 
As for the game itself, the Alamodome was about as close to Notre Dame Stadium as you could get, minus Touchdown Jesus. Mike Collins, the voice of Notre Dame Stadium, provided the public address and Officer Tim McCarthy even had a fourth quarter mes­sage for the fans. 
Numerous people compared the atmosphere of the weekend to that of a bowl game, which is tough to replicate in the middle of the season. 
The biggest positive aspect of the weekend, though, was the opportunity it gave to Irish fans in the Lone Star State. For a lot of Notre Dame supporters across the country, it just isn’t possible to get out to a game in South Bend. While there may not have been a huge student presence at the game, it’s a safe bet that for many of the alumni and subway alumni in Texas, this was their first Irish game in quite a few years, if not ever. 
“When you get into an experi­ment like this — and this is an experiment, taking a home game on the road — you need a great partner,” Notre Dame Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick said at the pep rally. “And we couldn’t have a better partner for our first off-site game than San Antonio.” 
That being said, the weekend wasn’t perfect. Despite the best efforts of Notre Dame and its alumni clubs in Texas, the game did not sell out. If you’re counting this as a true home game, it’s the non-sellout since the infamous 1973 Thanksgiving game against Air Force. The announced atten­dance was 53,407, about 82 per­cent of the Alamodome’s capacity of 65,000. 
The poor ticket sales could prob­ably be attributed to the weak opponent. As nice as the Washington State fans were, the Cougars just aren’t the type of team Notre Dame should be aim­ing for with these games. Imagine what the atmosphere would have been like if the game had been against a top tier team like Miami or Georgia, to name two. 
Hopefully, Swarbrick and the athletic department will learn from this weekend and make improvements for next year’s game against Army in Yankee Stadium. In all, though, it was a surprisingly positive experience in San Antonio for fans, coaches and players alike. 
“If the rest of them go like this, sign me up,” Weis said. “It really was a great experience.” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Monday, November 2, 2009 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Hughes makes most of opportunity 

ANDREW WEBER/The Observer Junior running back Robert Hughes runs through a would-be tackle during Notre Dame’s 40-14 victory over Washington State Saturday. Hughes led the Irish in rushing with 131 yards on 24 carries and one touchdown. 
in time of possession, control-By MICHAEL BRYAN ling the ball for over two-Associate Sports Editor thirds of the game at 40:54. 
“He did really well, stepping 
SAN ANTONIO — Junior up for us, Armando was down running back Robert Hughes and didn’t play, he ran the ball hasn’t always known when he really well for us today,” Irish would play or where he would quarterback Jimmy Clausen play. But when given the said. 
opportunity Entering the with Armando season it Allen battling app eared nagging Hughes would injuries, see adecrease Hughes has in playing 
“He did really well,

stepped up. time, as Allen “When my stepping up for us.” was the clearly number is established called, I just starter and 
Jimmy Clausen 

want to go out sophomore 
Irish quarterback 

and produce,” Jonas Gray Hughes said. stood in the “I just try to second string focus on doing on the depth my job and chart. making the best of my oppor-Then Hughes was moved tunities.” into a part-time role at full-
Hughes rushed for a career-back following an injury to high 131 yards and a touch-senior James Aldridge against down against Washington Nevada. As Allen battled State in San Antonio, relent-injuries, however, Hughes lessly pounding a struggling began receiving more time at Cougars defense. The junior’s running back and earning bruising runs helped the Irish carries. dominated Washington State “I really don’t know when the switch went on, but the switch definitely went on and he decided that this was what he was going to be,” said Weis. “Once he made that Cougars. 
“It felt great, I got in a rhythm, coach kept calling my number and I just wanted to keep running the ball well, 
decision that this is how I am, run with “It felt great, I got in a 
my pads rhythm, coach kept 
down, leaning 

calling my number and
forward, not trying to I just wanted to keep 
make every-running the ball well, 
one miss, 

run the ball hard and 
once he made that decision, keep getting yards.” I think it’s kind of 
Robert Hughes 
cleaned up 

Irish running back 
for him how he’s going to run the ball hard and keep getting yards,” Hughes said. 

Hughes also showed off his catch­ing skills in the game, grabbed four receptions for 51 yards. It has been his running style, h o w e v e r, 
play the game.” 

Hughes rushed for 68 yards and a touchdown against Purdue while Allen sat out, and then ran for 70 yards and another score against Washington. 
In San Antonio, with Allen out again, Hughes received 24 carries, only his second game with over ten this season. Hughes said the repetitions helped him get into the flow of the game and wear down the that’s set him apart from the rest of the tailbacks this sea­son. 
“[Running backs coach Tony Alford] always felt we’ve got a lot of little guys that can dance around everyone,” Weis said. “We’ve got Armando, we’ve got Theo, we’ve got guys that can dance around. He’d like to have that bruiser.” 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Notes: Lewis-Moore enjoys homecoming 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
uThe 
game in San Antonio had an extra special meaning for Notre Dame sophomore defensive lineman Kapron Lewis-Moore, who hails from nearby Weatherford, Texas Lewis-Moore said he received over 20 ticket requests for the game, but was able to accom­modate everyone. 

“It was good being back to Texas — the hospitality and everything,” Lewis-Moore said. “I miss the Texas weather.” 

• 
Freshman kicker Nick Tausch set a Notre Dame record by connecting on his 14th-straight field goal in the third quarter. After missing his 



first career attempt at Michigan, Tausch has been perfect on the season. Mike Johnston set the previous record of 13 during the 1982 season. 
• 
Saturday’s game was Notre Dame’s first indoor game since a 41-14 loss to LSU in the 2007 Sugar Bowl. It was the Irish’s first victory in a dome since beating Florida in the 1992 Sugar Bowl. 

uThree 
Notre Dame players were injured in the game Saturday night. Sophomore quarterback Dayne Crist hurt his knee, and sophomore offensive lineman Trevor Robinson and sophomore defensive lineman Kapron Lewis-Moore hurt their ankles. 


At his press conference Sunday night, Weis said that Crist would receive an MRI Monday to determine the extent of the injury and that Robinson could miss next week’s game against Navy with a low ankle sprain. He added, though, that Lewis­Moore’s injury was minor and didn’t anticipate him missing any time. 
• 
Senior tight end Mike Ragone, who has played in every game this season for Notre Dame, recorded his first catch of the season Saturday night on a short six-yard com­pletion from Clausen. 

• 
Former Irish great and 1987 Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown was scheduled to 


speak at the pep rally Friday night, but was replaced by Allen Pinkett at the last minute. Brown, a Dallas native, did represent the Irish for the game’s opening coin toss, serving as an honorary team captain. 
uThe Irish continued to use the Leprecat offense effectively against the Cougars, at one point running three straight plays with a player other than Clausen taking the snap. The formation worked, though, gaining 59 yards on an 80­yard first quarter touchdown drive. Junior wide receiver Golden Tate also had a touch­down run out of the Leprecat. 


Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 



scoring summary 

1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Boston College  0  7  0  7  14  
Notre Dame  9  21  3  7  40  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 3, Washington State 0 
Nick Tausch 29-yd field goal with 9:44 remain­ing. Drive: 10 plays, 45 yards, 4:23 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 9, Washington State 0 
Duval Kamara 7-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen (Tausch kick failed) with :14 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 80 yards, 3:04 elapsed. 

Second quarter 
Notre Dame 16, Washington State 0 
Golden Tate 16-yd run (Tausch kick) with 9:29 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 71 yards, 4:01 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 23, Washington State 0 
Robert Hughes 1-yd run (Tausch kick) with 4:05 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 80 yards, 4:02 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 23, Washington State 7 
Jared Karstetter 11-yd pass from Jeff Tuel (Nico Grasu kick) with 1:16 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 67 yards, 2:49 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 30, Washington State 7 
Tate 50-yd pass from Clausen (Tausch kick) with :00 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 75 yards, 1:16 elapsed. 


Third quarter 
Notre Dame 33, Washington State 7 
Tausch 23-yd field goal with 3:16 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 40 yards, 6:10 elapsed. 

Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 40, Washington State 7 
John Goodman 64-yd pass from Dayne Crist (Tausch kick) with 10:01 remaining. Drive: 2 plays, 55 yards, 1:06 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 40, Washington State 14 
Karstetter 8-yd pass from Tuel (Grasu kick) with 
5:16 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 65 yards, 3:06 elapsed. 



statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession 

passing  
Clausen  22-27-268 Tuel  12-23-104  
rushing  
Hughes  24-131 Tardy  8-72  
Tate  4-61 Mitz  5-27  
Riddick  9-51 Winston  3-4  
Gray  8-29 Tuel  10-(-1)  
receiving  
Rudolph  6-59 Thompson  3-27  
Tate  4-80 Karstetter  2-19  
Hughes  4-51 Solomon  2-14  
Kamara  3-36 Winston  2-13  
Riddick  3-24 Simone  1-15  

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 2, 2009 



Taking care of business 
Notre Dame imposed its will on a reeling Washington State team in the first in a new series of off-site home games in stadiums across the coun­try. Junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen (22-for-27, 268 yards) was effi­
cient, finding junior receivers Duval Kamara and Golden Tate (80 receiv­ing yards, 61 rushing) for touchdowns before leaving the game in the third quarter. Tate and sophomore running back Robert Hughes (131 rushing yards) each ran for touchdowns. Sophomore backup Dayne Crist connected with sophomore John Goodman for a 64-yard scoring strike but was forced to exit with a leg injury. The Irish defense held the hapless Cougars to just 206 yards offense as Notre Dame built a 30-7 halftime advantage before coasting to a 40-14 victory. Junior defensive tackle Ian Williams and sophomore defensive back Robert Blanton each had inter­ceptions, and Darius Fleming, Zeke Motta, Ethan Johnson, Steve Filer and Paddy Mullen each recorded sacks on Cougars quarterback Jeff Tuel. 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 



VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer ANDREW WEBER/The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Junior linebacker Brian Smith jumps to defend a Jeff Tuel pass; junior receiver Golden Tate makes a leaping grab on a first-half Hail Mary; sopho­more defensive lineman Ethan Johnson makes a tackle; freshman kicker Nick Tausch connects on a kick; sophomore receiver John Goodman breaks away for a score. 



