
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Lawprof,NDgroup react to Gihno action 
President Oba1na to sign executive order to close detention facility 'Within one year 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
Ac; one of the first moves of his presidency, President Barack Obama halted prosecutions at Guantanamo Bay, and the Associated Press reported that Obama would sign an exeeutive order Thursday closing detention facility in Cuba within a year. 
Professor Mary Ellen O'Connell, a Notre Dame professor of international law and a specialist on the law of war, said she was pleased with the action. 
"This was very good news, very good news indeed. The military commissions process that was set up at Guantanamo Bay is widely considered to have been seriously 11awed, very defective ... so halting those commis­sions proceedings now was a very important move by the president to get the United States back into good standing with the rest of the world," O'Connell said. 
Senior Catherine McKinney, the president said. "He sent such a strong signal that he cares of Human Rights-NO, was extremely pleased Both O'Connell and McKinney agreed that about fundamental human rights, that he with the announcement as well. the timing of the announcement indicates understands how problematic Guantanamo 
"It's a great step in the right direction on that the Obama administration will place an the road to close Guantanamo," McKinney emphasis on human rights. see GITMO/page 4 

Scully given presidential medal for ACE work 
Scully and three of his closest friends By NORA KENNEY -fellow Holy Cross priests -traveled 
News Writer 

to the nation's capital together. Fr. Richard Warner, who lives a floor below Sitting in his office last semester, Fr. Scully in Fisher HalL as well as his long­Tim Scully, received an interesting time friend Fr. Lou DelFra, and Fr. Sean phone ca:ll -from the White House. McGraw, a priest at Harvard University 
A member of President George W. with whom Scully co-founded the Bush's staff called to inform Scully he Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) had been chosen as a recipient of the program were there with Scully when Presidential Citizens Medal. he received the award. 
"I was struck by complete surprise," "The four of us went to the White Scully said. House and it was very beautiful and just 
He went to Washington, D.C on Dee. very moving," Scully said. 10 to receive the award, one of the At the White House, Bush asked highest medalc; a civilian can receive in Scully to accompany him to his desk in the United States, second only to the the Oval Office, where he presented Medal of Freedom. Scully with his medal. 
According to the White House, the Since graduation from Notre Dame in award is given in recognition of the 1976, Scully has had a profound impact recipient's "exemplary deeds of service on Notre Dame. He served as executive for their country or for their fellow citi­zens." see SCULLY/page 4 



Nine seniors given scholarships 
National program selects high school studentsfor full tuition scholarships 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
High school senior Emerald Woodberry w.as in the middle of learning a song at gospel choir rehearsal when she checked her e-mail on her cell phone and learned that she had won a $200,000 scholarship to Notre Dame. 
"I always check my email !during rehearsal]." the Toledo, Ohio, native admit­ted, who wasn't thinking 
about the scholarship at the time because she expected the e-mail to come later that day. 
"I just sat there for a little bit and was like, were they . ?"
senous. 
"I showed one of my best friends and she stopped the whole rehearsal and showed the e-mail to everyone," she said. 
Woodberry is one of nine high school seniors who WOJ.l a scholarship to Notre Dame through the Ques tB ridge National College Match pro­gram, an organization that focuses on providing "low income, high achieving high school kids" with scholar­ships, she said. 

The nine students from hail from California, Michigan, Texas, Washington, Minnesota, Florida, Georgia, Illinois and Ohio. 
Woodberry said the appli­cation process was like any other college application, asking for basic information 
see SENIORS/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 
Printers to be installed inalldonns 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
' 
During the first Student Senate meeting of the semester, the group reviewed work done QVer break, including a resolution to get printers in every dorm, and discussed committee agendas for the spring sbmester. 
The resolution that requested printers in every dorm on cam­pus was passed before break by the Campus Life Council and was approved by Fr. Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, over break, stu­dent body president Bob Heish said. 
"By the time you get back to school next fall, there will be printers in every dorm," Reish said. 
Heish also updated the Senate on the progress of the Midwest Collegiate Council, an idea that originated in Reish and student body vice president Grant Schmidt's campaign. 
"As you know, the purpose of the Midwest Collegiate Council is to bring other college's to Notre Dame's campus to discuss rele­vant issues," he said. 
Heish told the Senate several prominent universities have agreed to make the trip to Notre Dame. Student Government has received responses from University of Chicago, Northwestern University, Purdue University and Washington University in St. Louis, he said. 
Another project the Senate will be working on this semester is creating a forum to educate stu­dents about their legal rights oil" campus, Heish said. 
see PRINTERS/page 4 

Robbins speaks about 'theatre as community' 
By CATHERINE MILLER News Writer 
·­
Academy-Award winning actor and social activist Tim Robbins told an audience at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Wednesday night that the goal of theater is to "create a lasting, shared experience that will be remembered." 
He related that definition to the inauguration of President Barack Obama, saying that just as the inauguration united"humanity in hope and possibility, theater should have the same efl"ect, he said. 
Robbins gave a lecture called "Theater as C_ommunity" in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center to students, faculty and statl". 
"Theater by nature is unique and mere relevant when it involves community. It does not work if you pretend community isn't there," Hobbins said. 
He illustrated the definition of community by singing "Mary 
see ACTOR/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Change of plan 

Tuesday was all about change for a lot of people. During the afternoon, I was sit­ting on my futon, innocently checking my e-mails, and found out that I got a job offer. Instead of being relieved and excit­ed to prove to every single relative I have that my English major was in fact worth something, I 
Emma Driscoll 

immediately burst 
into tears. 
I'm not typically a News Writer crier, but something about the moment completely overwhelmed me and I felt inexplicably devastated. Sitting there, sobbing, I felt so ridiculous because I had no idea why I was so sad and I felt like I should have been more grateful to have a potential option. 
The longer I sat there, the more I real­ized that it wasn't the strange city or any surprises about the job itself that had upset me. It was the fact that I may have found a plan, and the plan would include a lot of changes: moving away from Notre Dame, away from friends, away from everything that I have spent the last three ami. half years building. 
As much as I have stressed out over the last three and a half years about finding a plan, I think I always secretly thrived on the fact that I didn't have one. For me, options and ambiguity are kind of com­forting and plans_have always felt limit­ing. 
But after casually (and even proudly) proclaiming "I have no idea what I want to do with my life" thousands of times, I may have arrived at something. 
I've always known that the future was coming, but it seemed so far away. Suddenly, it is getting real. 
All of my pre-med friends who spent countless hours in the library and reli­giously attended MCAT classes will no longer be trying to get into med school. They will be in med school, and soon they will be doctors and surgeons. 
My business major friends are no longer seeking temporary summer intern­ships to help move on to something more permanent. They are looking for some­thing permanent. 
Those considering graduate school may soon be the inspiring professors -the ones that everybody knows of and talks about-in just a few years. 
People who have always talked about doing service abroad or teaching abroad will actually be living abroad. 
While all of these changes -or really progressions -are so obvious, they did­n't seem quite as real to me until Tuesday. 
Maybe there is just too much emphasis on the idea of a plan. All of the plans that I have ever made have been thwart­ed in some huge way that frustrated me at the time, but then ultimately lead me to the very best parts of my life. Things tend to have a way of working out. 
As for me -regardless of whether or not I take this job -I plan to make the most of the rest of my senior year (and we do still have a lot of time). I'll be by The Fan, soaking in views of the dome and spending as much time as possible with th'e people that have made college a 
-time of which I am scared to let go. That's a plan I can live with. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer u PAGE 2 Thursday, January 22, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE PRESIDENT, WHAT WOULD YOU DO ON YOUR FIRST DAY IN OFFICE? 






Dillon Bailey  Casey Larkin  Bri Krafcik  Leslie Hung  Michael Winding  
sophomore Stanford  sophomore Pasquerilla West  sophomore McGlinn  $enior offcampus  sophomore Alumni  
"What would Bill Clinton d ?,,0.  "Pull a Bill Clinton."  "Order everything on the White House  "/ would make Paul Down king. ,,  "/ wouldjump offa building. "  


Sacramento, took a cab to the airport in early December, but her credit card was declined. 
The driver called 911, and Port Authority police responded. Lenhart was told she had to give the driver some compensa­tion, so she turned over the iPod. 
A spokeswoman for the Port Authority said the incident was being inves­tigated by the internal affairs office. The story was first reported by the New York Post. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

ZHIBIN DAifThe Observer Walter Nicgorski, a professor in the Program of Liberal Studies, spoke Tuesday, Jan. 20, at a lecture about the Second Vatican Council. 
OFFBEAT 
Man loses car in river on search for dog 
PORT HURON TOWN­SHIP, Mich. -A man driven to find his lost dog also lost his car after he drove onto the frozen Black River in St. Clair County, locked himself out of the idling vehicle, then watched as heat from the 1994 Buick's exhaust pipe melted the ice beneath it. 
WPHM-AM, the Detroit Free Press and the Times Herald in Port Huron reported that a police dive team were expected Wednesday to help pull the car from the frigid 
TODAY 
a:: 
L&.l :::t: 

!;;: 
1.&.1 
~ 
..... 
~ 
<C 
(.) 0
_. HIGH 31 LOW 25 

river off Port Huron 
Township,  about  .55  
miles  northeast  of  
Detroit.  

The newspapers said the Buick was a loaner while the man's vehicle is being repaired at a collision shop. 
Woman forced to use iPod to pay cabbie 
NEW YOHK -The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is investigating an incident where a California woman said she was forced to use her iPod as payment for a cab ride. Natalie Lenhart, 20, of 
menu. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
Q 
e.

***·*...
• * 
**• .. 

HIGH 29 HIGH 31 HIGH 16 LOW 22 LOW 11 LOW 5 



IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Student Film Festival will take place today, Friday and Saturday at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m at Browning Cinema in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The fesival will show 20 student films. Tickets can be purchased at performin­garts.nd.edu. 
John Smart, president of the Acceleration Studies Foundation will give his 'lec­ture entitled "Foresight Development in a Wodd of Acceierationg Change: Thoughts from an Evo Devo Futurist" in the Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business as part of the Ten Years Hence Lecture Series. This event will be held on Friday at from 10:40 a.m. to 
12:10 p.m. and is free and open to the public. 
There will be a panel dis­cussion entitled "Pornucopia: Living in a Pornified Culture." It will be held in Room 100, Hesburgh Center Auditorium on Thursday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. with a reception to follow in the Great Hall. This event is sponsored by Gender Relations Center (GRC}, Gender Studies, Ethics & Culture, Philosophy Dept, Phys Ed Wellness, Campus Ministry, and IDND. 
Tim Robbins' The Actor's Gang will prese'nt "1984" Saturday at 2 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play is an adapta­tion of George Orwell's classic novel. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY  MONDAY  
Q*** ...* * * *  Q*** ...• * ·*  


HIGH 13 HIGH 18 LOW 2 LOW 5 
Atlanta 42 I 23 Boston 23 I 14 Chicago 28 I 21 Denver 67 I 39 Houston 68 I 45 Los Angeles 72 I 52 Minneapolis 31 I 14 New York 26 I 18 Philadelphia 26 I 20 Phoenix 81 I 55 Seattle 47 I 35 St. Louis 43 I 27 Tampa 55 I 32 Washington 31 I 19 
Thursday, January 22, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC offers conditioning classes 
Course offers student athletes oppertunity to stay in shape during offseason 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
Saint Mary's College is offering students the opportu­nity to keep their New Year's resolutions to get in shape with open conditioning class­es. 
The classes, held Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays in the Angela Athletic Facility, are open to all students. 
"These classes are especial­ly geared towards students that are interested in becom­ing better soccer and volley­ball players, but are open to anyone interested in a solid conditioning program this semester," said Saint Mary's 
athletic director Julie Schroeder-Biek, in an e­mail sent to the student body on Sunday. 
Due to Div. lli restrictions, athletes cannot be required to practice year round. These sessions give athletes the 
However, all students  are  
welcome  to  come  to  the  
class.  

"Our goal is to make the athletes more athletic," 

around 25 girls to participate in these sessions. 
Dale Henry, a senior and participant in the class, said she enjoys the guidance she 
Young said. 
The classes focus on a wide variety of exer­cises including balance, vertical power and speed. 
"The classes will contain drills to increase range of motion of muscles and the joints, chal­
lenge the proprioception and balance, and incorporate movements that will help 
"This is a great oppertunity for athletes to come to work with coaches.,, 
Matt Young SMC strength and conditioning coach 
reduce the chance of knee injuries, Schroeder-Biek said. 
The coaches for the sports that are fea­tured in the classes will also be in attendance at some of the sessions. 

opportunity to stay in shape during the off season. The class was held in the fall and many of Saint Mary's basket­ball players took advantage, strength and conditioning coach Matt Young said. 
"This is a great opportunity for athletes to come work with coaches," Young said. "The classes started on Monday and the turnout is looking good. 
Young said they expect 
receives. 
"We prepare for our season and we work on specifics that will help prevent injuries.,, 
Mickey Hedinger SMC junior 

''I'm the'type of person where I need someone to tell me what to do and when to do it to stay motivated," Henry said. 
Many of the Saint Mary's soccer team members were 
in attendance at Wednesday's class and said they appreciate the opportunity to stay condi­tioned in the off-season. 
"We prepare for our season and we work on specifics that will help prevent injuries," Mickey Hedinger, a junior soccer player, said. 
One of the goals is to make the athletes quicker and more explosive by the end of the semester, Young said. 
"I would love to encourage all athletes to come and par­ticipate from all sports," he said. 
Classes run from 6 p.m. to 
7:15 on Mondays and Wednesdays and from 4 p.m. to 5:15 on Fridays. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
College celebrates history this week 
By SARAH MAYER News Writer 
Saint Mary's students have the chance to reflect on over 150 years of history at the College during the annual Heritage Week events, which began Monday. 
Heritage Week replaced Pride Week almost four years ago. The event seeks to unite the College and educate students about its rich background. 
Coinciding with the feast day of Blessed Basil Moreau on Jan. 20, Board of Governance Chief of Staff Lauren Theiss has organ­ized the events throughout the week. 
"Heritage Week is a time for students to learn about the histo­ry of Saint Mary's and to be able to appreciate the wonderful col­lege that we attend," Theiss said. 
While the event runs for a week in late January, the plan­ning has been going on since November and continued over Christmas break. 
Remaining events during the week -open to everyone on campus -include Bingo with the Sisters on Thursday in the convent and a reading of the poetry of Saint Mary's President Emeritus Sister M. Madeleva Wolff, known as Sister Madeleva, in the Reidinger House on Friday. 
Keeping up with the tradition, tours of the Reidinger House, where Saint Mary's students once went to learn traditional etiquette, will be available on Friday. This House is where alumni stay when they return to campus and is only open a few times during the academic year. 
On Wednesday from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m., Heritage Week T­shirts were passed out in the Student Center. 
"The front left corner of the shirt has the SMC script and says Heritage Week 2009. The back has a picture of the avenue with the quote, 'It is not the honor you take with you, but the heritage you leave behind,"' Theiss, said. 
The cuhnination of Heritage Week is the gathering Friday night. 
"The highlight for the week will be the Heritage Dinner on Friday night," said Theiss. "The Sisters, administrators and stu­dents gather for dinner in Stapleton Lounge and exchange stories and experiences shared at Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's first year Alexandra Lowe picked up a free shirt and said she is excited about Friday's-Heritage Week events. 
"I live in Holy Cross Hall so I pass the Reidinger House multi­ple times a day. I am excited to finally see what it looks like inside," Lowe said. ' 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

The Observer is nmo accepting applications for the position. of EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Position is for the 200_9-2010 term. Applicants for Editor-in-Chief should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills.. Also, experience with aspects ofnewspaper production is essential, including skills in lVIicrosoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop . .Applications should include a IS-page paper detailing the applicant's qualifications and ' goals and should be submitted to Chris Hine before the end of next weekin The Observer offices in the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. Please direct questions about the applications to Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu.  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 22, 2009 

Printers 
continued from page 1 
Schmidt said Student Government is still working out the details of distributing booklets with discount coupons for off campus locations. They are look­ing into selling the booklets at the LaFortune box office, he said. 
In the next few weeks, the Senate will look into complaints from students about NO-secure, the new campus-wide wireless connection, Campus Technology chair Devin Fee said. There have been reports of problems printing from NO-secure and some stu­dents say it is slower than Nomad, the previous wireless connection. 
"People have been complaining that printing from ND-secure still doesn't work," he said. "That's something we are going to con· front the Office of Information Technology about." 
The Campus Technology Committee will also look into reported problems with Verizon's cell phone service, Fee said. 
Kristin Lewis, the Student Affairs chair of the Faculty Senate, said the group took a sur­vey regarding a request by 
Robbins 
continued from page 1 
Don't You Weep" with the audi­ence, demonstrating that a shared journey unites people and creates a sense of community. 
Robbins explained that theater must do more than simply offer entertainment; it must provoke thought and a lasting effect. 
"People want an ice cream sun­dae of entertainment in their belly, but in tl1e morning ilie feeling has disappeared," he said. "What we really need is a good laugh, but community needs more. We need to feel something ilie day after." 
It is not enough to wiggle around on stage and be cute and charming, he joked. 
Robbins said he has been asked why it is necessary to merge art and social issues. 
"I don't know how art can exist without involving the world around it," he said. 
Over the past two years, Robbins has directed the Actors' Gang performance of George Orwell's "1984" and has travelled to 40 states and four continents. 
Robbins explained that the play has sparked similar discussions concerning civil liberties and the use of rule by fear af each loca­tion. He used that as an example of the provocation of thought by production. 
"Art is essential in moments of Student Government to support a resolution that would allow grad­uate school or job interviews to be a University approved excuse for absence from class. Lewis talked to faculty from different depart­ments on campus to gauge if there is any sort of policy, and how professors would feel about this resolution. 
"For the most part, most of the professors reported that their departments don't have an official policy," she said. 
However, Lewis said most facul­ty members she spoke with said they personally would not have a problem with a student missing class because of a job interview. 
In other Senate news: 
+ 
Social Concerns chair Michelle Byrne said the commit­tee is discussing organizing a skate night in the Joyce Center. The event would be free, but stu­dents would be asked to donate money for a charity.

+ 
Ryan Brellenthin, chair of the Senate Academic Affairs Committee, said his group is working hard to put together Majors Night, which will take place on Thursday, January 29. 


Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu.edu 
transformation and change. Art is 
essential in moments of despair," 
Robbins proclaimed. 
Pablo Picasso's artwork 
"Guernica" -another example 
Hobbins cited -was created after 
Germany's bombing of civilian ter­
ritory in Guernica, Spain. When 
Colin Powell petitioned for the 
War iii Iraq in the United Nations 
building, the painting was cov­
ered, he said. 
"It showed art's immense 
power," Robbins said. Powell saw 
Guemica as such a threat that he 
could not stand in form of Picasso 
and lie, he said. 
Robbins also spoke about the necessity for theater to be accessi­-ble. 
"Theater must exist outside 
walls," Robbins said. Theater and 
culture must be opnn to all, and 
the message of the production 
must resonate beyond a stage. He 
said that this can be accomplished 
by the actor, whose goal is to 
transform the soul and reach to 
the roots o( theater. 
Robbins concluded his talk by 
stating that theater and its goals 
continue to be relevant. 
"If actors have done their job, 
the journey of theater continues. 
The irilportant thing is iliat there 
is communication in the commu­
nity to provide a common journey. 
This is why art is relevant. This is 
why it will last," he said. 
Contact Catherine Miller at hmiller3@nd.edu 

this summer, I really fell in love with the whole atmos­
Seniors 
phere of it, the way every­continued from page 1 one is so close knit. The 
campus is so pretty and I and essays. Applicants listed love football," said their top schools they Woodberry. "Notre Dame wished to attend, and if they was the only one that I knew were selected, they would for sure. That was my num­be matched with the top ber one school." school they Atlanta, Ga.. were accept-high school ed into. senior Cedric 
Notre Dame Strickland,
"Notre Dame was the 
was the only who also
only one that I knew 
school that received a Woodberry for sure was my full-ride to 
listed because number one school. " Notre Dame 
othe'r schools f r o m were binding, QuestBridge,
Emerald Woodberry
and because said that he is 
of her experi­high school senior excited to go ence as one of to school that 50 students not only excels who attended academically, the African-American but also athletically. 
Scholars Progran1 at Notre Strickland has never been Dame the summer before to a high school or college her senior year. football game. 
"When I was down there "Right now I stiWhaye the 
Scully 
continued from page 1 
vice president from 2000 to 2003 and is the current director of ilie Institute of Educational Initiatives. 
One of his endeavors that has most affected the Notre Dame community is the establishment of the ACE Program. 
Placing graduates from Notre Dame and other coUeges around the country in under-funded Catholic schools, the ACE pro­gram has been one of the most influential projects in education. 
The inspiration for ilie program came from Sister Lourdes Sheehan, one of Scully's spiritual directors, who was worried about Catholic schools in her area of Savannah, Ga., iliat could not lind talented teachers to fill open posi­tions. 
Scully was unsure of how to help her, so he put an ad in The Observer that said "Tired of get­ting homework? Then give 
GitDlO 
continued from page 1 
Bay is for human rights and lor America's reputation, and the fact that he moved quickly was very strong ... that he is going to be decisive with respect to those important obligations and val­ues," O'Connell said. 
McKinney agreed the urgency of this announcement sends a message. 
"Generally what happens in the first hundred days or even first hundred hours of any administration or regime sets the tone for the time in power," McKinney said. "It was a very powerful stance on human rights and how it seems this administration is going to be protecting them on multiple lev­els." 
Ultimately, O'Connell and McKinney expeet that the deten­tion center will be completely shut down and they hope that this happens sooner rather than later. 
"I think [shutting down the detention center] is at tl1e end of the road that has been sort of started with this announce­ment," McKinney said. "I come from the position that sooner rather than later it should be, but I understand that [the Obama administration isl work­ing through a lot of other issues as well at this time." 
O'Connel agreed. 
view like in the movies everyone's in the bleachers cheering on their team," he said. 
The scholarship is espe­cially valuable because QuestBridge focuses on low­income students. 
"I couldn't actually afford to go to [coltege without the scholarship]." Strickland said. 
Woodberry wanted to wait to tell her mom of the schol­arship as a Christmas pres­ent, but was only able to last a week before telling her. 
"She started crying, like 'Oh my gosh, I can't believe it.' She couldn't even talk," Woodberry said of her moth­er's reaction. 
Woodberry said that her major is still undecided, while Strickland would like to pursue a degree in Business. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Holy Spirit has really been bounc­ing oft' the walls with this thing, and I think she is just getting started," Scully said. 
When Scully was asked if receiving the award from the White House was one of his greatest accomplishments, he said that he does not think in the terms of his own achievements. 
"If anything, it certainly isn't a recognition of my life. It's a recog­nition of all of the work and the passion and the creativity of the hundreds and hundreds of the young men and women -NO grads -who have been ACE teachers," he said. "To that extent, I am very proud of their work and their accomplishments. The President was recognizing the work of the ACE teachers and the ACE principals -and Notre Dame. To the extent iliat it gives glory to Notre Dame and ilie con­gregation of Holy Cross, I think [the award] is great." 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 

some!" That week, he walked into a meeting for the responders to the ad in ilie Notre Dame room of LaFortune, expecting 12 or 15 people to show up. 
"I walked into the room that night and iliere were 150 gradu­ating seniors from Notre Dame and I thought 'Wow, that's just amazing."' 
Scully said he felt this was an indication that the Holy Spirit was asking him to think bigger than just a program in Savannah. Today, he has developed the pro­gram to include well over 1,000 young teachers in 33 communi­ties in the U.S:, as well as a pro­gram for principals and a consult­ing firm for at-risk Catholic schools. 
The ACE program has come a long way since its first budget of two $5,000 checks from then­University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy's oflice, he said. 
'The Holy Spirit really wanted this to happen and ACE has become kind of a juggernaut. The 
"It's important that we move expeditiously -within the next few months to close Guantanamo Bay," she said. ''I'm sorry to hear that he's been get­ting advice to move slowly. . . . I think ilie pnople who have been advising him ... may not be sulli­ciently expert as to what AmeriCa's legal obligations are." 
O'Connell said she sees a need for international law experts to advise the president, calling the advice oft-fimployed constitu­tional or criminal law experts "inadequate" when it comes to international law. 
"Unless you know the treaties, the customary law rules, and the human rights principles that are at stake, you may be giving the president the wrong advice or inadequate advice," O'Connell said. 
If the Obama administration does dismantle the detention center, it will need to consider what to do with the people who are currently detained. 
Approximately 250 people are currently detained at Guantanamo Bay -down from a peak of almost 800 -and some of these people do not have any charges or evidence against them, O'Connell said. 
"We simply have been unable to convince their home countries or the places we took them from to take them back or it is not safe for them to be returned," O'Connell said. 
Some of the evidence against people detained at Guantanamo has been obtained from "unlaw­ful methods" and cannot be used in courts, O'Connell said. "If we have no usable credible, lawfully obtained evidence against them, we cannot conclude that they are guilty of a crime. Not in our system." 
In situations when credible evidence cannot be found against a detained person, O'Connell believes that these people must be released back into the United States. 
"The only solution I see for individuals in that category is to repatriate them to the United States. It will be very bitter for some people to contemplate, but that is the cost of creating the prison at Guantanamo Bay," O'Connell said. 
"We've made a terrible mis­take in ever using methods of torture and 'abuse, and we may have to pay a high price for that mistake," she said. 
During the period that the administration has halted the prosecutions, O'Connell and McKinney said that the proceed­ings will be reviewed. 
"They're going to review if these are fair or just or even eflective ways to prosecute these prospective terrorists. I think after that is done they're going to create a more effective mech­anism for these prosecutions ... there won't be a need for Guantanamo," McKinney said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 22, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Troops to observe, not fight 
DAKAR, Senegal -Congo's invitation to its longtime enemy Rwanda to deploy up to 2,000 troops marked an extraordinary rever­sal of alliances, but the Congolese govern­ment said Wednesday the Rwandan forces were there only to observe, not to fight Hutu militias. 
Some fear the presence of Rwandan sol­diers could spark more violence or lead to further destabilization in Congo. And the unusual deal may already be facing opposi­tion: U.N.-backed Radio Okapi quoted the head of Congo's National Assembly, Vital Kamerhe, as saying he was shocked by the news and had not been informed about it beforehand. 
Congo allowed the Rwandan troops to cross its border Tuesday, ostensibly as observers, to help disarm deeply entrenched Rwandan Hutu militias who fled to Congo after Hwanda's 1994 genocide, Congo gov­ernment spokesman Lambert Mende said. 
Gaza casualty tally released 
KHAN YOUNIS, Gaza Strip -Squatting in the rubble, his briefcase perched atop his knees, the human rights researcher inter­viewed residents of a house shelled by Israel as he compiled a list of Gazans killed and wound­ed during Israel's offensive against Barnas. 
Yasser Abdel Ghafar's work is part of a painstaking endeavor by the Palestinian Center for Human Rights to count the casualties of the 23-day war. The group released a final tally Wednesday, saying 1,284 Gazans were killed and 4,336 wounded, the vast majority civilians. 
Israel has accused llamas of inflating the civilian casualties, saying it has the names of more than 700 l-lamas militants killed in the lighting. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Nashville may make English official 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Nashville could become the largest U.S. city to make English the mandatory language for all government business under a measure being put before voters Thursday, but critics say it might invite lawsuits and even cost the city millions in federal funding. 
Though similar measures have passed elsewhere, the idea has ignited an intense debate. Proponents say using one language would unite the city, but business leaders, academics and the city's mayor worry it could give the city a bad reputation, because, as Gov. Phil Bredesen put it, "it's mean spirit-
d .. 
e . 
Study finds cleaner air adds to life 
LOS ANGELES -Cleaner air over the past two decades has added nearly five months to average life expectancy in the United States, according to a federally funded study. 
Researchers said it is the first study to show that reducing air pollution trans­lates into longer lives. 
Between 1978 and 2001, Americans' average life span increased almost three years to 77, and as much as 4.8 months of that can be attributed to cleaner air, researchers from Brigham Young University and Harvard School of Public Health reported in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bill to ensure end-of-route checks 
INDIANAPOLIS -School bus drivers would have to do end-of-route inspections to make sure no child is left behind under a bill endorsed by an Indiana Senate committee. 
The bill approved Wednesday would require drivers of a school bus or special purpose bus to inspect each seat at the end of each trip. Failing to do so would be a Class C infraction with a maximum penalty of a $500 fine. 
Three South Bend students were left on school buses last year, and earlier this month a 4-year-old child was left unattended inside a parked school bus in Hichmond. 
President Obama begins office duties 
Economy, Iraq, Guantanamo Bay, among others at the top of his to-do list 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -In a first­day whirlwind, President Barack Obama showcased efforts to revive the economy on Wednesday, summoned top military officials to chart a new course in Iraq and eased into the daunting thicket of Middle East diplo­macy. 
"What an opportunity we have to change this country," said the 4 7 -year-old chief executive, who also issued new ethics rules for his administration and hosted a reception at the presidential mansion for 200 inaugura­tion volunteers and guests selected by an Internet lot­tery. 
After dancing at inaugural balls with flrst lady Michelle Obama past midnight, Obama entered the Oval Office for the first time as president in early morning. lie read a good luck note left behind by President George 
W. Bush, then began break­ing cleanly with his predeces­sor's policies. 
Aides circulated a draft of an executive order that would close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, within a year and halt all war crimes trials in the meantime. 

Oosing the site "would fur­ther the national security and foreign policy interests of the United States and the inter­ests of justice," read the draft announced. day included separate ses­The new commander in prepared for the new presi­Treasury-designate sions on the economy and the chief held his first meeting in dent's signature. A copy was Timothy Geithner emerged wars in Iraq and the Situation Room, where obtained by The Associated unscathed from his confirma­Mghanistan. he, Vice President Joe Eiden Press. tion hearing, apologizing for The new president has and senior military and for­
Some of the 245 detainees having failed to pay $34,000 pledged to take bold steps to eign policy officials discussed currently held at in taxes earlier in the decade. revive the economy, which is war in Iraq and Mghanistan. Guantanamo would be To the evident anger of struggling through the worst Obama campaigned on a released, while others would Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., recession since the Great pledge to withdraw U.S. com­be transferred elsewhere and chairman of the Senate Depression. Last week, he bat forces from Iraq within later put on trial under terms Judiciary Committee, won approval to use $350 16 months, and to beef up to be determined. Republicans on the panel billion in leftover financial the commitment in 
Obama's Cabinet was mov­invoked longstanding rules to industry bailout funds. Mghanistan. ing closer to completion. postpone a vote on Eric He presided over the White The new White House 
At the Capitol, the Senate Holder's appointment as House meeting on the econo­press secretary, Robert confirmed Hillary Rodham attorney general. my as the House Gibbs, said Obama's phone Clinton as secretary of state Six Cabinet members have Appropriations Committee calls to leaders in the Middle after a one-day delay forced been confirmed so far, as moved toward approval of East were meant to convey by Republicans. The vote was have the two top officials at $358 billion in new spending, his "commitment to active 94-2, and spectators seated the Office of Management part of the economic stimulus engagement in pursuit of in the galleries erupted in and Budget. package making its way to Arab-Israeli peace from the applause when it was Obama's schedule for the his desk. beginning of his term." 

CUBA 

Fidel Castro says Obama is 'sincere' 
"I was with Fidel about an hour or ly sincere," who believes strongly in Associated Press more," she told reporters at the air­his ideas "and who hopefully can port as she left. "We were chatting, carry them out." 
HAVANA -Fidel Castro watched conversing. He looked good." Raul Castro, who took over the the U.S. inauguration on television Fernandez said Castro wore the presidency from his brother, and said Wednesday that Barack track suit that has become his trade­appeared with Fernandez, scoffing Obama seems "like a man who is mark since he fell ill in July 2006 at the rumors about his brother's absolutely sincere," Argentina's and vanished from public view. A health. president said after meeting with spokesman said the two met alone. "Do you think if he were really the ailing Cuban icon. "He told me he had followed the gravely ill that I'd be smiling here?" 
"Fidel believes in Obama," Cristina inauguration of Barack Obama very Raul Castro said. "Soon I'm going to Fernandez said. closely, that he had watched the take a trip to Europe. You guys think 
The meeting with Fernandez, just inauguration on television all day," I could leave here if Fidel were real­before she ended a four-day visit to Fernandez said. "He had a very ly in grave condition?" Cuba, dispelled persi"stent rumors good perception of President Castro, 77, said his older brother that the 82-year-old Castro had suf­Obama." spends his days "thinking a lot, fered a stroke or lapsed into a coma Fernandez said Castro called reading a lot, advising me, helping in recent days. Obama "a man who seems absolute-me." 


page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 22, 2009 


7:00-8:30 PM 
CATERED RECEmON 10 fOLLOW INntl GREAT HALL 
HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
ON THE HISIUMH CINTia FOa INTIINA110NAL fNPIES ON DIIM'IOID QUAD) 
SPONSORED BY:GRC GENDER RELATIONS CENTER, GENDER STUDIES PROGRAM,311 LAFORTUNE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE, PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT,
574.631.9340 

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND WELLNESS INSTRUCTION, CAMPUS MINISTRY, IDENTITY PROJECT OF NOTRE DAME 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, January 22, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,228.10 +279.01 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,936 77 877 3,108,037,485 

NASDAQ 1,507.07 +66.21 NYSE 5,273~99 ··+21.5.?3( S&P 500 840.24 +35.02 NIKKEI. (Tokyoj·····•···•·••••••.·.······· z,ss9JIOO :lii!B:tltlill FTSE 100 (London) 4,059.88 -;'\I.52 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BANK OF At-1ERICA (BAC) +30.98 +1.58 6.68 SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +4.32 +3.48 84.05 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF} +14.73 +1.19 9.27 OTIGROUP INC (C) +31.07 +0.87 3.67 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +7.72 +0.181 2.562 13-WEEK BILL +10.00 +0.010 0.110 30-YEAR BOND +6.48 +0.191 3.138 5-YEAR NOTE +9.97 +0.145 1.599 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.71 43.55 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) ·5.10 850.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.33 82.00 
Exchange Rates 

YEN • 89.0250 EURO 1.3019 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2590 BRITISH POUND 1.3933 
IN BRIEF 
Wall Street bounces back from sell-off 
NEW YORK -Investors acted Wednesday as if they had overdone it a day earlier. 
Wall Street snapped back from a steep sell­off with a rebound in the same financial stocks that were pummeled Tuesday. Upbeat com­ments from banks, stronger-than-expected results from IBM Corp. and hopes that Washington will offer more help to the econo­my powered a rally that recovered most of the previous session's losses. 
The Dow Jones industrials surged nearly 280 points and all the major indexes rose more than 3.5 percent. Some bounce would have been expected after the Dow tumbled 332 points Tuesday but forecasts from PNC Financial Services Group Inc. and Bank of New York Mellon eased concerns that the troubles at financial giants like Citigroup Inc. were hitting all banks. 
Inauguration boosts newspaper sales 
NEW YORK -Barack Obama's inauguration as president gave struggling newspapers anoth­er sales boost Wednesday as readers temporari­ly looked beyond the Internet and snatched up multiple printed copies as keepsakes. 
At News World in downtown Washington, Moira Tsanga indiscriminately grabbed copies of any newspaper that had Obama splashed across the front page. 
"I'm getting some for my mother in Zimbabwe," said Tsanga, who is from the southern African country but now lives in Virginia. 
Rhonda Hazelock also stopped by seeking to commemorate Tuesday's historic event -just as she had the morning after Obama was elect­ed. She had her hands full as she clutched nine newspapers, including The Washington Post and The Washington Times. 
"I have almost all of them," Hazelock said. She planned to give some of the papers to her boss and frame the rest or use them for a scrap­book. 
The Obama-drivim demand won't lift a news­paper industry besieged by falling advertising revenue, but the one-time sales boost could help avert a layoff or two down the road, while serv­ing as a reminder that even the Internet can't replace the value of printed newspapers in marking history. 
Toyota's sales trumped GM's in 2008 
First time in 77 years tha_t General Motors has fallen from highest-selling spot 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Toyota Motor Corp. sold more cars and trucks worldwide than any other automaker last year, seizing the crow~ General Motors Corp. held for 77 years. But with its overall sales having fallen for the first time in 10 years and the entire industry mired in a slump, there's little for the Japanese com­pany to celebrate. 
GM said Wednesday it sold 8,355,947 cars and trucks around the world in 2008, falling about 616,000 vehicles short of the 8.972 million Toyota announced Tuesday. GM said the short­fall was mainly caused by the economic downturns in the U.S. and Europe that slashed vehicle demand in those major markets, where Toyota doesn't have as large of a presence. 
Mike DiGiovanni. GM's executive director of global market and industry analy­sis, downplayed the signifi­cance of the drop to No. 2, saying that the automaker is focused on profitability rather than sales volume. 

"I don't think being No. 1 in vehicle sales means much at all to the American consumer," DiGiovanni said in a conference call with reporters and analysts. "I think what matters most to the consumer is strong brands and strong products. And the key thing right now facing risks and challenges sales fell 6.5 percent, fewer vehicles than the U.S. with what the industry is not seen since the Great including a 21 percent company did that year. going through now is viabil­Depression, and he pointed plunge in the fourth quarter DiGiovanni said Toyota's ity and profitability." out that even Toyota as the global economy melt­move to the top of the sales 
Detroit-based GM, which expects to post an operating ed down. rankings doesn't necessari­has closed plants and laid loss for the current fiscal Those declines were par­ly signal a turning point in off workers to cut produc­year -its first in 70 years. tially offset by a 3.2 percent the industry. He said it's tion as it" faces the worst Toyota's overall global increase in sales at GM's entirely possible that GM 
U.S. auto market in more sales fell 4 percent for Latin America, Africa and could regain the No. 1 spot than 25 years, received a 2008, marking that Middle East region, and 2.7 once U.S. and European $13.4 billion lifeline from automaker's first decline in percent growth in Asia­markets recover and sales the federal government last a decade. The Japanese Pacific sales. Sales outside in key emerging markets month. But the bailout automaker has cut produc­of the U.S. accounted for 64. pick up. requires GM to submit a tion in both North America percent of GM's global sales "That story has yet to be plan for long-term viability, and Japan to align its prod­in 2008, up from 59 percent written," DiGiovanni said. and the loan may be called uct offerings with slowing the year before. "Nobody knows what's back if the government has­consumer demand. Toyota's move into the top going to happen." n't determined by March 31 GM posted an 11 percent sales spot wasn't unexpect­GM shares rose 3 cents to that the plan can succeed. drop in global sales, includ­ed. The automaker nearly end at $3.53. while Toyota's 
DiGiovanni said all ing a 21 percent drop in leapfrogged GM in 2007, U.S. shares rose $1.64, or automakers are currently North America. GM Europe selling only about 3,000 2.5 percent, to $67.52. 

125 products recalle~ due to outbreak 
Associated Press recalled peanut products. "We expect an ingredient in dozens of other 
(the) number to continue to products sold directly to consumers. 
WASHINGTON -More than 125 increase," said Stephen Sundlof, Last week, Kellogg recalled some of products have been recalled in a sal­head of the FDA's food safety pro­its Austin and Keebler brand peanut monella-and-peanuts investigation gram. No major brands of peanut butter crackers. Salmonella was later that keeps getting bigger, federal butter sold in jars are implicated. confirmed in a package of Austin health officials said Wednesday. Peanut butter is not normally crackers. 
The list ranges from goodies like thought of as a high-risk product for At least 486 people in more than cookies and ice cream to energy salmonella. The bacteria, a frequent 40 states have gotten sick since the bars. Even food for pooches may not source of food poisoning, is supposed outbreak began in the fall. Six have be entirely safe, with a national com­"to be killed off in the roasting died. pany recalling some of its dog treats. process. Investigators found salmonella con­
On Tuesday, PetSmart recalled In this investigation, the common tamination at the PCA plant, which seven kinds of its Grreat Choice dog denominator is that all tfie products has suspended production. In one of biscuits. On Wednesday, the weight contain peanut paste or peanut but­the curious twists in the investiga­loss company NutriSystem issued a ter made at a Peanut Corp. of tion, the salmonella strain at the recall for peanut butter granola bars. America plant in Blakely, Ga. plant is not an exact match to the And some Asian foods made with OriginaUy the problem appeared one that has gotten people sick. the peanut sauces are starting to turn up limited to peanut butter shipped in FDA said. However, the outbreak on the recalls list. big tubs to institutional customers strain has been positively identified 
To help consumers, the Food and like nursing homes. But then peanut in a sample from an unopened jar of Drug Administration has set up on its paste was implicated. Made from peanut produced at the Georgia Web site a searchable database of ground roasted peanuts, it is used as plant. 

THE OBSERVER 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR.~eirdre Krasula 
NEWs EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jess!ca Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.ecl~ 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh&crvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlish~ Monday through Friday cro=pt during aam and v:~c:uion pc:riod~. A subscription lO The Ohsen't.T is $100 fOr one academic 
~;$55 for one:k'mester.  
The Observer is published :n: 024 Sourh Dining Hall Notre 03.m<:. fN 46556-0179  .  POSTMASTER Send addrtSS corrections to: The O!Mtrvtr .  
Pcriodic.U pusc.agc: paid ac Notre Dame and .dditional mailing offioo;.  P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dvne, IN 46'>'56-0779  

The Observer ~a member orthe As:il.ICiated Pres,,, A! I teproductiOil rights' arc reserved. : 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Jenn Metz Matt Gamber 
Becky Hogan Alex Baker Aaron Steiner Cris Masoud Kaitlynn Riely Scene 
Viewpoint Mark Witte Patricia Graphics Fernandez Mary Jesse 

Liberals aren't supposed to be reli­gious. They're not supposed to buy into a young savior who explodes onto the scene. They're not supposed to wake up to join together and sing and chant 
and, yes, worship. 
The first and only time I saw Barack Obama speak live was at American University last spring, when Sen. Kennedy, Rep. 


Kennedy, and Andrew Nesi maybe-senator­to-be Kennedy endorsed the Spicy Sea now-President. Nuggets 
It was the sort of thing that probably won't go down in history-endorse­ments, as a rule, do not-but at the time, it mattered. It legitimized Obama!Kennedy comparisons, and it legitimized Obama's experience in Washington vis-a-vis Hillary. 
But for the people at the rally -like the people at most Obama rallies -it was something more. The room had an energy and excitement I usually only experience on six or seven fall Saturdays each year. 
Liberals aren't supposed to be reli­gious, but this was a religious experi­ence. We yelled about being fired up and ready to go. We chanted that yes, we could. We wanted to be part of something. 
And, sure enough, it felt like a move­ment was taking hold. This was a tent revival for young liberals. 
Obama whipped the crowd into a political frenzy. To take the religious implication to a new level, everybody drank the Obama Kool-Aid that day. When he asked for an amen, we gave him an amen. Everybody at the rally would have gone to war for Barack by 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"An onion can make people cry, but there has never been a vegetableinvented to make them laugh". 
Will Ro~ers comed.an 


Thursday, January 22, 2009 
Inauguration 
the end. 
As George W. Bush took office in 
2001, David Brooks called the typical 
college student today "The 
Organization Kid." He wrote, "The new 
elite does not protest. Young achievers 
vaguely know that they are supposed to 
fe!ll guilty about not marching in the 
street for some causfl ... Today's elite 
college students don't live in that age or 
rebellion and alienation." 
The reason we didn't rebPI or protest, 
pPople said, is because our generation 
was apathetic. Passive. We didn't care 
enough. 
But Barack-sorry, President Obama 
-was supposed to make us loud. lie 
was supposed to enPrgizP us to be 
politically and socially active the way 
others have been in the past. lie was 
supposed to make us more like our 
parents: rallying, protesting, and 
actively working for change. Hevival­
style rallies were supposed to show 
that we WPre more political than ever 
before. 
But a funny thing happened on the 
way to the Inauguration. People had it 
all wrong. For all his rallying during 
the campaign, Obama turnPd out to be 
pragmatic at heart. He isn't an ideo­
logue. He is a liberal who acknowl­
edges bravery at Khe San in his 
Inaugural Address. He wasn't born of 
protest or rebellion. 
In other words, he is one of us. He 
proves what we know: that relative 
quiet is not apathy. We're not passive 
bystanders. Just because we don't 
march doesn't mean we don't care. 
We don't "vaguely know that [we] are supposed' to feel guilty about not marching in the street for some cause." We're not supposed to feel guilty about 
·not marching in thP street for some 
cause. We have other ways of demon­
strating that -we spend a lot of time 
volunteering in our communities and 


www.ndsmcobserver!eom 
abroad, we Teach for America, we vote in record numbers when somebody speaks our language. 
The excitement of his campaign was not because it charged us to act like our parents generation expects. It was bPcause he spoke to us in language we understood, because he approached political activism the way we did. Tent­revival endorsement events were thrilling because Obama taps into something our generation knows, not because he was changing us. 
Obama won't make us more like our parents. Instead, he'll make our par­ents more like us. 
Of course, not everybody has realized this yet -least of all, our news media. But it is time we develop a new way to talk about politics. Trying to under­stand the impact of Obama on young people through the political lens of Vietnam and 60s-style activism makes no sense. It just doesn't work. 
This is what President Obama means when he says that "the stale political arguments that have consumed us for so long no longer apply." The tech­niques of political activism of the past, rooted in the "stale" ideological clashes of the past, no longer apply, either. 
It seems like President Obama gets that intuitively. We get it intuitively, too. It's time that everyone else finally catches up. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. While sitting in awesome seats during a Yankees game two years ago, he sug­gested to Derek Jeter that he take the first pitch ofhis first at-bat. Jeter took a strike, glared at him, and struck out on three pitches. True story. He can be reached at anesi@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Try not to become a man ofsuccess but rather to become a man of value". 
Albert Einstein physicist 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 22, 2009 page 9 
A week of reasons to hope 
Well, this week has certainly provided food for thought and a reason to get out of the regular drill. If we ever get lulled by sheer monotony, sub-zero temperatures, exhaustion or apathy into allowing the cir­cles of our thoughts 
to become circum- Kate Barrett  
scribed in narrower  
and narrower ways, will this week shake  Faithpoint  
us out of our winter­ 

in-northern.-Indiana stupor? 
The celebration of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day on January 19 could not help but be tinged with the anticipation of Barack Obama's inauguration on January 20. King could say in 1963, when the future looked desolate in so many ways for peo­ple of color, "I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, and every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight; 'and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together.' ... With this faith, we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith, we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will ba free one day." 
Just as any other recurring event, the transition and inauguration are fraught with tradition. There are those dictated by the Constitution: the time and manner in which a new president is to be handed power, dating back to George Washington. And there are those that are much more informal, such as the precedent set Mary Todd Lincoln of wearing a white gown to the Inaugural Ball. 
There are few traditions that interest me more, however, than the assorted letters Jason Coleman written by those leaving for those arriving. This is a Man at Large tradition, depending on the position, dating back to the founding of our country. 
The most mysterious of the bunch, of course, is the letter sealed and left on the oval desk by the outgoing president. What does it say, and to what effect? In leaving the White House, James Buchanan report­edly said to Abraham Lincoln, "Ifyou are as happy entering the presidency as I am in leaving it, then you are a truly happy man." While I'm not sure Mr. Bush's will be quite as explicit, I can't help but imagine that the letter is written as a warning of the difficulties and trials facing the newest 
President Obama was all of two years 
old at the time of King's speech. We would 
probably all have to agree that now, two 
days ago on Jan. 20, when the new presi­
dent gave his inaugural address facing the 
very monument from which King spoke, 
many of the "jangling discords of our 
nation" have not been transformed. We 
aren't free today, though what binds us 
has changed. In addition to racial and eth­. nic prejudices not yet fully healed, war 
threatens to grip us like quicksand and 
economic fear and despair hover around 
us as we hear story after story of layoffs, 
foreclosures and bankruptcies, even as we 
live in a culture that refers to us all as sim­
ply "consumers." 
Tuesday's address, a mix of realism and 
hope, as well as all the events of 
Inauguration Day, reminded us that we 
are citizens, not merely consumers, a dis­
tinction which implies giving of ourselves 
rather than simply collecting what we can 
obtain or purchase. President Obama 
described the demands of citizenship: 
" ... we have duties to ourselves, our nation 
and the world; duties that we do not 
grudgingly accept but rather seize gladly, 
firm in the knowledge that there is nothing 
so satisfying to the spirit, so defining of our 
character, than giving our all to a difficult 
task." 
And yet as Christians, we must add 
another, even more fundamental layer of 
truth onto all the inspiring words and images the celebrations of these last few days have given us. Our faith calls us to believe that we will find all that we hope and yearn for ifwe place Jesus of Nazareth at the center of our lives. Catholics believe that we will find Jesus Christ in his Body, the Church, and that therefore the entire focus and purpose of the Church is to point the world to Christ. 

As compelling and attractive as the world seemed to find President Obama on Tuesday, it would be unfair -and foolish -to place too much hope in him. As one commentator said later that day, "He's the President, not the Messiah." President Obama's relationship with Christians of all denominations will probably remain filled with a complex mix of agreements and disagreements, unity as well as discord. Senior Catholic leaders from around the world have already praised his position on immigration at a time when many of the poorest people seeking to come to the United States are caught, with growing desperation, in the global economic down­turn whether they seek work in their home countries or here. At the same time, the new president's support of the pending Freedom of Choice Act (FOCA), which establishes abortion as a woman's "funda­mental right" throughout her nine months of pregnancy, remains an enormous, though unsurprising, disappointment. Furthermore, other aspects of his inaugu­ral address, though inspiring, lose their 
To w-hotn it tnay concern 
member of the world's most exclusive club. 
It will warn of the inevitable time when the honeymoon wears off and the press again turns rabid. It will talk about the inevitable failures of the presidency: hav­ing new legislature blocked and Congress call your bluff. And it will foretell the times when the tasks at hand become nearly impossible, and that it is probably in these times that sentiments similar to Buchanan's arise. It might talk about the difficulty of being a mere mortal, but being compared to some of the immortals of his­tory, those whose faults history has long forgotten. 
In recent months, Mr. Bush has seemed to become far more introspective and reflective of his time in office, asi'm sure outgoing presidents are, and it's perhaps in this simple letter he can find the only audi­ence who will soon be able to understand his travails. 
There is also the distinct possibility that I am completely wrong, and it mostly just advises to be cautious of the second floor toilet; that sometimes it's necessary to jig­gle the handle. 
Another instance of letter passing that I find amusing is the Flack Jacket, a suit coat hanging in the office of the White House press secretary that holds in its pockets words of advice from every former press secretary dating back to Ron Nessen of the Ford administration. Allegedly the job of press secretary is second in difficulty job only to the chief executive himself, so I'm sure the advice left in the jacket is appreciated. 

What might the collective group of outgo­ing Bush administration front men leave as advice for Robert Gibbs? I imagine Ari Fleischer would warn against getting thrown under the bus, and to beware any­thing related to undercover CIA agents and corrupt vice presidential chiefs of staff. 
Scott McClellan probably talked about the horrors of working in the White House, and may have even mentioned future intent to make a fool out of himself. He might have explained the difficulties of working in an environment where a con­flict of conscience can arise. But he cer­tainly didn't allude to confronting those issues; it's better to wait and make a hefty profit. 
The latest secretary, Dana Perino, most likely would give the best piece of informa­tion: Beware speaking off the cuff, and keep it simple. That way you can avoid proclaiming, in reference to Mr. Bush's low poll numbers, "Both the president and the vice president have long believed, and it's a part of what has made them the leaders that they are, which is not to chase popl!­larity polls but to hold themselves to a standard that requires people not to like them." Ouch. 
The newest, and perhaps my favorite incarnation of the letter writing tradition began this cycle when the Bush twins credibility in light of his willingness to back FOCA. "People will judge you on what you can build, not what you destroy," he stated. Does this not apply to each and every one of us as much as to the foreign leaders he addressed? 
Today, perhaps even as you're reading this, the March for Life fills the very same National Mall in Washington, D.C. where Martin Luther King spoke 46 years ago and President Obama took the oath of office just two days ago. The United States Bishops ask us to pray for and defend "the basic rights of those who are weakest and most marginalized: the poor, the homeless, the innocent unborn, and the frail and eld­erly who need our respect and assistance." 
We may find much hope for the future in the words and the person of Barack Obama, and in taking note of how far we've come since Martin Luther King, Jr. told the nation and the world that he had a dream. We can't risk forgetting, l'iowever, that all our hopes will only truly come to fruition as we seek together to find and follow the person and example of Jesus Christ. 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett. Kate Barrett is the director ofthe Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
penned a letter of advice for the incoming Obama girls, Sasha and Malia. Speculation is not necessary for this letter; it was quickly reported and published along with some of the highlights. The girls warned that over time people will come to think differently, sometimes for the better, some­times for the worst, but to always remem­ber who your father is, not the sketch or image in the newspapers. 
They emphasized the "magical" aspects of living in the White House. I'm not entire­ly sure how the "magical" experiences of the 27 year old twins, who were 18 and going to college at inauguration, wholly relate to 7 year old Sash a and 10 year old Malia, but I'm sure they have something to offer. 
They emphasized the importance of first daughter experiences, such as sliding "down the banister of the solarium ... and playing sardines on the White House lawn." I actually also heard there was an unpublished postscript: Until you're 21, watch the bar scene. With a full secret service escort, you'll draw some attention. 
That's probably the most prudent advice of all. 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views'" expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR  
Fairness in hiring  
Charles Rice's editorial on "Catholic identity" and Notre Dame arrives, by a circuitous route, at the conclusion that the University's president should "veto" appointments of faculty candi­dates who are not Catholic. Unless one believes that it is in the interest of the Church in America to have the coun­try's leading Catholic university bereft . of academic credibility, Rice's proposal is most unwise. It is also unwarranted. Rice seems determined to blame Notre Dame's commitment to excel­ lence as a research university for vari­ous ills, including driving up the cost of undergraduate education. In fact, costs have risen comparably at good private colleges, without graduate stu­dents or major research agendas. · Compare Notre Dame's $46,600, for example, to Amherst College's estimat· ed $51,000 to $53,000, Kenyon College's $47,000, the College of William and Mary's $40,000, and Holy Cross College's $49,000. More to the point, he blames the pursuit of  "research repute" for a putative lack of concern for teaching, citing the claim of an unnamed "liberal arts pro­fessor" that undergraduate teaching is irrelevant in promotion decisions. In fact, teaching is weighed very heavily in all the liberal arts I know, through faculty efforts, careful consideration of student evaluations, and labor-inten­sive peer observation and mentoring. It is not just Notre Dame's "research repute" but its reputation for intellec­tual seriousness and its influential  leadership that would vanish overnight if Rice's advice were fol­lowed. Vetoing appointments on the basis of faith would be imprudent. In view of Notre Dame's stated commitment to fairness in hiring, it would also be unethical. Prof. John Sitter Chair and Notre Dame Professor of English 356 O'Shaughnessy Jan. 21  


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Thursday, January 22, 2009 

prologue 

A teenage boy reconstructs the 
JOe piarulh, dan · 
STUDENT 
descriptions of each film on the By ANALISE LIPARI Film, Television and Theatre depart­Scene Editor ment's Web site. "There are films about being at a party on a week­For two decades, students studying end, to being stuck at home by your­film and film production at Notre self on your birthday, to following a 
Dame have had the  member of Opus Dei."  
chance  to  showcasn  An impressive  num­ 
their films at the annual Student Film Festival. This year, the Film, Television  ND Student Film festival Tonight -Saturday  ber of students who've participated in the Festival in past years have gone on to  
and Thp,atre dp,part­mont is eelebrating the festival's 20th anniversary, starting  6:30 and 9:3op.m. Browning Cinema Tickets $6, $5  careers in the larger film and entertain­ment industry. Mandell notes that  
tonight. Ted Mandell, a pro­fessor in the FTT  Faculty/.Sta.ff, $4 Seniors and $3 for  Stephen Susco. a pro­fessional screenwriter who wrote the  
department  and  a  Students  American adaptation  
11JH6 graduatn of tho  of' "The Grudge," is  a  
University,  started  former  Domer,  and  

the f'ilm festival in 1990. Back then, other alumni have gone on to work Man-dell said in a reeent interview for HBO, the NFL network and EA with Tlw Obsnrver, the setting was Sports. hardly as dressed up as its eurr<~nt While the success may come later, fflsidencn, thll Browning Ciiwma in tough production schedules and tight the DeBartolo Performing Arts deadlines can characterize these Center students' learning experiences, for 
"The Festival then was more like a better and for worse. Mandell public sereening," Mande.]] said. "We recalled a memorable episode in one had about 50 people show up, and it of the early years of the Festival that was down in the basement of the brought procrastination to a humor­Cflnter for Continuing Education.". ous new ]p,vel. 
Currently, the Festival is an oppor­"One time when we were showing tunity for students in any of the the Festival, there was one guy fin­department's production courses to · ishing his film while the Festival was showcase preselected sampling of actually running. lie was doing his their best work. "It's not a competi­final edit, and [the film] was sup­tion," Mandell said, "but it's more of posed to show 60 minutes into the a showease of their work, and the screening. He got it done 20 minutPs types of' work that our students are ahead of time," he said. doing." To Mandell,. it's this organized 
In its oarly days, Mandell says, the chaos that characterizes what he Fnstival was much less formally calls "the filmmaking age," and that structurPd. his students can experience each 
"It was a screening of any stud1mt time they go behind the camera. "It's l'ilm they wantnd to put up thnre," he about problem solving. writing the said. "We had maybe two production script, finding the actor, figuring out courses then, and the studimts who what's wrong with the battery wanted t.h1~ir l'ilms shown put them power, and staying up 24 hours to all tognther and put them on try and edit l'ilms. It's a lengthy and screen." In those days, the festival very rewarding process." featured a little less than three What makes this year's festival hours of material. Now, Mandell unique is its impressive anniversary: said, "it's changed, and it's grown Twenty years of student films are into tho bnst student work over the being celebrated as the department past year." features its students' work, and two 
Mandell also notes that the decades of memories are packed into Festival is a rare opportunity for each night's showing. film students to air their films "to a To Mandell, however, the real lega­larger audience," both within the cy of the Festival comes alive when University and in the greater South we watch the fruits of these stu­Bend community. dents' labors onscreen and beyond. 
This years' crop of films, ranging "Honestly, the real satisfying thing from doeumontarins to period is to see the students bring their pieces, is a varied one. Ilighlights of films to the festival, then go out in the selnctions includB "Our Lady's the real world using the skills and Bouncers." the saga of' trying to get experience they've learned. When your car past a Notre Dame Security they say, ·we learned a lot here, so booth, and "Dana," a documentary wo can do a lot of things out in the piece about a Native American stu­world -documentaries, features, et dent adapting to student life in the cetera -that's the most satisfying Midwest after growing up on a thing," he said. Navajo reservation. 
"It's a wide variety," Mandell said, Contact Analise Lipari at noting that students can check out alipari@nd.edu 
• 

** •
-
•

dana 


our lady's bouncers 
danielle sclafani, christina marzo, katie dare 
A transfer student discovers 
that getting accepted to Notre Dame is easier than 
gettip,~past the infamous 
secuti,ty gate guards. 
The John Conroy Band 
freshens things up with a 
music video along the Lake 
Michigan coastline. 
Everything changes with a birthday wish. 
events of a nightin which his 
best friend was raped, a rape 
he could have prevented. 


20tJ8ANNIVERSARY 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT FILM FESTIVAL'09
·'*{;:W 
•• 
A Native American student 
struggles to acclimate to life at 
the University of Notre Dame. 




MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 
----~--~--------~--------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, January 22, 2009 
page 11 

, Baghdad High (2008), 6:30 and 9:30pm, 
Listen to Notre Dame's very own band, ····Browning Cinema Chicken Jackson, shake up the audiences'; -' Thousands of miles away teenagers wake up with their live performance at Legend's> 'every morning, get dressed and make their this Thursday night. Blending a mix of·,.·. ways through high school, just like American 
.rock and jam with. a touch of funk, this ~·.·.:-~'students do. Directors Laura Winter and Ivan .. group will perform their original music\~ ;'O'Mahoney want to show Westerners that . inspired by icons such as the Red Hot\ their age-equivalents living in Baghdad really Chili Peppers, the Allman Brothers"~is not that different, giving four Iraqi high :sand, Sublime and the Rolling Stones.: 7,.· school seniors video cameras to document .-Chris Terschluse and Nick DePrey will >their lives for a year. This completely different -rock the vocals, bass and guitar, accom-·and new perspective on life in Iraq will show panied by guitarist Patrick Needham and audiences what it is like to be a teenager in a ·drummer Michael Spencer. For samples: world ravaged by uncertainty and discontent, of their work, visit their Facebook page, and how Iraqis still hold on to their faith that a ·."Chicken Jackson." Take a study break······ better tomorrow will come. This is a free, but Thursday night and head over to~'>ticketed event. Please call the DeBartolo Legend's for an energized and entertain-' .Performing Arts Center Ticket Office at 574­
;ingperformance: .., 631-2800 to reserve tickets. 
·Tim Robbins' The Actors' Gang presents 1984, ·· Citizen Kane, 3:00 p.m., Browning Cinema 
2:00 and 7:30 p.m., Decio Mainstage Theatre This 1941 classic utilizes multiple flashbacks and 
"Big Brother is Watching You." The haunting···~_:·. newsreel clips to expose the tile of Charles Foster reality that characters in George Orwell's "1984" . Kane (a character whose story seems to parallel face is one in whi<11 their every move, word and ., the real-life William Randolph Hearst). a million­decision is monitored by an ever-present govern-.. ain'rnewspaper mogul who passed away but left ment that refuses to allow dissidence. Oscar< :reporters stupefied when he cryptically spoke his Award-winning actor Tim Robbins direct<> an adap-.la<>t word, "Rosebud." As the search to discover the 1..:'1tion of thiS story for the Deeio Mainstage Theatre·,·, meaning of these words continues, more details 
·thi'i weekend in a thought-provoking performance;: ; , come to surface revealing who the real Charles ~that will force audiences to examine the govern-. Kane wa'i and how the rise of his power and for­. ment's role in their own lives. Using the interroga-.·· ·. tune inversely affected the fall of his happiness . . tiun of the rebellious protagonist Winston as the ' · Orson Welles poured his heart and soul into the 
· center of the plotline, Robbin.<; unfolds the rest of .· creation of tllis piece serving as its director, star the drama with the authority figure's questions, ..~ · and producer and the release of this piece met which force Wmston to travel through his memory ::: much due praise for its profound storyline and the and recall si~-,'llificant details lhnn his past. \-; secrets it reveals about human nature. 
·\ 1 
..... --~ 

'""'Turkey an'd'i:uue Cheese -·--ind"top~withi'h;"~ili~r sicte='~T ing'"""'ii~~d'=~li'~~,~-~T turkey By MICHELLE FORDICE Sandwich bread. (again, don't forget to see if Assistant Scene Editor 6. Serve With apple slices or they are carving turkey that 
This sandwich has a good a quick salad. day). 
Today we have a turkey bite to it -the red wine vine­3. Ladle gravy over the top. . theme. Turkey is nutritious, gar cuts through the blue Open Faced Turkey 4. Serve with mashed pota­· providing things like folic acid cheese and savory turkey Sandwich toes. 
and vitamin B, and relatively nicely and the red onion adds 

low-fat (without the skin). a crisp spice. Hemember to go This is usually a post­Quick Tip : Each of these recipes adds <t for the nicer bread. It will Thanksgiving meal, but with ;; twist to the classic sandwich, make the sandwich that much the dining hall's regular serv­or course, there's nothing 
putting a new spin on this fre­better. ing of things like stuffing and wrong with traditional! You quent member of your brown 1. Pick up two slices of gooe mashed potatoes, you can can always jazz up the basic bag lunc~h. -wheat bread. have it whenever you want. version of a turkey sandwich 
Of course. these sandwiches 2. Spread a thin layer of It.'s a fun take on a sandwich with a couple of condiments. provide plenty of sustenance mayonnaise on one side of too, so smothered with gravy Try hot sauce, a dash of salt and definitely deserve the bread. you need a knife and fork. and a little mayo. Don't forget transition to dinner. 3. Toss some spinach in red Sadly, the dining hall does­the pickle! Whenever you decide to eat wine vinegar. oil and a touch n't have cranberries that them. they'll certainly be ·of salt. Place on sandwich often, but y.ou can always try tasty. 4. Place slices of red onion to substitute a glass of cran­
and turkey (don't forget to b'erry juice. Have your own dining hall This week's recipes: c h e c k "i f t h e y a r e c a r v i n g 1. Pick up one slice of good recipe? We would love to fea­turkey that day) on sandwich. white bread. ture it! E-mail 
5. Crumble on blue chees_e 2. Top with a layer of stuff-mfordice@nd. edu. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 22, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Hokies hand No.1 Wake first loss of season 
. . 
Michigan State upset at home by Northwestern behind Coble's 31; Gamecocks knock offFlorida with buzzer beater 
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. ____:. Virginia Tech made sure there are no unbeaten teams left in Division 
I. 
Malcolm Delaney scored 21 points and the Hokies held on to upset No. 1 Wake Forest 78-71 on Wednesday night. 
A.D. Vassallo and Jeff Allen added 16 points apiece for the Hokies (12-6, 3-1 Atlantic Coast Conference}. They led nearly from the opening tip to the final buzzer, pushed their lead to 16 and made it stand up for their first victory over a No. 1 team since they beat North Carolina two sea~ons ago in Blacksburg. 
Jeff' Teague scored 23 points and James Johnson added 18 before fouling out with 1:17 remaining for Wake Forest (16-1, 3-1), which was playing as the nation's top-ranked team for the first time since November 2004. 
The Demon Deacons' early 16­point deficit was by far their biggest of the season, and they trailed by 10 at halftime before they m&de it a game again. They used a 14-4 run early in the sec­ond half that brought them within single digits, then cut it to two twice in the final 4 minutes -the last coming when Teague's 3­pointer with 1:49 remaining made it 71-69. 
But Delaney hit two free throws 7 seconds later and the Hokies allowed one field goal after that to clinch one of the biggest victories in school history. 
Virginia Tech improved to 2-7 against top-ranked teams-and continued its dominance of the Demon Deacons. The Hokies have won five of their last six meetings with Wake Forest. 
The Demon Deacons' school­record 16-0 start is history, and its next home game-a Jan. 28 showdown with Duke -suddenly looks less appealing now that it might not be a 1-vs.::2 matchup. 
L.D. Williams finished with 12 points and Al-Farouq Aminu added 10 for Wake Forest, which looked nothing like the nation's top-ranked team early on. 
That's largely because the Hokies' physical defense took the Demon Deacons out oftheir game. 
Virginia Tech erased its only lead of the half by outscoring them 23-6 over an 11-minute span, going up 30-14 on Victor Davila's layup with 4:18 remaining. 
Wake Forest didn't attempt a free throw in the first half-while the Hokies were 10-for-14 from the stripe -and for a stretch of 13 minutes, Teague was the only Demon Deacon to score. The rest of his teammates were a com­bined 0-f'or-9 during that span. 
Northwestern 70, Michigan State63 
Kevin Coble scored 31 points and Northwestern stunned No. 7 Michigan State on Wednesday night, ending the Spartans' 28­game home-court winning streak. 
The Wildcats (10-6, 2-4 Big Ten) used clutch 3-point shooting and an aggressive 1-3-1 zone to beat a turnover-plagued Michigan State team that got little from leading scorer Haymar Morgan. 
Averaging 14.8 poinl<> per game entering Wednesday, Morgan did not start because of lingering flu­like symptoms. He came off the bench early in the first half but finished with only one point in 18 minutes. 
Michael Thompson had 20 points for Northwestern. Kalin Lucas led the Spartans (15-3, 5-1) with 20 points. 
Michigan State's home-court winning streak had been tied for third-longest in the nation. Only Notre Dame (45) and Kansas (35) had longer runs. 
Wednesday's game was the 300th played at the Breslin Center, Michigan State's on-campus arena that opened for the 1989-90 sea­son. The Spartans are 262-38 in the building, winning 87 percent of the time. 
Michigan State's 5-0 start in the Big Ten was its best in conference action since 1977-78, when the Spartans opened with seven straight wins. 
But Northwestern, relying on its aggressive defense and Coble's 19­point first half, trailed just 34-33 at halftime. 
The Wildcats grabbed a 44-39 lead when Coble nailed a runner in the lane with 13:33 remaining. His leaning, 3-pointer off the glass just moments earlier had broken a 39-all tie. 
Northwestern's lead grew to 48­43 with 9:22 left on a turnaround jumper by Luka Mirkovic. 
Michigan State fought back to take a 49-48 lead on a pair of free throws by Durrell Summers. But back-to-hack 3s by Craig Moore and Thompson gave Northwestern a 54-49 lead with 
6:31 remaining. 
The Spartans trimmed the lead to 57-55 on Lucas' 3-pointer with about 4:30 remaining, but Moore responded with a 3-pointer with 
3:54 left to put the Wildcats ahead 60-55. 
Coble's basket gave Northwestern a 62-55 edge with 
2:14 left. The Wildcats made just enough free throws down the stretch to hold off a Michigan State comeback. 
Moore finished with 11 points. Goran Suton had 15 points and 14 rebounds for the Spartans. 
Connecticut 89, Villanova 83 
A.J. Price scored a career-high 29 points to lead No. 3 Connecticut to its sixth straight victory, over No. 20 Villanova on Wednesday night. 
Jerome Dyson added 19 points and Jeff Adrien had 12 points and 14 rebounds, his fourth· double­double in as many games, for the Huskies (17 -1, 6-1 Big East), who 

improved to 5-1 this season 
against ranked teams, with the 
only loss coming at home to 
Georgetown. 
Dwayne Anderson had 15 points 
for the Wildcats (14-4, 2-3), who 
have dropped three of five, with 
all the losses to fellow ranked 
teams in the Big East. 
The matchup of teams ranked in the league's top five in defense looked nothing like that as the first half ended tied at 48. The defense picked up on both sides in the sec­ond half, although both teams allowed more than 20 points over their season average. 
· Price, the fifth-year senior whose career has been marred by a life-threatening brain injury, a season-long school suspension over on-campus thefts and major surgery after a knee injury in last season's NCAA tournament, had 20 points in the first hall'. He hit all of Connecticut's four 3-pointers in tl1e game, finishing 4-for-6 beyond the arc. 
His previous career high was 26 points against Notre Dame last season and his best outing this season was 24 points in a win over Gonzaga. This was the third time in Price's career he had 20 points in consecutive games -he had 23 in Sunday's win over Seton Hall. 
Price was 1 0-of'-13 from the 
field and had five rebounds and 
five assists. 

The Huskies used a 10-0 run to 
go up 66-59 on a drive by Dyson 
with 13:24 to play. 
Reggie Redding of Villanova hit a 3-pointer to cut the margin to four, but Price answered with his only 3 of the second half with 12:04left to make it 69-62. 

Connecticut's biggest lead came at 75-64 on a free throw by Kemba Walker with 7:42 to go, but the Wildcats managed to get back to 84-81 on a 3 by Scottie Reynolds with 28 seconds to go. The Huskies went 5-of-6 from the free throw line the rest of the way. 
Reynolds had 14 points for the Wildcats, who had won their last two meetings and three of four against Connecticut, while Antonio Pena, Redding and Corey Stokes all had 12. 
Adrien's double-double was the 41st of the senior's career and his eighth this season. 
Dante Cunningham, Villanova's leading scorer and rebounder with averages of 17.4 and 7.4, fouled out with 8:16 to play and fi!Ushcd with six points and three rebounds. 
These teams met in the same building in 2002 with Connecticut winning 46-40. 
South Carolina 70, Florida 69 
Zam Fredrick's layup as time expired lifted South Carolina to 70-69 victory over No. 24 Florida. 
The Gamecocks (13-4, 2-2 Southeastern Conference) trailed 67-60 with less than three min­utes left. Devan Downey began the comeback with four straight foul shots and his 3-pointer with 26.5 seconds left cut the lead to 69-6 7. 
After Nick Calathes missed a foul shot, Fredrick had the ehance to tie the game as he-went to the line with 4.7 seconds to go but missed his second attempt. 
Chandler Parsons had the chance to ice it at the line for Florida with 3.3 seconds remain­ing. He, too, missed the foul shot. 
Mike Holmes rebounded the miss, and threw a long pass to the streaking Fredrick who laid the ball in as time expired. 
The loss ended the 10-game win streak of Florida (16-3, 3-1). 
Calathes led Florida with 20 points. However, only two of those came in the final 11 minutes as the Gators watched their lead shrink. 
Downey finished with 20 points and Fredrick 15 for South Carolina, which defeated the Gators for the first time since the 2006 regular season. 
Florida got back in the national rankings this week -the SEC's only representative in the top 25 -due in part to its long win streak. 
And it looked as if the Gators did just enough down the stretch to hold off South Carolina and first­year coach Darrin Horn. 
Evaldus Baniulis' fourth and final 3 got the Gamecocks within 62-60. But then Chandler Parsons answered with a 3 of his own and Walter Hodge extended the mar­gin with an inside basket. 
Calathes looked like he had saved the day with his reverse from beneath the basket with 35.4 seconds to go to make it 69-64. 
Then Downey, the SEC's second­leading scorer at 19.6 points a game, shook off a poor shooting night with a floating 3 to set up the crazy fmal moments. 
Fredrick's momentum after the winning bucket carried him into the crowd and his tea!11mates fol­lowed. 
Baniulis had 12 points, all on 3­pointers. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classitleds for content without issuing refunds. 
3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes andersonNDrentals.com FREE Unfurnished 4-bdrm. 3ba,fpl, Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish 4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. close to carnpus. Safe COM CAST! skylights,2-car garage, FR, Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. FoR RENT Neighborhood, cathedral ceilings, deluxe appl, avail. August Starts 6/09. 
fireplace, 2 car garage, 1Ox20 ---------------3 and 4 Bdr. Affordable Graduate and Faculty decks. Why pay for 12 months? Now offer· Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-$850/mo. Off-Campus Housing. Call for ing 1 0-month leases. 5038. Only a few left for 09/10. CES Availability (574)243-2818 or Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-Bluegoldrentals.com Property Management 574-968-574-250-7653. (574)276-6118. 5038. From $1. 700/mo 0112 CESPM.info 
r------------------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 22, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVEits wmE SERVICES page 13 

NBA 
Division I Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team  points  record  
1  Wake Foresl(68)  1793  16-0  
2  Duke (4)  1721  16-1  
3  Conneclicul  1590  16·1  
4  Pittsburgh  1569  16·1  
5  North Carolina  1510  16-2  
6  Oklahoma  1498  17-1  
7  Michigan St.  1394  15·2  
8  Syracuse  1146  17·2  
9  Louisevllle  1090  13·3  
10  Clemson  1043  16·1  
11  Marquette  1003  16-2  
12  Georgetown  979  12·4  
13  UCLA  897  14-3  
14  Texas  858  13·4  
15  Xavier  848  15·2  
16  Buller  726  11M  
17  Arizona St.  671  15-3  
18  Purdue  553  14-4  
19  NOTRE DAME  469  12·5  
20  Villanova  353  14·3  
21  Minnesota  298  16·2  
22  Memphis  208  14·3  
23  Gonzaga  201  12-4  
23  Florida  175  16•2  
25  Illinois  159  15-3  

Division I Women's Track and Field Preseason Rankings 
team points 
1 TexasA&M 149 2 LSU 127 3 Michigan 119 4 Tennessee 117 5 Florida Stale 109 6 Arizona Slate 84 7 Virginia Tech 82 8 Oregon 31 9 Texas Tech 81 10 Minnesota 74 11 Arkansas 69 12 Texas 68 13 Florida 67 14 Penn Stale 67 15 Arizona 66 16 South Carolina 64 11 Stanford 61 18 North Carolina 46 19 UTEP 44 20 Miami (Fla.) 39 21 TCU 37 22 Kentucky 36 23 Alabama 33 24 Nebraska 
. 33 25 Louisville 31 
MIAA Women's Basketball Rankings 
team recotd 
1 SAINT MARY'S 74 2 Hope 7:1 3 Albion 5-3 4 Adrian 4~4 5 Trine 4·4 6 Calvin 4·4 7 Alma 3·5 8 Olivet 2-6 9 Kalamazoo 041 
around the dial 
NBA 
Celtics at Magic 
8:00 p.m., TNT 
Wizards at Lakers 
10:30 p.m, TNT 


Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. ­Wayne Ellington had another big game against Clemson, and No. 5 North Carolina added another year of misery to the lOth-ranked Tigers' streak of futility in Chapel HilL 
Ellington had 25 points to help the Tar Heels beat the Tigers 94·70 on Wednesday night, keep­ing North Carolina per­fect in 54 home games against Clemson. 
Tyler Hansbrough added 20 points for the Tar Heels (17-2, 3-2 Atlantic Coast Conference), whose 54-0 run against the Tigers here is an NCAA record for the longest home winning streak against one opponent. North Carolina took control late in the first half and used a 24-4 run span­ning the break to build an 18-point lead early in the second half. 

Clemson (16-2, 2-2) never got closer than 13 the rest of the way and trailed by as many as 27 points. It was the Tigers' second consecutive defeat after a 16-0 start, following Saturday's home loss to Wake Forest that propelled the Demon Deacons to the No. 1 ranking this week. 
Ellington was coming off a 23-point perform­ance last weekend against Miami in which he hit eight straight shots in the second half, seven from behind the arc, after a slow start to the season. He followed that by picking up where he left off in last year's season-long torture of the Tigers. 
Ellington averaged 29 points in three meetings against Clemson last sea­son, including a career­high 36 and the last-sec­ond 3-pointer on the road for the win in the first meeting. This time, he finished 9-for-15 from the field to go with a career-high seven assists and six rebounds. 
It marked the first time in his career that he's had consecutive 20-point games. 
With Ellington redis­covering his shot, North Carolina's offense looked about as sharp as it has in weeks despite Hansbrough being rela­tively quiet against Clemson's physical front­line until the game was in hand. North Carolina shot 53 percent for the game, while Deon Thompson -after fail­ing to reach double fig­ures in the first four con­ference games -had 15 points. 

IN BRIEF Jeff Kent to announce 
retirement at 40 

LOS ANGELES -Jeff Kent plans to announce his retirement from baseball on Thursday at Dodger Stadium. 
Kent spent 17 years in the major leagues and leaves as the career home­run leader among second basemen with 351, 7 4 more than Ryne Sandberg. 
He spent the last four seasons with the Dodgers, hitting .291 with 122 dou­bles, 75 homers and 311 RBis. Los Angeles issued a statement Wednesday announcing the news conference. 
A five-time All-Star and the 2000 NL MVP, Kent hit .253 during the first half of last season, improved to .353 in August, then injured his knee on Aug. 29 and had surgery four days later. He returned to make the postseason roster, but was relegated to a bench role. He went a combined 0-for-9 with four strikeouts during the two playoff series and became a free agent in November. 
He'll be replaced at second base by Blake DeWitt, who took over when Kent was sidelined. 
Olympic champion
Dementieva into 3rd round 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Olympic champion· Elena Dementieva improved her 2009 winning streak to 12 matches on Thursday, beating Iveta Benesova 6-4, 6-1 to reach the third round of the Australian Open. 
Dementieva, who won titles at Auckland and Sydney before the sea­son's first major, struggled with her serve early but recovered to finish the match in 72 minutes. 
The 27-year-old Dementieva reached the French Open and U.S. Open finals in 2004, beaten both times by fellow Russians, and has not returned to the championship of a Grand Slam tournament since. 
Her highlight last year was a win over fellow Russian Dinara Safina in the gold medal match at the Beijing Olympics. She was ousted in the semifinals at Wimbledon and the U.S. Open in 2008 and has never advanced beyond the fourth round at Melbourne Park. 
Fis:tht between Pacquiao
ana Hatton off for now 
LAS VEGAS Manny Pacquiao's refusal to accept terms already agreed to by his promoter has apparently scuttled the planned May 2 fight between him and Rritish fighter Ricky Hatton. 
Promoters for both fighters said Wednesday the fight is off, with little chance of it being revived. 
"You never say never, but right now it's off," said Bob Arum, who promotes Pacquiao. "Hatton's shopping around for a new oppo­nent now." 
Arurri said the original agree­ment was for the two fighters to split their shares 50-50, with Pacquiao having a $12 million guarantee. That deal fell through when Pacquiao demanded the bigger percentage, and a new agreement called for him to get 52 percent of the purse. 
page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 22, 2009 

,-------------­
Thursday, January 22, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Ryan promises Jets a much brighter future 
Rex Ryan will replace Eric Mangini as the New York Jets' head coach after four seasons as a defensive coordinator 
media for the first time since

Associated Press 
being hired Monday to 

FLORHAM PAHK, N.J. -replace the fired Eric Making one bold declaration Mangini. after another, Rex Ryan gave "We want to be known as his vision for the New York the most physical football Jets: a Super Bowl trophy team in the NFL," Ryan said. and a White House visit. "The players will have each 
"With all the cameras and other's backs, and if you all that, I was looking for our take a swipe at one of ours, new president back there," we'll take a swipe at two of Hyan said with a big, bright yours." smile Wednesday, moments More big statements from 
after  being  the big  man  now  
introduced as the team's head coach.  "You know, I think we'll get to meet [the  in charge of turn­ing around a franchise that's  
"You know," he added, "I think we'll  President] in the next couple years  parched for a title. After spending  
get  to  meet  anyway.  big bucks in the  
him  in  the  offseason, trading  
next couple years any­way."  Rex Ryan Jets coach  for Brett Favre and starting out 8-3 last season,  
Whoa! Talk  the  Jets  were  
about putting  talked about  as  a  
pressure  on  potential  Super  

yourself. After all, this is a Bowl team. Then came the franchise that hasn't been to late-season collapse in which a Super Bowl since his the team lost four of its last father, Buddy, was an assis­five and stunningly missed tant on the 1969 champions. the playoffs. 
''I'm not afraid of expecta­"We expect to win," Ryan tions,'' the 46-year-old Ryan said. "We have a lot of talent said. "My goal is to win a here that's already in place." Super Bowl. It's not to just Several of those players win X number of games." attended Ryan's press con­
And that sounded like the ference, including corner­perfect game plan to an back Darrelle Revis and wide excited Woody Johnson. receiver Jerricho Cotchery, 
"Why else are we here?" who wanted to get a first the Jets owner asked. "Yee­look at their new coach. haw! That's good." "He's relaxed and he's not 
Hyan, Baltimore's defensive tense," Revis said when coordinator the last four asked to compare Ryan with seasons, said all the right Mangini. "He's exciting and things in meeting with the you can just tell he's going to bring a lot of stuff over here that we'll like." 

Whether Favre is a part of this team remains uncertain. The 39-year-old quarterback is mulling retirement again after tearing a biceps muscle and throwing nine intercep­tions in the Jets' last five games. 
"I would think anybody would want him as their quarterback," Ryan said, adding that he planned to speak to each one of the players during the next sev­
eral days, including Favre. league," Ryan said. "I want 
Ryan, who signed a four­to be a better head coach year deal reportedly worth than my father." $11.6 million, has already Buddy Ryan had some started assembling his advice for Rex. coaching staff, announcing "I told him the Jets were that he hired Ravens outside my team, just don't (mess) linebackers them up," Buddy coach Mike Ryan said during Pettine as his "We expect to win. a phone interview defensive with The
We have a lot of 
coordinator. Associated Press.
talent here that's 
Pettine, who The 74-year-old spent seven already in place. Ryan, now retired years as an and living in assistant in Kentucky, said he
Rex Ryan
Baltimore, doesn't expect it
Jets coach
will replace to take long for Bob Sutton. his son to put his 
Offensive own stamp on the line coach team. Bill Callahan and special "He's qualified and certi­teams coordinator Mike fied," Buddy Hyan said. Westhoff will be retained, "They did theirselves a good and Hyan hopes to have favor by hiring him. He's offensive coordinator Brian happy with the job, that's Schottenheimer on his staff. what he wanted." Both Callahan and Rex Ryan, the twin brother Schottenheimer were beaten of Cleveland defensive coor­out for the job by Ryan in a dinator Rob Ryan, has no lengthy interview process by previous head coaching the Jets. Ryan said he would experience, but has been an meet with Schottenheimer assistant at the pro and col­during the next few days. lege levels for more than 20 
It became apparent Ryan years. Nicknamed 'The Mad was at the top of the Jets' Scientist' by his players for list of candidates when sev­his aggressive and unpre­eral other teams filled dictable game plans, Ryan coaching vacancies and New spent the past 10 seasons York's remained open. The with the Havens. Jets needed Baltimore's sea­"The message to the rest of son to end -which hap­the league," he said, "is, pened Sunday with a 23-14 'Hey, the Jets are coming, loss to the Steelers -before and we're going to give you offering him the job. everything we got. And 
"I think you saw a coach think that's going to be more that was very comfortable in than you can handle."' his own skin," Johnson said. Ryan's Baltimore defense 
Ryan sat with beat writers has been ranked in the top in a conference room after six in total yardage allowed the introductory news con­the past four years and led ference for more than a half­the NFL this season with 34 hour, answering questions, takeaways. Hyan prefers to cracking jokes and showing run a 3-4 defensive scheme, off an impressive PowerPoint which the Jets already have presentation detailing the in place. team's goals and philosophy. ''I'm not a one-hit wonder," He also talked about how he Ryan said. "When you look at still sometimes seeks advice my background, I think I've from his father, a longtime been successful at all stops NFL assistant who had head along the way. I know th11 coaching jobs with kind of responsibility it takes Philadelphia and Arizona. to be a head football coach. 
"I know my dad is known Again, you got the right guy as one of the best defensive -and I plan on proving that coaches in thp, history of this each and every week." 

.. : "' 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 22, 2009 
NBA 
Villanueva, Bucks run over Mavericks 
Prince's strong third quarter leads Pistons to win 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE Charlie VIllanueva had 32 points and 10 rebounds and Michael Redd added 27 points, lifting the Milwaukee Bucks to a 133-99 victory over the Dallas Mavericks on Wednesday night and snapping a two-game losing skid. 
The Bucks didn't have Andrew Bogut for the fourth straight game due to back spasms. But after a 1-2 West Coast trip, they didn't need his physical presence or rebounding at home. 
Milwaukee shot 69 percent for the fmal three quarters en route to a season-best 133 points and handed Dallas its worst loss of the season to halt the Mavericks' two-game winning streak. 
Dallas gave up midway through the fourth, with coach Rick Carlisle taking out both Jason Kidd. who finished with 18 points, and Dirk Nowitzki, who went 7 -of-16 from the field and 16-of-17 from the free-throw line to finish with 30. 
The duo even walked onto the court toward the locker room before the final seconds ticked off. 
Ramon Sessions added 21 points and Richard Jefferson scored 15 for Milwaukee. 
Kidd hit a 3-pointer to tie it at 67 early in the third quarter, but Dan Gadzuric, who started with seven straight misses, tipped in a shot and Redd began to fmd his stroke, hitting 3-pointers on three straight possessions to spark a 19-2 run. 
Redd wasn't fmished. 
With Nowitzki guarding him on a switch, the veteran guard did a quick crossover for a little space and then hit a 16-foot jumper while fading to the base­line. 
Then Redd used a pump fake to shake his defender, burying another jumper over Nowitzki. Moments later, Villanueva was left uncovered for a 3-pointer that made it 97-7 6. 
Nowitzki, who had his left thumb taped early in the second quarter, scored 14 points in the third, including a jumper that made it 101-85 heading into the fourth quarter, but Dallas never made a run leaving Mavs owner Mark Cuban shaking his head just behind the bench. 
Detroit 95, Toronto 76 
Tayshaun Prince scored 12 of his 25 points in the third quarter, helping the Detroit Pistons pull away from the Toronto Raptors in a 95-76 win Wednesday night. 
Prince's play overshadowed the story of the game. 
The Pistons used Richard Hamilton as a reserve after the All-Star shooting guard started his first 611 games, including the playoffs, in his seven seasons with the team. 
Detroit coach Michael Curry inserted 6-foot-9 forward Amir Johnson in place of Hamilton and kept superstar Allen Iverson in the starting lineup. 
Chris Bosh had 19 points for the Raptors, who have lost seven straight. 
Prince led a balanced attack for the Pistons, who won their second in a row after losing five consecutive. 
Rodney Stuckey scored 17 points, Jason Maxiell had season highs in points (16) and rebounds (11), Iverson scored 11 and reserve Antonio McDyess had 10 points and eight rebounds. 
Hamilton scored seven points in his first game off the bench since Feb. 1, 2002, when he was playing for the Washington Wizards. The following offsea­son, they traded him to Detroit for Jerry Stackhouse. 
Toronto's Andrea Bargnani scored 16 points and reserve Jermaine O'Neal had 11 points, playing for just the second time in 13 games. O'Neal has been slowed by a sore right knee. 
The slumping Raptors got ofT to a solid start, leading 22-17 after the first quarter and trail­ing by three at halftime. 
Prince helped the Pistons dom­inate in the third as they outscored Toronto 30-19 to earn a cushion big enough to set up an easy fourth quarter. 
Hornets 102, New Jersey 92 
Chris Paul narrowly missed his fifth triple-double of the season with 29 points, nine rebounds and eight assists, and the New Orleans Hornets defeated the New Jersey Nets 102-92 on Wednesday night. 
Peja Stojakovic had 20 points and 10 rebounds. 
Vince Carter scored 20 for the Nets, who lost their fourth straight, unable to take advan­tage of the absence of Hornets starters Tyson Chandler (left ankle) and David West (back spasms). 
Stojakovic adjusted his perimeter game to make up for the Hornets' lack of size, sneak­ing inside to grab double-digit rebounds for the first time all season. 
Rasual Butler added 14 points for New Orleans, which has won three straight. Julian Wright had 11 points and James Posey 10. 
Bobby Simmons scored 16 points for the Nets and Keyon Dooling added 12, while rookie Ryan Anderson grabbed a career-high 10 rebounds and Jarvis Hayes added 10 points. 
New Orleans put the Nets in a deep hole with a 16-2 run that started with Melvin Ely's reverse layup early in the third quarter. Stojakovic and Posey each added 3-pointers during the spurt and Paul converted a spinning layup as he was grabbed by Carter, though no foul was called. 
It was a poor start for the Nets, who started 3-of-12 from the field and turned the ball over five times, including three times on offensive fouls. 
Down by 15 in the fmal period, the Nets made one last charge with a 9-2 run ignited by Dooling's third 3 of the game and capped by Carter's putback, cutting New Orleans' lead to 91­85 with 3:33 left. 
After Paul hit a pull-up in the lane, Simmons' third 3 of the game cut it to 93-88 with 2:24 to go. New Jersey missed its next two shots, and Paul hit a run­ning floater as he was fouled with 59 seconds left, giving New Orleans a 96-88 lead. Paul then added a fast-break, one-handed dunk to punctuate his dominant night. 
NFL 

Ward ready for Super Bowl 
Steelers share with Pitt. "He 
Associated Press 
asks me questions to this day. 
PITTSBUHGH -Hines He'll text me and ask me Ward is so certain his about certain defensive backs sprained knee won't keep and what not. He's a great 
him out of the Super Bowl, he "He was always asking believes he 
me stuff He asks me 
could play 
questions to this day. 
this week if necessary. He's a great student of T h e 
the game and he's got 
Pittsburgh 
tons oftalent.
Steelers wide receiv­er didn't Hines Ward miss a game 
Steelers wide receiver 
to injury all season, and he said 
student of the game and he's got tons of talent." 
Fitzgerald has set an NFL postsea­son record with 419 yards receiv­ing in three games and the Super Bowl still to play. 
"l-Ie's very 
Wednesday he's not about to excited to be on the biggest miss a Super Bowl. Especially stage in the Super Bowl," one against his former prac­Ward said of tice field acquaintance, Larry Fitzgerald, 
ning back Willie Parker miss­ing four games earlier this season. But with nearly two weeks to rest before the Feb. 1 game in Tampa, Ward is confident he will play. 
"Just have to wait for the swelling to go down," Ward said. "But (I) should be ready to go. I'll be OK. It feels good, it feels better than it did yes­terday." 
Ward was injured during the first quarter of the AFC championship game against Baltimore on Sunday and did not play most of the final three quarters. 
"I said, 'Where's Hines? He must really be hurt, beeause of how tough he is," corner­back Deshea Townsend said. "Two weeks? That's too many days for him to miss a 

Fitzgerald. who pre­"Just have to wait for the game." Ward became friends with dicted while Left tackle
swelling to go down. But
the Arizona Cardinals' All­in college he Max Starks Pro receiver when Fitzgerald would play {/} should be ready to go. said he played at Pitt, and the two in the Super I'll be OK. It feels good, it played with a have stayed in touch. When B o w I . tear in his
feels better than it did 
both teams won their confer­"Hopefully meniscus, not
yesterday.
ence championship games we can con­just a sprain, Sunday, they exchanged text tain him during the messages. and not let Steelers' last
Hines Ward 
"lie texted me the other day him go Super Bowl.
Steelers wide receiver 
"A sprained 
knee is a rel­
ative term, 
especially with the braces they have now, the technology," Starks said. "He might not be able to move as fast but, knowing Hines, I can't see him not playing. Maybe if somebody had a big tear, but to have a sprain and to have two weeks off, most guys can usually come back from that." 
Jesus Christ 

and it was like, 'Let us win, you already have a ring,"' Ward said. "My response is, 'I want two rings."' 
Ward went to several Pitt games when Fitzgerald played for the Panthers in 2002-03, and he realized immediately how good the young receiver was. 
"He was always asking me stuff," said Ward, who regu­larly bumped into Fitzgerald in the practice facility the wild." 
Ward isn't the down­field threat Fitzgerald is, but he is one of the NFL's most consistent receivers and was the Super Bowl MVP three years ago when the Steelers beat Seattle. 
Ward's injury -a sprained medial collateral ligament ­can sideline a player for an extended period, with run-
South Bend Paul Aldrich Tim Wilson 
Symphony Orchestra  Family Comedian  with Stewart Huff  Superstar  
Beethoven to Brahms  100% Clean &Funny Bob &Tom Comedian  Broadway Musical  
Saturday, Jan. 24  Friday, Jan. 30.  Saturday, Jan. 31  Wednesday, Feb.11  

UP£Uminl! 'hUW§ 
Thursday, January 22, 2009 

Defense 
continued from page 17 
struggle with finding their game defensively against St. John's last Saturday, playing an accordion-style game where they could not put the Red Storm away, despite an 11­
point second half "We have the fight a double-digit, second-half
lead. and the drive and we 
After that comeback
just kept pushing

game, the against a remarks cen­today." stronger team in tered on the abil­the conference ity of the team to will not be so
Ashley Barlow 

"fight" to stg.y easily salvage­
Irish guard 

alive in that able in the com-and should have -beaten by more than three points. 
With trips to Pittsburgh­who knocked Notre Dame out of the Big-East tournament a sea­son ago -and top-ranked Connecticut remaining in the Big East schedule, the team will have to find a way to deal with a lead much better than it did 
against St. 
John's. Allowing 

game. 
"We have the fight and the drive and we just kept pushing today," guard Ashley Barlow said in the post-game news con­ference Saturday. 
"We had to keep fighting, and if we wouldn't have fought, it definitely WOJ,Jidn't have been pretty," freshman forward Erica Solomon said. 
It is easy to say that the Irish have that fighting spirit-and even easier after a gutsy victory like the one Saturday-but the real question is "Why wasn't it there earlier in the game?'' The younger players need to under­stand quickly that you can't start fighting once the game is close and late, but from the first whistle to the last. Letting teams back into games when they don't deserve to be is the best way to start losing. 
The Irish are lucky that their opponent Saturday was only St. John's. That is not to say the Red Storm are a bad team, but in this year's Big East, they are a team the Irish could have ­ing weeks. 
For point guard Melissa Lechlitner, it is a matter of when -not if-the team will find its defensive energy and intensity. 
"[The freshmen] all have [a killer instinct], it's just a matter of it coming at the right time and each person having the con­fidence to just know it's game time and we have to get that win no matter what," she said. 
But on a team as young and injured as the Irish are (having only one senior and lost two players to ACL injuries), they will need to find that quickly for the team to survive the upcom­ing conference schedule. Waiting around for the younger players to realize when they need to play hard will lead to more nailbiters -and not all of them can fall Notre Dame's way. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at ffitzpa5@nd. edu 
NHL 

Blues top host Blackhawks 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Chris Mason 
and the St. Louis Blues put in 
all together for a night. 
Mason made 21 saves for his 
second shutout of the season, 
and Jeff Woywitka and Keith 
Tkachuk scored in the Blues' 
2-0 victory over Chicago on 
Wednesday night. 
Mason was not heavily tested in earning his 14th career shutout as the injury-depleted Blues outworked Chicago and limited the Blackhawks' chances. 
"In order for us to be suc­cessful, we have to work very hard and we did that tonigh.t," ·Mason said. "We did a great job in our zone, did a great job on the penalty kill and did 
what it took tonight. 
"They let me see the shots, 
cleared the rebounds, were 
tough in front of the net, they 
were tough in the corners, 
they cleared the puck. We just 
battled hard and we're start­
ing the see the results." 
The Blues have the fewest 
points in the Western 
Conference -and seven play­
ers on injured reserve, includ­
ing forwards Paul Kariya and 
Andy McDonald, and defense­
man Eric Brewer and Erik 
Johnson. On Wednesday night, 
they made up for it with con­
sistent effort and close check­
ing. 

"Tonight I thought we played 
smart, took their space away," 
St. Louis coach Andy Murray 
said. "We wanted to come into 
this building (the United 
Center), which has a great deal 
of energy, .and wanted to suck 
it up." 1 
Cristobal Huet made 27 
saves for Chicago, shut out at 
home -and before a 23rd 
sellout crowd in 23 games this 
season -for the first time 
since March 12, 2008. The 
Blackhawks have lost two 
straight games at United 
Center in regulation to drop to 
14-4-5 at home. 
Mason made one of his few tough saves just 2:45 into the first, stopping Andrew Ladd from the edge of the crease. The goalie needed to be alert during goalmouth serums a . few times in the second and third, but Chicago generated 
little sustained pressure. 
The Blackhawks entered the 
game averaging 3.45 goals, 
but have scored just five in 
their last four. After going 10­
1-1 in December, they're 5-5-1 
in January. 
"We didn't come out playing 
the way we should have for 
consecutive nights," Chicago 
captain Jonathan Toews said. 
"We know what kind of team 
we are, we showed it in 
December. We want to keep 
going down that path." 
On Wednesday, the 
Blackhawks were clearly 
detoured. 
"We're disappointed with 
tonight's effort," Chicago coach 
Joel Quenneveille said. "You 
can use a lot of different words to describe tonight's game. Bad would be one." 
"I think we're getting sick and tired of people telling us how good we are instead of how hard we worked," he added. "I think that's what.'s going to get us out of it." 
Thanks to three power-play chances -including a 5­minute advantage set up by a major penalty to Chicago's Cam Barker for a hit on David Backes -the Blues outshot the Blackhawks 16-3 in the first period. However, they led only 1-0 after 20 minutes. 
The Blues didn't beat Huet until Woywitka scored a power-play goal on their 16th shot with 1:55 left in the first. Woywitka's drive from the point slid over lluet's left pad and into the net. 
Following a scoreless second, Chicago's Matt Walker poked a rebound of his own shot under Mason and into the net at 2:46 of the third. The goal was not allowed, however, because one of the referees had whistled the play dead when Mason covered the original shot with his pad. 
Tkachuk made it 2-0 during a 4-on-4 at 7:28 of the third. From the edge of the crease, he stuffed a shot between Huet's pads. 
A shot by Chicago's Martin Havlat hit the post at 10:33 of the third. Mason made a point­blank save on Dave Bolland during a Chicago power-play with 4:25 left. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 22, 2009 
get any easier going forward, with a road series against fifth­

CCHA 
place Nebraska-Omaha this continued from page 20 weekend. 
next night. Alaska (25 pts, 11-8-5, 9-7-4­
3) 

Notre Dame (32 pts, 19-3-3, Picked to finish 11th in the 13-2-3-3) conference by both the coaches What more can you say? The and the media, the Nanooks Irish are pretty good. have been the surprise of the -Riding a school-record 20-CCHA so far. Alaska has played game unbeaten two more streak, Notre games than Dame is clearly both teams the team to beat What more can you ahead of them, in the CCHA. say? The Irish are but could still Senior Christian · find itself in
pretty good. Riding a

Hanson and soph­contention for a
school-record

omore Calle top-four spot, Ridderwall are 20-game unbeaten with two road the top two in the games at Ohio
streak, Notre Dame is 

conference in State the only
clearly the team to test

points scored, and real senior netminder beat in the CCHA. remaining on Jordan Pearce is the schedule~ second in goals-First year against average. coach Dallas Ferguson's squad 
The only quality wins during has gotten the job done with an the 20-game run, however, have air-tight defense that leads the been a Nov. 7 win at Boston CCI-IA, giving up only 1.55 goals College and a home sweep of per game, and goalie Chad Alaska on Jan. 9-10. Jeff Jackson leads the league in both Jackson's squad will be tested GAA and save percentage. over the next two weeks, with a A top-four s·pot would be home-and-home against rival especially advantageous for the Michigan and a series at fourth­Nanooks, as it would require place Ofiio State. their second-round CCIIA play­
off opponent to travel all the Miami (Ohio) (25 pts, 13-8-3, way to Fairbanks for their 11-5-2-1) series. 
Despite Notre Dame's 20­game run, the RedHawks have Ohio State (22 pts, 16-6-2, 9­given the Irish little room to 5-2-2) breath atop the standings. The Buckeyes have also sur­
Sophomore Carter Camper prised the league this season, leads the squad with 14 goals after finishing last year in 11th and 30 points, and the fresh­place. man goaltending duo of Connor Riding a 1<)-game unbeaten Knapp and Cody Reichard have streak, Ohio State is second in provided a solid backing to the the CCIIA in scoring offense, RedHawk defense that leads the netting 3.31 goals per game. CCHA in killing penalties. Having played at least two 
Despite their hot start, Miami fewer games than all three has struggled recently, going 1-teams above them. the only 5-0 over their last six games, question is whether a Buckeye with a Jan. 17 win over team with only four upperclass­Michigan State as the lone men can withstand the pres­bright spot. The road doesn't sures of late-season conference 

WU YUE!The Observer 

Senior Karol Kostka, right, competes at last year's Midwest Fencing Championships, held at Notre Dame on Feb. 24, 2008. 
anyone who tries to fence 
against us. "What the end result will be I don't know. I can't promise. 

compete now with the best But I know only that our kids collegiate teams in the are ready to fence." nation," Bednarski said. "We are probably not the No. 1 Contact Christopher Masoud at team, but we will challenge cmasoud@nd.edu 
Youngsters 


garries. 

The road isn't easy either, with two games each against Notre Dame, Miami. Michigan, and Alaska. 
Nebraska-Omaha (22 pts, 13­8-4, 8-6-4-2) 
The Mavericks have also taken advantage of a relatively easy early-season schedule to propel to the top of the confer­ence. 
Without a win against a top­four team this season, Nebraska-Omaha will be tested in upcoming matchups against Miami, Michigan, and Notre Dame. 
Michigan (20 pts, 16-8-0, 10­6-0-0) 
Casual college hock1~y fans may be surprised to see the Wolverines this low in the standings, but after losing some key players from last year's Frozen Four team, Red Berenson's team has undergone some understandable growing pains. However, after back-to­hack wins against Miami on Jan. 10 and 11, the Maize and Blue appear ready to make a late season push. Games against Notre Dame, Nebraska-Omaha, and Ohio Stat£1 stand out as potential roadblocks to Michigan's quest for a second consecutive CCI-IA title. 
Ferris State (17 pts, 10-11-5, 7-8-3-0) 
With a relatively easy sched­ule the rest of the way, the Bulldogs seem poised to make a run towards a top-four spot. Only a final-weekend series against Michigan could pose a problem. With their defensive trapping style of play, Ferris State has the potential to take down any team in the CCHA playofTs. 
Lake Superior State (13 pts, 6­10-8, 3-7-6-1); Michigan State (12 pts, 7-14-3, 4-10-2-2) 
The Lakers and disappointing Spartans, picked to finish fifth in the CCHA by the coaches, are fighting for the eighth seed and the right to host a first-round CCHA playoff series. 
Bowling Green (11 pts, 8-13-3, 5-10-1-0); Northern Michigan (11 pts, 6-13-3, 3-10-3-2); Western Michigan (11 pts, 6­13-5, 3-9-4-1) 
While anything can happen in the conference tournament, the Falcons, Wildcats, and Broncos appear to pose little threat to any of the top teams. The sea­son has been especially disap­pointing for Northern Michigan, who was picked to finish fourth in the CCIIA after a third-place showing in last year's tourna­ment. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 



Thursday, January 22, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WWW.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

I can't believe it tinally I just hope we don't get happened. I fed like we've dissappointed, expectations been waiting so long. are so high right now. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
Jru)J~
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one tetter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DUSEE ± 
ATTIR 
j

rr I I
1 


HOW THE FARME:R
tHALIDA 
KNE:W THE: COWS WE:Re: RE:AOY FOR MIL.KING. 

J [J I I 
I HERNET j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ r (J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: HE [ 

I I I I )THE [ I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: SMOKY LOFTY GLOOMY LOTION Answer: When he was told about the hole in the walt, . the cop said he'd -"LOOK" INTO IT 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
Across 34 Fruit used in 65 Slippery one? "Numb3rs" alrer 66 Harnesses
English jelly 

4 Bearded 35 Slippery one 67 Like the sun 
9 tn _ (quickly) 36 Subject of 68 Davy Jones's 
Exodus 20:10 locker, with "the"

14 Where to go In Greenwich? 
40 ··can't fool me!" Down
41 _ fides (bad faith) Listing in a high· 

15 It may be tragic 
16 They start in the school yearbook 
43 Cause of a scare 2 Something to 

middle 
17 Keeper of 
pick

confidential 44 Daisylike tJower information 3 Part ol many a
46 With SO-Across, 20 Noodle what a keeper of drink order confidential 4 Bearer of cones
21 Sneaking information 5 Inverse trig 22 Wrongs might say function23 The last King 50 Leeway
Edward of 6 "Enough!"51 Unoccupied
England 7 Part of a famous 52 Scammer's skill 
25 "0 terra. addio," septet 55 Certain
e.g. 8 Alter, in a wayqualifications
26 Like a keeper of 9 Wllh French. confidential 56 Djlnn's home in 
one of two information a popular tale 
official 32 Title role for 60 See 46-Across languages of Puzzle by Mtchael Vuolo Valentino 63 Bring out Chad 
30 Singer/songwriter 42 Tranquil 55 Home of Private 33_ MajeS1y 64 Buck lor a song? 10 Porsche Leonard Ryan in "Saving 
45 Hard case

alternatives Private Ryan"
31 Sophomores. 
47Tapenade

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Day of destiny 57 First side to vote
e.g. 
Ingredients

-::T-=-r~~, 12 Numismatist's 58 Spicy chocolate 
32 Rest stop sight 48 Out of tune sauceclassification 37 Wear away, as a 59 Big brand in 

13 They may be 49 Bearish
metallic surface athletic footwear thrown 52 Legislature

38 Factor in a wine 61 Rocky peak 18 Poetic coda rating 53 Icelandic volume 62 Cause of19 Most prized, 
39 Bad feeling? 54 Confidant tripplng?
often 

24 Gets to For answ!ffs, calll-900·285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credll card, 1-800·814·5554.
25 Part of a famous 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday septet crosswords !rom the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles. or visit
"':+:-:t'±-:-i 26 Stack of papers 

nytimes.comtmobilexword for more information. ~.:,.:.t..:,:.t.;:;+=-t~:.:..f.=+~ 27 • never!" Online subscriptions:,Today·s puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).
28 "Yippee!" 

Share tips: nytimes.com!Wordplay. ...:...~,.=..t,.;;.;.--.;:;..a...:...&.::..A.:.:.~L.:..I 29 Lift up Crosswords lor young solvers: nytlmes.comlteaminglxwords. 
-=+=+':-liilii7B8~':=-f 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address _____________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoROSCOPE 

CELEBRIJIES BOR~ ON T~IS DAY: Alexa Vega, 20; Sarah Chalke, 32;
Chandra W1!son, 39; Wllly DeVIlle, 58 Il.appy Birthday: Bring on the charm and you will win your way inlo what· 
ever Situation YI)U desire. Partnerships of an kinds will flourish. You will be the one to put things back in order and make them work. Know your value and you Will be respected aud rewarded. Your numbers are 5, 20, 26, 32, 39 
ARmS (March ll·Aprll 19): Today you must bide your time, enjoy every moment <~;nd savor the simple pleas!Jres .in life. [f you get ~11 Wf!IPJX~d up in 
what's gomg on around you, ~ou Will m1ss out-on conne.ctmg wttb someone who can change your world. ~ stars 
T"URUS (April ZO-May 10): Something good wi.IJ come out of booki~g upwtth someone you used to know. Your openness to share your current Situa­tion and challenges will result in some liands-on help a11d a boost to your ego 
and your cash flow. 4 stars . · 
GEMINI (May Zl-.June 20): Don't let love or an emotional matter ~tand in the way ofyour plans. It's getting caught up in the melodrama that others 
want to inflict ou you that will bC your downfalL Nothing is more importantthan reaching your goals. 4 stars 
CANCER (June Zl-July ZZ): Be ltnnest about the waY, you feel, even if it 
does make you vulnerable. It's that very qual.ity that wtl£ help you win favors. Someone will recognize your sensitivity and honesty and want to be a part of 
your world. 3. stars 

LEO (July 23-Aug. Zl): A change in your status or a gift or unexpe.cted con­tribution will make your day. Your strength will come from your ability to entertain everyone 'll>'ho bas anything to offer you. It's a good day to seal 
deals, collect nebts and chal.lenge tlie competition. 3 stars 
VIRGO (AUJ:. 23-Sept.ll): Your willingne.ss to help the underdog will put you ahead onmyone wbo challenges you today. Love is i.n the stars and the chance of making alterations to your personal life that will change your
future fur good are Iuoking positive. 4 stars 
LIBRA {Sept. 23·0ct. 22): Don't let your emotions get involved in what youhave to do or you will fall short of what's expected of you. Take a different appruach. Derve into a self-awareness program !hat will enable you to make personal improvcmt~nh to your life. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. lJ.Nov. 21): Your unique way of explaining the way things 
can work will capture an aud1ence and lead to achieving your goals. A change in your ~rsonal life and status is apparent. Open up ltl suggestions
but d'on't cheat. 5 stars 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 21-1>«. ll): Instant payback may ar.pear to be head­ing your way but someone is likely to intervene if you have 'Eleen loo vocal. 
Keep things to yourself until after the fact when you know everything is 
signed, sealed and delivered. 3 stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. ll·J.au. 19): Give whatever it takes to gel your ~r­sonal life working for you. You will find a way by searching through what you have that will make a difference to someone you want to please. Travel 
for busines~ and you will prosper. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (.Jan.lO-Feb. 18): Don't let anyone push his or her responsi­hihties in your lap. You havt~ to do your share but, once you have taKen care 
of business, all(JW yourself a little tune to pursue your interests. An emo­tional connectitln II.'ill be made. 3 ~tars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A partnership that you tried to form in the past can now be put together. RevJve an olaidea that bas far more leverageand possibilities nuw tlian in the past Socialize for business purpuses. 5 
starS 

Eugenia'• w~b sites: a;stroodvice.com for jun. eugenialast.com for conjidNllia/ comultaliom 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, January 22, 2009 
page 20 
HocKEY 
Top of the heap 
Irish lead C.CHA, but plenty ofgames to play 
By SAM WERNER Sports Wrirer 
With only a third of the sea­son remaining in CCHA play, the conference standings are beginning to take shape. 
The important cutoffs are between fourth and fifth place and eighth and ninth place. 
The top four teams receive a first-round bye and host a sec­ond-round series in the CCHA playoffs, and the next four seeds host a first-round confer­ence playoff series. 
The CCHA tournament's first round is set for the weekend of March 6-8, and the second round follows the next week­end. Each of the first two rounds consists of a best-of­three series. 
The final four teams will trav­el to Detroit. where the semifi­nals will be held on March 20 at Joe Louis Arena -home of the NHL's Detroit Red Wings. The CCHA tournament champi­onship game will be played the 
see CCHA/page 18 


FENCING 
Underclassmen helping young squad to strong start 
three gold medals and a com­sions. women's epee and men's foil Equally impressive was . By CHRISTOPHER MASOUD bined five top-five finishes at Zuck batlled through a field respectively. Meinhardt, an Hurley's performance, the 
Sports Wri rer 
the competition held in of 113 athletes in the sabre Olympian in Beijing, is coming younger sister of Olympian Kentucky. for a first-place title, while off a recent knee surgery that Kelley Hurley. 
After yet another impressive "We never had such a good fellow sophomoro Barron sidelinPd him for the greater Bednarski's young stars still performance at the North result like this year," seventh­Nydam finished tiPd for third. part of the preseason. have a long way to go before American Cup D last week­year coach Janusz Bednarski Senior Karol Kostka's experi­"After competing in the the 2012 Olympics in London. end, the talented cast of said of last weekend's tourna­ence ensured him a fifth-place Olympic Games, it's natural to but they appear ready for thP freshmen and sophomores is ment. "We won a lot of f'inish in a record l'inld of 245 be off for a couple of weeks in start of intercollegiatfl play emerging as the backbone of medals, that's a positivP of in the epee. the presnason." Bednarski this week. the promising Irish squad. this competition. I believe that But the freshman combo of said. "OthPrs are already in "They are positioning them­
Led by sophomore Avery it was one of the best starts in Hurley and Meinhardt stole the middle of the run and they selves well for the national Zuck and freshmen G.erek national tryouts for the Irish." tho show, earning first-place have to catch up. But on the team. but we are ready to Meinhardt and Courtney The Irish were successful in finishes in both the open and men's sido, Gerok Meinhardt Hurley, the Irish took home the men's sabre· and epee divi-junior categorins in the is one of the best." see YOUNGSTERS/page 18 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL ANALYSIS 
Defense will determine course of tean1' s season 
If Notre Dame wants to stay on Jan. 13, in a game in which near the top of the Big East, it Irish coach Muffet McGraw said will need to fmd its defensive her team played without a solid rhythm. effort. 
The Irish have only two losses "I think we lost our commit­so far this ment to the defensive end of the season, but Jay Fitzpatrick floor. We did not play our nor­in their last mal game defensively. They got two games, Sports Writer a lot of easy shots and that was they have disappointing," McGraw said in played Jack-an interview Jan. 14. luster at times under their own But the Irish continued to basket. The team's first loss in the Big East came at Marquette see DEFENSE/page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 
MIAA leaders win again 
By ALEX. WEST 
Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's started its !'our­game road trip the right way Wednesday night, cruising to a 81-63 road victory over winless Kalamazoo. 
Senior forward Erin Newsom and freshman guard Patsy Mahoney each scored 14 points to help the Belles (9-7, 7-1 MlAA) stay atop the conference stand­ings. 
The Belles jumped out to a 17­4 lead after just live minutes and never trailed. 
The Hornets were able to cut the lead to eight with six minutes to play in the tirst half, but the Bolles responded with a 15-8 run to take a 44-29 half'time lead. 
In the second· half, the Belles put the game away early, leading by 23 with 14 minutes to play in the contest. The Hornets never cut the gap closer than 18 poinL<; lor the rest of the contest. 
Offense wasn't a probh~m for the Belles with four players scor­ing in double ligures. 
Liz Wade also added seven assisL<; and recorded six steals to • help out def(msively. 
The Hornets' Andrea Bedway led all scorers with 22 points. 
The Belles followed through on head coach Jenn Henley's prom­ise to focus on defense, holding the Hornets to shoot less than 40 percent from the field. The Belles also forced 36 turnovers in the game. 
The Belles play their second game of their road trip Saturday ' at Trine. Saint Mary's' next home contest is Feb. 4 against Olivet. 
Contact AJex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 






