
The Independent Newspaper Serving Noire Dame and Saint Marys 
ESPN to broadcast live at game 
Joyce Center doors will open at 9 p.m, allowing students to camp out for basketball seats 

By CHRIS HINE News Writer 
Some Notre Dame students got a special treat as they sat down to dinner Wednesday night in South Dining Hall ­former Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps visired their tables, encouraging them to show up for the ESPN College Gameday's live broad­cast from the Joyce Center Saturday from 11 a.m. to 12 
p.m and then to No. 19 Notre Dame's basketball game against No. 3 Connecticut at 7 p.m. 
"They couldn't believe I was there," Phelps said. "I stood 


Panelists 
•

exaiTIIne porn culture 
GRC held talk to help unite faith and sexuality 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
New~ Writer 

Pornography has become ubiq­uitous in today's culture, pan­elists said at a lecture Thursday titled "Pornucopia: Living in a Pornified Culture." 
Five panelists took part in the discussion, sponsor~d by the Gender Relations Center, to examine the issue of integrating 
faith and sexuality in  a  modern  
"pornified" culture.  
Gail Bederman,  an  associate  

professor of history at the University of Notre Dame, dis­cussed the beginning of modern pornography. 
Modern pornography has exist­ed for about 300 years, Bederman said, since the end of the 17th century. As people began to be considered part of a commercial­ized world, where commodities could be bought and sold, the meaning of sexual arousal changed and the circulation of sexualized images increased. But sexual images had been around for much longer, Bederman said. 
"The circulation and use of sex­ually explicit images is by no means a new thing," she said. "You can go back to ancient Greece, ancient Rome and sexual images were there." 
Rick Garnett, a professor of law at Notre Dame, covered the topic of protection of pornography under federal law. 
"Pornography, as a rule, is con-
see PORN/page 4 
up on a couple chairs and give a big loud speech and then I went around from table to table to say 'Hey, get your dorm there. I want everybody there.'" 
Phelps, who's a co-host of the show, was passing out fliers featuring a picture of well-known ESPN reporter Erin Andrews that said "She'll be there Saturday! Will you?" 
Phelps even popped his head in one dorm where University President Fr. Jenkins was giv­ing a talk. Phelps said Jenkins spotted him in the back of the room, and called on him to give his basketball spiel. IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Luke Harangody cheers at the Seton Hall game. College Gameday see ESPN/page 6 will broadcast NO basketball for the first time ever Saturday. 



Law School addition complete 

Renovations now underway on old Law School building 
By SARAH MERVOSH News Writer 
Walking across Notre Dame's 
campus, one will most likely 
run into unfinished buildings, 
closed off paths and hear the 
sounds of large trucks or boul­
ders echoing across the quad. 
Several major construction 
projects are taking place on 
campus, including a nearly $58 
million project on the Law 
School addition, said Craig 
Tiller, Senior Project Manager 
at the University Architect 
Office. 
The new Law School build-
A student studies in the new Law School addition, which 
see LAW/page 6 is now complete. The renovations cost nearly $58 million. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Ne-wCarrer Center site launched 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
In the current less-than-stel­lar economic situation, finding a job is a difficult task to under­take. This task is even harder for young college graduates just making their debuts in the work force, so Notre Dame's Career Center is trying to alle­viate some of that pressure. 
Associate Director Kevin Monahan said the Career Center has begun to use www.linkedin.com, a profes­sional networking site geared at connecting past alum with recent graduates. The Career Center began using this Web site in September of 2007, but it's just now starting to "grow in leaps and bomids," Monahan said. 
"This site focused on profes­sional relationships," he said. "Students were wondering, 'How can I connect?' This site helps them connect with alum­ni, who join because they want to help and connect with recent graduates." 
These alumni are eager to help, Monahan said. 
"Building relationships ­that's what it's all about," he said. _ 
The Web site is very easy to search, and many criteria can help sort through the data, Monahan said. 
"There are almost 6, 700 alumni listed," he said. Setting up a profile on the Web site only takes a few min-
see CAREER/page 4 

220 ND students attend protest 


More than 200,000 participants marched against abortion on the National Mall 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
WASHINGTON -The 220 Notre Dame students who attended the 36th annual March for Life in Washington, 
D.C. Thursday sensed new energy and purpose in the wake of the recent inaugura­tion and were met with mean­ingful support, marchers said. 
"There was a lot more ener­gy in how the politicians at the rally were speaking," said junior Mary Daly, Notre Dame Right to Life club president 
Onlookers were thrilled to see Notre Dame marching 220 strong. 
"Walking along, people were cheering for us, calling out support," Daly said. "They'll come up and ask us how many people we brought. People are always very impressed and glad to see us there." 
High school junior Colin Cortes of Chicago, Ill. said he e~oyed seeing Notre Dame's strong presence at the march. 
"I loved seeing Notre Dame there, really representing what a Catholic university should be, especially now that a lot of Catholic universities don't value church teachings. It's great to see Notre Dame standing up for them," Cortes said. 
see MARCH/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, January 23, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Inauguration 

Sensation 
WASHINGTON -When I arrived at the Cannon 
House Office Building Monday morning to help my 
father, who was recently elected to represent New 
York's 13th District, a long line of people waiting to 
receive tickets to Obama's was already stretching 
down the street. 
By mid-afternoon, 
the wait was three 

hours. Joseph McMahon Luckily, I was able to use the ID card issued Assistant News to Congressional fami­
Editor 
ly members to bypass 
the security check. 

The inauguration presented a challenge to my 
father's new team, since immediately after Nov. 4 his 
office was flooded by thousands of ticket requests from 
constituents. 

But the line outside of the Cannon building was 
dwarfed by the crowds I awoke to early the next 
morning. 

It seemed that the entire city of Washington was 
packed with people in town to witness the inaugura­
tion of America's first black president. My parents 
were invited to a breakfast in the Capitol and sat in 
comfortable s~ats during the swearing-in (my moth­
er's seats were so good, she bragged about sitting next 
to Beyonce, Jay-Z.). 

My Aunt Linda and I were left to brave the crowds 
together. 

The tickets were color-coded, and my aunt and I 
were lucky enough to have yellow tickets which would 
give us an excellent view of the event. But when we 
arrived at the yellow gate at 9 a.m., we soon realized 
the yellow section was not as exclusive as we had 
imagined. It took us 20 minutes just to walk to the 
back of the line, and we were afraid we wouldn't get 
inside. 

As the line progressed, we passed a number of ven­
dors attempting to sell Obama merchandise. Before 
Tuesday, I had never realized how much useless stuff 
could be sold at ridiculous prices simply by putting a 
man's face on it. Everything one could imagine, from 
Obama t-shirts and hats to buttons and calendars to 
Obama pretzels and condoms, was available. 
We waited for two and a half hours and went 
through the airport-esque security check before we 
finally arrived at our section. The view was much bet­
ter than I could have imagined, and I was clearly able 
to see the former presidents paraded out onto the bal­
cony before Obama and his family arrived. 
The event itself was relatively short, and after an 
opening by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Rick Warren 
gave an uninspiring invocation that left some in the 
crowd next to me questioning his selection as a speak­
er, followed by music from Aretha Franklin. The 
crowd really responded well to the classical perform­
ance arranged by John Williams and featuring Yo-Yo 
Ma. 

Many in the media have labeled Obama's inaugural address as uninspiring, especially when compared with his other speeches and the past inaugural addresses of some presidents. But the speech was truly unique in that it addressed the concrete issues that America faces. Facing one of the largest crowds ever addressed by a single public speaker, Obama seized upon the opportunity to challenge the American people by pointing to the troubles ahead. 
One image that will always stick in my mind was turning around to see the one million plus Americans standing behind me on the National Mall waving flags. For those and many Americans, Obama has become more than simply a leader. The inauguration marked the rise of a man who has become a cultural icon. 
As we shuffled through the crowd and toward the gate after the ceremony, my aunt and I bumped into her boss, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. After yelling toward him, the mayor turned toward my aunt, who serves as one of his deputy mayors. 
"Hello, Linda," he said. "Don't forget, tomorrow is a work day." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer reg:Kds i rself as a professional publication and strives for the .highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT TIME WILL YOU BE GETTING TO GAME DAY ON SATURDAY? 


Jaclyn Espinoza 
junior Pasquerilla West 
"I don't sleep. I'm always ready.'' 



Icicles form on campus trees after a cold spell hit South Bend last week when temperatures dipped below zero, causing students to bundle up. 
OFFBEAT 
Landlord removes tenant's toilet SPHING VALLEY, 
N.Y. -A New York landlord accused of removing the toilet and other fixtures from a basement apartment to get a tenant to move out has been fined nearly $10,000. The Rockland Board of Health issued the fine 
to  Fausto  Pinos  of  
Bushkill,  Pa.,  on  
Wednesday.  

Pinos did not appear at the meeting, but his brother, Jesus Pinos, speaking on his behalf, 
TODAY 
....I 
< ..... (,) 0 HIGH 34 

LOW 13 
said the landlord did not dispute the charges. He said Pinos thought that removing the toilet, a bathtub, kitchen sink, stove, oven and countertop from the Spring Valley, N.Y., apartment would force the woman and her child to move. 
It is not clear why the landlord wanted her evicted. 
Man misses bus because of dancing with strangers 
SOUTH BEND-An 83-year-old South Bend man said he 
missed his bus home from the ·presidential inauguration because he was dancing. Mussa Muhammad said his "spirit jumped sky-high" when President Barack Obama took the oath of office Tuesday. He became separated from his group and, he said, "just danced and danced" with a couple of young women he met along the way. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

Kevin Dacey 

junior Saint Edwards 
''I'll be shredding up the slopes of Crystal Mountain." 
IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame Student Film Festival will take place today and Saturday at 6:30 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m at Browning Cinema in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The festival will show 20 student films. Tickets can be purchased at performingarts.nd.edu. 
John Smart, president of the Acceleration Studies Foundation will give his lec­ture entitled "Foresight Development in a World of Accelerationg Change: Thoughts from an Evo Devo Futurist" in the Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business as part of the Ten Years Hence Lecture Series. This event will be held on Friday at from 10:40 a.m. to 12:10 
p.m. and is free and open to the public. 
Auto manufacturer Saturn will give a special discount to college students and recent college graduates in order to help stu.dents pur­chase a Saturn vehicle. All college students enrolled in a 2-year or 4-year degree pro­gram, a restistered nursing degree program or graduate degree progrm are eligable. For further information, call Saturn of Michiana at 574­258-6333. 
Tim Robbins' The Actor's Gang will present "1984" Saturday at 2 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play is an adap­tation of George Orwell's classic novel. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

. 

~if:~} . 'WE 


Atlanta 63 I 46 Boston 37 I 31 Chicago 31 I 29 Denver 42 I 31 Houston 68 I 45 Los Angeles 65 I 50 Minneapolis 16 I 10 New York 26 I 18 Philadelphia 26 I 20 Phoenix 71 I 54 Seattle 45 I 34 St. Louis 43 I 27 Tampa 70 I 45 Washington 49 I 33 
Friday, January 23, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Thornton, former law prof, dies at 90 
Special to The Observer 

Peter W. Thornton, professor emeritus of law in the University of Notre Dame Law. School, died Jan. 19 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 90 years old. 
Thornton taught law at Notre Dame from 1968 to 1993, inter­rupting his tenure from 1973 to 1976 to serve as founding dean of the Nova Southeastern University Law Center in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He served as director of Notre Dame's London Law Programme from 1976 to 1978 and also was an associate dean of the Notre Dame Law School. 
"I was fortunate to be Pete's student in civil procedure in the early 1970s, as well as his col­league on the faculty in the '80s and '90s," said Patricia O'Hara, Joseph A. Matson Dean of the Notre Dame Law School. "I know many alumni who would drop by Pete's office on visits back to campus to ask him to reprise his theatrical delivery of the holding on personal juris­diction in the famous 1945 Supreme Court case of International Sho·e Co. v. Washington. He and his beloved wife, Kit, were warm hosts on behalf of the Law School on many occasions over the years." 

A New York City native, Thornton was a 1939 graduate of Brooklyn College and served in the U.S. Navy during World War II. He earned law degrees from Brooklyn Law School and taught there for 21 years before joining the Notre Dame faculty. Along with his long career as a teacher of law, Thornton was a member of the New York State Bar from 1941 to 2006. 
Thornton is survived by four sons, Peter, Thomas, James, and John, all of them attorneys and law teachers. 
A funeral Mass will be cele­brated today at St. Joseph's Catholic Church in Carpinteria, Calif. 

ND celebrates Moreau feast day 
Profs Cavadini, O'Connell discuss Christian views ofsuffering 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 

The month of January contains a very special day for the Notre Dame community, as Blessed Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of the I loly Cross, celebrated his feast day on the 20th of January. 
Last year, Pope Benedict XVI beatified Moreau, bringing him one step closer to being canonized as a saint in the Catholic Church. 
In honor of his feast day, the inaugural Blessed Basil Moreau 
. Lecture took place in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza School of Business Thursday. The lecture, titled "The Cross, Our Only Hope: Two Christian Views of Suffering" was given by John Cavadini, chair of the Notre Dame Theology Department, and the response was given by Professor Mary Ellen O'Connell of the Notre Dame Law School. 
The views expressed by both profess9rs focused on the views of suffering in the Christian tradition and then made connections between these views and the motto of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, "Crux Spes Unica" or "The· Cross is Our Only Hope." The fundamental question the lecture tried to answer was that given the suffering of Jesus, is suf­fering in any way good'? 
Cavadini opened the lecture by outlining two traditional views of suffering within the Christian belief system, the Iranaeus theod­icy and the Augustine theodicy. 

IrenaeUs believed that God cre­ated humans as imperfect, Cavadini said, so that as they grow into the moral image of God, they would grow to love God as well. Iraneous believed that the best way to become more moral was to undergo suffering. 
In this belief system, God allows us to define ourselves by our own choices, Cavadini said. 
God punishes only to purifY and to bring repentance. 
In a Sflnse, God is acting as a good parent by issuing punish­ments that educate the wrong­doer, he said. 
Cavadini explained that Augustine believed that God could not or would not abolish evil. That suffering was common for both the good and the wicked human being. 
&dfering and struggle bring us into contact with our status as being created , Cavadini said. In this view, suffering of the body is meaningless. 
But Cavadini stated that both systems believe that faith in Christ is the means of salvation. 
Perfect joy is found in Christ, which allows us to take our suf­fering and turn it into something good, he said. Faith is the only saving power in the world that is ofGod s love. 
This leads us back to the motto of the Congregation of the Holy Cross; in this sense, the cross really is our only hope. 
Overall, Cavadini said that one good can always be taken from sUffering. 
The experience of suffering brings about signs of God s love which creates hope, he said. 
Humans build not on suffering, but on hope. Hope is what allows us to put our suffering to good use. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 

. 
The Observer is now accepting applications for the position of 



EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Position is for the 200_9-2010 term.. 
Applicants for Editor-in-Chief should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills. Also, experience ~th aspects ofnewspaper production is essential, including skills in r.Aicrosoft Wurd, Quark X.Press and Photoshop. 
Applications should include a 15-page paper detailing the applicant's qualifications and goals and should be submitted to Chris Hine before the end of next week in The Observer offices in the basement of South Dining Hall. Please direct questions about the applications to Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 23, 2009 


Porn 
continued from page 1 
stitutionally protected," Garnett said. 
Since adults are allowed to view or use erotic material in their own home, any law that might be passed might tread on those rights. Another problem arises in the area of moral value, because the Supreme Court could be accused of imposing its beliefs on others. This makes regulation of sexually explicit material very diffi­cult. 
Father Nate Wills, an asso­ciate pastor at St. Joseph Parish in South Bend, dis­cussed the intertwining of religion and pornography. 
"The people I see are nor-

Career 
continued from page 1 
utes, Monahan said. 

When it comes to advice for graduating seniors, Monahan has one definite rule. 
"Start now. Don't wait," he said. 
One senior entering the job market soon is Katie O'Connell. 
"The Career Center has been really helpful with netw()rk­ing," O'Connell said. "They have provided me with contact mally good Catholics, who are struggling to love Christ more deeply in their lives, but they come across this thing that is so powerful that it takes away from the things they love," Wills said. 
The reasons for the Catholic Church's opposition to pornography are varied. Pornography distorts a per­son's worldview, hijacks relationships and causes a cycle of addiction and isola­tion, Wills said People think the images will bring fulfill­ment into their lives, but the opposite happens and the human is reduced to an "object of flesh," as Wills called it. · 
Brian Vassel, a third-year Master of Divinity Student at Notre Dame, has facilitated the group Men of Faith, a group for men who are try-
information of Notre Dame graduates in the field that I would like to work in." 
Sometimes the search can be frustrating, especially in this market, O'Connell said. 
"The hardest part, for me, is staying positive when a com­pany doesn't have anything open or you don't get the job." 
But she does try to keep looking. 
"It's difficult to stay up, but keep e-mailing and speaking to people in the field you want to work in," O'Connell said. 
Monahan said the current economy has noticeably affect­
ing to integrate their faith and sexuality through sup­port and prayer. 
He cited two reasons why people should not view pornography: because it exploits those who take part in its production, and it changes and affects the peo­ple who watch it in profound ways. 
Christina Traina, an asso­ciate professor of religion at Northwestern University, dis­cussed some of the more unpleasant aspects of repeated exposure to pornography. 
"Objectification, the mak­ing of a person into a thing, is the prerequisite for all kinds of violent acts," Traina said. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
ed the job search. 
"Instead of firms having, say, 
10 jobs available, now they 
might only have four," he said. 
"I want to encourage seniors 
to 'hit the pavement.' 
Networking is paramount, and 
the key to networking is build­
ing relationships and trust." 
When it comes to job inter­views, Monahan urges stu­. dents to "do your homework." 
"Know the company. Know 
your achievements. Also, 
review practice questions." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


March 
continued from page 1 
"Seeing that, I consider myself a huge Notre Dame fan," he said. 
The march began with a rally on tire National Mall. A series of pro­life politicians and religious lead­ers, including rabbis, Byzantine Orthodox priests and Protestant pastors each spoke briefly to the audience of more than 200,000. 
The controversial Freedom of Choice Act, commonly known as FOCA, was brought up repeatedly. FOCA is a bill before Congress that states every woman in the United States has the right to terminate a pregnancy due to health reasons or be tore the fetus is viable. 
Following the series of speakers, several members of the United States Council of Catholic Bishops introduced themselves to the crowd by name and diocese. Marchers from the bishops' home­towns greeted their bishops with resounding cheers. 
The rally concluded with the Archbishop of Washington, D.C., Donald W. Wuerl, leading the marchers in prayer. 
"We come before you as men and women as many faiths," he said, drawing attention to the many faiths represented at the march. 
The marchers then walked to the Supreme Court building. Notre Dame students made their pres­ence known with cheers adapted from football games, like "Go Irish! Save Babies!" and frequent renditions of the Fight Song and Alma Mater. 
Daley said one big change to the march is that faculty came this year. The whole staff of the Center for Ethics and Culture joined in the march. 
"With the new pro-life fund through the Center for Ethics and Culture we were able to invite the entire University hierarchy. Even though Father Jenkins couldn't come, his senior advisor, Father Jim McDonald, was able to inake it," she said. 
Bill Dotterweich, a 1958 Notre Dame alum, is a big supporter of the pro-life movement and Notre Dame Right to Life, Daley said. He contributed to the fund to send members of the Notre Dame administration to Washington for the march, as well as to support Right to Life efforts on campus. 
Sophomore Karlo Leonor went on the march and returned on the bus later the night following. 
"I thought it was really encour­aging to see the professors there, especially those who brought their families," Leonor said. 
Le.onor said there was a sense of camaraderie among the marchers. 
"You could feel the common appreciation for Notre Dame as America's Catholic institution," Leonor said 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

Sonday January 25, 2009 • 7:30 pm Tht Statt Theatre Kalamazoo, Michigan 

Tlcktrts on soltr NOW at thtr Stattr Theotrcr Box Offtctr. all ncktrtmasttrr tocotlons, chargtr by phontr 169/373*7000 or onlintr www.tid<trtmasttrr.com. 
NQMAis atruly unique dining and drinking experience featuring acreative blend of culinary delights with adelicate touch of Asian flavors in an exciting yet intimate setting. Also come and enjoy our stylish and contemporary fusion martini 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 23, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Press restrictions lifted in Gaza 
JERUSALEM -Israel said Thursday it is lifting restrictions on foreign journalists entering the Gaza Strip, a ban that had drawn strong criticism from news media. 
The government said journalists would be free to enter and leave the war-ravaged ter­ritory starting Friday -two days before the Israeli Supreme Court was scheduled to rule 
. on a request by the Foreign Press Association to declare the restrictions illegal. The court hearing will probably not take plaee if the government lifts the ban. 
Israel imposed restrictions on entry to Gaza in early November as a cease-fire wi(h Gaza's llamas rulPrs began to fray. It tight­ened the rules after launching a military offensive Dec. 27 and ignored a Suprnme Court order six days latPr to allow limited ae1~nss to international reporters. Only wlum a eease-lire was declan-.cl Sunday did Israel begin ,opr-.ning the border to a trickln of jour­nalists. 

Hamas calls for reconciliation 
DAMASCUS, Syria -Barnas called Thursday for reconciliation with supporters of rival Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas but insistr-.d on pursuing "resistance" against Israel. 
The condition appeared to preelude any agreement with Abbas, who seeks a peace deal with Israel and whose moderate Fatah faction was not among the groups that backed the statement by llamas and seven other Damascus-based radical Palestinian factions. 
The call came clays after Israel ended a dev­astating 23-day war with the Islamic militant rulers of Gaza that Palestinian officials say killed about 1,300 people in the territory. . 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Two children die, a third injured 
NEW YOHK-An unoccupied delivery van mistakenly left in reverse jumped a curb and barreled into a group of children returning to their day care center after a trip to the library Thursday, killing two of them and seriously injuring a third, police said. 
Fourteen other children were hospitalized for treatment of minor injuries. 
The incident, which occurred in Manhattan's Chinatown commercial district around 11:30 a.m. as the children walked less than two blocks through the busy area with their teachers, was ruled an accident, and the driver wasn't charged, police said. 
An investigation found that the driver had double-parked and jumped out of the van to make a delivery, thinking he had left it run­ning in park, police said. Instead, the van traveled backward and hopped a curb on the opposite side of the street. 
Escaped killer captured in MD 
BALTIMORE -Maryland authorities have recaptured a convicted killer who escaped five days ago from a state prison. 
Kandelario Gareia-Ramos escaped Saturday from the Maryland Correctional Institution in Hagerstown, scaling two fences topped with razor wim. 
State police say ari FBI fingerprint comparison has confirmed that the man captured Thursday after a foot chase just six miles from the prison is Garda-Ramos. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Six charged in South Bend shootings 
SOUTH BEND. Ind. -Six people have been charged in a string of shootings in South Bend last fall. 
Twenty-one-year-old Bradley Walls of South Bend died at a hospital after being shot in his car on Oct. 26. Four others were wounded in two separate incidents the same day. 
At a news conference Thursday, prosecu­tors said Mark Murphy, Anthony Brown and Andre Payne have been charged with murder and attempted murder; and Victorio Belcher and Quintin Ferguson with battery and attempted murder. 



Pay freeze enforced in White House 
Employees earning over $100,000 a year suffer consequences of freeze 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -What do Tropicana Casino and Resort, Avis, Yahoo and the White House now have in common? 
They're all freezing the pay of some of their workers. It's part of a grmving trend by employers facing the fall­out -economic and political -from a brutal recession. 
For companies: pay freez~-.s are a kPy cost-cutting tool for surviving hard times. 
For President Barack Obama, who ordered a pay freeze for White llouse· employees earning over $100,000 a year. the move on his first full day in office sent a message to a nervous country: We're in this togeth­er. 
"During this period of eco­nomic emergency," Obama said Wednesday, "families are tightening their belts, and so should Washington." 
The unemployment rate last month bolted to a 16­year high of 7.2 percent. Last year, 2.6 million jobs vanished, the most since World War II. The jobless rate is expected to march upward and layoffs to pile up even with a multibillion-dol­lar stimulus package being crafted ·by Obama and Congress. 
More squeezed employers, though, are seeking an alter­native to layoffs. They're turning to pay freezes, pay A wide range of employers point where they are not raises this year as the reductions and other cost­have followed suit. In some only willing to take a pay cut slumping Internet company cutting options, such as end­cases, they're imposing pay to save their own job but struggles amid the recession. ing their contributions to freezes or cuts to avoid also take a freeze to save Sunnyvale, Calif.-based 401(k) accounts. immediate layoffs, though their co-worker's," Connelly Yahoo laid off 1,500 workers 
"All of that hurts, but noth­economists say such steps said. last month. A company ing hurts more than losing a tend to lead to layoffs any­Fresh unemployment data spokesman said no other job job," said Allen Sinai, chief way. In other cases, employ­out Thursday underscored cuts are planned, though global economist at Decision ers are cutting or freezing the grim reality facing work­management previously Economics Inc. "It is a grow­pay and laying off workers. ers. The number of newly warned another purge could ing trend as companies try to "It's a real tectonic spift," laid off Americans signing come, depending on how cut costs. Going forward, we Terry Connelly, dean of for unemployment benefits much longer the 13-month­will see more of this, Golden Gate University's last week jumped"by 62,000 old recession lasts. absolutely." Ageno School of Business, to 589,000, the Labor Tropicana Casino and 
The Federal Reserve has said of pay freezes and cuts. Department reported. The Hesort of Atlantic City, N.J., taken notice. In a recent sur­Such steps, which once number of people continuing said Wednesday it's freezing vey of economic conditions, affected mainly union work­to draw benefits climbed to pay for those making it observed that in some ers, are spreading to white­4.6 million, and both figures $50,000 and up and capping parts of the country, compa­collar industries, he said. were worse than economists raises for lower-paid work­nies were resorting to "pay "The extraordinary pace of expected. ers. But the company said freezes or reductions in com­layoffs has shifted people's Yahoo said Thursday that more than 100 employees pensation." internal calculations to the employees will forgo pay could still lose their jobs. 
IRAQ 


Gov't budget plunges as oil prices rise 
security since the U.S. troop surge of  rebuild.  
Associated Press  2007 could be at risk in  a country  Iraq is almost entirely dependent  
where about 38> percent of the work  on oil money. More than 90 percent  
BAGHDAD  -Iraq's government  force is estimated to have no job or  of the government's revenues come  
will have dramatically less money to  just part-time employment.  from oil sales. The government says  
spend  this  year  than  expected  But rebuilding requires .money.  it earned about $60 billion from oil  
because of plunging oil prices - a  And with oil prices plummetJng, the  sales in 2008 but hasn't said pub­ 
dire  economic  situation  that's  government has been forced to cut  licly how much it expects to take in  
already forced the country to slash  planned spending -by one-third  this year.  
rebuilding plans by 40 percent, The  over:all and 40 percent for rebuild­ Iraq's government has in the past  
Associated Press has learned. As the  ing, Iraqi officials told the AP -and  often used money to create jobs and  
U.S. seeks a timetable for withdraw­ to consider even deeper reductions.  projects as a way to keep different  
al, cutbacks on spending and jobs  It's an ironic turnaround from just  political groups happy, such  as  the  
could trigger heightened violence.  months ago when U.S. lawmakers  money it threw into Baghdad's Sadr  
U.S. commanders have repeatedly  complained that Iraq was swimming  City district last summer to  ease  
warned that without speedy eco­ · in cash from high oil revenues and  Shiite tensions there. That will  
nomic development and reconstruc­ should do more to help itself, rather  become harder now that  revenue  
tion, the sharp improvements in  than spend U.S. taxpayer money to  expectations have fallen sharply.  

page 6 The Observer u CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 23, 2009 
begin, concluding at 12 p.m. The arena will be cleared and
ESPN 
continued from page 1 
On Saturday, Notre Dame will be putting its nation-best 45-game home winning streak on the line. Saturday will also mark the first time Gameday will come to Notre Dame for a basketball game. To mark the occasion, the University, in coope-ration with the Leprechaun Legion has planned a camp out and other events beginning tonight. 
At 9 p.m. tonight, Gate 3 of the Joyce Center will be open for students who wish to camp out for the night inside the Joyce Center. Lines can form at 8:45. Wristbands will be handed out at 9 p.m. for line placement for seats at Saturday's game. 
Senior Tony Ceravolo, the president of the Leprechaun Legion, encouraged students to bring pillows, blankets and extra homework they might have. The Legion will also provide poster boards and Sharpies to make signs for Gameday. 
students can return to Gate 11 at 2 p.m. for line placement according to their wristbands. At 5 p.m. the students will enter the arena for the game. 
"It's huge for students to show up to the gameday events this weekend," Ceravolo said. "This is the first time ESPN Gameday has to come to Notre Dame for a basketball event and we want to show the nation how sup­portive we are and that we aren't just a football school," Ceravolo said. 
Phelps said he wants the crowd to resemble the crowd that came to see Notre Dame's 1977 win over a then-unde­feated San Francisco team. The crowd was so loud and affected so much that NBC, who was broadcasting the game, named the crowd the most valuable player. 
''I've seen Gamedays all over for five years and this team has earned the right to have Gameday here and I just want to show the nation that this is Notre Dame," Phelps said. 
seat classrooms, 270 seat the Institute for Church Life 
classrooms, five seminar and Center for Social

Law 
rooms and a whole host of Concerns. continued from page 1 teaching spaces," Tiller said. Jim Lyphout, vice president Part of the reason the con­for Business Operations, said 
ing, which includes an addi­struction is being done is there is still interior construc­tion plus renovation to the old because the ·old Law School tion to be done on all of these building, will be 192,500 building was very "maze-like projects, "while Ryan, Stinson­square feet, Tiller said. The and had a lot of level Remick and Geddes Hall still addition is complete, and changes." have remaining exterior work everyone has been moved into "[There were] 17 different to complete." that part of the building so entrances into the library. You Lyphout expects Ryan Hall renovation work can be done can imagine it was very prob­and Geddes Hall will be com­on the old lematic," he said. pleted by Aug. 1 while part of the "Part of the reno­Stinson-Remick will be com­building, he vation is to take pleted in December of this
"The new building

said. out that confu­year.
has 205 seat

The gates sion." Construction also started on around the classrooms, 2 70 seat The nearly $58 the Joyce Center in archway classrooms, jive million project September, with the founda­through the was made possi­tions of the Purcell Pavilion,
seminar rooms and a

Law School ble solely through Lyphout said. building whole host of donations, and the The Purcell Pavilion will be have been teaching spaces." new building, a "47,000 gross square foot removed, so named Biochini addition to the south dome of students can Hall, is expected the JACC," according to the
Craig Tiller 

pass from to be finished in University Architect Web site. Main Circle Senior Project Manager June of 2010, The Web site also says that to DeBartolo Tiller said. the project will include a new Quad. Additional con­major entry for the arena, a 
Once all work is complete, struction projects are taking new varsity shop, new ticket­the classrooms will be in the place across campus, includ­ing operations, new conces­new part of the building, while ing a new engineering build­sions and a new third floor the library, career services ing, named Stinson-Remick club for hospitality. and admissions will reside in Hall, a new women's resi­the renovated part, he said. dence hall, Ryan Hall, and Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
"The new building has 205 Geddes Hall, which will house smervosh@nd.edu 

"Anti-UConn sentiment is-Contact Chris Hine at also encouraged," Ceravolo chine@nd.edu said. 
Doors will close at midnight and inside there will be bas­ketball games, showing of movies, such as "Hoosiers," and sign creation for Gameday. Drinks will be pro­vided by head coach Mike Brey. 

On Saturday, the doors to Gate 3 will re-open at 6 a.m., and wristbands will again be handed out. At 7 a.m. break­fast will be served compli­ments of Brey. 
At 9:15, students will be admitted into the Joyce Center Arena for the airing of Gameday. At that time Phelps will run contests where stu­dents can win prizes such as round-trip airline tickets, $50 gift certificate to Legends, Bookstore gift cards, free books for a semester and autographed memorabilia from Phelps, former Indiana coach Bob Knight and the rest of ESPN's Gameday crew. 
At 10 a.m. ESPN will film a live show from the· Joyce Center to air on SportsCenter and at 11 a.m., Gameday will 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large_ and small 


OPEN noon to six 
1The Art of the Disegno:!Italian PFints and Drawings from ' the Georgia Museum ofArt 
O'Shaughnessy Galleries Jan II -Mar I 
Nicolo Boldrini. Venus and Cupid, 1566 
Woodcut on oatmeal paper 
12 7/1 6 x 9 118 in; 31.6 x 23.2 em Georgia Museum of Art, University of Georgia; extended loan from the collection ofGuiliano Ceseri GMOA 1995.773E 
Lola Alvarez Bravo 

O'Shaughnessy Galleries jan 25 -Mar I 5 
Lola Alvarez Bravo, Sumo, Resta, y Multiplica (Add, 
Subtract, and Mulnply). ca 1940s Gelatin silver print

Tuesday through Sunday 
8.75 x 7.25 in Gift of Mr. Jam~e N1ven 
1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 
-2008.005 
232-8444 
The Graphic Imperative: International Posters for Peace, Social Justice and



MAKE TEA 
the Environment I965 -2005 
Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery

NOT WAR 
Jan 25-Mar I 
Karmarama, Make Tea Not War, 2003, United Kingdom, I 3 x I 0 in 
Free and open to the public I$1UNIVBRSITYOF • (574) 63 i-5466 
WNOTREDAME 
www.nd.edu/-sniteart 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, January 23, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,122.80 -105.30 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 930 101 2,835 2,598,714;448 

A~EX 
NASDAQ 
NYSE fjH#Hb@/ Aifi>,dJM!l!!!i! 
S&P 500 827.50 -12.74 
NIKKEI (TOkyo} 


FTSE 100 (London) 4,052.23 -7.65 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -1.55 -1.30 82.75 BANK OF AMERICA (BAC) -14.52 -0.97 5.71 CITIGROUPINC(C)" -15.26 -0.56 3.11 ULTRA FIN PRO (UYG) -10.39 -0.35 3.02 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.69 +0.068 2.594 13-WEEK BILL -9.09 -0.010 0.100 30-YEAR BOND +3.57 +0.112 3.250 5-YEAR NOTE +1.06 +0.017 1.616 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.12 43.67 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +8.70 858.80 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) 0.00 82.00 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 88.9800 EURO 1.2987 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2546 BRITISH POUND 1.3831 
IN BRIEF 
Bank of America president resigns 
NEW YORK -John Thain resigned under pressure from Bank of America on Thursday after reports he rushed out billions of dollars in bonuses to Merrill Lynch employees in his final days as CEO there, while the brokerage was suffering huge losses and just before Bank of America took it over. 
The bonuses were paid before Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill became final on Jan. 1, and while Bank of America was pri­vately telling the government that Merrill was losing so much money that the deal might fall through unless it could get more federal bailout money. 
Bank of America later received an additional $20 billion from the government, in part to offset the unexpected Merrill losses. The bro­kerage lost $15 billion in the fourth quarter and more than $27 billion for the year. 
Wage discrimination bill clears Senate 
WASHINGTON -A wage discrimination bill that heralds the pro-labor policies of the Democratic-controlled Congress and White House cleared the Senate Thursday and could be on President Barack Obama's desk within days. 
The legislation reverses a 2007 Supreme Court ruling that narrowly defines the time period dur­ing which a worker can file a claim of wage dis­crimination, even if the worker is unaware for months or years that he or she is getting less than colleagues doing the same job. It has been a priority for women's groups seeking to narrow the wage gap between men and women. 
The House is expected to act quickly to again approve the measure, sending it to Obama for his signature. The House passed a nearly identi­cal version two weeks ago but then combined it with another bill that the Senate didn't consider. 
Senate Majority Leader I larry Reid predicted that "the first bill that President Obama will sign will be this piece of legislation." He said the bill would send an important message because "this administration stands for equality and fairness. 
Obama strongly backs the measure and invit­ed Lilly Ledbetter, the retired Alabama tire com­pany worker whose lawsuit inspired the legisla­tion, to aeeompany him on the train trip bring­ing him to Washington for the inauguration. 
Microsoft feels the burn of recession 
5,000 lose their jobs as the company makes the first mass layoff in its history 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp. will make the first mass layoffs in its 34-year history, cutting 5,000 jobs as demand for personal com­puters falls and even one of the world's richest compa­nies gets burned by the recession.. 
The company announced the cuts Thursday as it reported an 11 percent drop in second-quarter profit, which fell short of Wall Street's expectations. Microsoft shares plunged more than 11 percent. 
"We're certainly in the midst of a once-in-a-lifetime set of economic conditions," Chief Executive Steve Ballmer said during a con­ference call. With less access to credit, businesses and consumers are spending less and stretching the life span of their existing computers. 
The biggest names in the technology sector have been no stranger to layoffs lately. Giants such as chip· maker Intel Corp. and even Google Inc. are among the compa­nies that hav.e pulled back on jobs to hunker down in the recession. 
Google also reported earn­ings Thursday and said its quarterly net profit fell 68 percent, its first such drop ever. The results were better than analysts had expected, however. 
At Microsoft, the cuts appeared to reflect uncer­ware earnings, Microsoft's cut further into Microsoft's cations. tainty about when tinies will problems seem even harder earnings. The tiny portable Employees reached by The get better. The company said to fix. computers run on Windows Associated Press declined to it could not issue a forecast Microsoft, which has $20.7 XP, which is older and less comment on the news, say­for earnings and profits for billion in cash on hand, said profitable for Microsoft than ing it was against company the rest of the year. its business prospects were Windows Vista. policy to speak to reporters. 
The software maker was hurt by the deteriorating The layoffs, starting with Microsoft had never done already facing tough prob­global economy and lower 1,400 on Thursday, will layoffs on this scale before ­lems, among them its inabili­revenue from software for affect workers in research it had only made relatively ty to snag a significant share PCs. The holiday quarter of and development, market­limited staff cuts after of the lucrative Web search 2008 was the worst for the ing, sales, fmance, legal and acquiring companies or reor­advertising market from PC market since 2002, with corporate affairs, human ganizing product groups. leader Google Inc. It tried to computer shipments declin­resources and information The software maker won't fix this by buying Yahoo Inc. ing about a half of 1 percent, technology, and mostly in stop hiring entirely. During and pouring money into its according to IDC, a technolo­Redmond, Wash., where the the conference call, Ballmer own technology, all the while gy research group. company is based. The cuts· said the company will add relying on Office programs Making matters worse, the are expected to touch virtu­new jobs in the next 18 such as Word and Excel, and one type of PC consumers ally every division and months to support key areas, on Windows to keep bringing have warmed to in tight include the computer pro­including Web search, so the home huge profits. Now, with times -the low-cost, low­grammers who write code total number of employees the recession pinching soft-power "netbook" -actually for existing and future appli-will drop by 2,000 to 3,000. 



Recovery plan advanced in Congress 
Associated Press But Republicans said there was no unemployment benefits for two 
reliable estimate of the bill's impact years. 

WASHINGTON -Amid grim new on employment. They argued that the GOP propos­evidence of economic weakness, leg­"The American people deserve to als would favor upper-income indi­islation at the heart of President know what they are getting for their viduals and couples who, they said, Barack Obama's recovery plan nearly $1 trillion," said Rep. Dave benefited disproportionately from advanced in Congress Thursday Camp of Michigan, the top tax cuts passed .during the adminis­over the persistent opposition of Republican on the tax-writing com­tration of former President George 
Republicans seeking deeper tax mittee. W. Bush. cuts. On the key vote of the day, "We need to be dealing with peo­"We are very pleased with the Democrats closed ranks to preserve ple at the bottom of the income 
progress," said Speaker Nancy a tax break for this year and 2010 scale," said Rep. Jim McDermott, D­Pelosi, 0-Calif., after $275 billion in that would mean $500 for many Wash. He also noted that the legisla­tax cuts cleared the House Ways and workers and $1,000 for millions of tion would provide a $25-per-week Means Committee on a party-line couples, including those whose increase in unemployment benefits. vote of 24-13. Democratic leaders earnings are so low that they pay no But Camp cited a report by the have promised the measure will be federal income tax. nonpartisan Congressional Research ready for Oba~a·s signature by mid-Democrats also turned back a Service that he said showed lower February. -Republican attempt to jettison a new and middle-income workers already 
"It will create jobs immediately, fed.eral subsidy to help laid-off would have received most of the and it will also lay the foundation workers pay for health insurance benefits from the proposal to elimi­for economic stability as we go for­after they lose employer-paid cover­nate the tax on unemployment bene­
ward,"Pelosi added. age, and to waive income taxes on fits. 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
·page 8 Friday, January 23,..2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan · 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Bill Brink Dan Murphy SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
. PHOTO EDITOR: Jessi~a Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: ,Maddie Boyer 

AD DESIGN MANA&ER: Mary Jesse CONTROllER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 


OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objeaively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questio1lJ regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1he 0~!"¥er (USPS 599 2-4000} it. publishell Monday rhrough. Friday except during exam :~nd vaa~inn period.~. A ~ubscriprirm to The Obsen-t:r i.s $100 fur ont-aca&mk yar, $"iS for one SC:IJleslcr. 
The Observer is publi5hcd at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrro:ions co: 
Norte Dame. IN 46556-0?79 Theab:rvtr Periodical postage paid at Norrt: DaJll(! P.O.Bor;779 and .additional mailing offias.. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre O;t.tnc, JN 46556-0779 

The Obserw:r is 01 mcmbtr ofrh~: A.'\liaciared Pre$$. All reproduction rights arc n=n-<d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Kaitlynn Riely Sam Werner· Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan Alicia Smith Eric Prister 
Viewpoint Scene Katrina Stephanie DePrez Schmerold Graphics Andrea Archer 

Missing history 

On Tuesday, Jan. 20, 2009. one of the biggest milestones in 
U.S. history was reached. For the first time ever, a black man will occupy the White House. Greeted with voluminous applause and worldwide vigor, Barack Il. Obama became the 44th presi­dent of the United States. More than one billion people around the world tuned in to hear his inaugural address. Olliees set up televisions and organized breaks to wateh. High school classes gathered around the TV screen. But at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, students should cancel classes for the day in honor of the memory and contribution of Dr. King. 
Four years ago, when Father John Jenkins was inaugurated as University President, Notre Dame was given the day ofT. Does Fr. Jenkins outrank the president of the United States? Martin Luther King Jr.? Obviously, the answer is no, however, Barack 
Obama -the president of the United States -was not oven given a few hours of attention by the University. 

were forced to skip classes to watch this historic oss[ERVER In antieipation of such a momentous week, ·the event. Or if they were lucky, their professors University should have prepared to usher in a new turned it on for them in class. era. The simple action of watching the Inaugural
Editorial 

Why should students have to take an unex­
cused absence from class. to experience the most 
celebrated event in recent history? 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were also in dasses Monday. Martin Luther King-Jr. Day -a national day of service. Other schools across the nation cancelled classes, leaving their studetns free to volunteer at grocery stores or soup kitchens, Meanwhile, Notm Dame and Saint Mary's students were in the classroom, unable to participate and give back to their commu­nity -which was an essential part of King's legacy. Notre 'Dame, like thousands of other schools across the country, 
address (which, mind you, was less than 15 minutes 
long) as a community in the Joyce Center or other 
venues on campus would have avoided the penalty of skipping elasses and would have allowed students and faeulty alike to witness history. 
Watching the first black president take the White House ought to trump the extra 15 minutes of class tim~ students would miss. As such, both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's need to put into perspective that forfeiting 15 minutes of dass is well worth the tradeoff of witnessing history as it happens, instead of watching it on YouTube a few hours later. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"You can observe a lot

"Action is eloquence. " 
just by watching. " 

William Shakespeare 
Yogi Berra

English playwright 
U.S. baseball player 

,-~----­
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Friday, January 23, 2009 page 9 
Obama turning excitement into reform 
President Barack Obama's inauguration was so momentous that it even excited Washington insiders with an uninterested "been there, done that" attitude. While many ethnic groups hailed the election as 
a triumph over their historical struggles for equality, federal employees hope for their freedom. Gov6fnment workers of all political affilia­tions have <:J,lready begun to blow the 


whistle on the Bush hir-Gary Caruso ing practices and sur­veillance procedures. CapitolMSNBC's "Countdown Comments with Keith Olbermann" featured an interview with a former National Security Administration employee who charged that his superiors illegally spied on ordi­nary Americans and explained how he avoided providing information to congress. 
As promised in his inaugural speech, Obama has quickly begun to question if government works in his effort to remake America. The president reversed Bush procedures affecting government person­nel and access to federal documents. However, it will be a daunting task to repair nearly a decade of ethically chal­lenged, if not outright illegal, Bush poli­cies. 
Last year, the struggle to expose illegal political tampering centered around the calculated firings of eight Republican, Bush appointed U.S. Attorneys who disap­pointed Republican Senators and Representatives when directly contacted about ongoing criminal cases. While presi­dential appointees serve at the pleasure of the president -and this writer was appointed by President Clinton-imped­ing criminal procedures is not reason to remove loyal competent Republican prose­cutors like one in Michigan who had stud­ied to be a nun for eight years before turn­ing to law. 
While those outside the beltway may think that every administration acts simi­larly, they do not. In recent history -not the Kennedy or Johnson liberals nor the Reagan conservatives -has such an ideo­logically charged partisan group been appointed as those of George W Bush. Not only did these appointees march lockstep to a rigid ideology, they broke laws to suit their political agendas. 
Forewarnings existed to alerted us. They included issuing unauthorized wire taps, eliminating habeas corpus for "foreign combatants" and removing Senate con­firmed replacement U.S. Attorneys through the Patriot Act. Bush's signing statements pronounced that he could ignore the law he was signing. When con­gress changed to Democratic control, Bush issued an order mandating that all federal regulations be approved by his political appointees before they were published. Obama's first presidential act was to tem­porarily suspend pending regulations. 
It is no wonder that early in the Bush term, EPA appointees edited scientific global warming data and career civil rights lawyers at the Justice Department resigned when political appointees ignored their unbiased legal findings. This writer has firsthand knowledge of career civil servants, with whom I have spoken, who were illegally forced to proceed with proj­ects or hiring matters based purely on political motives. 
For example, government experts who submitted nonpartisan facts, economic indicators and statistical data watched their numbers changed by political appointees at the Social Security Administration, Commerce Department, FEMA and Justice Department. Also, Bush political appointees overseeing the Bureau of Economic Analysis routinely and bla­tantly changed monthly statistics before releasing them to the public whenever those economic growth rates contradicted Bush political talking points. 
Early in the Bush term, when a rubber­stamp Republican congress ignored over­sight of agencies, a senior Social Security Administration political appointee lied during a Government Accountability Office investigation. GAO caught this appointee -subsequently fired and immediately escorted from his office -ordering career employees to remove information from the SSA web site. Even after initially confront­ed, the appointee continued to instruct subordinates to remove additional infor­mation while pursuing a project that he knew was contrary to existing law. 
While personally interviewing for career civil service positions, political appointees routinely administered an illegal political litmus test to me. At the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation in 2006 when asked my home state, a political appointee told me that he too was from Pennsylvania. His next statement, "I can't stand Rick Santorum." 
When I replied that Santorum was an incumbent with good constituent services and should get reelected, the appointee did not ask about my qualifications, but continued with politics. He noted that since the PBGC was not a "policy shop," itwas okay to hire Democrats. The appointee said, "In fact, most of our employees here are Democrats." 
Obama's administration and congress should invite career employees throughout the government to testify about past known illegalities. Such an open invitation with an e-mail trail of evidence will prove without doubt the pervading "don't give a damn" mentality of the Bush political appointees. It is a sad day, even in light of the promise of this week's inauguration, when just obeying the rule of law is a remake of America. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Leprechaun Legion 
Coach Digger Phelps here, trying to give you all a little perspective on the upcoming game this weekend between your Fighting Irish men's basketball team and the third ranked Connecticut Huskies. ESPN College Basketball GameDay has been around for five years and this is the first visit to Notre Dame. 
The nation has not y_et seen what Notre Dame students are capable of. I know you are the best students in the nation and this Saturday is time to prove it. We are rid­ing a nation's best 45-game home win streak and it is time to show America why we are so tough to play at the Joyce Center. I talked to the University and with the help of some students and Coach Brey, we are going to open up the fleld house on Friday night at 9 pm: I want as many students as possible there ready to cheer on the Irish. 
If you cannot camp out Friday night, be in the building Saturday morning so we can start the madness at the Joyce Center. Students who arrive early will book their priority seats for the game. Don't let me down. It's time to show the nation what every ND fan already knows. Go Irish! 
Digger Phelps former Notre Dame basketball coach Jan. 21 
Objectivity, please 
I was extremely disappointed yesterday, upon reading Emma Driscoll's article concerning President Obama's shut down of the Guantanamo Bay detention facility. 
The opinions of Professor O'Connell and Catherine McKinney were extremely biased in favor of the President and Ms. Driscoll's inability to present the opposing view of this controversial issue is quite dis­heartening. 
While I am sure that many of my peers will express their own opinions about the dangers of providing unre­pentant terrorists with civilian trials, I would just like to remind Ms. Driscoll and other writers at the Observer that objectivity is a cornerstone of journalistic integrity, and that ideological banter should be reserved for the pages of the Viewpoint. 
Nathan S. Furtado 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Jan. 22 
Joe Biden: First Goofball 

After Joe and Jill Biden appeared on Oprah earlier this week, there was much talk about Mrs. Eiden's comment that our now vice president had been given his choice between being Obama's running mate or secretary of state. In the ensuing shhhhhshing of his 
wife, Biden started off the week with a bang and demonstrated why he was the perfect choice to be our nation's second-in­command. While the whole world has been transfixed on the opening days of Barack Obama's presidency, Joe Biden has been slightly left of center 


stage as he was sworn in as our Bob Kessler 
·47th vice president. By taking the 
oath of office, Biden follows such House ofStix 
esteemed men as Spiro Agnew, 
Walter Mondale, and Dick 
Cheney, but as history tells us the vice president is 
no more of a second-in-command than a First 
Goofball, a role for which Joe Eiden is incredibly 
well suited. 
As any student of history knows, the First Goofball 
role of the vice president goes all the way back to the 
early days of the republic and our third vice presi­
dent; Aaron Burr. Possibly the most insane man to 
even hold public office in the United States, Burr is· 
remembered today for such feats as killing 
Alexander Hamilton in a duel and attempting to 
form his own country in the (then) western United 
States. In fact, Burr's actions were so off the wall 
that in later life he was forced to use an alias just to 
reside in the States. 
While First Goofballs in modern times have not 
been as insane as Aaron Burr, they have still added a 
lot to the long history of this unwritten vice presiden­
tial responsibility. Spiro Agnew used alliterative 
phrases to attack his opponents. Walter Mondale 
pledged to raise taxes while running for president. 
Dan Quayle had about the intellectual capacity of 
Michael Scott from The Office. AI Gore claimed to 
have invented the Internet, and Dick Cheney actually 
shot a man in the face. 
Even those vice presidents who have actually suc­
ceeded to the presidency have not been our most 
conventional. Johnson spoke with staffers and gave 
interviews while utilizing the toilet. For:d ruined his 
future political career by pardoning Nixon. Bush 41 
has been spending his later years jumping out of air­
planes and broing out with the man who defeated 
him. These are not typical behaviors of our chief 
executives. 
Why, you might be asking yourself, have our vice 
presidents tended to be goofballs? One predominant theory is that this is the way that presidents take out an insurance policy on their life. The notion that Barack Obama is safer from assassination because nobody outside of Scranton wants Joe Biden to be our chief executive is a highly compelling one that stands up to incredible scrutiny. Why else would John McCain have picked Sarah Palin as his running mate? 
Another theory is that presidential candidates look for Goofballs to be their running mates so that they appear to be more serious. Is it a coincidence that Burr's actions have been juxtaposed in history with those of Thomas Jefferson? If the vice president is going around saying and doing stupid things, it takes some attention away from the smaller stupid things that the president might actually do. By the time Joe Eiden was finished taking the oath of office on Tuesday, I thought he was going to start laughing hysterically. This eased the way for Obama, and everybody pretty much brushed otT the fact that Obama messed up his first act as president (taking the oath of office). This is minor, however, and there are many examples that go against it. 
While this theory does not always stand up to the scrutiny of history, it does help to explain the predicament of the last eight years. Dick Cheney was not always allowed to assume his role as because W. was actually acting as First Goofball. When Bush choked on his pretzel while watching a football game less than a year into his presidency, he started to be seen as the jokester that he actually is. We were then met with an administration that has a vice president who takes himself too seriously and a president who does not take himself seriously enough. 
Therefore, because we have gone eight years with a president who was the First Goofball, Joe Biden has a large task ahead of him in reasserting the vice president as a Goofball. The American people are counting on Biden to be the man that we thought he was a year ago when he dropped out of the presi­dential race. He needs to say things like, "Stand up, Chuck" to a man in a wheelchair or "You cannot go into a 7-11 or Dunkin' Donuts unless you have a slight Indian accent." If Joe Biden can do these things, than he will be a great vice president, and an even better First Goofball, and Barack Obama will be remembered more fondly because of him. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 10 Friday, January 23, 2009 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
' 
because of 1t.
By STEPHANIE DEPREZ Yeah, I know. He's my muse. That
Asst. Scene Editor 
crazy old man, he'll never know.
This week Scene got a chance to sit down with Alex Lilly, the main brain The first thing I thought when I picked behind Obi Best. Between bad cell con­
up your album was, why Is she hugging
nections and last minute answer changes 
three people wrapped In sheets?
(what music would you want on a desert­I can explain that! When I fmished theed island?) Lilly revealed her complete record I decided to do a photo sessiondown-to-earth interest in sound effects where I dressed up as all my songs, soquirky lyrics, and the joys of being just one session I'm dressed up for "Origami"
plain silly. 
and I'm in a kimono, and in another one
What was It like working with The Bird 
I'm a "Swedish Boy." The cover repre­and the Bee? sents the song "Who Loves You Now" and I had been working on my thing before it's hugging all the boyfriend ghosts, all I came to LA, and the backing vocals the boys you've been with and all the 

ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
kind of came out of the blue. I'd never relationships you've had. They're stilland the lyric. Opening with, "Lovely

By MICHELLE FORDICE done backing vocals before for a band so kind of shaping you, and in your life, and
laughter sitting on a wall, its love ... you 
Asst. Scene Editor I was pretty excited when it happened. you embrace them anyway. I dressed up
can read between the lines, but its only Sort of' a lucky accident. people who were playing with me at theWhether or not you will appreciate notes and dots and lines/It's only music," I think that they did intluence me a lit­time.
"Capades," by Obi Best and featuring it has a strong build and manages to be tle bit. I was inspired by performing with 
singer Alex Lilly, depends on your toler­both unique and listenable. I hear you are holding a video contest 
both Inara and Greg. I actually wrote the

ance for synthesizers. "It's Because of 
for the song "Swedish Boy." Tell me
song "It's Because of People Like You"Lilly's spacey voice and People Like You," is a right after playing with them, so I'm sure about that.

whimsical lyrics and There is little instant humorous story of 
arrangement can be fun, dealing with the kind some of Greg's awesome contrapuntal We thought it would be fun to throw a 
access to this album; 
madness got into my writing a little bit. I contest for Swedish Boy. I think it will be 

but unless you've just of people that leave
Obi Best demand that was already writing stuff that felt sympa­cool if people want to submit a crazy
woken up from the 1980s nasty notes on your thetic to stun· they were doing. That was video of vegetables dressed up asit may take a bit of time to you listen a few times car about how you part of the reason I was so excited to Swedish people. It's supposed to be pret­adjust. parked. It has a fun
to get into their songs. 
play with them. ty low budget. A few people haveAlex Lilly began her beat that will get you

But it offers a unique entered. If there's any film students that
career as a backup singer moving as it declares, Your music Is very spacy and outside of for The Bird and the Bee, sound and quirky "Nothing in the way I want to do anything, they can come up
the box. How do you create a song? 
with something pretty silly and have aan indie-pop musical duo park could warrant

lyrics that make it 
whose songs you may have such a cold remark," What do you write ftrst, music or good chance of winning. Let them know! 
worth the investment. 
caught on the soundtracks and "Now really I'm lyrtcs? How do you decide where to What do you think Is the most unex­for "Grey's Anatomy," "Sex sure you hate people 
layer voice and lntruments? pected thing people will ftnd when lis­

and the City: The Movie," as much as I do/But The music comes first. Usually what
and "Forgetting Sarah Marshall." try to write things that are true." tening to "Capades?"
will happen is that I start writing a piece

"Capades" is Lilly's first solo effort and "Origami" is the only song on the Hopefully they'll be surprised with 
of music and then it reminds me of some­

she is now touring as the opening act for album that brings in voices distinct from each song. Each song is different. Sound 
thing that happened in my life or remind

The Bird and the Bee. Lilly's with a deep male chorus line effects. Cooking glasses during "Days of 
me of a concept, maybe something that

The sound of Obi Best is a pop layering throughout. It plays with fifth chords and Decadence." 
I've seen. The music does come first.

of piano, voice, synthesizer, and drum sings, "Can I love you this way? Can it be 
Why the name Obi Best?
Sometimes the melody line that I have machine which has been compared to true? Paper cranes and daisies say I love I wanted something that had ridiculousin mind directs me to a new key or tobands like Stereolab, Her Space Holiday, you." 

positive childlike sentiment. I thought itfind another chord, but usually I tinker Feist and Au Revoir Simone. "Swedish Boy" is fun in it oddity as it would be funny to take the word Obi,with something a lot until I find some­"Nothing Can Come Between Us," croons, "It seems to me you live in a which is a sash that goes on a kimono,thing that feels right, that is exciting tostarts of well with a catchy piano melody made up country... Its something you and just put it before the word best, some. Sometimes if I've been in' the sameline, but it never grows out of its initial would make up when you were high/It's its, "Oh be your best!" It's ani-punk, sokey for a while and I want to write abounce as Lilly sings, "You know what I something the Gods would make while 

instead of anti-establishment it's
bridge I'll think oh, it would be cool to gomean, but nothing can come between us they're dreamin'/lt's something you absolutely positive and kind of stupid.

to the parallel minor, so little music theo­now." would make. up when you were five." (If ry stuff will pop up just to kind of shake What would you say are your maJor"Who Loves You Now," steps back from you fmd you like the song, Social Science me up. Usually I just do it with my ear

the gratingly bright opening track and Studios has opened a competition to musical Influences?
and it will send me into other keys and

delves into more creative lyrics, opening design the music video for it.) I remember taking dance classes in
other territories. I experiment with dif­

with the ironic, "Every word I say is true, The lyric of "Within These Forrest fifth grade and this really cool modern
ferent sounds until I have an idea of a

I'll say anything to be close to you," and Walls" make it stand out, with, "In my dance instructor played Tom Tom Club's
mood that I want. I'll record a bunch of

continuing with the quirky and fun garden/Don't you worry/Can't you see "Genius of Love." I was obsessed with it. 
stuff and it becomes a process of elimina­

imagery, "I know there will be times to that I'm freer than you'll ever be/They At the same time my mom had put The
tion.

run around like a bird with its head cut say that I can leave to seek a life out Doors in my Christmas socking, so I was off ... to flop around like a fish whose air there but the world is not for me/It dan­What's It like to have that kind of con­pretty in to that. Grace Jones I love. Of we're drinkin' ... to dream of once again gles hidden keys/It's the biggest fantasy." course all the classics like Queen, Led
trol over your music?

breathing." "Days of Decadence," closes the album Zeppelin, the Talking Heads, Hpc, but not
I've never had it any other way. I've

"Green and White Stripes," stands out with a lighter, refreshing swing and, 'Til the drug! When I went to college I went
always had to take control. Music has 

on the album as a flowing ballad that just linger back instead/This is not my through the classical phase and I would 
always been my idea. My grandma plays

successfully combines the elements of time/1 see some greaser kids out looking listen to Messiaen, Prokofiev, and Ravel.
piano but I had to ask for piano lessons. I Lilly's voice, the band's different sound, for me/1 wish I could rewind and find asked for a guitar. I asked for Pro Tools. I It's very Intelligent music to listen to.


those dusty days waitin' there for 
felt like I always asked for what I wanted You know those Baby Genius CO's? It's

m~/Days of decadence are ringin' 
or saved up money to buy mic's. like that for a college kid. You get

Capades 

through me." 
smarter when you listen to it. 

Some of the songs on the album are "It's Because of People Uke You" Is 
If you were stranded on a desert
Obi Best 

less successful. "What It's Not" sounds a about an angry note someone left on 
island and could bring the complete

bit whiney at times and "Blooms Like
Released by: Social Science 
your car. Did someone really do that? works of one artist, who's would you

Flowers" lingers on for too long without 
They did indeed. It didn't say "It's bring?

· offering much internal change. 
Records 
because of people like you" but it had the I'd probably have to bring someoneThere is little instant access to this sentiment, "Learn to park and lock your eclectic so I don't go crazy. The Beatles?

Best Tracks :"Green and 
album; Obi Best demand that you listen a car." I had sort of a junky car, and it was No. Miles Davis? I have to go with Pinkfew times to get into their songs. But it 
White Stripes," "It's Because 
not parked improperly, as I mention in Floyd. Yes. Pink floyd. They do a lot ofoffers a unique sound and quirky lyrics the song, but he left a really belligerent, different stuff. 

that make it worth the investment.
of People Like You" 
pissed-off note with underlines and capi­

"Capades" will oe released in stores (Ave minutes later, the phone rings
tal letters, an incoherent mean note, andFebruary 24 but it is all ready available 

again.) Hello?
that inspired the song. 

digitally on stores like iTunes. 
I have my answer! David Bowie. 
Well, they picked the wrong car. They 

Contact Michelle Fordice at have become forever Immortalized Contact Stephanie DePrez at mfordice@nd.edu 
sdeprez@nd.edu 



7 
J 
~~~,.4-~~JI'//iMi~~~·~~ ···=··.·.··-···· .. · ·.... :. ·•-.-,~. ....... -. 
..---------------------------~-------­
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 23, 2009 
COMMENTARY 



Irish need boost from home fans 
Don't underestimate a crowd's ability to electrify. To embolden. To inspire. To take a group of athletes and help them reach a higher place. 
Digger Phelps doesn't. How could he? 
On January 19,1974, Phelps and his No.2 Irish stood ready when UClA strolled into South Bend with a Greg Arbogast videogame-
Sports Writer 

esque 88­game win streak. They had been ranked No. 1 since 1971. With 3:30 left in the game, it was business as usual for UClA who led 70-59, but then John Shumate scored four straight points. And then the noise turned up. And then came UCLA's next four possessions: 
This Saturday night, the Irish need that kind of boost from the crowd. 
What started as the most high­ly anticipated Irish season in decades is suddenly teetering dangerously close to spiraling out of control. Losses at Louisville and Syracuse have given the Irish their first back-to­back Big East losses since 2007. Now, No. 3 Connecticut comes to town followed by No. 11 Marquette and then a game at No. 4 Pittsburgh. Two losses could turn into three losses which become five defeats in a row, and Notre Dame's No. 9 preseason ranking is a distant memory. 
That can't happen. 
Rarely does a moment of need coincide so ideally with one of opportunity, but the Irish have been blessed by the scheduling gods in the form of a certain col­
lege basketball 
show led by our 
turnover, travel, own Phelps.
So come early. Be 

missed shot, and Digger knows 
creative. And when

an offensive foul. the effect The Bruins, the first Huskey sets Gameday has. renowned for their He described
foot on that court, 

flawless execution, the energy dur­
shake down the

were so rattled ing the morning that coach John thunder like your life broadcast as a Wooden had to force that car-
depends on it. 

break from his philosophy of never calling a timeout at the end of the game. It didn't matter. The Bruins missed their fmal shot, and the court was engulfed by delirious students. 
That wasn't even the most impressive performance turned in by the Irish crowd under Phelps' tenure. 
Just over three years later on March 5, 1977. the University of San Francisco was flirting with a perfect season at 29-0 when they walked onto Notre Dame's floor. They were subsequently greeted with chants of 29 (clap! clap!) and one (clap! clap!). 
The chorus reigned down on the Dons throughout the game growing in intensity as the Irish pulled away for a 93-82 victory. After the game, NBC's commen­tary team of Dick Enberg and Billy Packer made the unprece­dented move of giving the Player of the game award to the student body. 
ries over to the 
moment when the prime-time lights come on. Maybe that's why he's campaign­ing dorm-to-dorm in an effort to pack the JACC with 11,000 fans for the 11 A.M. broadcast. 
Even the administration seems to sense the opportunity to seize the moment. The doors to the JACC will be opened at 9:00 p.m. Friday for students who want to "campout" prior to Saturday's festivities. Notre Dame's also dropping their traditional anti-sign stance, offering a subtle encouragement to the student body. 
So come early. Be creative. And when the first Husky sets foot on that court, shake down the thunder like your life depends on it. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd. edu 
2009 Big East Standings 


Last game Next game (5-0) W, 78-59, RU at Syracuse (5-0) W, 91-82, PROV vs DePaul (6-1) W, 89-83, ~"Nova at Notre Dame 
(5-1) W, 78-60, ~"Cuse at West Virginia (5-2) L, 78-60, Pitt vs Louisville (5-2) W, 98-93, S. Hall vs Syracuse (3-2) W, 75-58, G'Town vs Pittsburgh (3-3) L, 58-75, WVU at Seton Hall (3-3) L, 74-93/Cuse vs Connecticut (3-4) W, 71-60, St. John's atUSF (2-3) L, 83-89, UConn vs Georgetown 





(2-4) W, 70~61, DePaul vs Villanova 

(1-5) L, 60-71, Cinci vs Rutgers 
(0-6) L, 93-98, Prov. vs Georgetown 
(0-6) L, 59-78, Louisville at St. John's 


L, 61-70, USF at Marquette 






Check out The"Obsel:'Ver's neW sports blog, featuring updates on every sport: observersportsblog. wordpress.com. 
Ifyou are interested in writing for Sports, e-ma~l Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu or Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Friday, January 23, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 



Tory's story 
Tory Jackson's childhood was a good warmup for the tall players he'd face in the Big Ea.st 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
Growing up, Tory Jackson did­n't possess a height advantage. 
As the 13th of 14 children growing up in Saginaw. Mich .. Jackson constantly had to fight his bigger, older siblings for everything from toys, to the extra food on the dinner table, to who would do the chores around the house. It was rare when he came away victorious. 
"It was probably one of the toughest challenges I faced so far. fighting for everything and me being so little," said Jackson, who's listed at 5-foot-11. "The older kids, they got everything. They beat me to it or they were just too big and I couldn't take it from them." 
On the court, the results weren't much different. For the first 13-plus years of his life, Jackson's frequent foe, his brother Cory, one year his senior, his family in a game of one-on­one is no longer a problem, those early defeats helped form him into one of the best guards in the Big East and continue to inspire him to get better. 
"All the talent came I have came from God and it came from my family beating me up all the time back in the qay," Jackson said. 
One man's suspension is another's opportunity 
Once he got to Notre Dame, Jackson wasn't playing as much as he'd like. 
Kyle McAlarney was Notre Dame's starting point guard and the Irish also had scorers in the backcourt in Colin Falls and Russell Carter. Jackson got his minutes coming off the bench, something he never did in his playing career. 
"When I first got here, I was like, 'I want to play right away,' But that's not the case all the time," Jackson said. "This was 
always had the the first time I
"When I was growing

upper hand. was coming off 
When Tory was up, it was a tough the bench, all in eighth grade, challenge, but I was through high he finally beat his school all
raised to take [a

brother. through elemen­"We had a challenge] and go tary, everything, rivalry, it was like with it. I didn't let it I always started, the Pistons and always played
phase me." 

the Bulls and big minutes. every rivalry you Coming in, can think of, Tory Jackson beginning of my Michigan vs. Ohio Irish guard freshman year, I "So much competition, and it made you want to work and fix each other and see what was wrong with my jump shot." 

As a result, Jackson's touch has become noticeably softer this season. His arc has improved, and his shooting per­centage has gone up. Jackson is shooting 43.3 percent from the field, up from 38.6 a year ago, and is 37.5 percent from 3-point range, up from 30.2 percent last season. He's averaging 11.4 points per game, Notre Dame's third-leading scorer this season. He's third in the league in assists, averaging just under six per game. And he's still averag­ing 4.6 rebounds per game. 
But this season, Notre Dame has struggled defensively on its way to a 3-3 record in the Big East this season and Jackson is taking it upon himself to remedy that. 
"I feel like defensively I should set a spark. Offensively not much should change, maybe shot selection. Defensively, I should set a spark. I think everybody else will feed off it." 
But regardless of his statistics and regardless of winning or los­ing, there's always one phone call Jackson makes everyday. 
''I'll call my mom, [Sarah], because I know she'll say some­thing good, something that'll really pick me up and even if I don't smile, I have to fight it sometimes," Jackson said. ''I'll want to be so tough, but she'll say something to make me smile." 
Jackson recognizes that his size is going to be an obstacle he'll have to overcome to play in the NBA. It's hard to predict where he'll end up when gradu­ates next May, but without his family, Jackson probably would­n't have any shot at all of mak­ing the league. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

State," Jackson said. "I feel like our rivalry was tougher than all of theirs because we had to do everything, we had to fight for food, we had to fight each other growing up. It was always a competition." . 
That competition served Jackson well. To beat Cory and his other siblings, Jackson learned how to be a scrapper. He fought for every loose ball, fought for every rebound and used his quickness to offset his siblings' height and strength, something he does to opponents every night in the Big East. 
While beating any member of 

had to play 
behind K-Mac, and it was one of those learning things." 
Then McAlarney was arrested for marijuana posses.sion just before Big East play started in the 2006-07 season and subse­quently suspended from the University for the rest of the semester. Jackson was now Notre Dame's starting point guard. And Jackson was ready to take over, thanks in part to his childhood. 
"It was one of those things, it kind of reminded me of my past," Jackson said. "When I was growing up, it was a tough 
Roy Hibbert that freshman year. I
"I expected a lot

caught the atten­expected myself tion of everyone more, especially to be a lot better at Madison coming offthat and I never 
Square Garden really adjusted
freshman year. I

that night. Even to teams' 
though Notre expected myselfto be defenses. Dame lost in the a lot better and I "They finally final seconds. knew about me.
never really adjusted 

Jackson's 20-In high school I 
to teams' defenses." 

point. eight­was playing dif­rebound and five­ferent teams assist perform­(Saginaw Buena
Tory Jackson 

ance was hard to Vista) It was one
Irish guard 

challenge, but I was raised to take [a challenge] and go with it. I didn't let it phase me." 
Jackson got off to a rocky start in his new role. He had three points and five turnovers in his first start against Stony Brook. 
"The first five minutes of the Stony Brook game, Falls and I kind of looked at each other because he had two turnovers and we were like, 'Oh no, is this going to work?" Brey said. 
But those doubts about Jackson were erased in his sec­ond game as a starter when Notre Dame played Louisville. 
Jackson had 14 points, five rebounds and four assists in a 78-62 win on Jan. 3. Jackson grew up fast his freshman year. 
"To be thrown into that and handle it with the maturity that he did was really impressive," Brey said. 
When Falls and Carter weren't getting the ball as much as they might like, it was Jackson who took the blame and played peacemaker. 
"I respect them because they were a lot older and I expected them to feel that way," Jackson said. "It was one of those things where I knew what was coming so I took the blame for it because I felt like I was strong enough mentally and physically to take it." 
Jackson helped lead Notre Dame to an 11-5 conference record. 
The culmination of his season came against Georgetown in the semifmals of the Big East tour­nament. All the skills he picked up playing his older taller sib­lings seemed to culminate that night. when Jackson made a dizzying array of plays around the basket late in the game. including multiple reverse layups going into the paint against 7-foot-3 
forget. 
"It was one of those nights, just playing on that floor. it's always amazing to play there," Jackson said. "It was one of those things where I was excited but at the same time had to hide it because it was in the middle of a game." 
Showing such promise his freshman year. Jackson set the bar high for himself for the' fol­lowing year 
Learning to adjust 
By his sophomore season, the word was out on Tory Jack~on. No longer would teams let him burn them the way he did Georgetown. They laid off Jackson to guard against his ability to drive, and tried to make him settle for jump shots. 
He ended up scoring 8.0 points per game, averaging an unusu­ally high 5.1 rebounds per game for someone his height. Most likely a product of having to bat­tle his older siblings for the ball in those one-on-one games when he was younger. 
But most importantly for his team, he led the Big East with 
6.1 assists per game as Notre Dame finished 14-4 in confer­ence play. 
It was a successful season by most standards, except his own. 
"I felt like it was one of those years where it was a down year from me," Jackson said. "I expected a lot more, especially 
coming off that 
of those things 
where I was playing different teams and nobody had a scouting report, but in college everybody's scout­ing you, they got something on you and I never really adjusted and tried to fix my game." 
And where would Jackson turn to fix his game? His family. 
Evolving into a complete player 
Jackson knew he had to devel­op his jump shot headed into his junior year, and his family was there to help inspire him to keep working at it. Some of Jackson's family members relocated to South Bend and worked out with him over the summer. Naturally, the Jackson's couldn't help but turn their workouts into a com­petition. 
"I was thankful for my broth­ers being around and at times we would be in the gym working out after hours or something like that, or just shooting around and they would start some kind of competition and the jump shoot­ing would begin," Jackson said. 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 23, 2009 
Notre Dame welcomes trash-talking H~skies 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
There is a palpable buzz in the air for the No. 19 Irish. Who said Notre Dame is a "football school?" 
No. 3 Connecticut is coming to town and brings with it ESPN's College Gameday, trash talk and many other factors that should motivate the Irish, who are looking to break a two­game losing streak. 
Much of the student body plans to flood the Joyce Center Saturday morning to catch a glimpse of Rece Davis, Bobby Knight, Hubert Davis, Jay Bilas and ...,--of coursB. -Digger Phelps. 
"With Cpllege Gameday being here, it's a great honor to be part of that," Irish co-captain Ryan Ayers said. "It'll be excit­ing and it is a big game ... We kind of relish these opportuni­ties to show people what we can do, especially on a big national stage." 
After a week off since they lost to Syracuse last Saturday, the Irish will square off against the Huskies at 7:30, and Irish coach Mike Brey said the Leprechaun Legion will be going wild. 
"I think this crowd will be the best I've seen since I've been here and that's saying som·e­thing," said Brey, who has guid­ed the Irish for nine years. "I can feel it building, I can feel the crescendo. And I think we will feel an intensity and an energy in the building Saturday night that maybe has never been in this building, and I really believe that." 

The Irish are currently riding a 45-game home winning streak and, with a win Saturday, would set a record for consecutive Big East home wins with 20. 
"It's awesome. I'm very, very proud of [the streak] and I think it says how consistent the group has been to put us in position to actually break it," Brey said. ''I'm very proud of the group." 
Which brings us to Jeff Adrien. After a win over Seton Hall Sunday, the Connecticut forward uttered some trash talk about Notre Dame's Joyce Center dominance. 
"It's going to feel good to break [Notre Dame's] home winning streak," Adrien told the Associated Press. "It's a tough place to play, but we can do it. We almost did it last year." 
The Irish players had meas­ured responses to Adrien's comments. 
"We kind of just laugh at it, use it as motivation," Ayers said. "We're not going to say anything back to him obviously, we're just going to let our play do the talking." 
Nonetheless, Adrien's quote was the second insult of Notre Dame by a Connecticut player. In November, Huskies center Hasheem Thabeet appeared on the cover of ESPN the Magazine and took a jab at Irish forward Luke Harangody. Alongside a picture of Thabeet ran this quote: "Nobody's better than me, only more experienced. I played Luke Harangody and he was not tough ... " 
"There's definitely going to be a lot of hype with this game especially with what Adrien said and what Thabeet's been saying, so that might add a little excitement for the game," Harangody said. "But personal­ly I'm going to take it as just another game." 
Still, Harangody admitted he is excited to stand toe to toe with the 7 -foot-3 Thabeet. 
"It's always a fun matchup with him. It's such a challenge because he's such a great play­er," Harangody said. "So yeah, you do circle this one on the schedule." 
Last season, Harangody scored just 14 points on 5-of-23 shooting during Notre Dame's 73-67 win over Connecticut on Jan. 5. But Harangody exploded for 32 points and 16 rebounds in a February rematch that, oddly enough, the Irish lost. 
However, Harangody pointed out that Saturday's game will be about a lot more than the matchup in the paint. He said he expects Ayers and senior forward Zach Hillesland to bounce back after several rough games on the road. 
"I think coming home is going add an element to guys like Zach and Ryan," Harangody said. "They're capable of put­ting up big numbers so I think you'll be able to see that Saturday." 
Brey agreed that his team is looking forward to returning to the Joyce Center. It will be Notre Dame's first Big East home game of the year while school is in session. 

"I've missed our students because they haven't been at a home game since the [Boston University] game and they pulled us through that one," Brey said. "Our players, more importantly, have missed hav­ing the student body there because that drives the energy in the building. They've certain­ly been rested up so they can let it rip Saturday." 
Ayers added: "It's probably going to be one of the greatest games I've ever played in. We're playing against a great team, a top-five team, so it's just going to be awesome. The crowd's going be buzzing." 
Yes, there is certainly consid­erable excitement about Saturday's matchup with the Huskies. So don't be surprised to see tailgates and rabid fans all over campus this weekend. It may be mid-January but there is football-sized hype sur­rounding this game. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


2008-2009 TERRENCE R. KEELEY VISITING VATICAN LECTURE SPONSORED BY THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
Catholicism and Secularism in Contemporary Europe 
ARCHBISHOP ANGELO AMATO, S.D.B. 
PREFECT OF THE CONGREGATION FOR THE CAUSES OF SAINTS 
·­
MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2009 

7:30PM, HESBURGH CENTERAUDIT.ORIUM 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
* NANOVlC 

WNOTREDAME http:I I nanovic.nd. edu .INSTITUTE 
FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 


I 

I 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE 
page 11

Friday, January 23, 2009 
By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Editor 
Tonight, Fortnight productions, an event series sponsored by the Student Activities Office, returns with its latest production,"Now Playing: Songs from the 2009 Broadway Season." The per­formance, a revue featuring well­known songs from contemporary Broadway shows, is free for students. 
Kyle Chamberlain, a student at the Notre Dame Law School a.nd graduate of the University, is one of the people behind Fortnight Productions, an ini­tiative of Student Activities that first came into being last year. According to Chamberlain, the project began as an effort to reach out to students whose academic or personal schedules kept them from getting involved with other, larger productions on campus. 
"When I was an undergrad," Chamberlain told Scene in a recent interview, "I never did _any theater work, which was a big departure from high school, where I performed all year round. I was too busy to commit back then." 
Chamberlain said that the philosophy of Fortnight Productions is threefold: One, that their shows are always per­formed on weekends, so students can easily attend; two, that the perform­ances are always free for students; and three, that the entire production sched­ule will take no more than two weeks. Th.is approach then allows students who have an interested in theater but aren't necessarily free to join•larger campus groups, such as the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCO) or the Farley Hall Players, to participate in similar activities. 
The short time span of each produc­tion also encourages students who haven't worked in musical theater before to try their hand at theatrical performance. The students involved in Fortnight Productions, Chamberlain noted, range from the very experienced to those who've never set foot on a stage before. 
"We have some people whose first time on stage is now," he said. "We draw from a lot of different groups." 
Chamberlain first came up with the idea of Fortnight Productions while working for Student Activities last year. 
"I tried to think of what I would enjoy as an undergrad. The mantra behind Fortnight is that it's an opportunity for talented performers who are involved in other things -those whose sched­ules keep them too busy -have a chance to act." 
This year, the event series moves to Washington Hall -their previous pro­duction, a similar musical revue, was held in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Chamberlain promised that the revue's selections are both varied and fun, drawing from a wide range of Broadway shows that students should recognize. 
"The current revue has songs from shows that are playing or ~ave played on Broadway sometime this year. That includes some newer stuff-, like 'Hairspray,' 'Wicked,' 'Jersey Boys,' the big blockbuster-s, and also older things, including revivals of 'South Pacific' and 'Guys and Dolls."' 
The revue format, Chamberlain noted, is well-suited to the range of tal­ent and strengths of the students involved in. the show. 
"The good part about the revue for­mat is that you can pick numbers that are well suited to the talent you have," 
..
.. 
Photo courtesy of Kyle Chamberlin 
An actor in Fortnight Production's "Now Playing" reherses for the company's
review-style performances this evening. 
he said: "If you have people that work well with a certain genre, you can find something that showcases their abili­ties. That's a big advantage." 
Highlights of the show will include selections from "Wicked," "Jersey Boys" and the recent stage adaptation of "The Little Mermaid." 
"I think people will really like the four guys who do some of the Jersey Boys numbers," Chamberlain said, "looking back on the Four Seasons. Some of the big ensemble numbers we're doing will also be highlights, including numbers from 'Spamalot,' and a performance of 'Under the Sea,' complete with a steel drum band." 
Ultimately, Chamberlain said he 
hoped to draw a wide variety of stu­dents to the revue for a fun night of musical theater. 
"This show has a little bit of some­thing for everybody," he said. "Musical theater fans will love it, but people who aren't normally interested in that art will also find something entertaining. It's a short time commitment, and it's free. You don't have anything to lose." 
"Now Playing" begins tonight at 9:00 
p.m. in Washington Hall, and is free to students with a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross ID. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 


By ADRINA PRATT Scene Writer 
Thomas Aquinas once said, "Doubt is the beginning of wisdom." When it is brought to Sister Aloysius's (Meryl Streep) attention that the new priest at her 1964 Catholic church and school in the Bronx might have made homosexu­al come-ons to the school's first African American student, doubt is not a word to be found in the severe no-nonsense woman's vocabulary. 
Even though F.r. Flynn is very well liked as the parish priest whose homi­lies transcend heavenly matters by infusing inspiring doses of pragmatism, his charming personality and warm persona only irritate and displease Sister Aloysius more and the issue is not to be treated lightly on her part. 
Tired of the changes Vatican II is attempting to make and the rascally students who are constantly trying to pull the wool over her eyes, Sister Aloysius's patience has fatigued and no plea will convince her that Fr. Flynn (Philip Seymour Hoffman) is innocent. 
Sister James (Amy Adams), the nai:ve and innocent young sister who brought the suspicions of the miscreant behav­ior to Sister Aloysius's attention when she smelled alcohol on young Donald Miller's breath after a visit to Fr. Flynn's rectory, plays the gullible go-between, changing her opinion on 
who's guilty based on Though this film hand and her black whose side of the story bonnet severely
received many
she most recently heard. strapped tight to her
accolades and acclaim
Another twist to the head, Sister Aloysius plot comes when, in for its adaptation of leaves behind Mrs. Sister Aloysius's attempt Miller's request and
the 2004 play to the 
to uncover more evi­has one final con­
screen, it was overly
dence of Fr. Flynn's cor­frontation with Fr. ruption of her youthful praised. Flynn. 
out what was possibly taking place and also because African Americans did not have much of a chance to succeed aca­demically during that time period and it would only be a few more months until Donald could graduate and they could put all of this 
behind them. 
With a rosary in her 

son, Mrs. Miller (Viola Davis) reveals to Sister Aloysius that Donald is "that way" and that she· will allow any attention he receives from Fr. Flynn to continue. 
The issue further complicates itself when Mrs. Miller begs Sister Aloysius not to make anything of it, both because Donald's father would most likely beat her son to death if he found 
In this climactic scene Sister Aloysius 
• snarls that she will accept nothing less than Fr. Flynn's dis­missal from their parish. 
A conversation between the two sis­ters who brought this case to light reveals the complexities of each of their characters and the soft core that lies beneath Sister Aloysius's tough exterior. A fantastic performance by Meryl Streep brings the many dimen­sions of her character full circle. The audience leaves wondering which aspect Sister Aloysius doubted -her accusation of Fr. Flynn, or even more consequential, a doubt of her very own faith. 
Though this film received many acco­lades and acclaim for its adaptation of the 2004 play to the screen, it was overly praised. The fact that it was about a controversial topic (in particu­lar one that deals with homosexual Catholic priests -a media favor 
ite) brought it enormous attention. The performances were beautifully done and the words were beautifully spoken, but the storyline made for an overall unexciting plot, a key compo­nent to any movie that deserves true praise. See this film if you are in the mood for something thought-provoking; but it is not worth skipping your home­work to do because, as Sister Aloysius says, "Every easy choice today will have its consequence tomorrow." 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
-

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 23, 2009 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Butler's 27 points le~ds West Virgina to upset 
Streaking Boilermakers shut down Minnesota with strong defensive effort; Butler rallies to win over Wisconsin-GB 
an eye-popping driving dunk shot off. Georgetown turned the
Associated Press 

that gave the Mountaineers a ball over 11 times in the first 
WASHINGTON -So West 59-48 lead with 51!2 minutes to half and went more than five Virginia is the ninth-best team in play. His play came shortly after minutes without a field goal the Big East? If so, that's going a 12-3 run that put the lead in near the end of the half. ­to be some tournament at double digits for the first time. The Mountaineers used that Madison Square Garden in West Virginia (14-4, 3-2) has Georgetown dry spell to go on a March. won eight of 10, with the only 9-0 run and take a 31-22 lead, 
Da'Sean Butler scored 27 two losses coming to ranked Big highlighted by Devin Ebanks' points, a relentless defense East foes Connecticut and steal and two-handed dunk. forced 19 turnovers and the Marquette. Monroe stopped the momentum Mountaineers knocked hard on Chris Wright scored 13 points, with a steal and layup under the the door of the conference's DaJuan Summers had 12 and West Virginia basket after a eight ranked teams Thursday Greg Monroe added 11 for the Mountaineers rebound, and the night with a 75-58 win over No. Hoyas (12-5, 3-3). Hoyas went into the break trail­12 Georgetown. The Mountaineers were sup­ing 31-26. 
In a game in which nearly posed to signal the start of the The Mountaineers built the every basket was hard-earned softer part of a Georgetown lead to nine points again early in -and steals were sometimes schedule that so far has been the second half, but three-point canceled out by quick counter­the toughest in the country. Five plays from Wright and Monroe steals -Butler stood out by of the Hoyas' previous six oppo­and a nice backdoor pass Trom going 11-for-18 from the field. nents were Top 20 teams, but Monroe to Omar Wattad helped The Mountaineers shot 58 per­even an unranked school is a close the gap before West cent in the second half, while handful in the Big East this sea­Virginia began to pull away for the No. 1 scoring defense in the son. good. Big East limited the Hoyas to 33 Getting an open shot was hard percent shooting after the break. work from the start. The No. 18 Purdue 70, No. 21 
Georgetown went 2-for-16 Mountaineers missed eight of Minnesota 62 from 3-point range for the game their first nine and trailed 9-2 Behind relentless defensive llummel came off the bench and hoop and Keaton Grant hit a 3­and again had trouble on the before turning the tide with pressure, and 19 points and five scored five points. But with pointer from the top of the key boards, allowing 16 second­Butler's three-point play and a blocks from JaJuan Johnson, Moore, Johnson and Jackson to give the Boilermakers a 4 7-35 chance points on West Virginia's four-point play resulting from an Purdue banged its way to a vic­going a combined 16-for-27 lead with 11:36 to go. 14 offensive rebounds. intentional foul following a steq.l tory over Minnesota on against a humbled Minnesota 
Darryl Bryant added 13 at midcourt. Thursday night. defense, Purdue cruised. No. 16 Butler 68, Wisconsin­points, and Alex Ruoff had nine The Hoyas shot relatively well E'Twaun Moore added 16 The Gophers take pride in the Green Bay 59 assists and 10 points, including at first -when they could get a points for Purdue (15-4, 4-2 Big defensive end as well. Tubby Matt Howard scored 15 points 
Ten), which won its fourth Smith's crew entered the night and Butler got its ofl'ense in sync straight conference game after second in the Big Ten in field in the second half, rallying to an 0-2 start. The Boilermakers goal percentage defense at 39 beat conference rival Wisconsin­entered charged-up Williams percent, and the Gophers had 12 Green Bay on Thursday. Arena with the second-ranked steals and 10 blocks in this one. The Bulldogs won their ninth field goal percentage defense in But Purdue shot better than in a row overall, their ninth the country and made life miser­50 percent for most of the game straight over the Phoenix and able all evening for the Gophers to overcome 17 turnovers. are now 17-1 (8-0 Horizon (16-3, 4-3). The Gophers have been ham­League) for the first time in 
AI Nolen had 17 points on 3-pered by slow starts for much of school history. for-14 shooting and four steals the season, and Thursday night Rahmon Fletcher scored 22 for Minnesota, which shot a sea­was no different. They missed points for Green Bay (14-6, 6-2), son-low 27.6 percent, including 13 of their first 18 shots and which lost for only the second 3 for 19 from 3-point range, to committed 11 turnovers in the time in 10 games. lose its second in a row. first 15 minutes to fall behind Butler haJ> won 19 straight 
The Gophers trailed nearly the 27-15. Horizon League games and entire game and were run out of Moore made 5 of 7 shots in the improved to 9-0 at home this The Barn by a 17-6 run midway period, but the Boilermakers season with the victory. through the second half. Lewis missed five free throws and For two of the conference's Jackson scored seven points in turned the ball over nine times hottest teams, this was anything the spurt and Johnson punctuat­to allow Minnesota to hang but a typical night. ed it with an emphatic dunk to around at 36-29. Howard and Willie Veasley get the Boilermakers rolling As the game wore on, the spent most of the first half on toward another win. Gophers grew frustrated. Butler's bench because of foul 
Purdue looked shaky early in Leading-scorer -Lawrence trouble, and Green Bay got itself the conference season because Westbrook missed six of his into foul trouble early in the sec­of injuries to floor leader Robbie eight field goals, and two of ond half. Hummel and defensive specialist those were on forced drives to The shooting was brutal early, Chris Kramer. Both arn healing the basket in transition midway too. Butler was 7 -of-25 from the up now, and Purdue is looking through the second half that field in the first half, giving the more like the team that was were swatted away by Purdue's Phoenix a chance to take advan­picked as a favorite to win the superb help deli:mders. · tage. Instead, Green Bay was Big Ten. Following those blocks, 1 0-of-27 and led only 25-22 at 
Still slowed by a back injury, Jackson scored on a drive to the the half. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reseyves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. • 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED VOLUNTEERS WANTED The Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC), located at Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers. If you would enjoy spending 2 hours per week reading to preschool children, building with blocks and playing games, please attend one of the Volunteer Sign-Up Sessions on either Thursday, 1/29 or Friday 1/30 from 3:00-5:00. Volunteering at ECDC is a wonderful opportunity to support the develop­ment of delightful children and is an excellent addition to your resume_ ECDC-ND is located on the ND cam­pus on Bulla Road, across from 0 Hara Grace Residences at the oomer of Leahy and Bulla_ For more informa­tion please call 631-3344 or www.nd.edu/-ecdcnd  FoR RENT Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing_ Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes close to campus. Safe Neighborhood, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2 car garage, 1 Ox20 decks. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038_ From $1 ,700/mo  Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. Unfurnished 4-bdrm, 3ba,fpl,skylights, 2-car-garage, FR. deluxe appl, avaiL August Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038. Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/1 o_ CES Property Management 574-968-0112 CESPM.info  613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2-bdrm houses. $350/person_ Call 574-876-6333. Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www. kramerhouses.com NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS_ 2.5 BATHS_ FREE INTERNET NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWWKRAMERHOUSES.COM  PERSONAL Happy Birthday Matt! Love Mom, Dad, and Chris Sandy brown haired sailor looking for a loveboat Enjoys long walks around the lake, smooth jazz, and will cuddle_ Meet at duck island at 5:30 today. -CB Congratulations to the Morrissey Manor lnterhall Baseball Team, possibly the greatest of all time_ The original filling in Twinkies was banana. It was replaced by vanilla­flavored cream during World War II, when the United States experi­enced a banana shortage.  There are no female characters in Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island because he was following the instructions of his stepson, Lloyd Osbourne, for whom he wrote the book_ Lloyd wanted a story "about a map, a treasure, a mutiny and a derelict ship ___ No women in the story." The longest movie ever screened was a 1970 British film that lasted 48 hours, 0 minutes_ Believe it or not, its n~e is The Longest and Most Meaningless Movie in the World. The computer in 2001 : A Space Odyssey as a tongue-in-cheek ref­erence to IBM. The name was derived from the fact that the letters H-A-L precede the letters 1-B-M in the alphabet  
-­ 
...  


----~ 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, January 23, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVEitS WIRE SERVICES page 13 
AP Cardinals receiver Anquan Boldin, right, catches a pass in the NFC Campionship game against Philadelphia on January 18. Boldin and the Cardinals will play the Pittsburgh Steelers in Super Bowl XLIII. 
Receiver Boldin laughs off run-in 
USCHO/CBS College Sports Division I Men's Hockey Top 20 
team points record 
1 NOTRE DAME (38) 986 19·3-3 2 Boston U. (7) 931 16-5-1 3 Cornell (5) 877 13-1-3 4 Denver 828 15-6·2 5 Northeastern 821 15-5-2 6 Minnesota 753 12-5-5 7 Vermont 673 13~5-3 8 Michigan 637 16-8-0 
g 
Princeton 562 13-5-0 10 Miami (OH) 507 13-8-3 11 New Hampshire 468 11-6-4 12 Ohio St. 467 16-6-2 13 Colorado Col. 427 13-8-5 14 Boston College 320 9-8-3 15 North Dakota .316 14-10-2 16 Wisconsin 280 13·10·3 17 Minn. Duluth 123 11-1-6­18 Dartmouth 117 10-7-0 19 AI as. Fairbanks 100 11·8c5 20 Air Force 94 15-6-1 
USTFCCCA Division I Men's Indoor Track and Field Top 25 
team points 
1 Oregon 132 
2 Arizona St. 130 
3 Arkansas 129 
4 Florida 126 
5 Florida St. 104 
6 TexasA&M 102 
7 Texas 82 
8 LSU 79 
9 Louisville 73 
10 BYU 71 
11 Kentucky 69 
12 Texas Tech 67 
13 UNI 65 
14 Baylor 59 
15 Nebraska 56 
16 South Carolina 55 
17 Michigan 54 
18 Kansas St. 52 
19 Arizona 51 
20 Georgia 49 
21 Georgetown 48 
22 Boise St. 47 
23 Missouri 42 
24 UCLA 41 
25 Stanford 40 
MIAA Women's Basketball Rankings 
team record 
1 Marquette 
2 louisville 
3 Connecticut 
4 Pittsburgh 
5 Syracuse 
6 Providence 
7 Georgetown 
8 NOTREDAME 
9 West Virginia 
10 Villanova 
11 Cincinnati 
12 USF 


around the dial 
NBA 
Mavericks at Pistons 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
X-GAMES 
Winter X-Games 13 
9:30 p.m., ESPN 

NFL 

Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. -Arizona wide receiver Anquan Boldin laughed off the nega­tive reaction to his nationally televised run-in with offen­sive coordinator Todd Haley, calling it "hilarious." 
Boldin's shouting match with the coach on the side­line came as Arizona drove for the winning touchdown in Sunday's 32-25 victory over Philadelphia in the NFC championship game. 
Boldin didn't stay on the field in the postgame cele­bration, making a quick exit through the locker room. He said that he did congratulate his teammates and left quickly only to avoid ques-
IN BRIEF McGwire accused of 
steroid use by brother NEW YORK -Mark McGwire's youngest brother says in a book proposal that he injected the former baseball star with steroids, accord­ing to Deadspin.com. 
Jay McGwire is circulating a man­uscript titled "The McGwire Family Secret: The Truth about Steroids, a slugger and Ultimate Redemption," the Web site reported Wednesday. Jay McGwire, a body builder, said his brother started using steroids in 1994 and that he injected Mark with Deca-Durabolin. 
"Mark is a man I think most would like to forgive because his reason wasn't nefarious -it was for survival," the proposal says, according to the Web site. "My bringing the truth to surface about Mark is out of love. I want Mark to live in truth to see the light, to come to repentance so he can live in free­dom -which is the only way to· live." 
tions about the Haley inci­dent. 
Instead, he acknowledged after Thursday's practice, his abrupt departure "made it worse." 
"For me it's hilarious," Boldin said of the criticism he's received. "I mean, I don't want to sit here and dwell on it because for me it's in the past, but that's something that goes on every week in the NFL whether people know it or not. 
"Every week, somebody on the sidelines gets into an argument, but it's in the heat of the moment, it's part of football and once it's done, it's dead on all sides." 
Team leaders Adrian 
First basemen Fielder signs 
two-year deal with Brewers MILWAUKEE -First baseman Prince Fielder and the Milwaukee Brewers reached a preliminary agreement Thursday on an $18 mil­lion, two-year contract. The agreement is subject to a physi­cal, Brewers general manager Doug Melvin said. Melvin declined to discuss the con­tract's value. "There's things you have to do to get to that point to finalize deals," Melvin said. "We won't have any­thing _tonight, but there's a good possibility we could have something tomorrow." Milwaukee renewed Fielder's con­tract last year for $670,000, and Fielder was eligible for arbitration for the first time. He asked for $8 million and the Brewers offered $6 million when figures were exchanged Tuesday. He can become a free agent after the 2011 season. 
Wilson and Kurt Warner strongly defended Boldin. 
"I think people are making a lot out of nothing," Wilson said. "That stuff happens all the time. Q is very dedicated to this team, very dedicated to the players. I think it's a non-issue." 
Warner said it was "crazy" for people to define BolQ.in's personality by this one inci­dent after "everything that guy's done all year and the character he's displayed all year long." 
Boldin acknowledged it was a lesson in how things are magnified when a team reaches this point. 
"The attention has grown," Boldin said. "Do you have to be careful? I guess 
Former All-Star Mourning 
to retire due to leg injury MIAMI -Alonzo Mourning has decid­ed to retire rather than moilllt another NBA comeback at age 38. The seven-tiine All-Star center said Thursday he won't return from a dev­astating leg injury Dec. 19, 2007 -the fourth anniversary of his lifesaving kid­ney transplant. He had been working out at the Miami Heat complex and said he's running and jmnping again, but he feared another leg injury ifhe returned. "My health is more important than any­thing," Mourning said at a news confer­ence. "God willing I'll be able to live another 40 or 50 years, and I want to do it in a comfortable state. Right now I'm there." Mourning, who turns 39 next month, played at Georgetown and was the sec­ond overall pick in the 1992 draft by the Charlotte Hornets. He also played for New Jersey but spent the majority of his career with the Heat, helping them reach the playoffs six COI)Secutive 
years. 
-
so, but at the same time you can't alter who you are. You can only be you and let the rest take care of itself." 
He added: "Guys in the locker room know what kind of guy I am and they know exactly what went on." 
Boldin said he was upset that Haley had gone to a personnel group that didn't include him. 
"I was mad because they took me out of the game," Boldin said. "I mean, I think any competitor would have had the same reaction. A game of that magnitude, how close the game was, potentially driving to score a touchdown, I wanted to be in there. That's just the type ofguyi am." 


Friday, January 23, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
By ERIC PRISTER Spores Wrirer 
The Belles will look to carry over momentum from their dominant performance over Albion College last weekend as they take on Hillsdale Saturday. 
Saint Mary's won all but one event against Albion, and were led by season-best performanc­es from senior Melissa Gerbeth in the 1000 and 200 yard freestyle events, and from 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim­ming and diving team returns to action this weekend when it hosts the Shamrock Invitational for the fourth time at the-Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The meet will consist of three sessions that span a two-day peri­od and it will be run in a champi­onship style format. The Irish hope the championship style will prepare for the upcoming Big East conference championships. 
"This is an important competi­tion for us," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "It is our last major tune-up before the Big East con­ference championships." 
The Irish will welcome a strong field to Rolfs, as Denver, Michigan State aiJd West Virginia will be making the trip to Notre Dame. 
"The field this year is excel­lent," Welsh said. "West Virginia 


Irish host tough competition 
B u d s t r 0 n g e 

t 0 b e t t a b 0 u t y 0 
w a n u n 
H 0 w s 
A r e y 0 u n t e r e s t e y 0 u r s e I f u n a b I e t I 0 0 k n g f 0 r s 0 m e 
I f s 0 y 0 u r e n 0 t 
p. r 0 J e c t n t h e F a m c 0 u p I e s w t h t e e n s t 0 c a l I 
0 r J u a s c h 0 r J a c k e B a u t e r s a 
e m a t f c p t 
-

was the Big East conference champion two years ago. Michigan State is enjoying their bE!st year in quite a while and Denver beat us in the Ohio State Invitational in December. So the field is very strong and that is exactly what we want." 
The Irish are looking for strong swims this weekend and hope to stop their current four meet los­ing streak that dates back to a 172.5-86.5 loss to Ohio State on Nov. 21. That loss came before Notre Dame's fourth place finish in the Ohio State Invitational, which was also the Irish's last championship style meet. 
Despite two dual meet losses last weekend, the Irish still had impressive individual accomplish­ments, led by junior John Lytle. Lytle's four individual wins last weekend earned him Big East Athlete of the Week honors in swimming and diving. This week­end, the Irish look to get a sense 
freshman Audrey Dalrymple, who set 'personal records in the 100 and 200-yard breast­stroke, the latter being a school record as well. 
Dalrymple has been a valu­able addition to the team this season, leading the team in victories along with freshman Eva Cavadini and sophomore Maggie Williams. 
Hillsdale comes into the_meet with a 9-2 record in dual meets, and last faced the Belles in the TYR Invitational. Saint of where they stand as a team heading into the Big East confer­ence championships. 
"We would like to see where we are in our primary events," Welsh said. "This is a weekend we cer­tainly want to measure improve­ment." 
Prior to the Saturday evening session, Notre Dame will honor seniors Bill Bauman, Michael Bulfin, Jace Hopper, Danny Lutkus, Daniel Rave, Mitchell Sherman, Jeff Wood and manager Mike Mashura as they wrap up their home careers. 
The Shamrock Invitational will begin with the first session at 6:00 
p.m. on Friday, resume with the second session on Saturday at 
10:00 a.m. and conclude with the tQird session on Saturday evening at 5:00 p.m. All events will take place at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Mary's finished fourth in that meet, one place behind Hillsdale . 
. After Saturday's meet, the Belles have two home meets against Kalamazoo and Olivet before competing in the MIAA Championships February 19-21 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Belles take the pool at 1 
p.m. at the John "Jack" McAvoy Natatorium in Hillsdale, Mich. 
. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

OPEN HOUSE 2009-10 SCHOOL YEAR 
at the Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame 
Come See Our Program and Meet Our 
. Early Childhood 
Early Childhood Teachers 
Development Center, Inc.
ECDC·ND Open House Dates: 
at Notre Dan1e
Sunday. 2/1/09 ... 1:30 -3:00 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles travel to final avvay meet 
-

----~----------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS. Friday, January 23, 1008 
MEN'S TRACK & FIELD 

Three teains travel to invitational at Loftus, 
ND WoMEN's TRACK & FIELD 

Irish hope for success at home 
conditions of an actual meet. tum it has built up over the 
By ALEX BARKER 

"This meet will be an oppor­last few weeks. Sports Writer 
tunity for the whole team to "Our team goal is to win the 
come together to compete in a meet," he said. "Individually, 
The Irish will line up scored team meet, which is our athletes are looking to against some of their toughest one of the few that we com­improve on their performanc­competition of the season this pete in annually," he said. "It es and hopefully establish weekend when they host the should be a very competitive some Big East and NCAA Notre Dame Invitational meet in all events and I know qualification performances." tonight at the Loftus Sports our athletes are looking for­Looking ahead past Friday, Center. It will be the third of ward to it. " Millar sens a bright futurn for five meets scheduled to be So far this season, the Irish the Irish as they move into hosted by the have looked the tougher meets in their Irish this sea-very strong. In schedule. son. last week's "So far. the indoor season 
"The level of ''These schools have a Notre Dame has been succossful," ho said. competition· Opener held at "We have had somo individual
number of 

will be very Loftus. the NCAA qualifiers. a number of
outstanding

good," associ­Irish had 12 athletes performing at a high­ate head coach individuals." womPn qualify er level than this timo last John Millar fur the Big yoar, and I belinvn we an~ on said. "We are E a s t sdwduln to continue improv­
John Millar 

running a Championship, ing as tho major meets of thn ~ 
Irish coach 

scored-meet including sen-year approach." with Wisconsin. ior poln­Friday's Invitational will Michigan State vaultnr Mary kil'.k-ofT with the long jump and Marquette. These schools Saxer whose jump of 4.06-and wnight throw events at have a number of outstanding meters also qualified her for 5:30 p.m .. followed by thn individuals and solid overall the NCAA. regional meP-t and start of t.lw running evnnts at. temns." sp,t a Loftus wcord. 6::~0 p.m. 
Millar believes this meet will At Friday's Invitational, offer his team a great chance Millar hopes his team will be Contact Alex Barker at to· gain experience under the able to maintain thP momen-abarker 1 @nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

First-place Belles take on Thunder 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
For the second time in a little over a month, the Saint Mary's basketball team will take on MIAA rival Trine University, with tip-off set for Saturday at 3 p.m. On Dec. 3, the Belles took down Trine 80-72. 
"In this league you can't over­look anyone," head coach Jen Henley said. "Records and standings never truly indicate the strength of a team." 
Trine is cur­

to play our best in order to win, regardless of the team, we're put up against." 
The Thunder were a tough match for the Belles last time out when they tied the game at 41-41 less than three minutes into the second half 
However, the Belles stepped up to the challenge and opened up a 66-51 lead with 8:52 left to play. Trine never pulled within six points of the Belles the rest of the game. 
The Belles most recent win 
came over 
Kalamazoo, only 
a week after 
rently fifth in the "/ think we see all of dropping their conference only conference
the conference teams
standings with a game so far this 4-4 record, as big rivals. '' season. while Saint Saint Mary's Mary's is tied got off to a great
Jen Henley

with Hope for start in the
Belles. coach 
the conference lead, with both teams only hav­ing one loss. 
One of the biggest wins for 
the Belles this season came 
over No. 1 Hope. 
"Our team never gave up in the Hope game," Henley said. "We were down 10 points with 
6:15 left to go. We did a nice job with the boards down the stretch and our bench gave us nice offense down the stretch." 
The Belles will need to con­tinue their well-balanced attack to earn another win over Trine this time. 
Senior Erin Newsom has been a key player for Saint Mary's this season, breaking the school record for most all-time rebounds earlier in the year. 
"I think we see all of the con­ference teams as big rivals," Newsom said. "Some schools are seen as tougher teams to beat like Hope and Calvin, but we try to go into every game with the attitude that we need 

-
game against 
Kalamazoo, 
opening up a 
15-2 margin less than four minutes into the game. 
Freshman Patsy Mahoney was a force in the Kalamazoo game, shooting a perfect 6-6 from the floor, including 2-2 from behind the three-point line. 
"I think our freshmen have adapted well to their first sea­son of college basketball," Henley said. "I believe they understand what it takes to compete in this league as well as fmding the balance between academics and athletics." 
The Belles will look to contin­ue their inter-conference domi­nance in this game against Trine, and then they will travel to Calvin on Jan. 28. Tip-off is set for 3 p.m. against Trine, and then 6 p.m. against Calvin. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at 
kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Wrirer 
With the Big East Indoor Track & Field Championships less than a month away, tonight's Notre Dame Invitational will take on a little more-meaning, as the Irish host Michigan State, Wisconsin, and Marquette in the Loftus Cm1t11r in the first seomd meet fi>r tim teams this s11ason. 
The Irish hosted two indoor meets earlier this season, but this is the first meet in which team seorns will bP knpt. 
"Since it's a sc:ornd meet, som!' kids will be doing multiple events," Irish coach Jon Piann said. "Thnn•'s a premium on not just running well, jumping well. or throwing well. but also on placing wPII." 
The list of athletes com pPling in multiple 1wnnts is highlighted by junior Eric Quick, who will bn long and triple jumping. . 
This meet will be a pressure­cooker with compntition. Many athletes have their eyes on quali­fying for the NCAA Indoor Championships, and the three vis­iting teams all present stiff chal­lenges to the Fighting Irish. 
"Marquette usually has some individuals who are pretty talent­ed," Piano said. "Michigan State is probably the most improved team in the Big Ten, and Wisconsin is very good annually. In 2007 they did win the NCAA Indoor Championships as a team." 
The opponents notwithstand­ing, multiple Notre Dame com­petitors aim to qualify !'or the NCM Indoor Championships. 
Senior distanr.e· runner Dan Clark will be attempting to do such in tlw mile. According to Piano. in most years a time of 
4:04 would qualify Clark for the NCM<>, and a limn of 4:01 would assure him an entry. 
"Dan has a legitimate shot on Friday," Piane said. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 
NBA 


Howard leads East All-Star teain 
Associated Press 
OHLANDO, Fla. -He was the first to dress as Superman to win a dunk contest. 
He's now the first player to get 3 million votes from fans. 
Yes, the All-Star game is fast becoming Dwight Howard's personal showcase. 
The Orlando Magic center ­who leads the NBA in rebounds, blocked shots and double-doubles -got a record 3,150,181 votes to lead this season's All-Star team, released Thursday. 
The Feb. 15 game in Phoenix will mark the third All-Star trip for Howard, who'll be starting for the second time and easily topped the previous record of 2,558,278 votes col­lected by Houston's Yao Ming four years ago. 
"Wow, what a blessing," said Howard, the 6-foot-11 center who dressed in full Superman regalia, cape and all, on the way to winning last year's slam dunk competition. "That is what I took it as, a blessing from God and then the fans. It's just a great honor and I was surprised, but like always I thank the fans for everything they have done for us." 
The final results of fan bal­loting didn't exactly bring any major surprises. 
Miami's Dwyane Wade (2,741,413) and Detroit's Allen Iverson (1,804,649) will be in the East's baekcourt, alongside reigning All-Star MVP LeBron James of Cleveland (2,940,823) and Boston's Kevin Garnett (2,0(>6,833). who beat New Jersey's Yi Jianlian for the starting nod by 253,004 votes. 
"The All-Star game is always so meaningful to me because of the fans," said James, whose 24.3-point scoring average is the highest in All-Star game history for players with four or more appearances. 
Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers (2,805,397) was the West's top vote-getter, and will be joined at guard by New Orleans' Chris Paul (2,134.798). At center, Yao (2,532,958) ·will start for the sixth time, along with forwards Tim Duncan of San Antonio 
(2,578, 168}  and  Amare  
Stoudemire  of  Phoenix  
(1,460,429}.  

"When I first heard I was leading in votes, I was shocked, to be honest with you," Howard said. "I really didn't expect anything consid­ering you have guys like Kobe, LeBron and Dwyane." 
Howard entered Thursday averaging 20.2 points, 14.1 rebounds and 3.2 blocks for the Magic, who took the league's best overall record (33-8) into a home game against the reigning NBA champion Boston Celtics. 
But on the national stage, 
Howard still might be best­known for his exploits in last year's All-Star dunk contest in New Orleans, with his cape sailing on one jam and capping his night by using teammate Jameer Nelson as a prop in another slam. 
"That's his element there. He's an entertainer. He loves it," Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said. "I think sometimes people look at that kind of thing, where Dwight's out there having a good time, and they doubt the seriousness of a guy. That's not the case at all. He's very serious about win­ning and very serious about being a great player." 
Van Gundy likened Howard's All-Star antics to what the NBA has come to see from another giant jokester -Shaquille O'Neal. 


Friday, January 23, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
are a good defender who can play at the highest
Fencers 
level of professional fenc­continued from page 20 ing. Second, it shows that ---------=---=-----you can fight on the big 
Newcomers Meinhardt stage in front of all the and Courtney Hurley have cameras. This will bring already made a splash in calm to a young team that the world of fencing. can easily get nervous. Hurley won the Beijing will 2006 Cadet help in get­W o r I d ting used to Championship in "We never had pressure sit­Korea, while such a good result uations." 
Meinhardt. along N o t r e
like this year. '' 

with Kelley Dame will Hurley, repre­begin its sented the U.S. Janusz Bednarski team season in last summer's Saturday at
Irish coach 

Olympics. Meinhardt was the youngest fencer to compete for the 
U.S. in Beijing. 
"Experience in the Olympic games shows two things," Bednarski said. "First, it shows that you 
the St. John's Duals in Queens, N.Y., 
and Sunday's NYU Invitational in New York, N.Y. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
rank third nationally. In addition to the top dou­
osu 
bles teams, the Irish have continued from page 20 four players ranked in the 
--------=--==------top-65 in singles, and seven 
end of the year." in the regional top-20. 
Ohio State is ranked Frilling is ranked 39th in 
fourth in the preseason Big the national preseason sin­Ten rankings, and the gles rankings, and Tefft is Buckeyes national ranking 45th. Rounding out the is their highest since 2001. group for Notre Dame is Ohio State is led by junior junior Kali Krisik at 46th, Kirsten Flower, a transfer and sophomore Kristen from Georgia Tech, who is Rafael at 62nd. ranked 14th in the Midwest Louderback praised the region in the preseason ITA team's off-season training rankings. and was impressed with 
"It's going to be a very ·their work ethic. good first match for us," "I think it has been the Louderback said. "It should toughest conditioning we've be very competitive -ever had, and they've they're a team a lot like us, responded well," with a lot of depth and good Louderback said. "I think it doubles teams." has helped with our speed, 
Frilling and Tefft, who and we're covering the went 10-1 as a doubles court a lot better as a team in the fall season, result." begin the season ranked Northwestern led the pre­first nationally after season rankings, followed advancing to the finals of by California and UCLA. the ITA National Indoor Baylor and Stanford also Championships in October. were in the top-five. 
While Tefft played the Notre Dame opens at most matches and gained home February 6 against the highest ranking with Michigan. Frilling, the senior also played enough matches Contact Michael Bryan at with junior Kali Krisik to mbryan@nd.edu 
MLB 
Cubs find winning bidder 
Zell agreed to buy Tribune 

Associated Press 
Co. 

CHICAGO -The billionaire Cubs chairman Crane Ricketts family has been Kenney said last week that selected by Tribune Co. as the team hopes to have a the winning bidder for the new owner in place by open­hard-luck Chicago Cubs. ing day, April 6, but man.y 
The bid is worth about steps must happen before a $900 million, said Dennis sale can be completed. Culloton, a spokesman for "Obviously, these final Tom Ricketts. The sale would negotiations are key, but my include Wrigley Field and a client is, as the statement 25 perc.ent interest in a indicates, pretty optimistic," regional sports network. Culloton said. 
"My family and I are Cubs Ricketts must reach an fans," Tom Ricketts, the fam­agreement with Tribune Co., ily's point person in the Cubs which filed for bankruptcy purchase, said in a state­protection last month. While ment Thursday night. "We the Cubs and Wrigley Field share the goal of Cubs fans were not included in the everywhere to win a World bankruptcy filing, a sale Series and build the consis­likely will have to be tent champi-approved by onship tradi­the creditors' tion that the "We share the goal of committee fans deserve." and possibly a
Cubs fans everywhere to

The family bankruptcy
win a World Series and

also said in judge. the statement build the consistent In addition, that its look­a sale must
championship tradition 

ing forward to be approved
the fans deserve."

working with by baseball the Tribune owners. and Major Tom Ricketts M a j o r L e a g u e L e a g u e
Potential Cubs owner

Baseball to close the transaction promptly. 
Tribune Co. spokesman Gary Weitman did not imme­diately return a telephone call from The Associated Press after the Ricketts fami­ly issued the statement. He declined comment earlier Thursday. 
The selection of Tom Ricketts, a member of th~ founding family of TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., and chief executive of InCapital LLC, was first reported by the Chicago Sun­Times' Web site. 
Tribune Co. purchased the Cubs from Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. for $20.5 million in June 1981. It put the team on the market on opening day 2007, when real estate mogul Sam 
Baseball had 
not been informed by Tribune Co. of the winning bidder as of Thursday evening, a baseball official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because discussions between the team and MLB are not made public. 
Under the structure that had been discussed with baseball officials, Tribune Co. would keep a small per­centage of the team for tax reasons, probably around 5 percent, the baseball official said. 
Other finalists in the bid­ding included Hersch Klaff, who owns a Chicago com­mercial real estate firm, and a partnership between two New Yorke~s involved in pri­vate equity, Marc Utay of Clarion Capital and Leo Bindery Jr. of InterMedia Partners. 
Tom Ricketts grew up watching the Cubs on WGN, once lived in an apartment above a bar across the street from Wrigley Field, and met his wife in the bleachers at a Cubs game. His father, J. Joe Ricketts, founded Ameritrade and became a leading online stockbroker, but Tom never worked for that company. 
He was a market maker at the Chicago Board Options Exchange and finance execu­tive before starting invest­ment bank Incapital LLC. 
If the deal is approved, the Ricketts would acquire a team that hasn't won the World Series since 1908 and hasn't even made it to the Fall Classic since 1945. While the Cubs won the NL Central in each of the last two seasons, they were swept in the first round of the playoffs both times. 
Tribune Co. considered selling the team and the famous ballpark separately but rejected a plan from the Illinois Sports Facilities Authority to purchase the ivy-walled stadium. Kenney said recently the two would be sold together. 
Tribune Co., which owns the Los Angeles Times, Chicago Tribune, The (Baltimore) Sun, The Hartford Courant and other dailies, as well as 23 televi­sion stations and the Cubs, sought bankruptcy protec­tion last month. The media conglomerate was smothered by a drop-off in advertising and a crushing $13 billion in debt from the company's takeover a year ago by Zell. 
The company, which did not include the Cubs or Wrigley Field when it filed for bankruptcy, is selling off assets as it desperately seeks to raise cash to deal with the huge debt load. 

NHL 


Penguins star Crosby to miss All-Star Game with injury 
Conference roster. The game is He played in the Penguins' final standings. exact nature of mjuries. 
Associated Press 
Sunday at the Bell Centre. two games before the break, then Crosby's status for the Penguins' Crosby received a record 1.7 mil­
MONTREAL Pittsburgh Crosby, second in the NHL scoring was examined by doctors on Jan. 28 game against the Rangers in lion votes in fan balloting. A high Penguins captain Sidney Crosby will race with 60 points on 17 goals and Wednesday and Thursday. Pittsburgh won't be determined ankle sprain kept him out of last miss the All-Star game because of a 43 assists in 4 7 games, missed a With the Penguins out of playoff until the team resumes practice year's All-Star game. left knee injury. game Friday night because of the position in the Eastern Conference, Monday. St. Louis will be making his fifth 
Tampa Bay scoring leader Martin knee injury, and was struck twice on they don't want to take a chance the Crosby's injury is believed to be a straight All-Star game appearance. St. Louis replaced Crosby on the left arm by pucks during a 2-1 injury might worsen if Crosby plays bruised left knee, but NHL teams He has 17 goals and 29 a&<>i.<>ts this Thursday on the Eastern loss to Carolina on Tuesday night. in a game that doesn't count in the are not required to disclose the season. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 23, 2009 
Nova 
continued from page 20 
think we can go into a game thinking about how to stop her." 
Kurz. former Irish forward Rob Kurz' sister, averages 18 points and 7.8 rebounds per game. 
Kurz also made 3-of-7 3­pointers she attempted against George Washington, which poses a chal­lenge to Notre 


Dame's 3-point 
"We're doing some
defense. The 

different things, moving 
Irish defense sometimes lost some people around, shooters on 
and trying some
the perimeter 
different looks, and I
and allowed them open think it's going to be shots against 
pretty
St.· John's. 
effective for us. " 
McGraw didn't mention specifics, but Muffet McGraw she said the 
Irish coach 
team has worked on keeping track of the shooters. 
"We put a lot of emphasis on that," she said. "We're doing some different things, moving some people around, and trying some different looks, and I think it's going to be pretty effective for us." 
Junior guards Tia Grant and Maria Getty will test the Irish perimeter defense. Grant makes 41.5 percent of her threes and Getty hits 33.8 per­cent of hers. The team as a whole, however, is shooting only 29.5 percent from 3-point 
UVA 
continued from page 20 
what might have been is certainly not going to make anything positive happen." 
The young Irish squad has a tough schedule to open up the season. The Irish face top-20 teams in all but one of their first six matches. 
Notre Dame travels first to Virginia· to 

range. . . 
The fr~shman have received more playing time off the bench this season because the Irish lost both forward Devereaux Peters and guard Brittany Mallory to anterior cruciate lig­ament (ACL) tears, and McGraw said she's happy with their play. They are making positive con­tributions, she said, and also receiving good experience for 
· the future. "Not only are they learning a 
lot, they're getting better every game," she said. 
Freshmen Erica Solomon .and Natalie Novosel both average more than seven points per game. 
McGraw said she's also pleased with the play of s·ophomorc forward Becca 
Bruszewski, especially with her versatility. 
"I think that teams are wor­ried about [guard Lindsay] Schrader, [guard] Ashley Barlow and [guard] Melissa Lechlitner, and she's the one that they forget about," McGraw said. "I've just been really happy with the way she's been able to just play her game. She takes what comes her way." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Bayliss said. "He really put a lo.t of pressure on Jensen Turner. Not many guys .can match his ability from the back of the court. On top of that he passed well, leaving Turner feeling like he had to hang back with Keeton. In the second set Sam loosened up a bit and was able to turn up the heat for an easier time." 
After meeting William and 
Mary the 
Irish will 
take on No. 
take on 5 Virginia on
"We lost to William and 
William and Sunday.
Mary a year ago. It

Mary -I a Virginia team they clearly was not one of was ranked 
have already our best matches." No. 1 for the 
seen this sea­majority of son when the last year,
Bobby Bayliss 

Irish traveled and despite to the William Irish coach losing two 
and Mary Invitational in November. 
"We lost to William and Mary a year ago," Bayliss said. "It clearly was not one of our best matches. We played there in November at their tournament, so our guys are familiar with their courts. Brett (Helgeson) might have an edge at No. 1 singles, but he lost last year so I think He will be pre­pared. We certainly can't look past them because of last year's match." 
Freshman Sam Keeton was able to pull out a key singles win in the loss to Pepperdine at No. 5 singles. The Kansas City native missed the entire fall season with a broken right wrist, which proved to be a blessing in disguise. 
"Sam played up pretty close to the baseline," seniors to 

graduation, 
Bayliss noted they boast another strong team this season. 
Senior Dominic Inglot will prove to be a force for the Cavaliers again this season. Inglot was ranked as high as No. 3 in the nation last sea­son. 
"Sophomores Michael Shabaz and Sanam Sing hit as clean a ball as you will see anywhere," Bayliss said. "Throw in Houston Barrick and you have a core nucleus that are hard to contend with." 
The Irish will square off against William and Mary at 10 a.m. on Saturday, with the Virginia match beginning at noon on Sunday. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Where the girls are. 
JUST ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Wonder where ND girls are living next year? 
Brand new Irish Row Apartments and Irish Crossings Townhomes a1e leasing fast for both the 2009 2010 and ?.010-2011 school yf.'ars. 
Interestingly, future residents are 80% girls and 20% guys so far-that's four girls to every one guy. 
What brings the girls? 
Maybe it's the cool features that come with !iving at Irish Row or Irish Crossings, like: 
• 
Furnished residences ·• lndudinq a 42" flat p<:mel HDTV · in every living room 

• 
Private, full bath in each bf'droom • Laundry room with washer & dryer in each unit Up to 4 bedrooms per unit Fitness center and lounge, Including tanninq 

• 
FREE Internet &200 + pj stations • Brand new construction 



• Community social events 
Close to groceries, restaurants, entertainment and carnpus 
Come see what's bringing in all the girls. 

•:'.'·::·: But, better hurry before all the guys catch on. 
lrlsh 
Row 
* 

~Irish 
ROW 

tit{bBf"-'.'i 
ft{f!l<!utallt lrlshRowApartments.com 1 lrlshCrossings.com• kariem@irishrClwapartmenls.com 1 574.277.6666 ·Saies model ~~ the corner of Burdette &Vaness Street<; 

-
Friday, January 23, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

DAVID CAVADINI 

PEANUTS 
"ANP AC.ROSS rHE QUAP YOU CAN SEE rHE HES81./RGH /.18RARY, PEP/CAr£() ro OUR 15rH P.R£5/PENr, WHERE MANY A {)()MER HAY£ BEEN IMMO.RrAt.IZEP 8Y COMPUT"ING rHE HES81./RGH CHAIJ.ENGE ANP MO.Rr/F/EP 8Y rHE 81./N .RUN." 
JUMBLE 
JJWJMrutlE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RIDUL 
j
I I r I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
~;~ef~l 
rJ 
I TARROM± 
I I r J 
www.jumble.com 
I REBAWE I
( I J I I
L----L:llo......o~.....LL---L.--'-----1 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

CAN BE: Al-ONE: WHE:N l-OCKE:O UP. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: A (lll)oR(ll) 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  ONION  VIGIL  (Answers tomorrow) PEOPLE GROTTO  
Answer:  When his dog had puppies, the street cleaner  
said it was  -"LITTERING"  


CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Org. for the 

1 Bay State sch. humane treatment of pets 
6 Juicy fruits 35 Bobby of the 
11 Target of many a N.H.L.
boxing blow 36 Alcoholics 

14 Sophomore's Anonymous has grade 12 of them 15 Old Testament 39 Once around aprophet track16 "It's no !" 
40 Catnip and 17 Good sign on a fennel 

-highway 43 Safe box opener
19 Reverse of NNW 44 White 20 Dollar or Budget (termites)competitor 46 Cousin of a21 Like the season Keogh, briefly before Easter 47 Arizona's 23 Floated gently in Petrified Forestthe air dates from this 
26 7 on a periodgrandfather 50 Optimistic 
clock 53 Sups

28 Prefix with potent 
54"_1uck?" 
_55 Heavy hammer 29 Use a rasp on 

56 Bear witness in a margin sa consequently 32 Expected s-s·~r. holy woman 
30 Comment on, as 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 Good sign on a candy box 
66 Dark time, in poetry 

67 Vice President Burr 
68 Weights abroad, informally 
69 Scores in the end zone, for short 
70 Velocity 
71 Appears 

Down 1 Westem tribe 2 "_in Black," 
Will Smith film 
3 & 
4 Layers 5 Acted rudely while in a line, maybe 6 Academics' 

degrees 7 High's opposite 8 Grp. that 
entertains the troops 9 Magician in Arthurian legend 1 0 Hot Japanese drink 11 Good sign on a ·car trunk 12 Concurrence 13 Ineffectual one, slangily 18 Helpers 
22 Dame 
24 Be next to 

25 Good sign on a lawn 
motel 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Robert Dillman 
27 Not well-put 45 Dish often 57 Places to be 31 "That feels served with 10­
pampered gooood!" Down 58 Manage, as a 34 "Above the bar
47 Group of cups 
fruited " and saucers 61 Anger 
37 Kind of porridge 48 Squealed (on) 62 Actress Caldwell 38 The "S" in CBS: 63 de France 
Abbr. 49 Despotic ruler 41 Boast 64 Suffix with 
51 Sets (down) official
42 Fill the stomach 52 Nickname for of Elizabeth 65 Twisty curve 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-?,ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
FRAN TOLAN 
fRIDAYS WITH FRAN 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) Connecticut rhymes with zit. Sort of. 
Pisces (Feb. 19-Marcb 20) Buy a man a fish, feed him for a day. Buy a man a bottle of Carlo Rossi, teach him how life is supposed to be. 
Aries (March 21-Apr. 19) We need more trombon­ers in this orchestra. 
Taurus (Apr. 20-May 20) Sorry about your warts in that unpleasant area. Probably should have told you about that, huh? 
Gemini (May 21-June 20) Dog the Bounty Hunter is no match for Cat the Fugitive Chaser. 
Cancer (June 21-July 22) '"Blossom" sucked and "Step by Step" sucked. Why can't you get that ·straight? 
Leo (July 23-Aug. 22) Speaking of straight, Elton John's here for the game this weekend. 
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Dick Cheney defines the freerider problem. 
Libra (Sept. 23-0ct. 22) Quack attack is back, Jack. 
Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) Romulus and Remus: Now, those are names. 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) Kiefer Sutherland's first name is very distracting if you say it fast a few times. 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Why are toddlers called toddlers if nobody ever uses the verb toddle? I propose a more accurate term, like youngsters-who­run-into-walls-and-look-like-drunken-idiots. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City--~----------State _______ Zip___________ 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, January 23, 2009 
page 20 
FENCING 
J[rish open up dual-match season with two in New York 
3y MICHAEL BLASCO 
~;porrs Writer 
After outstanding individual showings at the North American Cup last week, the Irish squad opens its dual­match season with matches against St. John's and New York University this weekend. The competitions mark the beginning of a long campaign that Irish coach Janusz Bednarski hopes will end in the program's eighth national 
championship. Notre Dame finished second to Ohio State last year. 
"We have a very strong team," Bednarski said. "Maybe not the strongest in the nation, but we can fight anybody. They are position­ing themselves well for the national team, but we are ready to compete now with the best collegiate teams in the nation." 
In this season's fourth and final portion of the North American Cup, five Irish 
fencers finished in the top­five of their category, three taking home medalist honors. Freshman Courtney Hurley took top honors in women's epee, while classmate Gerek Meinhardt earned first in men's foil. Sophomore Avery Zuck earned the final Notre Dame gold in men's sabre. 
"We never had such a good result like this year," Bednarski said. "We won a lot of medals -that's a posi­tive of this competition. I believe that it was one of the best starts in national tryouts for [Notre Dame]." 
The Irish, who return 12 All-Americans, feature prodi­gious talent in both the women's and men's squad. All-Americans junior Kelley Hurley, Courtney's older sis­ter, and. sophomore Sarah Borrmann won NCAA Championships last year in epee and sabre, respectively. Sophomore epeeist Ewa Nelip, senior foil Adrienne Nott, sophomore foil Hayley Reese, and junior sabre Eileen Hassett are all coming off All-American seasons, as well. 
The men's team also returns six All-Americans. Senior epeeist Karol Kostka, senior foil Mark Kubik, his younger brother, sophomore foils Steve Kubik, sophomore foil Zach Schirtz, senior sabre Bill Thanhouser, and sophomore sabre Barron Nydam have all earned the distinction. 
see FENCERS/ page 17 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Squad hopes to use extra rest to bounce back against 'Nova 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's close shave against St. John's on Jan. 17 presented the team with plenty of room for improvement: in the press, on defense, rebounding, !;coring in the paint. But taking !;orne time to rest, coach Muffet McGraw said, benefited the team most. 
"We took a couple days off," McGraw said. "I think that probably helped us more. than anything." 
The No. 13 Irish had a full week between the St. John's :~arne and their next game, on .he road at Villanova tomorrow. \1.cGraw said after the St. .John's game that she wanted to 1se the week to focus on funda­nental, rather than game-spe­dfic, skills. 
"We've worked a lot on defense," she said. "We've 
.~Cat napping 
worked on some dHferent things just trying to get ready for the second part of the Big East season." 
The Fighting Irish are 15-2 and 4-1 in conference play, with their only loss coming on the road to Marquette on Jan. 13. Villanova is 10-8, 2-2 in confer­ence play, but the Wildcats have lost to both ranked teams they faced-No. 6 Baylor on Nov. 28 and No. 23 Rutgers on Jan. 14. 
Villanova displayed two dif­ferent styles in its 67-60 loss to George Washington Wednesday. The Wildcats scored only 13 points in the first half and couldn't quite muster a come­back despite out-scoring GW 4 7-45 in the second half. Senior forward Laura Kurz led the team with 29 points; in fact, she's led the team in scoring in all but six games this season. How to stop her? 
"I don't think you do," McGraw said. "They take advantage of the mismatches. She's able to drive the hall, shoot the ball, pass the ball, she's just a great player. I don't 
see NOVNpage 18 

-===================================================================================== 
!MEN'S TENNIS 
Squad travels south for a pair of matches 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
After dropping their spring opener to Pepperdine last ::;riday, the No. 30 Irish will now head to Virginia to take 
•m William and Mary and No. 
5 Virginia. "I think our guys are han­dling the loss to Pepperdine as well as can be expected," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We could not have played any l]arder and we certainly left everything out on the court. We are going to play a ton of matches just like this and dwelling on 
see UVA/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
ND opens season vs. OSU 
Defending Big East champs led by top duo of Tefft, Frilling 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
The No. 17 Irish will begin their spring season this weekend, opening at No. 32 Ohio State. Notre Dame, led by the No. 1 ranked doubles team of senior Kelcy Tefft and freshman Kristy Frilling, is looking to defend its Big East title and return to the NCAA Tournament. 
The Irish will square off in Columbus following a strong 2007-08 campaign that fea­tured a Big East Championship and ended in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. Notre Dame's final record was 22­9. 
"I would say this is the most talented team I've coached here," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "We have a lot of firepower, some great doubles teams, and really want to set ourselves up to make a good run at the 
see OSU/page 17 

.. 













