
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 91 WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 18,2009 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND contributes to development off campus 
Three projects at University's 'front door' aim to create community, 'college-town'feel in surrounding neighborhoods 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Writer 
Editor's note: This is the first installment of a three­part series examining the development projects occur­ring near· Notre Dame's cam­pus. 
Notre Dame's "front door" into South Bend has long been dismissed as a deterio­rating neighborhood with the absence of a college-town feel, but the University has collaborated with the city on several projects they hope will bring about change, according to Greg Hakanen, director of asset management and real f}State development. 
The University is currently investing significant funds in three specific projects to develop the neighborhood directly south of campus: The Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Project, the Eddy Street Commons and Innovation Park. 
llakanen said the University has several moti­vations for developing the neighborhoods surrounding campus. 
"In part, it affects the per­ception of the University and in part, it's a safety issue," 
he said. "At the neighbor­hood's low point, there were drugs and crime, but that's largely past." 
These efforts will help cre­ate a vibrant community sur­rounding campus, which will · benefit both students and faculty as well as community../ members, Hakanen said. 
The three projects involve improving housing and com­mercial ventures in the neighborhood south of cam­pus and expanding research opportunities for students and faculty. 
Regarding the 
see PROJECTS/page 6 


Photo courtesy of Innovation Park This digitalized image shows what the interior of Innovation Park will look like upon the project's completion. 

Hesburgh 
discusses~ 
role oflaity with group 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
Last night, a group of 20 students joined University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh in his office in the library named 
after him 


to hear him talk about his life and to discuss his v i e w s about the laity's changing 

Hesburgh role in the Church. 
The talk was organized by the Orestes Brownson Council, a club that started as a reading group, but has emerged into a discussion society that focuses on dis­cussing documents that deal with Catholicism and Ameriean Politics. 
Jlesburgh began his talk by telling the group about his time at Notre Dame as a seminarian in thf~ 1930s. 
"The Seminary was very different in those days," he said. "\Ne wen• only allowPd to talk for one hour after lunch and one hour after supper. For a guy who was used to talking all the time, that was rather tough." 
Despite this, Ilesburgh said that the lack of commu­nication helped him spiritt,~­
see HESBURGH/page 4 




Demonstrators support labor unions 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Editor 
Chanting "union welcome" and holding signs with mes­sages saying, "the Pope loves unions, shouldn't you?" over 30 supporters gathered for a demonstration and march Tuesday in support of University employe~s· right to unionize. 
The Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) organized the event, which began at the steps of Main Building and marched to the Mason Services Center, where Building Services employees check in and out daily. 
CLAP member Denise 

Pineda, a senior, said she hopes the event helped peo­ple become aware of work­ers' problems should they try to unionize and support their choice of unionization. 
"Personally, I want the workers to know they're appreciated, and know they have support," she said. 
"If a unio·n is what they want, let them know it's their choice," she said. 
Senior Michael Angulo, an event organizer and member of CLAP, said that the demonstration and march were a result of the group's continued discussions with employees and their fears of 
see CLAP/page 4 
SMCelects. 
Hoffman~ 


Griffin 
ByLIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editory 
Saint Mary's junior Jenny lloffman and sophomore Meg Griffin were elected the College's next student body presidPnt and vice presidf'nt Monday after run­ning an unopposed campaign. 
Hoffman is currently the Board of Governance (BOG) executive secretary and Griflin is the sophomore class presi­dent. 
Juniors Mallory Price and Katie Lewis were also a part of the race, but dropped out due to personal reasons early Thursday 
see HOFFMAN/page 6 



New language center opens 
Lounge offers place for conversation, study with group focus 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Upon entering the new Center for the Study of Languages and Cultures (CSLC), it is common to hear student.'> holding conversa­tions in at least three different fon~ign languages. 
The~ CSLC, located on the thir(.l lloor of DeBartolo Hall, opened last month. The center promoh~s fondgn language study though an emphasis on community and interaction. said Lance A<ikildson, the direc­tor of the CSI.C. 
"We're still in a stage of development," he said. "We're here to develop a community of foreign language learners." 
The CSLC's opening marked 
see CENTER/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Senior parents weekend? 
So I'm a senior. That much I know for certain. I can see all of the typical signs: I'm writing a thesis, I'm hitting up all those lit­tle cafes I swore for three years that I'd visit, and I'm even 
Analise Lipari 

starting to plan for­gasp!-the 
Scene Editor 

future. 
I'm also bringing my mom to Junior Parents Weekend. 
Yep, you read that correctly. By this time on Friday, my super awe­some mom and I will be rocking JPW ... one year late. 
Why? Well, one year ago, I was 4000 miles from life under the Dome. I was spending my semester abroad in London, saying "pah­don" instead of "sorry" as I bumped into passers-by in Tube stations. Museums, theaters, pubs -I was so busy being a Londoner, I didn't really dwell on most events going on in South Bend. 
I'll admit, though, that when I saw my friends' pictures from JPW last February, I had a funny mix­ture of feelings. On the one hand, I was happy for them and their par­ents; few things make me smile like seeing pictures of people try­ing to swing dance with their moms and dads. 
But unlike the parents and kids in my friends' smiling pictures, my mom and dad were back in New Hampshire, and I was in my flat, subsisting on couscous and Jaffa Cakes. 
Looking back, it was weird to not attend JPW. I was a junior; I'd helped set up past JPW luncheons hosted by my dorm; and-clutch criterion -I had parents. But it came and went with little fanfare last year, and I soon forgot about this parent-college kid fiesta. 
Until last semester, when my mom and I decided she would come visit for JPW. I was and am psyched that she'll be coming to visit-like any kid who's moved 900 miles from home, I miss my mommy. Plus, one of my best sen­ior friends will be attending, as will a slew of juniors that I know. I won't be alone, I'll be enjoying fancy food and spending some quality time with my madre. 
But I can't help thinking of that line from the song "I Wish I Could Go Back to College" from the musical Avenue Q. In that song, Princeton, Kate Monster and Nicky are singing about going back to college, when "life was so simple." But in the end, Nicky reflects and says, ''I'd sit on the quad/ And think, 'Oh, my God'/ These kids are so much younger than me!" 
Okay, they're not that much younger. Twelve months tops. It's only a year removed, right? I won't feel old? Or like I'm cheat­ing the system, going back in time? 
So I'm a senior, pretending to be a junior for three days. That much l know for certain. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at a lipari@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journaiism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU DO WHEN NO ONE IS WATCHING? 







Kris Kast George Pinchock Teresa McGeeney Dan Lewis Monica Garcia-Blizzard 
sophomore sophomore junior sophomore senwr Carroll Keenan Lyons Keenan McGlinn 
·7 would do the "/ talk to myself "I listen to ..1have full ..1 eat obscene same as Gyges. •• with an accent Taylor Swift.·· conversations amounts of 
,,

and sometimes with my alter chocolate. jump up and ego, Sasha down. •• Fierce . •• 
IN BRIEF 

"How the Health Are You?" a health fair open to .students, will take place today from 4 to 5 
p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. The event is free and attendees have the chance. to win raffle prizes, including a free roundtrip ticket to anywhere in the United States. 
The Saint Mary's senior class is hosting "Financial Tips for Recent College Graduates," a lecture by Professor Susan Vance tonight at 6:30 p.m. in 335 Spes Unica Hall. 
Men Against Violence will present "That's What He Said?: Images of Modern Masculinity," a lecture relating the TV show "The Office" and the roles ofmen and women on tonight at 8 p.m. in Carey Auditorium in Hesburgh Uhrary. 
Seniors John Siegel, Sam Banina, and Ryan McCune deejay their radio 
Panelists, including students, 
show, which airs on WVFI. 

professors and members of the South Bend community, will debate President Obama's impact on diversity tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center lounge. 
OFFBEAT 

The Class of 2012 presents pierced cats about piercing cats or $400,000. 
Woman charged selling state law says nothing was set Tuesday at 
"Frosh Four Square" Thursday WILKES-BARRE, Pa.-A docking their tails. He picked up the woman 
from 6 to 9 p.m. in Stepan Pennsylvania dog groomer At a preliminary hearing Wednesday night in 
Center. The event is free to par­has been ordered to stand Tuesday, Wilkes-Barre Detroit after she told him 
ticipate, and $5 for a T-shirt. trial on animal cruelty District Judge Paul Hadzick she had nowhere to stay, charges for selling "gothic called it a gray area that and brought her to his 
David Walker, the president kittens" with ear, neck and needs to be decided by a home in Toledo, about 55 
and CEO of the Peter G. tail piercings. trial judge or jury. miles away, police said. 
Peterson Foundation, will speak Holly Crawford's home The woman told police 
Friday from 10:40 a.m. to 12:10 outside Wilkes-Barre was Man holds woman cap­that after she fell asleep 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium in raided Dec. 17 after the tive, reads her the Bible Brisport handcuffed her 
the Mendoza College of-Business. county Society for the TOLEDO, Ohio -A man wrists and ankles, gagged 
The event is part of the Ten Prevention of Cruelty to held a woman captive in her, undressed her and 
Years Hence lecture series. It is Animals got a tip. handcuffs and an adult put her in an adult diaper, 
free and open to the public. A prosecutor says diaper for three days then read Bible passages, Crawford inflicted pain on while he read Bible pas­said police Capt. Ray 
To submit information to be 

the cats, which were listed sages to her, police said. Carroll. · 
included in this section of The 
for sale for hundreds of Troy Brisport, 34, was 

Observer, e-mail detailed infor­dollars on the Internet. charged with kidnapping Information compiled 
mation about an event to Crawford's attorney says and felonious assault. Bail from the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd. edu. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
IJ.I 
X 

!;;: 
1.1.1 
~ 
.... 
<
CJ 



19 15 

HIGH LOW 
0 
.... HIGH 35 HIGH 16 LOW 16 LOW 13 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 
27 
LOW 
16 


HIGH LOW 
•.. . . • J 
,­
-•· t r' 1. 

Wednesday, February 18, 2009 page 3 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members review finances for spring semester 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Members of the Council of Representatives (COR) reviewed the Financial Management Board's (FMB) spring realloca­tion at their meeting on Tuesday evening. 
Student Union Treasurer Kadeja Gaines said that $23,307.30 was reallocated in the process. 
Before in the initial allocation process, each group is awarded 
· a certain amount of money to use throughout the school year, she said. Every spring, each campus group takes an estimate of the amount of money they will need to finish out their planned activ­ities for the· school year. If they are in need, then the various groups request money during the reallocation process. Other groups, who may have requested more money in the initial allocation process than needed, will give their money back, Gaines said. -This year, the Judicial.Council gave back $1 ,200 of their initial allocation. About $15,000 went to vari­ous clubs and organizations, 
while the rest of the money went to other student groups who requested the additional funding. 
"After reviewing each group's expenses, we approved the requests on the basis that all had spent their initial alloca­tions wisely and effectively," Gaines said. 
Council members also dis­cussed the effectiveness and accessibility of the College Readership Program. 
Student body president Bob Reish wanted feedback from the Council to see whether or not the College Readership distribu­tion locations were in areas easily accessible to the under­graduate student population. 
The College Readership Program has six distribution centers, which are located in the Mendoza College (jf Business, North Dining Hall, South Dining Hall, the Hesburgh Library, LaFortune Student Center, outside the Joyce Center. 
COR members suggested look­ing into the possibility of adding a distribution center in DeBartolo Hall, since there is a large volume of students with class in the building on a daily 

Peanut recall affects few foods on campus 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
In the past few months, a rash of product recalls, like that of peanut butter and other peanut products from the Peanut Corporation of America, has had Americans on edge. 
According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Web site, the Georgia-based compa­ny went under investigation Dec. 3, 2008; the initial recall of its products began Jan. 10. 
This has brought about many concerns for Notre Dame's Food Distribution Services, Senior Associate Director Jim Yarbrough said. 
"We've had lots of concerned callers," he said. 
Yarbrough said Notre Dame students shouldn't be con­cerned about contaminated peanut butter. The supplier of Notre Dame Food Service's 
peanut butter  was  not  the  
Peanut  Corporation  of  
America.  

The recall was ordered after the products were discovered to potentially be contaminated with Salmonella. 
Several deaths, in many dif­ferent states, have been linked to the outbreak, according to the FDA. 
Notre Dame was notified of the recall, though, according to Yarbrough. 
"Once recalls start, the com­pany is obligated to tell its con­sumers," he said. 
The state health department and the county health depart­ment also alert all school and college campuses, according to Yarbrough. 
Yarbrough said the chopped peanuts used for toppings on the iee cream bars in the din­ing halls wen~ on the reeall list. 
N.otre Dame's supplier, who received the peanuts from Peanut Corporation of America, notified Notre Dame after they heard of the recall, said Yarbrough. The peanuts were pulled right away, and sent back: No incidents were reported on campus involving contaminated peanuts. 
Other items recalled all over campus at many of the cafes and convenience areas were snack bars, like granola bars, which contained peanuts from the contaminated plant, according to Yarbrough. 
These were pulled promptly after recall orders were issued. 
One other recall the dining halls have been dealing with lately is recalled apple slices, according to Yarbrough. One of the most popular foods in the dining halls, these slices came from a particular company, and were recalled twice due to contamination. Notre Dame has decided to switch suppliers because of this, according to Yarbrough. 
"We've gone to a new compa­ny," said Yarbrough. 
Keeping up with all of the recalls that come out nearly every day is quite a task, according to Yarbrough. They've dedicated a Web site to posting all of the recalls so they ar~ easily accessible, according_ to Yarbrough. 
"We hit it first thing in the morning, to take care of things like this," he said. 
The FDA has also set up a Web site listing all of the affected products. The list ean be found at www.fda.gov, under the link "Search Recalled Peanut Products." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
basis. 
Sophomore class president Cynthia Weber asked if there is a way to see how many of the papers are being used on a daily basis in order to finance the program more efficiently. 
While most of the papers are being read, Reish said that those that have been left untouched are taken off the bill. 
"Say for example we ordered 50 .copies of the Chicago Tribune and only 40 of the papers were used, the extra 10 would be taken off the bill," said Reish. 
While COR members dis­cussed the idea of pussibly hav­ing a place in the dining halls where us~d papers could be kept for others to read, the Council decided that some peo­ple would rather have their own newspaper than read one that had been previously used. 
The three papers included in the College Readership Program are The New York Times, USA Today, and The Chicago· Tribune. 
"A survey was taken my freshman year to determine what papers would work best in the Program," Reish .said. "These papers were the best to fit both national and local news, as well as~ what students were most interested in." 

In Other COR News: 
uMembers voted to unani­mously approve Nick Danna as the new Student Union Treasurer. Danna, a sophomore from Fisher Hall, will take office April 1. 
Fair promotes student health 
New program combines relaxation, physical exercise and fun 
By LAUREN KNAUF News Writer 
Students interested in testing their skills at Dance Dance Revolution, enjoying a free chair massage, or learning 
more about techniques to improve their health and well­ness can find opportunities to do all three ­and more-at Notre Dame's first Health and Wellness Fair taking place today. 
Josephine Dickinson, staff psychologist at 
the University Counseling Center and member of the Fair's planning committee, brought the idea for a collabo­rative Health and Wellness Fair to Notre Dame from Ohio State, where she formerly worked in the counseling_ cen­ter. 
The purpose of the Fair is "to create a campus-wide event that all students would be invited to participate in," Dickinson said, ..and one that would involve many different departments on campus to incorporate all aspects of well­ness." 
The conference, taking place today from 4 to 7 p.m. at Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center, will consist of a variety of tables and booths that repre­sent different areas of health and wellness, and will include interactive games and assess­ments. 
The purpose of the activities, Dickinson said, is to raise awareness about health and wellness, as well as the resources available on campus to help students maintain or improve their health. 


University Health Services, the University Counseling Center, RecSports, Food Services and the Notre Dame Security Police are among the 
"We want students to take away from it an awareness that they need to focus on all aspects oftheir health and safety.·· 
Josephine Dickinson staff psychologist 
groups on cam­pus that will be participating in the Fair to ensure that all aspects of stu­dent health are covered, Dickinson said. 
Students who participate will be able to enjoy a free chair massage from one of the two massage thera­
pists from Preventive Medic_ine, a company based in South Bend attending. 
In addition to relaxation, there will also be opportunities for students to test their danc­ing skills. 
"Physical Education and 
uStudent body vice president Grant Schmidt brought up the issue of the poor internet con­nection in the Coleman-Morse Center. Members of the Council voiced their concern over this issue, as well as the lack of service in the dining halls. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
relaxation activities, some of which can be found in the Inner Hesources Room at the University Counseling Center. 
As incentive to participate in all of the activities the Health Fair offers, raffle tickets will be distributed at each booth for completing an activity or assessment. 
"The more activities and assessments you do, the more raffle tickets you'll get, and the more chances you'll have to win the prizes," Dickinson said. "We aimed for prizes that would be pertinent to students, and because this is right around the time of Spring Break, our big ticket item is one airline ticket to anywhere in the U.S." 
Dickinson named the other items that students can win in the raffle, including gift bas­kets, gift cards to Starbucks and iTunes, and prizes intend­ed to promote wellness, such as a free personal training package. 
Ultimately, 
however, 
Dickinson 

Wellness is "We wanted to emphasized 
bringing Dance that the Health
provide a mix offun
D a n c e and Wellness 
Revolution to activities and Fair is about promote physical relaxation.,, more than activity," winning 
Dickinson said. prizes.
Josephine Dickinson 
"We wanted to "We want provide a mix of staff psychologist students to 
fun activities and relaxation, as well as assess­ments and serious informa­tion." 
The University Counseling Center will have a booth set up where students can complete assessments for problems like depression, anxiety and eating disorders. A second table will give students a ehance to try some of the happiness and 
take away 
from it an 

awareness that they need to focus on all aspects of their health and safety," she said. "And we want them to have fun learn­ing more about the different services on campus and what they can offer them." 
Contact Laruen Knaufat lknauf@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
SMC named to service honor roll 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) at Saint Mary's College was placed on the President's Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll for the third year in a row by the Corporation for National and Community Service. 
Carrie Call, director of OCSE, is proud of the College's accom­plishments. 
"I consider it a great honor that SMC made the roll and I think it speaks to the 'heart of service' among our students," Call said. 
The schools who receive the honor are chosen based on series of factors, including scope and innovation of service projects, percentage of student participation in service activi­ties, incentives for service, and the extent to which the school offers academic service-learn­ing courses according to a press release from earlier this month. 
"We salute Saint Mary's College for inaking community service a campus priority, and thank the millions of college students who are helping to renew America through service to others," Stephen Goldsmith, vice chair of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service, said in the same press release. 
OCSE began as the Spes Unica Volunteer Resource Office (SURV) until 2004 when the name was changed, Call said. A group of students originally started SURV in 1990 to have a place for students to find serv­ice opportunities on campus. Along with the new name, OCSE also expanded the programs and staff allotted to the previ­ous office, Call said. 
The programs OCSE provides focus on education and health care in order to reflect the mis­sion of the College. 
"Our service opportunities are varied and extensive. We try to mirror the commitments of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, so our primary positions are with edu­cation and health care and we try to serve those on the mar­gins of society," Call said. 
The Co1lege Academy of Tutoring (CAT) and Rebuilding Together are only two of the service opportunities available, and both have high rates of stu­dent volunteers. 
"In our College Academy of Tutoring for example, it's not unusual to reach a l 0 percent participation rate within a year 
topic that his professors found incredibly unusual.

Hesburgh 
"I wanted to do my thesis continued from page 1 on the theology of the laity in the Church," Hesburgh said. ally. "But the three professors 
"It was actually a good that I presented my topic to experience; you really got to said that the laity was not a think about the serious sub­presence of the ject." Holy Spirit in "I told them your life," he that if they said. though that 99 
Hesburgh "/ told them that if percent of the remained at they thought that 99 Church in the the Seminary world was not
percent ofthe Church 

at Notre Dame 'serious' then
in the world was not

until the late they needed to 1930s when he 'serious, then they take another received I o k ,
·needed to take o 

instruction to Hesburgh said.
another look.,,

continue his Hesburgh's studies at the thesis was one Gregorian Fr. Theodore Hesburgh of the first doc­University in uments ever
University President 

R o m e written on the
Emeritus

llesburgh remained in Rome until May of 1940. 
"World War II was really heating up," he recalled of his time there. "I was supposed to be in Rome completing my schooling for eight years. But in 1940, right before the Nazis took Paris, a man from the American Consulate showed up in my lecture hall, right in the middle of class." 
llesburgh said he remem­bers the official telling all the Americans in the class that the Nazis would have control of France soon, and that all the American semi­narians would have to leave Home in a week. 
"They told us that the last boat would be leaving that coming Saturday," llesburgh said. "It put a lot of pressure on us academically, because we had to finish our studies quickly, but it was also excit­ing." 
After returning to the United States, llesburgh resumed his studies at the Catholic University in Washington D.C. In 1944, when it was time for him to write his thesis for his doc­torate, Hesburgh presented a 
laity's role in the Church. 
"At that time, there was very little theologi­
cal back-· ground on the laity, so I was really break­ing new 
-this is about 150-plus stu­
dents," Call said. 
Currently, OCSE is working on 
starting a Habitat for Humanity 
club on campus, Call said. Also, 
they recently began a walk to 
raise awareness of and money 
for the Leukemia and 
Lymphoma Society called "Light 
the Night." 
Students who want to join in 
any of these activities, or one of 
the many others offered by 
OCSE can go to the office locat­
ed in room 220 of the Student 
Center. 
Call is pleased with the recog­
nition the College ·has already 
received, and wants to continue 
improving the programs and 
services provided. 
"This recognition affirms the spirit of service that is preva­lent throughout the College. In the past four years, community service opportunities have flourished here with the advent of additional and enhanced pro­gramming," Call said. . "Receiving the news llbout the award always thrills me because it reminds me of how far we've come. Yet, I am also reminded of how much more needs to be done to help a hurt­
ing world." 
Conta<:t Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
the laity's participation in these two sacraments, this gives them a special place in the Church." 
When Hesburgh finished the writing of his thesis, he published it as a book under the title of "Theology of Catholic Action." 
Hesburgh said although there was a limited printing of the book, all the books were sold within a matter of weeks. 
"A few weeks after I pub­lished the book, I got a call from the Pope's delegate," Hesburgh said. "He asked me about the book and said that a friend in Rome wanted a few copies." 
Hesburgh said he sent over two copies, and never heard about the book again, or even who received the copies. 
"Thirty-five years later, Vatican II puts out their statement on the laity," Hesburgh said. "When I received the offici~tl docu~ 
ment from 
Rome, a lot of 
it was right 
out of my 
thesis." 
ground," he "Ifyou're the laity, be Heshurgh 
said. emphasized
good laity. You're 99
Hesburgh how the role 
said that until percent ofthe Church so of the laity his thesis. the don't just sit there. , has changed only thing that dramatically had really since Vatican
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh
been written Il. on the laity Univeristy President "Today, the was about Emeritus laity is much 
Catholic Action, which the Vatican had defined as "the participa­tion of laity in the hierarchy apostolate." 
"I thought this was a rather poor definition," Ilesburgh said. "I believed that the laity had their own apostolate because they par­ticipate in Baptism and Confirmation, two of the three sacraments that leave an indelible mark on our souls. 
"The point I was trying to make was that because of more signifi­cant in the Church," he said. "It is terribly 
important that the laity know they have a special place as they emerge more and Inore." 
Hesburgh finished with an instruction to all the lay peo­ple of the Church. 
"If you're laity, be good laity," he said. "You're 99 percent of the Church so don't just sit there." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hc<:-nd.edu 
income, according to Domingo.

CLAP 
She called the program continued from page 1 "one of the best things about 
Notre Dame." potential firings or other "Except, a large number of actions if they chose to pur­Notre Dame employees qual­sue unionization. ify for that program," she 
"Every year we've gone to said. "A bit of a contradic­workers and see what their tion there." concerns are," he said. Domingo, who has been Consistently, they are "feel­active in CLAP since its for­ing like no one is listening to mation, later said that she them." has seen attempts at union­
In the months leading up ization stamped out before, to. the demon-including inci­stration dents in the 
Tuesday, "Every year we've 1970s. 
CLAP mem­Domingo said 
gone to workers and
bers gathered she would ask around 500 see what their administrators 
,,

signatures on concerns are. to publicly union support acknowledge cards. The they cannot 
Michael Angulo
signers "rec­stop unions ognize and CLAP member from forming. 
support the right of all employees of the University of Notre Dame to be repre­sented by a union," accord­ing to the cards. 
During the demonstration,
• 

the cards were attached to a string that was held during the gathering on the steps of Main Building and during the march to the Mason Services Center. 
The union support cards were delivered to the build­ing manager at the Mason Services Center, who said he would hang them up in the building, according to Angulo. 
In speeches on the steps of Main Building before the march, CLAP members and labor activists spoke about the necessity of unions on campus. 
Senior Mary "What I'd like them to One commu­DeAgostino, a do is tell workers, go nity member CLAP member, at the event
ahead, {unionize], 
addressed the said, however, 
"increasing this is up to you; this that some 
concern that is a worker's workers on their voices campus are
decision. ,, 
are not being already union­heard." ized. Troy 
She also said Caroline Domingo Warner, a that there is leader with
communications director 
"a real fear of the Electrical
Institute for Latino 
talking about Workers Local
Studies
unions a m o· n g employees. 
DeAgostino said that the demonstration "shows work­ers ... we will be there to support them." 
Paul Mishler, assistant pro­fessor of Labor Studies at Indiana University-South Bend, also· spoke to the crowd. 
Mishler suggested that if the University encountered financial problems related to the recession, Notre Dame employees could be the next to lose their jobs. 
"Every institution is busy cutting wages, and cutting employees," he said. "There is no guarantee that if there are cuts, it's going to be done fairly." 
Caroline Domingo, commu­nications director at the Institute for Latino Studies, also spoke. 
In her 25 years at Notre Dame, she said she has seen many changes, but unioniza­tion is not one of them. 
After recounting the sto­ries of colleagues in Buil~ing Services who have suffered in the recent economic cri­sis, she shared an anecdote about the Tax Assistance Program offered each year by Accountancy students. The program helps low­income workers filr, taxes. Currently, those making less than $38,000 qualify as low 
.. What I'd 
like them to do is to tell workers, go ahead, [unionize]. this is up to you; this is a workers' decision," she said. 
The University has long held the same position on unionization, which was reiterated in a statement by Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves in April 2006. 
"Notre Dame has long rec­ognized the right of our employees to unionize if they wish, and has stated that if they do vote to have a union the University will bargain with it 'in good faith,"' Affleck-Graves wrote. 
Still, Domingo said she would like administration to more "benevolently" state 
that it is open 
to unioniza­
tion. 
Union No. 
153, explained 
that approxi­mat~ly 150 electrical work­ers in his union are regular­ly contracted by Notre Dame. 
He said that many people aren't aware that some workers on campus are union members, and that the University does have a rela­tionship with existing trade unions. 
"Notre Dame has a great relationship with building trade unions, and they can continue that relationship with their own workers," Warner said. 
Warner said he wanted to "let the workers know that they are already unions on campus." , 
Currently, an increasing number of University­employed workers have begun signing union cards, which signifies a desire to unionize, according to Angulo. 
Angulo said that events like the one held Tuesday are a sign of solidarity and support for employees who might be considering signing a union card. 
"We're supporting the workers. If they want union cards, we support them," Angulo said.
. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


Wednesday, February 18, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:.s WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Guadeloupe on verge of rebellion 
BASSE-TERRE, Guadeloupe -The French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe was on the verge of rebellion, a political leader said Tuesday after stone-throwing proteste_rs set cars and buildings ablaze, forced the inter­national airport to close and clashed with police. · 
Nearly four weeks of work stoppages and demonstrations for lower prices and higher pay have caused thousands of tourists to flee or cancel holidays on the normally tranquil island, prompting many hotels to close and cruise ships to head elsewhere. 
"It is a political crisis, an institutional crisis and we are on the brink of sedition," Guadeloupe's Regional Council President Victorin Lurel told France-Info radio. 
From Paris, France's Interior Minister Michele Alliot-Marie said the protests had caused "degradation, devastation and con­frontations" on Guadeloupe and its sister island, Martinique, where most shops and offices have been closed by the protests. 
Mghan civilian death rate increases 
KABUL -The number of civilians killed in Afghanistan's worsening conflict jumped 40 percent to a new high last year,_ and more than half of the deaths were inflicted by Taliban insurgents and other militants, the United Nations said Tuesday. 
The report said insurgents increasingly usc roadside bombs, car bombs and sui­cide bombers in attacks that are "under­taken regardless of the impact on civil­ians." In the latest such attack, the U.S. military reported a roadside bomb killed five civilians Monday in Kandahar province. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Jury finds rancher liable for assault 
TUCSON, Ariz. -A federal jury on Tuesday rejected several claims by a group of illegal immigrants who claimed a southern Arizona rancher detained them at gunpoint, but found the rancher liable for assault and infliction of emotional distress. · 
The eight-member civil jury found that Roger Barnett didn't violate the immigrants' civil rights in 2004, and it rejected claims of battery· and false imprisonment. For the remaining claims Barnett was ordered to pay $77,804 in damages -$60,000 of which were punitive. · 
Plane crash into home investiaged 
ClARENCE, N.Y. -The man at the controls of a turboprop plane that pitched like a kite before crashing into a house last week had spent only 110 hours flying that model, and investigators said Tuesday they would look into the quality and quantity of his training. 
The pilot of Continental Connection Flight 3407 apparently ignored federal recommenda­tions not to fly on autopilot as ice was building on his plane, though investigators so far say he violated no rules. 
Whether Capt. Marvin Renslow did all he could to prevent potentially disastrous ice buildup or shake it from his plane remains to be seen. But. experts pointed out Tuesday that he had flown thousands of hours in a similar plane, which would have nrepared him for icing on his aircraft. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Cameras to be installed at red lights 
INDIANAPOLIS -Drivers may want to think twice about blowing through red light.;;. 
The Republican-controlled Indiana Senate passed a bill 28-22 Tuesday to allow cities and towns to install cameras at intersections to catch drivers running re<:l lights. The fine would be no more than $100. · 
Supporters of red-light cameras, which would photograph rear license plates, say the devices can help save lives while a1lowing police offi­cers to focus on more serious criminal behavior. 
Burris tried to help ousted lli. Gov. 
Senator admits to an unsuccessful attempt to raise money for Blagojevich 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -U.S. 
Sen. Roland Burris now 
acknowledges attempting to 
raise money for ousted Gov. 
Hod Blag~jevich -an explo­
sive twist in his evolving 
story on how he landed a 
coveted Senate appointment 
from the man accused of try­
ing to sell the seat. 
Burris made the admission 
to reporters late Monday, 
after releasing an affidavit 
over the weekend saying he 
had more contact with 
Blagojevich advisers about 
the Senate seat than he had 
described under oath to the 
state House panel that rec­
ommended Blagojevich's 
impeachment. The Democrat 
also said in the affidavit, but 
not before the panel, that the 
governor's brother asked 
him for fundraising help. 
Though Burris insists he never raised money for Blagojevich while the gover­nor was considering whom to appoint to the seat 'President Barack Obama vacated, the revelation that he had attempted to do so is likely to increase calls for Burris" resignation and an investigation into whether he committed perjury before the panel. 
Illinois Democrats have sent documents related to Burris' testimony to a county prosecutor for review. In 

Washington, a good-govern­Bloomington, also said he weren't willing to contribute Senate post. During his testi­ment group recommended planned to release later this and suggested that Robert mony before the panel, he Burris' expulsion from the week "a concise document" Blagojevich talk to Burris' said he remembered talking Senate if an ethics commit­related to his testimony, but partner about approaching only to one aide about the tee investigation shows he he would not elaborate. other potential donors. seat and did not say he was lied to Senate leaders. After an event Monday Burris reiterated that in hit up for campaign dona­
Burris, in the middle of a night in Peoria, Burris told the end, he raised no money tions. previously scheduled· tour of reporters that he had and hosted no fundraiser. He The new affidavit submit­
northern and central Illinois -reached out to friends after told Robert Blagojevich in a ted to the impeachment cities, would not discuss his Blagojevich's brother, later conversation that he panel indicated contact not attempts to raise funds for Robert, called him before couldn't raise money only with Robert Blagojevich, 
Blagojevich, but said he did­President Barack Obama's because he was interested in but with Blagojevich 's for­n't do anything wrong and election asking him to raise the Senate seat. Burris, how­mer chief of staff John Harris encouraged officials to look $10,000 or $15,000 for the ever, already had indicated and two other close friends his interest in the Senate all of whom Burris had
into the matter. governor. ­"I welcome the opportunity "So sometime shortly after seat to gubernatorial aides, been specifically asked about to go before any and all Obama was elected, the including Robert Blagojevich, by the committee's top 
investigative bodies ... to brother called (again) and I before the November elec­Republican. answer any questions they had talked to some people tion. "You would think those have," he told ref)orters in about trying to see if we Lawmakers of both parties would be the kind of people 
Peoria, before declining to could put a fundraiser on," have said Burris should you'd remember you had a answer questions. Burris said, according to an resign after he admitted over conversation with," said Rep. Burris, who declined to~ audio clip provided by the the weekend that he had Gary Hannig, a Litchfield address reporters again dur­Peoria Journal-Star. talked to several aides of the Democrat and a member of ing a later stop in But Burris said his friends governor before getting the the impeachment committee. 

Courfupholds calories-on-menu rule 
Education Act was not intended to steak, which· contains 540, or that 
Associated Press 

apply to restaurant food, writing that two jelly-filled doughnuts at Dunkin' 
NEW YORK -A federal appeals the city "merely stepped into a Donuts have fewer calories than a court on Tuesday upheld the city's sphere that Congress intentionally sesame bagel with cream cheese." regulation requiring some chain left open to state and local govern­New York City is believed to have restaurants to post calories on menus ments." been the first U.S. city to enact a reg­
and menu boards, saying the rule is a The calorie rule, the court wrote, ulation requiring calories on menus. reasonable effort to curb obesity. "mandates a simple factual disclo­Since then, California and 
A 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals sure of caloric information and is Philadelphia ha.ve passed similar panel rejected arguments by a state reasonably related to New York City's bills. trade group that federal law pre­goals of combating obesity." The city's rule applies to restau­
empted the rule and that the city had The court cited research showing rants that are part of chains with at violated the First Amendment by consumers typically can't assess how least 15 outlets across the country. 
forcing its view on restaurant patrons many calories are in food, ''a state­Health Commissioner Thomas H. that calories are the most important ment which we do not doubt upon Frieden said Tuesday that most chain consideration on a menu. being informed ... that a smoked restaurants have been in compliance 
The three-judge panel ruled that turkey sandwich at Chili's contains since the city began enforcing the the federal Nutrition Labeling and 930 calories, more than a sirloin rule in July. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
ed to be close to campus, so we could play a role by buy­

Projects 
ing up lots." continued from page 1 About 15 faculty members 
currently live in the area, Revitalization Project, and many more are on a Hakanen said the University, waiting list, Affleck-Graves guided by the city and a said. neighborhood group, buys In addition to improving the housing lots on Notre Dame housing in the neighborhood, Ave., builds homes with a the University also wanted to pre-approved aesthetic and encourage a growth of busi­rents them to ness in the University area, Affleck­faculty. Graves said.
"We saw it as an 

Hakanen The idea to
opportunity. Housing 

said the create a "col­homes com­had declined in that lege town" in missioned by area, and we knew walking dis­the University tance of cam­
faculty and staffwanted 

are required pus was first to have a tra­to be close to campus, so broached by 
ditional look we could play a role in the previous 
with a front executive vice
buying up lots.,,

porch, and president, Fr. the garage Tim Scully, has to be John Affleck-Graves and it was 
behind the executive vice president this that led house. to the con-
Hoffman 
-continued from page 1 
morning. 
Hofl'man and Griffin received more than 50 percent of the vote, according to an e-mail the BOG sent to the student body Tuesday. The e-mail did not specify how many students voted, or what percentage of stu­dents voted to abstain. 
''I'm very, very excited [that we won]," Hoffman said. "I wish there had been another oppo­nent running, but Meg and I are so excited to start our term." 
She said that they plan to work on putting some of their platform ideas into action in the next few weeks now that they have been elected. 
"Besides assembling our cabi­net, we will continue BOG's efforts to extend the Student Center hours," she said, refer­ring to an initiative by current student body president and vice president Mickey Gruscinski and Sarah Falvey to keep the Student Center open until midnight Sunday through Thursday and until 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday. Currently, the building closes at 10 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and midnight on Friday and Saturday. 
Hofl'man also said the duo will work to get printers installed in every dorm. 
~'These are student concerns that have already been voiced," she said. "If we address those now, then when we do take office in April, and next fall, we'll be able to address other student concerns." 
BOG sent an e-mail reminding students to log onto the Saint Mary's PRISM Web site to vote yesterday and hung posters about voting in LeMans, but Hofl'man credits the fact that she and Meg campaigned in the Student Center to part of the voter turnout. 
"When I was campaigning on Sunday in the Student Center I had a girl come up to me and say, 'I'm so glad you're doing this, it's nice to meet the only candidate running," she said. "If [students] don't know the candi­date they feel an obligation to vote abstain." · 
The two welcome any students to come speak with them now that they are president and vice president-elect. 
"Now that we're in place we're really eager to hear what stu­dents want done," Hoffman said. "Right now we have a blank slate and we want to get some issues on it so we can start addressing them." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 

Center 
continued from page 1 
the end of a three-year planning process. After the Language Hesource Center (LRC) in O'Shaughnessy Hall closed with the unexpected death of it'i direc­tor, Ursula Williams, the University formed a committee to explore options for a new language center, A<ikildson said. 
Current programming ofiered by the CSLC includes peer tutoring in the Romance Languages, lan­guages tables and social events. Askildson plans to expand these programs to include more lan­guages. 
The CSLC's a main lounge fea­tures couches and open booths to promote interaction and foreign language discussion. Askildson said that the lounge area fills up during the day with students who come to study and converse in var­ious languages. 
The CSLC's multimedia room offers foreign language television and film viewing and serves a-; a conference room. future plans for this room include HD streaming video communication with stu­
"At the end of the day, we  "Hopefully the park will  several pri­vate donors.  
will not have any invest­ment left in the project,"  bring new ideas to the forefront and create jobs and  T h e University is donating the land and cov­ 
he said. The  third  economic growth. ··  ering con­struction  
construction project the University has  David Brenner president and CEO  c 0 s t s , Brenner said. He said the  
a  stake  in  is  Innovation Park  end  figures  
Innovation  will  not  be  
Park,  which  released, but  

will be located at the corner it will total in the millions. of Twyckenham Drive and "This is seen by the Edison Road. University as a major invest­
Innovation Park is a ment in faculty and students research park that will focus to research further than they on expanding the research of can in the classroom," he Notre Dame faculty and stu­said. dents by transforming basic, Along with transforming academic research into a the research of students and viable marketplace venture, faculty, Innovation Park will according to President and also offer companies the CEO David Brenner. opportunity to use the Park's 
"Hopefully the park will resources, Brenner said, bring new ideas to the fore­"We are in discussions with front and create jobs and 20 or more companies in dif­economic growth," Brenner ferent stages of negotia­said. tions," he said. "These com­
Brenner said most major panies will come to research universities already Innovation Park because they 
want to engage students and faculty in their research to 
help solve  a  problem  or fig­ 
ure  out  how  to  do  some-·  
thing."  

Brenner said Innovation Park is a result of University President Fr. John Jenkins' vision to expand research at Notre Dame. 
Despite the struggling econ­omy, Affleck-Graves said each of these projects involve relatively low-risk invest­ments. 
He said even if Innovation Park does not stimulate the expected commercial ven­tures, it will still augment Notre Dame's research opportunities. 
As far as building the Eddy Street Commons, Affleck­Graves said this is probably the worse time in the past 50 years to be in the business of commercial development, but since Kite Realty now pri­vately owns the project, the University has little to lose from any business failure. 
"We want the projects to be a success," he said. "But University money is not at risk." 
The second part of this series will explore the impact of these projects on students and faculty. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Executive Vice President John Affleck­Graves said he estimaies the University has been building houses in the northeast neighborhood, which is cen­tered on Notre Dame Ave., south of campus, for about 10 years and accumulating property for about 18 years. 
"We saw it as an opportuni­ty," he said. "Housing had declined in that area, and we knew faculty and staff want­
struction of the Eddy Street Commons, Affleck-Graves said. 
Affleck-Graves said the University bought the land on Eddy Street to turn into a commercial district, but the administration did not want to be the developers of the project. 
"It's a big project, and we didn't want to use University money," he said. 
Notre Dame sold the ven­
ture to Kite Realty, a private real estate firm from Indianapolis, he said. 
Affleck-Graves said the University invested an undis­closed amount into the proj­ect, but Kite Realty will pay the money back as the ven­ture turns a profit. 

have a park of this sort, so Notre Dame is acting as the primary sponsor of the proj­ect. However, Innovation Park is an independent facili­ty that is a collaborative effort between the University, the city of South Bend, the state of Indiana and 

dents in Notre Dame's foreign lan­guage study abroad programs, A-;kildson said. 
A third room in the CSLC can be a classroom or dub meeting space. Foreign language groups can reserve the space, Askildson said, such as the Japanese club, which hosted a karaoke night in the 
·space on Friday. 
While the CSLC is an inviting study space, it is only available for foreign language student<;. 
"We are making a very con­scious effort to reserve this space for foreign language study," Askildson said. 
Askildson said the number of students who have made use of the CSLC in the past month is encouraging. 
"We invite all foreign language students to come in and learn about our services," he said. "I think it's going extremely well." 
Askildson said that while the center receives frequent input from foreign language faculty members, he hopes that students who use the CSLC will also begin to offer constructive criticism. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


"' INDIANA UNIVEHSIT\' 
SCHOOL OF LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SCIENCE 
Graduate degrees for the strongly curious. All majors welcome. 
www.slis. indiana .edu 

Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
·Jones 7,552.60 -297.XI 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
357 64 3,453 2.698,088,222 

AMEX  1,364.46 .'<  ..36:66  
NASDAQ  1,470.66  ·-6J.70  
NYSE  4,939..11.  -267.65  
S&P 500  789.17  -37.67  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) · · 7;S39.54 · -105.97 FTSE 100 (London) 4,034.13 -100.62 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY)  -4.28  -~.54  79.22  
BK OF AMERICA (BAC}  -12.03  -0.67  4.90  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -9.94  -0.88  7.97  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  ·12.32  ·0.43  3.06  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -7.63  ·0.220  2.662  
13-WEEK BILL  -1.72  -0.005  0.285  
30-YEAR BOND  -5.32  -0.196  3.486  
S·YEAR NOTE  ·10.19  -0.190  1.674  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -2.58  34.93  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +25.30  967.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.55  80.95  
Exchange Rates  
YEN 92.3100 EURO 1.2583 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2642 BRITISH POUND 1.4239 


IN BRIEF 
Fmancer charged with 'massive fraud' 
NEW YOHK-The federal government says R. Allen Stanford's investment businesses were too good to be true, and shut his companies down on Tuesday. 
Two months after Bernard Madoff was accused of running the largest investment fraud in history, Securities and Exchange Commission officials raided the oflices of Stanford, a Texas billionaire, and froze the assets of three companies he con­trols, saying he perpetrated an $8 billion inw~st­ment fraud. 
Stanford was accused in civil charges of lying about the safety of investments he sold a'> "certifi­cates of deposit" and promised unrealistically high rates of return. Regulators also said he faked historical data about other investments which he then used to lure in more investors for the CD product'i. 
Cigarette tax increases in Ar~. LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -Cigarettes in Arkansas soon will cost an extra 56 cents a pack. 
Gov. Mike Beebe signed an $87.8 million tobacco tax hike into Jaw Tuesday to fund a statewide trau­ma care system and expand existing health pro­grams. The law takes effect March 1. 
The state increase L'> on top of a 62-<~ent-a-paek federal excise tax signed into law this month. The 
• legislation would also raL'ie the tax on other tobac­co products -such a<; cigars and pip£~ and t~hew­ing tobaceo -from 32 pereent of the wholesale price to 68 percent. When the increase takes eflect next month, the state's cigarette tax will rise to $1.15 per pack, ranking it 25th in the nation, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. State oflkials say the Arkansas tax increase, when combined with federal matching dollars, will pay for nearly $180 miJlion in expanded health programs. 
Beebe has proposed using the new revenue to expand the AHKids first health insuranrn pro­gram for low-inrume children. The proposal would change the income eligibility provision. a move that will open it up to about 8,000 more ehildren. Other programs that Beebe ha"> ealled lor funding with the tobacco tax money is a northwest Arkansas campus fhr the University of Arkansas for Medical Sd£mces, community hnalth c.-nters and a statewide flu shot campaign. 

Obama signs $787 billion stimulus 
President also readies foreclosure rescue plan, hopes to revive economy 
Associated Press 
DENVEH -Hacing to 
reverse the eountry's 
economic spiral, 
President Rarack Obama 
signed the mammoth 
stimulus package into 
law Tuesday and readied 
a new $50 billion foreclo­
sure rescue for legions of 
Americans who are in 
danger of losing their 
homes. 
There was no recovery yet for beleaguered automakers, who were back in Washington for more baiJout billions. General Motors Corp. said it was closing plants. Chrysler LLC said it was cutting vehicle models and both said they were getting rid of thousands more jobs as they made their restruc­turing cases for $5 bil­lion more for Chrysler and as much as $16.6 billion more for GM. The United Auto Workers union said it had agreed to tentative concessions that could help Detroit's struggling Big Three. 
Anything but reas­sured, Wall Street dove ever lower. The Dow Jones industrials fell 
297.81 points, closing less than a point above their lowest level in five and a half years. 

Obama focused on the $787 billion stimulus .. None of this will be alternative energy busi­plan that could send $2 plan, an ambitious pack­easy," he said...The road ness leaders. Earlier, the trillion coursing through age of federal spending to recovery will not be pair examined solar pan­the financial system. and tax cuts designed to straight. We will make els on the museum's Obama is expected to revive the economy and progress, and there may roof. detail how the adminis­save millions of jobs. be some slippage along On Wednesday. Obama tration plans to prod the Most wage -earners will the way." will outline another big mortgage industry to do soon see the first pay­Still, he declared, "We piece of his recovery more in modifying the check evidence of tax have begun the essential effort -a $50 billion terms of home loans so breaks that will total work of keeping the plan to help stem foreclo­borrowers have lower $400 for individuals and American dream alive in sures -in Arizona, one monthly payments. $800 for couples. our time." of the states hardest hit More than 2.3 million 
The stimulus package Underscoring energy­by the mortgage defaults homeowners coast-to­was a huge victory for related investments in that are at the center of coast faced foreclosure Obama less than one the new law, Obama and the nation's economic proceedings last year, an month into his presiden­Vice President Joe Biden woes. 81 percent increase from cy. But he struck a sober flew separately to Denver Treasury Secretary 2007. Analysts say that tone and lowered expec­where the president Timothy Geithner men­number could soar as tations for an immediate signed it at the Denver tioned the housing pro­high as 10 million in the turnaround in the severe Museum of Nature & gram last week as he coming years, depending recession that is well into Science before roughly rolled out a wide-ranging on the severity of the its second year. 250 people including financial-sector rescue recession. 
GM, Chrysler seek more gov't aid 
had reached a tentative agreement turn is more pronounced than
Associated Press 

with GM, Chrysler and Ford Motor expected. But the automaker elaimed 
DETHOIT -General Motors .and Co. on contract changes. Concessions it could be profitable in two years Chrysler said Tuesday their request with the union and debt-holders were and repay its loans by 2017. for federal aid ballooned to a stagger­a condition of the government The requests pale in comparison to 
ing $39 billion -only months after bailout. what it might cost taxpayers if GM or receiving billions in loans -in new GM said it could need up tp $30 bil­Chrysler go bankrupt, said Aaron plans that envision massive job losses lion from the Treasury Department, Bragman, auto industry analyst for and intense restructuring to survive a up from a previous estimate nf $18 the consulting firm IllS Global Insight deepening recession. billion. That includes $13.4 billion in Troy, Mich. 
General Motors Corp. presented a the compar.y has already received. "These are not small. insignificant survival plan that calls for cutting a The world's largest automaker said it organizations," he said. "These are total of 4 7,000 jobs globally and clos­could run out of money by March the lifeblood of American manufac­ing five more U.S. factories, a move without new funds and needs $2 bil­turing." that represents the largest work lion next month and another $2.6 bil­The company looked into three force reduction announc~d by a U.S. lion in ApriL bankruptcy scenarios, all of which company in the economic meltdown. "We have a lot of work to do," GM would cost the govcrnme1lt more Chrysler LLC said it will cut 3,000 Chairman and Chief Executive Hick than $30 billion. GM Chief Operating more jobs and stop. producing three Wagoner said. "We're still going at Officer Fritz Henderson said. The vehide modt~ls. this with a great sense of urgency." worst scenario would cost $100 bil­
The grim f!) ports came as the · GM's nlquest ineludcs a credit line lion because G's revenue would United Auto Workers union said it of$7.5 billion to be usnd ifthe down-sPvPrcly drop. he said. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
CAMBODIA 
Former head of torture center charged in trial 
Associated Press 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia 
-The former head of the 
Khmer Rouge's most notori­
ous torture center sat behind 
protective glass Wednesday 
as judges held a closed-door 
meeting on details including 
when to start testimony at 
Cambodia's long-delayed 
genocide tribunal. 
Kaing Guek Eav -better 
known as Ouch -is charged 
with crimes against humani­
ty. He is the first of five 
defendants who belonged to a 
close-knit, ultra-communist 
regime that ruled Cambodia 
in the 1970s and turned it 
into a vast slave labor camp 
and charnel house in which 
1. 7 million or more people perished.. 
Ouch oversaw the S-21 
prison in the capital Phnom 
Penh -previously a school, 
now the Tuol Sleng genocide 
museum -where some 
16,000 men, women and chil­
dren were detained and tor­
tured. Only a handful sur­
vived., 
Ouch's case before the 
U.N.-assisted tribunal opened 
Tuesday, but the hearing .so 
far ,has been procedural, and 
he did not speak to the panel. 
The pretrial proceedings will 
lay the groundwork for the 
full trial expected to begin in 
March. 
Wed11esday's proceedings 
started in private, with 
judges holding a closed-door 
session to discuss the witness 
list, Mao Vuth, a tribunal 
coordinator said. 
The prosecution said it will 
present 33 witnesses over 40 ·days, while the defense said it seeks to have 13 witnesses testify over 4 1/2 days. Once the number of witnesses is finalized, judges can set spe­cific trial dates and put Ouch 
on the stand. 
Duch, his attorneys and the 
judges' bench were protected 
from the public gallery by a 
thick plexiglass-type barrier. 
The 66-year-old Ouch, is 
the only defendant to have 
expressed remorse for his 
actions. He is accused of 
committing or abetting a 
range of crimes including 
murder, torture and rape. He 
did not address the court 
Tuesday but through his 
lawyer he again voiced 
regret. 
"Duch acknowledges the 
facts he's being charged 
with," his French lawyer 
Francois Raux said at a press 
briefing after Tuesday's court 
session. "Ouch wishes to ask 
forgiveness from the victims 
but also from the Cambodian 
people. He will do so publicly. 
This is the very least he owes 
the victims." 
The tribunal said in an 
indictment in March that, 
"Ouch necessarily decided 
how long a prisoner would 
live, since he ordered their 
execution based on a person­
al determination of whether a 
prisoner-had fully confessed" 
to being an enemy of the 
regime. 
In one mass execution, he gave his men a "kill them all" order, the indictment said. In another incident involving 29 prisoners he told his hench­men to "interrogate four per­sons, kill the rest," it said. 
After the fall of the Khmer Rouge, Ouch disappeared for two decades, living under two other names and converting to Christianity before he was located in northwestern Cambodia by a British jour­nalist in 1999. 
Kan Hann, 55, who lives in the same district of Kampong Thorn province in central Cambodia where Ouch grew up, said he came to the trial because his brother and sis­ter died of starvation and overwork under the Khmer Rouge. 
"My dream has come true now as I have been waiting for the trial for 30 years," he said. 
Duch's trial began 13 years after the tribunal was first proposed and nearly three years after the court was inaugurated. 
"This is a very significant. day for Cambodia and the world," co-prosecutor Robert Petit told reporters. "Today's proceedings bode well for the commitment of all parties· to seek justice for the Khmer Rouge." 
The tribunal, which incor­porates mixed teams of for­eign and Cambodian judges, prosecutors and defenders, has drawn sharp criticism. Its snail-pace proceedings have been plagued by political interference from the Cambodian government. as well as allegations of bias and corruption. 
The Cambodian side in the tribunal recently turned down recommendations from the international co-prosecu­tor to try other Khmer Houge leaders, as many as six according to some reports. 


Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 
Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 


Palin faces fiscal challenges 
Associated Press 
ANCHORGE, Iaska -Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin's first two years in oflice have been called a time of milk and honey, when the resource-rich state was flush with wealth from record oil prices. 
The second half of her term isn't looking so rosy as Palin faces her first major financial challenge as governor. 
The rapid decline of oil prices has left the state in a looming budget crisis and a late-entrant in the national recession. And that could have political reper­cussions for the former Republican vice presidential hopeful, who has signaled an interest in a 2012 presidential run but must stay visible iH the Lower 48 to be successful. 
"Given these bad times, she's going to have a much more diffi­cult time traveling outside Alaska," said Larry Sabato, director of the University of Virginia's Center for Politics. "When times are good, people , will let their governor roam. In bad times, citizens expect their governor to stay home and work on solving the problems." 
Oil accounts for as much as 90 percent of state revenues. So the plunge of North Slope crude from an all-time high of $144.59 per barrel last July threatens to give the state an estimated budget shortfall of up to $1.5 billion in the fiscal year that ends June 30. 
Palin bills herself as a fiscal conservative, and has called for reducing state spending by $268 million in this budget year, but lawmakers and others say these aren't reductions at all and do nothing to curtail spending. For example, the bulk of that sum ­$200 million -is unspent tax credit<> for companies investing in oil and gas development that are being returm~d to the treasury. 
Palin also is seeking approval from lawmakers to tap budget reserves to fill the deficit. She also ha..c; implemented a state hir­ing freeze that exempts public safety employees, but other departments are lining up to ask for waivers. 

It's a long way from Palin's early tenure -particularly last year when the state's treasury was bloated with surplus money from the skyrocketing oil prices. 
From that bounty the hugely popular governor got the state to give $1 ,200 to most Alaskans in a one-timp fuel relief payout that totaled about $740 million. That payout was on top of a record $2,069 dividend from the state's oil royalty investment program, which distributes checks annual­ly. 
"The first two years of her term, upon reflection and looking over your shoukler, are going to be looked back at fondly," said Sen. Kim Elton, a Juneau Democrat who is rumored to be up for a post in President Barack Obama's Interior department. 
"The coming two years for Sarah Palin I think will be diffi­cult. You test the mettle of people in hard times. That applies to all elected oflicials," he added. 
Palin, who has not said if she will run for re-election as gover­nor in 2010, said that dealing with the oil wealth was actually her first significant challenge. It meant reining in government spending sprees and making "sure that we were living within our means and putting money aside for a rainier day." 
The state has socked away $1 billion in an education fund for the next school year and educa­tion officials say another $1 bil­lion is expected go into the fund this year for future use. More bil­lions went into state savings as well, Palin said. 
"We're more prepared than other states because of the pru­dence there," Palin said recently. "We crossed that first hurdle." 
The state currently has $6.6 billion in its constitutional budget reserve fund that it could tap into. A few billion dollars more also is available from other pock­ets, said Juneau economist Gregg Erickson, a longtime Alaska budget watcher. 
Given Alaska's robust reserves, the state is well-prepared to weather the next two years, Erickson said. As to how long reserves will last after that, there are too many factors involved to say for sure. 
"It depends on how much you draw from other places, how fast the budget increases and declines, the earnings rates on reserves that you have," Erickson said. "And of course, it depends on how high or low oil prices are." 
Bear Ketzler, an Interior Alaska resident, has a hard time envisioning Palin running for a second term as governor. 
"She's kind of been moved up a couple notches and I could see her leaving the state and getting her profile up even higher on the national political level," said Ketzler, city manager of the Yukon River village of Tanana. "But I think for her to be elec­table in four years, Obama w_puld really have to screw up." 

Magrane Pet Medical Center Welcomes.· 
Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate ofUniversity of Notre Dame and Purdue's School ofVeterinary medicine. 
Dr. Logue brings a wealth ofexperience in emergency and critical care medicine -care of the sickest pets, to our experienced staff. 
"Caring for your pet is caring for afamily n1en1ber and Ifeel priyileged to work with a great team to care for your pet, whether healthy or ill.~~ 
., 

Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawa·ka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
TV stations switch from analog to digital 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -About a quar­ter of the nation's TV stations· cut off their analog signals Tuesday, causing sr,ts to go dark in households that were not prepared for digital televi­sion despite two years of warnings about the transition. 
Though most viewers were ready -and people with cable or satellite service were unaf­fected -. some stations and call centers reported a steady stream of questions from frus­trated callers. Many wondered how to get coupons for con­verter boxes that translate digital signals for older TVs ­or how to get the devices working. 
''It's kind of an irritation, but I understand that everyone will have a much better pic­ture. As far as I was con­cerned, they could have left things the way they were," said Dorothy Delegard, 6 7, of Minneapolis, who bought a converter box because a friend gave her a coupon that expires Tuesday. 
Phones were ringing off the hook at a walk-in information center set up by stations in Providence, R.I. 
A volunteer at the center, Jeremy Taylor, said he tried to calm agitated callers and explain the reasons for the disappearance of analog sig­nals, which have remained largely unchanged since the 1950s. 
"I try to explain that the dig­ital switch is not something , we're doing to extort them of 
money," Taylor said. 
The federal government man(iated the end of analog broadcasts to make room on those frequencies for wireless Internet service, emergency radio traffic and other uses. Digital TV broadcasts, which began several years ago, take up much less of the wireless spectrum. 
Originally, alJ U.S. stations were to cut their analog sig­nals on Tuesday, but at the urging of the Obama adminis­tration, Congress voted this month to give broadcasters more time. 
Most stations, particularly those in big cities, accepted the offer to wait until June 12. Others wanted to stick to Feb. 17, a date they had spent much airtime advertising. Many of ~hem had also booked engineering work on their antennas for that day. 
The Federal Communications Commission, whkh wanted to ensure that no one would. be entirely deprived of analog signals, cleared 421 stations to go all­digital this week. Another 220 stations have already made the switch, including all sta­tions in Hawaii. 
The must populous places 

where many or all major-net­
work stations are cutting ana­
log this week include San 
Diego and Santa Barbara, 
Calif.; La Crosse and Madison, 
Wis.; Hockford and Peoria, Ill.; 
Sioux City, Iowa; Waeo, Texas; 
Macon, Ga.; Scranton, Pa.; 
Hhode Island and Vermont. 
In most cases, one station in 
each of those markets will 
continue sending analog sig­
nals until June or will offer a 
so-called "·analog nightlight" 
for a few months, with limited 
local news and emergency 
broadcasts, as well as infor­
mation about the digital TV 
transition. 
The back-and-forth over the 
cutoff date threw both TV sta­
tions and viewers for a loop. 
Jeff Long, manager of 
WHKY-TV, an independent sta­
tion in Hickory, N.C., said the 
company's analog shutdown 
went smoothly on Saturday, 
but some viewers complained 
that they thought it had been 
postponed until June 12. 
RadioShack Corp. circulars 
in newspapers this weekend 
had the opposite message, 
saying Feb. 1 7 was still the 
date for the end of analog TV. 
Spokeswoman Mary Delagarza 
said the fliers had been pre­
pared two months in advance 
and could not be pulled. 
Congress delayed the cutoff in large part because the fund that pays for $40 converter­box coupons had reached its spending limit. Coupons are now being issued only as fast as old ones expire unused. 
The stimulus bill that President Barack Obama signed Tuesday contains $650 million in additional funding. Once that money becomes available, it can clear the backlog of 4 million coupons in a few weeks. Without a coupon, a converter box costs $45 to $80. 
Joe Glynn, vice president of engineering at PBS affiliate WVIA-TV near Scranton, Pa., said the station got a dozen calls in the past two days about its planned changeover at 11:59 p.m. Tuesday. The converter boxes have been a frequent subject. 
"Unfortunately, some of them have asked how you get the coupons for the converter box. Some of them have called asking us if we sell converter boxes. Others are calling and saying 'I got ilie converter, but I'm not getting anything on it' -I'm assuming beeause they don't have it hooked up right," he said. 
He said most callers acknowledge that they only have themselves to blame for procrastinating. 
"Everybody admits it's their fault. They knew it was com­ing," he said. "Some people seemed to be mad at them­selves for n~t doing something sooner." 


Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Old Europe is 
reaching out to the new Iraq. 
Germany's foreign minister 
met Tuesday with Iraqi leaders 
in the latest high-level visit by a 
major Western nation that 
refused to take part in the 2003 
U.S.-led invasion but is now 
looking for ties and lucrative 
contracts. 
Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the first German foreign minister to come to Iraq in more than 20 years, arrived one week after Nicolas Sarkozy visited Baghdad, the French president calling on other European countries to follow his lead "to support the peace." 
Iraqi leaders seem eager to cement their relations with Germany and France partly to avoid the appearance of being puppets of the United States ­which at any rate is preparing to withdraw its troops, many of whom worked on infrastructure projects such as rebuilding bridges and roads. · 
Steinmeier, who met with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and other senior officials, told reporters that Germany wants to "extend a hand to the new Iraq." 
"We have seen in the last months important successes in stabilizing the country," he said. 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said the visit showed both countries were eager to resume their "histori­cal relations." 
"We believe that the situation in Iraq has reached a good phase, and thus there is inter­national confidence in the sta­bility of this country," Zebari told reporters after his talks with Steinmeier. 

Those upbeat comments were a far cry from the acrimony of six years ago, when France and Germany spearheaded opposi­tion to the U.S.-led invasion, dividing Europe and damaging relations between Washington 
and  some  of  its  closest  
European allies.  
At  the  time,  Defense  

Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld scoffed at the European critics, branding them "Old Europe" in contrast to a vigorous "New Europe" -former Soviet bloc nations such as Poland, Homania and the Czech Hepublic which supported the invasion. 
Over the years, the heated. rhetoric has cooled. New gov­ernments have taken power in France and Germany. And Iraq's own leadership has gained new legitimacy with the decline in violence and recent provincial elections that took place without major attacks. 
Las( month, the German for­eign minister wrote in an open letter to President Barack Obama, who also opposed the war, that Germany was ready to help "the people of Iraq" create "a stable and democratic state." 
The United States has encour­aged other countries to step up their efforts to help rebuild Iraq, as the U.S. military role in this country winds down. The 
U.S. must withdraw its troops by the end of 2011 according to a security agreement signed with Baghdad last year. 
Obama's administration is considering plans to accelerate the withdrawal to shift military resourees to Afghanistan, where al-Qaicla and a resurgent 
Taliban are challenging the 
U.S.-backed Afghan govern­
ment. 
For their part, the Germans 
are eager to cash in on millions 
of dollars iri lucrative contracts 
in a country which has some of 
the world's largest petroleum 
reserves. 
Steinmeier arrived with rep­
resentatives of German compa­
nies and cultural institutions. 
The Germans hope to estab­
lish an economic office in 
Baghdad, with a branch in the 
northern city of Irbil, the capi­
tal of Iraq's self-governing 
Kurdish region. 
"The office will contribute to reviving the once-intensive eco­nomic relations between Germany and Iraq," German Economy Minister Karl­Theodor zu Guttenberg said in a statement. "The office also will serve to overcome the eco­nomic consequences of the war in Iraq and contribute to the country's economic rebuilding." 
Iraqi government spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said the two sides also signed agreements on scientific and cultural coop­eration, technical and training assistance for the Iraqi Electricity Ministry and to build a German-Iraqi university in Iraq. 
"The visit is a turning point in reIations with Germany," said al-Dabbagh. 

International support comes at a critical time for Iraq, which is only now emerging from nearly six years of vicious war. 
But U.S. officials have repeat­edly warned that the improve-. rnents in security are fragile because major power-sharing issues between rival religious and ethnic groups remain unre­solved. 
Specializing in ~autrful Co!Ot' 

Now Offering Bikini Waxing Take $5 off 
SPRING 

BREAK 
258-5080 
820 W. Edison Rd. Mishawaka, IN 
www.ulonrougeioc.com 
IRAQ 

Europe reaches out to Iraq 
Nation welcomes Germany, France, uJho wish 'to support the peace' 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
page 10 



Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWs EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENF. EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Liz Halter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
,(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
{574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoinr@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @n.d.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK . 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.e<lu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Ediror·in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and departmenr edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint spa~e is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be dir-ected to Editor in ChiifChr{s Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tite Obs<rvcr~USPS 599 2-4UOU) is publi,Juo.fMund•y through Friday t"XC<f" during a.am and V.lc.::arion period!>. A suhscriptiuato 'fh<: Oh~rver ill $100 for nne .ie.~d'lntit.: year; $S5 for one scmorcr. 
The Observer;, publish<d ac POSTMI\STE'R 
014 Sourh Dining Hall Send uidre!>..'i corrections to: 
Notr< Dame. IN 'i65%-0n9 The Ob&ervcr 
Ptriudical po~i.l~ p.aid ar Notre Dame P.O. flux 77"1 
;~;nd additional mailing oltlces. Ol4 South Dining H:UI 
Notte D•mc. IN 46556·0779 

The: O~rver U.a mcmher of rhe Associated PrtSS. All reprodu(:tion righli art: reJer-ved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Jenn Metz  Bill Brink  
Sarah Mervosh  Laura Myers  
Graphics  Cris Masoud  
Blair Chemidlin  Scene  
Viewpoint  Analise Lipari  
Stephanie Vossler  

Bench in pond 
I have become my own life's hero. 
I have accomplished a feat so great, so ·bold, so mighty I no longer consider myself merely mortal. I have transcend­ed this world into the ethereal sphere and conquered the foe heretofore deemed indomitable. 
I have removed the bench from the pond. 
On Saturday night I went over to a friend's house to enjoy an evening of good old-fash­ioned fun. The get-together was proceeding along normally with a top-40 radio inspired playlist and multi­ple small circles being formed in various locations: the family room, the closed-in porch, the room next to the kitchen, the kitchen. It was while standing in the small circle in between the porch and the kitchen that my fellow columnist Brad Blomstrom and I had individual yet identical strokes of genius. 
Our friend and host Christine earlier in the week had told us (and shown us evi­dence that) their outdoor bench had been thrown in their backyard pond and now the pond had frozen over. There stood the bench as majestic as an obelisk to which worship is owed. Christine and her roommates agreed that they no longer wanted their bench to be in their pond and proclaimed whosoever could remove the bench would be champions (of the get-together, of the night, of their hearts). 
Brad and I were going to get that bench out of that pond come hell or high 
·water. But we faced many obstacles. At first we started to chip away at the ice to see how deep into the pond this solid layer lay. The ice was thin, quite thin. And we had broken enough of it that from our first vantage point we would have fallen in instantaneously upon con-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


tact with it. We moved to the opposite edge of the pond and thought to use ply­wood boards to diffuse our weight. Brad would have had to be the one to actually venture onto the boards, as I carry a larger load with me, but we both thought this could potentially work. Unfortunately, our early ventures into chipping away the ice had proven the futility of this method. 
Finally, after several more minutes of analysis and further assessment of the situation, we employed the TV cable Brad had found, lassoed the bench, and pulled the bench out of the pond. With our friends all watching in eager antici­pation that we would fall into the icc­cold water, Brad and I triumphantly heave-ho'd until our mission was com­plete. 
Critics, cynics -all proven wrong. 
That night that bench was removed from that pond. 
Shouts ofjoy rang out from the hud­dled masses that watched us in our vic­tory. ''These men have done it! Clearly they arc superior to us!" One of Christine's roommates thanked us pro­fusely and everyone I knew at the get­together gave me a firm handshake and a knowing head-nod. Saturday night was my night. And Brad's. 
So I reiterate: I have become my own life's hero. And I think I've proved it through this (slightly) exaggerated account of my Saturday evening. But what does this anecdote say about life (more specifically my life) that is of any interest to The Observer readership? Well, it's a complicated matter but I truly believe that the primary reason any of us does anything is ultimately due to some innate desire to prove our own worth. 
The nature of self-glorification is some­times overlooked as selfish or downright mean. People think those who are self­serving are detestable human beings. Overt ambition is derided by popular cul­ture because of the tendency of it to engender excessive pride, particularly in the modern era as ambition has led to some of the greatest follies known to man (from the invention of the Segway to George Lucas unleashing Jar Jar Binks on the world of cinema). Pride leads to a distorted view of reality in which only the individual in question mattf~rs. Such blatant disregard for the actual circum­stances of the world, then, not only degrades people with whom this individ­ual interacts but the individwil himself. 
But let's think about pride in a difl'er­ent way. Isn't being proud just a fancy · way of saying, "I want something good to happen?" If George Washington had not been proud would he have crossed the Delaware? If Harriet Beecher Stowe had not been proud would she have written "Uncle Tom's Cabin"? If Seward had not been proud would we have Alaska as a state? 
Pride, and more specifically being proud of one's actions, is the essence of the American ethos. Without acknowl­edgment of the greatness of one's own personality, the American Dream would fail: a man could not socially thrust him­self upward without initially believing ' himself to be the greatest man of all time. 
So I rescued that bench from that pond because I believe in the American Dream. I believe thaf all men act first out of self-interest and that such selfish behavior is in fact the most American of all behaviors. I had no choice but to get the bench out of the pond. Not doing so would have meant I had defected from the very ideals that were instilled in me at an early age. And I will only ever act in a way to promote my own conception of my greatness and my genius. 
That's probably the main reason I applied for this columnist position. 
With love, this column is dedicated to Christine, Morgan, Heidi, Becca, Emily, Kahki and, of course, Brad. 
Andrew Mijler is a senior English major. He can be contacted at a mille 15@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Will the men's basketball team make the NCAA tournament? Yes No 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


Submit a Letter · to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When we ask[or advice. we are 
usually looking for an accomplice ... 
Marquis de Ia Grange author 
p

Wednesday, February 18, 2009 page 11 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A Christian acceptance 
Brad Duffy in his Feb. 17 letter "A Catholic university" exactly performs the "gay-bashing" that Notre Dame and blind Catholic followers all over the world profess to abhor. His response is a clear gut reaction to the topic of the mere discussion homosexuality at Notre Dame. Perhaps he didn't read the first viewpoint closely enough, where the title "Queer Film Festival" is clearly dis­played multiple times throughout the article, nevertheless he refers to the event as a "play" in the beginning of his second paragraph. No doubt this was a form letter response to attack the immi­nent Vagina Monologues Viewpoint debate that came a few weeks too early. Additionally, I'm sick of too many Catholics deferring to the "undeniable" teachings of the Catholic Church. This is a Catholic Church that initiated the Crusades, murdered more than a thou­sand innocents in the Inquisition, elected Popes over hundreds of years that open­ly bore children, initiated an admitted and massive cover-up of the Priest abuse scandal. The list goes on and on. If everyone can pretty much agree those were bad things. why will no one recog­nize that perhaps their teachings today aren't necessarily infallible? 
·I consider myself Catholic, but moreso Christian, and let us look back to the head honcho of this Christian thing. Jesus Christ welcomed with open arms those outcasts of society that the Pharisees (read Catholic Church here} disdained and ostracized. If his loving acceptance of prostitutes -the Gentiles, Romans, etc. -isn't a model for accept­ing and at least discussing ostracized members of society (read Queer Film Festival), then we truly aren't following Jesus' teachings. I have no strong feel­ings for or against homosexuality, so do not consider me defending their actions or lifestyle. I don't want to start the nature vs. nurture debate either. But my main point is this, shall we believe "sacred Scripture," which in Deuteronomy 25:11-12 commands "If two men are fighting and the wife of one of them comes to rescue her husband from his assailant, and she reaches out and seizes him by his private parts, you shall cut off her hand. Show her no pity?" Does that sound remotely Christian, even Catholic to you? 

Christ dawned a: n~w Kingdom of God on earth with his arrival and death. And the condemnations in the New Testament (none of which were in the Gospels) must be taken in context, where pedastery, for example, was a rampant evil. Also, the main point is those condemnations, if taken literally, are condemnations of acts, and not the mere discussion of them, which is the point of the Queer Film Festival. Also, the term Catholic university implies one must balance the Catholic nature of this institution with the latter part of the title, university, which demands academ­ic discussions relevant to knowledge of the world. 
Therefore, I implore Notre Dame as a Catholic and most especially Christian university to allow these discussion of these alternative lifestyles. 
-
Steven DeLaurentis junior off-campus Feb. 17 
Festival is dearly missed 

In his Feb. 17 letter "A Catholic University," Brad Duffy made the claim that the Queer Film Festival was killed off without causing any ripples in the pond, and that it "is not missed." I'd like to beg to differ; the Queer Film Festival was one of the tipping points in my decision to attend this school in the first place. As a touring high school senior, I remember passing posters advertising the upcoming festival and feeling less uneasy about the idea of choosing a Catholic school. As a gay Catholic, I was definitely still struggling with reconciling these two identities. Having visual proof that Notre Dame was open-minded enough to encourage an open discussion of homosexuality made me feel that I could live at Notre Dame without feeling like a walking contradiction. And really, Brad Duffy is right-Notre Dame isn't anti-gay. Or -let me specify -its student body isn't, at least in my experience. Even among my more conservative friends, I've experienced nothing but open­mindedness and support. I've been lucky enough to never experience rejection because of my sexuality. But the university itself has a long way to go in terms of accommodating its gay 
students. 
When will Notre Dame approve an official club for gay students? When will the Non-Discrimination Clause extend protection to homosexuals? And -as Tom O'Neil pointed out-what the expletive happened to the Queer Film Festival? I respect Brad Duffy's right to hold his own views of the rights or wrongs of homosexuality. What I don't respect is a policy of ignoring issues that make you uncomfortable, or completely closing off the possibility of a fair, well-balanced discussion. 
I know the issue of 'the responsibili­ties of a Catholic university' is a horse that's already been thoroughly beaten in the Viewpoint, but I honestly think any religious person must reflect on and examine -not mindlessly swallow -their religion's teachings. The Queer Film Festival, as a vehicle for discus­sion and debate, provided an alterna­tive view of what it means to be gay. It deserved a chance to live longer than it did. 
Teresa Nesbitt semor Cavanaugh Hall Feb. 17 

Accepting, not neglecting 
Brad Duffy's letter Feb. 17 "A Catholic University" showed Mr. Duffy's knowledge that the Catholic Church "is clear, however, in Her position on homosexual activity: 'Basing itself on sacred Scripture, which presents homosexual acts a<; acts of grave depravity, tradition has always declared that homo~exual acts are intrinsically dis­ordered. They are contrary to the natural law. They close the sexual act to the gift of life. They do not proceed from a genuine affective and sexual complementarity. Under no circumstances can they be approved' (Catechism of the Catholic Church 2357}." Certainly this explains the use of the word "Catholic" in the title of his column. What he clearly neglects is the word "imiversity." 
Relatively few in the world are privileged enough to attend institutions of higher learning, let alone one as fine as Notre Dame. It is the obUgation of these crucial social institutions in part to offer students new perspectives and ideas. Certainly there is nothing un-Catholic about showing people things that they might not be famil­iar with, and in the case of a majority Catholic student body, something they might not necessarily agree with. \Vhat would a world-class education be worth if someone spent four years only experienc­ing the familiar? Furthermore, while Catholics might not condone homosexual behavior, this is no reason to shun and look down upon our gay and lesbian broth­ers and sisters. Society as a whole does not do enough to embrace, understand, and accept the LGBT community as equal. It should be the role of Catholics, if anyone, to extend offers of love and acceptance to all people. The acceptance and celebration ofthe Queer Film Festival at our University is just one small sign of that peace. 
Grant 'W}rdiff junior Zahm Hall Feb. 17 

University not in the wrong 
" 
Tom O'Neil's column featured on Feb. 16 titled "How Notre Dame sneakily killed oft' the Queer Film Festival" not only contains a poorly formed argument but also unfairly besmirches our univer­sity. Referring to Notre Dame as "a most unchristian institution that officially · practices prejudice" is absolutely ridicu­lous and unjustifiable. 
Mr. O'Neil's futile attempts to justify his conclusion include a single quotation from our school's president which in no way directly refers to homosexuality or promoting prejudice. Additionally the remaining premises for his argument, which pertain to the name changing of the film event, are completely reason­able objections that the University had and do not, in any shape or form, show that Notre Dame promotes prejudice. Perhaps Mr. O'Neil needs a lesson in political correctness. The term "queer" is down right offensive. I was also taught that the words "gay" and "lesbian" can also be offensive. In the 21st century, a long time since Mr. O'Neil worked for The Observer, the politically correct term for the gender would be homosex­ual. 
The University has absolutely nothing to apologize for. On the contrary to Mr. O'Neil's unsound argument, Notre Dame actually seems to be a very welcoming place to all different walks of life. Just this year I, along with every other fresh­men, was required to attend a forum on accepting people of varying sexual ori­entations. Not only was the event very informative but it also offered the oppor­tunity for us to discuss our own experi­ences and feelings concerning the topic. From speaking to my friends, who go to other colleges and universities, this seems to be a program unique to Notre Dame. Notre Dame clearly does not pro­mote nor practice prejudice but instead creates informed students in a politically correct atmosphere as Fr. Hesburgh and Fr. Jenkins strive for. 
Tom Carnevale freshman Dillon Hall Feb. 16 

Why don't we date? 
Sometimes after a long night of sharing pitchers of cheep beer with friends and dancing to a predictable mixture of current pop and 80s songs; I have the strange desire to Google search whatever is on my mind. I have found search results displayed on my computer to everything from "I hate my phone" to "why does my arm hurt?" The reason I decide to Google these things at 3:30 a.m. is beyond my comprehension, but it is always inter­esting to soberly explore the results the next day. 
Saturday morning I woke up to a Google search for Valentine's Day. Along with the expected description of its Roman/Christian/Hallmark origin, I found an interesting New York Times essay competition from last year for submissions from college students on the topic of modern love. After read­ing the wining essays. I started to contemplate my past Valentine's Days (frosting dining haJI cookies with friends, late night confusing IMs, and losing my purse at Fever} and realized that my experiences were not that dif­ferent from those of most other col­
everyone is searching for love and companionship, everyone also views relationships and dating as a much too serious form of romantic expres­sion. I always thought that people at Notre Dame didn't date for fear that they would end up married, but maybe it's just a nod at our genera­tion. It's much easier to hook up and hang out, than actually put in the time and effort to date and fall in love; just as it is much easier to search on the internet than actually read a book from the library. This is not to say, however, that the college generation doesn't date, but it does generally seem that our interpretation of "the relationship" is much different from those of the past. I have often heard people saying "she was cool until she got a boyfriend" or "he never goes out now because of his girlfriend." Since when did the idea of wanting to share love and closeness with a person become a bad thing? I'm not advocating for a change, I actually think it's quite liberating to not have to worry about finding a guy to date. l am only commenting on the 
Bored yet? Submit a Letter to the Editor www.ndsmcobserver.com 

lege students. evolution of our society and what, if 
I previously thought that attending a anything, it could possibly mean for conservative Catholic school, with the future. notoriously bad gender relations and a fear of anything overtly sexual, Erika Tomei would somehow cloud my ideas of 
SCI110r 

modern romance, but I was most defi­otf.campus nitely wrong. It turns out that while Feh. 15 
THE OBSERVER 
E

page 12 


Wednesday, February 18, 2009 Wednesday, February 18, 2009 

•. 
. . ., 

One tip: Arrive earlier in the day when Some other highlights include: 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
possible, as live music on most weekendsJohn Candy. 
Scene Editor
By DECLAN SULLIVAN will often invite a larger crowd on Friday Trios Restaurant and Jazz Club (129 N
Secqnd City gained national 

Scene Writer To all you juniors whose parents will be and Saturday nights. Michigan St, South Bend)
renown as a kind of training 

visiting campus this weekend, take heart: Open for both lunch and dinner, Trio'sIf vou think Mom and Dad are ground for many of the initial There are dining options for you and your The Emporium (121 5. Niles Avenue, offers a sophisticated atmosphere forready for a night of gut-busting and subsequent cast members of 
guests beyond solely North and South. South Bend) those looking to experience a different
laughter, Washington Hall will be "Saturday Night Live." Among While football weekend brunches are fren­While arguably the best time to check kind of night out. Highlights from the din:.

bursting at the seams with top­the slew of high-profile alumni of zied and fun, it's worthwhile to show Morn out the Emporium, situated along the St. ner menu include chicken Saltimbocca,notch comedy when the Student Second City, including both the and Dad more of South Bend than Angela Joe River, is during warmer weather, blackened beef tenderloin medallions, andUnion Board hosts The Second Toronto and Chicago enseJ:llbles, and Edison, especially when you're look­when a! fresco dining. won't give you and St. Louis-style barbecue pork ribs.

City this Friday night. to reach the stage of "SNL" are ing for places to eat. . your parents frostbite, the Also, this weekend's scheduled jazz per­The Second City comedy troupe the Belushi brothers, Bill The range of restaurants restaurant is still a viable formances at Trio's include the Billy Nicks 

is a legendary ensemble based Murray, Dan Aykroyd, Mike 

primarily in the Windy City. The Myers, Tina Fey and Chris in the South Bend -Ifyou find yourselves option for you to check out Quartet, a traditional jazz organ combo group began in the 1950s in Farley. Mishawaka area is impres­hunting for other this weekend. The scheduled for Friday, and the Chris Greene Chicago, when several University The Second City's strengths lie sive, and different dining Emporium's historic setting Quartet, a jazz combo headlfning on
dining options. let 

of Chicago students interested in in more than simply its actors establishments will. vary in was actually a tavern more Saturday. comedy and theater first created and writers, however. The group terms of price. Some are Scene be your guide to than a century ago, and the Note: the Trio's Web site can take reser­their own brand of also has inspired definitely student wallet­a few local restaurants building itself was eventual­vations for dinner. · 
friendly, such as Fiddler's ly restored and refinishedimprovisational come­much of the writing
The Second City that you and your
Hearth on North Main to its current condition. Macri's Italian Bakery & Restaurant and 
dy. Throughout the and directorial tal­
Comedy Troupe

group's more than ent that has pro­Street. Others, like parents can enjoy. Much of the dinner menu Carmela's Restaurant (214 N. Niles Ave, five decades of histo­Tippecanoe on West at the Emporium is divided South Bend) 
duced some of
6:30 and 9:30 pm 

ry, it has released Hollywood's great Washington Street, are more likely to between seafood options and grilled steak Recently reviewed in The Observer,
Washington Hall 

necessitate Mom or Dad's wallet instead. If entrees. Seafood choices include shrimp Macri's offers its customers a fun, casual
multiple comedic comedies of the past
Tickets: $10, $7 for 

recordings, produced forty years. you find yourselves hunting for other din­ternpura, sauteed walleye and tilapia dining experience. Options include tradi­
students 

films, traveled on Examples include ing options, let Scene be your guide to a Oscar, served with the traditional prepara­tional savory Italian items, deli sandwich­national tours and few local restaurants that you and your tion of Alaskan king crab, asparagus and a . es, salads, and a variety of baked goods
"Animal House," 

performed for sold-out audi­"Caddyshack," "Ghostbusters," parents can enjoy. bearnaise sauce. Prices generally range and Italian pastries. First time and return­ences. The troupe has expanded "Groundhog Day" and from $10 to $20 for the menu's main ing visitors should try the Italian Grinder to several cities since its incep­"Anchorman." Toss in the voice Fiddler's Hearth (127 N. Main, South entrees. Other options include pasta dish­and Sicilian Turkey sandwiches, two of the tion, including Los Angeles. of Horner Simpson (Dan Bend) es, combination plates and a lower-priced menu's most popular items. However, its primary and best­Castellaneta), a few Academy Fiddler's is, first and foremost, one of "Casual Side" menu with such items as Carmela's is a somewhat more upscale known groups remain in Chicago Award and Emrny-winning the best Irish pubs in town. The decor of salads, pitas and kabobs. bistro attached to Macri's, featuring its and Toronto. actors, and the stars of two of the place alone lends it a homey, old coun­A note to students: watch Scene for an own menu of traditional and new Italian 
The format of a typical Second the most highly rated shows otJ. try·feel, with Guinness advertisements and upcoming review of the Emporium. classics. • City show has remained constant television today -Steve Carrell, images of hometown people and places on Note: Making a reservation at Carmela's since the 1950s. The first half of from "The Office," and Stephen the walls. On the subject of Guinness and Tippecanoe Place Restaurant (620 E. is recommended, but there's no need to the program consists of scripted Colbert, from "The Colbert all its friends, the bar and drink menu Washington Street, South Bend) call ahead to Macri's itself. and half-improvised scenes, Report" -and the reputation is include an impressive number of Irish, If you land a reservation at Tippecanoe, while the second showcases fully definitively well earned. English and Scottish ales and brews. The you and your parents will really be in for a Lula's Cafe (1631 Edison Rd, South improvised scenes based on The Second City Touring pub also offers a full soft drink menu for treat. The building itself is a beautiful old Bend) audience suggestions -think Company will be performing two patrons who aren't quite oflegal age. mansion built by non~ other than Clem Also recently reviewed in The Observer, "Whose Line is it Anyway?" shows in Washington Hall on While dining may not seem like your Stt~debaker himself in 1889, and the menu Lula's is a fun, funky coffeehouse-style din­Another staple of the Second City Friday, at 6:30 and 9:30. The first priority when heading out to a pub, is equally high-end and traditional. ing experience. Students looking to grab a formula is live, improvised music show is a special engagement for rest assured that the menu at Fiddler's The dining options at Tippecanoe range quick, casual bite to eat with Mom and Dad that accompanies the sketches. students and their parents visit­does not disappoint. Options run from in price from $18 to $24 per entree, with would do well to bring the folks to Lula's, 
The Toronto-based group has ing during Junior Parents standard American pub fare like ham­the Lobster tail depending on market which is within easy walking distance of its own distinguished history. It Weekend. Tickets cost $7 dollars burgers, to more traditional Irish dishes, prices. Highlights on the menu include the Notre Dame campus. Highlights from eventually expanded to a sketch­for students and $10 dollars for including the Molly Malone stew and the charbroiled lamb chops, served with c:ur­the menu include their hummus, served comedy show called "SCTV" the general public, and are avail­menu's various types of boxty, a.k.a. ried bell peppers and onions; their "House with warm pita and blue corn chips; the ("Second City Television") that able at the LaFortune Box office. Ireland's pseudo-equivalent to savory Specialty," the prime rib of beef, with the menu's varied soups and sandwiches; and was broadcast in Canada from With the pedigree behind the crepes that deserve praise in their own Classic, Traditional and Studebaker cuts the new Lagniappe menu, with several 1976-1984. The program went Second City, tickets are sure to right. If you're in the mood to be adventur­made available; roasted Indiana duckling, wrap and salad options. on to win several awards for sell quickly. ous, get Mom or Dad to order a plate of served with a sauce of raspberries and broadcasting, while also launch­curry fries or a Ploughman's Lunch-the dried cherries; and charbroiled Ahi tuna, ing the careers of such actors as Contact Declan Sullivan at dsul­smell of the cheeses alone is worth its low topped with a basil pesto. Harold Hamis, Gilda Radner and liv9@nd.edu price. Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
-~ 


THE OBSERVER 


E page 13 


By EMILY LeSTRANGE 
Scene Writer 
This Saturday, parents of the Class of 2010 can treat their ears to the exciting sounds of the Notre Dame Concert and Jazz Bands at the groups' annual performance during Junior Parente; Weekend (JPW). 
Several accomplished conductors helped prepare over two hundred musicians for the upcoming perform­ance, including Alison Thigpen, one of the Assistant Band Directors and a Co-Conductor of the Symphonic Band. Composed of the collective efforl<i-ofthe New Orleans Jazz band, the Symphonic Band and the Symphonic Winds, the program promises to be an excellent way for both studentc; and parents to experi­ence the exceptional musical talent Notre Dame has to offer. 
"[JPW] is a great opportunity for the parents of juniors to see their son or daughter perform in the band," Thigpen said. 
This year's show, "Around the World with the Notre Dame Band," includes musical pieces hailing from various foreign countries. The night's musical numbers will include works from "Italy, Spain, Ireland and America, with of course some Notre Dame favorites," Thigpen said. Specific pieces include Rossini's 

· "William Tell Overture" and jazz tunes by Duke Ellington and Herbie Hancock. Thigpen promised that the Symphonic Winds p.nd Symphonic Band will combine to perform "sev­eral pieces together," including a number with the Notre Dame Trombone Choir. The performance concludes with combined musical chorus of the Notre Dame Victory March, bound to be a pleaser for students and alumni. Thigpen encouraged audience members to look out for junior trum­pet soloist Andrew Thomas as he takes the lead in "La Virgen de Ia Macarena." Other notable soloists to watch for will include trumpet play­ers Dave Condon and Tony Pawlicki, trombonist Anthony Parrish and bass trombonist Noah Franske. In addition to the concert this Saturday evening, the Symphonic 
Band and-Symphonic Winds will be 
performing in their annual spring 
concert on April 19. On Thursday, 
Feb. 26, the New Orleans Jazz Band 
will perform at the 51st annual 
Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
Undoubtedly, the performance of 
the Symphonic Winds, Symphonic 
Band and Jazz Band is certainly a 
show bound to impress and entertain 
audience members this Junior 
Parent"i Weekend. 
The annual Junior Parents 
Weekend concert is but one example 
of the impressive history of concert 
perfonnance at the University. 
"In addition to having one of the finest collegiate marching bands ... Notre Dame has a long and rich tra­dition of concert performance," Thigpen said. 
Over 200 students participate in the three fall and three spring per­formances each year. Although the bands have traditionally been show­cased in Wa<>hington Hall, they have found a new home in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) since it first opened in 2004. 
In addition to on-campus perform­ances, the Symphonic Winds and Symphonic Band tours various parts of the country in the springtime, including Chicago, Detroit and Pittsburgh. This year, the musicians will be making a trip to Canada. In the past, Notre Dame musicians have been fortunate enough to visit vari­ous countries overseas, inc1uding Ireland, Sweden, Austria and England. 
One of the ensemble's most high­profile tours in recent years was their trip to China and Japan in the sum­mer of 2008. The Concert Bands per­formed several pieces, including orig­inal compositions written by Dr. Kenneth Dye in honor of the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics. 
This year's Notre Dame Concert and Jazz Bands Junior Parents Weekend Concert will be held Saturday at 2 p.m. in the Leighton Hall of DPAC. Tickets are $5 for gen­eral admission and faculty and $3 for students. Visit performingarts.nd.edu for more information. 
Contact Emily Lestrange at elestran@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Dear defeats Cure in three round split decision upset 
Lorenz advances to semifinals with technical knockout over Hockett in first round as he tries to defend his 2008 title 
By MOLLY SAMMON, 
DOUGLAS FARMER, CHRIS 
MASOUD, ALEX WEST, and 
JAMES MICHALSKI 
Sports Writers 
• 

170 Pounds 
Matt "The Abominable Snowman" Paletta def. Joe Langenfeld 
Paletta started the first round early with a combo to the head of Langenfeld. While Langenfeld tried to counter, Paletta continued to pummel him with an effective left hook. 
Early in the second round, Langenfeld landed a combo that knocked Paletta off his feet. Paletta responded by landing a combo, followed by a powerful right hook. 
Paletta capped off his per­formance in the third round with a big combo that put Langenfeld on the defensive for the rest of the fight. Paletta won in a unanimous decision. 
Bernardo Garcia def. VIncent Keneally 
Keneally started the first round by landing three right jabs to Garcia's head. Garcia matched Keneally's jabs with a few of his own before landing a combo to Keneally's head and body. 
Garcia capped off the first round with a right hook just before the round ended. Garcia took complete control of the bout with several com­bos in the second round and sealed it with an uppercut to Keneally's jaw at the end of the round. 
Trying to be offensive at the start of the third round, Keneally left himself open to Garcia's blows after a failed combo attempt. Garcia won in a unanimous decision. 
Andres Villalba def. Michael Urciuoli 
Urciuoli chased the senior captain against the ropes in the opening seconds, but Villalba's quickness helped get him out of trouble. 
The fight continued to be one of aggression, as Villalba con­nected on several powerful combos in the second. 
The referees called for a quick break due to an appar­ent eye injury to Villalba, who came back a different boxer after a few moments in his corner. Villalba's relentless attacks on Urciuoli's stomach prevented the sophomore from maintaining any stability. 
Urciuoli almost got Villalba against the ropes late but was fatigued and couldn't do much damage before the judges awarded Villalba the unani­mous victory. 
Alex Kissinger def. Scott Jarvie 
Kissinger's powerful right hook sent his opponent to the floor midway through the first round. Jarvie got back up and went on the offensive, but Kissinger was able to dodge several combos near the ropes. 
In the second, Kissinger again used his quickness to avoid the few attacks Jarvie was able to mount, and after a few more right combos, Kissinger sent Jarvie to the mat again. 
Kissinger dominated the third round en route to a unanimous victory. 
175 Pounds 
Jim Hasson def. Joe Hagmann 
Hagmann began the match with a quick left jab to Hasson, but Hasson responded with a right hand of his own. 
Late in the second round, Hasson took control of the match by landing a series of combos to Hagmann's head, causing his headgear to mal­function. The headgear plagued Hagmann for much of the third round, and it caused the officials to momentarily stop the match. 
Hasson landed combos against Hagmann with little resistance in the end to win by a unanimous decision. 
Mike Doran def. Joseph "Money" Meares 
From the start of this bout, Doran's advantage in reach made itself evident, as he used it to exploit Meares' attacks throughout the round. Yet nei­ther fighter fazed the other in the opening round. 
Meares came out aggressive in the second round, blowing past Doran's long arms with multiple attacks. Doran was taken aback after three strong right hooks from Meares. 
As the fight neared its con­clusion, the effort to get past Doran's reach wore Meares out. Before long, Doran had bloodied Meares' nose with repeated jabs. When the final bell sounded, Doran received a unanimous decision. 
Bill Straccia def. Pat "Stonewall" Jackson 
Straccia was patient in the opening rounds before making his move, but sealed his unani­mous victory with a strong third round. · 
Both fighters waited for their opportunity in the first round, searching for an opening to make a connection. Neither fighter took an early lead, but Straccia's hard right hook won him some points in round one. 
In the first two rounds, Straccia was trying to land com­binations, as Jackson settled for scoring points with his jab. Jackson conhected on more punches in the second round. 
Straccia came out hard in the third round, connecting on his devastating combinations and forcing Jackson to slow the pace of the fight. Straccia was con­stantly on the offensive, moving Jackson against the ropes, which boosted him to the victo­ry. 
Mike Lee def. Dominic Golab 
The first round was evenly­matched, with each boxer able to land a few combos while avoiding any major damaging blows. 
In the second, Lee used his patented double-jab combo to wear down Golab while scoring valuable points. Golab landed a few powerful compos, but Lee finished the round with a mas­sive right uppercut and an effective left hook. 
Lee's combinations proved effective again in the third round of his unanimous victory. 
185 Pounds 
Rafael Diaz def. Brian O'Connor 
In a close match, Diaz used his aggressiveness and quick­ness to defeat O'Connor. 
Diaz started out on the offen­sive early in the first round, ini­tiating each set of blows. Neither fighter dominated the round, but Diaz connected on many solid combinations with his powerful right hand. 
Diaz took a different approach in the second round. His reflex­es allowed him to wait for O'Connor to make the move before delivering quicJ<. coun­ters. O'Connor sealed his victory in the third round, using jabs to defeat the fatigued O'Connor. 
Chris Hapak def. Dan "The Irishman" Murphy 
From the opening bell, the 

two fighters displayed contrast­ing styles. While Murphy would attack relentlessly, Hapak held back and let Murphy come to him. Murphy would work Hapak's body, while Hapak attacked Murphy's head. · In the second round, Hapak moved Murphy into the ropes, where he landed a number of body shots before Murphy could tie him up. Seconds before the bell, Hapak landed a strong left to Murphy's chin. 
Both fighters entered the third round throwing many punches, with little thought for defending themselves. As they tired, the two became tangled up and both fell to the canvas. In a close bout, Hapak took the split decision. 
John "The Boogie-Woogie Monster" Tchoula def. Jordan Smith 
In the opening exchange, Tchoula landed a right hook to Smith's head, and Tchoula never looked back. By the end of the round, Tchoula used a series of left jabs to set up his right hook. 
Tchoula's right hook dropped Smith into the ropes early and 
, left him with a bloody nose early in the second round. The fight was paused once more after a yicious right uppercut left Smith dazed. Smith charged out of his cor­ner in the third round, but Tchoula evaded the comeback attempt, and by the end of the round Smith was staggering backwards from Tchoula jabs. Tchoula earned a unanimous victory. 
Leo Rublnkowskl def. Ted Grossetreuer In a walkover. 
200 Pounds 
Andrew Lorenz def. Kiel "The Big Kielbasa" Hockett 
In a match that did not make it past the first round, Lorenz, a defending champion, came out victorious after a dominating performance that resulted in a win by technical knockout. 
Lorenz used his stature to his advantage by pounding the body of Hockett, forcing the under­matched fighter to leave his face open to more devastating blows. The referee stopped the match with 25 seconds left in the first round, as it was clear that Hockett could do nothing to defend himself against the pow­erful combinations thrown by Lorenz, who looks ready to 
claim his second consecutive title. 
Bart Dear def. Dex Cure 
In one of the closest matches of the night, Dear used tech­nique and quickness to pull the upset against the favored Cure. Dear danced around the ring, waiting for Cure to make his move, before countering with consistent jabs and more sub­stantial blows. Constantly on the defensive until he saw an oppor­tunity to attack, Dear connected on more punches than Cure. 
Cure continued to attack, but could do nothing about the tech­nical precision employed by Dear. Using a string of body shots which evolved into more forceful blows the face, Cure's aggressiveness paid off in the third round and he seemed to control the round. His third round performance was not enough, however, and the judges ruled Dear victorious by split decision. 
Benford Begay def. Matt "There Will Be Blood" Bono 
Frequent Begay combinations stopped Bono from finding his rhythm in this fight. Before the end of the first round, the com­bos had forced the referee to check on Bono before allowing the fight to continue. 
The second round opened as the first concluded, with Begay's mixture of jabs, hooks, and upper cuts leaving Bono lead­footed. Forty seconds into the round, the referee stopped the bout and awarded Begay the victory. 
Patrick "Third-Degree" Burns def. Matt Gray 
The fighters spent the majori­ty of the first round feeling each other out, only occasionally throwing jabs. Towards the end of the round, Burns landed two right hooks to Gray's head. 
Gray began the second round aggressively, but Burns contin­ued to land more punches. After Burns placed two three-punch combinations against the side of Gray's head, Gray staggered to the end of the round. 
The referee stopped the fight after the second round, and awarded Burns the victory. 
Contact Molly Sammon at 
msammon@nd.edu, Douglas 
Farmer at dfarmer@nd.edu, 
Chris Masoud at 
cmasoud@nd.edu, Alex West at 
awest@hcc-nd.edu, and James 
Michalski at jmichals@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.rh. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Ring of 4 keys found in the melting snow piled up near Main Circle. Contact Michael at 574-309­5854. 
FoR SALE 
609 N. Ironwood-$149,900­OPEN HOUSE (February 22, Sunday 1-4PM). Near Notre Dame. Great for Students and visiting pro­fessors! Solid brick/stone ranch, 3bdrms, 1.5 baths and 1 ,844SF. For more info. pis. call Jan Lazzara (Cressy &Everett) 574-651-1665. 
FOR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? 
Now offering 1 0-month leases. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2­bdrm houses. $350/person. 
Call 574-876-6333. 
Houses for the 09-10 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETTE TOWNHOUSES. 
$350/PERSON. 3.4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTER­NET NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234·2436 OR WWW.KRAMER­HOUSES.COM 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574­876-3537. 

1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call 574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
House for rent. Very clean 3/4 br. 
1.5 bath, 21iving rooms and big backyard. Avail 09-10 school year. Affordable and very close to cam­pus. Call AJ@(440)463-5633. 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place. Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/10. CES Property Management 574-968-0112 CESOM.info 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant 
Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safe­ty/assistance·for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http:1/osa. nd. edulhealth­safety/assault/ 
Fruitcakes in the kitchen Fruitcakes on the street 
Struttin' naked through the cross walk In the middle of the week 
Half baked cookies in the oven 
Half baked people en the bus 
There's a little bit of fruitcake left in everyone of us 



Wednesday, February 18, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVE~ts WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Women's Basketball AP Rankings 
team record points 
1 Connecticut (45) "" 25·0 1125 2 Oklahoma 22·2 1080 3 Auburn 25·1 999 • 4 Stanford 20·4 979 5 Baylor 21·3 942 6 California 20·3 865 7 Duke 20·3 800 8 Louisville 23·3 794 9 Maryland 21·4 787 . 10 North Carolina 22·4 785 11 Florida St 21·5 665 12 Texas 19·5 652 13 Tennessee 18·6 538 14 TexasA&M 19·5 505 15 Florida 22-4 497 16 Kansas St. 20-3 408 17 Xavier 22-4 345 18 Vanderbilt 20·6 293 19 Pittsburgh 18·5 281 20 Ohio St. 20·5 276 21 Iowa Sl. 18·6 263 22 South Dako1a St. 24-2 . 200 23 Virginia 19-7 169 24. NOTRE DAME 17·6 130 25 Arizona St. 19·6 76 
Men' Indoor Track and Field 
Preseason Rankings 

team 
1 Arkansas 2 Arizona St. 
3 Oregon 4 TexasA&:M 5 Florida St 6 Florida 7 Texas 8 TexasTech 9 LSU 


1 0 Louisville 11 Georgia 12 BYU 13 Stanlord 14 South Carolina 15 UNI 16 Michigan 17 Kansas St. 18 Kentucky 19 Oklahoma 
20 Nebraska 
21 Baylor 


22 Arizona 23 UCLA 24 Tennessee 25 Missouri 
pofnts 
171 130 127 118 99 
92 

75 74 74 63 61 
58 
55 55 55 
55. 
53 
52 
50 
49 47 46 46 42 41 

MIAA Women's Basketball  
Standings  
...  
team  record  
1  Hope  13-1  
2  SAINT MARY'S  12-3  
3  Trine  9-6  
4  Calvin  8-6  
5  Albion  7-7  
6  Adrian  6-8  
7  Alma  6-8  
8  Olivet  3·11  
9  Kalamazoo  0-14  

around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
Providence at No. 7 Louisville 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Lakers at Warriors 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Alex Rodriguez read from sever­al sheets of crumpled paper, trying again to explain where he went wrong. "Amateur hour," he called it. 
The slugger who might someday become baseball's all-time home run king remembered more details about performance­enhancing drugs Tuesday, saying his cousin repeated­ly injected him from 2001­03 with a mysterious sub­stance from the Dominican Republic. 
"I didn't think they were steroids," the New York Yankees star said. Later, he admitted, "I knew we weren't taking Tic Tacs." 

Making his second public attempt to explain a 2003 positive drug test while with Texas, baseball's high­est-paid player described a clumsy scheme in which a cousin persuaded him to use "boli" -a substance he said the cousin obtained without a prescription and without consulting doctors or trainers. Rodriguez said the cousin, whom he wouldn't identity, told him it would cause a "dramatic energy boost." 
"It was really amateur hour. I mean, it was two guys," Rodriguez said. "We couldn't ask anyone. We didn't want to ask anyone." 
IN BRIEF Federer to miss Davis 
Cup, Dubai tournament 
Roger Federer pulled out of Switzerland's Davis Cup series against the United States next month and a tournament in Dubai next week because of a back problem that has bothered him since last year. 
The 13-time Grand Slam singles champion had announced in October he would play for his country against the U.S. team led by Andy Roddick in · Birmingham, Ala.. on March 6-8. It would have been the first time since 2004 that FQderer played in first­round Davis Cup matches. 
"As a precautionary measure, I will use the next few weeks to make sure 
. the back injury is fully rehabilitated and I am ready for the rest of the 2009 season," Federer said in a statement posted on his Web site Tuesday. 
He has not played a competitive match since Feb. 1, when he lost to top-ranked Rafael Nadal in five sets in the Australian Open final. 

Yet, when asked to explain why the secrecy if he didn't think it was an illegal substance, Rodriguez revealed he had a pretty good idea he was doing wrong. 
"Look, for a week here I've been looking at people to blame," he said, "and I keep looking at myself at the end of the day." 
His assembled team­mates gave him the eye, especially when he turned to them to apologize and offer thanks for their sup­port. 
Hodriguez paused for 37 seconds, searching for the right words. He looked side to side, blinked several times, bit his lip and took a sip of water. Only then did he finally look up to face captain Derek Jeter & Co. 
"Thank you." 
Jeter sat with his arms crossed, joined in the front row by Andy Pettitte, Mariano Rivera and Jorge Posada. More than 20 play­ers in all were there, along with manager Joe Girardi, general manager Brian Cashman and co-chairman Hank Steinbrenner. 
Posada left during the question-and-answer ses­sion as Rodriguez went into new details. Other players filed out when the news conference ended and quickly went to their cars without speaking with reporters . 

Trade sends Hornets' 
Chandler to Oklahoma City 
OKIAI IOMA CITY -All-Star point guard Chris Paul could knife his way into the lane, lob the ball up in the air and, almost without fail, Tyson Chandler would be there to slam it down with two hands. 
It was the signature move of New Orleans' thrilling young inside-oulc;ide tandem, with the two teaming up for more than 100 alley-oops last season during the Hornets' surprising run to the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference and a spot in the confer­ence semifinals. 
Now, the Hornet<; will have to find a new crowd-pleasing calling card . 
Chandler wac; dealt to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday in a trade that brings veterans Joe Smith and Chris Wilcox to the I Iornets and could giw New Orleans some cap room next season heading into the first year of Paul's new four-year, $6S million con­tract. Chandler is due to make about $12 million next sea.•;on. 
Jerry Jones sa_ys he has 
not (lecided TO's future 
AHLINGTON, Texas -Cowboys owner Jerry Jones went on and on Tuesday emphac;izing he hasn't decided whether to keep or cut Terrell Owens. 
Then, long after the subject was seemingly put to rest, Jones brought it up again -with a pretty obvious hint that T.O. ic; staying. 
"You and I both know that the one that you're asking about all the time, if I 'gave you the answer that you want to hear. then you would've already had it. So the faet you don't have it ought to tell you something. It really should," Jones said. 
The response carne in the final minute of a roughly 45-minute news conference called to announce that George Strait will headline the first-ever event at the team's new $1.1 billion sta­dium. But since thi" wa" the first time Jones addressed a large group of reporters since the Cowboys' season­ending loss at Philadelphia baek in late December, far more topi<~~ eame up. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Boilermakers embarrass No. 6 Spartans in Lafayette 
Booker leads Tigers as No. 13 Clemson outscores Maryland by 23 in the second half on the way to a 93~74 rout 
Associated Press  23 and caused Michigan State to call a timeout less than 2  
WEST LAfAYETTE, Ind.  - minutes into the second half.  
.JaJuan Johnson scored 17  A steal by Jackson led to  a  
points to lead No. 19 Purdue  dunk by Marcus Green that  
over No. 6 Michigan State 72­ made it 45-30 and caused  
54  on  Tuesday night  and  Michigan State to call another  
move the Boilermakers within  timeout, this time with 13:42  
one  game of the Spartans in  to play.  
the Big Ten standings.  The Spartans went on a 7-0  
E'Twaun Moore scored 13  run, highlighted by  a  three­ 
points and Hobbie Hummel  point  play  by  Draymond  
added 11 for Purdue in  his  Green, to trim the lead to 48­ 
first start since missing three  39. Purdue responded with  a  
games with  a  hairline frac­ 7-2 run, and Keaton. Grant's  
ture in his lower back. The  3-pointer  put  the  
Boilermakers (20-6, 9-4), who  Boilermakers up 55-41 with  
have five  games left,  won  just under 10 minutes left.  
their third straight.  The Boilermakers led by dou­ 
Kalin  Lucas  scor.ed  14  ble digits the rest of the way.  
points and Durrell Summers  Hummel hit two 3-pointers,  
added 11  for Michigan State  then got an  assist as Purdue  
(20-5, 10-3), which had won  took  a  15-7 lead 7 minutes  
I l I I , I I I  three in a row. The Spartans tied a season low for points. Michigan State had held its previous three opponents under 50 points, but the  into the game and the Boilermakers led 26-23 at halftime. Michigan State shot 2 7 percent in the first half, but forced 10 turnovers and  
Boilermakers shot 48 percent  grabbed  nine  offensive  tries to shoot in the first half of the Boilermakers' 73-54 win over the Spartans Tuesday.  
and scored their 50th point  rebounds.  
with  nearly  11  minutes  Terrene~  Oglesby  led  made  two  free throws and  to feed off Booker, whose one­ 
remaining.  Clemson 93, Maryland 74  Clemson with 16 points and  K.C. Rivers had a steal and a  handed slam putback  on  a  
The  Boilermakers,  who  Trevor  Booker  had  11  Demontez Stitt added 15. Six  dunk with 2 seconds left to  missed 3 by Oglesby early in  
entered the game ranked sec­ points and 14 rebounds to  cfigers scored in double fig-.  put them ahead 34-28 at half­ the second half set the tone.  


ond nationally in field goal lead No. 13 Clemson to a vic­ures. percentage defense, limited tory over Maryland on Landon Milbourne scored the Spartans to 33 percent Tuesday night. 13 points and Greivis Vasquez 
· shooting. The Tigers (21-4, 7-4 added 12 for the Terrapins The rematch will be at Atlantic Coast Conference) (16-9, 5-6), who could be on Michigan State on March 8, bounced back from a puzzling their way to missing the the season finale for both loss to Virginia two days ear­NCAA tournament for the teams. lier with their second confer­fourth time in five years. Purdue opened the second ence win of 27 points or more Clemson never trailed after half on a 7-0 run. A steal and this season. In their previous the first 6 minutes of the layup by Chris Kramer, a foul 55 ACC seasons, the Tigers game, and went on a 43-17 line jumper by Lewis Jackson have beaten a league team by run that started from the last and a 3-pointer by Moore that ma-ny points just eight minute of the first half. With bumped Purdue's lead to 33-times. · the Tigers up two, Oglesby 
NBA 
Chandler dealt to Thunder 
depth, leadership and expe­1995 draft, has been fighting
Associated Press 
rience by making this trade," through injury issues of his 
OKLAHOMA CITY -All­Hornets general manager own. A balky left knee kept Star point guard Chris Paul Jeff Bower said in a state­him ·out of the Thunder's eould knife his way into the ment. "We felt we needed to lineup for nearly a month lane, lob the ball up in the increase our overall play of before he returned to play in air and, almost without fail, the front line and Chris four of the last five games Tyson Chandler would be Wilcox is a young, athletic before the All-Star break. He there to slam it down with player..J:hat can score and fit has averaged 6.6 points and two hands. well in our system. We will 4.5 rebounds in 36 games. 
It was the signature move be able to take advantage of The Hornets and Thunder of New Orleans' thrilling his athleticism and style of were to play Tuesday night young inside-outside tan­play. in Oklahoma City. dem, with the two teaming "Joe provides us with much Chandler, who played one up for more than 100 alley­needed depth and someone season in Oklahoma City oops last season during the who can be an integral part during the Hornets' tempo­Hornets' surprising run to of our rotation." rary relocation after the No. 2 seed in the Chandler's numbers had Hurricane Katrina, brings Western Conference and a dropped off even before he the franchise a proven talent spot in the conference semi­missed the Hornets' last 12 inside after it tried for years finals. games with a sprained left to draft and develop a front­
Now, the Hornets will have ankle. He's averaging 8.8 line center. The former to find a new crowd-pleasing points and 8.3 rebounds this Seattle SuperSonics used calling card. season, after going for 11.8 first-round picks on Robert 
Chandler was dealt to the points and 11.8 rebounds Swift, Mouhamed Sene and Oklahoma City Thunder on per game last season. Johan Petro in recent years Tuesday in a trade that Wilcox's averages of 8.4 and have another 7-footer brings veterans Joe Smith points and 5.3 rebounds fell developing overseas in last and Chris Wilcox to the off, along with his playing year's 20th overall pick, 
Hornets and could give New time, since the Thunder Serge lbaka. Orleans some cap room next signed restricted free agent "We are excited to add a season heading into the first Nenad Krstic on Dec. 30. He young, defensive-minded big 
year of Paul's new four-year, had a season-high 23 points man that we feel can help us $68 million contract. on New Year's Eve, before now and in the future," 
New Orleans also got the Krstic got into the rotation, Thunder general manager rights to De Von Hardin, a but saw his time on the court Sam Presti said in a state­second-round pick out of fall off to practically nothing ment. "Tyson has ties to the 
California in last year's draft. within a week. He played in Oklahoma City community who never signed with only one of Oklahoma City's and we are excited to have Oklahoma City. last five games. him with us as we continue "We were able to get great Smith, the No. 1 pick in the to build our organization." 

time. Then Booker began doing The run continued into the things big men aren't expect­second half with Clemson hit­ed to do. The junior stepped · ting tive 3s, Booker and Jeral out to bury a 3-pointer that Grant trading thunderous put Clemson ahead by 10 dunks and the Tigers scoring points about 4 minutes into on 11 of 12 possessions at the half. stole the ball from one point. Oglesby's layup behind to stop a Maryland with 9:30 to go ended a run of fast break less than a minute Clemson scoring on six later and threw a no-look straight possessions and the hook pass over his head to Tigers took a 73-45 lead. Rivers for a layup that put the 
Eight Tigers scored during Tigers up 24 with just over 10 the run, but the team seemed minutes to go. 
NFL Vick' s Atlanta home to be auctioned in March 
Vick's suspension, and the 
Associated Press 
Falcons said last week that they 
NEWPOHT NEWS, Va. will try to trade their contractu­Imprisoned NFL star Michael al rights to Vick to another Vick's suburban Atlanta home team. will be offered for sale to the Vick onc·e was the league's highest bidder on March 10. highest-paid player before his 
The j u d g e pres-iding o v e r indictment and guilty plea left Vick's Chapter 11 bankruptcy both his finances and his repu­case issued an order scheduling tation in tatters. He filed for the auction Tuesday. The order bankruptcy protectiol) in July, sets an opening bid of $3.2 mil­claiming assets of $16 million lion for the eight-bedroom and liabilities of $20.4 million. home in a gated community in Vick previously listed the Duluth, Ga. Duluth home for $4.5 million. 
The auction will be held in and the price later was reduced either Atlanta or Gwinnett to $4.1 million. Michael County, upon agreement by Blumenthal, one of Vick's attor­Vick and the committee repre­neys, told U.S. Bankruptcy senting his creditors. Judge frank Santoro last 
Vick is serving a 23-month month that the property had prison sentence at the federal been shown to about 30 poten­penitentiary in Leavenworth, tial buyers and that a dPal to Kan., for his role in a dogfight­sell the home for $3.15 million ing conspiracy. His lawyers collapsed at the last minute. have said he could be trans­Funari Healty, the company ferred soon to a halfway house marketing the property, 
in Newport News, his home­described it in an Internet list­town. Vick is scheduled to be ing as a "stunning custom home released from federal custody with priceless lake views." It July 20. features a majestic, two-story 
The suspended Atlanta foyer with a double curved Falcons quarterback has said in staircase. Other amenities court papers that he expects to include an in-home theater, a resume his NFL career after his workout room with sauna, an release. However, NFL elevator, a full bar, two outdoor Commissioner Hoger Goodell fireplaces and a four-car has not said whether he will lift garage. 
\ 

Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

.. . 
•••••••• ····-.;•,••,• .".. ,,,-,,, ••••• • •••• •• .·.-.··~W.,v.·.·,·.•,,•;";,".",','-'-'-':·:·. -:.:..;.· n·.·-···-·.··~·-·········•,•~.....-..-..··•· • .....-.....-.·.·..·.·.·-.-.v-.--~----­
..···: ...-..-~---·-· 
,Fe&ttt;tYbV\10 · ..···.· ..··. ~~-······.w.·· ··-·-· · · 
· ~H1e ep~soGte · · · " ·· ·c~tatt.s/~~ 
...-.·.·:·····---;--~ 
· A't;,,13 ..· 'lOviN· e .. 
.. . . . · .. "~eN "'
... .. . 
,:,.: 
.<' )!teYe w&~s ~o spq~e to ~~00J~--· '~. . ·-·····--·-······ . .....-M~cltliA_eL Spott 
Fe~t~.<.nll\,g... · ··~ ­... . . ·r.;;:~· '6iLee~· ~~t~ott~~g~ "P[Y.ectoy.~of ~e~aet=· st~cx[es···P~og r~ V\A, 
·-· DY.-AgL<.StL"'--F~VI-tes, PYofeSSot'" ofA-""t~Yopt>L00~ ~~-·-·········· ..--·······-···· -·-· .......... ~~-" ....,.................... . 
•,....-...-'"~--·'"....,..,-·~-~'""""~~······it-·· t:>~~ M. c~t~lee~ K.Qve""iJ~~~P.-MurpVltj-Fou~~tto""-p;::ofessov of"i.Aw··­
.Dr-J~~VI-c. C~v~d~l'll,. c~~~r-of TV!eoLogkj De-p~rtl'lite~t Dr.. Mt:tr-~ <:;tA.~ttj, PYofeSsoy of socLotogt1 
. ,... . ... . .
--~.. ~ ~ 
·Co-Sponsors · .,.. ·· ···· 

Ib~Qiogy f)cpartm~nt~ $Q<;io1qgy D~P:lrt:m~m~G~nder S.tudj~$.Hcmor Socie.ty, Gender Rehllign~.(ef1ler,.CQRE (PIJlWil. Boehnen Fund tor Excellence in Gender Studies. Progressive Student's Alliance, Gender Studies Program
. ~ ~ 

Ii I 
I 
page 18

I 
MLB 
Aching Braves close to deal with Griffey 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -The Atlanta Braves tried to dose a deal with Ken Griffey Jr. on Tuesday, hoping the aging slugger who ranks fifth on baseball's career homer list can bolster an outfield that produced the fewest long balls in the majors last season. 
The 39-year-old Griffey is clearly past his prime, but his 2008 numbers -a .249 aver­age, 18 homers and 71 RBis -were more productive than any of Atlanta's outfielders. 
With right fielder Jeff Francoeur having a miserable season and no one able to win full-time jobs in center and left, the Braves got only 27 homers from those three spots. 
Griffey had narrowed his search for a new home to Seattle, where he starred from 1989-99, and the Braves, a team his father played for in the 1980s and long on Junior's wish list. 
Atlanta third baseman Chipper Jones said he's talked with Griffey by phone, hoping to persuade him to sign with the Braves. 
"Certainly all signs point to this being a good fit for him," Jones said after a spring training workout. "He's want­ed to play here for a long time. Now he gets his opportu­nity. We 'Jl see if he follows through." 
There were conflicting media reports on Griffey's sta­tus, with one saying he had already chosen to play for the Braves and was merely trying to hammer out the details on a contract that would guaran­tee him about $2 million, with


• 
a chance to earn more through incentives. 
But his agent, Brian Goldberg, told The Associated Press in a text message 

I I Thursday afternoon that no decision had been made, and Griffey himself told mlb.com
I that he was going back and forth on what to do. 
III'II "We are still kicking things 
) ' around with my family and have not made a decision," he said. "This is the first time in my career that I have been a free agent, and it's nerve­racking." 
He added that he hoped to 
decide by Wednesday morn­
ing, perhaps in time to report 
to the Braves for their first 
full-squad workout. Griffey 
lives in n~arby Orlando and 
signaled that Atlanta had the 
upper hand in the negotiations 
because he could be closer to 
his family, both in spring 
training and during the sea­
son. 
"You know how close I am to 
my wife and kids," he told 
mlb.com. 
Braves manager Bobby Cox 
said he would be thrilled to 
have Griffey on a team that's 
trying to bounce back from its 
worst season since 1990. 
Atlanta went 72-90 and fin­
ished fourth in the NL East, 20 
games behind the World 
Series champion Philadelphia 
Phillics. 
"Two years ago, he hit 30 
homers," Cox pointed out. 
The Mariners have declined 
to discuss their efforts to 
bring Griffey back to his origi­
nal team. He split last season 
between the Cincinnati Reds 
and Chicago White Sox before 
becoming a free agent. 
When Seattle manager Don 
Wakamatsu was asked about 
Griffey on Tuesday at the 
team's spring training com­
plex in Peoria, Ariz., he 
cupped his ear and jokingly 
pretended he couldn't hear. 
"What? What was that?" 
Wakamatsu said. 
The rookie manager stuck 
with his plan to block uut any 
talk about Griffey, saying he'll 
work with whatever players 
management provides. 
"I just spent the last 2, 2 1/2 hours dealing with what J'm dealing with here," Wakamatsu said after a work­.out for pitchers and catchers. 
"And I'm happy with that." 
The Braves were more open 
about their desire to sign 
Griffey. Jones said he would 
love to have a guy with 611 
career homers hitting behind 
him. 
"If he wants to come here 
and be part of this, hit in the 
middle of the lineup and play 
a lot, it's a good spot for him," 
Jones said. "I would welcome 
him with open arms. I know 
that he's still Ken Griffey Jr. 
He's got some good baseball 
left in him." 

'·' f 
I' f ~ . 
1'\ 
I,
:; !'
1, I, I. 
1.( 
I' 
I I
I, I' 
ti: 
I~! :~ 
'· 
't,• 


The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
NFL 

Jaguars release RB Taylor 
Associated Press 

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. ­Running back Fred Taylor wanted to end his career in Jacksonville, hoping to join the small list of standout players who spent an entire career with the same team. He won't get the chance. 
The Jaguars released Taylor on Monday, parting ways with their all-time leading rusher after 11 sea­sons and continuing the team's offseason makeover. 
Coach Jack Del Rio flew to Fort Lauderdale earlier Monday to meet with Taylor and deliver the news. Del Rio made it clear the team has no plans to re-sign Taylor, who turned 33 last month and was scheduled to make $6 million next sea­son. 
"We felt like the best thing for this football team is what it has to be about," Del Rio said. "We feel good about the talented group of backs that we have ... and as you work through it, it's difficult to come up with a role that's going to be acceptable for everybody. 
"It makes it awkward. It makes it difficult. We came to an agreement on what the best course of action was as a football team." 
And that was to move on without Taylor, who ranks 16th on the NFL's career rushing list with 11,271 yards, 81 behind John Riggins. 
Taylor has said he would like to retire after passing Jim Brown (12,312} on the career list. Brown, ager Gene Smith said. "We Chic ago's Walter Payton all respect and appreciate (16,726), Detroit's Barry what Fred has done, and we Sanders (15,269) and San feel that he can still play in Diego's LaDainian the NFL, but in our current Tomlinson (11,760) are the situation we believe this is only running backs ahead of the right move at this time." Taylor who spent their Taylor, the ninth overall entire careers with the pick in 1998 from Florida, same team. made his first Pro Bowl in 
Taylor was not available 2007 after running for for comment Monday. 1,202 yards and a career-
Releasing Taylor was no best 5.4 yards a carry. surprise since he had clear-The Jaguars had hoped to ly become the second option see the same production behind Maurice Jones-Drew. last season. But Taylor fin­But deciding to not even try ished with 556 yards on the to bring back the longtin1e ground and averaged a team captain was somewhat caryer-low 3.9 yards a carry shocking, especially since behind an injury-riddled the Jaguars endured chem-offensive line. It became istry issues last season after obvious -even to Taylor ­letting go of some veterans that the team needed to get and bringing in high-priced Jones-Drew involved more. free agents Jerry Porter and Taylor spent the final Drayton Florence. three games of the season 
The Jaguars released on injured reserve after Porter and Florence last tearing ligaments in his left week. They also parted thumb. ~ays with longtime person-Although Jacksonville nel chief James "Shaek" never gauged trade interest Harris, defensive coordina-in Taylor, Del Rio said he tor Gregg Williams, defen-believes he will get a shot sive backs coach Donnie with another club. Henderson and a few other "He's got some talent," assistants. Del Rio said. ''I'm sure there 
Taylor was next in line. .... is going to be some interest 
Del Rio said it was time to in him. I can't speak for turn the offense over to other teams. I know Fred's Jones-Drew, a 5-foot-7 done a great job taking care dynamo who has scored 40 of his body and has been a touchdowns in three years. complete stud in the time Former second-round pick we've been here. I've said Greg Jones also is expected that several times. He's to see more touches. been a good teammate, he's 
"This was a difficult deci-been a guy that's all about sion to come to, but a deci-winning and I've been sion that had to be made impressed with the way that despite how we all feel he's conducted himself since about Fred," general man-I've been here. 

Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WoMEN's SWIMMING 
No. 25 Irish head to Big East meet 
• 
conference ranked higher the

By MOLLY SAMMON Irish and could elicit some of 
Sporrs Writer 
the toughest competition of the weekend. 

Going for their 13th consecu­"The relays will be the most tive conference title, the No. 25 competitive events this week. Irish are taking a long week­Relays are a true test of depth end trip to the Indianapolis and teamwork," Kuhlke said. Natatorium for the Big East "They are always the most conference championship exciting events because they meet, a crucial event for many make a statement, especiallyof the competitors. on the first night of the meet The Irish have won 12 when we compete in the 800 
straight conference champi­freestyle relay and 200 medley onships. The first change for reiay." the girls in preparation for this Irish standout athletes to meet. as opposed to the regu­watch this weekend are sopho­lar seasonal meets, was imple­mores Katie Casey (200 fly) menting a different practice and Samantha Maxwell (200 strategy. breaststroke). Both are No. 1 
"Practices have been much seeds heading into the meet. more focused on the details," In the 2008 conference meet, sophomore Kellyh Kuhlke said. the team broke eight school "Everyone did things specifi­records. With the exception of cally for what they need to do one graduated teammate, to get ready for this week. We Caroline Johnson, last year's finally got some rest." team has not changed, which 
As every team from the Big gives much promise towards East will be represented in their goal of a 13th consecutive Indianapolis this weekend, this conference win, a flawle·ss is the event the girls have been record since 1997. 
preparing for since the sea­"I think all of our hard work son's start. Some of the most will pay off and we will come difficult competition for this out of the meet with our 13th 
weekend will be seen from straight Big East Conference other Big East powerhouses championship," Kuhlke said. such as Louisville. The Cardinals, ranked No. 23 in the Contact Molly Sammon at NCAA, are the _only team in the msammon@nd.edu 
..-,.r··
J 
. . 
• 

NFL 

Strait to play at Dallas opening 
ed message played Tuesday at Final Four. It also will he home
Associated Press 

the news conference announc­to college football's Cotton 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Since ing the show. Bowl. Elvis Presley and The Beatles Strait added that he's excited How many seats will be aren't available, Jerry Jones to be performing with available for the Strait con­had to settle for the guy who's McEntire. cert? That's still being deter­sold the third-most albums to "Our paths have passed mined based on how the stage headline the opening of the many times at many different is configured. But Jones said Dallas Cowboys' new $1.1 bil­places, but the opportunity to the floor alone might hold as lion stadium. do a show together like this many as 20,000. 
Country music star George has never presented itself," he "We'll have all the capacity Strait will have the honors on said. "It's something I've we need," he said, laughing. June 6, topping a bill that also looked forward to for a long, The first football game at the will include Reba McEntire, long time." new stadium will be a Cowboys Blake Shelton and Julianne The opening of this stadium preseason game. Jones said Hough from "Dancing With the would be a huge deal rega'rd­Dallas will play both its home Stars." less of the entertainment. • preseason games at the new 
"I have a lot of great memo­Jones' palace, funded mostly place, although the league ries from playing the many with his own money, features a hasn't set the date or opponent shows we did at the old sleek retractable roof, seating yet. The first game that counts Cowboys stadium, as well as capacity of 100,000 for foot­will be a college game, watching 'America's Team' ball, 300 luxury suites, and the between Oklahoma and win their share of Super largest HD video board ever Brigham Young on Labor Day. Bowls. I'm very excited about built-two of them, actually. Jones said there also might having the opportunity to be The stadium already has be a futbol game played in the the first concert ever in the secured the 2010 NBA All-Star stadium this summer -an magnificent new Cowboys sta­game, the 2011 Super Bowl international soccer game like­dium," Strait said in a record-and the 2014 NCAA men's ly to pit high-profile teams. 



Date: Friday February 2 7 Time: 9 pm 12 VVhere: Hagger ParlOur 
. 


Saint Marys College 
~.....:. .. _ 
....~ -----•-­

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
Devereaux 
continued from page 21 
Devereaux got Juarez into the cor­ner for some point-, near the end. He won a split decision. 
Mark Witte def. Adam Steinbach 
Witte took the offensive in the opening round, forcing Steinbach to retreat. Steinbach began to aim tor Witte's body, but Witte still did the most damage with mainly right-handed punches. 
Witte opened the second round with a combination. Steinbach kept his right hand back, hoping to find an opening to unleash it -but that chance never came. Witte's quick combos allowed him to take control and earn the unanimous decision. 
165 pounds 
Jack Peterson def. Brian "The Best Looking'' SaM 
In a fierce fight, Salvi took the early advantage by landing a big right hook on Peterson.· When Peterson tried to counter, Salvi wa.:; a.ble to land a few more solid combo shots. 
Peterson began to take back momentum, landing several jabs to Salvi's head in the second round. With the outcome still in doubt in the third round, Peterson started quick with a big right hand. 
Late in the third, Salvi landed a eombo, but he lefl himself open and allowed Peterson to counter with his mvn combo, leading to a split decision victory for Peterson. • 
Alex "Check Out These Chicken Legs" Duffy def. Paul Amiri 
DuffY made quick work of Amiri in just tWo round.:;. Duffy began the match with a series of combinations that caught Amiri off guard. 
Late in the first, DuffY landed a powerful combo to Arniri's head. It was more of the same in the second round as Duffy took control. Seconds into the round, Duffy land­Pd another combo that eventually led to a victory. 
Daniel Brennan def. Andrew 
Massari 
Locked in a stalemate of even 
punches for the majority of the first 
round, Brennan broke up the 
monotony with a right hook that 
threw Massari against the ropes a-, 
the round ended. 
In the second round, Massari 
came into the ring a bit more offen­
sive, but Brennan threw a few 
intense combos that tipped the 
match in his favor. 
In the third round, both boxers 
showed signs of dizzying, but 
Brennan took charge of the ring 
with a solid right hook that sent 
Ma<isari to the corner. 
Though Ma<;Sari came back in the 
ring refreshed, Brennan finished 
the match with a series of solid 
power combo throws, including a 
tough blow to Ma.:;sari's chin to end 
the round and the match. Brennan 
won in a split decision. 
Matt Hopke def. J. Barrick 
Bollman 
Just a few seconds in, Hopke 
nearly knocked over his freshman 
opponent by using his reach advan­
tage. A few combos later, Bolbnan 
fell to the ground for just a moment, 
but bounced back up. 
In the second round, Hopke almost cornered Bollman, but Bollman repeatedly dodged him. A'> . Bollman adopted the strategy of going for Hopke's stomach, Hopke responded with a combo before the end of the round.· Early in the third round, Hopke caught-Bollman by surprise with a right hook and a left 
jab. 
Hopke's lefl hook with a few sec­
onds rerpaining sealed the unani­
mous victory. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc­nd.edu, Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1 @nd.edu, Christopher Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu, Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu, Daniel Madden at dmadden@nd.edu and Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

ND's title defense begins 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
On Wednesday, Notre Dame will try to begin its title defense at the Big East cham­
, pionships at the Indiana University Natatorium on the campus of I UPUI in Indianapolis. The Irish seek their fourth Big East title overall since join­ing the conference before the 1995-96 season and fourth in the past five seasons. In addi­tion, Notre Dame has posted 11 consecutive top four finish­es at the meet. The Irish finished the dual meat season with a 7-6 record. but they enter the champi­onships riding a four-meet winning streak. The streak couldn't come at a better time for Irish, who are red-hot heading into one of their biggest meets of the year. "This is a championship meet for which we've been preparing since August," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "This is the show. Everybody is focused on it. We've had some very exciting practice's heading into the meet, and we're leaving 

campus full of excitement for what might happen." 
Although the Irish are hitting their stride as they travel to Indianapolis, they still have quite a bit of work to do to earn another Big East title. 
"The field is fast," coach Welsh said. "We know that there is a lot of work for us, hopefully in the preliminaries and in the finals, but we're certainly excited about our chances." · 
Over the past month, Notre Dame's divers have made sig­nificant contributions for the team, and their performance may be crucial to Notre Dame's success this weekend. Furthermore, the Irish swim­mers must continue to post season-best and personal-best times. 
"Diving will be very impor­tant to final team standings," Welsh said. "And I think if you are going to watch us over the weekend, you should take note of two things: Our qualifying positions in the preliminary heats in the morning and then the comparison between the entry time and the actual time. It's all about going fast for us. We know that if we go fast 
enough, we'll be in the right 
place and the scoreboard will 
count it right." 
Although the Irish don't have 
a top seed in any of the meet's 
events, they -experience and 
have many competitors who 
are capable of challenging for 
top honors in any given event. 
Notre Dame returns a number 
of athletes who have previous­
ly won titles at the event, as 
junior MacKenzie LeBlanc has 
two Big Ea~t titles to his name 
while junior Andrew Hoffman 
and sophomore Joshua Nosal 
each have one on their 
resumes. 
Furthermore, eight members 
of the current Notre Dame 
squad have garnered All-Big 
East honors at the meet during 
their careers, led by junior John Lytle, who ranks second . in Notre Dame history with 11 
all-conference honors. 
The Big East conference 
championships begin on 
Wednesday, and the four-day 
event will run until the Big 
East conference champion is 
crowned on Saturday in 
Indianapolis. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
NBA 

Knicks down Spurs in overtime 
weekend. 
Associated Press 

Robinson continued the best 
NEW YORK -If Nate stretch of his career with 32 Robinson keeps this up, he points and 10 rebounds won't need the slam dunk con­Tuesday night to lead the New test to earn a place at All-Star York Knicks to a 112-107 over­
time victory over the San Antonio Spurs. 
"Krypto-Nate" won his sec­ond slam dunk title Saturday night in Phmmix, but sounded lukewarm about the idea of defending his title next year. The way he's playing now, he could end up playing in the game in Dallas. 
"That's what I'm trying to get to, but for the most part we're just focused on the playoffs now," Robinson said. "Next year will come." 
Robinson made the go-ahead basket in his career-best third straight 30-point game. In the final game before heading to Phoenix to knock off Dwight Howard hopefully can help us gain some momentum," Knicks for­ward David Lee said. 
Lee had 13 points and 12 rebounds in his 17th consecu­tive double-double, tying 
Patrick Ewing for second­longest streak by a Knicks player since 1970. Jerry Lucas had 21 straight in 1972. 
Tim Duncan had 26 points and 15 rebounds for the Spurs, but fellow All-Star Tony Parker shot just 5-for-20 and finished with 14 for the Spurs. Roger Mason scored 20. 
"I was missing layups. I was missing everything tonight," said Parker, whose wife, Eva Longoria, was in the crowd to watch his miserable night. "(Nate) was making shots. He was the opposite of me." 
The Spurs were without Manu Ginobili, who was back 
in San Antonio 
getting further 
tests on his sore 
Start Your Career in Accounting. 


and win the ''/was missing right ankle. It's slam dunk con­not the same
layups, I was missing
test, he had 33 one the star points, a everything tonight., reserve had career-high 15 surgery on last assists, nine summer, forcing
Tony Parker 
rebounds and him to miss the
Spurs guard 
five steals in an first 12 games 
Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA for non-accounting maiors: 
• 
Earn two degret•s in just 15 rnonths. 

• 
C01nplete <!. J-n1onth paid residency at a leading accounting firm. 

• 
Proven track record of 100% job placement. 


Take the first step. 
Visit us online or at an inforn1alion session near you. Learn n1ore about the program and upcon1ing events at www.msarnba.neu.edu. 
. 617-373-3244 

Northeastern
gspa@neu.cdu 
U N v E R S T y
Vv"WW.msa1nba.neu.edu 

overtime loss to the Los Angeles Clippers -the first NBA player with 30 points plus those n urn hers since Magic Johnson in 1981. 
Chris Duhon and Wilson Chandler each scored 17 points for the Knicks, who snapped a six-game losing streak. They finally broke through against an NBA power, having dropped all three on a homestand against the Lakers, Cavaliers and Celtics in the first week of February. 
"The past four teams we played at home have been the best of the best, and to get this victory, start ofT the second half of the season L., big for us and 
of the season, but coach Gregg 
• Popovich acknowledged being concerned the pain didn't go away during the All-Star break. 
They fell to 3-3 on their eight-game rodeo road trip, with two stops remaining. They've never finished with a losing record on it since mov­ing to the AT&T Center in 2002. 
In a game that was close throughout, neither team led by more than three in the fourth quarter. Duncan had 13 points and made his first six shots in the period, but missed a potential winning bank shot just before time expired. 

Wednesday, February 1S. 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
nose to bleed. Bock wa.<> unable to regain hi'> form in the third round. 
Michael "The Silver City Slugger'' Sayles def. Kyle "Hops, Pops, Jones, Big Cheese" Blanco 
The match opened up slowly as 
both fighters tried to get a feel for 
each other. But as the first round 
closed, Sayles moved on the offen­
sive, landing a set of powerful jabs 
and hooks. 
Blanco adjusted, blocking some of 
Sayles quick punches with his long 
arms and quick reflexes. He began 
to show signs of fatigue in the sec­
ond round and Sayles took advan­
tage with his powerful left jab, forc­
ing a bloody nose. 
The third round was much like 
the second, as Sayles continued to 
dominate Blanco by pinning him on 
the ropes. Sayles' superior form 
and quickness were awarded with 
a unanimous victory. 
Joe "David Hassel" Hof def. Christopher Bemett 
Hof came 'into the fight with a reach advantage, and he utilized it early. Hof took the first round in which neither fighter seemed too eager to engage. 
Bennett came out firing early, trapping Hof against the ropes and unleashing a flurry before the sen­ior could get away. Hof responded with.combinations ofhis own at the end, but it wasn't enough to take the round. 
Bennett started the final round 
with a good series of combos, but 
Hof wouldn't be denied. Hof used 
consistent striking through the later 
half of the round to earn the round 
and split decision victory. 
Sean McNichols def. Brian "Ghostlands" Robillard 
McNichols utilized effective count­er-punching throughout the fight. The first round saw McNichols counter while moving away Robillard. 
Robillard came out aggressive in the second round, initiating most of the exchanges but landing only a few big shots as the senior-contin­ued to avoid most of Robillard's punches. McNichol<>' counters were more accurate, as he landed a few big head<>hol<> ofhis own. 
McNichols continued the counter­game, but Robillard seemed to know he wa<> behind. The freshman came out aggressive and landed some big shots to take the round, but it was not enough, as McNichols took the split decision victory. 
140pounds 
Kris "B Azteca" Perez def. Daniel 
''111e Pandemic" Panzl 
Perez, a three-time champion, outpunched and outmaneuvered Pawl from bell to bell to earn the unanimous victory. Despite Pan7J's bigger size, the agility and quick feet of PPrez proved to be too much for the young fighter. 
A combination of powerful hooks and violent uppercut'> kept Panzl from establishing any sort of rhythm en route to a unanimous victory fhr Perez. 
Michael Johnston def. Scott "Crowbar" Latu 
Johnston's use of a left. right, left, right jab combo gave Lahr prob­lems all night as he cruised to a unanimous victory. 
l)pspite Lahr's lanky frame and long arms, Johnston's persistent approach and aggressive use of hooks and jabs allowed him to con­trol the tempo from the start. Lahr wa.'> unable to adapt as the match progressed, leaving him open to Johnston's attacks. 
Kieran "The Bulge" Bulger def. Andrew "The King of Sting" Dupont 
Bulger was in good form as he 
defeated the Knott freshman in a 
unanimous decision to advance to 
a semifmal meeting with favorite 
Kris Perez. Bulger dominated the 
first round, scoring an early 
knockdown and kept up the pres­
sure throughout the round. 
Dupont showed improved 
defense in the second round, but 
the fight had to be stopped in 
order to stop his bleeding. He 
showed renewed aggression after 
the stoppage, but Bulger contin­
ued to win their exchanges. 
Knowing he was down, Dupont 
came out swinging in the final 
round, finally causing some dam­
age. The effort wore him down, 
however, and was not enough to 
earn the win. 
Eric Feduska def. Nick "Bronco" Bortolotti 
In a fight that saw plenty of 
action, Bortolotti, a freshman from 
Sorin, came out aggressive and 
scored a knockdown in the first 
round that drew heavy support 
from the crowd. Not even the bell 
was enough to stop "Bronco" or 
his senior opponent from Fisher, 
as they continued fighting against 
the ropes for a few seconds after 
the round ended. 
Feduska, who had a first-round 
bye, came out aggressively in the 
second round, initiating and win­
ning nearly every exchange of the 
round. After starting strong, 
Bortolotti appeared content to 
defend in the second. 
Bortolotti went back on the 
offensive early in the third, but he 
wa.<> quickly forced to back down. 
The senior had him on the run 
throughout the end of the round, 
doing serious damage en-route to 
a unanimous victory. 
145 pounds 
Bobby Powers def. Matthew "Lunchbox" Elster 
Powers showed why he reached the fmal<> a.,;; a freshman last year. 
In the first round, Powers pinned Elster against the ropes twice with his hammer-like jabs and ferocious hooks. 
Elster managed to maneuver himself out of harm's way momen­tarily, but Powers chased him. down for the first knockdown of the night. 
After Elster was knocked down again, the referee stopped the con­test with 45 second<> left in the sec­ond round, giving Powers the vic­tory. ­
James "Francis" Woods def. Stephen "The Editor" Mattingly 
Mattingly established himself early in the match as the two fight­ers got a feel for each other in the opening round, but Wood<> quickly fought back. 
Through brute force, Wood<> wa.<> , able to pin Mattingly early in the match with a series of powerful jabs and wide hooks. Mattingly began to expose Woods' some­times-wild attacks, connecting with some key jabs and cut.<>. 
In one of the best fights of the night, the fatigued Mattingly wa.<> unable to throw Woods out of his rhythm as he held on for the unanimous victory. 
Albert "Hispanic causing Panic" Toscano def. Mike Magill 
In a battle between two fresh­men, Magill was unable to use his reach advantage. Toscano got
. . 
Magill into the corner early and dealt some serious punishment throughout the first round. 
The second round started slowly but was otherwise much the same. Magill was still unable to use his reach, and Toscano trapped him against the ropes late to take a two-round lead. 
The third round was relatively even, despite Magill using his reach advantage, with both fight­ers scoring at times. Toscano won by unanimous decision. 
Mark Weber def. Ryan "Will Power" Slaney 
Slaney gave it his all in an effort 
to end the Boxing Club President's 
run in hi,;; first fight after a bye, but 
came up short. Slaney countered 
Weber's early aggression with flur­
ries, but most were simply deflect­
ed, with Weber winning on the 
strength of his exchanges against 
the ropes in the first round. 
Weber scored throughout the 
second round a5 Slaney spent most 
of the round dodging, and some­
times running, from Weber's 
attacks. 
Slaney came out strong and 
aggressive in the final round, tiring 
Weber early. Slaney gassed-himself 
before the round finished and 
could have won it, but it wasn't 
enough, as Weber took a unani­
mous decision. 
147 pounds 
Joey "Thor's Hammer" Leary def. Ted Hellbron 
Leary came out of the gates like 
a madman, landing a flurry ofjabs 
and hooks on the unsuspecting 
face and body of his opponent. 
Leary exhibited quick feet and 
good instincts as he cornered 
Heilbron, who was unable to 
establi<>h a rhythm early. 
As the match progressed, how­
ever, Heilbron found some success 
with the left. jab against the smaller 
frame of Leary. Leary began show­
ing signs of fatigue in the second 
round, and Heilbron quickly took 
advantage. 
But Leary quickly regained con-' trol in the third round, showing more aggression and rediscovering his jab and hook combo. Leary emerged as the unanimous victor in an evenly-fought match. 
Patrick "The South Bend Sniper" Kibbe def. Michael "Blitzkrieg" Bums 
The match appeared to be one­sided in the first round, as Burns came out strong with a series of powerful jabs and ferocious hooks. Burns managed to corner Kibbe for a flurry of punches to the face and body. 
But the tide began to turu in the second round, as Kibbe began to take advantage of his long anps and quick feet to land some upper­cuts and jab ~ombos. Burns also landed some punches to Kibbe's face. 
As the third round began, the match was up for grabs. Kibbe began an onslaught of quick jabs and plenty of hooks, and Burns retaliated by knocking Kibbe to the ground. But Kibbe recovered to win a remarkable match by split­decision. 
Brian "BK Special" Koepsel def. Andrew "AK-47" Kristiansen 
In what was a slugfest from the start, Koepsel took advantage dur­ing the exchanges in the first, but neither fighter wa.<> willing to back down. · 
The second round started out slower, but that didn't last long. as the fighters began trading flurries in the middle of the round. Koepsel again eame out slightly ahead, bu.t Kristiansen did a fair amount of damage as well. 
Kristiansen came out aggressive in the third round, which was as much of a brawl a.<> the rest of the fight. Although both lighters tired before the round ended, Kristiansen's performance Wa<> not quite enough as Koepsel took a unanimous decision. 
Brian Desplinter def. Kevin 
Ortenzio 
Desplinter showed why he is a former Bouts champ, dictating the pace for much ofthe fight. The first round featured few exchanges, with the Alumni senior using his reach to keep Ortenzio at bay. 
Desplinter eontinued using his reach advantage throughout the second round, keeping Ortenzio 

from getting inside. When the 
freshman was able to get inside 
Desplinter's guard, he landed 
some good body punches, but not 
enough to win the round. 
In the final round, Ortenzio over­
came Desplinter's reach advan­
tage, but Desplinter's ability to dic­
tate the pace helped him cruise to 
a unanimous decision victory. 
150 pounds 
Timothy "Slayer" Thayer def. lnoh "Ugtrts Out" Choe 
The match started off slowly as 
both fighters tried to get a feel for 
each other early. Thayer managed 
to pin Choe against the ropes and 
didn't look back from there. 
Choe was in a defensive mode 
for most of the match as he tried 
to block Thayer's left jah, right 
hook combo. Choe was pinned 
against the ropes, but recovered 
with a couple ofdukes and jabs. 
Thayer took care of business in 
the third round to earn the unani­
mous victory against a visibly 
fatigued Choe. 
Matt "Poz" Posluszny vs. Connor Keenan 
Posluszny seized control of the 
match's tempo from the opening 
bell, getting the unanimous victory 
against his young opponent. 
Posluszny came out with strong 
left jabs and consistently landed a 
left, left, right jab combo to neu­
tralize Keenan for three rounds. 
Keenan still managed to land 
punches against the longer~armed 
Posluszny. 
In the final round, Keenan showed sfgns of fatigue as Posluszny finished the job with a ·couple of hard right jabs and wide 
hooks. 

Jamie "Sweet Rays of Sunshine" Koepsel def. Tomas "The Boss" Castillo 
Neither fighter appeared scared 
of the other from the beginning, a.<> 
the two were happy to stand and 
swing throughout much of the 
fight. Koepsel appeared to get the 
advantage and won the round late 
after Castillo started out strong in 
the first. 
The second round featured 
more exchanges, with an early 
stoppage to clean up Castillo's 
blood. Castillo again started out 
strong, but the blood stoppage left 
the round a toss-up. 
In the fmal round, the two again 
settled for accepting punishment 
as a price for dealing their own. 
Koepsel appeared to take the 
round with his performance late 
and was rewarded with a split 
decision victory to advance to the 
semifinals. 
Mark Bennett def. Adam Cowden 
Bennett started out the first 
round with a fury of combos and 
uppercuts, pounding Cowden in 
the face. In the second round, 
Bennett fought back by landing 
several right hooks to Cowden's 
head. 

In the third round, both fighters showed fatigue as they started out the round tentatively trying to land jabs. Bennett prevailr.d in a split decision. 
155 pounds 
Nathan "I am Legend" Rothenberger def. Joey Brown 
Hothenbnrger started quickly in the first round with jabs to Brown. Brown landed several right-hand­ed punches of his own before landing a powerful combo at the end. 
Rothenberger began taking con­trol late in the second round after he landed several combos to Brown's head. In the third round, Rothenberger pushed Brown up against the ropes while landing a series of successful combos. 
Hothenbcrger finished strong to win a split decision. 
Alex "Speedy" Gonzalez def. Kevin Goodwin 
Gonzalez began the match with 
several quick shots before retreat­
ing into defense. lie repeated this 
strategy to gain an advantage 
against Goodwin, who was never 
able to answer the flurries from 
Gonzalez. 
In the second round, Gonzalez 
brought his intensity higher, land­
ing several big combos to 
Goodwin's head. Gonzalez fmi<>hed 
his domination by continuing on· 
the offensive in the third round. 
Gonzalez won in a unanimous 
decision. 
Dan Rodgers def. D.J. McGill 
In the first round, Rodgers did 
the majority of the chasing of his 
opponent, but McGill threw the 
more accurate punches. Later in 
round, Rodgers threw right hook 
shots, cutting McGill's chin. 
In the second round, Rodgers 
brought better blocking abilities to 
the ring, but MeGill showed tenaci­
ty. In the third and most decisive 
round, McGill seemed to be coming 
back, especially as Rodgers tired, 
but a series of combo throws from 
Hodgers supplied the most dam­
age. Rodgers was awarded a 
unanimous victory. 
John Maier def. Steve Simeonidis 
Simeonidis' strong left. uppercut pinned his opponent in the comer early in the first round, but Maier was able to take himself ofT the ropes early. 
..
In the second round, both boxers 
came back into the ring with better 
blOcking strategies. The tables 
turned, as Maier showed 
Simeonidis the ropes. 
In the third round, Simeonidis got Maier backed into the corner and started aiming for Maier's stomach, but Maier was able to recapture domination ofthe ring. 
Maier showed some excellent combo throws in the remaining few seconds, and a strong right­handed blow affected Simeonidis's ability to continue competing. The referee stopped the contest with 30 seconds left in the third round in Maier's favor. 
160 pounds 
Caleb "The Shark Attack" L.aux def. Patrick Martin 
Early in the first round, Martin tried to use his long reach to his advantage, landing several jabs on Laux. Laux was able to land a series of hooks and combos at the end of the first round to gain momentum. 
In the second round, both fight­ers cast defense aside, landing a furious barrage of combos to each other. I .aux took complete control in the third round after he coun­tered several of Martin's errant jabs late in the match. 
Laux won in a unanimous deci­sion. 
Jordan Bucci def. David "That's what she said" Costanzo 
In a display of speed, both Bucci and Costanzo exchanged quick combos early in the firs(round. Neither fighter could take control of the match, with both fighters exchangingjabs and combos. 
Late in the third round, Bucci was able to land a big shot and then retreat, protecting himself from 1-w,ing scored upon and giving himself the advantage down the stretch. Bucci won in a split deci­sion. 
Jim Devereaux def. Nate Juarez 
In the first round, both boxers stayed relatively cautious, display­ing excellent blocking abilities. Combo tlu·ows from Juarez started the hitting, and Devereaux fol­lowed suit. 
In the second round. Juarez did the majority of the chasing, but Devereaux threw hard punches. In 
see DEVEREAUX/page 20 

' I 
.'.\ 
page 22 
\ j I 
; Comeback 
continued from page 24
i 
I
f 
f ; point range in the second 
.,
I ·
half.
I I "We just talked about pride 
in our defense," McGraw said.
I 
"We had to get out and guard
' 
the 3-point line, they were 
really on fire from 3-pointI I range. We were a little bit i ·embarrassed about how they 
were playing." 
Junior guard Janae Stokes was 4-of-8 from 3-point range in the first half and senior guard Jazmine Sepulveda was 3-of-6. In the second half, however, the 
I 
..We were a little

Bulls hit only any pressure." one 3-pointer. embarassed about Notre Dame took the lead
The . win how they were 

moves Notrfl for good with
playing.··

Dame (18-6: 7-5 2:25 remaining Big East) into a when a techni­tie for fifth Muffet McGraw cal foul gave . '' ' place in the the Irish four
Irish coach

I. 
conference with
.. 
I I DePaul. 'l ' Because the 
' 
~ .: Irish swept the season series 
': 
against the Blue Demons, they hold the tiebreaker. 
Senior guard Lindsay Schrader went nuts Tuesday -she had 26 points and 11 rebounds. 
"She had a mismatch quite frequently at the Ismail for­ward] spot," McGraw said. "They had a guard on her. She got comfortable down there, and they put a bigger kid on her and she scored on 
I
'.: l her." Sophomore forward Bccca
'.' 
i ~ Bruszewski scored 20 points, 
·a career high, and made all eight of her free throws. Junior guard Ashley Barlow 
: ~ had 16 points and eight 
I rebounds and junior guard Melissa Lechlitner added eight points and five assists. 

"Barlow carried us in the 
Do-or-die 
continued from page 24 
do it for 40 minutes on the road against a good team." 
The Irish are 2-6 on the road this season and head into Morgantown to face a Mountaineers team that is com­ing off a 93-72 home win over then-No. 13 Villanova last Friday. In that game, West Virginia for­ward oa··sean Butler poured in 43 points on 12-of-23 shooting. 
Despite the prospect of facing the hot-shooting Mountaineers, 
force down low to complement the rest of the Irish frontcourt. Nash scored eight points in just 10 minutes against South Florida and pulled down an average of 
4.5 rebounds in the two games. 
"Ty Nash has helped a lot. It's given our back gt:ys, especially Luke Harangody, a little help down there," McAlarney said. "He bangs, he hits people. We don't mind him getting a few fouls early. He knows his role, he knows what he can and cannot 
d0. " 
The Irish may need Nash's inside presrmce against West Virginia and Mountaineers coach Bob Huggins. who typically 
first half," McGraw said. "She was doing everything she could." 
McGraw said the older play­ers were the ones energizing the team during halftime. 
"I definitely heard Schrader's voice, Lech I'm sure," she said. 
Notre Dame's free throw shooting helped it secure the game. Nobody missed a foul shot in the first half, and the team was 19-of-24 in the sec­ond half. Lechlitner only had one field goal but made all six of her foul shots. 
"We just did the job we had to do at the line," McGraw 
said. "We made 
the easy ones, 
we didn't fell 
free throw 
attempts 
they made them all. A Lechlitner jumper and foul shots down the stretch held the lead. 
Notre Dame trailed 52-44 at the half, but a 3-pointer from Bruszewski and a layup from Schrader pulled the Irish within two. Freshman for­ward Erica Solomon's layup tied the sore at 57 with 13:35 remaining. The teams traded points until the technical foul allowed Notre Dame to tie it up. 
The Bulls led 23-11 with• 
13:00 left in the first half after a 12-2 run that included three 3-pointers. Two free throws from Schrader helped Notre Dame pull to within 10 with 1:3:3 remaining at the half. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
instills toughness in all of his teams. 
"Him rebounding really helped us out, getting an extra body in there for the bigs and knock some people on their butt a little bit," Irish point guard Tory Jackson said of Nash. 
After the contest against West Virginia, the Irish will head to Providence, which has lived up to Brey's pre-season prediction that the Friars would be the sur­prise team of the Big East. Providence sits in sixth place in the conference at 16-9 overall and 8-5 in Big East }llay. 
Brey and sev­
eral of his play­

the Irish said ers said the next
"Ty Nash has helped

they may now be two games are 
a lot. It's given our

tougher than they not necessarily were before their back guys, like Luke do-or-die show­current two­downs for Notre
Harangody, a little 

game win streak. Dame. Still, with
help down there.,

In the victories, a road game at sophomore Connecticut and Tyrone Nash Kyle McAiarney a home tilt 
emerged as a against Villanova 
Irish guard 
still looming on 
the schedule, the Irish know the results of the next two games will go a long way toward deciding the outcome of their season. 
"It's a week where you can make a move. That's how we talked about it," Brey said. "There's still a lot of basketball to play after that as well, espe­cially winning these two here at home, getting some momentum and re-establishing some identi­ty. You certainly have a chance this week to make a move in the standings." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Wedn!sday, February 18, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Boilers 
' 
continued from page 24 
Freshman Shannon Mathews has been one of the pleasant surprises this season for the Irish. She has yet to lose a sin­gles match thus far boasting a 6-0 record in the No. 6 singles spot. 
"Shannon has really come through for us this season, especially with her big win against Arkansas after being 
HEAD CASE 

down to rna tch point," Louderback said. "She has managed to build on that as the season has progressed." 
Mathews has also been a force at the No. 3 doubles spot notching a 5-2 record along­side partner junior Colleen Rielley. 
Overall, Louderback is impressed by his team's per­formance so far. 
"I feel really good about where we are at this time," he said. "We still have some things that we have to improve on to do well at the end of the year." 
Louderback is still looking for plenty of improvement from his team over the next few weeks. 
"We played very well at the National Indoor Championships last weekend, especially in singles," he said. "But our doubles play needs to get better, particularly at the end of sets." 
Today's match starts at 4 
p.m. with the doubles competi­tion. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 


Senior Eric Feduska adjusts his headgear between rounds of his quarterfinal fight against Nick Bortolotti. Feduska won a unanimous decision. 



~t -fOUNDJi .· 
Dtr~y Aero~~• From The unwe...atv of Notre Deme Sttldlum lrt IIddy Street Common• 
Expo$1!(J brd walls and hardwood atyle flocn ExpansiVe wtndows wtth spectacular views Stunning 10.foot Qtilings Rooftop deck wtrh panoramiC 'liew$ of the UnM!tsity of Notre Dame campus Fully equipped kitcheos with an abl.mdaoce of cabinets PtWate baths for every bedroom Futl..iize washer &dfyErr in fM1fY apartmGrtt Ali utillUes included -ewn cable and tnlemet Wi-Fi internet access throughout Club House Enh~ 6\.tfijoess Center Private bltc.onies 1n select apartments 24-hour fitneQ center with staw.Qf-fhe..art eqwpment &Wli Fit Community room with Wli &Bdflards Futi serviee coooerge Tanning Salon EleCtroniC card aCCMS to 'fOOl apartment and arr!EJM~ ::enter Gaiage~ 
• Retail snops and restiwian~ at street leW( Small pets W!ot.ad 
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LIVING AND UVING WELL 





Visit our LeaSing Center aa the East comer of the North Eddy Street construction sne on Angela Blvd. 
emalh eddyOfoundryttvlng.com 
.. :_,:'"~»a-1..00 ...... . . ·¥"-. : . .;,-'!: ,<, 
-" --• ~ • ~To~ ~ 
I 


Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DAVID CAVADINI 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
61 Singles bar repertoire (and a hint to 17·, 24-. 36· and 52­Across) 
63 Make darts. say 64 Cry after "Psst!" 65 For fear that 66 Farm brooder 67 Casually add 68 Pseudocultured 
Down 
Side story 2 Apportion, as 
costs 3 Rubs oil on 4 Clicked one's 
tongue 5 Ones minding the store: Abbr. 6 Birth control 
option. briefly  
7  Scalawag  
8  -· Hall, Diane  
Keaton role  

9 "Gracias" response 10 Cortes's prize 11 Tall wardrobe 12 Succeeds in a big way 13 Yachting event 18"Happy Motoring" brand 22 Top-notch, to a 
· Brit 241nnocents 25 Suffix with buck 
28 Bugs on a highway 
WILL SHORTZ 

31 Straightened (up}  40 Property recipient in law  53 Violists' places: Abbr.  
33"_what?" 34 Rosetta stone language  41 Hardly a celebrity 44 Chanter 45least ruffled  54 Burger go-withs 56 Hyams of 1920s~ '30s films 59 Shop window  
37 Yothers of "Family Ties"  46 General pardon 48 ..Twelfth NightN  sign 61 Word with boss or bull  
38 Kobe cash  lover  62 New England  
39 Me-first  50 Secluded valley  state sch.  

For answers, call1~900·285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords {$39.95 a year). Share tips= nytimes.com!puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comlleaminglxwords. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CE.I.EBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Cb:ad Lowe-40: Mario Van Ped>le~. 51; 
Andrea Martin. bl: MMJ:trel tYBnen. 71 
Happy Birdlday: Y~•u \\'ill occomplish {ar more thi> ~·ear if you juse quietly mo"e tor· 
w;u-d wilh rour plan~o. Tru~t your QWU Judi>!IIK"nl and put your lm<.lWied~ and CXJ"!'r1ill(' 
,.
lo uw. Your num~r~ an: 11. 19.lL 15. ·'-'· 39 
ARIES (M.vch 21·Aprill9}: Yt1U will be a link ii111Xrous and idle time \\'ill be wbut 
lead<. tn mi'llakc'l. I . .<.'IOk al the bi@ pi~·ture and. i! you aren't happy \\'ilh whal you S«, 
~·han1e it. 3 :~-tom 
TAURUS (April 20~May 20): Stkk w wbal h.a~ lobe fini~heu and dtm't let anyvnc 
1ake y~-.ur mind off)'OUT •~k '" ham!. If)'t'>U fall dt.:lfl ()(your e:J;l)«ta«ions. wme<>n.: 
will be:: s~.~Te ttl JXlinl t>ul yvur $h~~rt\."t•ming. ;l '1-(an 
GEMINJ (May 21-Ju.ae 10): Thew \\'ill be oo lime to mull ~·er thing~. A..'twa ~·iU be 
11k-key tv yaur JUC~es.~. Y<IUr inruitt..lfl "'·ill he (lfl the:-m:uk. S() uu~• in )OOr own judg· 
tncnt. noc M)Q)e'Of!C ellie'~. -' staN 
CANCER (June 11-July 22): lfyou f«l you~ too cklfie to a ~itwation to nW.~ a food d«i~<>n. don't .n1V\<c forww. took .m:ound you and ~ what c\'~llOlle dM.-h doina.. It ~boukljiw you an indicatitlll whew you fit in and how you ~an PfO'.'«d.. Hon· e11ty will \\'in fa\•ors. 1 5tan 
.....
LHO (July 23-Aaa. 22): l'bis is 11 perfect mcef·and·Jl'«l day. c~pc('ially \\'here m:spira· tiona! pa>pk are con,-cm«l. A love oonocctioo. can ~ made or yon can tct clo~><t to yonr o:u~ot p;u1ftn' by di$CW>M.ni your future plam. ~ Man 
VIRGO (A•I· 23-Scpt.. 12): Jt ~'OU complain or (:rUicil<' otbot'f5, yon ~nlli.lw-ty kl set mywhar. Hm\'<'\·er, if you focus on implementin;. a couple of dtmaes th:lt will ~taw ~·onr Sire$$. much can ~ a..--complim..~. Start doine for yo>ursclf. 3 sl.ars 
UBRA (Sept. Z3-oct. 22): Keep bu~y doing tblnas that will e'·cntWtlly help yoo get ablta4. C.:m~. ~Klbbtcs. pkl..tne up information or spendine time wich So.'IO'l¢l."t0e e~i~ eftl."ed in a f~kt }'OU \\'lUll kl puNIC win all '\\'Of'k to rour .advant.1~. 3 $taR 
SCORP£0 (Oc:c. 23-Nov. 21): You ma.y haw to ~ an .altcmale rotJie to ;et to whc~ )'00 belong. Keep oo.IIOf' ofwhat t''¢1'YOM el~ is OOint ro you can ou.tsm311 any «lm­pctition }'flU f3Cc. 3 stars 
SAGI1TARJUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Y•JU 1ihould be ~ndinJ ti~ tookinJ for lm'<' or doing wrnclhinJ sp«iru with yllur Cllm"nt paruier. Tmvd may entice you but ~'OU can accun1plisb ju'it as mt.Kh stickinJ clm.e to home.~ ~l+~n 
CAPRICORN (~. 22~Jan. 19): l.ic\tcn and ltf>li('SS rour lliluation. Some~ will Jive )'Oil a bird'li eye \-ie\\' or what )'Oil need w do to iiCComplish your ;<:lilh. Be Sn:w1 and pl~y your •·anh dt'IS\! to )'our d.c:>!. 2 $fAt'S 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): ("tmsi<b ~·oor option) ;md ~·ou will be able to fi4 fM mPre into your M;hcdulc. Planning your aat \'~Killion "ill em:ourag-e you to be more produ~·ti\'eA still'!i 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): YUtflJ find it difficull to stkk h.~ one thina. Yt'W' mind \\·Jll ~ w~ing and you may ~d to que.ioti<)ll yt:l\lr motiv~$. 3 ~t3n 
Birthday Baby: Y~t inwrugat.:, ~te:rmine what tt..-. do and re-.JCt quickly and pnxi~ly. YllU Mit ~-banninJ. Wlt$Jli\'C. emotk,nal and able w find ~llUtioru< \\'ht:n anr pr~:lbkm-. 
l'le~'Uf, 

www.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip__________ _ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

KYMOS ± 
rx II 
1 
ITINOOL j
/J 1 r cJ 
Answer: 
" [II X)" l X X X JIT .. 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: KEYED GUMMY ELICIT FINISH Answer: What she decided when the eye doctor asked her out -TO "SEE" HIM 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henrl Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WH£:N HE WA5 IDL.O AroUT THE HOLe IN THE WAL.l-1 THE COP SAID 1-€0--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
Across Lovers' scrap 5 Nanki-Poo's 
father l1 Cabinet dept 14 Samovars 15 Artillery unit 
member 16 Some eggs 17 McGarrett's TV 
catchphrase 19 Unit of RAM 20 Father figure? 21 By way of 22 600·homer club 
member 23 Alights 24 Question for a 
hitchhiker 26 Giant in 
Cooperstown 27 Eggs, in labs 29 Biblical landing 
spot 30 Putting a toe in the water, say 
32 Hockey position 35 Paris Metro station next to a music center 36 Shout from the phone 39 Resident of Medina 42 _'Pea 43 Type size 47 Cause of odd weather
. 
49Wrap up 51~.~ de plume 52 Chevy tmck 
slogan, once 55 John of London 57 Ward (off) 
58 Sellout sign 59 World Cup chant 60 Italian diminutive 
suffix 



WHAr IS .S(OW CAN W£ £XP£C1" KIPS ro INNOVAre IF rH£>1' CA,.,. IJY£N FIT' IN rH£ 81.111-PING?.! 

tr N£ePS ro ae/ ArUAsr­3 riMES AS BIG.! 
FR• .JENKINS. I GIVe YOU... 
T'Hii ND INNOYAriON PARK! 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community . 
• 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accon1pa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 



'I 
' ' 
I I 
I !1t : Ji I 
ql Wednesday, February 18, 2009 
page 24 

I 
,ji 
BENGAL BOUTS 
I­
I, 
n 

Sweet science for some, sour for others 
By ALEX WEST, DOUGLAS FARMER, CHRISTOPHER MASOUD, MOLLY SAMMON, DANIEL MADDEN and ERIC PRISTER Sports Writers 
The fighters in Notre Dame's Bengal Bouts took to the ring again Tuesday in quarterfinal action. 
130pounds 
Chris "Cougar" Cugliari def. Nicholas Bock 
Cugliari set the tone for the night with a commanding unani­mous victory. keeping Bock on his toes from the opening bell. He pinned Bock on the ropes and unleashed a series of blows in the first round. 
Although quick on his feet, Bock wasn't able to establish a rhytlun for himself, as he was forced to play defense for most of the match. 
Cugliari used an effective combo of alternating jabs followed by a vicious uppercut to cause Bock's 
see BOUTS/page 21 

I 
l. MEN'S BASKETBALL 
~ 
i l 
·, 
Must-win games sneaking up as end of the season nears 

By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
The term "must-win" is thrown around frequently in sports but Notre Dame knows that it must approach its two-game road trip -which starts tonight at West Virginia -almost as if the Irish season depended on it. 
"At this point, every "game is a hinge game," Irish senior co-cap-

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish get comeback victory 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
In spite Notre D.ame coach Muffet McGraw's emphasis on perimeter defense this season, Notre Dame allowed seven 3­pointers in the first half against South Florida. 
McGraw called it inex­

cusable. The team lis­
tened. 
"They were jumping up and down. g<'tting on each other, th•~Y really bought into it," she said. 
No. 24 Notre Dame bat­tled back from 14 points down in the first half to out-score South Florida 42-27 the second and win, 86-79, in Tampa, Fla. on Tuesday. The Irish held the­Bulls to 1-of-11 from 3­
see COMEBACK/page 22 

1., 
,!; 
' 

tain Zach llillesland said. "There's not any game left that we can write off." 
The Irish (14-10, 5-7 Big East) sit just one -game behind West Virginia in the conference stand­ings and trail Providence, who they will face Saturday, by two­and-a-half games. 
"It's a chance to get back to 7-7 in the league and put us in great position for the stretch run," Hillesland said. "Two very good teams ahead of us in the stand­ings, and any time you have teams ahead of you, you want to knock them off." 
Wins over West Virginia and Providence would give the Irish an edge in a tie-breaker if they were tied with either at the end of the season. Such an advantage could be crucial, because Notre Dame sits in 1Oth place in the competitive Big East and would secure a first-round bye in the conference tournament by improving to eighth place or bet­ter. 

"It's huge for us. Two great opportunities to kind of pick peo­ple oft' that are in front of us and get back what we've lost," Irish senior co-captain Kyle McAlarney said. 
The Irish, who have given up 
71.8 points per game, held each of their last two opponents ­Louisville and South Florida -to 57 points. But against West Virginia tonight, the Notre Dame defense may have more difficulty than it did in home wins over the Cardinals and Bulls. 
"I wish [our defense] could bs a little more consistent, quite frankly, especially on the road," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We've done it [at home] ... but I don't know if we've been able to 
see DO-OR-DIE/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
High-flying team hosts tough Purdue squad 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
With two victories over top­
five teams in the Indoor 
National Championships, the 
No. 14 Irish are riding a heap of 
momentum as they head into 
today's matchup with a feisty 
Purdue squad at Eck Tennis . Pavilion. 
In last weekend's tournament, 
Notre Dame pulled two upsets 
over No. 5 Stanford and No. 4 
Baylor before falling in the 
semifinals . to No. 1 
Northwestern. 
"I believe we can compete 
with any team in the country," 
Irish coach Jay Louderback 
said. "We have plenty of tough 
matches over the next few 
weeks and winning some close 
ones against top-five teams has really helped our confidence." 
The early success, however, isn't all fun and games. The Irish still cannot afford to let their guard down against weak­er opponents. 
"Doing well last weekend puts a bigger target on your back," Louderback said. "So vve have to be ready for every team we play." 
The Irish are 6-1 this season, with eaeh match having come against ranked opponents. The Boilermakers are just 3-3 this season, but Louderback isn't allowing his team to take them lightly. ~ 
"[Purdue! isn't ranked, but they beat a very good Wichita State team last week," he said. "They have played much better as the season has progressed." 
see BOILERS/page 22 






