
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Fourth annual Edith Stein Project Conference stresses upholding dignity of all human. beings 
pose of the panel, and the con­
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
ference as a whole, was to
Associate News Editor 

emphasize the dignity of all people. Th'e panel, she said, Seven members of the Notre would discuss how beat~ty, both Dame community, including internal and external, play into freshman Melissa Buddie, the hook-up culture. Kwan whose letter published in The described a hook-up as a "one­Observer last fall inspired time physical encounter that much debate about the college can range from making out to hook-up culture, spoke Friday having sex." People crowded about hooking-up and inner into a room in McKenna Hall, and external beauty. sitting in the aisles and stand­
The panel was part of the ing on the edges, to hear the fourth annual Edith Stein panelists discuss the topic. Project Conference, which In her Nov. 19 Letter to the addressed the topic "Love: Editor, Buddie addressed the What Hurts and What Works: six guys "I've hooked up with Engaging Self, Society and this semester," questioning why God." Senior Natassia Kwan, they have ignored her following an Edith Stein Project Committee chair, said the pur-see PANEL/page 4 
Unopposed ticket runs for SMC student gov't 
Running mates hope to install printers in each dorm, improve dining hall through surveys 
sophomore class president.
By LIZ HARTER 
They are running unopposed.
Saint Mary's Editor 
Hoffman said the experi­ence her ticket already has 
Student body presidential with student government is and vice presidential candi­something to be taken into dates Jenny Hoffman and consideration. Meg Griffin introduced them­"While it's not everything, selves to Saint Mary's stu­experience speaks volumes," dents in the West Wing of the she said. "We appreciate this Noble Family Dining Hall school for all that it's worth." during a "Meet the Hoffman said the two will Candidates" event last week. use their experience to their 
Junior Jenny Hoffman, who advantage in their new posi­is running as the president tions . 
. on her ticket, is currently the "There are things you learn executive secretary for in student government that Board of Governance (BOG).

Saint Mary's student body president candidate Jenny Hoffman, 
Griffin, a sophomore, is the

right, and vice president candidate Meg Griffin, left, run unopposed. see TICKET/page 6 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Sophomore 
calls for Subvvay boycott 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Sophomore John Traub is calling for a boycott of Subway sandwiches because the Subway in LaFortune does not offer the famous $5 foot­long deal that is offered at other Subways across the nation. 
"Basically every time I get Subway it's in the back of my mind that I wish we had $5 footlongs and until a few weeks ago I figured there was no way to change that," Traub said. 
Traub initially contacted Subway to find out why the deal was not in place, and the manager said that it would not be a good business decision to implement it, Traub said. 
After receiving what Traub felt was an unsatisfactory response from the manager, he created a Facebook group, called "Fighting for Footlongs," to see if other stu­dents would be interested. ­
Sophomore James Hinckley, who is boycotting Subway along with Traub, said that within three hours of its cre­ation, the group had a few hundred members, and within about a day, the group had more than a thousand mem­bers. 
"I realized everyone felt the 
see SUBWAY/page 6 

Brazilian Carnaval entertains students, cotntnunity 
By ELIZABETH O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
Studenl<>, faculty and members of' the South Bend community paeked South Dining Hall Friday night .for the 11th annual "Brazilian Carnaval!" 
"Carnaval!" is a take-oil' on the Brazilian Carnaval festival, which oecurs l'our days before Fat Tuosday in Hio de Jan<>iro, Brazil. · 
Senior .Julia Sendor, tlw stu­dnnt assistant to the Events ~:oordinator at tlw Kellogg Institute, said they had been planning for this year's event since December. 
"Since it is a yearly event, we draw on certain aspects of the c'elebration that we found were popular in previous years," she said. 
One of the signature events of the Carnaval celebration in Brazil is the bloco parade, which features schools of samba dancers, dancing costumes, music and entertainment. 
The parade's namn comes from -the tradition that groups of people form "blocos," which is Portuguese ~or block. These blocks each are dressed in cos­tumes relating t.o a specific theme or idea. 
The evnnt organizers intro­duced the bloco parade to the on-eampus <:eiebration this year as a new activity at "Carnaval!" While there were no samba schools to participate in the parade. there were plenty of costumed participants. •. 
The bloco parade served as a costume contest at "Carnaval!" All costumed guests at the event were invited to join in the 
see BRAZIL/page 3 

page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 Monday, February 16, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Swimsuit regrets 
Four or five times a week, I used to sit next to a future Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition model. 
Freshman year and for p-arts of sophomore year during high school, I sat in homeroom K "tl R" I' 
next to a girl with al ynn •e Y long brown hair 
and very blue 
Associate 
eyes. She was tall, 
News Editor 
her legs long. She powdered her face while the teacher read announcements out loud. 
Back then, she wore a Catholic school uniform. Now, she is sprawled across the pages of Sports Illustrated and on the Internet, pictured wear­ing skimpy bathing suits, lying on warm beaches. 
We lead very different lives. It's been a long time since I was outside 
(1) lying on the ground (2) not wear­ing pants and a coat (3) lying on the ground not wearing pants and a coat. 
A friend of mine e-mailed me the link to our high school classmate's Sports Illustrated spread a few days ago. It was my first time looking at the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition. It was her first time appear­ing in it. 
It was a little uncomfortable look­ing at the pictures. Last time I saw her in person, she had a lot more clothes on. 
But this isn't the first time I've seen pictures of my famous classmate. On the second day I arrived in London to study abroad last year, I was walking down Oxford Street. It's a very busy street in London, with many retail stores. I looked up and saw her look­ing down at me, from a billboard high above the street. She was mod­eling clothes for a popular British store. 
"I went to high school with that girl," I told the people I was walking with, pointing at the billboard.. I'm sure they assumed it was the jetlag talking. 
A few weeks later, I was walking around Harrods, a farnam} depart­ment store in London. I saw her face, looking back at me from ads sur­rounding a make-up stand. 
Another time, I was home in Maryland, walking through a Rite Aid. I glanced at a rack of maga­zines, and there she was, on the cover of Vogue. 
People have created Web sites about her, she has her own Wikipedia page and she is one of the world's 15 top-earning super models. 
I know you should not make friends purely for what they can do for you, but looking back at my days in homeroom, I wonder why I didn't chat her up a little more. 
Right now I'm sitting in the base­ment of South Dining Hall, pulling a shift at The Observer. I haven't been outside in hours but I know the tem­perature is below freezing. I could be on a beach somewhere, hanging out with my best friend, sipping a fruity drink. 
Learn from my mistakes: Make friends with ridiculously good-look­ing people. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.· 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Notre Dame Men's Tennis article that appeared in the Ocr. 13 edition ofThe Observer was a reprint from the article rhar was run last year. The Observer regrets the error, and the correct article has been posted on-line. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK THE QUESTION OF THE DAY SHOULD BE? 







Jason Ritzi  Jess Reese  Sam Tulisiak  Brianne Carroll  Krystal Holtcamp  
freshman Dillon  sophomore Le Mans  freshman LeMans  freshman LeMans  freshman McCandless  
"! would be too  "Do you think  "Where's  "How much  "How many  
lazy to think of  Ba.rack is doing  Waldo?"  wood could a  licks does it  
one.  a good job as president so fiar.?"  woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck  take to get to the center ofa Tootsie Pop?"  
could chuck  
wood?"  


PAT COVENEY!The Observer 
Grand Knight Jim Redden cooks steaks for the Knights of Columbus' steak-grams. Notre Dame students could order steak-grams for Valentine's Day, and a Knight delivered them to their carnivorous friend or love interest. 
OFFBEAT 
Student spots error on state-wide test 
WICHITA, Kan. -A high school student's keen eye has caught a state test error that managed to slip past teachers, test coordinators and other students for almost a year. 
Geoffrey Stanford, 17, discovered during a Kansas writing test last week that an essay ques­tion concerning green­house gases incorrectly used the word "omission" for the word "emission," prompting the Wichita East High School junior to point out the error. 
"I thought, 'Surely they're not talking about leaving out carbon diox­ide altogether.' It just didn't make sense," Stanford said. "It had to be a mistake." 
The state Department of Education has e­mailed a corrected ver­sion of the essay question to test coordinators around the state, but the incident already has caused a lot. of red faces at the department, which used a committee of more than 30 state teachers to develop the test almost two· years ago. 
Kissing record broken on Valentine's Day 
MEXICO CITY -Mexico City puckered up to set a new record Saturday as nearly 40,000 people locked lips in the city center for the world's largest group kiss. 
Carlos Martinez of Guinness World Records veri­fied the record of 39,897 peo­ple who entered the gated kissing area of the city's Zocalo main square on Valentine's Day, besting Weston-super-Mare, an English town that set the pre­vious kissing record in 2007. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
e
....I 

/1,1,1,
~~ 
I I I
ct 
(,) 0

.... HIGH 31 HIGH 26 HIGH 42 HIGH 38 LOW 21 LOW 19 LOW 32 LOW 20 IN BRIEF 
The Third Annual Chesterton Rhetoric Competition takes place tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The event is co-sponsored by the Graduate Student Union, the Center for Ethics and Culture and the Creative Writing Program. 
"How the Health Are You?" a health fair open to students, will take place Wednesday from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. The event is free and attendees have the chance to win raffle prize-s, including a free roundtrip ticket to anywhere in the United States. 
Panelists, including stu­dents, professors and mem­bers of the South Bend com­munity, . will debate President Obama's impact on diversity Wednesday at 7 
p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center lounge. 
The Class of 2012 presents "Frosh Four Square" Thursday from 6 to 9 p.m. in Stepan Center. The event is free to participate, and $5 for a T-shirt. 
David Walker, the presi­dent and CEO of the Peter 
G. Peterson Foundation, will speak Friday from 10:40 
a.m. to 12:10 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The event is part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series. It is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
Q Q 
* * * *
**** ** **** ** 
HIGH 26 HIGH 
29 

LOW 13 LOW
. 19 

Atlanta 56 131 Boston 34 123 Chicago 34 I 27 Denver 56 I 25 Houston 68 I 61 Los Angeles 59 I 46 Minneapolis 33 I 20 New York 36 122 Philadelphia 40 I 24 Phoenix 70 I 51 Seattle 49 I 36 St. Louis 41 I 30 Tampa 71 I 47 Washington 38 I 27 
Monday, February 16, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Sophomores, parerits enjoy weekend at SMC 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer Parents of sophomore stu­dents at Saint Mary's spent the weekend participating with their daughters in numerous  The Mass was beautiful, and the dinner was delicious and so much fun." Parents had to register for the weekend, and then were able to participate in all of the events. "I don't believe there was a  Brown said. "I don't have an mal dinner as well. exact number, "It was a little but I'd guess hectic making that at least one "My mom and uncle sure all the fourth of the events went ascould only come on parents were on smooth as possi­Saturday for Mass campus all ble," Brown said. weekend." and dinner because "But it all  "The dinner was very busy, but it went well." Brown said. "Of course, with an big dinner event, such as a wedding or a family party, there is always something going on. But we kept things going and did what­ever it took to make everyone  
activities organized by Class of 2011 president Meg Griffin and other members of the Sophomore Board.  problem with registration," Brown said. "If there were any dilemmas at all, we, the Sophomore Board, did every­ Throughout the weekend, a series of events were put on for  of work, but they enjoyed meeting new people and seeing the  worked out, and the fact that the majority of par­ents and stu­ enjoy the night." Brown said her family had a good time. "My family had a great time,"  
Sophomore Katie Brown, a member of the Sophomore  thing in our power to accom­modate everyone."  parents and daughters. On  campus again."  dents seemed to have a great  Brown said. "My mom and my uncle could only come on  
Board, said the weekend went well.  Many parents decided to come to the event. Students and  Friday, the event hosted a  Katie Brown  time is what really made this  Saturday for Mass and dinner because of work, but they  
"Everyone seemed to be hav­ parents combined, an estimat­ silent auction,  sophomore  weekend so spe­ enjoyed meeting new people  
ing a great time," she said.  ed 360 people were in atten­ and on Saturday  cial."  and seeing the campus again."  
"The silent auction on Friday  dance.  there was bingo,  The weekend  
was a hit. Saturday bingo was  "There were quite a few par­ a special Mass dedicated to the  concluded with the formal din­ Contact Alicia Smith at  
quite amusing for everyone.  ents on campus all weekend,"  parents and students and a for­ ner Saturday evening.  asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu  

UP AGAINST THE ROPES 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Junior Andrew O'Donnell pins junior Nathan Rothenberger against the ropes Sunday at the Bengal Bouts preliminaries. Rothenberger defeated O'Donnell in a unanimous decision. Turn to page 24 for coverage of the fights. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 16, 2009 
said it results in self-fragmen­tation.

Panel 
"We are saying that, 'I am 
continued from page 1 
their hook-up. The point of her letter. she wrote then. was to declare that she "won't hook­up with any more random boys." 
The letter drew many responses which, Buddie said Friday, were "at times hurtful and demoralizing." 
In her talk Friday, she addressed her motivations for writing the letter and the out­come of her declaration. 
When she arrived on campus in August, she met up with a fellow student she knew and had talked to over the summer. Thev kissed, she said, and it was'the first time she had been intimate with someone outside a relationship. 
But then he ignored her, she said. 
"It is impossible for me to convey to you the magnitude of the effect this experience had on Ine," she said. Buddie said she became going to make out with you tonight, but I am not interested in having a relationship with you,"' Lashutka said. 
Notre Dame seniors Nathan Loyd, Mark Skylling and Katie Michel, junior Jim Hedden and sophomore Michael Bohnert offered their own views on the hook-up culture and the defini­tions of internal and external 

. beauty. Instant gratification has become a priority, Loyd said, so "external beauty rules our soci­ety." People do not want to have to take the time to learn about a person's inner beauty, he said. "We tend only to want enough to pacify our carnal desires," he said, and it's a trend that hurts both genders. Those who engage in hooking­up may "justify it as a neces­sary release of pent-up sexual energy," Loyd said. "We need to embrace our sexuality as ·a blessing and a gift," he said. 

Higgins Labor Studies Program Spring 2009 Schedule 
Feb 4 Labor Film: Where Do You Stand?: Storie.vfrom 1111 American Mill facilitator: Dan Graft: Associate Director, Higgins Labor Studies Program 
9 Proinoting Community Benefits with Respo11sib/e Ta:t.: Policy Speaker: Marty Wolfson, Director, Higgins Labor Studies Program 
16 Union Forum: Tire Role ofUnions ill Today's Economy 
Speakers: Gary Wuslich, Vice-President, Human Resources, AM General Bob Warnock, Jr., President, AFL-CIO Central Labor Council Bi II Purcell, Associate Director, Center tor Social Concems 
7:30p.m.• Hesburgh Center Auditorium (on Notre Dame Avenue) 
23 Connet..•ting US Lttb{)r & the World Social Forum Proces...: The Work ofJobs with Justice 
Speakers: Austin Choi-Fitzpatrick, PhD student in sociology Ana Velitchkova, PhD student in sociology and peace studies 
12:00 to I:00 p.m.• O'Shaughnessy 119 
Mar 2 U.S. Catholic Labor Prie!Us, Speaker: Fr. Pat Sullivan 
12:00 to I:00 p.m., O'Shaughnessy 119 
16 Rethinking the Golden Age tifCapitalbim: The 1959 St. Louis New...paper Guild Strike · Speaker: Brian Samacki, senior History major 
12:00 to I :00 p.m., Decio J31 
24 McBride Lecture: Protecting the Planet & Creati11g Job...: A Win-Win Proposition Speaker: David Foster, Executive Director ofthe Blue-Green Alliance 7:30p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
30 Human Rights Lecture: Worki11g ftJr Social Justice: From tlte Fields ofImmokalee, Florida to the Fields ofSinaloa, Mexico 
Speaker: Melody Gonzalez '05, National Campaign Coordinator, fair Food Across Borders . 7:30 p.m.• DeBartolo Classroom Building 131 
Apr 1 Labor Film: Newsie.'i Facilitator: Marty Wolfson, Director of Higgins Labor Studies Program 
4:30 to 6:30p.m.. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
20 The Strugglefor WtJrkers' Rights at the Stmth Bend Housing Authority Speaker: Gene Knapp. Teamsters Local 364 · 
12:00 to I:00 p.m.• O'Shaughnessy 119 

again," she said. She never got the affirmation of her inner beauty that she was looking for, but after each hook-up she felt a momentary boost to her self-esteem, and fell "into a pattern of repeated hook-ups, at which point my self-respect began to disap­pear." 
"I began to realize that none of the guys who I hooked up with, by the very nature 9f the hook-up culture, were con­cerned about my inner beauty," she said. "They either saw me as hot or as just an opportunity. Maybe they were looking for the same self-validation I was." 
.Buddie said she is thankful she did not reach the point where she was sleeping with men when she decided to write her Letter to the Editor. 
It was hard to read the criti­cism of her in the paper, she said, but people she knew and didn't know gave her support. 
"These people pointed out so many things about my inner beauty that I had never known before," she said. "Discoyering these qualities, I was able to discover all the parts of my inner beauty and learn to cher­ish it." 
Buddie said she knows the attention paid to her letter has taken away her anonymity at the University. 
"I will never just be another student at Notre Dame," she said. "I will always be that girl from The Observer, but I'd rather be that girl who loves herself, who celebrates her inner beauty and who respects herself and others, than the girl that I was before." 
Caroline Murphy Lashutka, a 2007 graduate of Notre Dame, also spoke, testifying about her personal experience battling an eating disorder. Like eating dis­orders, Lashutka said, the hook-up culture is the process of "splitting the person away from their body, engaging in a deeply-felt schism of the body." 
Lashutka said she thinks the hook-up culture is created by a "desire to experience really genuinely good things," but 

"obsessed with "I began to realize People need to the idea that re-examine defi­
that none ofthe guys 
something was nitions of beauty 
who I hooked up with,
wrong" with her and attraction, and lost sight of by the very nature of Skylling said. 
her inner beau­the hook-up, were The images in ty and her self­the media make
concerned about my
respect. it seem as 
''I would look inner beauty." though beauty is to guys at the something to party to help me strive for.
Melissa Buddie 
feel beautiful "Beauty is
freshman 
something that 
every single one 
of us has inher­ently because we are children and we were created in God's image," he said. 
Skylling said he sees the Notre Dame hook-up culture as stemming from a desire for affirmation. 
"We want to be wanted," he said. ".. .It's a way to get that instant gratification that 'yes, I'm wanted. I'm desired.'" 
Many people engage in hook­ups in an effort to start a rela­tionship, Redden said. 
"I think this approach is fun­damentally flawed because it forms as a foundation of a rela­tionship physical attraction, and this physical attraction is fleeting," he said. "What really needs to form the foundation for a lasting relationship is friendship." 
Bohnert said college life, especially at a demanding school like Notre Dame, encourages hook-ups because time to foster relationships is limited. The hook-up can seem attractive becausf) it's a one­time thing, with no strings attached. 
Michel said she is infuriated by objectification of women, in society and on Notre Dame's campus. 
"If I have to hear 'Notre Dame girls are ugly' one more time, or hear one more igno­rant wise crack about our women's rowing team, I may explode, because I've heard it for four years," she said. 
She said she is frustrating by disparaging remarks about women in the Keenan Revue and Observer comics. 
"Notre Dame women are beautiful," she said. "They are beautiful because they are suc­cessful, faithful and smart." 
The Edith Stein Project Conference, the largest stu­dent-run conference at Notre Dame, lasted two days and also explored topics including mar­riage preparation, domestic violence and contraception. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 16, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraqi officials admit election fraud 
BAGHDAD -Iraqi officials acknowledged Sunday that there was some fraud in last month's provincial ~lections but not enough to force a new vote in any province. 
Faraj al-Haidari, chairman of the election commission, said final results of the Jan. 31 voting would be certified and announced this week. Voters chose mem­bers of ruling provincial councils in an election seen as a dress rehearsal for par­liamentary balloting by the end of the year. 
The U.S. hailed the absence of major vio­lenee during the eleetions, expressing hope they would help cement seeurity gains of the past year. 
Despite the drop in violence, a U.S. sol­dier was killed Sunday by a roadside bomb in southern Iraq, the U.S. annoimeed. At least three other people were killed by attacks Sunday in other parts of the eoun­try, aceording to police. 
Drones used to hunt Somali pirates 
ABOARD THE USS MAl-fAN -American war­ships off the lawless Somali eoast are using unmanned drones to hunt pirates threatening one of the world's most important shipping lanes. 
Sailors aboard the USS Mahan told The Associated Press they have been using the spy flights daily to spot potential pirate mother ships. 
For years, the U.S. has used drones to track potential terrorists among Somalia's warlords, but the Navy said more and more of the planes are now being used to fight piraey. 
The drones ean fly more than 3,000 feet (915 meters) above sea level and relay pictures detailed enough to reeognize the flags flown on fishing boats that Somalis use to avoid deteetion. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Four killed in hospital shooting 
BROCKPORT, N.Y. -A man was charged with murder after two people were shot dead outside a hospital and a eouple were killed in their home hours later, authorities said. 
Frank Garcia, 34, of Hamlin, was charged Saturday with two eounts of first­degree murder and attempted second­degree murder in the shootings outside Lakeside Memorial Hospital in Brockport, Monroe County Sheriff Patrick O'Flynn said. 
He has not been charged in the deaths of the eouple in a Canandaigua home, but proseeutors were seeking first-degree murder charges in those slayings. 
Debris falls from sky in Texas 
DALLAS -The Federal Aviation Administration has reeeived numerous reports of falling debris aeross Texas, which eould be related to a reeent satellite collision. 
Some of the callers around midmorning Sunday reported what looked like a fireball in the sky. 
FAA spokesman Roland Herwig says offi­cials suspect the debris could be related to the collision, but that has not been con­firmed. 
The FAA notified pilots Saturday to be aware of possible debris after a collision Tuesday between U.S. and Russian commu­nication satellites. The chief of Russia's 

LOCAL NEWS 
Maple syrup production slows 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -Indiana's recent stretch of mild winter weather has been a wel­come break from the cold for most Hoosiers, but not for the state's maple syrup makers. 
The warm conditions have slowed the flow of sap from maple trees tapped at two Vigo County park as part of a February ritual to colleet sap to be cooked into maple syrup for an annual fundraising breakfast. 
County parks superintendent Keith Ruble said he hopes eold weather returns soon so that his crews can extract more sap from trees at Fowler Park and nearby Prairie Creek Park. 


GOP leader calls for Burris to resign 
Burris faced with allegations of lying to committee investigating Blagojevich 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Just as Illinois was moving past the agony and embarrass­ment of former Gov. Rod Blagojevich's ousting, the fellow Demoerat whom Blagojevich appointed to the U.S. Senate Was hear­ing calls for his own resig­nation Sunday amid alle­gations he lied to legisla­tors. 
Freshman Sen. Roland Burris released an affi­davit on Saturday that contradicts his statements last month to a House committee investigating Blagojevich's impeaeh­ment. 
"I can't believe anything that eomes out of Mr. Burris at this point," Rep. Jim Durkin, the impeach­ment committee's ranking Republican, said at a news conference Sunday. "I think it would be in the best interest of the state if he resigned because I don't think the state can stand this anymore." 
But an adamant and sometimes emotional Burris told reporters in Chicago later Sunday that he hadn't done anything wrong and never misled .anyone. 

''I've always eondueted take against Burris, said Burris reflects a major 4 affidavit disclosing the myself with honor and Dawn Clark Netsch, a omission from his testimo­contact with Robert integrity," he said. "At no Northwestern University ny in January when an Blagojevich because ques­time did I ever make any law professor and former Illinois House impeach­tioning during his January inconsistent statement." Illinois Comptroller. ment committee specifical­testimony abruptly 
Gov. Pat Quinn, who ''I'm not aware that any­ly asked if he had ever changed course and he advanced to the governor's thing quite like this has spoken to Robert never got a chance to mansion after Blagojevich happened in any state Blagojevich or other aides answer a direct question was ousted over corrup­before," she said. to the now-deposed gover­about Blagojevich's broth­tion allegations last Based on federal law, nor about the seat vacated er. month, also ealled on the state Senate could by President Barack The affidavit, released Burris to explain the con­argue that Burris was a Obama. Saturday by Burris' office tradietion. temporary appointment, U.S. Senate Majority after it was first reported 
"My opinion is that he then pass a bill calling for Leader Harry Reid said by the Chicago Sun-Times, owes the people of Illinois a special election to name Saturday he was reviewing said Robert Blagojevich a complete explanation," a p~rma!lent senator, the disclosure, the latest called him three times ­Quinn said, aecording to Netsch said. twist for Democrats who once in October and twice spokesman Bob ~eed. But Quinn's hands may only consented to seat after the November elec­
Durk:in and House be tied. Burris on the belief that tion to seek his Republican Leader Tom "I don't see anything there was no chance of fundraising assistance. Cross also want an investi­that the current governor "pay for play" politics sur­Robert Blagojevich's gation of Burris for possi­could do, except to ask for rounding his appointment. attorney has said his client ble perjury. legislation to ask for a spe­But Burris explained believes one of the conver­
It's not dear what action cial election," N etsch said. Sunday that he voluntarily sations was recorded by state legislators could now Saturday's diselosure by gave the committee a Feb. the FBI. 


JAPAN 

Japan's economy dropping at quickrate 
Associated Press  tion and profits in the coming months.  "There has been an unprecedented  
A survey of economists by the Kyodo  large decline in exports and production­ 
TOKYO  -Japan's economy contract­ news agency had projected an 11.6 per­ ·  related indicators in particular, not only  
ed in the fourth quarter at the fastest  cent fourth-quarter contraction.  in Japan but throughout Asia."  
pace in 35 years as a collapse in global  Japan had its third straight quarter of  Japan's real exports plummeted a  
demand battered the world's second­ decline. The GDP fell 1.8 percent in the  record 13.9 percent in the fourth quar­ 
largest economy.  July-September period.  ter, the government said, as the deepen­ 
·Japan's gross domestic product, or the  Fourth-quarter GDP fell 3.3 percent  ing global slowdown choked off demand  
total value of the nation's goods and  from the previous· three-month period,  for the country's cars and gadgets. An  
services, dropped at an annual pace of  and for 2008, it contracted 0.7 percent  appreciating yen also hurt the country's  
12.7 percent in the October-Deeember  -the first decline in nine years, aceord­ exporters, including Toyota Motor Corp.  
period, the government said Monday.  ing to tpe Cabinet Office.  .  and Sony Corp.  
That's the steepest drop for Japan·  With recovery nowhere in sight, Japan  Japanese electronics company Pioneer  
since the oil shock of 197 4. It far out­ is now in the midst of its worst downturn  Corp. said last week it will cut 10,000  
paces declines of 3.8 percent in the U.S.  since World War II, analysts say.  jobs globally, joining a growing list of the  
and 1.2 percent in the euro zone.  "Since October, economie indicators  country's corporate giants scrambling to  
The contraetion underscores the vul­ have deteriorated at a pace that defies  slash their payrolls. Sony Corp. is shed­ 
nerability of Asia's export-driven  any  rule  of ·thumb,"  Tetsufumi  ding 8,000 workers, while Nissan Motor  
economies during global downturns and  Yamakawa, chief Japan economist at  Co. and NEC Corp. are each cutting  
point toward more cuts in jobs, produc- Goldman Sachs, said in a recent report.  20,000.  


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 16, 2009 

the. ~pL;;p0e. . ~~eock'.te:lLLs II 



Ticket 
continued from page 1 
usually don't arise unless you're in a leadership posi­tion," she said. 
The two think their plat­form, which includes further­ing actions which current stu­dent body president Mickey Gruscinski and vice president Sarah Falvey have alr.eady taken, has feasible ideas that will help make Saint Mary's a better place. 
The two have been cam­paigning in the Student Center and have a Facebook group devoted to their plat­form called "Don't Hassle the Hoff," a play on Hoffman's last name. 
The pair want to install printers in every residence hall, improve the dining hall with student surveys, offer a Saint Mary's College history lecture series, continue the effort to extend the student center hours, which Gruscinski and Falvey began, and offer quarterly'"open forum" Board of Governance meetings for students, accord­ing to flyers they passed out. 
Both candidates also said that they will not take a stipend, or a payment for serving student government, even if the new Student Government Constitution would leave room for it. 
"If one is offered it will not be taken." Hoffman said. "We've been through that before and, while it was won­
derful  to  have  student  
involvement  and  it  was  
resolved well,  we  want to  

reassure everyone that it's not an issue." 
The Constitution committee, which is lead by Falvey, is still putting the finishing touches on the Constitution, which will then be presented to BOG and finally voted on by the stu­dents. Falvey told The Observer it will most likely be available to vote upon during Class Board elections during the last week of February. 

At the "Meet the Candidates" event, elections commissioner Francesca Johnson asked the candidates, including juniors Mallory Price and Katie Lewis, who have since dropped out of the race for personal reasons, a number of questions ranging from how they would describe Saint Mary's to a prospective student to whether or not they think it is important to follow rules. 
"Saint Mary's is so rare, not only in the fact that it is a women's. college, but in the fact that it's a Catholic envi­ronment," Hoffman said, when asked what she would tell a prospective student. "It's a very well-rounded school and it's the incredible women [here] who make it so." 
The vice presidential candi­dates answered the question regarding rules. 
Griffin said she· thinks rules are important and she hopes the new Constitution will have "some awesome rules we can follow." 
Hoffman summed up the pair's platform by saying they want more student involve­ment and awareness on cam­pus. 
"It would be an honor for me to represent the College," Hoffman said. 
Voting takes place today on PRISM until 11:59 p.m. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ALLISON AMBROSEfThe Observer Students line up to order Subway sandwiches. The LaFortune Subway branch does not offer the $5 footlong deal. 

Subway 
continued from page 1 
same way as me. They wanted $5 footlongs," Traub _?aid. 
Hinckley said that because of the Flex Point system, "they can get a way with charging more per sandwich than peo­ple are aware of." 
After seeing that other stu­dents were interested, Traub and Hinckley, along with soph­omores Colin McNamara, Andrew Baeckstrom and Dom Golab, submitted a letter to The Observer calling for the boycott of Subway. 
Hinckley said he didn't see a significant jump in group membership after The Observer printed their Letter to the Editor, but the group currently has over 1,400 mem­bers. 
Traub said he started discus­sions in the Facebook group about the possibility of creat­ing T-shirts and pamphlets. 

The next step, Traub said, is to meet with student govern­ment and work on focusing the boycott to a specific amount of time, like one week, so that it will be more effective. 
Traub said he plans to meet with student body vice presi­dent Grant Schmidt in the next week to discuss options. 
It is each student's individual choice whether or not to eat Subway, Traub said, but he personally "[doesn't] plan on buying it any time soon." 
"It's to.ugh at 8 o'clock when it's kind of too late to go to the dining hall and they're no other options really, but I've been getting by," Traub said. 
Hinckley has also beeh sur­viving without eating Subway. 
"I haven't been eating Subway for a. long time because of the $5 footlong deal," Hinckley said. ''I'm hav­ing to eat more at the dining hall which I guess is punish­ment enough." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Brazil 
continued from page 1 
parade. They were then judged in groups of two to see which pair had the best costume. 
While the parade served as one facet of the evening, there were many other actiVities that went on throughout the event. 
Chicago Samba, a band that plays shows in both Chicago and Saint Louis, played on stage for a couple of hours to the crowd that had gathered. There was a large dance area filled with people listening and dancing to the Brazilian music. 
There was also a group of-
dancers who came on stage to teach those at the event how to samba dance. 
Door prizes were awarded throughout the evening. 
"Carnaval!" received a lot of press around the South Bend area, which helped lead to a substantial turnout of atten­dees. Sendor said that she was surprised at the volume of peo­ple the event received. 
"We were hoping for five or six hundred people to attend the event, but I was surprised that so many did show up," she said. "We are keeping track by the number of beaded neck­laces that we hand out as a means for keeping track of the number of people in atten­dance." 

A large percentage of the people in attendance were from the South Bend community. While there were many families in attendance, there were also a number of elderly people in attendance. 
"This year we were hoping to have a higher turnout among the Notre Dame student popu­lation," Sendor said. "This event helps to bridge the gap between the campus communi­ty and the rest of South Bend, so it was important that we try to connect them the best we can." 
Contact Elizabeth O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

"TV1eve v\/etS li\-O ~;·M1c.e to cuc:ldJe... '' 
.. ......................................................................... .......................................................................................
·-·~ 
.-~ ..t::J.~G:h0~L:??G:£Ltt 

tee ··.§ RoLes· of VVteV'v .§··WoVVLeVG 
V~At4SCvc.L~tALtk) -pprtrBt;G0 LVL-ppptALnv 9:L1:~\Lt{t?? 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, February 16, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 7,850.41 --82.35
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,186 103 1,873 292,118,488 
AMEX 11401.12 -454 NASDAQ 1,534.36 . 7.35 NYSE 5,206,76 A9:()9 S&P 500 826.?4 .g.35 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 71779AO (};00 FTSE 100 (London) 4,189.59 -12.65 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY)  -1.08  -0.90  82.76  
BK OF AMERICA (SAC)  ·5.11  -0.30  5.57  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -3.80  -0.35  8.85  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.46  -0.14  30,43  
Treasuries  
lO·YEAR NOTE  +5.68 +0.1550  2.88  
13·WEEK BILL  +1.75  0.00  0.29  
30-YEAR BOND  +6.35  +0.22  3.68  
5-YEAR NOTE  ·8.56 +0.1470  1.86  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +3.53  37.51  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  ·7.00  942.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.60  81.50  
Exchange Rates  
YEN 91.8900 EURO 1.2860 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2343 BRITISH POUND 1.4358 


IN BRIEF 
Chrysler, GM labor talks slow 
DETROIT -Concession talks between the 
United Auto Workers and the Detroit Three shifled 
into an odd phase Saturday as negotiations broke 
off with General Motors Corp., slowed at Chrysler 
LLC and picked up speed at Forp Motor Co., finan­
cially the healthiest of the three, according to peo­
ple briefed on the bargaining. 
The developments come as GM and Chrysler 
race toward a Tuesday deadline to submit plans to 
show the government how they will become viable 
and repay billions in loans that are keeping them 
alive during the worst auto sales slump in 26 
years. 
Ford, which borrowed billions from private 
sources before credit markets tightened, has said 
it can make it through 2009 without government 
help. 
The Treasury Department has committed to giv­
ing GM a total of $13.4 billion if the automaker's 
plan is approved. GM's plan, however, will raise 
the possibility that more government loans may be 
needed, as sales in overseas markets have deterio­
rated worse than expected, according to a person 
briefed on the plan. 
Evidence mounts in salmonella probe 
ATLANTA -First, federal investigators said 
Stewart Parnell knowingly shipped salmonella­
tainted foods even after internal tests showed they 
were contaminated. Then they revealed the evi­
dence: e-mails Parnell sent to his employees urg­
ing them to ship out the products that authorities 
say ultimately sickened hundreds and may have 
caused the deaths of nine. 
Federal authorities, who started an investigation 
last month, have remained tightlipped about possi­
ble charges against Parnell. So has the FBI, which 
raided the company's Georgia plant about a week 
ago. 
But food safety attorneys say prosecutors have 
an array of options for what could be one of the 
Food and Drug Administration's most high-profile 
tainted food cases in decades. 
"Any time you've got interstate commerce, those 
are the buzz words for federal prosecution," said 
Kent Alexander, a former U.S. attorney in Atlanta 
who is now general counsel at Emory University. 
"And prosecutors can be very creative in alleging 
schemes involving interstate commerce." 


Stimulusexpected to restartmine cleanup 
Efforts to clean up· abandoned mines will get a boost when Obama signs bill 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -When the Beal Mountain mine opened in 1988 near Butte, Mont., its owner promoted open-pit cyanide leaching for extracting_ gold from ore as _modern and environmentally friendly. 
Pogasus Gold Corp .. a Canadian company, extracted nearly 460,000 ounces of gold over a decade before closing the mine and deelaring bank­ruptcy in 1998. 
It left behind a 70-acre, cyanide -con tam in aJe d leach pond with a leaky liner and tons of r·ubble that sends selenium-laced runoff into streams, threatening cutthroat trout and other fish. The $6.2 million reclamation bond posted by the company doesn't come close to cov­ering the full cost to clean up the mine, which could total nearly $40 million. 
"There is a real ticking time bomb up there," said Josh Vincent, president of a Trout Unlimited chapter near the mine, which sits on U.S. Forest Service land. 
Efforts to clean up one of the West's most enduring and dangerous legacies ­tens of thousands of aban­doned hardrock mines, many dating to the 19th century -should get a last Sept. 30, according to water pollution, eliminate with arsenic have been left boost from the economic the staff of Sen. Dianne public safety threats, and behind. stimulus bill awaiting Feinstein, D-Calif., one of restore fish and wildlife The Environmental President Barack Obama's the lawmakers who sought habitat in rural communi­Protection Agency esti­signature. the money. ties across the country," mates it could cost as 
The final bill, approved Projects ranging from said Lauren Pagel, policy much as $50 billion to by the House and Senate repairing trails to replac­director for Earthworks, clean up all the nation's on Friday, contains more ing equipment also are eli­an environmental group abandoned hardrock than $1.5 billion for con­gible for the money, so focused on mining issues. mines. struction and maintenance there is no guarantee the The Government Anti-tax groups ques­projects in the Bureau of money will be spent on Accountability Office esti­tioned whether mine clean Land Management, the mine cleanup. The bill mates there are at least up merits funds at all, con­National Park Service and says preference is sup­161,000 abandoned sidering that the bill is the Forest Service. That posed to go to projects that hardrock mines in Alaska intended to jump-start the includes addressing pollu­generate most jobs. and 11 other western economy. Cleanups are tion and safety hazards Advocates for cleaning states, plus South Dakota. temporary and unlikely to caused by abandoned up abandoned mines say Open mine shafts and have any lasting economic mines on public lands. the work is a strong job­decaying struotures pose effect, said Pete Sepp, a 
The three agencies generator. safety hazards, contami­spokesman for the together spent about $25 "These much needed nants are polluting National Taxpayers Union, million on mine cleanup in funds will create thou­streams and groundwater, which advocates for less the budget year that ended sands of jobs, reduce and piles .of tailings tinged government spending. 

Economytestshistoricallyblackcolleges 
large reduction in the value of those ing of their mainstream counterparts. 
Associated Press endowments." Most students at the colleges com­ATLANTA-Historically black col­Most colleges are dealing with eco­bine grants and loans to fund their leges and universities, which for nomic problems. One recently educations, Lomax said. Just a small decades have been educating students released survey on 791 American percentage get help from their par­who can't afford to go -,-or can't public and private colleges reported ents, and others work retail or fast imagine going -elsewhere, have that endowments fell 3 percent in the food jobs to make tuition. been particularly challenged by the fiscal year ending June 30, and a An Associated Press analysis nation's economic meltdown. smaller group estimated a 23 percent showed that 62 percent of students at Enrollments at the schools have drop in the first five months of fiscal 83 four-year HBCUs receive Pell declined at the same time endow­year 2009, which began in July. The Grants. More than 90 percent of those ments have dropped and fundraising numbers represent a decline nearly recipients come from families earning sources have dried up. The same is double that of any full-year return less than $40,000 a year. true at most universities, but often since such figures were first tracked Lomas expects HBCUs to survive, students at HBCUs need more aid to in 1974. but they may have to make some stay on course. Only three black colleges -Howard painful choices to do it. "What's most difficult for our institu­Univ'ersity in Washington, D.C., "These are institutions that have tions is that they are tuition-driven," Spelman College in Atlanta and made it through the Great Depression said Michael Lomax, president of the Hampton University in Virginia -had and other cyclical downturns," he United Negro College Fund. "They endowme:ots among the top 300 said. "What we're doing is counseling don't have large endowments, and included iri the survey. Most lack the schools to tighten their belts as much even the ones who do, have seen a resources and strength in alumni giv-as possible." 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 16, 2009 
Hospitals look to boost nurse retention rates 
Stresses ofjob lead to high turnover in U.S. 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -Newly minted nurse Katie ()'Bryan was. deter­mined to stay at her first job at least a year, even if she did leave the hospital every day wanting to quit. 
She lasted nine months. The stress of trying to keep her patients from getting much worse as they waited, some­times for 12 hours, in an over­whelmed Dallas emergency room was just too much. The breaking point came after paramedics brought in a child who'd had seizures. She was told he was stable and to check him in a few minutes, but O'Bryan decided not to wait. She found he had stopped breathing and was turning blue. 
"If I hadn't gone right away, he probably would have died," O'Bryan said. "I couldn't do it anymore." 
Many novice nurses like O'Bryan are thrown into hospi­tals with little direct supervi­sion, quickly forced to juggle multiple patients and make critical decisions for the first time in their careers. About 1 in 5 newly licensed nurses quits within a year, according to one national study. 
That turnover rate is a major contributor to the nation's growing shortage of nurses. But there are expanding efforts to give new nursing grads better support. Many hospitals are trying to create safety nets with residency training programs. 
"It really was, 'Throw them out there and let them learn,"' said University of Portland nursing professor Diane Vines. The university now helps run a yearlong program for new nurses. 
"This time around, we're a little more humane in our treat­ment of first-year grads, know­ing they might not stay if we don't do better," she said. 
The national nursing short­age could reach 500,000 by 2025, as many nurses retire and the demand for nurses bal­loons with the aging of baby boomers, according to Peter Buerhaus of Vanderbilt University Medical Center. The nursing professor is author of a book about the future of the nursing work force. 
Nursing schools have been unable to churn out graduates fast enough to keep up with the demand, which is why hospitals are trying harder to retain them. 
Medical school grads get on­the-job training during formal residenCies ranging from three to seven years. Many newly licensed nurses do not have a similar protected period as they build their skills and get used to a demanding environment. 
Some hospitals have set up their own programs to help new nurses make the transi­tion. Often, they assign novices to more experienced nurses, whom they shadow for a few weeks or months while they learn the ropes. That's what O'Bryan's hospital did, but for her, it wasn't enough. 
So more hospitals are invest­ing in longer, more thorough residencies. These can cost roughly $5,000 per resident. But the cost of recruiting and training a replacement for ·a nurse who washed out is about $50,000, personnel experts estimate. 
One national program is the Versant RN Residency, which was developed at Childrens Hospital Los Angeles and since 2004 has spread to 70 other hospitals nationwide. One of those, Baptist Health South Florida in the Miami area, reports cutting its turnover rate from 22 percent to 10 percent in the 18 months since it start­ed its program. 
The Versant plan pairs new nurses with more experienced nurses and they share patients. At first, the veterans do the bulk of the work as the rookies watch; by the end of the 18­week training program, those roles are reversed. 
The new nurses must com­plete a 60-item checklist. They must learn how to put in an IV line and urinary catheter; inter­pret dif(erent heart rhythms and know how to treat them; monitor patients on suicide watch and do hourly checkups on very critically ill patients; know how to do a head-to-toe physical assessment on a p.atient, as well as how to inform families about the con­dition of their loved one. 
For Yaima Milian, who's cur­rently in the program at Baptist, this is markedly differ­ent from the preparation she got at her first hospital in New Jersey. She left after a six-week orientation because she didn't feel ready to work solo. 
While Milian was paired with a more experienced nurse at the New Jersey hospital, they didn't see patients together;· they split the workload. Her first week on the job, Milian was charged with caring for several patients with complicat­ed issues -those on ventila­tors and with chest tubes ­and she felt thoroughly unpre­pared. 
"It just didn't feel right, it felt very unsafe," Milian said. 
Besides the residency's pro­fessional guidance, which includes classroom instruction, new nurses also get personal support from mentors -people they can call after a bad day or to get career advice. The new nurses also gather with their peers for regular debriefing, or "venting" sessions. 
"Here you have this group that is pretty much experienc­ing the same things you're experiencing," Milian said, "and it makes you feel better." 
To be sure, not all the nurses who leave do so because of a rocky transition. But for nurses who do leave because of stress, these programs seem to help. 
The American Association of Colleges of Nursing and the University IlealthSystem Consortium teamed up in 2002 to create a residency primarily for hospitals affiliated with uni­versities. Fifty-two sites now participate in that yearlong program and the· average turnover rate for new nurses was about 6 percent in 2007. 
"We believe all new gradu­ates should be given this kind of support system," said Polly Bednash, the nursing associa­tion's executive director. "We are facing downstream a hor­rendous nursing shortage as a large number of nurses retire from the field... So you need to keep the people you get and ~ keep them supported." 

Obama plans auto recovery strategy 
President will appoint senior officials to oversee restructuring 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama plans to appoint senior administra­tion officials -rather than a single "car czar," as had been discussed ...:.._ to oversee a restructuring of the auto industry. 
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and National Economic Council Director Lawrence Summers will oversee the across-the­government panel, a senior administration official said Sunday on the condition of anonymity because no announcement had been made. 
"The president under­stands the importance of this issue and also understands that the auto industry affects and is affected by a broad range of economic policies," the official said. · 
As the teams move for­ward, Obama "wantsto make sure that we're getting the expertise and input of agen­cies across the government," the official said. 
Obama and his aides face difficult choices on the fate of the U.S. auto industry, weighing the cost of pouring billions more into struggling companies against possible bankruptcies that could undermine plans to jump­start the economy. 
General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC are racing against a Tuesday deadline to submit plans to the gov­ernment. The plans arc to be followed by weeks of intense negotiations ahead of a March 31 deadline for the final versions of the reports. 
GM and Chrysler are living pff a combined $13.4 billion 
Can't decide what to do this summer? Can't decide on just one study abroad location? 
STUDY ABROAD THIS SUMMER THROUGH NOTRE DAME! 
Notre Dame will offer faculty-led programs in: 
Cape Town, South Africa Dublin, Ireland 
SUMMER PROGRAMS INFORMATION SESSION



Paris, Franee 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 5PM

Toledo, Spain 
217 DEBARTOLO 


Vienna, Austria 
www.nd.edu/ "'ois APPLICATION DEADLINE: 3/1/09 
in government loans. If they don't receive concessions by March 31, they face the prospect of having the loans pulled, followed by bankrupt­cy proceedings. 
Any bankruptcy would be particularly painful, with some economists predicting the country could lose 2 mil­lion to 3 million jobs this year and the unemployment rate, now 7.6 percent, could swell past 9 percent by the spring of 2010. 
In television interviews Sunday, White House senior adviser David Axelrod didn't respond directly when asked if the U.S. economy could withstand a GM bankruptcy. Nor did he directly address a question about whether the Obama administration would let GM go into bankruptcy. 
"''m not going to prejudge anything. I think that there is going to have to be a restruc­turing of those companies. I'm not going to get into the mode of how that happens. We'll wait and see what they have to say on Tuesday," he told "Fox News Sunday." 
Executives at the two automakers have said bank­ruptcy is not an option because consumers would not buy cars from a company that might go out of busi­ness. 
"How that restructuring comes is something that has to be determined," Axelrod said. "But it's going to be something that's going to require sacrifice not just from the auto workers but also from creditors, from shareholders and the execu­tives who run the company. And everyone's going to have to get together here to build companies that can compete in the future." 
Enter the President's Task Force on Autos. That group will use officials from the departments of Treasury, Labor, Transportation, Commerce and Energy. Members of the National Economic Council, the White House Office of Energy and Environment, the Council of Economic Advisers and the Environmental Protection Agency will also be involved, according to the administra­tion official. 
Obama also plans to name restructuring expert Ron Bloom a senior adviser to Geithner. 

··------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 16, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Washington painting gets touchup, frame 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The iconic painting that depicts George Washington crossing the Delaware Hiver is getting even more dazzling. The plain frame that held the room-size paint­ing is bning replaced with an ornate recreation of its origi­nal. 
A recently discovered photo­graph showing Emanuel Leutze's "Washington Crossing the Delaware" with an elabo­rate border during an 1864 nxhibition inspired the Metropolitan Museum of Art to replace the plain frame. 
The masterwork's current frame "minimized it," said Carrie Hebora Barratt, the Met's curator of American paintings and sculpture, although it's difficult to imagine how the painting, more than 21 feet by 12 feet, could be missed. 
Leutze painted the master­piece in 1851, depicting Washington and his compan­ions crossing an ice-strewn Delaware River from Pennsylvania to New Jersey. Washington crossed the river on Dec. 25, 1776, in a surprise attack during the Hevolutionary War. 
Eli Wilner. whose company has made frames for the Met, was hired to recreate the origi­nal golden frame -an intri­cate and large project that takes up more than 250 square feet at Wilner's workshop in Queens. 
Leutze had specifically 
ordered the original, which bore shields at each corner and was topped with an eagle crest and a ribbon that marked lines from George Washington's eulogy: "First in War, First in Peace, and First in the Hearts of his Countrymen." 
In the world of frame-mak­ing. "this is by far the largest complex project that anyone's ever undertaken in America," Wilner said. 
About 30 employees have been involved sirrce the process began in November 2007. Wilner said an Ecuadorean carver, Felix Teran, spent near­ly eight months creating the pieces for the crest. 
Work continues on the new frame, as employees painstak­ingly apply clay to the shields or thousands of thin gold leaves to gild the wood. 
Wilner and the Met wouldn't disclose the cost of the frame, but Wilner said anyone who wanted to repeat the effort could expect to pay around $800,000. 
He expected to finish by the end of the March, but the frame would stay with the com­pany for about two years while the Met renovates the American wing, where the painting has hung for decades. 
As work is done to the gallery space, the painting has been moved to another section in its second-floor home because it's too big to fit into an elevator. Rolling it up -as it was trans­ported to the museum more than a century ago -would cause damage. 


Sin City vvorries about its in1age 
Companies cancel Las Vegas meetings for fear ofappearing frivolous 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -Sin City is wor­ried that its well-honed style is crimping its business. 
Born of carefully crafted slo­gans -"What happens here stays here" -and smiling, sequined showgirls, the image of a 24-hour adult Disneyland with free-Bowing booze and casino chips is making the tourist desti­nation seem radioactive to com­panies keen on not appearing frivolous as they seek gove·rn­ment bailouts. 
In the past two weeks, at least four major companies canceled meetings worth hundreds of thousands of dollars -not because of costs but because of appearances. Even President Barack Obama questioned the propriety of 11ying off to Las Vegas if taxpayers were helping foot the bill. 
Tourism officials, already nervous after watching meeting and convention attendance decline 5 percent in 2008, are challenging the impression that business meetings are wasteful -especially those conducted under the neon lights of Las Vegas. 
"It's necessary, for us to thrive in this community, that folks come here and realize that this is not some stepchild," Las Vegas Mayor Oscar Goodman said. "This is a very important place for people to conduct very important business." 
Goodman -who often appears at functions with a showgirl at each arm -sent a letter this week. to Obama objecting to his remarks. 
"You can't get corporate jets, you can't go take a trip to Las Vegas or go down to the Super Bowl on the taxpayer's dime," Obama said during a town hall 
meeting in Indiana. Obama's comment came after 
. Wells Fargo & Co. canceled a conference at two high-end Las Vegas hotels in response to a barrage of criticism from Capitol Hill after The Associated Press reported on the company's pre­vious luxury-laden trips for its top employees. The company, which received a $25 billion bailout, cried foul in a full-page New York Times ad and said media reports about bailed-out companies have been ~deliberately misleading." The bank said it would cancel all iL<> recognition events this year. Wells Fargo is not alone. Since the fall, companies that have taken $277 billion in federal assistance through the Troubled Asset Relief Program have faced increased scrutiny for travel practices by lawmakers and an angry public. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. moved a three-day conference from the Mandalay Bay hotel­casino to San Francisco, incur­ring a $600,000 cancellation penalty to skip town. U.S. Bancorp, which received $6.6 billion, dropped plans to reward top managers with a trip to Naples, Fla. Morgan Stanley, which has received $10 billion in bailout funds, canceled a trip for top employees to Monte Carlo. Roger Dow, president of the Travel Industry Association, called the growing attention "paralyzing" for corporate meet­ings and events, which repre­sent 15 percent of all travel spending nationwide. "We have to stop this from being epidemic," said Dow. Dow said Wells Fargo should not have canceled. "Personally, I wish that ad had said, 'It was a perfect business 
expense to get the money back to the American taxpayer faster, and this is one of the tools that we use and we will defend them and show anybody that is curi­ous why they arc efl'ective and why they have a great bottom­line result for this organiza­tion,"' Dow said. 
Mich,ael Massari. vice presi­dent of meeting sales and opera­tions for Harrah's Entertainment, Inc., in Las Vegas, said some companies shouldn't have planned trips in the first place. 
"If there are meetings that you're having that are lavish and are boondoggles or that are no longer productive because of the expense, that have diminish­ing returns, then good compa­nies should stop doing those things," he said. 
Massari, however. said the vast majority of meetings -in Las Vegas and elsewhere -are well thought-out. 
Those who promote Las Vegas, the nation's top business travel destination, are quick to list reasons why it's a good place to book meetings. Easy airline ac.cess. 140,000 hotel rooms. Low rates. Plentiful convention facilities. A wide range of dining and entertainment options. 
Las Vegas hosted more than 22,000 meetings, conventions and trade shows last year, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, which markets the city to leisure and business trav­elers. 
For years that promotion has unabashedly included gambling and nightlife. On the convention authority's Web site, a section for meeting planners features photographs of showgirls, the Las Vegas Strip and a roulette wheel. 

Producersreelingfromoutbreak 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Texas -With hundreds of thousands of Americans out of work and the economy in a nosedive, the U.S. peanut industry expected sales to soar this year. 
Americans tend to turn to peanut products to stretch their food dollars in tough times, avoiding more expensive protein sources such as steak and ground beef. 
Enter an ongoing salmonella outbreak that has sickened some 600 people in 43 states and been linked to nine deaths, and those rosy predictions after a record growing season have been clashed. 
"They've tainted our entire industry," said Shelly Nutt, executive director of the peanut producers board in Texas, the nation's second largest growing state behind Georgia. "Public perception is killing us." 
More than 2,000 products have been recalled -one of the largest in U.S. history. And the damage was done by a small player in the industry ­Virginia-based Peanut Corp. of America. Two of the company's plants -in Blakely, Ga., and in Plainview, Texas -have been shuttered after salmonella con­tamination was found. 
The company, which has filed for bankruptcy,' handles no more than 2.5 percent of all peanuts processed, yet sales of jarred peanut butter plummet­ed 22 percent nationwide for the four weeks ending Jan. 24 compared with the same peri­od last year, Nutt said. February's numbers will likely worsen significantly, she said. 
The devastating news came after peanut growers nation­wide last year produced a record crop -2.6 million tons. So many peanuts created a surplus, leading some produc­ers to consider not planting them this year. 
Texas produced 430,000 tons while Georgia had 1.2 million tons. All those peanuts are a big part of each state's economies, worth up to $1 bil­lion in Texas and $2.5 billion in Georgia. 
Patrick Archer, president of the American Peanut Council, an umbrella organization rep­resenting the industry's three major segments -growers, shellers and manufacturers ­said he was aghast at the negli­gence he says was shown by Peanut Corp. President Stewart 
G. Parnell, who investigators have alleged knowingly distrib­uted tainted products. 
Parnell "failed Americans and failed again by refusing to show remorse and or account­ability for those uncon­
scionable" actions, Archer said. Peanut Corp. denies any wrongdoing. 
American food manufactur­ers use almost 2 billion pounds of peanuts a year in a range of products. More than 1 billion pounds go into peanut butter. 
Recalls now include cookies. crackers. cereal. candy, ice cream, pet treats and much more and the government has started a criminal investiga­tion. 
Hegaining consumer confi­dence is paramount. and food manufacturers may be hesitant to purchase large quantities of peanuts, given the plummeting demand following the out­break, West Texas peanut farmer Ted Higginbottom said. 
"It is unfortunate peanut farmers can do everything right to produce a healthy and safe product to feed both their families and the nation, and then have to carry the burden for something they could not control," he said. 
The outbreak was traced to Peanut Corp.'s Blakely, Ga., plant. where inspectors found roaches, mold and a leaking roof. A Food and Drug Administration inspection report found that the company shipped peanut products that tested positi'tle for salmonella on 12 occasions from the plant from 2007-2008. 

THE OBSERVER 
... 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, February 16, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839. 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudents ofrhe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advenisemenrs, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned etlitorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department etlirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofrhe aurhors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. Lerrers to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions ~garding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000} is: puhlillhc:d Monday through Frid~y n<;.ept during ~m -and va..:ariun periods. A subscription to l1w;: Oh~rw:r is $100 t"Pr one aC;J.dcmk ~;.$55 for om: sen1esrcr. 
Th~ Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

OU Sourh Dining Hall Send addrus rorreaions to: 
Norrt Danw:, IN 46S56-0n9 ThcObstt"'(r 
Periodical posuge paid at Notre Dame P.O. Bor.:779 

and additional ma.iling offioes. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte Damt::, IN 46556-0779 
1bc-Observer ii 11 mc:mbcr ofthe J\ssoci.;![ed Press. All t~roducrion righu arc: re.ervc!:d. . 
I visited a friend in Rome this past weekend. To clarify, I am studying abroad in Innsbruck this year, so it wasn't a Chicago-Rome weekend con­nection or anything. But as we toured the beautiful city, I 
Notre Rome 
80,000. And you should see the 
upkeep here! Field rotted through, 
bleachers completely gone, I don't 
know how people can stand it. Or 
stand on it, for that matter. 
Next, Kyle took us to the hill. 
was astonished by Admittedly, we do not have one of what struck me the those in South Bend. But on top of it most. was this huge complex with a gym 
They are copying and track and pool and living quar­us. ters -all in the same building! At 
It was like walk­Notre Dame we at least spread that ing through an out, separate residential from recre­Italian Notre ational. We don't have palm trees, but Dame. First, my one thing ostensibly missing from friend Kyle showed Home? Ducks. Not that they are relat­me the stadium ed to palm trees, but I'm just saying, (top priority, just we have ducks. like at Notre After that, Kyle took us to the Dame). We didn't "Forum." Not to rub it in, Rome, but manage to get tick­we have one of those, too ... 

Jackie Mirandola­Mullen 
Guest Columnist 

ets for anything, but we figured it would still be nice to see. But as I stared up at the huge brick, mortar and stone that uninterruptedly encap­sulated the arena within, I was reminded peculiarly of Notre Dame Stadium. No touchdown Jesus staring from behind the -wait, actually, no goal posts either. To think, a stadium with no football! 
As we toured it, though, I did feel a little consolation in learning that it only holds 50,000 people, paling in comparison to Notre Dame's circa 
From the pedestrian-only (sound familiar?) Forum, we headed to the Vatican. This was actually the next day, after having had enough of Rome's unoriginality and needing an overnight break. It had nothing to do with being tired or needing sleep. or course not; not in the eternal city. 
I entered hopefully: Maybe the Homan Catholic Church could do bet­ter within the borders of its self-regu­lated nation. The first thing I notice? Priests. Everywhere. And nuns. I did­n't have to think too hard to remem­ber where I've seen that before. 
Walking through the doors, I was, as most people who have visited can also attest to, instantly met with a sense of awe by the grandeur and sheer size of St. Peter's Basilica. 
And even this did not last. This was getting tiring. As we walked in fur­ther, I saw, above the altar, an enor­mous dome with -get this -blue and gold painted the whole way around! Oh, the humanity! They took the main ideas from our two most treasured buildings and combined them into one! 
I was confused. How could Rome be that unoriginal? Do they not realize that these are our traditions? How embarrassing! Maybe sometime the Romans will make it to Notre Dame and see how widespread our culture is, to reach them in Rome all the way from northern Indiana. I hope that they're proud of it. T\yo thousand years of rigid tradition is great, if you know for sure that's what you want. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a junior History and German major, who is currently studying in lnnsbruck, Austria. Her favorite part ofItaly was the 2,000 year-old Forum toilets at Pompeii. She can be reached at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Respect for flag 
Last night I had the unfortunate task of trekking across South Quad a few minutes before 9 p.m. My Notre Dame fleece was little protection against the monsoon-like condi­tions, which I (as a southern California native) still can't comprehend. But what really bothered me was that the flag on South Quad remained at full mast in the sideways rain, battered like a ship from its moorings in a tempest. This is against all rules of etiquette regarding the Star-Spangled Banner. I hope that in the future whoever is in charge of the flag pole, whether it is General Services or Groundskeeping or what, will take better care to preserve the integrity of the flag as a symbol and the individual flag which suffers dam­age in poor weather conditions. 
Brandon Payne junior Morrissey Manor Feb. 4 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Sam Werner Becky Hogan Meaghan Veselik Will the men's basketball team make "/(man is to survive, he will have 
Irena Zajickova Alex West learned to take a delight in the
the NCAA tournament? 
essential differences between men

Graphics Scene 
and between cultures. He will learn 

Andrea Archer Analise Lipari 
that differences in ideas and

Yes
Viewpoint attitudes are a delight,
No
Lianna part oflife's exciting variety, 
not something to fear." 
Brauweiler 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com Gene Roddenberry 
screenwriter/producer 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, February 16, 2009 page 11 
How Notre Dame sneakily killed off the Queer Film Festival 
Three years ago, when pinned down by the media, Father John Jenkins told the New York Times, Associated Press and Fox News Channel that-gulp, yeah, okay-the Queer Film Festival could continue. 
The festival usually Tom O'Neil occurs this month around Valentine's 
Guest . Day. Where is it? Columnist Well. not only will there be no gay film festival this year, it's probably kaput for good. After failing to snuff out the festival in its early years by force of will, Notre Dame recently sue­. ceeded in killing it off quietly, slowly and deviously behind the scenes. The result: a gay bashing successfully-pulled off by one of the most notoriously anti-gay universi­ties in America. The Notre Dame Queer Film Festival was launched in 2004 by the gay student group OutreachND, the Gay and Lesbian Alumni Association of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College, the Gender Studies Program, the Counseling Center and the Departments of English, History, Anthropology and Film, Television and Theater. Over the next few years, as an academ­ic event, the Queer Film Festival was a smash success, staging, for example, the Indiana premiere of "Brokeback Mountain" and drawing such notable filmmakers to campus as John Cameron Mitchell ("Hedwig and the Angry Inch"), Notre Dame alum Don Roos ("The 
Opposite of Sex," "Boys on the Side," "Single White Female"), Brian Dannelly ("Saved") and four-time Tony Award win­ner Terrence McNally ("Love! Valor! Compassion!"). 
It was a miracle; frankly, that the Queer Film Festival was permitted to exist at such a conservative Catholic school, but it got launched in the waning days of the presidency of Monk Malloy, who was too battle-weary to put up a fight. Over previ­ous years, Malloy had mounted a zealous crusade against homosexuality -at one point even throwing the gay-student group off campus-that not only failed, but resulted in his public humiliation when the Faculty and Student Senates passed resolutions denouncing his actions. Throughout the drama, the gay students were valiantly backed up by public protest events involving faculty and hundreds of straight students. 
.-When Jenkins became president, it was obvious that he wanted to kill off the festi­val. He said in a speech to students and faculty: "Precisely because academic freedom is such a sacred value, we must be clear about its appropriate limits. I do not believe that freedom of expression has absolute priority in every circum­stance." On the eve of the Queer Film Festival opening in 2006, reporters from the New York Times, Associated Press and Fox News Channel landed on campus to see what Jenkins would do. Before Jenkins could do anything, he 
got upstaged and overruled. The New York Times reporter got to Father Theodore Hesburgh, who endorsed the fest, as he had years earlier when he'd met privately with the festival organizers and literally gave us his blessing. 
"I think the real test of a great universi­ty is that you are fair to the opposition and that you get their point of view out there," Hesburgh told the Times. "You engage them. You want to get students' minds working. You don't want mindless Catholics. You want intelligent, successful Catholics." 
How could Jenkins-so new on the job -contradict Hesburgh, Notre Dame's saintly champion of civil rights? He could­n't. So when Jenkins was asked by jour­nalists if he'll permit the gay film festival to continue in the future, he said -with obvious reluctance -yes. 
Then the slow, quiet strangulation began to occur behind the scenes. One year later, Notre Dame actually refused to permit the event to use the word "festi­val" in its title because, foes said, it sug­gests that the school "celebrates homo­sexuality." So the event struggled on under the clunkily titled "Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives, Spectatorships." 
In 2007, Notre Dame dealt the final death blow. Not only was the gay and les­bian film festival no longer permitted to use the word "festival," it was forbidden to use the words "gay," "lesbian" or "queer" in itstitle! 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Financial strain may hurt 
acaden1ic reputation 
I was glad to see Father Jenkins' statement that Notre Dame's financial situation is manage­able for the present time. However, I believe he is missing out on the other half of this issue with the current economic downturn. I am concerned with a drop in Notre Dame's academic reputation because a lot of accepted kids are not going to be able to afford Notre Dame this year. The "EFC" is still going to be too risky for families worrying ifthe parents will have a job. You can see that by the recent statement of the University of Michigan's President "welcoming back" private university (she used Dartmouth as an example) transfers back to Michigan if they had been accepted previously. This is a good example of poaching by the top state schools, thus increasing their academic status. 
I think Father Jenkins needs to lead an effort by Notre Dame to help families manage this uncertainty, or Notre Dame will see increased loss of the upper middle class kids that have been accepted (and have been told to pay the $50Kiyr) and have been told by their parents they cannot attend Notre Dame because of their parents' job uncertainty. Notre Dame's drive toward a preeminent research university will be undercut ifthe admissions' yield rate goes substantial­ly down for the Class of 2013 and tbey accept less qualified students. 
v· 
Paul Kane alum class of 1980 Feb. 12 
That nearly killed it, of course. How could it go on without being able to iden­tify itself? Somehow it managed, though. One last time. The event proceeded with no prominent filmmakers in attendance and under the ridiculous name, "Qlassics: Reimagining Sexuality and the Self in Recent American Cinema." 
The result was such a ho-hum disaster that no plans were made to stage it again this year. 
But why hasn't anyone noticed? And why haven't Notre Dame leaders been denounced for the shocking way they killed off the fest? Why hasn't the Faculty or Student Senate issued new resolutions denouncing the university for this? 
Well, let me speak up loudly on the matter: Shame, shame on old Notre Dame. 
At a time when most major Catholic universities are embracing and support­ing their gay students, many even includ­ing a nondiscrimination clause against sexual orientation in their school policies, Notre Dame has again proven to be a most unchristian institution that officially practices prejudice. 
Tom O'Neil is a feature writer and blog­ger for the Los Angeles Times. He was 

... 
editor-in-chiefofThe Observer in 19 76­
77. He is a member ofGALA-NDISMC who helped to launch the Queer Film Festival. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


En1brace the n1ud 

I was appalled and ashamed of my dear friend, Steve DeLaurentis, when I found he wrote the Feb. 11 Viewpoint letter, "Please save me from the mud." In the letter, he notes all the great upsides of warm weather, only to viciously attack one of the results of that weather: the mud. However, his arguments are not only false, but deeply offensive. First and foremost, who is Steve to criticize the the brilliant planning of pathway paving at Notre Dame? Little does he realize that by creating paths "poured in nonsensical patterns," the incredible planners at Notre Dame try to make sure that we 
• students, hurrying as fast as possible in the sub-zero temperatures, take · time to enjoy the wintry, freezing surroundings. By cutting across quads, Steve and his dastardly comrades bypass this plan and actually sully our beautiful lawns. Secondly, and possibly more importantly, why do you critique mud, one of the great substances of Earth? Sure, it may dirty your sneakers, but its ben­efits are so much greater. Without mud, our friends below the border in Mexico could never have fashioned their adobe buildings. Furthermore, without mud, there could be no mud wrestling, a fun and athletic form of exercise in which many a female friend loves to participate. 
So, Steve, I urge you: Forget your shoes and learn to love the mud. 
Colin Keeler freshman Sranfurd Hall Feb. 12 


Teach for a nun1ber of reasons 
As a forme.t; Teach For America corps member, I felt compelled to respond to Brad Blomstrom's Viewpoint piece, "Teach for amateurs" (Feb. 11). Following my grad­uation from Notre Dame in 2004, I joined Teach For America and taught kindergarten, first grade and special education inclusion in Houston, Texas for two years. As a first year teacher, my kindergarten and first grade students made significant academic gains in the classroom by achieving a year and a half of growth in reading and math in just nine months. As a second year teacher, my kinder­garten students placed fifth in the district on the Stanford 10 Achievement Test and had learned an average of95 sight words. After two years of teaching in Houston, I moved back to South Bend and taught Kindergarten for two more years at Coquillard Primary School. I am cur­rently at Harvard Graduate School of Education pursuing my Masters in Education and I hope to return to the class­room. Nearly five years later, I remain dedicated to Teach For America's mission of providing educational opportunity for all. 
Perhaps the most significant and exciting aspect of Teach For America is that the impact I was able make is far from unique to my classroom. Independent research has consis­tently shown the effectiveness of corps members in our nation's highest-need schools. For example, in 2008, a study published by the Urban Institute found that high school students taught by Teach For America teachers out­perform their peers, even those taught by fully certified teachers, and the positive difference of having a Teach For America teacher was three times greater than having a teacher with three or more years experience. To me, that data serves as a testament to the effectiveness of our selec­tion model and the training which corps members receive, as well as a powerful reminder of the growth in achieve­ment that is made possible by top recent college graduates in classrooms across the country. Spending the past four years in the classroom with students, who never thought they could attend college, let alone an institution like Notre Dame, has driven me to dedicate my life to influencing public education in our nation for the better, well beyond my two-year commitment. My experience has profoundly changed me, as it does my fellow Teach For America alums. That's why 67 percent of former corps members remain in the field of education, while 93 percent of Teach For America alums remain in positions that directly impact low-income communities in some way. There are anum­ber of reasons why I teach for America -Sebastian, Mary, and Jay'Den are just a few-but none of them remotely resemble Blomstrom's suggested motives. 
Lucy Patranella Duhon alum class of2004 Feb. II 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Monday, February 16, 2009 
\ 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Editor 

Even if Duncan Sheik is barely breath-· ing, his newest album, "Whisper House," shows that he's still in musical control. 
Sheik is a singer-songwriter best known for his 1996 hit single "Barely Breathing," which almost won him a Grammy for .Best Male Pop Vocal Performance in 1998. In the 13 years since that debut, Sheik's career has taken some surprising turns. "Whisper House" is the artist's latest foray into film and theater -the album's 11 tracks are selections from an upcoming stage musi­cal of the same title. 
"Whisper House" opens with "Better to Be Dead" the most clearly narrative track on the album. "And though I'm sad to say it/ she would be 
album's enduring traits-its sparse, sim­
:-~ -~. :'' :: 

plistic usc of instrumentation. While much of "Whisper House" is based in Sheik's acoustic guitar, the mellow guitar work is often accented by the trumpet, the bells and the occasional oboe. Two of these appear in "And Now We Sing,'' with the oboe wafting through the background of the track. It is the final note of the trumpet, however, that lends an air of loneliness and solitude to the song. 
One of the album's quirkier tracks is "The Tale of Solomon Snell," the story "of an unfortunate man." Sheik's lyrical stylings are at their peak here. His Solomon Snell is no match for his biblical namesake, choosing safety rather than risk. "No matter what you do," Sheik sings, "you'll never be safe." The track's use of bells adds a whimsical touch to a 
melancholy track, and the 
• 
Sheik sings at one point, "Life is naught but pain/ It's better to be dead/ Release your heavy heart! Resf your weary }}cad." 
Sheik then eases into "We're Here to Tell You," whose creepy tone and waning vocals create the aura of ghostliness that returns throughout the work. "We're here to tell you/ ghosts are here for good," he sings. "If this doesn't terrify you, it should." Sheik's voice has a subtle, almost casual quality to it that cab risk boring his listeners, but he toes that line well on "We're Here to Tell You" and elsewhere on "Whisper House." 
Brook's vocals are prominent on the album's third track. "And Now We Sing." The track helps to establish one of the 
better off dead," Sheik song toys with an almost
"Whisper House" is the 
sings of one character. He folk -like feel. and supporting vocalist artist's latest foray Like others on "Whisper Holly Brook alternately into film and theater House," "The Tale of describe different charac­Solomon Snell" also makes
-the album's I I 

ters who, for lack of a bet­use of sparse orchestral
tracks are selections
ter phrase, would be bet­elements, and the song is ter off dead. from an upcoming one of several that are The track's slow, heavy vaguely reminiscent of
stage musical ofthe 
tone adds to its story­Sufjan Stevens. The male-
same title.

telling sensibilities. As female vocals arc soft and 
' 

Whisper House 
Duncan Sheik Label: RCA Victor 
Recommended Tracks: "Play Your Part," "Earthbound Starlight," ''The Ghost In You" and "And Now We Sing." 
harmonic, but Sheik's rich, distinctive voice anchors the track. 
I

One of the album's more upbeat pieces is "Play Your Part," a lighthearted ditty that most clearly echoes Sheik's past. work. Other highlights include "How It Feels," a slow, dreamlike track that makes effective use of Brooks' talent, and "Take a Bow," one of the more energetic selections from "Whisper House." 
The final song, "The Ghost in You," is a peaceful closing to the album, combining piano elements with soft and swirling vocals. The track is a bonus for the album's iTunes release. 
Sheik, a native of New Jersey and South Carolina, first hit it big with his 1996 self­titled release. Other studio albums 

include 2001's "Phantom Moon," 2002's "Daylight," and 2006's "White Limousine." 
Sheik's foray into stage musi­cals is the latest branch or his career. He spent more than seven years working closely with pvet and writer Steven Sater on "Spring Awakening," a musical adaptation of an infamous 1891 German play. "Spring Awakening" went on to win eight Tony awards after ils Broadway debut in 2007, infused by Sheik's alt-roek and folk score. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, February 16, 2009 
page 13 
• Coming up at South. Bend's • 
: :::Jtlfr'rJi,j ~ ~'16~JTli1~f! : : t_?tt;td Genie!! ·~ : · 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 
tiona! Putnam Valley Middle School. 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
The show is unique in its' improvisa­
Scene Editor 
tional techniques, which include asking 
The spring schedule .at the Morris three or four audience members to also Performing Arts Center is currently participate in that night's spelling bee. well underway. Students should also note that tickets 
With musicians, orchestras and tour­are currently on sale at the Morris Web · ing stage plays on the roster, the venue site for the Umphrey's McGee concert will no doubt be hosting a slew of on April 18. The band last came to the members of the South South Bend area in Bend and Notre Dame September of 2008, play­
On Feb. 2 7, singer
communities. ing a sold-out show at St. 
On Feb. 27, singer and and musican Bonnie Patrick's Park in musician Bonnie Raitt Raitt will Mishawaka. will perform at the A group of Notre Dame
perform at the
Morris. Best known to alumni themselves, college-age audience Morris. Umphrey's is looking to members for her track, capitalize on their grow­"Something to Talk About," Raitt's ing student audience at this upcoming blues stylings have won her nine performance. Grammy awards over the course of her Their jam-band style appeals well to career. college students' tastes. The group 
The daughter of Broadway star John opened for Dave Matthews Band in Raitt, Raitt's past releases include 2007, and the influence is visible in 1989's "Nick of Time," 1991's "Luck of their tastes and performing style, the Draw,'~ 2002's "Silver Lining" and which often allows for improvisation 2005's "Souls Alike." She was inducted from night to night. Brendan Bayliss, a into the Rock and Roll mf}mber of Umphrey's flail of Fame in 2000. McGee, described their 
The South Bend Students should also sound in a Sept. 4 inter-Symphony Orchestra will note that tickets are view with the Observer be performing on as "self-indulgent orches­
currently on sale at
Saturday, Feb. 28 at the tral rock." Morris, presenting their the Morris Web site "We're kind of all over new program, "Tales of for the Umphrey's the map," he said. "So the Classical Guitar." The we're a little progressive
McGee concert on
concert is set to feature in that way. It depends classical guitarist Robert April 18. on what night you see us, Belinic, who has toured really, and what environ-through Europe and the United States. ment we're in. "Tales of the Classical Guitar" will "We have musical ADD -we're include renditions of Maurice Ravel's never really in the same spot." "Mother goose Suite," Zoltan Kodaly's The band will take to the stage of the "llary Janos Suite" and Joaquin Morris in April, returning once more to Rodrigo's "concierto de Aranjuez." the nome of their alma mater. 
In keeping with their series of tour­The band has also played concerts in ing Broadway shows, the Morris is fol­South Bend on the opening football lowing up January's showing of weekend of each Fighting Irish football "Spamalot" with "The 25th Annual season. Putnam County Spelling Bee" on March Students interested in purchasing 13 and 14. "Spcdling Bee" won two tickets to any of these events can visit Tony awards in 2006 for its original · the Morris Performing Arts Center Web Broadway· production. site at www.morriscenter.org. 
This one act musical comedy centers on a fictional spelling ,bee at the fie-Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

Image courtesy of wordpress.com Umphrey's McGee, a band with roots at Notre Dame, will come to the Morris Performing Arts Center on April 18. Tickets are currently on sale for the show. 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 




,. 
Sweet Child 0' Mine 
Nice vibrato, 
buddy. 
What's up, doc? 
rprisel 

2009 Oxford Aim Festival Recreation of Pulp Fiction 
these days. 


page 14 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 16, 2009 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Golab wins unanimous decision against Perry 
Hagmann wears out Vignali over three rounds in win; Jackson stays aggressive all fight to defeat Carrier 

effort to even things up in the third but Diaz had enough left in the tank and ended up winning this exciting contest by unani­mous decision. 
Jordan Smith def. Doug Presutti 

Smith had the advantage from start to fmish, and would not let up on Presutti. Smith fought aggressively and dominantly, and was rewarded with a unanimous first-round victory. 
Ted Grosseteuer def. Jonathan Baker(185) 

It was apparent early that grad­uate student Jonathan Baker's strategy was to work the body, causing senior Ted Grosseteuer to fight more defensively in the first round. 
A bloody nose stopped the fight in the third and after what was one of the day's more even matches the judges declared Grosseteuer the winner by split decision. 
Chris Hapak def. Chris Lacosta 

Graduate student Chris Hapak opened up freshman Chris Lacosta early and never seemed to let up. Lacosta got worked into the corners throughout the early rounds, where he fell victim to several punishing blows and quick combos. 
After being knocked down in the second round, however, Lacosta got up and started land­ing punches of his own. Hapak won by unanimous decision, but credit should be given to Lacosta for what would've enduring a tough fight for any freshman. 
Brian O'Connor def. Jay Smith 
This was probably the closest fight of the weight class. These were two boxers with two very different strategies, but it still provided the audience with an entertaining matchup. For every head shot that O'Connor landed Smith responded with a jab to the body. In the end O'Connor won by split decision. 
John Tchoula def. Yong Xiang Zheng 
It's strange how quickly the tides can turn. Yong Xiang Zheng started off in great form, landing two quick, powerful jabs to soph­omore John Tchoula's head. It only took another 20 seconds, however, (or Tchoula to win the fight at the referee's discretion. After landing a powerful upper­cut, Tchoula waited as Zheng was given the 10-count and decided that the fight could not go on. 
200-pound division· 
Klel Hockett def. David Thaxton 
Both fighters came out aggres­sively, but Hockett gained the advantage after the first two rounds. By the third. however, both fighters became fatigued and Thaxton managed to land a few more punches. It was enough only to achieve a split decision, as Hockett ended up victorious. 
Bart Dear def. Giacomo Mlnafra 
The last match of the evening proved to be one of the most exciting, as both fighters came out at a vicious pace. Minafra refused to stop and take a breath throughout the entire first round. His tenacity gave him an advan­tage early but forced him to back off and protect himself in the later rounds as he became fatigued. By split decision, Bart Dear managed a come-from-behind victory. 
Matt Bono def. Jason Heaser 
Neither fighter seemed to have any advantage at the end of this fight. While Bono landed more punches Heaser landed harder ones. The intensity never slack during this fight and it was one of the few fights where the decision could've gone either way. In the end, however, senior Matt Bono got the nod over grad student Jason Heaser. 
Matt Gray vs. Sean Callinan 
These were two of the most aggressive fighters of the day. There was never a period longer than the three seconds where the two weren't throwing punches. It wasn't until the second round where Matt Gray seemed to pull away as the favorite after landing several clean headshots. The match ended after Gray landed another clean combo, and he won by unanimous decision. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu, Douglas Farmer at dfarmer@nd.edu, Molly Sammon msammon@nd.edu, Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu, Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu, Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu and Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
By ERIC PRISTER, DOUGLAS 
FARMER, MOLLY SAMMON, 
CHRIS MICHALSKI, 
NATHANIEL LEE, BOBBY 
GRAHAM, and CHRIS 
MASOUD 
Sports Writers 
175-pound division 
Dominic Golab def. Jonathon Parry 

After the two boxers exchanged numerous even blows of all sorts before the first bell, Golab evaded Parry's punches in the second two rounds while delivering many of his own. By the end of the third round, Parry was thoroughly gassed, leaving himself defense­less to Golab's closing blows, thus granting Golab a win unanimous­ly. 
Joe Hagmann def. Peter Vignali 

Sporting knee-high socks, Hagmann simply wore Vignali out over three rounds. During the opening round, Vignali had Hagmann pinned against the ropes, but once Hagmann escaped he was able to tag Vignali in the head just before the bell. Following this blow, the fight continued in Hagmann's favor throughout, as he bloodied Vignali's nose in the final round en route to a unanimous decision. 
Pat Jackson def. Patrick Carrier 
Jackson opened the first round aggressively with repeated right­left combinations. In the second round Carrier landed multiple strong right hooks to Jackson's head in a row. 
As the third round began, Carrier dominated the first encounter of the round, but before long he was too exhausted to defend himself from Jackson's rapid jabs, tilting the fight to a unanimous decision for Jackson. 
Mike Lee def. Adam Zaabel 

Lee tried to go on the offensive early with an arsenal of right hooks and body shots but Zaabel was able to successful parry most of Lee's offensive and land a few left jabs of his own. However, Lee took control at the start of the second round with a devastating combo. By the third round, Zaabel was trying unsuccessful to evade Lee's restless assault who won in a unanimous decision. 
Jim Hasson def. Ryan Simmons 

Hasson started out the contest with several combos and jabs while Simmons tried to counter with a series of jabs as well. Hasson started and fmished the second round with a series of combos to the head of Simmons who countered Hasson with a powerful left hook. 
Simmons tried to counter 
Hasson, but was worn out by Hasson's earlier efforts. Hasson prevailed with a unanimous deci­sion. 
Bill Straccia def. Gavin Payne 
Straccia used a powerful right hook to knock Payne oil" his feat 
• early in the first round. Early in the second round, Payne used a right hook of his own to try and level the playing field between the two, but Straccia landed several powerful head blows that kept the momentum in his favor. In the third round, Straccia used a series of combos to force Payne to be defensive and ultimately allowing Straccia to earn a unani­mous victory. 
Mike Doran def. Brian Tower 
Doran went on the offensive early while Tower used defense to parry most of Doran's attack. The two continued their stalemate into the second round with Doran landing several jabs to Tower's head while Tower landed several right hooks. The bout sung into Doran's favor in the third round where he attacked Tower with several spurts of quick jabs. Doran won in a unanimous deci­sion. 
Joesph Meares def. Ethan McWilliams 

It took three rounds and two bloody noses for the judges to name junior Joseph Meares the winner by split decision. Despite being knocked down twice by law student Ethan McWilliams, Meares seemed to have a slight edge for the last two rounds of the fight, endiqg the last round with a nice combination of hooks that probably lingered in the judges' minds when they made their decisions. 
185-pound division 

Leo J. Rubikowski def. Jason Healy 
Healy fought tough throughout all three rounds, getting in his share of punches, but Rubikowski proved to be too quick and strong. The tall southpaw won by unanimous decision. 
Dan Murphy def. Peter Teneriello 

Both boxers came out with a lightning pace, and the tempo stayed fast for all three rounds despite the numerous breaks to stop Teneriello's bleeding. Murphy, however, was too much for Teneriello, and won by unani­mous decision. 
Raphael Diaz def. David Fosselman 

The match was fought fairly evenly through the first round but Diaz claimed the advantage in the second. Fosselman gave his best 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? 
Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. 
Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250­7653. 

613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2· bdrm houses. $350/person. Call574·876·6333. Houses for the 09·1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. 
Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 57 4·234·2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
Student rentals 2009/201 0. St. Peter/SBAve. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 5·7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876· 3537. 
1·3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call 574-232·1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234·2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
House for rent. Very clean 3/4 br, 1.5 bath, 2 living rooms and big backyard. Avail 09· 10 school year. Affordable and very close to campus. 
Call AJ@(440)463·5633. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: 
http :/los a.nd.edulhealth· safety/assault/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safety/assis· tance-for-pregnant-students. 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 16, 2009 CoMPILED FROM T:rrE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 


PGA 

NCAA Men's Bl&rEast Basketball Standings 
team 

.12·1
1 Connecticut 
,••z
2 Pittsburgh 
.18-2
3 Marquette 
1D•2

4 Louisville 5 Villanova 8~4 
8~5
6 Pro11Jdence 
. i 1+6
1 syracuse 
7~6
s Cincinnati 
.tl·6
9 West Vrlginia 
...• fift

9 NOTREDAME .. ... ifi~1 11 seton tlaU 12 Georgetown 
13 South Florida 14 StJOhn's 15 Rutgers 
16 DePaul 
;{:t:;::::;:·: 

NCAA Women'sBigEast·· Basketball StandinfJ$· 
team 

1 Connecticut 2 LJlUsiv!lle 3 Villanova 4 PittSbutgh 
5 ·• DeP;tuL .. 
6. NOTRE llAME 
7 Stiidbflorida·· 8 RutgerS !l .Mafi\l!tltt . 
10 

Associated Press and wind. 2000, when Tiger Woods row, doesn't matter. I'm 12 St Dustin Johnson had a rallied to win from five here to try to win this 13 We$1 Virginia PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. four-shot lead as he tries shots behind, including a tournament." 14 Cincinnati "' -Raging wind that top­to join Anthony Kim as seven-shot deficit with A forecast of wind and 15 Providence .. pled a 40-foot pine and the only players under 25 seven holes to play. One rain made it even more 16 Seton Hall rain that formed puddles with multiple PGA Tour year earlier, the late enticing for Weir, who 
11 
,:m?:===:·· 

on the green forced the victories. A victory would · Payne Stewart had a one­might need some help PGA Tour to postpone the give the 24-year-old shot lead through 54 from Johnson. final round of the AT&T Johnson a spot in the holes when Sunday was "It will be tough on Pebble Beach National Accenture Match Play washed out, and the tour­everybody," Weir said. "It Pro-Am, giving it a Championship at the end nament was cut short io will be fun to see what Monday finish for the first of the month and the first 54 holes because of a happens. There might be time since 2000. two majors of the year, storm system that some ugly golf out there, 
Tee times were pushed including the Masters. stretched to Japan. but it will be fun to see back six hours Sunday ''I'm ready to play," Mike Weir was four who can handle it." 
team until another band of rain Johnson said. "Obviously, shots behind, in the final Mark Russell, the PGA arrived on the Monterey I'll be real ready to play group at Pebble for the Tour tournament director Peninsula. tomorrow after sitting second time in four years, at Pebble, said if half of 
No one teed off, and around for a little over a and wasn't ready to go the field completes the
1 Hope 

there is no guarantee that day, waiting to see what's anywhere. fourth round on Monday,
2 SAINT MARY'S 

the final round will be going to happen." "I want to play. I'm glad the tour is required to
3 Trine 

played Monday, when the The last Monday finish they made this decision," complete all 72.holes no
4 CalVin 

forecast is for more rain at Pebble Beach came in he said. "Today, tomor-matter how long it takes. 
5 Albion 
6 Adrian 

7 Alma 8 · Olivet 9 Kalamazoo IN BRIEF 
Curry's X-rays negative, Bills' Lynch arrested Kenseth wins rain 
day-to-day with sprain on weapons charges shortened Daytona 500 
DAVIDSON, N.C. -Davidson star CULVER CITY, Calif. -Buffalo Bills DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -Matt guard Stephen Curry's injured left running back Marshawn Lynch was Kenseth drove from the back of the ankle is not broken, and the nation's arrested in Southern California on a field to take the Daytona 500 lead leading scorer will be listed as day­weapons charge, police,said Sunday. minutes before the sky opened up, to-day. Police said Lynch was arrested handing the former series champi­
Curry met with doctors on Sunday, Wednesday night after officers on his first victory in NASCAR's ver­
around the dial 
a scheduled off day from practice, approached him and two other men sion of the Super Bowl. 
and underwent X-rays that were sitting in a 2006 Mercedes-Benz in Coming off one of the worst sea­· negative. Coach Bob McKillop said this Los Angeles suburb and found a sons of his career, Kenseth's bad Curry will sit out Monday's practice, loaded firearm. luck followed him into Daytona
College Basketball 
but no determination has been made Lynch was arrested after officers International Speedway. He for Wednesday's game against determined the gun belonged to him. wrecked his primary car, had to goNo. 4 Pittsburgh at No. 1 Connecticut Southern Conference foe The Citadel. He was released that night on to a backup and started Sunday's 
7:00 p.m., ESPN The Wildcats (22-4, 15-1) host No. $35,000 bail. race in last place. 15 Butler on Saturday in a Culver City police did not immedi­But as rain closed in on the sea­Bracketbusters game. ately return a phone message seeking son-opening event, the field turned
Texas at Texas A&M 
"Stephen is very resilient, and he information about why officers it up a notch -anticipating the 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 
has already gotten terrific care from approached Lynch and his compan­race would not go the distance. our medical team," McKillop said. ions. Kenseth used a huge push from NHL "We will monitor his progress on a Lynch's lawyer, M. Gerald Kevin Harvick to pass Elliott Sadler day-to-day basis." Schwartzbach, said his client was not with 54 laps to go. Caution came Curry did not speak to reporters involved in a traffic incident. out moments later for an accident
NY Rangers at St. Louis· 
Sunday, and the school provided no Schwartzbach said the player was in started by Paul Menard, and the 
7:00 p.m., Versus 
further details on the severity of the California to visit friends. rain that had been threatening all sprain. A Bills spokesman had no comment. day finally arrived. 


NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 22 Illini hold off Hoosiers' second half scoring rally 
Virginia ends losing streak,takes down No. 12 Clemson; Loyola-Chicago defeats No. 12 Butler in teams' second meeting 
most notably with Illinois' nine, started making shots
Associated Press 

post players, Mike Davis anct and drawing fouls as the 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Mike Tisdale. Both finished Hoosiers steadily chipped Illinois coach Bruce Weber with 16 points, and Davis away at the lead. spent halftime explaining added 10 rebounds for his The Hoosiers used an 11-4 what it would take to knock sixth double-double of the spurt to get within 46-34 with out Indiana. season. 13:31 to go and when Kyle 
The words didn't exactly The Hoosiers were more Taber, Indiana's only senior, resonate inside the locker short-handed than usual. posted up for a layup with room. Leading scorer Devan 7:38 !Bft, Indiana trailed 54­
After the 22nd-ranked Dumes missed his second 46. Seventy seconds later, Fighting Illini shot 63 percent straight game since being Malik Story grabbed a defen­in the first half and built a suspended by coach Tom sive rebound, dribbled past 21-point lead, Illinois spent Crean a week ago for throw­four Illinois defenders and the second. half fending off ing flag_rant elb.ows at put in a layup to make it ,54­Indiana's feisty rally and held Michigan State. Crean has 48. on for a 65-52 victory Sunday. been consulting with athletic Frazier answered with a 3­
"No matter what you say at director Fred Glass and con­pointer for Illinois and the· halftime, they're not going to ference commissioner Jim Illini outscored Indiana 11-4 have the same edge," Weber Delany to determine the in the final five minutes to said. "That's · length of finally seal it. where you've got Dumes' pun-· "The second half, we kind to be smart. You "No matter what you ishment. of relaxed, we didn't take a don't hit the D u m e s lot of shots we usually take,"
say at halftime,
grand slam when missed Davis said. "But like I said, no one's on base." they're not going to Tuesday's we took their punch and we 
Weber enjoyed have the same edge." game at won the game." 
watching the first Minnesota half when Illinois but Crean Virginia 85, Clemson 81 (21-5, 9"4 Big Bruce Weber would not say CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. Ten) was incredi­lllini coach whether On the day Virginia honored bly efficient. Dumes will its biggest star of the past 
His team was p I a y decade, Sylven Landesberg focused, defended and Thursday against Wisconsin. showed he's ready to assume repeatedly found open shoot­Illinois took advantage the position as the next one. ers. quickly. The freshman guard tied 
The Illini turned that com­It scored seven straight the game on a driving basket bination into a 17-of-27 points to build a 17-7 lead, with 13.4 seconds left in reg­shooting performance that which the Illini extended to as ulation and added six of his included 14 assists, some­much as 36-15 with 2:06 to 23 points in overtime Sunday thing Weber would have trmt­go in the half. as Virginia beat No. 12 ble replicating at practice. For a while, it looked like Clemson 85-81, ending an 
But with a 17-point halftime Illinois was headed to a rout eight-game losing streak on lead and things coming so in this passionate border the day Sean Singletary's No. easily, his players fell into the state rivalry that had all the 44 jersey was hung from the trap. Instead of sharing the trimmings Sunday. rafters. ball and playing its usual Fans chanted "Shut Up Fittingly, Landesberg played style, Illinois desperately Weber" several times during all 45 minutes, becoming the wanted to deliver the blow Indiana's comeback. Illinois first Virginia player to play an 
that would finally make the guard Calvin Brock drew a entire game since Singleta:-ry Hoosiers (6-18, 1-11) relent. technical foul after celebrat­did in a 65-60 victory over 
It never happened on a day ing a one-handed dunk of a Virginia Tech in 2005. Indiana was trying to avoid rebound in the second half. "This win, it's going to help setting one school record, 18 But Indiana kept fighting. us a lot," said Landesberg, losses in a season, and tying "The bottom line is that who had four rebounds, three another with 11 league loss.o­these guys knew we had not assists and three steals. "We es. And it nearly cost the competed up at Illinois, and needed just one win to push Illini, who have won three certainly the first half was us ahead, and this was it." straight and 10 of 14 in the showing signs of that," Crean And they got it mostly series. said. ''I'd like to see how we because of the New York City 
"They changed defenses a play when we don't give a high school star. little bit. didn't guard Chester team that kind of lead to fall "lie's proven this early in (Frazier) and Chester got a back on." his career that he's not only a little shook," Weber said. So after going 6-of-22 from really good player but he's a "Maybe you lose that mental the field in the first half, big money player," said edge a little bit." Indiana played its game. Virginia coach Dave Leitao, 
Indiana had all kinds of Matt Roth, who had 13 who got on the public address problems in the first half, points, and Story, who had microphone on his way off the 

AP 

Virginia Forward Tunji Soroye, back, fouls Clemson guard Demontiz Stitt, front, as he shoots in the second half of Sunday's game in Charlottesville, Virginia. 

court to thank the crowd for court, you've got a chance for contributing to the victory something like this to hap­with its energy and support. pen," Tigers coach Oliver 
It was the first victory for Purnell said. "Any time you Virginia (8-B, 2-8 Atlantic go to overtime, it's anybody's Coast Conference) since it ballgame, particularly if beat Brown on Jan. 6, and you're on the road." ended its longest losing After Oglesby's fifth 3-point­streak since it lost eight in a er gave the Tigers the lead in row in 1997-98. overtime, Tucker scored 
"We desperately needed inside, Zeglinski followed a that," said Sammy Zeglinski. steal by Scott with a layup who hit all six of his field goal and Landesberg followed a attempts, including three 3-Clemson miss with another pointers, and finished with 15 driving basket, giving the points and six assists. Cavaliers an 80-77 lead with 
"It was real emotional and 2:53 to play. from here on out, we know When Booker made it a we can win one-point game t h e s e with two free games," he throws,
"Any time you go to

said. Landesberg scored
overtime, it's 

Key for the on Virginia's next Cavaliers, anybody's ballgame, two possessions, Zeglinski and the Tigers got
particularly ifyou're

said, was the no closer than 
on the road. " 

early going three points there­in the sec-after. ond half, Oliver Purnell In regulation, w h e n Landesberg scored
Tigers coach 

Clemson on a drive with erased a 33-13.4 seconds left 25 deficit by scoring the first to draw the Cavaliers even at 14 points ofthe second half. 7 4, and Clemson missed three 
"They punched us and we times -twice from in close just came back swinging," -in the closing seconds. Zeglinski said. After trailing almost 
Terrence Oglesby had 17 throughout the first half. points, including five 3-point­Clemson opened the second ers, for the Tigers (20-4, 6-4), half on a 14-0 run to take a but his leaning attempt with 39-33 lead. Oglesby hit two 3­about 8 seconds left was well pointers and Rivers had off the mark. When Jamil another as the Tigers' long­Tucker grabbed the rebound range game arrived after they and was fouled under the missed 10 of 11 3-point shots basket, his free throw all but before halftime. · clinched the victory. But instead of fading, as it 
Mike Scott added 18 points, has repeatedly this season, 15 after halftime, and Jeff Virginia responded. Scott Jones scored 12 for Virginia. scored six points in a 13-3 
The Tigers got 16 points run that put the Cavaliers from Trevor Booker and 15 ahead 46-42. They led by as from K.C. Rivers, but they many as five, but the Tigers could not sustain the efficien­rallied to tie it numerous cy they brought out of the times, then went ahead 73-72 locker room at halftime. on Rivers' 10-footer with 1:20 
"If you're not dead-on left. His free throw with 29.4 sharp, you've got a chance, seconds left doubled the lead on someone else's home before Landesberg tied it. 

Monday, February 16, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish win in season opener 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
No. 11 Notre Dame started its season off with a bang this weekend, defeating Duquesne 22-7 in the Irish season opener. 
Ten different'Notre Dame players found the net in the blowout win over the Dukes. 
"I thought the game went great," Notre Dame assistant coach Meredith Simon said. "We were really happy with how our team worked and how they came out right from the start." 
The Irish set• a school record with 49 total shots on goal, 24 in the first half and 25 in the second. The Dukes managed only 18. 
Leading the Irish were junior attacker Gina Scioscia and sophomore midfielder Shaylyn Blaney, a preseason all-Big East team selection. Scioscia came out with seven pt:lints from her four goals and three assists. Blaney finished with four goals, including the first goal of the game 1:51 into play. 
Notre Dame extended their lead to 3-0 less than six minutes into the game with goals from sophomore midfielders Jackie Doherty and Kailene Abt. 
Duquesne netted their first goal 7:10 into the half, but the momentum would be short lived. The Irish scoring drive continued with five straight goals, putting them 8-1 with lit­tle over twelve minutes to go in the half. Sciascia and Blaney each had two more goals, and a pair from team captain Jillian Byers put Notre Dame 14-5 over Duquesne at halftime. 
The Dukes were unable to stop the Irish as they continued their scoring run in the second half, netting another seven con­secutive goals. Blaney again openea the scoring for the half, 
3:26 in. 
Duquesne replied with two back-to-hack goals at 23:18 and 
26:09 into the half, but weren't able to close in on Notre Dame's lead. Byers netted her third goal of the game 26:31 into the half to end the game's scoring and roun-d out the Irish victory to 22-7. 
Other Notre Dame players contributing goals to the Irish victory were Ansley Stewart with three goals and an assist, Kaitlin Keena, Maggie Tamasitis, Meredtth Locasto and Shannon Burke, also a pre­season all-Big East team selec­tion. 
"They played well, they 
· played united. They moved the ball well; created a lot of fast break goals, which we were looking to do and we came out strong," Simon said. Duquense's Meghan Frederick led the Dukes' scoring with three goals and an assist, fol­lowed by Katie Rekart, Shannon Hadaway, Sarah Carson and Ashley Wood, who each scored one goal. Notre Dame opens home play Feb. 20 as they take on the four-time defending national champion Northwestern at 7 
p.m. in the Loftus Center. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles chance at MIAA crown gone with loss 
By BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
Coming into Saturday's game vs. Albion, Saint Mary's chance of winning the MIAA regular season championship was slim. After being handed a 92-63 defeat at the hands of Albion, those chances even smaller. 
Shortly following the Belles' (14-9, 12-3) loss, rival Hope defeated Adrian 102-53, climb­ing to a 13-1 record in the con­ference.. As a result, Hope also holds a one and a half game lead over Saint Mary's as the Belles go into their final game of the season next Saturday against Kalamazoo. 
. Despite the fact that the game was tight for the first couple minutes, Saint Mary's found themselves down 42-22 at the half after allowing Albion to put together a 20-2 run in a five minute span. 
Erin Newsom once again lead the team in scoring with fifteen points and was one rebound shy of a double-double. 
The story of this weekend's game, however, was poor shoot­ing. The Belles could hardly buy a shot Saturday, shooting an abysmal 20.3 percent from the floor in the first half and mar­ginal 37.8 percent in the sec­ond. Other Belles to reach dou­ble figures were Jessica Centa, with a season-high 13 points, and Liz Wade and Katie Rashid each contributed 11 points 
From this point forward, the best Saint Mary's can hope for is a shot at conference co­champion. For this to occur they will need to beat Kalamzoo on Saturday and Hope will need to lose its last two games. While the Belles should not have a hard time defeating a winless Kalamazoo team, the odds of nationally ranked Hope losing both of its last two games are slim to none. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Team wins fourth straight victory over Spartans 
ger serve, but Tyler is a more with in junior tennis are no Irish with a victory over the US Open Juniors at theBy KATE GRABAREK instinctive volleyer and covers longer viable at this level and Brooks 6-2, 6-3. same time Dan was trying to 
Sports Writer 
the net like a blanket. Each has made some good adjust­"Dan has surprised everyone do well sectionally. That is an has the ability to compensate ments in his game style. We . with his ability to move from indication of just how far he 
The No. 25 Irish were able for the other's weaknesses and are just beginning to get No. 6 a year ago to No. 3 has come·." to earn their fourth consecu­the chemistry between them is glimpses of what he might now," Bayliss said. "The Fitzgerald defeated Norville tive victory and improve their growing with each match." become." biggest reasons for this are his at No. 6 singles by a score of overall record to 5-4 Sunday, At No. 2 doubles sophomore Freshman Niall Fitzgerald superb work ethic and com­6-3, 6-4. defeating Michigan State by a Stephen Havens and freshman and sophomore Matt Johnson petitiveness. He has some Freshman Sam Keeton lost score of 6-1. Casey Watt fell to John Allare were able to salvage the dou­great strengths ... the ability his first match of the season at 
The No. 37 team of senior and Jason Norville 8-4. bles point, winning 8-4. to take time away from an No. 5 singles, falling 7-5, 6-3 Brett Helgeson and sophomore "Casey's strengths are his No. 20 Helgeson was able to . opponent and rock solid to Sam Hulewicz. Tyler Davis easily earned a speed, ability to make shots put Allare away at No. 1 sin-ground strokes. He has taken Havens was able to earn a victory over Austin Brooks and and a very real loathing of los­gles 6-2, 6-2. · , what used to be weaknesses victory at No. 2 singles over John Stratton by a score of 8-ing," Bayliss said. "He is Watt defeated Scott and made them into strengths, Forber to round out the day. 
2. learning to do some things Rasmussen in straight set with like his serve and net game. The Irish will next take on 
"Tyler and Brett have that were previously uncom­a. 6-3, 6-2 victory. Watt has He can counter much better Northwestern Thursday at the become a pretty good tandem fortable for him, like closing earned four consecutive sin­now than last year and has Eck Tennis Pavilion. First because of their different out points at the net and tak­gles wins to improve his radically improved his slice serve is set for 4 p.m. styles of play," Irish coach ing more balls on the rise. He record to 6-3. backhand. The player from 
Contact Kate Grabarek at.

Bobby Bayliss said. "Brett has now understands that many of No. 108 Dan Stahl was able Duke that he defeated Sunday, kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu
the stronger returns and big-the things that he got away to clinch the match for the Dylan Arnold, was playing in 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
ND topples two top-5 teams, falls to No.1 Northwestern 
Squad defeats Stanford for first time ever  facing elimination at any point. Fortunately, the second half of the team's singles  after that win [over Stanford], and we believed we could knock off the No. 4 ·  matches," Tefft admitted. "Even though we weren't suppo~ed to win, we do think  success. Even the loss itself provides motivation and goals to set.  
players rose to the challenge,  team [Baylor]  as well," Tefft  we can do it, and we have the  "We  are just going to learn  
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer  bringing the Irish back from behind to a 4-3 victory. "It was pretty exciting for  said. The team did just that, in much less dramatic fashion  players to do it." Such confidence was going to be a necessity if Notre  from it for when we play them again in the beginning of April," Tefft said as she  
all of us,"  sen- than  the  day  Dame  was  to  upset  top­ thought ahead.  
rn the span of three days this weekend, No. 14 Notre  ior Kelcy Tefft said. "Notre  "Even though we  prior; but dra­matic nonethe­ ranked Northwestern, but, in the end, the confidence was  Of the weekend as a whole, Tefft feels the team will take  
Dame played three of the top five teams in the country. The Irish defeated No. 5 Stanford in the first round of  Dame has never beaten Stanford, so it was a very  weren't supposed to win, we do think we can do it, and. we  less, as it was again, only a one-point victo­ry, 4-3. The  not enough. · "They [Northwestern] have basically the exact same team they had last year when  away both positive thoughts as well as the knowledge of what needs to be improved. "We are pleased with this  
the ITA Indoor National Championships on Friday, and then proceeded to knock  good time for that first." The Irish  have the players to do it."  Irish won the doubles point, despite the first  we lost 4-3 to them," Tefft said. "I feel like our team this year is stronger than last  weekend," she said. "But all of us lost matches, whether it be singles or doubles. We  
off No. 4 Baylor in the quar­ could  not  loss of the  sea­ year's, but we didn't play our  were  challenged much  more  
terfinals  on  Saturday.  reJoice  in the  Kelcy Tefft  son  by the No.  best today.  We  had  a  few  this weekend than  we  have  
Awaiting the Irish  on Sunday  upset for long,  Irish senior  1 duo of Tefft  matches that just didn't turn  been so far this season.  Now·  
was top-ranked Northwestern  as  No. 4 Baylor  and  freshmen  out very well, and people did­ we  need to individually work  
in the semifinals, and that is  had beaten No.  Kristy Frilling.  n't play their best."  on  the things  we  saw  this  
where the Notre Dame  run  11 North Carolina, and was  Once the six singles matches  The 4-1 defeat ended the  weekend  that  need  to  be  
came to an end.  waiting for Notre Dame. But,  split, the Irish  were  victori­ team's indoor season one day  improved upon."  
On Friday, Notre Dame lost  Notre Dame  was waiting for  ous.  earlier than it would have  
the doubles point, and before  Baylor as well.  "Overall,  we  were  really  preferred, but the weekend  Contact Douglas Farmer at  
long, the team was down 3-1,  "We  were  really excited  confident going into these  was still considered  a  grand  dfarmer@nd.edu  

-
page 18 The Observer +·SPORTS Monday, February 16, 2009 
the unanimous victory. The pit­bull-like Toscano nearly flew out of the ring as he pursued Caffee, continued from page 24 who outmaneuvered the overag­
gressive fighter. Nevertheless, called the fight with 45 seconds tight combos and great footwork left in the third in favor of Hof. gave Toscano the edge. 
Bouts 

Kyle Blanco def. Collin Feduska James "Francis" Woods def. 
Blanco set the tone of the John "The Caucasian Asian" match early, delivering a punish­Crabtree ing combo of left and righ( hooks In one of the best matches of to the body. Feduska maintained the evening, Woods and Crabtree his composure, and the two trad­matchnd each other punch for ed blows throughout the second. punch in all three rounds. Blanco controlled the third round Crabtree's vicious hooks and as well-timed flurries of jabs impressivR form were equaled by landed him the split-decision vic­James' aggressive jabs, causing a tory. Crabtree bloody nosn. In a sur­
prising outcome, Woods was 140-pound division given the split-decision victory. 
Andrew "The King of Sting" Mike Magill def. Sean Pennino Dupont def. T J Smith The pace started slowly in the 
Neither fighter emerged with 1st, building up to a flurry of jab an advantage after the first and hook combos traded back row1d, but _Dupont controlled the and forth.Magill set the tone early tempo following the start of the in the 2nd with a series of left second. and right hooks, but Pennino 
Dupont's great form, quickness, responded in kind. and powerful jabs proved to be Magill took the third and the too much for the aggressive bout in a split decision with a Smith. A dominant third round steady now of right jabs to his gave Dupont the unanimous vie­opponent's face. tory. 
Stephen Mattingly def. Andrew Scott "Crowbar" Lahr def. Ron Ea freshman from Siegfried llall, 150-pound division Connor Keenan def. Patrick Chris Ea's left matched Mattingly's could not handle. Bruns was Song . 
Lahr's lanky frame and long right hooks in a speedy first clearly the better boxer from Jamie "Sweet Rays of From the first seconds of the arms gave him the advantage round. Mattingly was backed to start to finish, keeping Monzon Sunshine" Koepsel def. John first round, Connor Keenan, a over the stocky Chris as he out­the ropes for most of the second on the dnfensive throughout the Brown Siegfried sophomore, showed jabbed his opponent in all three but managed to land a few body match. Koepsel kept his opponent up superior agility, which proved to 
rounds. Lahr's effective combos jabs as the fighters both began to against the ropes throughout the be a large advantage over his and aggressive style enabled him tire. Brian Desplinter def. Timothy match on his way to a unanimous opponent, Knott Hall freshman to outlast Chris for the unani­Mattingly began the third with Gannatti victory. Patrick Song. In the second mous victory, who nearly a whirlwind of jabs that left Ea's Despite a fall in the second After dominating in the !'irst round, Song brought a new matched Lahr punch for punch. face bloodied. Ea returned to the round, Desplintor controlled tho two rounds, the sophomore from approach to his light, getting low 
bout in a whirlwind, but pace of thfl match on his way to Keenan Hall forced the referee to punches to Keenan's stomach to Daniel Panzl def. Andrew Mattingly capitalized on his oppo­the victory. pause the match in the 3rd. counteract his agility. In the third Ziccarelli nent's facial injuries and ham­After a sloppy start for both Brown, a O'Neill Hall freshman, round, Song loses coordination 
Ziccarelli knocked his opponent mered out the final seconds to boxers, Desplintnr gained his could do little to stop the volley of and fell to the 11oor for a few to the ropes early in the first take the split decision. composure and started a flurry of blows coming from Koepsel, who moments. Though he was able to before moving hin1 to the corner jabs whieh carried through to the dominated the match from start get up and fmish, Connor Keenan to deliver a series of punishing Ryan "Will Power" Slaney def. end of the match. to finish. defeated Song in a unanimous body blows. Jose "Reign of Pain" Carranza The Alumni l I all senior sealnd decision by the judges. 
After being bashed around in After a close first round, Slaney his victory in the third round by Matt "Pos" Posluszny def. Greg the second, Ziccarelli appeared to dominated the final two rounds forcing Gannatti, a freshman Cunningham Mark Bennett def. Matthew control the fight by keeping Panzl on his way to the unanimous vic­from Stanford Ilall, into the cor­Posluszny, an off-campus sen­Brown on the ropes as the two traded tory. ner of the ring and barraging him ior, used his height and reach From the beginning of the hooks and uppercuts. But tough The junior from Carroll Hall with blows until the end of the advantage to defeat the freshman match, off-campus senior Mark defense from Panzl prevailed as was aggressive throughout the fight. Cunningham in a match that was Bennett took command. With he took the split decision. match, and was consistently on much closer than expected. three detrimental right hooks, he 
the offensive, forcing Carranza, a Joey Leary def. Shane Owens Cunningham, though 111uch brought his opponent, Knott hall Kieran Bulger def. Nick Goode sophomore from St. Edwards Owens came out of the gates shorter than his more experi­freshman Matthew Brown, to the 
The first round saw Bulger Hall, to give ground. Slaney's strong, but Leary outlasted his enced opponent, held his own ropes. Brown fell to the ground. come out swinging, keeping his aggressive fighting-style paved opponent for the unanimous vic­through the first two rounds, After regaining his balance, opponent on the ropes as the two his way to the victory. tory. before Posluszny finished strong­Brown is knocked down to the traded body jabs back and forth. Despite Leary's smaller size, his ly in the last round to go on to the ground a second time. The refer­
Neither fighter had an edge in 147-pound division wide hooks and powerful upper­unanimous victory. ee stopped the match halfway the second, as the two danced cuts forced Owens onto the ropes Posluszny was the clear winner, through the first round in Mark around the center of the ring. Ted Heilbron def. Chris Friese in the second round. Owens con­but was not able to dominate Bennett's favor. Both boxers stepped up the inten­Heilbron weathered a barrage nected more punches as the Cunningham in any of the sity in the third, but Bulger man­of punches from Friese, using match wore on, but Leary pre­rounds. Adam Cowden def. Colin aged to knock Goode down late excellent stamina to outwork the vailed in the end. Diamond and held on to take the unani­off-campus sophomore. Friese lnoh Choe def. Reed McDonagh In the first round, Adam mous decision. came out punching the first Andrew Kristiansen def. Mark For the duration of the first Cowden, a freshman from 
round, but after a very even sec­Lyda round, both sophomore Inoh Stanford Hall, threw the first Nick Bortolotti def. Brian Heath ond round in which Heilbron had Kristiansen immediately con­Choe of St. Ed's and senior Reed high-impact hit of the match, and 
Each fighter came out with a slight edge, the Dillon Hall nected with a powerful jab and McDonagh of Siegfried proved got his opponent, senior Colin intensity -Heath favoring· his sophomore won the third round broke his opponent's nosn. evenly matched, each throwing Diamond, pinned in the corner. opponent's body, while Bortolotti to earn the victory. The referee called the mateh hits and blocking well. During the second round, went for the head. with 15 seconds left ir:t the first An intense series of combina­Cowden chased Diamond to the 
The second round was equally Brian "BK Special" Koepsel def. round. tion throws from Choe tipped the corner and pinned him against vicious, as Bortolotti landed sev­Dan Coyne match largely in his favor before the ropes, but Diamond still eral blows to his opponent's jaw In a very close match, Koepsel, Patrick Kibbe def. Brandt the end of the second round. showed a large amount of tenaci­while Heath pummeled a sophomore from Carroll Hall, · Riedman After cleaning up a nosebleed, ty. Though Cowden got a little Bortolotti's sides. In the third, sealed his victory in the third Riedman's defense held his McDonagh looked dazed through tired for the duration of fight in Bortolotti's head shots wore his round in a very close match. Both opponent at bay early, but much of the third round, but the third match, he caught opponent down, and he walked fighters came out fast in the first Kibbe's combos and impressive maintained coordination and sta­Diamond with a right jab just as off with the victory.. round, and the second round was form gave him the advantage. bility to finish the fight. Choe the bell signaled the end of the 
even as well. The second round was dominat­defeated McDonagh with a unan­fight. In a unanimous decision by 145-pound division Koepsel kept up the intensity, ed by Kibbe, who gave Hiedman imous decision. the judges, Cowden defeated 
though, and the referee was a bloody nose. Diamond. Mathew "Lunchbox" Elster def. forced to pause the fight three Riedman came baek to land a Tomas Castillo def. Michael John "The Baptist" Sarna times in the final round due to few jabs and hooks, but Kibbe Hubert 155-pound division 
In a very evenly fought match, bleeding by Coyne, a junior in St. held on for the unanimous victo­Tomas Castillo, senior from Elster connected punches with Edwards Hall. Koepsel clearly ry. Siegfried threw the first intense Dan Rodgers def. Kevin Henry greater frequency than Sarna for dominated the third on his way to punch of the match with a right Rodgers asserted himself early, the split-decision victory. a unanimous victory. Kevin Ortenzio def. Conor hook across Michael Hubert's forcing the referee· to pause the 
Sarna fought hard throughout Douglass chin. fight in the first round on his way the entire match, but showed Michael "Blitzkrieg" Bruns def. The stocky Ortenzio ell'nctively As the fight continued, Castillo to the unanimous victory. Henry, fatigue as the match wore on. Eric "The Columbian Killa"' mixed jabs and hooks to corner grew dizzier and was unable to a sophomore from St. Edwards Elster's quick jabs and punishing Monzon Douglass in the first round. keflp his throws directly on tar­Hall, had difficulty landing hooks proved too be the deciding In a dominating performance, Douglass bounced back to land get. However, the third round punches, as Rodgers was able to factor. Bruns, a sophomore from some punches, but Ortenzio yielded to two new fighters fresh block almost every punch that 
Stanford Hall. completely man­quickly regained control of the from the break, and each demon­came his way. The referee Albert Toscano vs. Jeff Caffee handled Monzon on his way to a tempo. strated excellent balance and paused the fight twice more in 
In a dominant performance unanimous victory. Bruns Effective use of a "jab, jab, and footwork. In the end, Tomas the final round before Rodgers, a Toscano outmatched his oppo­attacked from the opening bell, duke" combo gave Ortnnzio the Castillo was proclaimed the nent in all three rounds to earn throwing blows that Monzon, a unanimous victory. unanimous victor. see CONT.'D/page 19 

Monday, February 16, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
seconds in to the second round, with forty seconds left in the third technical Steinbach. prisingly aggressively, but could­
the referee was forced to stop the round in favor of Nate Juarez. n't finish the job, and Urciuoli
Cont'd 
match. Ofsonka could do little to 165-pound division won in a split decision. continued from page 18 keep Maier from imposing his Caleb Laux def. Robert Tursi 
will, but fought valiantly for as Robt)rt Tursi, a senior living off­Daniel Brennan def. Cameron Matt Paletta def. Nathan senior in Siegfried, was declared long as he was able. campus, approached the fight by Vitter Hammes the victor in a unanimous deci­aiming for the stomach of his In a very good fight, Brennan Paletta and Hammes fought an sion. Kevin Goodwin def. Corey Scott opponent, Caleb Laux, a senior simply landed a higher percent­even first round, and then in the. 
In a split decision which was from Morrissey Hall. Tursi made age of his punches than Vitter second, Hammes seemed to be Nathan Rothenberger def. one of the closest and most even­progress with left-handed did. Both fighters started and taking control with multiple Andrew O'Donnell ly matched fights of the night, throws, getting Laux a little more remained aggressive throughout strong left-handed punches. 
After both fighters landed good Goodwin, a junior from Alumni aggravated. Laux stepped back the fight. Brennan's shots to Paletta appeared to barely be punches in the first round, Hall, used his aggressiveness to into the ring for the second round Vitter's head left Vitter in worse competitive when he landed a left Rothenberger, an off-campus jun­come out on top. Throughout the with a new sense of competition, shape than his blows to hook that Hammes never truly ior, went on a run in the second three-round fight, Scott, a Knott and· a right hook that Tursi could Brennan's body did. Brennan recovered from. Hammes left which continued for the rest of Hall freshman, seemed to be not read. earned a unanimous decision. himself open to attack the whole the fight. Rothenberger capped landing quality punches, but The boxers played a game of third round, during which Paletta off his performance with a nice because Goodwin put him on the back and forth jabbing in an even Brian Salvi def. Brian Schafer bloodied his nose, and earned the combination of punches after defensive in the final two rounds, round. In the third, Tursi losing In a sloppy fight, Salvi simply unanimous decision. forcing O'Donnell, a Knott Hall Scott was unable to connect on his balance, fell to the floor. Laux outfought Schafer, despite ­junior, into the corner of the ring, enough punches to secure a vic­came back with added confi­Schafer's best efforts to stop all of Scott Jarvie def. Andrew which led him to the unanimous tory. dence, chased Tursi into a corner Salvi's onslaughts. Both fighters Wroblewski victory. · and landed combo power punch­began aggressively, and Relying heavily on headshots to 
Patrick Collins def. Daniel es. Caleb Laux won with a unani­remained so until Schafer ran out daze Wroblewski, Jarvie con­Joey Brown def. Chris Gorham McGill mous judges decision. of energy, at which point Salvi trolled the entire fight. In each of 
Joey Brown a senior from off­inflicted most of his damage, the three rounds, the only note­campus spent the whole first Steve Simeonidis def. Andrew Mark Witte def. Jon Leiner earning a victory by unanimous worthy punches would be Jarvie's round showing his innate ability Nester Mark Witte, a senior from decision. shots to Wroblewski's head that to quickly send his opponent, Dillon, started off the first round stopped any attempt Wroblewski Sorin freshman Chris Gorham, a 160-pound division with successive right hooks for Barrick Bollman def. John made at attack. This strategy series of quick jabs he was his opponent, Jon Leiner, an off­Tierney earned Jarvie a unanimous victo­unable to kl=iep up with. In the David Costanzo def. Kevin Kray campus graduate student. Leiner From the opening bell to the ry. second round, after dealing with Kray's long reach proved inef­gained some credibility in the closing bell, Bollman punched for continued jabs from Brown, fective against Costanzo's strong ring as he almost pinned Witte points moreso than for pain, yet Bernando Garcia def. David Cray Gorham received a profusely hooks. In the second round, against the ropes, but the lanky this strategy accomplished both. Garcia led the tempo in the bleeding facial injury. Gorham Costanzo poured on a 15-second Witte bounced out before any Avoiding Tierney's long reach, opening and closing rounds, with threw a successful power punch, onslaught of right and left hooks damage could be done. In the Bollman would issue a series of an even session slipped between. but found himself dizzy, against that left Kray behind for the rest second, body shots and then back off In the third round, Cray granted the ropes, then on the floor. of the fight. Costanzo finished Witte brought a quick right jab once again, never letting Tierney himself some hope by forcing Brown finished the third round Kray by placing him on the ropes that severely hindered to Leiner's get too close. In the end, Bollman Garcia to the ropes, but two out strong and was awarded the for the last part of the third ability to defend himself. Witte won via unanimous decision. strong Garcia right hooks, to win by a unanimous judges deci­round, insuring the victory by threw a series of right hooks to Cray's head sealed the fight in sion. unanimous decision. finish the round. The tall south­Alex Duffy def. Mike favor of Garcia unanimously. 
paw continued his dominance Abercrombie Alex Gonzales def. Andrew Jordan Bucci def. David Seiber during the third round mainly Duffy opened the fight with a Diego "Andres" Villalba def. Fessler Bucci won a one sided bout through the use of his famous series of head shots that forced Henry Shine 
From the beginning of the first over Seiber by landing a flurry of right jab. An intense upper cut the referee to check in with Villalba overpowered Shine round and throughout the whole combos early. Seiber tried to against Leiner's supressed chin Abercrombie. Once the fight with a devastating three-hit­match, off-campus senior, Alex respond in the second round by and a series of power punches resumed, Duffy picked up where combo followed by an uppercut, Gonzales showed excellent block­landing some body blows, but from Witte conclude the match. he left off until, in the third which left Shine bloody. Shine ing abilities that lead to his even­this left him open to more hits. From a unanimous judges deci­round, the referee stopped the was put on the defensive and had tual victory against opponent, Bucci finished off the third round sion, Mark Witte won. fight on Abercrombie's behalf, no answer for Villalba's relentless O'Neill freshman Andrew Fessler. with another flurry of combos to granting Duffy the triumph. combos. The match was called Gonzales got Fessler against the win with a unanimous decision. Jim "Rainbow Sprinkles" after one round by the referee in ropes in the second, but was Devereaux def. Connor "The Jack Peterson def. Graham favor of Villalba. enough off his target to do any Nate Juarez def. Tom O,ybicz Convict" Simpson Sullivan real damage to Fessler. In the A junior from O'Neill, Nate Devereaux dominated the Peterson started out the match Joe Langenfeld def. Ryan Traudt third round, Gonzales threw a Juarez started off considerably match from start to finish, forcing with a series of blows to The bout started evenly with series of combos, and showed stronger than his opponent, Tom the referee to pause the fight Sullivan's head, pushing Sullivan Langenfeld and Traudt exchang­Fessler the ropes one more time Dybicz, junior from Carroll hall. briefly in the second round on his to the ropes. The second round ing jabs in the first round. The as the remaining seconds fell off Juarez threw a few combo way to victory. Simpson, a fresh­became a more even match with contest remained close until the clock. With a unanimous punches late in the first round to man from O'Neill Hall, was both boxers using the right hook Langefeld landed a series of decision, Alex Gonzales was show Dybicz it will take a major unable to stop the senior for effectively. Peterson took control blows to Traudt's head before the declared the winner. shift in strategy to come out of Keough Hall from peppering him in the third round, opening with a end of the second round. 
this.fight a winner. · with blows. barrage of landed punches to win Langenfeld took complete control John Maier def. Andrew "The Juarez came out even stronger The referee was forced to stop in a unanimous decision. in the third round starting out Juggernaut" Ofsonka in the second round, and Dybicz the match briefly in the third strong with a several uppercuts 
Using his long reach and supe­grew more dazed. In the third round as well, counting for Matt Hopke def. Jeremiah Kelly and combos on Traudt to win by rior height, Maier, a junior from round, Juarez got a series of Simpson after a particularly pow­Hopke started out strong unanimous decision. Keough Hall, was victorious by combinations and a rigbt hook erful punch from Devereaux, a against Kelly, putting Kelly on the technical knockout. After knock­that quickly cut across l'.>ybicz's capstone on Devereaux's impres­defensive with a series of left Alex Kissinger def. Andrew ing down Ofsonka, a freshman in chin. Dybicz spent the first half of sive performance. hooks. Relying on his left hook in Polich Keenan Hall, twice in the first the third round pinned in a cor­the second round, Hopke contin­Kissinger displayed some fancy round, then once more fifteen ner. The referee stopped the fight ·Patrick "The Piston" Martin ued to serve out punishment footwork while trying to wear out 
def. Danny "The Danimal" while Kelly tded to answer with a Polich with a series of right Chapman right jab of his own. Kelly had no hooks. Polich tried to take back 
Martin was victorious in a rela­answer for Hopke's barrage as he control in the second round by tively even match in which he went on to win in a unanimous landing a series of body blows began to take charge only in the decision. before Kissinger landed several second half of the fight. Through left hooks to Polich's face. The the first round and a half, both Paul Amiri def. Chris Poszluzny bout ended with both fighters Martin, an off-campus senior, and Amiri started out strong, launching flurries at eaeh, other Chapman, a freshman from assaulting Puzluzny with aseries with Kissinger coming out as the Stanford Hall, traded blows, each of body blows while Puzluzny unanimous winner. making good contact with the tried to counter with several right other. jabs. Puzluzny looked as if he was Vince Keneally def. Tom 
However, starting the in the taking back control early in the . Carnevale middle of the second round, and second round with a series of left Carnevale began the bout uti­continuing throughout the rest of jabs, only to have Amiri finish lizing his left jab to set up a well the match, Martin began corner­strong landing several blows to place combo on Keneally's head. ing Chapman on the ropes, and Puzluznys head. Amiri jumped Kelneally began taking control in dominated the rest of the fight. out early in the third round with the second round with an effec­
a flurry ofleftjabs before becom­tive right jab that put Carnevale Adam Steinbach def. Billy ing defensive in the final on into the ropes. Both fighters Wardlaw moments to secure a unanimous put defense aside as they 
In a close match, it was the victory. exchanged blows down the quality punches landed by stretch until Keneally was victori­Steinbach._which sprung him to 170-pound division ous in a split decision. victory. Both Steinbach, a junior from Knott Hall, and Wardlow, a Michael Urciuoli def. Greg freshman in O'Neill Hall, landed Bennet Contact Eric Prister at good punches in the first two Despite a convincing fight by eprister@nd.edu, Douglas. rounds. · Bennet, strong starts to the flrst Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu, 
It was not until the third round and third rounds by Urciuoli Molly Sammon at that Steinbach began to land a proved to be the winning margin. msammon@nd.edu, Chris significant amount of punches In the first round, Urciuoli cor­Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu, more than Wardlow. Though nered Bennet and punched Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu, Wardlow was aggressive relentlessly until the referee sep­Bobby Graham at throughout, it was not enough for arated the two. In the third rgraham@nd.edu and Chris him to take victory of the more round, Bennet again opened sur-Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

~ 
. oc­

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 16, 2009 
=======================================================================================~~~ 
NBA ALL-STAR GAME 

Shaq, Kobe lead West to victory 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Shaq danced, Kobe dazzled. And just like the good ol' days, they won again. 
Bryant led all scorers with 27 points, O'Neal partied his way back onto the All-Star stage with 17 in just 11 min­utes, and the Western Conference beat the East 146­119 Sunday night. 
"It felt like old times," O'Neal said. "[ miss those times. He was really looking for me, especially when we went to a pick-and-roll and they had Rashard Lewis on me." 
Back on the same team for the first time in nearly five years, the three-time champi­ons shared the game MVP award. They helped the West get untracked after an awful start, then teamed up for a few buckets that helped blow it open in the third quarter. 
"I tell you what, those two guys together, that's a deadly combination as we all saw tonight and we have all seen in the past," East coach Mike Brown said. 
"They are where they are right now, but if they were to stay together, no telling how many more rings they would have had on their fingers and toes." 
And they did it in the ways that made them so different ­Bryant with his cold-as-ice stare and focus, O'Neal as the oversized clown who made fans and foes alike laugh .• 
O'Neal is now complimenta­ry of Bryant, calling him the best player in the NBA. Bryant still seems uncomfortable talk­ing about his relationship with O'Neal -if there is much of one. 
"We are not going to go back to the room and wa_tch 'Steel Magnolias' or something like that, you know what I'm say­ing, crying, all that stuff," Bryant said. "We had a good time. That's all." 
It was their first time on the floor as teammates since the 2004 NBA finals. O'Neal was traded to Miami that summer, breaking apart a duo that pro­duced three straight titles but was perhaps better known for its frequent feuding that made the breakup inevitable. 
"I think it is a 'great life les­son for people," said West coach Phil Jackson, who led O'Neal and Bryant to their titles with the Lakers. "This is something that the people work together, people find a way to get through situations, find harmony in their life, find cohabitation." 
Bryant and O'Neal shared a slight hug after being announced as MVPs, then playfully fought over the tro­phy commissioner David Stern handed to them. They joined Bob Pettit, who won four times, and Michael Jordan and Oscar Robertson as the only three-time All-Star MVPs. 
"The Big Legendaries," O'Neal said. 
Amare Stoudemire scored 19 for the West, which bounced back from its loss last year in New Orleans, when Bryant was limited to just a few min­utes of action while resting a dislocated pinkie finger. 
NMU 
continued from page 24 
and sophomore Ian Cole also finished with a pair of goals on the night. 
But the Wildcats would not go quietly. Forwards Hay Kaunisto and Phil Fox both scored for Northern Michigan late in the first period to keep things close. The two teams continued to fight back and forth with the Wildcats tying the game 4-4 five minutes into the second period. 
From that point Notre Dame took over, scoring four straight power-play goals to bury the Wildcats. Cole start­ed things off with a big blast from the point less than a minute into the final period. 
At 11:04 of the third, Northern Mic-higan defense­man Mike Maltese got whis­tled for hitting from behind. Maltese was given a five minute major and ejected from the game. Notre Dame capitalized by scoring three goals during thR penalty to put the game out of reach. Calle Ridderwall, White and Cole all scored during thll five-minute stretch. 
Notre Dame 5, Northern Michigan 2 
It took Notre Dame a bit longer to score Saturday night, but the Irish piled it on quickly with a pair of power play goals in the final 1:23 of the first period. 
Freshman right wing Billy Maday opened the scoring off a Brett Blatchford rebound from the bottom of the left circle. Center Kevin Deeth was also credited with an assist as he started the play from the left side. 
With eight seconds left in the first, sophomore left wing Calle Ridderwall scored his 14th goal of the year on an assist from Maday and Deeth, who won the face-off on the 
NO SOFTBALL 

Irish fall twice to top-ranked 'Barna 
Squad takes one offour tilts in season-opening tournament 
3 for the whole tournament, before approaching the 
By MOLLY SAMMON 

beating Eastern Carolina, other difficult opponents
Sports Writer 

losing to Wisconsin, and they will face in the 2009 suffering two five-inning season, including softball 
Fighting the toughest of slaughters to the Crimson powerhouses, DePaul, the tough, the Irish softball Tide. Arizona State and UCLA. team opened their 2009 "It was frustrating, and it "We need to wake up our season against the No. 1 was a bit of a disappoint­bats and start hitting the Alabama Crimson Tide, ment," infielder Linda ball." senior infielder Linda playing them Kohan said. Kohan said. twice during "We know that The highest batting aver­the Barna Bash we're a better ages of the season so far
'7t wasfrustrating, to
Tournament. team than belong Sadie Despite the 10-and it was a bit ofa what we Pitzenberger, sophomore 1 and 10-0 played this infielder Katie Fleurry and
disappointment. We
losses, Notre weekend." Kohan, who are each hit­
know we're a better
bame also During the ting over .300. picked up their team than what we first game "We have a lot of things to first seasonal against improve." Bargar said. "But
played this 
win, against Alabama, the by playing th,e number one
weekend."
Eastern Irish took the team in the country, you Carolina, 2-1. initial lead, as learn a lot of things about "[Playing Linda Kohan Alexia Clay's yourself, like all the things 
Alabama] was was bobbled we need to work on."
Irish infielder 
just like play­by an Despite a losing weekend, ing any other Alabama the team is looking posi­team," senior infielder, tively on moving their sea­pitcher Brittney Bargar bringing in a run. The Irish son into full swing. said. "It was just like any were not able to hold on, "The most exciting thing other university." and Alabama fought back, of the weekend was being 
Bargar pitched in the holding Notre Dame to only able to be outside and tournament against each of that first run and scoring being able to play," Bargar the three teams the Irish 10 more to end the game said. played Alabama, after five innings. Wisconsin, and Eastern The Irish have big plans Contact Molly Sammon at Carolina. The team went 1-for changing their game msammon@nd.edu 

Irish forwards Erik Condra, Garrett Regan and Ben Ryan celebrate a goal during Notre Dame's 9-5 win over Northern Michigan Friday. 

Wildcats' side of the ice. 
Just 30 seconds into the second period, the Irish power play struck again. This time it was Lawson beating Stewart from in close on a nifty pass from Condra. 
"I just slid back door, Condra made a great play, and I got a little lucky with it bouncing in off his pad," Lawson said. 
Three-minutes later, ·sopho­more center Ben Ryan scored on the power play to make it 4-0 Irish on assists from Condra and Lawson. 
"It was kind of a broken 
play where the puck ended up and I just found a seam," Ryan said. 
Gregor Hanson scored two goals in a four-minute span to cut Notre Dame's lead in half midway through the second period, but. Garret Regan gave the Irish an even­strength insurance goal with seven minutes left in the peri­od to cap the scoring at 5-2. 
Pearce made 17 saves in the victory. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu and Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



Spedaliling in E>eautiful Colm 
HUMP DAY Every Wednesday take $1 0-off color, $5-off cuts 
258-5080 
620 W. Edi$01'1 Ret Mishawak,a, IN www.aaforii'Oiigelne.cam 

Monday, February 16, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

~ord Pr<>g p n 
The Meaning and · Measure of Development 

Amitava Dutt & Carolyn Nordstrom 
TONIGHT at 7:00 PM-Coleman-Morse lounge (lstfloor) Refreshments will be served. 
Tttc fORD fAMILY PROGRAM 

KELLOGG 
IN HUMAN Dr:vr:LOPMf:NT Sruo1cs 

INSTITUTE 


AND SouDARm· 
For more information visit: kel .nd.edu/fordprogram 
K-Mac 
continued from page 24 
defense, which held South Florida (8-16, 3-9 Big East) to 20-for-54 shooting (37 per­cent). 
After struggling to keep many Big East opponents in check, Notre Dame's man defense held its second straight opponent to just 57 points. Notre Dame had points to spare in its 90:.57 bl·owout of the Louisville Thursday, but with 9:46 remaining against the Bulls, the score was tied at 
51. Notre Dame didn't allow a point for the next 8:34, allow­ing McAlarney to put the game away. 
"WP had to defend to win," Brey said. "It was probably good to have to gut out a league game that was kind of of hard on a Sunday afternoon game to get it going, and I was just trying to jumpstart us to get this win." 
McAiarney bookended that run with two of his five 3­pointers. South Florida was able to cut the lead to nine at halftime and stay within strik­ing distance early in the sec­ond half before mounting its best run of the game. Down, 51-43. South Florida went on an 8-0 run to tie the score. Bulls guard Dominique Jones, who finished with 14 points hit a jumper. Chris Howard fol­lowed that with one his thrne 3-pointers, and VerdPjo, who led the Bulls with 18, took two. trips to the free-throw line and hit three shots to tie the score. Notre Damp's defense and MeAlarney's shooting took over from there. 
Notre Dame will hit the road 
this week for 
two critical 

a grind-it-out "It was probably good match ups against teams
game. Hopefully to have to gut out a 
that's something that are just
league game that was

we can build on ahead of the because your kind ofa grind-it-out Irish in the Big offense wasn't in game. East standings. a great rhythm On Wednnsday, but you had to Notre Dame 
Mike Brey

keep getting travels to West stops and Irish coach Virginia to take 
rebounds." 
The defense compensated for an Irish offense that lacked the consis­tency of Thursday's showing. Notre Dame missed many open looks and shot 21-for-53 for the day (40 percent). McAlarney and Harangody were each 6-for-15 from the field. Ryan Ayers added 12 on 3-for-7 shooting. Tory Jackson, who finished with eight points, five assists and four rebounds, was 3-for 10. 
Notre Dame got a boost in the first half from sophomore forward Tyrone Nash. Nash came off the bench and scored eight points in just over five minutes of play. Nash's points were part of a 16-4 Notre Dame ruh that gave the Irish a 28-14 lead, Notre Dame's biggest lead of the game. 
''I'm just happy I was able to provide a spark plug off the bench," Nash said. "It was kind 

Loyola 
continued from page 24 
The second-half was a back-and-forth contest, as the Irish scored three times only to have Loyola equalize shortly after­wards. Hoff 
on the 
Mountaineers (17 -8, 6-6), fresh off their 93­72 win over Villanova. On Saturday, Notre Dame heads to Providence to take on the Friars, (16-9, 8-5). This two­game swing represents a chance for Notre Dame to improve its lot in the stand­ings, where it sits in lOth place. 
"That'll be a challenge; try to win a road game. I think to hold two teams in the 30s, field -goal percentage defense here at home is something build on," Brey said. "Can we play that kind of position man­to-man on the road?" 
Ayers added: "It's our chance to make a move. Two road . games against two really good team that have been playing well in the Big East." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

finally put the goal
"/ think our smarts

Irish up for do~ng it week 
good with· his and discipline is by week, game second goal of what makes us by game," Hoff the match, and said.
tough."

senior goal-Hicks record­tender Scott ed a career­Rodgers made Scott Rodgers high three two critical goals for the
Irish goaltender 

saves in the final minute to preserve the victory. 
Rodgers, making his first collegiate start, tallied eleven saves. 
"I think our smarts and dis­cipline is what makes us so tough," Rodgers said. "We take a lot of pride in paying attention to the small details and nuances of the game." 
Loyola was led by junior Collin Finnerty, who scored four goals and added an assist. Goaltender Jake Hagelin also contributed 15 saves for the Greyhounds. 
Hoff added that while the team enjoyed the success, a long season is ahead of the Irish. 
"To reach 
our ultimate 
it takes 
Irish playing in 
a return to his 
home state. Earl added two goals and senior midfielder Duncan Swezey had three-assists. 
Notre Dame will return to the field next Sunday, visiting Penn State. The Irish open at home Feb. 28 against Dartmouth. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 16, 2009 
Feed your future 
• 

See the difference 100 PwC interns made in Belize. 
Begin at www.pwc..tv 

© 2009 PricewaterhouseCooper$ LLP. All rights res&rved, "PricewalerhouseCoop&rs" refer$ to PricewaterhouseCoopen; LLP or, as th& context r&qulres. the PricewaterhouseCoopors global neiwork or other member llrms ol the network, each of whh;:h Is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to t>e an Alf~rmatl!fe Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 16, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Slip fillers Saucily titled 32 T preceder best-selling diet 
33Atliance
book 
34College

12 Center starter'? 
bookstore stock 15 It's featured In "A 
35 Chateau _.
Night at the 
Brion (Bordeaux
Opera" 
wine)

16 lickted user's 
36 Arizona senator
response 
Jon

17 Target of a 
37 Yes or no
school bully 
follower

18 _-de-tour (hemisphere­38 Abundant sources
shaped vault) 19~80.84 It 
39 Lands in the Persian Gulf 

20Suspect's request: Abbr. 41 John ot Lancaster
21 Internet site graphics 42 Ben Jonson poem
23 Chooses by divine election 43 N.FL. salary 25 Ice remover 
limit 26 Fig. on a 1970s 47 Like 1, but not I dollar 48 Rest 27Enamel 49 Peggy of "The strengthener Dukes of 28 Has confiscated Hazzard" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

50 Not be generous with 
51 They really ought to be kicked 
54 Next to nothing? 55 Sign of stress? 56 An alien may 
take it: Abbr. 571s a hero 
Down 
University of Alaska Southeast campus site 
2 Anne of fashion 3 _disco {European dance music) 4 Reactor overseer: Abbr. 5 Cry from a daredevil cyclist 6 1884 short story by Guy de Maupassant 7 St. (Caribbean island, familiarly) 8 Wee, to a wee 
'un 9 Foremost 1 0 Private dos? 11 They're straight 12 Yosemite Valley 
peak 13 Dumped 14 Harms 22 Manhattan's 
place 24 Every month has one 
25 licket 27 Babes 


www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Paula Gamache  
28 Where Fre<to  35 Where to hang,  44 Called out  
Corleon~ gets shot  in slang 37 Steinbeck's  45 UnitedHealth  
29 Passive- birthplace  rival  
aggressive and the like  38Apiece 40 No Yankee fan  46 Uke plaster  
30Common desiccant  41 Light into 43 Govemor who  48 Suffix with super  
31 Kentucky college  helped found  52 Explorer, e.g.  
34 Body found high  Ohio State  
in the Andes  University  53 Dating letters  

For answers, call 1-9()0..285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
c~edit card. 1-SOQ-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
pas1 puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($39.95 a year) . Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzlaforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DAVID CAVADINI 

-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON HUS lHY: Bmndon Boyd, ~3; Man Gmening, 55: Me· Iissa Manchester. 58; Jane Seymour. 58 
Happy Uirthda~·: 'lbcre" much at stake thh year. Tone down your ~cner<>sit>· ;>nd real­i~c that h:n> ll!IH:h of anything <'t>tlld he ynur d•~wntitll. 1bi• is uot the titlW f\•r n:vcnttc, <Werindulgen,~e or" poor-me atdwde but rather one of h<lldin~ on and givin~ hlck what )'<>IJ can. \i.>Ur numb,·rs are 3, II. 2J, 26, 3S.4J. 47 
ARIES (Marett 21·April 19): Prntttt yoor health, ~·our'"""" •md your futur''· Do what· ¢ver it tak<'s to »lav itt tlw k•)l' and to help tho-se who haw hdpt•d you in the J>ast. ·n,,• lime i• right!<> <>fkr your •ervkc> on a !>wader 'cak *** 
TAliRUS 1Apri120-Mny 2Q); Ek nudu! to "'hom you tdl y<>Ur se<.'t<:l~. fim(>ti(>nal rnat­t<t.• r~Jprding b<lth hu<itlCs• :>lld penonal pMtucrs wilt hi' in limho ami\\ ill ll<:<'U !'<'as· s.c~sing. -nlh b nt1l lhc ti.lnt.:" to take .O.l<.:tion but father to he observant nnd prot.-E...""-~l what you 
h"W-*** 
GEMINI (~lay 21·June Zth: You may be imrign<d hy ,;om~oo<'s lifestyle but don't~,,_.,,., consider wing a f<>llmwr. An old friend may raise questions ahout a decision you made a long time ago. Let it go. * ** 
CANCER (Jnne 21-.hdr 22): Tt~k to someon< in the know about the tbanges you would like w make in y<mr pe1>onal ;md pmk.sioMllifc. Ymlll get great direction ami the sur>· port you net>d. Hartl work ami dcdkatkm will turn things around.***** 
LF.O (July 13-Au;::. 22): Don't kt your low life rule your heart. Som<'<>ne islikdy to put <kmands on you that don't r,-,1 good an<! the abilit>· U> say no will be required. Someone from your pa•t can di>rupt your life if you let him or h.-r. ** 
VlRGO (Aug.lJ..Sitpt.ll): You can ~ettle <lid dehts, dhagreemem~ and unfinished busi· II''" if you don't kt <other:< meddk in your <kdsion$. An ide" youl~•w ,.,..,tum into u prrn~pe:mus '""'""'· if you slnrt off small. A'·oiJ Jl"Oplc who nre trying to take your money.**** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2J.O.t. 22): A >udMn change in your ~<><:aliGn or the rules ami regula· lions at w<>rk will !eave )'OU uncertain about your next move. Push to d"~"I"J> one of your own ideas. Low and <;<·tdal ewnts will lead to >on~e<>ne who can help you out. ••·• 
SCORPIO t(h:t.l.\-Nu~·.lll: Ptu y<iur cff<>rts httv ~-our work and a\'oid ~nyt>n<: who giws Y<'" a hard tim•· or tri~'> l<i convin~t yt>u t<> giw up. He slr<mg. Sue~"'' wlll not dude you if you push ft>rward regardless of the do man&• h<'ing put on you. *** 
SAGll"tARlt 'S (Nov. 22·1.1«. 21): Pushing ahe•d on your own will help you the most. Low is on the ri>e and the time to make some seri<>us d~dsions about \·our future is now. (kt on with your pl:tns as a couple or mo-ye on to somevne who better suit~ you. *** 
CAPRICORN fUt"C. 22·Jan. l?l: You may ha\'e a lm on Y<lUr minJ Jl<'rtainin~ to your 'latll$ 31\d P<'~it!<>ll in life bllt, if )'OIJ giv<> in t<> what othcn are telling you, a mt$takc is likely to be ma4", You ha'" plenty I<> <lifct' and can rome out ah~ad hy tllkiug y<lur own path.**** 
AQlL\RIFS Uan. 20·1-eb. 18t: Stick!(> your own s.::t of rule• ami principle• not those of :iomconc playing "-''motional gam~s. Do not lose sight <lf where p:m h::~Yc et.ltlk! from and how far yNt've gotten. Be pmud of your acc.,lmpli~hment~-** 
J>ISCK<; Web. 19·:\lurcb 201: An inn:strn<:nt or offer bt-in11 m:ldc mar sound good but jtJSllhe oppr.site is more likely. Dllfieutties with settklll<)llh :tnd kgal maners wilt set yuu hade L<'l things go and concenlrJ!e on new beginnings. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You ~re cnnHdem, charismatic and Ullfltedktable. Yma tend to look at thi11gs in broad t"rm~. Y,~u are powerfuL progre%iW m1d pushy. 
i~)tgttJirls 'fiirb .~ilt.'i.: t:'trg~mtrtla~I.J..'omfor cOr{/fdP.litiftf cr>tHulrotwta. my.<{I(Jft'.UIIn/rllgt'lli(l[tl!l jor ftt~i'llff($ bfo.g .' OS/I'()(ltfl'iCR .C(}I/1 fiJr jim 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon 
Those curls take $200? a lot of time 

' 
©200!1 TribtmE~ Media Services. Inc. 
ff~l II 
TEL~AC 
WHr=N THt= HAIR­
I J (] 
0Rt=55EI< I<AISt=D HER Ft=E, IT WAS--­
I NAMORTj 
Now arrange the circled letters . [) [ [) to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer:"[ I IIXI I I IJ" 
(Answers Monday) Yesterday's IJumbles: GNOME RANCH BEFOUL GRIMLY Answer: What role did the child actress play in the movie? -A "MINOR" ONE 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip__________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 16, 2009 
page 24 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Bouts get underway with preliminary round fights 
By ERIC PRISTER, DOUGLAS FARMER, MOLLY SAMMON, CHRIS MICHALSKI, NATHANIEL LEE, BOBBY GRAHAM, and CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writers 
The 79th annual Bengal Bouts boxing tournament opened last night with over 70 fights taking place in 12 different weight class­

. ·.,,; 
es . 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
McAlarney's-two clutch threes give Irish win over USF 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
If there's one person oppos­ing defenses have keyed on Notre Dame's offense all sea­son it's Kyle McAlarney. Shut him down, you have a chance to win. Let him get free and risk getting burned by his quick, deadly accurate shot. 
On Sunday, South Florida stuck with McAlarney for most of the second half, but on two possessions late in the game, the Bulls lost were a step slow, and McAlarney did them in to seal Notre Dame's 67-57 win. 
With just under three min­utes remaining, McAlarney darted toward the corner, with South Florida guard Jesus Verdejo lagging behind, took a short pass from Zach Hillesland and drained a three to put Notre Dame (14-10, 5-7 Big East) up seven. McAlarney, 
· 13~und division 
Christopher Bennett def. 
Michael "Boricua" Perez 

The night's opening bout set the tone for the rest of the evening, as Bennett came from behind to win a very close·match. Perez started off strong during the first round, landing most of his punches and exhibiting great footwork. 
But Bennett was unfazed, pin­ning Perez against the ropes and wearing him out for the unani­mous victory. 
Michael "The Sliver City Slugger" Sayles def. Jacob "The Minnesota Mauler" Lawler 
Sayles dominated the match from the first bell to the last, landing hook after hook against his opponent.Lawler managed to land a few jabs, but Sayles hardly missed a punch in the final minute.The referee stopped the contest with 15 seconds left in the second round. 
Brian "Ghostlands" Robillard def. Brian Hamamoto 
Hamamoto was the more 
aggressive of the two in the open­ing round, but Robillard more than matched him with his quick feet and powerful combos. A<> the match progressed Robillard began to pound his opponent with the right hook, pinning Hamamoto in the corner and earning the unanimous victory. 
Nick Bock def. Jon Lagoy 
Both fighters came out quickly in the first minutes of the opening bout. Bock's face began to bloody as both tired, dropping their gloves and leaving their faces exposed. A speedy jab combo knocked Lagoy to the floor momentarily. When the dust set­tled Bock's precision too~ the split decision. 
David Hof def. Doug Berry 
The two nimble fighters danced around the ring, feeling each other out in the first with a few headshots. Hof came out in dom­inating fashion in the second, drawing blood twice with furious face jab combos. The referee 
see BOUTS/page 19 

Cutting the Bull 
who finished tied with Luke Harangody for a game-high 19 points, was determined to hit a big shot after missing the front end of a one-and-one on Notre Dame's previous possession. 
"I was ready to go off on myself and I was cursing a lit­tle bit and I got a little space and I just knew it was going in because I just had a different focus after I missed that free throw," McAlarney said. 
Then with 1:13 left, McAlarney came off a Harangody screen, caught the ball frori'i guard Tory Jackson in front of Notre Dame's bench, gave an up-fake to a hurried Verdejo and drained another three to give the Irish an eight point lead, ending any hope of a South Florida co'meback. 
"The other one, I just got him up in the air and just took it," McAiarney said. "Great screen by 'Gody, great delivery by Tory." 
But McAlarney's clutch shots would not have been possible without another solid perform­ance from Notre Dame's 
seeK-MAC/page 21 

MEN'S lACROSSE 

Notre Dan1e opens 
seasonwithlate victory 
Hoff scores with 5:29 left to secure ND win 
By MICHAEL BRYAN SportS Writer 
No. 7 Notre Dame opened its season in dramatic fash­ion Saturday, edging No. 17 Loyola (Md.) 10-9 in Atlanta.. Senior attacker Ryan Hoff received an assist from jun­ior Grant Krebs and netted the winning goal for Notre Dame with 5:29 remaining. 
The match, which remained close from start to finish, was the seventh straight Irish win in season-openers. Krebs led Notre Dame offensively with four points on three goals and the winning assist. 

The Irish jumped out to a 3-1 lead in the first quartnr with goals from Hoff. junior Neal llkks, and sophomorP David Earl. Loyola quickly respondnd, howcyf'r, reeling off four straight goab to Ia h a 5-3 advantage. 
Notre Dame then went on a run of its own, scoring threw straight goals, including two from Hicks. The Greyhounds netted the last goal of the half to enter the break tied at six. 
see LOYOLA/page 21 
HOCKEY 

Squad wins two vs. NMU 
Big weekend from powerplay powers Irish to sweep of Wildcats 
By DAN MURPHY and MATT GAMBER Sports Writers 
The nation's top power play unit was at it again ovPr the WPPkend as th(~ lri"sh srorcd Oil 10 or their I;, man-up rhancPs in a pair of honw w1ns ovPr NorthPrn Michigan. 
, No. 2 Notn~ Dame (23-5-3, 17-4-3-3 CCCI!\) converted 6­of-8 power play opportuni­ties in a 9-5 win Friday before scoring on 4-of-8 in Saturday's 5-2 victory over the Wildcats (11-15-4, 8-12­3-3). The sweep gives the Irish a four-point lead over seeond-plac:e Miami (Ohiol in the confnrence standings with four games to play. 
Thn Irish have now sc:ornd 42 pownr-play goals on tlw ynar with a 25.3-pArcnnl 5'11 c cnss r a tn. Top-rank c1 d Boston UnivPrsity ranks sPr­ond in nac·h category with 42 powPr-play goals and a pc1r­n~ntagn of 24.1. 
"It's all timing," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said Saturday. "I wish we saved somn of these for another night." 
Notre Dame 9, Northern Michigan 5 It took only 1:21 to spring a leak in the Wildcat 
defense. Senior r-enter Garrett Regan got things started by deflecting a Kyle Lawson shot past senior goalifl Brian su~wart. TPW minutes apd two Erik Condra goals later, Stnwart took himself out of the game. 
Irish defPnsPman BretL Blatchford found Condra cut­ting to the back post and thP senior captain slap]Wd it in for a 2-0 lead. Two rninutc>s Jatnr Condra sniped the top right corner on a wrist shot and junior Derek Janzen took over between the pipes for Northern Michigan. 
Senior wing Justin White 
see NMU/page 20 








