the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Irish defend the Alamodome in rout of Cougars 
Football team, Band 

Students excited after receive warm welcome 
Irish crush Wash St. for San Antonio game 
in primetime game 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer News Writer 
The football team may have was welcomed to San Antonio 
The Notre Dame community 
been 1,000 miles away from South with open arms this weekend as 
Bend in San Antonio, Texas, but the Irishfootballteam traveledto 
homesickness did not prevent the the Alamodome to play their first 
Irish from dominating Washington ever “home away from home” 
Stateatthe Alamo Dome Saturday. game. 
In the first off-site home game Director of game day opera-
televised during primetime hours, tionsMike Seamon saidthe game 
the Irish came on strong from the feltmorelike abowlgamethan a 
beginning, a change from their road game due to the abundance 
recentpattern of nailbitingwins. of support the team received 
“I was really happy to win by fromthecityandfans. 
more than seven points,” senior “We wanted to have an aca-
Alicia Morgan said. “It was a lot demic element, afaith element, a 
less stressful.” service element, a social element 
The Irishtook an early lead with and an athletic element,” 
Golden Tate catching two touch-Seamon said. “We wanted all 
down passes, includinga 50-yard these different core Notre Dame 
HailMary. 
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 
A mariachi band entertains fans at the Alamo at a pep rally Friday in anticipation. The band was part of see ALAMO/page 6 a weekend designed to incorporate local culture with the gameday experience. see IRISH/page 4 


Observer launches updated Web site 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer launched a new Web site Friday with updated features and increased multimedia capa­bilities. 
The new site features links to The Observer’s Twitter account, The Observer sports blog The Casual Observer, The Irish Insider Podcast and the Scene section’s music playlist. 
Viewers can also page through a digital copy of the print version of The Observer. 
The new Web site also includes a comment fea­ture. 
After Friday’s launch, The Observer’s new Web site was the most viewed college news site on College Publisher throughout the weekend. 
College Publisher runs the Web sites of nearly 600 col­lege newspapers. 
The Observer is currently the sixth most-viewed Web site on College Publisher. 



‘LoyalDaughtersandSons’returnstoND 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students will have an opportunity to see their most private stories and personal decisions played out on stage three nights this week in the fourth annual produc­tion of “Loyal Daughters and Sons.” 
The play, which is made entirely for, by and about Notre Dame students, began as then-senior Maddison Liddy’s thesis project in the spring of 2006. Liddy used anonymous interviews with Notre Dame students to construct a play that explores gender and sexu­ality at Notre Dame. The play has since evolved with new directors and new interview material, but its purpose remains the same — to create healing, education and aware­ness of sexual violence. 
“The script of ‘Loyal Daughters and Sons’ is a living document, so there is some old and some new material,” co-director Katherine Khorey said. “Some material is taken from interviews last spring, 

see PLAY/page 6 

Senior filmmaker releases ‘Under the Influence’ 
kicks,” and Lyons wrote it with Wilka during his sophomore year at Notre Dame. 
The film — with the tagline “Four Friends. One Night. Infinite Possibilities” — shows the misadventures of four high school friends who decide to crash a party where one of their ex-girlfriends will be. The party is broken up by the police and the four friends are then split up, and the rest of the film focuses on how they try to meet again. 
Lyons said the idea came because he knew his friends 
see FILM/page 6 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Breaking into the film indus­try is not an easy task, and it is one that senior film major Mark Lyons is growing familiar with. 
Lyons co-wrote and starred in the film “Under the Influence” with director Joe Wilka. The film was released yesterday on AT&T, Verizon and Charter cable providers. 
The film, an 85-minute come­dy, includes a cast of Lyons’ friends and others who aren’t actually pursuing careers in act­ing. It was made “just for 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Jerusalem study abroad program update page 3  Top five ‘Glee’ performances page 10  Irish Insider analysis pullout  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, November 2, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The city that sparkles 
Completely and totally lost on I-65 yesterday, driving back from week­end festivities in Bloomington, my friend Hannah and I were complete­ly speechless with the sheer beauty of the great state of Indiana during Katie Peralta this most delight­ful time of the 
Associate 
year. We had 
News Editor 
awoken in my friend’s apart­ment earlier in the day only to be greeted by the most glorious blue sky I have ever witnessed. Crisp red and orange leaves danced merrily along Walnut Street and the cool bite to the air refreshed our sleepy spirits. 
Corny, yes. Biased, yes. But this day got me thinking what a crazy and foolish thing it is to knock Indiana and most notably its weath­er. I have heard time and time again the list of offences and grievances against the great Hoosier State, especially from those of you from places like California, Texas and Florida. I get it and I hear you. Charlotte’s perpetual perfection is always nice to come home to. 
My question then to you is a sim­ple one. Did you expect the tropics when you sent in that application in high school? Sorry our pristine beaches don’t meet your expecta­tions. Sorry our palm trees don’t grow as abundantly as they do in your area. Sorry we get rain and — gasp — snow. 
My rant is not just limited to the weather of Northern Indiana. On the contrary, I am here more to defend the Greatest City Ever Cultivated. That’s right. Those of you who were lucky enough to catch my little stint on Fox News’ College Experiment during the USC weekend know what I am talking about. Others call our dear South Bend the City that Sparkles, or simply just Sparkles. 
This is not meant to be a bombas­tic attack on critics of the Bend. I know you all love your hometowns. I do too. If we are to foster stronger University-community relations, however, we’ve gotta change these nasty ‘tudes about the place that students and faculty alike seem to harbor. 
South Bend is a small(ish) town and there is no pro sport team here, and we can’t forget to mention the fact that the 25-foot Chase “tower” is DTSB’s tallest building. My chal­lenge to you therefore is to just take South Bend for all it’s worth. The Farmer’s Market on Saturdays. Riverside Drive. Finnegan’s, Corby’s and CJ’s. The fact that you see at least five people you know every time you go to Martin’s. 
I think we should all just accept that fact that South Bend’s charm and comfort outweigh its nasty weather and its monotony. Four years is enough to get to know a place and it’s enough to call that place your new home. I think good ol’ Fr. Sorin and his boys had it right when they chose the Bend as the location for this great University of ours, don’t you? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT DO YOU T INK OF T E JOYCE CENTER RENOVATIONS? 





Katie Pryor  Anna Bax  Dan Collins  Steve Conway  Ben Foley  
freshman McGlinn  junior Le Mans  senior Alumni  freshman Stanford  freshman Morrissey  
“I like the new court and the shamrock in the middle. I don’t like that it’s smaller though.”  “I think it’s a nicer facility. I like the fact that they replaced the bleachers with unified navy seats.”  “It rocks my leprechaun socks off!”  “I like it a lot. I really like the new court and the shamrock in the middle. I think it’s really cute.”  “It’s sick. It’s a good size and our team dominates it.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer On Halloween, Notre Dame’s Project Fresh dances to Michael Jackson’s “Thriller” in South Dining Hall while in Halloween costumes. 
OFFBEAT 
Man convicted in orange rabbit pedicab hit-and-run 
PORTLAND, Ore. — The Mercedes driver testified he didn’t see the 6-foot-tall orange rabbit driving a pedi­cab because he was fum­bling for a dropped cell phone. 
Pedicab driver Kate Altermatt tells The Oregonian she finds that hard to believe, noting she was wearing abright orange bunny suit — for Easter — and her Cascadia Pedicab was lit up with reflectors and a blinking red light. She says the crash sent her fly­ingandtotaledthepedicab. 
She confronted the driver Wednesday in Multnomah CountyCircuitCourt. 
After a daylong trial, Judge Karin Immergut found Edward Cespedes-Rodriguez guilty of hit and run driving for leaving the scene of the crash last April 12. 
But Immergut cleared the 34-year-old Portland man of recklessly endangering another person. 
Lay-Z-Boy from drunk driving case to be auctioned 
DULUTH, Minn. — A motorized La-Z-Boy used by a man who pleaded guilty to driving it drunk is going up for auction. But police said interested bid­ders need to keep it off the streets. The chair, powered by a lawnmower engine, comes equipped with a stereo, cup holders and lights. 
Police in Proctor, in northern Minnesota, are putting the seized chair up for auction on eBay on Thursday. The proceeds will go to the police, state and the prosecuting attor­ney. 
But Chief Walter Wobig cautions that the chair isn’t “street legal,” so any buyer should stick to the living room — or at most a parade. 
IN BRIEF 
Solo play: Blue Lias will be performed by Claudia Stevens today at the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. Tickets are available for $3 -$5. The per­formance is a part of the “Darwin at Notre Dame” series. 
A colloquium, “The Structure of Super-Heavy Atomic Nuclei”, will be held in 118 Nieuwland on Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m., and will feature Dr. Roderick Clark from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. 
Author David Matlin will be reading at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on Wednesday from 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. This reading is spon­sored by the Creative Writing Program. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will hold its fall concert on Thursday at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 8 p.m. Tickets are available for $3 -$6. 
The Glee Club Alumni Reunion Concert will take place on Friday at the Leighton Concert Hall in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Tickets are available for pur­chase from $3 -$8. The Glee Club will be joined by several hundred of its alumni for its triennial reunion concert and will include sacred and secu­lar music. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 

Atlanta 67 / 44 Boston 51 / 40 Chicago 52 / 34 Denver 47 / 38 Houston 75 / 54 Los Angeles 82 / 55 Minneapolis 48 / 28 New York 55 / 43 Philadelphia 56 / 42 Phoenix 89 / 60 Seattle 56 / 38 St. Louis 64 / 37 Tampa 83 / 65 Washington 57 / 45 
Monday, November 2, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Jerusalem study abroad program approved for2010 
housing complex.By SARAH MERVOSH “It’s a much higher level of 
News Writer 
security than we’re used to see­ing,” Office of International For students who study Studies Assistant Director Liz abroad in Jerusalem this sum-LaFortune said. “There will be mer, Bethlehem will only be a lots of people no older than you 15-minute walk, but one securi-watching you and carrying mili­ty checkpoint, away from their tary weapons and if they want 

just respect their customs, everything is normal,” he said. 
Ford said Americans see Israel and Palestine differently than how they actually are because the media only por­trays the violent, and more interesting, news. 
“The only time I think the American public hears about events in Israel or events in Palestine is when something major erupts,” he said. “Day by day when you pick up the news­paper it’s just boring stuff like the stock numbers or who is giving a speech today.” 
Senior Laura deGive also said she never felt unsafe while in Israel. 
“Israeli soldiers with big guns were a constant sight, and the Wall snaked behind our com­pound, dividing the West Bank from Israel,” deGive said. “But apart from these visual reminders of the Holy Land’s instability, I never felt myself to be in any danger.” 
LaFortune said last year’s success was based on “careful planning, the limits we put on students and the good judgment of the students that were there.” 
“We cannot guarantee your safety there. But we have a lot of tools are our disposal to help you be safe,” she said. 
DeGive said the experience of being in Jerusalem was well worth any of the security risks. 
“No one should decide to not go to Jerusalem because of the security risks,” deGive said. “The experience is absolutely invaluable. You learn fifty times as much as you could from a textbook. The Jerusalem Program is an incredible oppor­tunity.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
to detain you and ask you tons of questions, they can.” 
Though the U.S. State Department issued a travel warning to Israel, the West Bank and the Gaza strip, the Jerusalem study abroad pro­gram was recently approved for Summer 2010. It will be Notre Dame’s second summer pro­gram in Israel since the semes­ter study abroad program was suspended in 2000 due to vio­lence, LaFortune said. 
LaFortune said students will be able to study abroad in Jerusalem despite the warning because the program will be highly struc­tured and will by cities and any safety con­cerns that may exist. 
“They might say, you know what, if you have plans to go to Bethlehem today, I would change them. And we trust them on that,” LaFortune said. “Everything depends on the security situations of the day. That’s one of the reasons that we are able to do this.” 
Students who study abroad in Jerusalem will also be required to sign an addition to du Lac, LaFortune said. 
“Like having to be back in the building at a certain hour or leaving the facility only in groups at night.
“Because there is a State
adjust sched-Literally down ules according Department warning, we to things like to current you may not 
have to structure things
events. bring Israeli 
so we can see and do as
“Because soldiers back there is a much as possible but not to the facili-S t a t e ties,” she said.
worry about your safety
Department When stu­
every minute.” 
warning, we dents first have to struc-arrive in ture things so Liz LaFortune Jerusalem, we can see staff at the 
assistant director
and do as Tantur
Offce of International Studies 
much as possi­ble but not worry about your safety every minute,” she said. 
LaFortune said some areas would simply be too dangerous to visit. 
“You will not visit the Gaza Strip. Gaza is a complex place but certainly a place that is not peaceful for a person who does­n’t understand the situation,” she said. “There are other cities that are off limits, but there are a whole lot of places we can go.” 
The staff at The Tantur Institute for Ecumenical Studies, where the students will stay, live in the area and will provide knowledge about near-Institute will 
give them a tour of Bethlehem and Jerusalem. After students are familiar, they will be allowed to travel independently in the cities. 
Despite the inherent danger of traveling to Israel, LaFortune said last year’s summer abroad program went smoothly and had no security incidents. 
Senior Craig Ford, who trav­eled to Jerusalem last year, said he felt relatively safe while in the country. 
“What I learned when I was there is that Israel is actually a low crime country. People just generally want to get on with their daily lives. As long as you 

By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
“Bitchin’ Bodies,” written by Saint Mary’s College pro­fessor Terri Russ and pub­lished in 2008, discusses the self-image issues women cope with in our society. Russ recently called to attention the enormous role that body image plays in the lives of women. 
“The problem of body dis­satisfaction is one that all women struggle with at some point,” Russ said. “While we all may experience it differ­ently and to different degrees, there still exists some com­monality of experience.” 
Russ’ book is centered on young women’s experiences with their bodies, and how they communicate about them. She focuses on the ten­sion between how girls view their bodies and the ideal of the female body which society creates. In “Bitchin’ Bodies,” Russ said, she analyzes these topics in a feminist light. By writing about her experiences with students, Russ portrays how women’s self-image can affect their success in life. 
“[Young women] are con­vinced that their ultimate success and happiness is 
College professor discussesself-image 
dependant fully on the size and appearance of their bod­ies,” Russ said in her book. 
Russ said she is not trying to criticize or even to offer advice to young women deal­ing with this issue. Rather, Russ hopes her book can stimulate awareness of the problem. Although she acknowledges the theme of her book is not revolutionary, Russ argues it is often over­looked in our society. Russ said she wants to encourage society to acknowledge and discuss this problem. 
“My goal with the book is to open an avenue of conversa­tion that is often implied but not directly addressed,” she said. “I wanted to provide us with a vocabulary with which we can discuss these issues.” 
Russ said she had not always planned on writing a book. The idea originated from a paper Russ wrote for a graduate class. 
Russ has been teaching at Saint Mary’s since 2007. She is an assistant professor in Communication Studies and is also involved with Women’s Studies. 
Bitchin’ Bodies is for sale in the Sain Mary’s bookstore. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@smc.edu 
page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 2, 2009 
Social work project receives grant 
New funding will help students travel to rural Tipton County 
large number of people who 
By MEGAN LONEY 
are growing older. 
News Writer 
Burke said she feels this is an important area of research To help defray to high costs due to longer life expectancy. of gas, the Tipton County “Our society is only beginning Community foundation award-to adapt to the reality that ed Saint Mary’s College a $500 more of us are living longer grant for social work students than ever before,” Burke to travel as part of the said. “Higher education needs Developing to prepare our Lifespan students for Communities “Our society is only this reality by in Rural and offering learn-
beginning to adapt to
Urban Indiana ing opportuni­
the reality that more of
Project. ties in new and 
Senior Kate us are living longer existing cours-Doornbos es. It is an 
than ever before.” 
wrote the exciting time to grant proposal be alive in his-
Dr. JoAnn Burke 
to the tory because Foundation chair never before asking for the Department of Social Work have so many 
money to help cover the cost of students’ travel expendi­ture. 
The Developing Lifespan Communities in Rural and Urban Indiana Project, which has been in effect for one year, has two main purposes, Dr. JoAnn Burke, chair of the department of social work, said. 
The first is to demonstrate to both Tipton and St. Joseph counties that we need to help our communities become bet­ter places to both grow up and grow old, she said. 
The second is to help stu­dents prepare to work and live in our society which has a of us lived for 
so long.” 
Third-year students in Burke’s Social Work Practice with Groups class are partici­pating in this project. They are focusing on one rural county — Tipton — and one urban county — St. Joseph. 
As part of this project, stu­dents conduct research focus groups with community mem­bers in Tipton and St. Joseph Counties in order to learn how the counties are evolving to be able to better serve the needs of people of all ages. 
Students direct the groups with questions about the availability of health and social services, transportation, universal housing (houses for individuals even if they devel­op disabilities), sidewalks and crosswalks for children and adults with disabilities to use within the two counties, Burke said. 
Transportation is an espe­cially important topic for peo­ple who are unable to drive. They lose their independence if they live in an area without public transportation, Burke said. 
After three years, the results of these focus groups will be combined into one written study. 
Addressing the second half of the project’s goal, Burke believes that this project pre­pares students for futures centered on community wel­fare. 
“Our current social work students are being prepared through this opportunity to be involved with urban planners, health care administrators, social service administrators, federal and state and city offi­cials, schools and other insti­tutions to help us better pre­pare our communities to make needed changes,” Burke said. 
Burke said she is excited Saint Mary’s is beginning to offer learning opportunities based on our society where there are more of us living longer than ever before. 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
“I was happy that after so many close wins, we got back to the really good start we had the beginning of the season,” sopho­more MarcelFrenkel said. 
After the team had taken a commanding lead, coaches began to use younger players, many of whom had never played in a college game before. Sophomore wide receiver John Goodman caught his first touch­down pass in thefourthquarter. 
“I thought it was awesome,” junior Kara Tharpe said. “I know Goodman, so when he scored that touchdown, I was running up anddown the halls.” 
The primetime start came in the middle of Halloween week­end for students, but that didn’t determanyfrom watching. 
“It didn’t really matter … I was justglad wewon,” Frenkel said. 
Members of the Notre Dame Band traveled to San Antonio this weekend, and were begin­ning the trip home at 4:30 a.m. on Sunday morning. The band was there not only to show sup­port for the team, but also par­ticipated in exhibitions at local high schools and played on the San Antonio Riverwalk. 
“San Antonio was the most hospitable city I’ve traveled to with the band,” senior Band member Catherine Carrell said. “The fans roared like I’ve never heardthem roar before.” 
The game at the Alamodome was the beginning of a series of off-site home games, with the intent to play at least one per year, as stated by the Notre Dame athletics Web site, und.com. 
The Irish play Navy at home next weekend, with kickoff scheduled for 2:30 p.m. 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler1@nd.edu 

Irish fans watch as the football team defeats the Washington State 

World & Nation 
Monday, November 2, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Afghan pres. given second term 
KABUL — President Hamid Karzai was effectively handed a second five-year term Sunday when his only challenger dropped out of the race, and the Obama administration said it was prepared to work with the man it has previously criticized to combat corruption and confrontthe Taliban insurgency. 
President Barack Obama has been waiting for a new government in Kabul to announce whether he will send tens of thousands of new troops to Afghanistan. The war has intensified and October was the deadliest month of the eight-year war for U.S. forces. 
Incumbent president leads election 
MAPUTO, Mozambique — Incumbent President Armando Guebuza leads in Mozambique’s elections by a wide margin, with morethan80percentofvotescounted. 
Resultssofar giveGuebuzamore than76per­cent of the presidential vote, and his Frelimo partybetween75and80percentofparliament’s 250seats. 
Lucas Jose, a National Elections Commission spokesman, said Sunday it may take more than a week for remaining results to come in from remote regions. Presidential and parliamentary electionswereheldOct.28. 
Foreignobserversdeemedvotingfreeandfair. 
Daviz Simango, third in the presidential race so far behind Guebuza and opposition leader Afonso Dhlakama, complains his party was unfairly left out of most parliamentary races. Election officials rejected his candidates’ paper­work. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Officer killed in Seattle shooting 
SEATTLE — Seattle police searched for clues Sunday in a shooting that killed a police officer and injured a trainee, marking the city’s first officer killed in the line of duty since 2006. 
Assistant Police Chief Jim Pugel said a male officer was training a female student officer in a marked patrol car Saturday night when their vehicle was suddenly struck sev­eral times by gunfire, shortly after 10 p.m. 
Pugel said a light-color car pulled along­side the parked police cruiser and began shooting in the mostly residential Central District, east of downtown Seattle. 
The male officer was struck and killed in the car. The student officer ducked, then returned fire, Pugel said. 
“The officer was murdered,” Pugel said. 
Language barrier leads to stabbing 
BERGENFIELD, N.J. — A New Jersey mother whose inability to understand English apparently misled her to believe that her children would be taken away stabbed her 8-year-old son with a steak knife, then tried to kill herself, police said. 
Elida Marroquin was charged with attempted murder, aggravated assault, child endangerment and weapons offenses follow­ing Saturday’s incident at the family’s home in Bergenfield. Bail was set at $500,000, and both she and the child were expected to recover from their wounds. 
Authorities were still working to confirm what country Marroquin is from and other personal details about her. More information was expected to be made public when she is arraigned on Monday. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Schools raise health costs for top staff 
GREENWOOD, Ind. — A struggling econo­my, rising costs and concerns about fairness have prompted Indiana school districts to slowly begin abandoning a long-held policy of offering administrators health insurance for $1 or less a year. 
Nearly 60 of Indiana’s 354 public school districts now require administrators to pay more than $1 for their health insurance. That’s a big shift from a decade ago, when most districts shouldered the insurance costs for their top staff, said Nelson Miller, a con­sultant with the Indiana School Boards Association. 
Teen suicides spur action in Calif. 
School district searches for answers while students create T-shirt awareness campaign 
Associated Press 
PALO ALTO, Calif. — Grim news hit this university town in late October just two days before a PTA forum on teenage stress: Another Palo Alto teen had died after stepping in front of a com­muter train, the fourth such suicide in less than six months. 
With hundreds of parents crowding the forum, school Superintendent Kevin Skelly told the anxious gathering that the latest death was “a cruel irony” because city officials were working to prevent another tragedy. “We have all experienced situations where, despite every effort, results fall short of our hopes,” Skelly said. 
Experts have struggled to understand what generates clusters of teen suicides, a phenomenon that breaks into a community’s aware­ness when they occur in a public place, as they did in Palo Alto. But officials in this San Francisco peninsula city of about 59,000 say they’re deploying a wide array of approaches to stop it from growing. 
Those efforts are moving with greater urgency since the most recent suicide on Oct. 19 that involved a 16­year-old male student at Henry M. Gunn High School. while city officials negotiate and hosts a social network-should be treated as a public Two other Gunn students, a withthe railroad on adesign ing site where classmates health crisis. 17-year-old boy in May and to make them less accessi-can find someone to listen. Merily Keller, a founder of a 17-year-old girl a month ble. Students are discour-She also created a Web site the Texas Suicide Prevention later, also took their own aged from erecting shrines called “Henry M. Gunn Gives Council, tried to “prevent a lives on the train tracks. A at the sites, which might Me Hope,” where teachers downward spiraling of grief” 13-year-old girl died the romanticize the deaths, and and students share random when her 18-year-old son same way in August, days the media has been asked acts of kindness and beauty became the fifth andlastboy before she was to become a not to make public those thathave come their way. to die in asuicide cluster in Gunn freshman. At least one locations. “A lot of the time, the Austin, Texas, in 2000. She Gunn student, another 17-Some of the high school’s problem is no one really and her husband buried him year-old boy, was prevented 1,900 students also have knows the exact reason why at a family ranch so his from killing himself in June created T-shirts with the someone would step on the friends could not gather at after his mother followed message “Talk to Me” and tracks,” she said. “People his grave site without adult him to the tracks. formed pacts not to harm keep on searching for supervision. 
“There is no single answer. themselves. One student left answers, but sometimes you “One of the biggest risk There is not necessarily a bracelets made of heart-won’t ever really know factors is knowing another cumulative set of answers shaped walnut shells for because the person is not kid who has died by sui­either,” said Greg Hermann, others in need of cheering here anymore. cide,” said Keller, who a spokesman for Palo Alto, up to find. A group posts Vastly different communi-described that particular which convened a task force optimistic notes around ties that have been in the warning sign as having “a of psychologists, clergy and campus. same situation also had differentquality.” others to prepare aresponse Joyce Liu, a17-year-old valuable lessons to offer. One “It’s like juggling some-plan. “There are intelligent senior, created a peer-run that resonated deeply in thing — if you have too steps we can be taking.” support group that staffs a Palo Alto was that suicide many risk factors, they are 
Police patrol the tracks table during free periods can be contagious and goingto crash,” she said. 

ISRAEL 
Authorities arrest Jewish terror suspect 
a lone wolf, and authorities say he spokesman Micky Rosenfeld. “He was
Associated Press 
acted alone. deeply involved in terrorism in all dif-
JERUSALEM — Israeli authorities Jerusalem police commander ferent levels.” have arrested a Jewish-American Aharon Franco said Teitel immigrated Results of the police investigation extremist suspected of carrying out a to Israel from Florida, and that he will be turned over to the state prose-series of high-profile hate crimes, grew up on U.S. military bases as the cutor to prepare an indictment. security officials said Sunday. son of a dentist serving in the In his most noted attack, Teitel is 
Police and Shin Bet security forces Marines. accused of sending a booby-trapped say Jack Teitel, a 37-year-old ultra-Franco said a joint police and Shin gift basket in March 2008 to the home Orthodox Jewish West Bank settler, Bet operation nabbed Teitel earlier of a family of American messianic was behind the killing of two Arabs, this month and he confessed to the Jews in Israel, who believe that Jesus the targeting of a peace activist and crimes and re-enacted them. Police is the Messiah but still consider them-an attack on a breakaway Jewish sect also displayed photos of a large selves Jewish. over a period of 12 years. weapons cache seized from the sus-The explosion seriously wounded 
Authorities originally suspected an pect’s home. the family’s 15-year-old son, Ami extremist Jewish underground for “He is like a serial killer. This guy Ortiz, severing two toes, damaging his some of the attacks. But acquaintanc-was a Jewish terrorist who targeted hearing and harming his promising es described Teitel, a father of four, as different types of people,” said police basketball career. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 2, 2009 
on the characters’ “redemptive arc” by playing versions of the 
AlamoPlay 
hymn “Amazing Grace” continued from page 1 between acts. Last year’s play 
continued from page 1 
focused heavily on the theme of alcohol, with actors bringing 
elements replicated down while we’ll also see some mate-more red Solo cups onstage 
there.“ rial from the first show that between each act. 
On Friday evening fans gath­wasn’t in last year’s produc-“This year, our theme is that 
ered atthe Alamo for apeprally, tion. There’s always new mate-‘people just like you are telling 
which featured Notre Dame rial and stories we feel need to their stories,’” Khorey said. 
announcers Don Criqui and be re-told.” “We’re working to bring the 
AllenPinkett,SanAntonioMayor Producer Ellen Rolfes said cast and audience together.” 
Julián Castro and athletic direc­because the play consists “Loyal Daughters and Sons” 
torJackSwarbrick. entirely of Notre Dame stu-will take place in the Carey 
“We started with a pep rally in dents’ true stories, it deeply Auditorium in the Hesburgh 
front of the [Alamo] that was reflects the community to Library at 7 p.m. on 
attendedby8,000to 10,000peo­which it is presented. Wednesday, Thursday and 
ple,” he said. “[The Alamo] peo­“The idea is to reflect what’s Friday. This year’s production 
ple said it was bigger than any-going on at Notre Dame right features 33 pieces in an hour 
thingthehadseen.” bodyweputabody.” decisiontoplaythere. now,” she said. “We don’t and a half performance. 
The festivities continued After the Mass was over, “This whole idea came up in choose what is represented. A panel discussion will follow 
throughout the day Saturday Seamon said the Band played on 2005 when the NCCA allowed There are pieces which reflect Wednesday’s and Thursday’s 
with the recreation of many of the steps of the Cathedral in teams to play 12 games per sea-opinions contrary to mine and performances, and advocates 
thetypicalgamedayevents. front of thousands of fans. The son. We knew we’d have seven there are pieces that I relate to. will be positioned throughout 
One of these events was the San Antonio police then cleared home games in South Bend and We are just facilitators of the the theater to talk to audience 
Saturday Scholars Series. Three the streets and the band then started looking at playing material.” members if needed. 
Notre Dame professors traveled marchedamiletothestadium. aneighthontheroad,”hesaid. A unique feature of the pro-“Parts of the show will be 
to San Antonio to lecture about “It looked like the beginning of Seamon said the city of San duction is its inclusive casting, pretty intense so expect to feel 
the Catholic Church and the the New YorkCitymarathon,” he Antonio campaigned to host the which creates a mixed yet uni-strong compassion,” Khorey 
Latino population and how the said. “Anywhere from ten to fif-first game of this nature, and it fied community of performers. said. “Go in feeling calm and 
twoaffecteachother. teen thousand people followed fellintotheschedulewell. “We never turn anyone relaxed and be open to a range 
In the afternoon, University theBandtothestadium.” “The people of San Antonio away,” Rolfes said. “Anyone of emotions because the show 
President Fr. John Jenkins and While Seamon said it is impos-made a very good pitch for this who auditions gets a part. deals with a range of perspec­
about two dozen other priests sible to replicate Notre Dame to happen, and the [Alamodome] People from very different tives and experiences. There’s 
celebrated Mass at the San Stadium, he said the people of had a lot of structure in place social circles and life experi-definitely some humor in there 
FernandoCathedral. San Antonio helped create a that could accommodate a ences are coming together and, as well.” 
“We had one ofthe mostbeau-home-likeatmosphere. crowd,”hesaid. to me, that community is the Khorey said she is hopeful 
tiful Masses I’ve ever seen,” “The people were great, they Seamon also said traveling to most important thing.” that the play will create dia-
Seamon said. “Fr. John preached opened up their arms and wel-San Antonio was aperfect way Khorey and co-director Shay logue and, with time, bring 
anddidawonderfuljob.” comed us. Itfeltlike home away totraveltoadifferentareaofthe Thornton bring new perspec-about meaningful change. 
Seamon said the trumpet sec-from home,” he said. “They country than the schedule nor­tives to the production, which She referenced a verse from 
tion ofthe bandplayedthe Alma dressed up the inside of the sta-mallypermits. each director has treated very the Bible, John 3:20-21, which 
Mater after communion and a dium, all the banners said ‘Go “We don’t get to certain parts differently over the years. says “Everyone who does evil 
Mariachi choir also sang at the Irish.’” of the county on a regular basis “Every director has put her hates the light, and will not 
Mass. While much of the talk about and we wanted to replicate own personal spin on it,” come into the light for fear that 
“The Cathedral was standing Notre Dame’s game in San [game day] to those who don’t Khorey said. his deeds will be exposed.” 
room only. We fit 1,500 people Antonio was centered on the cometoSouthBend,”hesaid. Liddy’s original production “This verse talks about evil 
inside and there were probably recruitment of Texas athletes, took place in the Decio Theater rejoicing in darkness,” Khorey 
about 1,000 people outside,” he Seamon said that was only one Contact Liz O’Donnell at and featured an actual futon on said. “I’m hoping that with this 
said. “Wherever we could put a small component of the school’s eodonne1@nd.edu stage, Khorey said, to bring show, we can flip on a couple of home the student reality of the lights.” stories told. The second annual production ran in Washington Contact Tess Civantos at Hall and the director focused tcivanto@nd.edu 
shown at the upcoming ND Film Festival. 
Film 
He has a documentary and short film in the works, but he is 
continued from page 1 
also working on shooting a test who would be in the movie look pilot for a TV series. college and high school age, and The series, “Off-Campus” fea­he chose comedy because he tures Lyons’ roommates and he “[does] comedy better than hopes to make more episodes of drama.” it in the spring. He is also work-
Lyons said he had to take into ing on a pilot about working in account his location as well as retail, something he did “off and several other factors. on again for about five years.” 
“We did it in Sioux Falls, Lyons hopes to send in the South Dakota so there are not scripts to places in Los Angeles many interesting places to to see if they would be interest-shoot,” he said. ed in them. 
Wilka is largely responsible Beyond these projects, Lyons for making it available on some said he is always writing or cable outlets, and they are now working on something. working on making it accessible “If you want to get into some-on NetFlix. thing, nothing is stopping you,” 
“[NetFlix] will post the movie he said. without having made any DVDs Anyone interested in learning of it. If enough people put it in more about the film can go their queue, then they will pro-online and watch the trailer at duce them,” Lyons said. imdb.com 
Currently, Lyons is working on several other projects, a couple Contact Ashley Charnley at of which he hopes to have acharn01@saintmarys.edu 



The Observer 
Business
Monday, November 2, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
After market slide, data gains urgency 
NEW YORK — After a forceful reminder that the third quarter is history, stock investors are now uneasy aboutthe final months ofthe year. 
Stocks posted their biggest losses in four months Friday as traders worried that con­sumers won’t be able to help lift the economy. Only a day earlier, investors celebrated news thatthe economygrew atthe fastestpace in two years in the July-September period. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 200 points Thursday onlyto tumble 250 on Friday. 
The market’s volatility adds urgency to a flood of data this week that could help signal whether investors have been prescient or premature in the bets they’ve been placing on a rebound in the economy. The benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 index lost 2 percent for October to break a seven-month streak of gains but is still up 53.2 percentfrom a12-year low in March. 
Much of this week’s data on employment, manufacturing, services and home sales will provide investors with more up-to-date snap­shots of the economy than last week’s numbers on the third quarter. The Federal Reserve also will weigh in after it wraps up a two-day meet­ing on interest rate policy. 
Union: No strike during Series 
PHILADELPHIA — The Philadelphia transit system’s largest union agreedSaturday notto go on strike as contract talks continued hours before the start of Game 3 of the World Series, Pennsylvania’s governor and the city’s mayor said. 
Gov. Ed Rendell and Mayor Michael Nutter told reporters late Saturday afternoon that a 6 
p.m. strike deadline would pass with no walkout by the union representing more than 5,000 bus drivers, subway and trolley operators and mechanics of the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority. 
Rendell said there had been “substantial progress” and that although no agreement had yet been reached, he hoped one could be con­cluded quickly. He said he had told both sides to stay at the bargaining table or risk “significant consequences” of losing state support for mass transit. 
Rendell declined to discuss issues still dividing the two sides, but said such negotiations always centered on wages, pensions andhealth care. 
Millions without sick leave fearful 
Swine flu among biggest fears for Americans with no health benefits or little pay 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — For millions of Americans the rule is simple: If you don’t come to work, you don’tgetpaid. 
That idea drives an untold numbers of carpenters, day care workers, servers, shop­keepers and small-business owners to their jobs each day. Sniffles or not. 
As the swine flu spreads across the nation — and public health officials plead with the ill to, please, stay home in bed for several days until the fever goes away — a large segment of the American work force will face a tough choice about whether to call in sick or simply muddle through. That’s because when skip­ping work means skipping food on the table or missing a rent payment, staying in bed isn’t as simple as it sounds. 
Kara Knoche, 28, is wor­ried about getting swine flu and the money she would lose by missing a week of work. The Atlanta waitress is downing Vitamin C sup­plements, going out of her way to eat immune system-boosting foods and avoiding friends with the sniffles or hacking coughs. 
“If you don’t save up, you’re basically behind and you’re broke. Every dollar their tips: moving desks far-swine flu” and stayed home, So what will he do if he you make after that is prob-ther apart, creating more he said. gets sickthis winter? ablygoingto go to bills,” she shifts to have fewer people About a third of the “If I’m well enough to sit said. “That makes for avery on duty at atime and reduc-nation’s workers don’t have up in bed with alaptop, I hard month. Aperson has to ing employeetravel. paid sickleave, accordingto can still work,” he said. “I eat.” But that advice doesn’t do the U.S. Department of can work from home some-
Across the country much for many companies Labor. But even some work-how, some way. It may not employers of all sizes are — particularly small busi-ers who do don’t take it even be a full eight hours, making contingency plans nesses or those in the serv-because they fear retribu-but I can get a few hours a for ahard-hittingflu season. ice industry where sick tion from their bosses if they day.” 
Some business owners are leave is almost unheard of don’tshow up. Even that might not be cross-training employees to or too costly for owners to The problem can be worse doable for some particularly fill in for absent colleagues. afford. for parents who worry not illpatients. Others are relaxing sick “We don’t have a real just about their own health, Last year, Chicago real leave policies that require a good contingency plan in but their children’s. After estate agent Jen Sanders doctor’s note. (Many doc-place right now,” said all, asickkid who gotthe flu was felled for five days by tors’ offices are advising Gordon Weitzel, owner of from Mom or Dad can mean the seasonal flu after forgo-swine flu patients to stay Dayton’s Chicken &Seafood even more time offthejob. ing aflu shot for the first away unless their symptoms in Salisbury, Md. His staff of Kevin Huigens, 52, knows time in a decade. Stuck at are severe to prevent over-36does nothave sickleave. calling in sick means bring-home, she had to call other whelming the health care “I’ve got some servers ing home a smaller pay-real estate agents to attend system.) who cook, and I’ve got a lot check, or possibly none at everything from home 
Some corporations are of different people I can flip-all. As a technology contrac-inspections to showing list-heeding advice from the U.S. flop. But it most certainly tor in suburban Chicago, his ings to potential buyers so Centers for Disease Control would be a hardship if 20 or job doesn’t come with sick she wouldn’t risk losing her and Prevention. Among 25 percent of my staff had leave or vacation time. commission. 

Hard-hit factory towns slow to feel relief 
Associated Press ahead of the rest of the country, when For the Obama administration, Lamar 
thefurniture-makerO’SullivanIndustries is as much aproblem of expectations as 
WASHINGTON —Many communities closedits doors in mid-2007, immediate-itis ofpolicy. For allthe items contained hit hardest by job losses, those built ly leaving 700 workers unemployed and in the stimulus, from tax cuts to road around dying factories and mills, have turning its factory into a million-square-work to new schools, nothing could been slowestto see relieffrom President footvacancy. quickly replace what factory towns like Barack Obama’s stimulus plan, under-That began what city manager Lynn Lamarhadlost. scoring how hard it is for Washington Caltoncalls“aslowdeath.”Storesfolded. That’s why the White House says it’s policymakers to create lasting work in A50-year-oldcardealershipwentunder. unfairtojudgethestimulusbytheunem­areasthatneeditmost. One in 10 jobs disappeared last year. ployment rate because no amount of 
The manufacturing industry has shed Everyone suffered, from the downtown stimulus was going to keep Lamar’s hundredsofthousandsofjobsduringthe floristto the dentist who cleanedthe fac-unemployment rate from approaching recession as plants have closed or scaled toryworkers’teeth. 12percent. back. Places such as the southwest Even Mayor Keith Divine filed for Nationwide, only 2,500 of the 640,000 Missouri city ofLamar, tucked amid end-unemployment when his furniture store stimulus jobs announcedFriday were in less fields of winter wheat and soybeans, wentoutofbusiness.Henowsellscarpet themanufacturingindustry,and manyof have seen the cornerstones of their and mattresses and says he hasn’t seen those appear to be mislabeled. Teachers economies disappear, leaving a gap that evidence of the 640,000 jobs saved or were the biggest winners because states even billions in roadwork and govern-created nationwide thanks to the $787 used federal aid to fill budget gaps, then mentaidcannotfill. billionstimulus. creditedthe money with avoidinglayoffs 
Lamar began feeling the recession “Whatwork?Where?”Divineasks. —evenifnosuchlayoffswereplanned. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, November 2, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
Notre Dame leadership 
In The “Abolition of Man,” C.S. Lewis argued that modern education produces “what may be called Men without Chests. It is an outrage that they should be commonly spoken of as Intellectuals. This gives them the chance to say 
Frank T. Pimentel
that he who attacks them attacks 

Guest Columnist
Intelligence. It is not so. They are not distinguished from other men by any unusual skill in finding truth nor any virginal ardour to pursue her.” Sadly, we see this in full effect at Notre Dame today. 
First, in their initial bumbling attempt to defend the Commencement invitation to President Obama, the University dis­tributed laughable “talking points” to the Board of Trustees, which managed, in one swipe, to insult the intelligence of anyone who questioned the propriety of the invitation and to directly insult the initial Laetare Award honoree. 
Then, Fr. Jenkins compounded the error by issuing a statement to the effect that he, presumably in contrast to the shanty Catholic rubes who saw through the artifice concocted by Notre Dame in its perpetual desire for respect by those whose opinions matter in academia, was going to deliver an “inclusive and respectful speech.” In other words, as Lewis predicted, those who attack him, attack “Intelligence.” Alas, the com­mencement debacle was not the most recent example at Notre Dame of Lewis’ foretelling. 
Last week Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick announced that next October Notre Dame would be fortifying its foot­ball schedule by playing Western Michigan University. (Parenthetically, I’ll state that for all I know, WMU is a great school and runs a fine football program. But that’s kind of the point; about all I know of WMU is that it is in Kalamazoo 
— and I doubt that most anyone not from Michigan or northern Indiana even knows that.) Of course, that announce­ment understandably caused instant deflation among nearly anybody who harbors hope that the Fighting Irish will once again become the team it was under Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian or Holtz. (By way of brief examples, on our way to the 1988 National Championship, Notre Dame played Michigan, Miami and USC in the regular season. The next year we played Michigan, USC, Penn State and Miami before the bowl game. In ‘90 we played Michigan, Miami, Tennessee, Penn State and USC in the regular season.) 
But that wasn’t the end of the conster­nation. Instead, echoing Jenkins’ pro­nouncements surrounding commence­ment, Swarbrick announced with respect to the inevitable blacklash, “It reflects a not very sophisticated view of what’s going on out there.” As with Jenkins, those who attack him attack “Intelligence.” But I am not fooled. In the case of football, the problem isn’t finding opponents on short notice, it’s finding opponents who will be bought, not expecting a return visit by Notre Dame. This scheduling philosophy, deemed “7-4-1” for shorthand, meaning seven home games, four road games and one “neutral site” game televised on NBC (amounting in substance then to eight home games and four road games), requires materially watering the schedule down and making it, frankly, boring. 
But this was intentional. Notre Dame knew that if it shorthanded itself by establishing a Potemkin 7-4-1 “require­ment,” it would eviscerate future sched­ules so badly that, by contrast, a league schedule (Big 10? Big East? ACC?) would be appealing. Of course, this is a false choice. Simply returning to a more balanced home/road schedule (6-6, or even 7-5), with the historical norm of playing home-and-home series with marquee schools, would immediately solve the problem. But that itself is the problem. 
The powers that be don’t want that problem — the supposed scheduling problem — solved. Rather, while alumni have always overwhelmingly opposed joining a conference for football, those in the Dome and JACC — specifically John Heisler — “know better” and want it (and for reasons having nothing to do with athletics and everything to do with those whose opinions matter in acade­mia). They don’t want to solve the scheduling “problem” that they created themselves. Rather, they have set us up to “solve” the scheduling “problem” by, sooner rather than later, throwing up their hands and arguing that the only feasible solution left will be to, surprise, join a conference. 
But my Intelligence will not be insult­ed. Moreover, until Notre Dame decides to place Men with Chests back in leader­ship, my checkbook (which had hereto­fore been wide open) will remain closed. 
Frank T. Pimentel is an alumnus of the Class of ‘84 and ‘97 and can be contacted at frankinlaredo@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Joseph McMahon Douglas Farmer Amanda Gray Eric Prister Whatdoyouthinkofournew Graphics Molly Sammon 
Website? 
Mary Cecilia Viewpoint 
“If this is coffee, please bring me
Mitsch Patricia 
some tea; but if this is tea, please 
Takemebackto1998! 
Scene Fernandez 
bring me some coffee.” 
Finallyinthe21stcentury Jess Shaffer Nicetrybutneedssomework. 
Abraham Lincoln 16th President of the U.S. 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint Monday, November 2, 2009 page 9 
A Notre Dame short story 
He had been here before. He couldn’t remember when, but he had been here before. Perhaps it had been in a dream, or maybe he was experiencing a moment of déjà vu. But as much as he tried to push against that brick wall, he could not remember how to get through. His fingers gripped the cold brick and tore down the wall, but he only came away with dirty, bloody fingernails. He kicked, he punched, he yelled, but nothing worked. All he knew was that he had to get to the other side soon. His life was depending on it. 
Want to write the next paragraph to the story? Submit your paragraph to NDLFshortstory@gmail.com. Limit of 200 words. Title it Part Two. This story will continue until Nov. 16. If your paragraph is selected, it will be published in Viewpoint, and you will get to read it at the NDLF panel discussion Nov. 19. The visiting authors will write the ending paragraphs. Take advantage of the opportunity to write a story along with three New York Times bestselling authors. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ladies, please! 
In response to Ms. Dougher’s letter “University of ugly girls?” (Oct.28), I would like to interject that your boyfriend’s friends do not speak for the entire male population on cam­pus. 
Though jokes trashing the looks of girls at Notre Dame are rather pervasive, it is my experience that they are made either simply in jest, or in frus­tration resulting from failed pursuits of the very women they are disparaging. Most guys I have talked to admit that there is not much to complain about. 
Visiting a couple of state schools over Fall Break cer­tainly enhanced my apprecia­tion for the ladies here at Notre Dame, and so I would just like to thank you all for being funny, independent, smart, interesting, engaging, good friends, and yes, attractive. I don’t think us guys are half bad, either. 
Alex Andre 
freshman Stanford Hall Oct. 28 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Monday, November 2, 2009 

By ALEXANDRA  KILPATRICK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
In the wake of Weezer’s seventh studio album, “Raditude,” it is essential to reflect on the L.A.-based alternative rock band’s first major effort and success, 1994’s “Weezer (The Blue Album).” Hailed among high school students and music critics alike, Weezer’s debut LP was seen as relatable to its target audi­ence, the average high school student. 
With images of lead singer Rivers Cuomo’s daydreaming adolescence doused throughout the album and a self-deprecating yet endearing humor to sup­plement them, the band won its audience over withits unexpectedgeekiness, which went against the grain of laid-back grunge rock at the time. According to All Music Guide, “What makes the band so enjoyable is their charming geekiness; instead of singing about despair, they sing about love, which is kind of refreshing in the gloom-drenched world of ‘90s guitar-pop.” 
The album opens with “My Name is Jonas,” ever-popular among “Guitar Hero III” fans, as it combines a waltz-like tempo with rapid acoustic and electric guitar riffs. According to John Luerssen’s book, “River’s Edge: The Weezer Story,” Cuomo was inspired by his brother who was having a problem with his car insur­ance after getting seriously injured in an accident atOberlin College. 
“No One Else” is an excellent example of Weezer’s tendencies to sing about ado­lescent love and use appropriate gram­mar while they’re at it. The song describes a jealous, obsessive and over-controlling boyfriend and is perhaps best exemplified by the chorus’ lyrics: “I want a girl who will laugh for no one else. / When I’m away, she puts her makeup on the shelf. / When I’m away, she never leaves the house. / I want a girl who laughs for no one else.” 
“The World Has Turned and Left Me Here” has a sweet acoustic melodic beat and convincingly passionate lead vocals and well-written, typically creative lyrics about an agonizing break up: “The world has turned andleft me here /Just where I was before you appeared. / And in your place an empty space / Has filled the void behind myface.” 

“Buddy Holly” is the upbeat second sin­gle that brought Weezer critical and com­mercial success with its music video directed by Spike Jonze, portraying the band in Arnold’s Drive-In Diner from ‘70s sitcom “Happy Days.” Now a classic, the song epitomizes geek rock with its lyrics, “Woo-ee-oo, I look just like Buddy Holly. / Oh-oh, and you’re Mary Tyler Moore. / I don’t care what they say about us any­way. /Idon’t care ‘boutthat.” 
“Undone (The Sweater Song),” the debut single, contains asimple chordpro­gression and a spoken introduction mum­bled as a background conversation by bassist Matt Sharp to supplement Cuomo’s uneasy vocals and nonsensical lyrics, “If you wantto destroy my sweater, pull this thread as I walk away.” “Surf Wax America” is a more fun and laid back song with messy guitar riffs and not much substance (“You take your car to work, I’ll take my board. / And when you’re out of fuel, I’m still afloat”), but it works for Weezer, as some of the sur­rounding songs in the album address serious issues. 
“Say It Ain’t So,” the third single, starts off with a soft, laid-back guitar and even­tually grows into loud drums, guitar, and vocals on the chorus, “Say it ain’t so. / Your drug is a heartbreaker. / Say it ain’t so. / Your love is a life-taker.” According to Luerssen, these darker lyrics were based on Cuomo’s belief that his parents had split up when he was four because his dad was an alcoholic. The song is probably the best-executed song on the album as relates to the strained yet pas­sionate lead vocals, guitar riffs and feed­back, and soft-louddynamics. 
Unfortunately, Weezer has never quite reached the same level of critical success since their “Buddy Holly” days. In fact, if you looked at Weezer’s career back­wards, starting with their most recent album and ending with their debut album, they would be a really impressive band. As it is, their critical acclaim has mysteriously and unfortunately deterio­rated with each successive album, from “Pinkerton” to “Pork and Beans”-era “The Red Album.” “The Blue Album” will always stand as their most seminal and well-executedLP. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 

The Observer 
Scene
Monday, November 2, 2009 page 11 
By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
Identitytheft, ruined credit scores. These are the words that first come to people’s minds when they contemplate the negative aspects of online shopping. But what about customerserviceandshippingtime? 
Online shopping may or may not be one of the greatest inventions of our generation. Think about it, it is such a simple, easy process. All you have to do is sit down at your computer, surf the Web for a bit and presto, a few days later, a package arrives at your dorm, containing your new clothing. Even better, because being green is so hip right now, it is an environmentally friendly way of shopping, no car needed. Not only that, it is a great way to procrastinate on that eight-page paper due the next dayinyourCollegeSeminar. 
But in reality, online shopping is not always such a cakewalk.SometimesyouchoosethewrongWebsite,and your package is not sent to your dorm room in a few days. Sometimes it takes a month, many phone calls, and threelengthye-mailsinordertoreceiveyourpackage. 
Thekeytoavoidingthisdilemmaisdiscretioninpicking reputable Web site. Clearly, big name Web sites, like J.Crew or Old Navy, are respectable sites and can easily be trusted without a lot of extra research. But it is when you go off-roading, when you really need that pair of Ugg Minisandthe officialWebsitedoesnot sellthem, thatyou runintotrouble. 
Firstthingto check on aWeb site, where does the com­pany ship its goods from? If it is a foreign country, beware, andpossiblyrun away. Or in this case,hit “Back” onyourbrowserandGoogleanotherWebsite. 
Nextthingto check on aWeb site is the “AboutUs” sec­tion, or something similar. What you are looking for here is evidence of poor-quality translation. This clearly indi­cates a foreign company and generally, though I do not like to stereotype, foretells customer service representa­tives whose first languages are not English. Weirdly placed punctuation is also a tip-off. For example, this quote is taken from aChinese-based company and clearly exhibitsclassicsymptomsofFreeTranslation.com: 
Dear friends from all over the world.warmly welcome and sincerely thank you for visiting our website of International Trade CO .Ltd., with excellent surroundings of convenient transportation and flourishing economy center. 
It is very important to not be swayed by the shiny baubles and promotions of these Web sites. It is very tempting to buy from them, with their offers of free stan­dard shipping(onlyfour to seven days), butdo notgivein, unlessthis site is fully researched. The opportunity cost of freeshippingcanbeveryhigh. 
Think about it in the context of an example. Imagine you need anew pair ofUggs because your currentpair is two years old and, quite literally, ripping at the seams. Maybe you think you are too good for the official UggAustralia Web site, so you perform a Google search and find a Web site that offers free shipping, and you just cannot resist the gleamofthatbauble.YouordertheUggs,excit­edaboutyourfind. 
But then, it’s two weeks later, the cold is seeping in through the cracks in your boots, and you’ve seen neither hide nor hair of your new shoes. In fact, when you check the tracking number, an error screen pops up. Then, to make matters worse,whenyou callthe com­pany, they repeatedly blow you off. Furthermore, you can only call after midnight to talk to the manager, though they never patch you through, becauseofthetimedifference. 
Imagine calling back twice a day, every single dayand still neverreceiv­ing answers about your shoes, only more faulty tracking numbers. Then, one glorious day three and a half weeks after you placed your order, your shoes do arrive, and it’s fantastic. Buttheangerandresentmentremains, buried deep within your soul, waiting to erupt into a 1,200-word letter to the company that, true toform,remainsunanswered. 
Be careful when shopping online. Remember that, though it is easy and you are saving the environment, there are hazards and pitfalls, so use discretion and alwaysdoyourresearch. 
Also, never use uggonlinesale.net, no matter how free theirshippingis. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 



By ELIZABETH CHATEN 
Scene Writer 
Each year, Domers return from lazy Fall Breaks to the harsh winter winds of South Bend. Chattering teeth and frozen fingers seek solace in warm soups and toasty sandwiches. This week’s Dining Hall Dish takes a few classics from the menu at Panera Bread, the go-to spot for warm paninis and savory soups, and recreates them in our dining halls.
Fontega Chicken Panini 
Traditionally baked on Focaccia, an Italian flat-bread with olive oil and sea salt, this panini’s rus­tic flair can be recreated on freshly baked French bread, drizzled with olive oil and a shake of salt. 
1. 
Grab two slices of bread — I recommend ven­turing to the freshly baked breads, located behind the desserts in SDH. 

2. 
Spread chipotle mayo on bread slices. If chipotle mayo has too much of a kick for you, pesto mayo works wonderfully as well. You can 


find these sauces by the Panini makers in the sandwich station. 
3. Top bread with grilled chicken (I prefer the slices, found in the Mexican station, but a chicken breast works just fine too), red onions, tomatoes and a sprinkle of mozzarella cheese. 
4. Grill on the Panini makers and enjoy! 
Chicken Bacon Dijon Panini 
Most people don’t realize the wide assortment of condiments our dining halls offer. This panini uses Grey Poupon mustard, one of four mustards offered in SDH. 
1. 
Grab two slices of bread. Panera uses “crisp and nutty” artisan Country bread, but I find that wheat or fresh-baked French bread works well too. 

2. Slather Grey Poupon onto both slices of bread. 

3. 
Top bread with sliced chicken, bacon, Swiss cheese and a squirt of lemon juice. You can find lemons in the salad bars. 


4. Grill on the Panini maker and enjoy! 
Broccoli Cheddar Soup in a Bread Bowl 
Panera describes its Broccoli Cheddar soup as 
“chopped broccoli, shredded carrot and select sea­sonings simmered in a velvety smooth cheese sauce.” Served daily, this staple consistently pleases hungry stomachs. With a little ingenuity, you can create this café classic in our dining halls. 
1. 
In SDH, freshly baked breads are served behind the desserts. Grab a round loaf of bread — that’s right, the whole loaf! — and cut into a bowl shape. 

2. 
Fill bread bowl halfway with Canadian cheese soup. 

3. 
Add steamed broccoli, some shredded carrots from the salad bar, a dash of salt, a dash of pepper and a small spoon of mustard. The mustard may sound a bit strange, but Panera adds it to their soup too. Just a hint of mustard kicks up the flavor a bit. 


Optional: Add some tri-color rotini to the Broccoli Cheddar soup. Although this doesn’t mimic Panera’s menu, this fun take on Mac & Cheese tastes absolutely delicious! 
Contact Elizabeth Chaten at  echaten1@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I MARY CECILIA MITSCH 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 2, 2009 
NFL 
Favre, Vikings victorious in return to Lambeau 
Manning, Colts hold off 49ers to remain unbeaten; Reciever Jackson scores in Eagles’ rout of Giants 
coverage under pressure and
Associated Press 
Harvin came down with the ball 
GREEN BAY — Brett Favre still while Woodson, Atari Bigby and knows how to win big games at Nick Collins tumbled to the ground Lambeau Field, even if this one like extras in aslapstick comedy as came for the enemy and to acho-theVikingstooka24-3lead. rusofboos. ButRodgersansweredbydriving 
Forthesecondtimeinlessthana the Packers to three unanswered month, Brett Favre sliced up his scoresinthethirdquarter—afield former team and stuck it to the goalanda pair oftouchdownpass­franchisethatcasthimasideasthe es to tight endSpencer Havner ,a Minnesota Vikings beat the Green linebacker who switched positions BayPackers 38-26 atLambeau on intrainingcamp. Sunday. Harvinthenreturnedakickoff44 
If walking out to waves of loud yards, Favre hitHarvin for athird­jeers from his former fans threw down conversion, and a face mask Favre off his game, it didn’t last penalty on Green Bay’s B.J. Raji long. Despite being jeered repeat-gave the Vikings first-and-goal at edly by Packers fans who once the 9. Facing third down at the 2, cheered his every move, Favre Favre rolled right and threw to completed 17 of 28 passes for 244 wide open tight end Jeff Dugan to yards and four touchdowns. The put the Vikings up 31-20 early in Vikings (7-1) took afirm hold on thefourthquarter. theNFCNorthstandings. Rodgers wasn’t finished, scram­
‘‘But Packer fans cheer for the bling for 35 yards to set up a 10­Packers first,’ Favre said. ‘I know yard touchdown pass to Greg that. But Ihope that everyone in Jennings.Afterafailed2-pointcon­the stadium watching tonight said, versionattempt,thePackerstrailed ‘I sure hate those jokers on the 31-26with10:26remaining. other side, but he does play the Driving with achance to take the wayhe’salwaysplayed.’ lead, the Packers stalled out and 
Rookie receiver Percy Harvin Mason Crosby missed a 51-yard caughtfivepasses for84yardsand fieldgoalattempt. a touchdown and had five returns Peterson took a screen pass 44 for 175 yards, but didn’t mind yards down the left sideline to the yieldingthespotlighttoFavre. GreenBay15.WiththeVikingsfac­
‘‘He’s played this game along ingthird-and-11, Favre threaded a thefourthtimeinfiveyears. game. The 49ers are already with-big TD catch as the Philadelphia time, he sees alot of stuffthat alot ballthroughtheGreenBaysecond-ButthiswasnottypicalIndy. outrighttackleTonyPashosforthe Eagles took awin over amistake­ofquarterbacks can’t see,’ Harvin ary for atouchdown to Bernard While Manningfinished31 of48 restoftheseason. prone Eli Manning and the New said. ‘‘And he can make alot of Berrian. for347yards,hemissedhigh,wide Yet thanks to Smith’ssteadiness, YorkGiantsonSunday. throws that alot of quarterbacks andevenshort,failingtomatchthe Frank Gore ‘s long run and the ‘When you play these NFCEast can’t make. With us being explo-Colts 18, 49ers 14 incredible efficiency he had in continual contributions of Vernon teams, you prepare for a heavy­sive, to addhim was like ablessing Indianapolis’ 16th straight regu-Indy’s first six games. The three-Davis and Michael Crabtree ,the weight fight,’’Eagles coach Andy indisguise.’ lar-seasonvictorywillfitneatlyinto timeMVPalso failedtothrow aTD 49ers controlledthe game for most Reidsaid. 
The Vikings’ defense roughed up theColts’recordbook. passforthefirsttimesinceNov.30, ofthreequarters. The game was justthe appetizer Favre’s successor, Aaron Rodgers , Thisweek’sgametapeswillshow 2008, leavingthatjobto Addai, the Itwasgoodenough-almost. in amarathon day in the con­sackinghim six times. But withthe the Colts how imperfectthey really high schoolAll-American quarter-‘‘A couple dropped balls make tentious NY-Philadelphia rivalry. Packers (4-3) on the verge of get-are. back. the difference in a game like this,’ The Yankees and Phillies were set ting routed, Rodgers rebounded WithPeyton Manning out of sync It was Addai’s first TDpass as a 49ers coachMike Singletary said. for the first pitch ofGame 4of the withthreesecond-halftouchdowns. and the offense struggling to score pro and the first by aColts non-‘‘Any missed opportunities in a WorldSeries across the street only 
Rodgerssaidlosingthegametoa touchdowns Sunday, the Colts quarterback since Ken Dilger game like this are goingto bite you hoursaftertheEagles’routended. division rival meant more than turned to aformer quarterback — threw one in 2001. The result was intheend.The onlythingI cansay The Eagles (5-2) remained unde­beingbeatenbyFavre. JosephAddai —for a22-yardTD perfect: Wayne lunging toward the is we came here to win the football feated in the division and host 
‘‘I hate losing to whoever’s the passthatgaveIndyavictoryandits endline, getting both feet on the game.’ Dallas next week. Philly continued quarterback for them,’’ Rodgers own version of a perfect regular ground to give Indy its first lead 7 The Colts’ defense had to keep its victorious run over NFC East said. season. secondsintothefourthquarter. Indy in the game after allowing teams a week after beating 
ButcornerbackCharlesWoodson ‘‘We need these games if we’re Wayne had acareer-high 12 Gore to slip through the middle, Washington. acknowledgedthegamewassignif-going to push toward our goal, catchesfor147yards. break two tackles and sprint 64 However, McNabb knows the icantbeyondthedivisionstandings. whichis the Super Bowl,’ receiver ‘I was just trying to get the ball yards for a score on San NFCEastraceisn’toveryet. 
‘‘I think alot of people really ReggieWaynesaid. ‘We’regoingto outthere,’ Addai said. ‘In practice, Francisco’s second series. It was ‘‘The challenges are everyone wanted this one bad,’’ Woodson need these close games, we’re I’m just kind of spotting up there, the first TD Indy allowed since has a big head and bouncing said. ‘We let alot ofpeople down goingto needto fightthrough alit-kind oflooking, reading mykeys. I Week4. Gore finished with13 car-around like it’s going to happen today.’ tle adversity andpushforward. We don’t reallyhave akeyto read, but ries for 91 yards and five recep-everyweek,’McNabbsaid. 
The Packers recognize that their were able to do thattoday. It was a Ikind of sit back there like areal tionsfor43yards. The Eagles dominated without chances of winningthe division are grinder. We figured out away to quarterback.’ running back Brian Westbrook , fading, but are looking forward to win.’ For San Francisco (3-4), it was Eagles 40, Giants 17 whosatoutafterhesufferedacon­the possibility offacing their rivals Clearly, there’splenty of work to anotherfrustratingday. The Eagles were in the rarest of cussion in the win over the againintheplayoffs. do afterSunday’s sluggishoffensive The 49ers have now lost three positionsonafootballSunday.They Redskins. His absence causedReid 
‘‘Hopefully, we’ll have another performance —despite all the straightdespite getting asolidper-served as the opening act of aNew toaddanewwrinkletotheoffense: crack at these guys down the accolades. formance from Alex Smith in his York-Philly twinbill instead of kick-a fullback. Rarely asked to carry road,’’ Packers coach Mike Jim Caldwell became the first first start in nearly two years. ingoffasthemainevent. the ball under Reid, Leonard McCarthysaid. rookie coach since the 1970 merg-Smith was 19 of 32 for 198 yards Donovan McNabb and DeSean Weaver was an integral part early 
Alreadyleading17-3 athalftime, ertowinhisfirstsevenNFLgames. with one TD and one interception. Jackson still put on adynamic and helped catch the scuffling Favre temporarily reverted from Indy extendedits franchise record He was sackedfour times behind a show and the first round of the Giantsbysurprise. game manager to gunslinger on and became the eighth team in makeshift offensive line that may doubleheader was scored in favor The Eagles needed only three the Vikings’ first possession of the league history with 16 straight havesustainedanotherdevastating oftheEaglesbybrutalknockout. playstoscorewhenWeaverran41 second half — and even that wins. The Colts are now the last blow when left tackle Joe Staley McNabb threw three touchdown yards up the middle for a touch-worked. Favre threw into triple undefeated team in the AFC again, went down on the first play of the passes and Jackson had another down. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Looking for a quiet place to relax 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? after the game? Charming rental OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 Do no go it alone. Notre Dame hasFOR RENT unit for 2-4, beautiful view, free MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. FOR SALE many resources in place to assist WANTED 
canoe and kayaks with direct $1200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL you. If you or someone you love Irish Crossing and Dublin Village 3 access to St. Joe River. Adults only, GEORGIA PEACH BED AND FORD 79 T-Bird. 45 K miles. needs confidential support or assis-PART TIME WORK $14.25 base and 4 bdr, furnished and no smoking, no pets. See pictures BREAKFAST Original owner. $8000 tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at appt., no experience needed, cus­unfurnished. January and June on www.TheRiverGetaway.org or @ 269-357-6979 574-299-0925 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835 2010 leases available. call 269-815-3000. more information, visit NDs website www.cespm.info Great to stay for Notre Dame ——————————————— at http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Call 574-968-0112 events. ———————————————
PERSONAL FOR RENT 
——————————————— Home for ND football weekends. 1 If you or someone else you care ——————————————— 2 BDRM APT. CLOSE TO ND. mile N of campus. Reasonable. about has been sexually assaulted, UTILITIES NOT INCLUDED. CALL 574-360-0588 or Happy Anniversary Melissa we can help. For more information, HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES 313-382-0536 OR 574-386-3896 www.gamedayhousing.com. F.A.E. visit Notre Dame’s website at pay top $$. 54684 TWYCKENHAM http://csap.nd.edu 574-251-1570 ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, November 2, 2009 page 13 
NCAA Football Coaches Poll Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas 3 3 Alabama 2 4 TCU 6 5 Boise State 5 6 Iowa 8 7 Cincinnati 7 8 Oregon 12 9 LSU 9 10 Penn State 10 11 Georgia Tech 11 12 Ohio State 15 13 Southern California 4 14 Pittsburgh 17 15 Houston 16 16 Utah 19 17 Miami (Fla.) 18 18 Oklahoma State 13 19 Arizona 24 20 Oklahoma 23 21 NOTRE DAME 25 22 Wisconsin NR 23 California NR 24 Virginia Tech 14 25 BYU NR 
NCAA Football AP Poll Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas 3 3 Alabama 2 4 Cincinnati 5 5 Boise State 6 6 TCU 7 7 Oregon 10 8 Iowa 7 9 LSU 9 10 Georgia Tech 11 11 Penn State 12 12 Southern California 4 13 Houston 15 14 Pittsburgh 16 15 Ohio State 17 16 Miami (Fla.) 18 17 Utah 19 18 Oklahoma State 13 19 NOTRE DAME 25 20 Oklahoma 22 21 Arizona 23 22 Virginia Tech 14 23 California NR 24 Wisconsin NR 25 BYU NR 


aroundthe dial 
MLB World Series 
New York at Philadelphia 
7:30 p.m., FOX 
NFL 
Atlanta at New Orleans 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 

Struggling Browns lose to Bears, 30-6 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Pounded the previousweekandlosersoftwo straight, the Chicago Bears couldn’t afford to go down again.Goodthingforthemthat Derek Anderson and the Cleveland Browns were in town. 
Jay Cutler threw for 225 yards, Matt Forte ran for two touchdownsandtheBears(4-3) beatthebumblingBrowns30-6 Sunday. 
Andersonhadanothermiser­able day for the Browns (1-7) and was liftedforBradyQuinn, themanhereplacedinWeek3, withaboutthreeminutesleftin the game. Anderson completed just6 of17passes for 76yards andgotinterceptedtwice. 
That certainly didn’t help a rating that was already a league-low 40.6 entering this game. And now, the Browns appear to be back in afamiliar spot: Deciding on a starting quarterback. 
The Bears paid tribute to WalterPaytonathalftimeonthe 10th anniversary of his death, then delivered a performance thatwasfarfromsweet. 
Chicagostruggledtocomplete drives early on, settlingfor field goalsinsteadoftouchdownsbut didjustenoughtoputawaythe team with the league’s worst defense and second-worst offense. That won’t settle the nerves of fans who were more thanantsyaftera45-10thump­ing the previous week at Cincinnati. 
Cutlerwason the run allday and got sacked a season-high fourtimesdespiteashakeupon thelineinwhichJoshBeekman replaced Frank Omiyale as the starting left guard. A late hit from Kamerion Wimbley on a thirddown in the secondquar­ter left him with a bloody mouth, and he got leveled by Shaun Rogers on a 31-yard pass to Johnny Knox in the third. Both plays led to touch­down runs by Matt Forte, who finished with 90 yards on 26 carries. 
The Bears got a scare when DevinHesterlimpedoffthefield aftermaking acatchlate in the fourth quarter. He came back for a punt return and finished with seven receptions for 81 yards. 
After giving up aseason-high 448 yards and touchdowns on thefirstfourpossessionsagainst the Bengals and old friend Cedric Benson, the Bears held Cleveland to 191. The Browns didn’t score until Anderson ran it in from the 1 early in the third, making it 16-6, and the Bearspulledawayfromthere. 
They might have broken it open earlier if not for some missedopportunities. 
Robbie Gouldgave them a3­0lead with a37-yardfieldgoal with2:20leftinthefirstquarter, andtheBears immediatelyhad a big opportunity when a DaniealManninglungedtopick off a deep pass intended for Mohamed Massaquoi. He returnedtheball35yardstothe Cleveland 13, but instead of a touchdown, Chicago hadto set­tle for a 29-yarder from Gould thatmadeit6-0with1:13leftin thequarter. 
IN BRIEF 
2009 World Series has most viewers in last five years 
PHILADELPHIA — World Series tele­vision ratings are attheir highestlevels in five years. 
The New York Yankees’ 8-5 win over Philadelphia on Saturday night in Game 3 received a 9.1 rating and 18 share, Fox saidSunday. 
It was up 49 percent from the 6.1/13 for the Phillies’ 5-4 victory over Tampa Bay in Game 3 last year, which also was delayed by rain. This was the most-watched Saturday Series game since the Chicago White Sox beat Houston 5-3in the 2005 opener. 
The three-game average of 10.9/19 is up 42 percent from the 7.7/14 for the opening three games last year and the highestthree-game average since a 15.0/25 for the Boston-St. Louis matchupin 2004. 
The rating is the percentage of tele­vision households tuned to a program. The share is the percentage of homes watching amongthose withTVs on. 
Wade and Haslem help Miami beat Chicago, 95-87 
MIAMI — Dwyane Wade scored 25 points to push his career total to 10,005, reserve Udonis Haslem had19points and 11 rebounds, and the Miami Heat stayed unbeaten by downing the Chicago Bulls 95-87onSundaynight. 
Carlos Arroyo scored 12 points, Mario Chalmers added 11 and Michael Beasley overcamea3-of-12shootingnighttofinish with10pointsand11reboundsforMiami (3-0), which took the lead for good on a jumperbyWadewith3:01remaining. 
Luol Deng scored 26 points for Chicago (1-2), which got 17 points from John Salmons,11fromBradMillerand10from Joakim Noah. Derrick Rose shot 4 of 15 andfinishedwitheightpointsfortheBulls. 
Haslem’s basket with 47.4 seconds left, off a pass from Wade, essentially sealedit for Miami, which survived a wild fourth quarter. The teams alternated the lead seventimesinthefinal12minutes,before Chicago missed its final six shots over the last3:53. 
Serena defeats Venus in Sony Ericsson Championships 
DOHA, Qatar —Serena Williams bested big sister Venus again Sunday, winning6-2, 7-6 (4) in the season-ending Sony Ericsson Championshipsfinal. 
Serenabroketwiceinthefirstsetandlost justsevenpointsonserveinherlastmatchof the year. She looked sharper than Venus in everyfacetofamatchthatfeaturedfewlong ralliesandlittleofthespectaculartennisthe twohaveprovidedinsomeoftheirprevious meetings. 
Serenasealedthematchwithacrosscourt forehandwinner,andcelebratedcalmlywith asimplefistpumpbeforehugginghersister atthenet. 
“Itfeelsgreat,”saidSerena,whoalsowon theWTATour’sseason-endingeventin2001. “Itotallydidn’texpecttocomehereandwin.” 
ItwasSerena’sfourthstraightwinoverher sister.ShealsobeatVenusintheround-robin stage of the Doha tournament, the WimbledonfinalandthesemifinalsinMiami this year. She leads their head-to-head record 13-10. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 2, 2009 
NFL 
Titans end losing skid with victory over Jags 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Tennessee owner Bud Adams isn’t taking credit for the decision to start Vince Young and bench Kerry Collins , even if the move helped snap the Titans’ winless skid. 
The owner is giving Young a high grade for his first start since the 2008 season opener. 
‘‘He looked all right out there,’’ Adams said. ‘‘I think he’s coming around a lot. I think there’s some things that happened to him early in his career that didn’t let him concentrate on football. I think he realized he needed to work at it hard. And he has shown that.’’ 
Young threw for a touch­down, Chris Johnson set a franchise record by rushing for 228 yards, and the Titans won their first game of the season by routing the Jacksonville Jaguars 30-13 Sunday. 
The NFL said it was the only game in league history with four touchdowns rush­ing of 50 yards or longer. 
Johnson scored on runs of 52 and 89 yards and Jacksonville’s Maurice Jones-Drew scored from 80 and 79 yards out. 
The Titans (1-6) had been the only winless team left in the NFL along with Tampa Bay, which had an off week, and Tennessee’s skid of eight straight went back to the end of last season. 
‘‘It’s just one week at a time now we got the first win,’’ Fisher said. ‘‘Unfortunately, it took us a little bit too long. Now we’re going to take it and just move on.’’ 
That skid is why Adams wanted Young to start, espe­cially since Tennessee needs to see if he’ll be worth keep­ing around with a $4.25 mil­lion roster bonus due in March. 
Johnson helped Young with the highest rushing total in the NFL since Adrian Peterson had 296 against San Diego in November 2007. The Titans also eased Young in with lots of short throws and runs to work off any rust. It worked as Young was 15 of 18 for 125 yards, and ran 10 times for 32 yards not counting two final kneel downs. 
‘‘The year off has helped me a whole lot,’’ said Young, who got a big hug from offensive coordinator Mike Heimerdinger as the final seconds ticked off. 
Jacksonville (3-4) now has lost two of three. Jones-Drew provided the only highlights, running for 177 yards and taking the NFL lead with 10 touchdowns rushing. But the Jaguars only gave him eight carries. 
David Garrard shredded Tennessee for 323 yards when the Jaguars routed the Titans 37-17 on Oct. 4. They never let him get started this time, sacking him four times, intercepting him twice and hitting him repeatedly. The Titans held the ball for more than 39 minutes and out-gained the Jaguars 430-330. 
Jaguars coach Jack Del Rio took the blame. Garrard dis­agreed. 
‘‘We appreciate Jack saying that, but we have to do bet­ter as players executing the game plan. Everybody has to get better, period,’’ Garrard said. 
Tennessee couldn’t have opened the game with a much better script. 
The change to Young was made to try sparking an offense that had been outscored 127-26 over the past three games and hadn’t scored a touchdown since that visit to Jacksonville. 
All eyes were on Young, the No. 3 overall pick in 2006 and that season’s Offensive Rookie of the Year. 
He got a bit lucky when Jaguars cornerback Derek Cox dropped a would-be interception in the end zone on the opening drive. But he made plenty of nice throws, including his 6-yarder to Nate Washington at 9:19 of the second quarter that ended Tennessee’s TD drought at nine quarters. 
He also kept the go-ahead TD drive alive when he backpedaled away from pressure, then found Kenny Britt on the sideline with a good pass for a 7-yard com­pletion on third-and-6. 
‘‘That throw ... was classic Vince,’’ Fisher said. ‘‘I said all along he stayed focused. He’s been preparing himself. This game, He had fun tonight, and it was good to see. 
With Jones-Drew ripping off runs, it looked as if the Jaguars could keep pace with Tennessee as the Titans settled for three field goals from Rob Bironas . Jones­Drew’s second TD run tied it at 13 just 23 seconds into the third quarter, but Michael Griffin blocked Josh Scobee ‘s extra point attempt to keep Jacksonville from tak­ing the lead. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles finish fourth in MIAA 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
For the second time this season, the Belles seemed a footstep behind their goal in an MIAA tournament. 
Saint Mary’s finished fourth in the MIAA Championship for the third consecutive season, equaling the program’s highest con­ference ranking. No. 1 Calvin took first place in the MIAA for the 21st time in 22 years with a perfect team score of 15. 
“I am so proud of every­thing the team has accom­plished and how hard they have worked to get there,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. “I’m excited to see how they do at regionals.” 
Belles freshman Julia Kenney lead the team with a 
24:47.1 to finish 24th over­all, but the story of the day for Saint Mary’s was senior captain Megan McClowry’s unexpected stumble. McClowry, who has finished first or second for the Belles in each tournament this sea­son, slipped to third on the squad with a 25:34.0 after a fall cost her valuable time and position. 
The fact that Saint Mary’s trailed third-place Adrian by only eight points made McClowry’s stumble loom all the larger. In addition, the Belles competed without jun­ior Catie Salyer, who missed the meet due to sickness. 
“It was disappointing to be so close to third and not beat Adrian,” Bauters said. “The team ran well. People really stepped up, [but] I know [the fall] was difficult for [McClowry] as a senior cap­tain.” 
The Bulldogs finished third with a team score of 112, ahead of Saint Mary’s 120 and behind the Knights and Hope. Adrian’s narrow victo­ry is all the more remarkable when considering that the team did not have an upper­classman at the meet. 
While the Belles’ fourth-place finish tied the program high, Saint Mary’s had made beating the Bulldogs a prior­ity, and to lose so narrowly made the result particularly stinging. 
“It’s bittersweet,” Bauters said. “I think it’s great that the team has stayed at fourth while the other teams around us have fluctuated so much. I think we are consis­tent and have been able to develop a strong team. Adrian is at a great advan­tage over us with indoor and outdoor track as well as full time coaches which make recruiting easier.” 
Behind Kenney, sophomore Joanne Almond finished 36th overall with a time of 
25:23.9. McClowry finished 39th overall, while junior Claire McVey ended up in 43rd, finishing the course in 
25:54.4 Rounding out the scoring harriers for the Belles was junior Samantha Wieczorek in 25:59.0, good enough for 45th overall. 
Saint Mary’s will have a week off to prepare for the NCAA Division III Regionals on Nov. 14 in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


Monday, November 2, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish place sixth at Big East meet 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
TheIrishcrosscountryteamsran steadily with their expectations and each finished in sixth place at Saturday’sBigEastconferencemeet in Kenosha, Wisc. as they competed against some of the best runners andbestteamsinthenation. 
“Our results this weekend mean that we needto compete really well asateamattheregionalmeet,”sen­iorLindseyFergusonsaid. 
An already particularly difficult and hilly course, the Wayne E. Dannehl cross country course had been negatively affected by recent weather, which made Saturday’s conference meet even more chal­lenging for the Irish and the other BigEastcompetitors. 
“There was a lot of rain in the days preceding the race, so there wasalotofmudandstandingwater to battle through during the race,” sophomore Rachel Velarde said. 
“Theconditionswerenotidealbutit feltliketruecrosscountryracing.” 
The BigEasthas six teams in the NCAA top 30 in the women’s divi­sion with Notre Dame finishing the rankings in the 30th spot. Villanova, West Virginia, Georgetown, Syracuse, and Providence each scoredbetterthan NotreDameas a team. 
Inthemen’sdivision,fivenational­ly ranked teams, Syracuse, Georgetown, Villanova, Louisville and Providence each beat out the NotreDamemen’steamSaturday. 
For the women, Ferguson improved on her placement from lastyear andfinishedfirst for Notre Dame and 10th overall with a time of 21:40. Freshman Jessica Rydberg, 22:24, senior Beth Tacl, 22:28, junior Erica Watson, 22:40, Velarde, 22:40, freshman Rebecca Tracy, 22:50 and junior Marissa Treece, 22:53 each finished in the top50aswell. 
In the men’s division, senior Jake Walker ran the course in 25:57 and was the first from Notre Dame to crossthefinishlineand28thoverall. He was closely followed by junior Dan Jackson, 25:58, junior Ryan Jacobs, 26:08, sophomore Johnathan Shawel, 26:17, sopho­more Joe Miller, 26:42, junior Paul Springer, 26:59, and sophomore Jordan Carlson, 26:59 who each placedinthetop50finishers. 
The teams were looking to not only measure themselves against tough competition at the Big East championship, but also to scale themselvesagainsttheothernation­ally ranked competitors they will race against atthe upcomingNCAA regionalandnationalmeets. 
“After this weekend and pre­nationals, we have a good idea about what the competition at nationals will look like,” Ferguson said.“Wewillbeabletopreparefor regionals and nationals better becauseofit.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING 
Saint Mary’s drops first meet of season 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s opened up its season on the wrong foot, losing 180-107 to con­ference foe Kalamazoo. 
Wabash College also com­peted in the meet, swim­ming against the men’s team of Kalamazoo. 
The Belles were led by freshmen Ellie Watson and Katie Griffin and sopho­more Audrey Dalrymple, each of who took first in two separate events. Watson took the 1000-yard and 500-yard freestyle events and Griffin claimed the 100-yard backstroke and the 100-yard butterfly. Finally, Dalrymple took the 200-yard breaststroke and the 200-yard Individual Medley. Dalrymple also contributed with a second place finish in the 100-yard breaststroke. 
Other contributors included freshman Caila Poythress with a second place finish in the 200-yard backstroke, freshman Anna Vandecaveye in third in the 100-yard freestyle, and senior Meredith Lierz with third in the 50-yard freestyle. 
Both A-team relays also finished second to bolster the Belles’ point totals. The loss was a step back from last year’s result where the defeat was only by a 10­point margin. 
The Belles will now have a two-week break before they enter the water for their next competition. They will travel to West Lafayette, Ind., where they will swim against Carthage College at Purdue University. 
The Belles have not faced Carthage in three years, when they lost 121-79 back in 2006. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall thrice to continue streak 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s ended the regu­lar season with three lopsided losses this weekend, contribut­ing to a seven-game losing streak. 
The Belles (9-16, 5-11 MIAA) played Friday against a scrap­py Kalamazoo team. The Hornets were a good match for the Belles but eventually took the match 3-1. Sophomore out­side hitter Lindsey Stuss led the way with 12 kills and jun­iors Meghann Rose and Ellen Huelsmann anchored the defense with 24 and 21 digs, respectively. Senior captain Lorna Slupczynski added nine kills, which put her over the 300-kill markthis season. 
The Belles then traveled to Angola, Mich. to take on the final conference opponent on the schedule, No. 13 Calvin College, and a season-ending non-league matchup with Hanover College Saturday. The Belles were not up for the challenge, however, dropping both matches 3-0. 
The Knights dominated the entire match, taking the sec­ond set by an astounding 25-4 score. With very little to high­light in the stat book, Slupczysnki had the best num­bers on offense with six kills, followed by sophomore setter Danie Brink’s 16 assists. 
The Belles played better in the second match of the day, but were still only able to get within four points of taking a set. 
With the regular season offi­cially over, the Belles must put the losses in the past and turn it around quickly before the first round ofthe MIAAtourna­ment on Tuesday. 
“We are facing a very strong team this next Tuesday,” Kuschel said. “We will hopeful­ly have one of our starting middle hitters Andrea Sasgen back this Tuesday night which will not only help offensively but defensively as well.” 
The Belles are 9-10 with Sasgen in the lineup and 0-6 without her. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 2, 2009 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish dominate in tenth Big East win 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s unbeaten confer­ence record was never a source of concern as the Irish rolled over Seton Hall and Rutgers en route to a weekend sweep inthenewly ren­ovatedPurcellPavilion. 
Notre Dame (16-4,10-0BigEast) isthelastteamintheBigEastwith­out aloss, andis offto its best start since 2005whenthe Irish went19­1 through the first 20 matches of the season. Head coach Debbie Brown attributes the source of the team’s success to a number of fac­torsoutsidethelines. 
“We’ve been able to use a lot of differentlineups,getalotofexperi­ence,” Brown said. “We know that wehaveareallygoodstart,andare pretty motivated in terms of win­ning the conference and putting ourselves in a good position for the NCAATournament.” 
The Irish came into the matchup with Seton Hall (10-16, 4-6) unde­feated in 14 tries against the Pirates, and Saturday’s outcome proved to be no different. Led by a sensational effort from sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy, who tallied16killsand18digs,theIrish cruised to a 25-18, 25-19, 22-25, 25-18victory. 
“When we’ve needed different peopletostepuptheyhave,”Brown said. “The interestingthingis thatI don’t know if we’ve had a match where everyone just played at the topoftheirgame.Ithinkwhenthat happens it’s going to be a really goodthingforus.” 
As the Irish prepare for postsea­son action, the offense seems to havefounditsstrideatjusttheright time.ComingintoplayonSaturday, the Irish ranked 21st nationally witha.263teamhittingpercentage and 20th overall with a 14.11 kills/set average. Those numbers improved to .268 and 14.2 respec­tivelyfollowingthesweep. 
“I think our group of outside hit­ters has been really good,” Brown said. “I think [senior setter] Jamel [Nicholas]has alot of confidence in themintermsoftheiroffensivepro­duction, and I think we’re getting better and better with the middle which is just making the offense so balanced,andit’sreallyhardtostop us.” 
The Irish offense continued its dominance on Sunday as Notre Dame defeated Rutgers in straight sets (25-16, 25-20, 25-23) to improveto17-0all-timeagainstthe Scarlet Knights (9-16, 2-8). Senior outside hitter Christina Kaelin con­tributed 10 kills, while freshman middleblockerHilaryEppinkadded 4killsand4blocksinlimitedaction. 
Despitethepressureandrecogni­tion that come with an undefeated conference record, the Irish have silenced any opponents hoping to catchtheIrishoffguard. 
“We’ve had good practices, the preparation has been good, and I think withthat experience theyjust understand that you can’t look all thewaydowntheroad,youhaveto take it a match at a time,” Brown said. “We realize being the only team in the conference that’sunde­feated that teams are going to be really fired up to play us and play their best volleyball against us, and that’s okay, it just makes us that muchbetter.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish celebrate Rolfs with dual meet win 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
In a meet to celebrate the 25th anniversary of varsity competition in the Rolfs Aquatic Center, the Irish picked uptwo victories in the double dual meet, defeating Cleveland State 178-122 and Miami (Ohio) 232.50­67.50. 
“The scoreboard was very kind to us,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “It wasalotkindertousthatIthoughtit would be. That’s always a good thing.” 
The Irish showed time improve­ment in many events, including the freestyle and breaststroke events on theirwaytothetwovictories. 
“Ithoughtwedidgetfaster,”Welsh said.“Ithoughtthatoursplitfreestyles showed quite a bit of depth. I just thoughtthat we gotfaster across the program,andthatwasagoodthing.” 
Senior John Lytle and freshman Kevin Overholtfinishedfirst and sec­ond in the 200-meter freestyle. Lytle also recorded a victory in the 100­meter freestyle, and the two helped the400-meterfreestylerelaytoafirst placefinishwaswell. 
“(Lytle) was named Big East Swimmer of the Week last week,” Welshsaid.“Thisboyisonaroll.He’s doingagreatjob.” 
The Irish were helped by their diversaswell,receivingfirstplacefin­ishesinboththeone-meterdive,from senior Caleb Dunnichay, and in the three-meter dive, from junior Wesley Villaflor. 
“Iwouldcallthetwodivingvictories an upset, andfor (Villaflor), that’shis first collegiate win, so that’s a huge improvement,” Welsh said. “The divers are always important. If you takethedivingpointsoutof(thescor­ing), that’savery close meet(against ClevelandState).” 
Notre Dame turned in four other first place victories, including top fin­ishesbysophomorePetarPetrovichin the100-meterbackstrokeandbythe 200-metermedleyrelayteam.Senior MacKenzie LeBlanc and junior Michael Sullivan were also victorious in the 200-meter butterfly and the 200-meterbackstroke,respectively. 
“What we needto learn and what we have to look at more carefully is whatthefastestwayforustolineup throughouttheprogram,”Welshsaid. “Ithinkwewentalongwaytowards doingthatthisweekend.” 
The Irish will now go on the road for the first time when the face Purdue University in a dual meet on Nov. 6. The Boilermakers have not lostsofarthisseason,finishinginfirst place in the Indiana Intercollegiate, and then defeating Miami (Ohio) in theirfirstdualmeetoftheseason. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
NFL 
Slaton benched in Texans’ victory 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y — If Texans running back Steve Slaton’s latest turnover means he’s fumbled away his starting job in Houston, Ryan Moats is certainly ready to step in. 
In a game where the Texans lost star tight end Owen Daniels to what’s feared to be a severe knee injury, Slaton was sent to the bench after losing his fifth fumble of the season. But Moats took control, becoming the first player in franchise history to score three touch­downs in one game in a 31­10 win over the Buffalo Bills on Sunday. 
‘‘I wasn’t thinking about that,’’ Moats said, referring to setting personal and team records. ‘‘I was thinking about the time that I would get and try to do the best that I could.’’ 
Thanks to Moats, a six-year career backup, the Texans (5-3) won their third straight, second in a row on the road, and are off to the best start in team history. 
Moats finished with 126 yards rushing and another 25 yards receiving, and more important, went without a turnover in scoring touch­downs on three straight fourth-quarter possessions. 
He got in the game after Slaton lost a fumble on the Texans’ third drive as part of a three-turnover first half. 
Coach Gary Kubiak would-n’t say whether Slaton lost his job, and was more con­cerned about Daniels, who didn’t return after hurting his right knee. Kubiak said ‘‘It doesn’t look good.’’ 
Walking on crutches, Daniels acknowledged he’s afraid the injury could be season ending. 
What also mattered to Kubiak was how his young team bounced back. 
‘‘Through adversity, teams get stronger or they can go the other way,’’ Kubiak said. ‘‘This tells you about the character of the group. They didn’t make excuses.’’ 
Who needs excuses when the Texans took advantage of another offensively inept per­formance by the Bills (3-5), who produced a meager 204 yards offense and nine first downs, three in the second half? 
‘‘I think we have to take it personal,’’ said Terrell Owens, who had five catches for 39 yards, and scored on a 29-yard run. ‘‘We’re just not getting it done offensively. That’s pretty much the key thing. ... Everyone’s not pleased with the way we played.’’ 
The Bills enter their bye week much like they began the season, attempting to address an offense that’s fal­tered behind an inexperi­enced line and is getting no consistency at quarterback. Ryan Fitzpatrick, making his second start in place of Trent Edwards (concussion), went 15 of 23 for 117 yards and two interceptions. 
The offensive struggles spoiled a solid first-half per­formance by a defense led by rookie safety Jairus Byrd ‘s two interceptions. The sec­ond-round pick out of Oregon became the first player since San Francisco’s Dave Baker in 1960 to have two or more interceptions in three straight games. 
‘‘We have to take advan­tage of every opportunity that we get, and we’re not doing that,’’ Bills running back Fred Jackson said. ‘‘Something has to change because as an offensive unit, we’ve got to do better.’’ 
Texans linebacker DeMeco Ryans joked about how sim­ple it was to contain Buffalo’s popgun attack. 
‘‘It was easy,’’ Ryans said. ‘‘They kind of had the same formations, they didn’t give us a lot of motions and things. So it was a simple offense to go against.’’ 
Ryans then joked about how good it was sipping Gatorade on the sideline watching the offense take over. 
After settling for Kris Brown’s three field goals, including a 42-yarder, to cut Buffalo’s lead to 10-9 midway through the third quarter, the Texans took control to start the fourth. 
Houston went ahead 17-10 in the first minute of the period when Moats scored on an 11-yard run to cap a 10­play, 72-yard drive. Quarterback Matt Schaub then hit Andre Johnson for a 2-point conversion. 
The Texans scored on their next possession after they weren’t fooled by the Bills’ fake punt on a fourth-and-2 at the Buffalo 40. Moats scored on a 1-yard plunge and then scored again on a 3-yard run with 3:34 left. 

Monday, November 2, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Kubinski said. “For him to get “I’m happy to see the three Dame then destroyed compete with any team,” a win and two halves with a sophomores really step up Connecticut 5.5-.5, led by two Kubinski said. “When we’re 
Match 
continued from page 20 
tournament, was the only Irish player to win outright against Louisville. 
He defeated Chris Biuso 2 and 1 after tying his other two matches in “The Match Play.” 
“Josh played with what we think is H1N1, but he at least had flu-like symptoms,” 103 temperature was a Herculean effort by him.” 
Sophomore Tom Usher, who played in his first match of the season after recovering from off-season surgery, had the best record for the Irish, finishing with two wins and a tie over the weekend. Two other sophomores, Max Scodro and Chris Walker, also had winning records for the Irish. 
and showing that they can contend with all the best play­ers in the country,” Kubinski said. “The sophomores all had winning records, and I was really proud of them.” 
The Irish defeated Georgetown in the quarterfi­nals, tying in the six matches but winning the tiebreaker to advance. Usher and senior Doug Fortner won outright against the Hoyas. Notre stroke victories from Fortner and senior Carl Santos-Ocampo. 
“The Match Play” was the final match of the fall season for the Irish, who finished 36­34, a record which places them in contention for the NCAA tournament. After a winter break, the Irish will resume play Feb. 6 in Scottsdale, Ariz. 
“When we play well, we can not doing the things we’re supposed to be doing in terms of playing Notre Dame golf with the focus and the confi­dence and the preparation, we can slip up and that’s what we have to watch out for. I’m happy that when we play well, we can play with anyone.” 


Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
MLB 
New York scores three off Lidge to get win 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Alex Rodriguez waited all game long for this hit. Heck, he waited his wholelife. 
Rodriguez delivered the biggest hit of his career, a go-ahead, two-out double in the ninth inning off Brad Lidge and the New York Yankees took advantage of Johnny Damon ‘s daring dash to beat the Philadelphia Phillies 7-4 on Sunday night for a 3-1 lead in theWorldSeries. 
Derek Jeter came through again and Mariano Rivera fin­ished it off as the Yankees moved within one win of that elusive 27th championship andfirst since 2000. 
Rodriguez could really savor this victory — seething after again being hit by a pitch, he struck back with his potent black bat. 
‘’There’s no question — I’ve never had a bigger hit,’’ Rodriguezsaid. 
The Yankees will try to close out the defending champions Monday night when A.J. Burnett facesOctoberaceCliffLee. 
Of the 42 teams to take a 3-1 lead in the World Series, 36 went on to win the crown. The last club to overcome such a deficit wasKansasCityin1985. 
Chase Utley and Pedro Feliz hit year, he had struggled all season before regaining his touch this October. 
But November was not so kind tohim. 
Lidge had been the only closer in the playoffs who hadn’t allowed a run until the Yankees tagged him. With two outs, Damon capped a nine-pitch at-bat with a single. The Phillies overshifted their infield to the right side for Mark Teixeira and Damontookoff. 
Damon beat the one-hop throw to steal second, popped up from his slide and noticed no one was covering third. That’s because Feliz had handled the throw, and Damon easilybeatthe thirdbase­man to the bag for a rare double-steal — fact is, who’d ever seen it? 
Rattled or whatever, Lidge hit Teixeira with a pitch. So up stepped Rodriguez, 1 for 13 to thatpointin his first World Series and looking nothing like the feared slugger he was earlier in these playoffs. 
Putting all his prominent fail­ures behind, Rodriguez lined a soliddouble into the left-field cor­ner for a5-4lead. The three-time AL MVP connected so solidly, the sound echoedthroughoutCitizens Bank Park. Maybe it wasn’t such a surprise — Rodriguez had homered and doubled in three priorat-batsagainstLidge. 
‘’I get a good pitch and put a good swing on it, good things usually happen,’’ Rodriguez said. ‘’Facing Brad Lidge, he’s a great competitor. He’s had a lot of suc­cess late here. Just trying to makecontactthere.’’ 
Rodriguez stood at second with his 15th RBI, tying the Yankees postseason record shared by Bernie Williams and Scott Brosius. A-Rod’s other hit this week came in Game 3 when his double was changed to a home run after an instant replay review. 
The crowd was silent when Jorge Posada followed with a two-run single. Then it was Rivera’s turn and he quickly got three outs for his 11th World Seriessave. 
Chamberlain was the winner in hissecondSeriesappearance. 
Justlike that, the Yankees were 27 outs from their record 27th title and the Phillies were on the brink of getting eliminated. Philadelphia faces a daunting task;NewYorklostthreeina row only twice after the All-Star break. 
‘’I think we take a lot of pride on being resilient andthe way we bounce back,’’ Phils manager Charlie Manuel said. ‘’I’ve seen us go through it before. We’ve 
blown 22games from the seventh inning on or something this year. That’s got to tell you something abouttheresilienceofourteam.’’ 
page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 2, 2009 
impressive is that we got 
some other players in that 
Bulls 
don’t normally play and we continued from page 20 were still able to stay strong 
defensively.” when junior defender Julie After Fowlkes netted her Scheidler’s cross into the 18-eighth goal of the season in yard box found Henderson, the 34th minute to expand the who calmly settled the ball Irish lead to four, Waldrum and drilled a low shot into the brought a number of players back of the net. off the bench to Just five min-give his starters utes later, some well­
“[Our defensive
Henderson deserved rest. 
effort] was pretty
found herself on “It’s always the receiving phenomenal.” very important end of another this time of the cross, this time year [to rest 
Randy Waldrum 
from junior some of our 
Irish coach
Lauren Fowlkes, 
sending a strong volley past a helpless Bulls keeper. The reigning Big East Rookie of the Year completed the hat-trick on an unassisted effort in the 29th minute. 
Not only were the Irish at the top of their game on the offensive end, but also com­pletely smothered the Bulls on the defensive end. Notre Dame conceded just four shots on goal the entire game, none of which were on frame. 
“[Our defensive effort] was pretty phenomenal,” Waldrum said. “When you can go 90 minutes and keep them off the board, that’s an outstand­ing effort. What was more Josh Ford made a brilliant save. Senior midfielder 
Dike 
Michael Thomas collected the continued from page 20 rebound and smacked the ball 
low and hard right past the us; we really needed that win,” goalie into the back of the net. Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “We work at least two or “We’re a good team, and this three times every week on set team is capable of playing with pieces,” Clark said. “That was anyone in the country. We a nice corner and it was good know that, but now we have to to get something out of it.” do it consistently.” The first half ended knotted 
Connecticut got ahead of the up at 1-1, with the Irish hold-Irish early when what ing the shot advantage 7 to 1. appeared to be a Husky senior The Irish finished the game 
midfielder Mike  with  a  13-7  
Pezza cross was caught up in gusting winds of 20 miles per hour and found its way behind senior goalkeep­ “This team is capable of playing with anyone in the country. We know that.”  shots on goal advantage. The second half saw Dike get multiple chances on goal that he was just  
er Phillip Tuttle  not  able  to  
and into the back of the net. “We had a  Bobby Clark Irish coach  punch in. Twice in the early moments of the  

couple bad breaks,” Clark said. “They had just one shot in the first half and it was a goal. It got caught in the wind, and the wind got right behind the ball and it went up and down and poor Tuttle did not have much of a chance.” 
The game began at a chilly 44 degrees and swirling winds that seemed to have a severe effect on play all game. 
“This team knows it can play anywhere,” Clark said. “The weather was not a problem. Let’s be honest, it’s never warm when we play on senior day.” 
After the goal, things seemed bleak for the Irish, as they were playing against one of the best defenses in college soccer. Earlier in the year the Huskies had gone eight straight games without giving up a goal, and had only given up four all year. 
But the Irish did not let thoughts of futility mull for long after the Connecticut goal, as just two minutes later they got a chance for a corner kick. At the end of the game, the Irish led the corner kick battle 6 to 2. 
The boot from sophomore midfielder Brendan King found the head of Dike in the box, but Connecticut goalkeeper starters if possi­
ble],” Waldrum 
said. “Some of our key players who have car­ried us the whole season haven’t been able to get much rest. Being able to get them some rest heading into the later rounds of the Big East Tournament and the NCAA’s is good all the way around.” 
One substitute who was able to make the most of her opportunity was sophomore Ellen Jantsch. Late in the first half, Jantsch ran onto a chip into the box from junior Rose Augustin and sent a high header just past the diving Bulls keeper who couldn’t swat it away before it crossed the goal line. 
second half 
powerful shots from Dike from the top of the 18-yard box went just wide of the goalposts. 
Connecticut had a good chance to beat the Irish defense on a Husky junior for­ward Alan Ponce shot with just 27 minutes left in the game, but it went just wide. 
With 22 minutes left in regu­lation, King took a shot at what looked like a wide open goal, but a Connecticut defend­er was able to get a boot on the ball and prevent what seemed like a sure goal. 
The lack of scoring in the second half resulted in a 1-1 tie at the end of regulation. 
The Irish came out blasting as soon as overtime com­menced. Freshman midfielder Dillon Powers got a pass up to 
Three Irish goalkeepers combined for the shutout vic­tory in which neither was forced to make a save. Junior Nikki Weiss played the entire first half, before giving way to senior Kelsey Lysander and freshman Maddie Fox who split time in the second half. 
The victory sends Notre Dame into the Big East semi­finals where they will face a Saint John’s team which they haven’t seen since 2007. The Red Storm (13-5-1, 6-4-1) advanced to the semifinal round after a 1-0 double-overtime victory over Georgetown Sunday. 
“It’s been a while since we’ve faced [Saint John’s], but they are always very physical and real solid defen­sively,” Waldrum said. “We know they are going to be good. Any team that is able to make it this far into the tour­nament is certainly a good team.” 
The Irish will travel to Storrs, Conn. for their semifi­nal showdown with Saint John’s scheduled for 7:30 
p.m. Friday. The winner will move on to face the winner of the West Virginia-Marquette matchup in the Big East Championship Final Sunday. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
junior forward Jeb Brovsky who was able to feed Dike streaking passed the Connecticut defense. Dike was able to slide the ball passed the charging Ford and get his team-leading ninth goal of the year. 
“It was a great ball by Jeb, and it was a really great run,” Clark said. “When Bright makes these runs in behind he is almost unstoppable. The size, the speed, he’s got every­thing there.” 
The golden goal was the Irish’s third of the year, and was good enough to slide the Irish into first place in the Big East Blue Division. 
The Irish hopes now rest on a disappointing Marquette squad who need to win or draw against the Huskies in Connecticut for the Irish to hold the point advantage in the regular season. “Hopefully, maybe Marquette can squeeze a point out of [Connecticut], and we can get a third league championship in a row,” Clark said. “If the Marquette game was at Marquette, I think we could have a chance. But being in Connecticut it is a tough task.” 
But the Irish will continue to focus on their next game and getting some wins in the Big East Championship starting next weekend. 
“Hopefully we can get some more wins and squeeze our way into the NCAA tourna­ment,” Clark said. 
The Irish are looking good and getting hot at just the right time as the season is coming to a close. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

Shoot out 
continued from page 20 
onds into a power play, Notre Dame freshman Riley Sheahan got a shot past Buckeyes goaltender Cal Heeter with five minutes left in the first period. Three minutes later, Irish senior Dan Kissel was called for tripping and gave Ohio State (2-5-1, 1-2-1-1) a two-minute power play. Buckeyes junior Hunter Bishop used the advantage to tie the game 1­1. 
In the third period, Irish senior Kyle Lawson capital­ized on another five-on-four advantage, giving Notre Dame (4-3-1, 1-0-1-0 CCHA) a 2-1 lead. 
“To be honest, I knew it was the end of the [power play] and there was a couple seconds running down there,” Lawson said. “I just threw it on the net. I was surprised as anybody.” 
Clinging to the 2-1 margin, Irish senior captain Ryan Thang was called for slash­ing, giving Ohio State its third power play advantage of the game. Sophomore Zac Dalpe slipped a shot past Irish junior netminder Brad Phillips to tie the score at two with 15 minutes left in regulation. 
“[Phillips] has to learn how to close [games] out,” Jackson said. “I didn’t think the power play goal by Dalpe was a good goal. It was a wrist shot from outside the top of the circles. I didn’t think it was a great goal. We need that save.” 
Regulation ended without another goal and five min­utes of overtime passed qui­etly. The climatic shoot out began with goals on each side, as Ohio State junior John Albert shot the puck between Phillips’ legs, and Irish sophomore Billy Maday evened things up with a shot between Heeter and the right post. 
Neither side struck in the second round of the shoot out. Bishop out-juked Phillips in the third round, and after Heeter knocked away Notre Dame junior Ben Ryan’s shot, the Buckeyes had earned an extra point in the CCHA standings with a shoot out victory. 
“I don’t think we lost in a shoot out last year, so it’s hard to be on the wrong end of that,” Lawson said. “Sometimes the puck goes your way and sometimes it doesn’t. [Scoring] is not my job. My job is to keep the puck out of the back of the net. It is definitely tough to lose that way.” 
Friday Notre Dame used power play goals from junior Calle Ridderwall and senior Dan Kissel, along with an open net score from Maday, to top the Buckeyes. Freshman goaltender Mike Johnson anchored the Irish defense by stopping 27 of 28 shots. The only shot to slip by Johnson occurred with two Irish players in the penalty box to give the Buckeyes a five-on-three advantage. 
In his second career start, Johnson put together a sec­ond consecutive stellar start, putting pressure on Phillips in the top goaltender posi­tion. 
“[Johnson] in my opinion, is starting to challenge for that number one spot,” Jackson said after Saturday’s game. “I will have some patience with Brad just because of the layoff he had, but he has to show me he can win games.” 
The Notre Dame offense will look to finally erupt, and perhaps the goalie dilemma will sort itself out, when the Irish head to Alaska Friday for a two-game weekend series. 
“Alaska is a very tough team to play against, as peo­ple have seen last year and this year,” Jackson said. “It is going to be challenging ... We have to play real smart hock­ey with the puck and without it.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Monday, November 20, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Purplish 1 Sleep stage,for 34Betrayby short blabbing 4 Nog ingredient 36 Brings home for a score 
10 O pposite of subtracts 37 B-ball official 40 C hocolaty 
14 The “E”in 68­
morsel munched 
Across 
at movies 15 R elative of a 
42 N.F.L. six-
rhododendron pointers 16 Losing roll in a 43 Talks off the cuff casino 45 Bluefin and albacore 
17 Abrupt way to quit 47 Join forces 
48 V.P. Biden 
19 Former Big 
49 ___ congestion 
Apple mayor 
53 Bolivian capital 
G iuliani 54 C hooses, with 
20 More greasy 
“for” 
21 State of 
56 S outhwest 
weightlessness, 
Indian 
as in space 57 G ets around like 
23 Consumer 
S uperman 
24 S uffix with cigar 
59 Flared skirts 27 Monk s superior 61 S aharan country 30 Actress Rosie of south ofAlgeria 
“D o the R ight 63 R ound, red Thing” firecracker 32 Boat rower 66 Political coalition 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
V  A  T  I  C  A  N  I  I  R  I  V  E  T  
I  N  A  M  O  M  E  N  T  A  R  O  M  A  
S  A  N  S  S  O  U  C  I  D  A  T  E  S  
A  P  T  T  U  T  S  H  I  N  E  R  S  
V  E  R  O  R  E  D  S  O  X  S  A  E  
I  S  U  Z  U  R  E  A  D  K  I  L  L  
S  T  M  A  R  K  B  I  G  B  A  N  D  S  
R  A  N  D  D  E  A  R  
F  O  L  K  L  O  R  E  S  E  N  D  A  K  
I  R  I  S  L  E  O  X  Z  A  I  R  E  
R  E  T  P  L  A  N  E  S  K  A  O  N  
E  G  O  T  I  S  M  R  U  E  B  U  N  
L  A  T  I  N  J  U  X  T  A  P  O  S  E  
I  N  E  R  T  O  V  E  R  R  U  L  E  D  
T  O  S  E  A  B  A  S  A  L  B  O  D  Y  

67 Q uit ones job 68 C lassic car inits. 69 H igh points of a 
E uropean trip? 70 Annual tennis championship in Q ueens, N .Y. 71 Advice columnist Landers 
Down 
1 G et back, as lost money 2 Fictional girl at the Plaza Hotel 
3 Arthur who wrote “Death ofa S alesman” 
4 Label G or PG , e.g. 
5 Color of a picture-postcard sky 
6 ___ of 1812 7 Antlered animal 8 O ld, crotchety 
guy 9 Marvin of 
Motown 10 Circus performer 11 N arcs raid 12 Moms mate 13 N athan H ale, 
notably 18 More grim 22 Month-long 
Islamic observance 25 Hammer or saw 26 C lose-fitting sleeveless shirt 
28 Roman love poet 29 Fives and ___ 31 Africas fourth-
longest river and site of Victoria Falls 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Lynn Lempel  
35 “___ better to have loved and lost …”  44 Type for book titles 46 Form of address  55 Beetle B aileys boss 58 L ight brown  
36 H ot dog holder  in B ritish India  60 O ne of the  
37 Fidel C astros brother 38 “G iant” writer Ferber 39 Beach footwear 41 Performing pair  48 Teases playfully 50 Mexican state on the G ulf of C alifornia 51 Tarz an and kin 52 Portugalscapital  R edgrave sisters 61 D egree for a C .E .O . 62 E ntirely 64 That, south of the border 65 ___ Van W inkle  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. O nline subscriptions: Todays puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JEFF KNUREK
SCHAD & FREUDE WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
COLIN HOFMAN
MOBILE PARTY UNIT 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Monday, November 2, 2009 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Harangody leads Irish over Lewis in exhibition 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Luke Harangody hasn’t changed abit. 
He had 33 points and nine rebounds in Notre Dame’s 70-54 win over Division-II Lewis in Sunday’s exhibition game, the first one of the season and the first in the new Purcell Pavilion at the JoyceCenter. 
Harangody picked up right where he left offlast season, when he averaged 23 points and 11.8 rebounds, making 15-of-25 field goals. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Henderson’s three goals lead Irish over USF 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore forward Melissa Henderson’s three goals high­lighted a five-goal first half for No. 5/7 Notre Dame, who sent South Florida packing with a dominant 5-0 victory in the quarterfinals of the Big East Tournament Sunday at Alumni Stadium. 
“I thought [our perform­ance] was great,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “We only had one game this week and you always worry that with a longer week you might lose your rhythm and not come out sharp, but that did-n’t happen.” 
Henderson got the Irish (15-3-1, 10-0-1 Big East) on the board in the 11th minute 
see BULLS/page 18 
Sunday’sgame was thefirsttime senior guard Ben Hansbrough played for the Irish — the Mississippi State transfer sat out lastseason.HisolderbrotherTyler, who won a championship with North Carolina last season and now plays for the Pacers, watched from the stands. Hansbrough scored12pointson4-of-8shooting andhadsevenrebounds. 
“I knew he’d be playing a little too fast tonight after sitting out for a year,” coach Mike Brey told und.com about Hansbrough. “When we were struggling, he made some drives and got to the foul line and got us off the hook a few times. Ilove his competiveness and I think he’s going to score the ball for us because he can do it in somanydifferentways.” 
Forward Tyrone Nash, guard Tory Jackson and guard Jonathan PeoplesroundedouttheIrishstart­inglineup. 
“It’s small steps with this group, and as we try to analyze things, we’ll start to figure this team out,” BreytoldtheathleticWebsiteafter thegame. 
The Irish took a 21-12 lead with 8:18remaininginthefirsthalf and kept building on it. Peoples’ 3­pointer made the lead 30-16 with 
5:05 remaining. Peoples finished witheightpoints. 
Lewis put together a 9-2 run to endthehalf,however,andtheIrish led32-25athalftime. 
Lewis took a 41-40 lead with 
14:45 left in the game on Dennis Thomas Jr.’s layup. Lewis held the lead until Hansbrough hit two free throws to tie the game at 44 and Harangody hit a jumper to take a two-pointleadwith12:42left. 
Notre Dame pulled away, and two free throws from Harangody gave Notre Dame a six-point lead with 7:06 remaining. Lewis would get no closer than six the rest of theway. 
The Irish allowed three 3-point-
Hat Trick 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Teammoves into first in bluedivision 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
n a game that the Irish had to win against No. 5 Connecticut in order to have a shot at winning the Big East Blue Division, Notre Dame came up big with a senior for­ward Bright Dike golden goal in the first minute of extra time. 
The Irish (10-7-1, 8-3-0 Big East) leapfrogged over Connecticut (10-3-3; 7-2-1) to take the top spot in the divi­sion. If Marquette (4-9-3; 3-4­
3) can travel to Connecticut on Monday night and pull out a win or a draw, the Irish will win their third consecutive league championship. 
“It was a very good win for 
see DIKE/page 18 
HOCKEY 
Buckeyes defeat ND in shoot out 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s offensive struggles continued in its weekend doubleheader with Ohio State as the No. 11/8 Irish tied the Buckeyes 2-2 Saturday — Ohio State earned the edge in the tie by winning the shoot out 2-1 — after win­ning 3-1 Friday. 
“We got a tie and a win out of the weekend, which is not bad,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “I would prefer two wins, but hopefully it helps us.” 
All four regulation goals Saturday were scored on power plays, one for each team in the first and third periods, respectively. Ten sec-
see SHOOT OUT/page18 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Freshman Nick Larson breaks away with the puck during Notre Dame’s shoot out loss to Ohio State Oct. 31. 
ersineachhalftoLewis,whichfin­ished the game shooting 31.6 per­cent from 3-point range. Guard Chris McClellan made 4-of-9 from behind the arc and led the team with18points. 
Lewis only reached the foul line four times and made just two free throws. 
NotreDameplaysitsfinalexhibi­tion game againstQuincy Friday at the Joyce Center at 7:30 p.m. beforeopeningregular-seasonplay on Nov. 14 at home against North Florida. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
ND MEN’S GOLF 
Notre Dame takes 2nd in Match Play 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
After winning their first two matches on the week­end, the Irish fell short of the championship at “The Match Play,” losing in the final match against Louisville 3.5 to 2.5 to finish in second place on the weekend, ending their fall season. 
“I’m happy we bounced back from our last two tour­naments,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “They bounced back this weekend and got two nice wins. 
Honestly, I wish we could have played at one 100 per­cent healthy, because we were so close. Overall, I was very proud of the efforts we put in, and how hard they tried out there.” 
By the final day of the tournament, the Irish had five of their six players bat­tling flu-like symptoms, but were able to keep things close with Louisville. 
Battling the most severe of the illnesses, fifth-year sen­ior Josh Sandman, after somewhat struggling in the first two matches of the 
see MATCH/page 17 




