

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
University remembers Rabbi Signer 
Theology prof, who died Jan. 10, studied relationship between Judiasm and Catholicism 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Friends, students and col­leagues commemorated the life of Rabbi Michael Signer, the Abrams Professor of Jewish Thought and Culture at Notre Dame who died Saturday Jan. 10, at a memo­rial service Monday. 
Many speakers remembered Signer's spirited personality and lauded his work studying the Christian and Jewish faiths and its impact on the University and the wider com­munity. 
"You acquired an empathy for all things Catholic, even 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Medical amnesty policy 

discussed 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Members of Campus Life Council (CLC) proposed a plan to use surveys to learn more about students' views on the Medical Amnesty Policy and about the transition process for multicultur­al and international students at their Monday meeting. 
Chief Executive Assistant Karen Koski, said questions regarding the Medical Amnesty Policy, which would protect students who have been drinking from getting in trouble while helping an intoxi­cated friend who is hurt or sick, will be included in student gov­ernment's survey over Spring Break. 
Questions like "Do you feel like you know how to handle a case of severe alcohol poisoning effective­ly?" and "Who do you turn to first when there is a problem while drinking?" will be included in the survey, according to Koski. 
"Hopefully, this will shed some light on the actual issue at hand," she said. 
.Koski also said her task force will meet with a representative from the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and four resident assistants to "get a few more opinions on this and how they see 
see CLC/page 6 though you were not Catholic," Theology Department Chair John Cavadini said in a eulogy for Signer. 

Although the two disagreed on the fun­damental beliefs of their reli­gions, Cavadini said he 
. always felt comfortable engaging in 

Signer

theological discussions with Signer. Signer considered others beliefs with respect, even if he did not agree, he said. 
"Even though you did not 

Mendoza climbs in rankings 
BusinessWeek names ND business program No.2 in nation 
By AARON STEINER 
Top Undergraduate Business Pr~rams
Assistant News Editor 
The Mendoza College of Business moved up one spot in BusinessWeek's annual survey of undergraduate business programs, according to the rankings in the latest edition of the magazine available on newsstands yesterday. 
Now second only to the University of Virginia, Notre Dame's program was ranked third last year, seventh in 2007 and third in 2006. 
Since being ranked third, the College of Business adopt-
see RANK/page 4 


Purcell talks faith, public service 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 

Faith can provide guid­ance and support in works of public service and col­lege students across the country are answering the call, Bill Purcell, former mayor of Nashville, Tenn. and current director of Harvard's Institute of Politics, said in a lecture to Notre Dame students Monday night. 
"The great news about this moment in time is that, on this campus and on campuses all across the country, your hearts 
DAN JACOBS/The Observer are right on this issue and Bill Purcell, director of Harvard's Institute of Politics, your heads are right on spoke on faith and public service Monday. this issue," he said. 
believe in it, you gave affec­tionate statements of disagree­ment," he said. "That was the greatness of your soul." 
Cavadini joked that Signer spoke many languages, and one of them was Catholic. 
"You knew the difference between Jesuits and Domiiiicans," he said. 
Signer studied the compli­cated relationship between Catholicism and Judaism and inspired positive dialogue about the differences, Cavadini said. He said when Signer was hired, he knew Notre Dame was not only getting a scholar, but also a teacher. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins said the University 
accord!ina to 8ugnes5Week 

was lucky to have Signer as a faculty member. 
"He allowed us to build bridges both spiritually and intellectually between the great Jewish religion and this Catholic University," he said. 
Jenkins said Signer made the school a richer and better place and participated fully in Notre Dame life. 
"In his robust, generous way, he was completely part of the community," he said "We will always remember him in grat­itude. I give thanks. for his life." 
Theology professor Fr. Richard McBrien said bringing 
see SIGNER/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


College 
•


examines poverty 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Linda Wolfson, a member of the Community Forum for Economic Development, put poverty in concrete perspec­tive at Saint Mary's Human Rights Panel discussion on Monday. 
"Poverty is not a statistic," she said. "It is not an amount of money you have to make over the line or under the line. It's people." 
Students and staff spent part of their lunch hour lis­tening to a discussion spon­sored by the Saint Mary's College Justice Education Program and the Office for Civic and Social Engagement in Stapleton Lounge Monday from 12 to 1 p.m. 
As the second part of a spring lecture series com­memorating the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the panel focused on the right to live free from the hardship of poverty. 
The discussion featured panelists who have experi­ence living in poverty, four of whom were guests from Hope Ministries and the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. For privacy rea­sons, the panelists requested that The Observer not use their last names. 
A guest from Hope Ministries who identified herself as Rose described 
see PANEL/page 6 
"[Notre Dame students] have been leading in this particular area for quite some time." 
The lecture was titled "American Politics Living Faithful Citizenship" and took place in the auditorium of the University's Eck Center. 
Purcell cited a speech by President John F. Kennedy in 1963, which stated that educated citizens are obli­gated to serve the public. This call to public service, Purcell said, is still rele­vant today. 
Purcell, who has worked in public service for more 
see PURCELL/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 3, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Don't 

Panic 
I'm dedicating "this column to all the seniors who don't quite have their schedules settled after May 17. For those who have jobs or graduate school already figured out, I am truly happy and excited for you. However, you don't need any help, so I'll see you at Fever on Thursday. 
For the rest of you (the majority), things are starting to get a little crazy. 
If you are like me, you have had 
some interviews,  
filled out dozens  Jim McGuire  
of maddeningly  
inefficient online  
applications, and  Scene Writer  
felt generally  
demoralized a  

few times in the process. 
With the recession still going strong and corporate layoffs affect­ing just about every major industry, it's hard out there for a second semester senior who wants a chance to prove himself or herself. 
It isn't just Arts & Letters students having a hard time either. The big financial services outfits can't afford to pay those big signing bonuses like they used to, and even some engi­neers have been left scratching their heads because of the slowdown. The Career Center does a great job, but they can't fix the job market for you (though I am sure they would if they could). 
At this point sitting fn a corner and sobbing might seem like a sensible option, but it won't make you feel any better or help you get that awe­some first job you want. So what are seniors in limbo supposed to do? 
First, don't panic. There is still time to look and weigh options. Did you apply to grad school as a "backup" to fmding a job? Well, graduate school is hardly a "back-up," it's a way to improve your skill set, get some more real-world experience, and continue hitting the bars every night during the week (come on, Master of Divinity students, don't think I don't know what happens at Fischer­Grace every night). 
But, if you feel that you have got­ten as much higher education as you will ever need, remember not to limit yourself and look at multiple openings where you can use your various skills. You shouldn't neces­sarily take a really undesirable job just because it's there but realize that if you are willingto put in some effort and really work the heck out of that job, you can and will move on to bigger and better things. 
Also, remember that you go to Notre Dame and that still means something (although I can't tell you exactly what that something is). Employers might not lay out the red carpet for you right away but just use that little extra something that got you in here and you'll go far. 
While my meandering thoughts might not help you get that job you want, just think about all the advan­tages you have had over the past four years and know that you have a whole campus that wants you to suc­ceed, even if it is just so you can one day pay for a new, fancy building on campus with your name on it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Jim McGuire at jmcguir2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: JF YOU COULD MORPH ANY 7WO ANIMALS TOGETHER, WHAT WOULD THEY BE? 






Alica Carroll  Don Whitley  Sam Tulisiak  Maggie Kendzicky  Lizzy Maltby  
freshman  junior  freshman  freshman  freshman  
LeMans  Stanford  LeMans  Holy Cross  LeMans  
"A sasquatch  ''A ferret and a  ''A chipmunk  ''A hippo and  ''A shitzu and a  
and a  duck."  and a  platypus. ''  bulldog."  
chinchilla. ,  nightingale. ,  


Neb. deputies claim man stuffed cat inside bong 
OMAHA -A man who tried to cool out his hyper cat by stuffing her into a boxlike homemade bong faces cruel­ty charges -and catcalls from animal lovers. Lancaster County sheriff's deputies responding to a domestic disturbance call Sunday alleged they saw 20­year-old Acea Schomaker smoking marijuana through a piece of garden hose attached to a duct-taped, plastic glass box in which the cat had been stuffed. 
"This cat was just dazed," Sgt. Andy Stebbing said. "She was on the front seat of the cop car, wrapped in a blan­ket, and never moved all the way to the humane society." 
Schomaker told deputies 6­month-old Shadow was hyper and he was trying to calm her down. The contrap­tion she had been stuffed inside was 12 inches by 6 inches. Shadow was timid but in good condition Monday at the Capital Humane Society, executive director Bob Downey said. 
Police: Man used fake money to buy fake drugs 
ERWIN, Tenn.-A man was been arrested after police said he used counter­feit money to purchase fake OxyContin pills from an undercover officer. Unicoi County Sheriff's deputies arrested a 21-year-old man on Tuesday and charged him with criminal conspiracy with schedule II drugs, forgery and criminal simulation. 
Investigator Frank Rogers said the officer met with sev­eral people at a mobile home park and arranged for the suspect and another man to come to Unicoi to buy 76 OxyContin pills for $4,875. 
Officers said it was "obvi­ously bad money" with some bills printed on just one side. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY  TONIGHT  WEDNESDAY  THURSDAY  
0:: UJ ::1:  
~  
UJ 3:  ~  ~  ~  
.... c:t (.) 0 ...I  HIGH LOW  29 20  HIGH LOW  23 16  HIGH LOW  40 29  HIGH LOW  50 39  
Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 


IN BRIEF 

A lecture titled "Environment and Revolution in 20th-century Mexico: A Historical Case Study of Agrarian Reform and its Implications for the New Left of Latin America Today" will take place today at 12:30 p.m. in Room C103 of the Heshurgh Center. 
The film "Slumdog Millionaire" will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today at 8 p.m., Thursday at 6:30 p.m. and 
9:30 p.m., Friday at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., and Saturday at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 
Xahier Agirre Aranburu, senior analyst, Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court in the Netherlands, is being honored with the Kroc Institute's 2009 Distinguished Alumni Award in the Heshurgh Auditorium today at 4:15 p.m during a lecture called "Make Law, Not War: On the Power of Truth, Law, and Justice." 
The Notre Dame Chamber Players are holding a concert to benefit the South Bend Community School Corporation. All proceeds will go to the pur­chase of musical instruments for various schools in the dis­trict. Sponsored by the Department of Music, the con­cert will take place Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $8 faculty/staff and $3 for all students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
HIGH 51 HIGH 
50 
LOW 38 LOW 
31 
e 

~ 
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

For Gay, lesbian. BisexualS Ouestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuasday. March 3 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 310 Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay. lesbian. bisexual Hquestioning members of the Notre Dame family. along with their friends and allys, to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 

CoHee andRefreshments Wt11 Be Served 
Graduate School dean passes away 
Special to The Observer 

Terrence J. Akai, senior asso­ciate dean of the Graduate School, died Saturday in his home. He was 59 years old. 
A native of Guyana, South America, Akai joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1976 as a research associate in aero­space and mechanical engi­neering who specialized in fluid mechanics. Holding con­current appointments in that department, computer science and engineering, and mathe­matics, Akai taught some 15 courses during his career, including a popular mathemat­ics course based on a seminal and widely adopted textbook of which he was ·the author, "Applied Numerical Methods for Engineers." He had received every possible teach­ing award at Notre Dame by the time he was appointed assistant dean of the Graduate School in 1994. As senior asso­ciate dean, Akai was principal­ly responsible for graduate admissions, administering thousands of applications each year. 
"Terry Akai was both col­league and friend to countless people at Notre Dame," said Gregory Sterling, dean of the Graduate School. "His death is as much a personal as a pro­fessional loss for the graduate school and the University as a whole, and we join our sorrow, thoughts and prayers with those of the Akai family." 
Universally praised by his former students for his con­spicuous commitment to their success inside and outside the classroom, Akai once described his teaching method as intend­ed "to dispel myths and to develop appropriate attitudes and approaches to problems ­to develop a style of thinking." 
Akai's own style of thinking, to the delight of the many col­leagues, students, staff mem­bers and visitors encountering him in the corridors and entrances of Notre Dame's Main Building, was droll and gregarious. Along with a remarkable administrative effi­ciency, he always had time for an anecdote or a joke. 
A visitation will be held from 3 to 8 p.m. Wednesday in the Palmer Funeral Home-River Park, where a funeral service will be at 11 a.m. Thursday. A reception for Akai's family, friends and colleagues will be held from 12:30 to 2 p.m. Thursday in McKenna Hall. 
A memorial Mass for the Notre Dame community will be held on March 16, at 3:30 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

Student Affairs 
is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the 
qualities for which Denny Moore was known, 
including personal integrity and character, 
con1mitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
hftJl:/!osa.nd.cdu/get-involved/studcnt-activities-and-awards/denny-moore-award/ 
No111inations are due by ThursdaJ), March 5, 2009. 







Initiative to focus on faculty diversity 
Special to The Observer 

In response to recommenda­tions from two committees, Notre Dame will pursue a series of initiatives designed to enhance support for a diverse faculty. 
The initiatives were detailed in a letter sent this week to faculty by University President, Fr. John Jenkins, and provost, Thomas G. Burish. They are based upon reports prepared last year by the University Committee on Diversity and the University Committee on Women Faculty and Students. 
"The intellectual interchange that is essential to a university requires, and is enriched by, the presence and voices of diverse scholars and stu­dents," Jenkins said. "Beyond the benefits diversity brings to all universities, we hold this commitment also because Notre Dame is a Catholic uni­versity." 
Burish added: "We reaffirm that cultivating a diverse intel­lectual community makes us a better university. Successfully recruiting, hiring, developing and retaining women faculty and faculty of color are funda­mental to this aim." 
Notre Dame has realized sig­nificant increases in the num­ber of women and minority students in the past two decades. Since 1989, the per­centage of women in the stu­dent body has grown from 34 percent to 47 percent, and the percentage of minority stu­dents has increased from 12 percent to 21 percent. 
The committee reports 
acknowledged that the University also has made progress increasing the num­ber of women faculty and fac­ulty of color but made it clear that "more progress is required," particularly in the recruitment and retention of senior women faculty and fac­ulty of color at all levels. 
To that end, the initiatives announced in the letter from Notre Dame's top two officers include: 
Don Pope-Davis, vice presi­dent, associate provost and professor of psychology,will direct University efforts relat­ed to faculty of color. Susan 
Ohmer, William T.  and Helen  
Kuhn  Carey  Associate  
Professor  of  Modern  
Communication,  has  been  

appointed assistant provost and will coordinate oversight efforts relating to women fac­ulty. Pope-Davis and Ohmer will work closely with deans, department chairs and others involved in faculty recruit­ment, hiring, retention, men­toring and development. 
The University has provided funding for and begun discus­sions about a postdoctoral pro­gram designed to help young scholars from under-repre­sented groups advance their careers and possibly attract some to positions at Notre Dame. 
The Dual Career Assistance Program, which has helped the spouses of recently hired full-time faculty and staff iden­tify potential employment opportunities in the area or at Notre Dame, now will be made available to spouses of current faculty. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
Circle K serves Holy Cross Sisters 
40 students dedicate time to organize events at Saint Mary's Convent 
class requirement, Moore said. 
By MOLLY MADDEN "He liked it so much, he asked 
News Writer 
me if his club, Circle K, could start volunteering on a regular 
A group of Notre Dame stu­basis," she said. "I happily dents have been making a dif­agreed." ference in the community by About 40 students from Circle spending time with a group of K come twice a week to volun­
retired Sisters of  teer  at  the  
the Holy Cross.  Convent. The stu­ 
"These kids are just phe­nomenal," Lee  'The sisters enjoy talking to them and  dents help in many different ways, from deco­ 
Ann Moore, director of activ­ities and volun­ look forward to their visits immensely. "  rating to organiz­ing games to just enjoying the sis- 
teer services at  ters' company.  
the Saint Mary's  Lee Ann Moore  " W h a t e v e r  
Convent,  said.  director of activities and  event  we  have  
"They are just so much a part of us."  volunteer services Saint Mary's Convent  going on here, they get involved in it and make  
Circle  K,  a  themselves a part  
service club at  of it," Moore said.  

Notre Dame, dedicates a few The students have put togeth­hours of their week to assist the er elaborate events for the sis­sisters at the Convent. ters to enjoy, Moore said. 
The Circle K group became Moore said they have organ­involved with the Convent six ized parties to watch Notre years ago when former Notre Dame football games and Dame student and Circle K planned carnivals and President Jake Teitgen Christmas concerts. Last year, approached Moore about work­according to Moore, they even ing with the sisters. recreated New Orleans' 
Teitgen performed community Bourbon Street to celebrate service at the convent for a Mardi Gras -including the 
Signer 
continued from page 1 
Signer to Notre Dame was one his "final and finest" achieve­ments when he was head of the theology department. Signer was a professor, director of the Notre Dame Holocaust project and a fellow in the University's Medieval Institute, he said. 
But McBrien also remem­bered casual conversations with Signer in addition to his intel­lectual legacy. 
"Michael and I had a common interest in film," he said. "We would give our personal reviews and recommendations to each other." 
Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop Fr. John D'Arcy said 
At Notre Dame, according to the report, "administrators tap


Rank 
the school's well-connected continued from page 1 alumni network to scout jobs 
and offer advice to students." ed the slogan "No. 3. We're not Woo said while the ranking done yet." Now, Dean Carolyn only applies to the College of Woo said the phrase changes Business, she credits the entire slightly. University with the College's 
"Our new statement is ... success, specifically noting 
'Now No. 2, still not through,"' she said. Woo said that while she can appreciate the rankings, "we're not actually striv­ing for No. 1." 
"It's about striving for excellence," she said. "It's about chal­
services provided by the Career Center. 
"It's all of these
"Our new statement is 
areas that allow 
... 'Now No. 2, still us to successful not through."' and I'm grate­ful," Woo said. The report also
Carolyn Woo 

said Notre Dame 
Mendoza College of 
scored better on 
Business the student sur­vey this year, which counts for 30 percent of the 
lenging our students." 
The new rankings reflect the uncertainty many students feel in the job market, according the BusinessWeek report. 
The article stated that 54 percent of seniors surveyed did not have a job offer as of January, and schools that excelled in the rankings ­including Notre Dame -put strong emphasis on job place­ment. 
final ranking. The College received an "A+" grade in the three areas of Teaching Quality, Facilities and Service and Job Placement. 
The report -and the BusinessWeek reports of previ­ous years -lists "a focus on ethics" as a unique feature of a Notre Dame business educa­tion. 
Woo cautioned that just because the College is consis­parade floats. 
The efforts by the students do not go unnoticed by the retired sisters, Moore said. 
"They bring a liveliness to us," she said. "We're somewhat of a quiet place around here but from the time they're here, you can hear the sisters' laughter in the halls." 
Moore said the sisters appre­ciate the students' generosity and take an interest in their lives. 
"The sisters enjoy talking to them and look forward to their visits immensely," she said. "The sisters worry about them. They're always concerned about their studies and their health. They offer up their prayers for these kids all the time." 
Moore said despite the fact that the seniors graduate every year, the club continues to grow. 
"This group is just so dedicat­ed," Moore said. "It can be absolutely freezing outside and they will still come over and bring such happiness, youth and spirit to us. They really are unsung heroes." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 

Signer will be missed by both the wider community and Notre Dame in a letter that was read at the service. 
"The presence of such a dis­tinguished Jewish scholar at Notre Dame ... is among the highest significance," D'Arcy said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

tently recognized for this focus, "it doesn't mean that we should pat ourselves on the back." 
"We have to step up and live our values, not just know them," Woo said. 
Woo credited the students in the College of Business as being a primary reason for the College's success in the rank­ings. 
"It's by their hard work and the reputation they earn us we succeed," she said. 
She did offer one bit of advice to students. 
"Be humble," she said. "I think that everybody should be pleased and proud, but know that the journey never ends." 
This is the fourth year BusinessWeek has compiled rankings. 
The magazine uses nine measures to determine the rankings, including surveys, senior business majors and recruiters, median starting salaries for graduates, SAT scores, student-faculty ratios, class size, the percentage of students with internships and the number of hours students devote to class work. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 



ResNet offers tips for virus protection 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 

A functioning computer is a prized possession on a college campus. Kathy Hausmann, Coordinator of Student Computing at Saint Mary's College, explained ways to pro­tect them from malicious soft­ware at the Computer Security Awareness lecture in Vander Vennet Monday evening. 
Hausmann discussed threats such as viruses, trojans, spy­ware and malware, phishing and spam as well as topics like me sharing, passwords, physi­cal security, backing up data and Facebook. 
Trojans, a type of malware that appears to execute a desirable function but in reali­ty performs malicious func­tions, are especially danger­ous because they are difficult to detect and both Macs and PCs are susceptible to them, Hausmann said. 
"If you have a trojan, whoev­er designed that trojan has 
complete access to y o u r machine, including your pass­words and credit card information," Hausmann said. 
Viruses can innltrate your e-mail and program your outbox to spread the bug to thou­sands of recipients, Hausmann said. 

"If you have a trojan, whoever designed that trojan has complete access to your machine, including your passwords and credit card information" 
Kathy Hausmann coordinator Student Computing 
poena from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), 
then  it  is  
required  to  
release  the  
names  of  the  

students involved, Hausmann said. 
The physical security of a stu­dent's computer can also be an issue. Recently, a laptop was stolen on cam­pus, Hausmann said. She sug­
She gave tips on how pro­tecting your computer from trojans and viruses, such as ensuring your anti-virus soft­ware is up-to-date. This soft­ware is available to faculty, students and staff free of charge on the the ResNet Web site. 
She also said to be cautious of certain e-m ails. 
"If you receive an e-mail, if it's not personalized, don't click on the links. Don't click on the attachments. They are probably viral," Hausmann said. 
Sites offering free items or downloads can also be danger­ous to use. 
"If a free copy of software, music or video sounds too good to be true, it probably is," Hausmann said. 
There are programs that can be downloaded onto comput­ers to prevent viruses, trojans and malware. McAfee, Spywarc Blaster, Anti-Malware and Ad-Aware are all available on the HesNet Web site for download, including instruc­tions on how to use them, she said. 
Hausmann also discussed recent phishing scams discov­ered on campus that attempt to collect personal information. 
Hausmann emphasized the importance of calling the com­panies that send out the e­mails asking for information. Legitimate companies rarely, if ever, ask for such sensitive information over e-mail, Hausmann said. 
Another problem on the Saint Mary's campus, as well as other campuses across the country, is file sharing of copy­righted material. Illegal down­loading is grounds for being removed from the network, Hausmann said. 
"If [students] come into the office with file sharing soft­ware on their computers then we will remove it before we do anything else," she said. 
If an outside agency informs the College that students have been file sharing copyrighted material, their computers will be locked out of the network until the problem is resolved. If Saint Mary's receives a sub­
gested students get laptop locks for their computers when they are in a public place. 
Hausmann also discussed backing up data on your com­puter. External hard drives and !lash drives are helpful tools in keeping your rues safe, she said. 
"Schedule backups weekly, usc your calendar if you have to," Hausmann said. 
She addressed Facebook and the privacy issues involved with the popular networking Web site. She recommended that users remove their Facebook pages from Google, protect their wall posts and pictures with privacy features and choose their friends care­fully. 
Hausmann warned students "once it's up on Facebook, once it's on the Internet, it is permanently on the Internet." 
If Saint Mary's faculty, stu­dents or staff do have issues with their computers they can visit the HesNet office located in 102 Haggar College Center, she said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 









ORLD. & NATION 
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 CoMPILED FROMTHE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
.. 
Citizens desire cease-fire, not money 
RAFAH, Gaza Strip -As top diplomats pledged billions of dollars for war-ravaged Gaza on Monday, ordinary people here. ­from merchants to housewives-said they'd rather have open borders than handouts. 
Even some tunnel smugglers who profit from Gaza's blockaded borders say they'd rather import legally through open crossings than risk Israeli bombing raids and shaft col­lapses. 
"I want a cease"fire and open borders. Crossings are better than tunnels," said 22­year-old smuggler Abu Mahmoud, leaning over a shaft as workers tried to clear a 300­foot stretch of tunnel that had collapsed under an Israeli airstrike. 
Bidder reveals auction fraud 
BEIJING -A Chinese art collector revealed himself Monday as the man behind the winning bids for two imperial bronzes auctioned at Christie's over Beijing's objec·­tions, then announced he had no intention of paying the $36 million. 
The audacious act of commercial sabotage exposes the tensions China and other coun­tries, such as Greece and Egypt, face in try­ing to recover cultural objects plundered in war or stolen. One overseas expert in looted relics called the fake bids "brilliant" -a ploy likely to be copied in future disputed sales. 
The bogus bids were the latest attempt by both the Chinese government and private cit­izens to block the sale of the pieces, which disappeared when French and British forces sacked and burned the imperial Summer Palace outside Beijing in 1860 at the end of the second Opium War. Chinese view the dev­astation of the palace as a national humilia­tion. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Former reality star to face charges 
MIAMI -On top of the world a few months ago, Brazilian race car driver and "Dancing with the Stars" champ Helio Castroneves faces possi­ble prison time if convicted at a tax evasion trial that began Monday with selection of a jury. 
An ethnically diverse panel of five men and seven women was chosen to hear the case, with attorneys' opening statements set for Tuesday. 
Castroneves, a two-time winner of the Indianapolis 500, smiled broadly as he entered Miami's downtown federal courthouse. Prosecutors say Castroneves, his business-man­ager sister Katiucia and Michigan attorney Alan 
R. Miller conspired to hide about $5.5 million in income from the Internal Revenue Service using offshore accounts. 

Anthony trial date set for October 
ORLANDO -A central Florida mother will go on trial in October on a charge of murdering her 2-year-old daughter. 
Casey Anthony's first-degree murder trial has been tentatively set for Oct. 12. 
She is accused of killing her daughter, Caylee, whose remains were found in the woods in Orlando last December, six months after she disappeared. 
Circuit Judge Stan Strickland also agreed to temporarily stop the public release of a jailhouse video of Case.y Anthony reacting to news that Caylee's remains had been found until her defense attorney can view the video. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. prisoners receive more funding 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana has three adults on parole or probation for every one in prison or jail, but the state invests only two cents in programs for them for every $1 it spends on incarceration, a new report says. 
The report by the Pew Center on the States said one in 35 Indiana adults is on parole or probation -the eighth highest rate among states -but the state has poured far more money into prison and jail cells than it has into programs for ex­cons who have been released. 

Powerful storm blankets East Coast 
Large snowfall causes widespread _school cancellations and travel delays 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A ferocious storm packing freezing rain, heavy snow and furious wind gusts paralyzed most of the East Coast on Monday, send­ing dozens of cars careening into ditches, grounding hun­dreds of flights and closing school for millions of kids. 
The devastating effects of the storm were seen up and down the coast. A crash caused a 15-mile traffic jam in North Carolina, forcing police and the Red Cross to go car-to-car to check on stranded drivers. The storm was blamed for 350 crashes in New Jersey, and a Maryland official counted about 50 cars in the ditch on one stretch of highway. 
By Monday, the storm had moved north into New England, and most areas in the storm's wake expected to see at least eight to 12 inches of snow. The weather con­tributed to four deaths on roads in Massachusetts, Rhode Island and on Long Island. 
Diane Lugo, of Yonkers, 
N.Y. got a ride with her hus­band to avoid walking 10 minutes in the slush to her bus stop. "Getting out of the driveway was pure hell," Lugo said. "He got to work everywhere, with about 950 in Philadelphia, Boston and of an orange snow plow at a late. I'm obviously late." flights canceled at the three New York City did the same. garage. Central Park record­
The South was especially main airports in the New It was the first time in more ed 7 inches of snow,. and hard hit, dealing with record York area and nearly 300 than five years that New more than a foot was report­snowfalls, thick ice and hun­flights canceled in York City called off classes ed on parts of Long Island, dreds of thousands of power Philadelphia. Boston's Logan for its 1.1 million public where high winds caused 2­outages in a region not International Airport had to school students. foot drifts on highways in the accustomed to such vicious shut down for about 40 min­Some New York parents Hamptons. weather. utes to clear a runway, and complained that the city The storm offered a hint of 
In North Carolina, Raleigh hundreds of flights were can­waited until 5:40a.m. to call irony in a couple of cities. got more than three inches celed there. off classes, saying they didn't People had to brave the of snow; the March snowfall Philadelphia declared a have enough notice. Mayor snow and cold to attend the for the city has exceeded Code Blue weather emer­Michael Bloomberg brushed annual Philadelphia Flower three inches only 11 times in gency, which gives officials off the criticism and praised Show, an indoor exhibition the last 122 years. The the authority to bring home­the city's storm response, that provided a fragrant, Weather Service said parts of less people into shelters which included dispatching spring-like glimpse of yellow Tennessee received the because the weather poses a 2,000 workers and 1,400 daffodils, crimson azaleas biggest snowfall since 1968. threat of serious harm or plows to work around the and white tulips. In the 
The 15-mile traffic jam in death. clock to clean New York's nation's capital, hundreds of North Carolina caused no Dozens of schools across 6,000 miles of streets. protesters gathered on serious problems and North Carolina, South "It's like plowing from here Capitol Hill to protest a authorities were able to get Carolina, New Hampshire, to Los Angeles and back," power plant and global traffic moving again. New Jersey and Maine gave Bloomberg said at a news warming during one of the 
Travelers were stranded children a snow day. Schools conference, standing in front worst storms of the year. 



Castro shakes up Cuban government 
Associated Press calls for a "more compact and func­close to Fidel Castro and built his 
tional structure" for the often career working directly for Fidel 
HAVANA -President Raul Castro unwieldy communist bureaucracy that Castro," said Phil Peters, a Cuba spe­abruptly ousted some of Cuba's most oversees nearly all public activity on cialist at the Lexington Institute near powerful officials Monday, remaking the island. Washington. the government in the biggest shakeup The most sweeping leadership Perez Roque was replaced by his since he took over from his ailing shakeup in years was dropped on own deputy, Bruno Rodriguez, who brother Fidel Castro a year ago. Cubans almost as an afterthpught -once served as Cuba's ambassador to 
The changes replaced some key at the end of the midday news, follow­the United Nations. Officials Fidel loyalists, including the longtime ing the weather and sports. announced no new post for Perez foreign minister, with men closer to The most prominent of those ousted, Roque. Raul. They also reduced the enormous Foreign Mini~ter Felipe Perez Roque, The surprise shake-up did not sit powers of a vice president credited was the youngest of Cuba's top leaders well with some Cubans, including with saving Cuba's economy after the and had been widely mentioned as a Carmen Elizondo, 45, a h9usewife fall of the Soviet Union. possible future president. with three children who said she 
But analysts saw no immediate indi­Perez Roque, 43, had been Fidel heard the announcement on the news. cation that the changes are related to Castro's personal secretary before "Ay! It left me feeling cold," Elizondo hopes for closer U.S.-Cuban ties now becoming foreign minister almost a said. "I don't understand. Why make that both countries have new presi­decade ago, and he delighted in blus­these changes, more than anything, dents. tery, Fidel-Jike denunciations of U.S. Felipe? I had a lot of confidence in 
Several ministries were consolidated policy. Felipe. I don't know any of those they in response to President Raul Castro's "He was someone who was very put in place." 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
Panel 
continued from page 1 

how the Center has helped her to escape a life on the streets. 
"I had hit rock bottom," she said. "I fost my kids, everything. Hope is helping her get them back slowly but surely." 
With the help of Hope Ministries, Rose said she has been able to improve her education, grow closer to God and take care of her 10­month old daughter, who also resides at Hope Ministries. 
"It's my home," she said of Hope Ministries. "It's my family. They made me feel welcome and accepted me and my daughter from the moment we arrived." 
Another guest from Hope Ministries who identified herself as May shared her story of homelessness. Unlike some stereotypes of homeless 

Purcell 
continued from page 1 

than 30 years, served as majority leader in '-he Tennessee House of Representatives before he became the mayor of Nashville for eight years. 
Although public service is important, some people believe it has become more difficult than ever, Purcell said. 
"It's important to remember it's always been hard," he said. "The fact that it's been hard ought not to discourage you." 
Faith allows public servants to overcome hardships because it gives direction to convictions, Purcell said. 
"It's the thing that carries you though," he s~aid about faith. "It's the thing that holds you up. ·It's the thing that gets you up and allows you to do more." 
Purcell cited scripture pas­sages that have inspired his faith and his work in public 
people, she did not find her­self on the streets because of alcoholism or drug abuse. Her medical condition caused her to lose her job, she said. 
According to May, Hope Ministries helped her to fill out applications for disability pay, which she earned. May said she can now "have hope again." 
A guest from the Center for the Homeless who identified himself as Andrew spoke about his past as a function­ing drug addict who checked into the Center after losing his job in Chicago. With the help of the Center, he has had surgery to replace both of his knees and the opportu­nity to pursue his education. 
Andrew said entering the Center has helped him to mend a strained relationship with his family. 
A man who identified him­self as Marcus was forced to return to the Center for the Homeless for a second time when the recession hit and he lost his job. He is current­ly searching for another job. 
Wolfson focused on ihe problem of poverty in St. Joseph County. 
"In 2007, 23.3 percent of families in St. Joseph County were in poverty," she said. "I am sure this number has increased now that we are in a recession." 
One way to fight poverty is to increase the minimum wage, according to Wolfson. The current national mini­mum wage is $6.55 an hour a figure that will rise to $7.25 in July, she said. 
Although President Barack Obama has a plan to eventu­ally raise the national mini­mum wage to $9.50, recent statistics show this is not enough, she said. 
According to Wolfson, for someone to be self-sufficient in St. Joseph County, they need an hourly wage of $12.90 full time. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
service. 
"Romans says that public servants are but God's ser­vants for the protection of the people," he said. 
He also explained how faith guided his decisions as mayor of Nashville. 
Dame and Harvard, college students are eager to become active in public service. 
"This is exactly the time that you should feel this way," he said. "The opportunities will be there and you will have the opportunity to move 
In 2007, he said that the city of 
Nashville "It's important to 
passed legisla­
remember it's always 
tion making English the been hard . ... The fact 
only language that it's hard out not 
of the 
·to discourage you. " 
Nashville gov­ernment. Yet the city want­Bill Purcell ed to welcome 
director 
international 

'Harvard Institute of 
businesses and 

Politics
people from other cultures, and this law faster ... than any group of young people that lived before." 
He said his visit to Notre Dame has given him hope for the future of public service. 
· "You are engaged," he told students. "As you do community service, as you do public serv­

ice, as you're out there lifting people up, what will that mean? I don't know. But I can't believe it won't have an effect." 


Fallon debuts as 'Late Night' host 
Comedian replaces Conan O'Brien, gets flack from Letterman 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Almost a year after Jimmy Fallon was named new host of NBC's "Late Night," and 10 days after predecessor Conan O'Brien departed, Fallon made his debut Monday. 
Fallon's opening-night guests included Robert De Niro and Justin Timberlake, with Van Morrison as his musical guest. 
An hour earlier on CBS, "Late Show with David Letterman" was kicking off some musical excitement of its own: the first of a full week of performances by the superstar band U2. In an unprecedented weeklong book­ing by "Lat~ Show", U2 is pro­moting its new album, "No Line on the Horizon." 
"It will be interesting to see if they can make it past Wednesday night," Letterman said on Monday's show. 
U2's four members also pitched in for some comedy. Letterman said viewers should­n't get the impression that these are pretty-boy rock 'n' rollers -they're willing to lend a hand if someone needs some help. Then the camera switched to a shot of U2 shoveling snow outside the Ed Sullivan Theater. 
Larry Mullen shoveled while smoking a cigarette, which Letterman noted. 
"I think there's very little dan­ger of them overdoing it," he cracked. 
Later in the show, U2 per­formed its new song "Breathe." 
In his debut monologue, Fallon joked about opening­night jitters with a reference to the weather. 
"New York City was hit with a huge snow storm," he noted, "and I woke ·up this morning and said, 'Please, let it be a snow day!"' 
Fallon, a former cast member of "Saturday Night Live" with several films to his credit, has tapped a longtime "SNL" hand, Michael Shoemaker, to be his producer. A co-producer is Gavin Purcell, who ran "Attack of the Show," the daily Net-cen­tric news hour on cable's G4 channel. 
Lorne Michaels -who used 
to be Fallon's boss on "SNL" ­
continues as "Late Night" exec­
utive producer. 
Other than excerpts from its monologue, the New York­based show, taped Monday afternoon, was not made avail­able to critics before airtime. 
· But details and glimpses of the Fallon era "Late Night" have been shared with viewers on the show's Web site for weeks. 
"I know I'm gonna get reviewed off the first show, as opposed to the first couple of months," Fallon predicted in a recent interview. '"He's no Conan,' or 'He's no Letterman' -I just want that to be said, and put out there. Then view­ers can relax and watch and enjoy." 
Fallon's on-air arrival sets in motion a carefully arranged shift by NBC. O'Brien, who took over "Late Night" from its origi­nal host, Letterman, in 1993, is now devoting full time to ready­ing his version of the Los Angeles-based "Tonight" show, where he will land in June. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
it affecting the more practi­cal side of the policy, [like] the disciplinary procedure and ... the student psyche:" 
Diversity Council Representative Brigitte Githinji said her task force, which focuses on how multi­cultural and international students adjust to campus life, plans to send out a sur­vey over Spring Break to find out how to improve the transition to Notre Dame for these students. 
"[We are] trying to figure out if there is a divide'within the students," Githinji said. 
"We talked about the fact that international students seem to be sectored off into social groups and we wanted to figure out if that is by choice," she said. 
"The big thing that we spent a lot of time on is a calendaring system," said Corry Colonna, rector of Zahm Hall, who reported for the task force on technology and study spaces. 
Colonna said the task force is attempting to meet with agenda.nd.edu to discuss ways of improving the University's calendar sys­tem. 
"We looked at other col­leges and universities' cal­endars to see what we want­ed,'' he said. 
Colonna said his group decided they would like to include a search bar and to make the calendar aestheti­cally pleasing. 
Student body president Bob Reish said the task force on off-campus student rela­tions met with a representa­tive from the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH). 
"ResLife doesn't typically deal with off-campus stu­dents ... There's a very low number of students who go there" for off-campus infor• mation, according to Reish. 
Reish said his task force is looking at the off-campus services offered by other universities. Some of these schools include Boston College, Princeton University and Marquette University, he said. 
"So far a lot of the univer­sities we are looking at do have some sort of off-cam­pus services," Reish said. 
Fr. Jim Lewis, rector of Carroll Hall, pointed out that it is hard to make a compar­ison between Notre Dame and other schools. 
"Notre Dame is, if not unique, nearly so, in terms of our on-campus housing," Lewis said. 
Reish ended the meeting by announcing there are only four more CLC meetings scheduled for the rest of the semester. He suggested it may be necessary to sched­ule more meetings. 
"I want to encourage all of us to work really efficiently," he said. "We just have to make sure we're meeting our mark here." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Bush terror memos released by Obama 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Obama administration threw open the curtain on years of Bush-era secrets Monday, revealing anti-ter­ror memos that claimed exceptional search-and­seizure powers ' and divulging that the CIA destroyed nearly 100 video­tapes of interrogations and other treatment of terror su.spects. 
The Justice Department released nine legal opinions showing that, following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Bush adminis­tration determined that cer­tain constitutional rights would not apply during the coming fight. Within two weeks, government lawyers were already discussing ways to wiretap U.S. con­versations without war­rants. 
The Bush administration eventually abandoned many of the legal conclusions, but the documents themselves had been closely held. By releasing them, President Barack Obama continued a house-cleaning of the previ­ous administration's most contentious policies. 
"Too often over the past decade, the fight against terrorism has been viewed as a zero-sum battle with our civil liberties," Attorney General Eric Holder said in a speech a few hours before the documents were released. "Not only is that school of thought misguid­ed, I fear that in actuality it does more harm than good." 
The Obama administration also. acknowledged in court documents Monday that the CIA destroyed 92 videos involving· terror suspects, including interrogations ­far more than had been known. Congressional Democrats and other critics have charged that some of the harsh interrogation techniques amounted to tor­ture, a contention President George W. Bush and other Bush officials rejected. 
The new administration pledged on Monday to begin turning over documents related to the videos to a federal judge and to make as much information public as possible. 
The legal memos written by the Bush administration's Office of Legal Counsel show a government grappling with how to wage war on terrorism in a fast-changing world. The conclusion, reit­erated in page after page of documents, was that the president had broad author­ity to set aside constitution­al rights. 

Fourth Amendment pro­tections against unwarrant­ed search and seizure, for instance, did not apply in the United States as long as the president was combat­ting terrorism, the Justice Department said in an Oct. 23, 2001, memo. 
could deter them. When Purcell vetoed the legislation, he said a Catholic Bishop as well as Protestant and Jewish leaders joined him in City. Hall. 
Purcell said that according to polls conducted by Notre 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 6,763.29 -299.64 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
323 59 3,544 405,840,308 


NASDAQ 1 322.85 -54.99 
,::.,,,,,,,.,.,.,····· ·!t-~==· :,·' .::··:··"~~-=~·:·=«m::::~:::::J::~~:::::::;::~~~~"''~~,;~~~:::========·=::'·<·.
NYSE ,, 4,360.98~)¥Z.S~i~$ S&P 500 700.82 -34.27 NIKKEI'(TokyO) 71204.89 · ~7S:'J.fi' FTSE 100 (London) 3,625.83 -204.26 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CffiGROUP INC (C) ·20.00 -0.30 1.20 BK OF At-1ERICA (SAC) ·8.10 -0.32 3.63 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) ·4.50 -3,33 70.60 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -10.69 -0.91 7.60 
Treasuries 

lO·YEAR NOTE -4.01 -0.122 2.919 13-WEEK BILL -8.00 -o.020 0.230 30-YEAR BOND ·1.96 -0.073 3.649 5·YEAR NOTE -7.92· ·0.160 1.860 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -4.61 40.15 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) ·2.50 940.00 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.73 79.10 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.3350 EURO 1.2594 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2887 BRffiSH POUND 1.4054 
IN BRIEF 
Insurance giant reveals large losses 
WASHINGTON -A new definition of desper­ate times: Even as the government threw a stunning new $30 billion lifeline to American International Group on Monday, the belea­guered insurance giant confirmed it had lost more than twice that much, $62 billion, in a single three-month period. 
And many more billions of federal dollars are almost sure to be shoveled into the compa­ny for a simple reason: Officials fear its col­lapse would cripple financial markets in the 
U.S. and around the world. 
The source of trouble for AIG, which has 74 million customers worldwide and operations in more than 130 countries, is its business insuring mortgage-backed securities and other debt against default. That business imploded once the credit crisis struck with force. 
Analysts: Rebound still months away 
WASHINGTON -Consumer spending and incomes rose more than expected at the start of the year, but the gains were seen as fleeting in light of the recession and the waves of layoffs battering Americans. 
Two other reports Monday on manufac­turing and construction also showed little reason for optimism. Analysts said any start to an economic rebound is at best months away, with the most pessimistic predicting a sustained recovery won't begin until next year. 
Wall Street plunged anew after a sober­ing earnings report from American International Group showed the insurance giant lost $61.7 billion in the fourth quar­ter, the biggest quarterly loss in U.S. cor­porate history. In response, the govern­ment unveiled a revamped rescue package that will provide AIG with another $30 bil­lion in taxpayer money if needed. 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell below 7,000 for the first time in 11 years. The credit crisis and recession have slashed more than half of the Dow's value since it hit a record-high over 14,000 in October 2007. The Dow lost nearly 300 points to 6,763.29. 


Dow plummets to finish below 7,000 
Monday's finish at 6,763 the lowest since May 1997; S&P hovers near 700 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -A relent­less sell-off in the stock market Monday blew through barriers that would have been unthink­able just weeks ago, and investors warned there was no reason to believe buyers will return any­time soon. 
The Dow Jones industri­al average plummeted below 7,000 at the open­ing bell and kept driving lower all day, finishing at 6,763 -a loss of nearly 300 points. Each of the 30 stocks in the index lost value for the day. 
And the Sta,ndard & Poor's 500 stock index, a much broader measure of the market's health, dipped below the psycho­logically important 700 level before closing just above it. It hadn't traded below 700 since October 1996. 
Investors were worried anew about the stability of the financial system after insurer American International Group post­ed a staggering $62 bil­lion loss for the fourth quarter, the biggest in 
U.S. corporate history ­and accepted an expand­ed bailout from the gov­ernment. 
But beyond daily head­lines, Wall Street seems to have given up the Its last close below warns letting it fail would per share. HSBC lost 19 search for a reason to 7,000 was May 1, 1997-cripple the very world percent. Bank of America believe that the worst is a time when the market financial system, will get lost 8 percent. over and the time is ripe was barreling to one another $30 billion in While the root of the to buy again. record high after another loans on top of the $150 problem for the financial 
"As bad as things are, because of the boom in billion already invested fir{lls is the bad bets they they can still get worse, technology stocks, but by the government. made on mortgages and and get a lot worse," said often suffered big drops HSBC PLC, Europe's mortgage-backed securi­Bill Strazzullo, chief mar­as investors worried largest bank by market ties, now the recession is ket strategist for Bell about inflation and rising value, said it needs to exacerbating their prob­Curve Trading, who said interest rates. raise about $18 billion, lems, forcing job cuts. he believes the Dow This time around, Wall reported a 70 percent "The economy definitely might fall to 5,000 and Street analysts seem to drop in earnings for last has deteriorated since the S&P to 500. believe that a stock mar­year, and announced November," said Sean 
The Dow's descent has ket recovery will first plans to scale back U.S. Simko, head of fixed been breathtaking. It took require signs of health lending and cut 6,100 income management at only 14 trading sessions among financial compa­jobs. SEI Investments. "It's just for the average to fall nies, and on Monday The banking sector the fact that we haven't from above 8,000 to those signs seemed fur­helped drive the market seen signs of improving below 7 ,000. For the year, ther away than ever. lower. Citigroup stock lost or stabilizing, per se, the Dow has lost 23 per­AIG, whose reach is so 20 percent of its value which is adding to the cent of its value. vast that the government and fell to a paltry $1.20 morass of the market." 


Madoff looks to keep millions in assets 
Associated Press Madoff and lawyer Ira Sorkin said, brought by the SEC against Madoff. 
aecording to the papers. Trustee Irving H. Picard has said 
NEW YORK -Bernard Madoff is Sorkin declined to comment Monday. that nearly $950 million in eash and seeking to keep a $7 . million A court-appointed trustee overseeing securities has been recovered for Manhattan penthouse and an addition­the liquidation of Madoffs assets has investors so far. al $62 million in assets, saying they said the apartment and other property The 70-year-old former Nasdaq are unrelated to the fraud that author­used to secure bail was off limits for ehairman has been confined to the ities say cost victims more than $50 now. But if there's a conviction, those Manhattan apartment, purchased in billion. assets and possibly property of Madoff 1984, under house arrest since early 
In court papers flied Monday in U.S. "insiders" could be seized to help pay Deeember. Distriet Court in Manhattan, Madoff claims by alleged victims, which so far He was arrested and charged with and his lawyer claim the apartment, total about $1 billion. securities fraud after authorities said $45 million in municipal bonds and "We are looking at every member of in eourt papers that he confessed to his $17 million more in a separate aceount the Madoff family," David Sheen, an sons that he had carried out a giant all belong to Madoff's wife, Ruth. attorney representing the trustee, said Ponzi scheme for years, using new 
The bonds in an account held by reeently regarding the personal prop­money from investors to pay off early Ruth Madoff at COHMAD Securities erty. investors while bogus statements Corp. and about $17 million held by The information was contained in an claimed consistent investment her in a Wachovia Bank aceount "are order of eonsent asking a judge to gains."They're going to have to eut unrelated to the alleged Madoff fraud grant the federal government authority their budgets significantly," _said Mark and only Ruth Madoff has a beneficial to seek forfeiture of assets involveo in Vitner, senior economist and managing interest in these assets," Bernard any fraud. It was filed in a case director at Waehovia. 
TH-E OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
A nation of cowards 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notr< Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jenn Merz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Karie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDIT~R: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
{574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
• SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
{574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independenr, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe studenrs ofrhe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, indurling adverrisemenrs, is nor governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeirher insriturion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion <;>f rhe majoriry of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The O~r {USPS 599 24000} b publ~l1cd Munday thi'Qugh Ftiday o:cepr during aam .md vaCI.tion period~ A s.uhscription to 1nc Obsctver is $100 for one academic year; $)') for one semc:srcr. 
The Observtt is publish<:d at: POSTMASTER 021 S<>uth Dining Hail Send addrcs.~ corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 TheOOO:n<er 
Periodical postage paid at None Dame P.O. Box Tl9 and additional mailing offices. 014 South Di.Oing Halt 
Nmte D~tme, lN 46556-0779 

The O~rver is a member ofthe Assodated Press. All teproduoion righu an: reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Liz Harter Alex Barker Robert Singer .Meaghan Veselik Liz O'Donnell Alex West 
Graphics Scene Madeline Nies Jess Shaffer 
Viewpoint 
Lauren 
Brauweiler 
"Though this nation has proudly thought of itself as an ethnic melting pot, in things racial we have always been and continue to be, in too many ways, essentially a nation of cow­ards ... if we are to make progress in this area we must feel com­fortable enough with one anoth­er, and tolerant enough of each other, to have frank conversa­tions about the racial matters that continue to divide us." 
These words were spoken by our first black attor­ney general, Eric Holder, who was nominated for the position by our first black president, Barack Obama. 
That same day, a cartoon was pub­lished in the New York Post in refer­ence to the recent mauling of a Connecticut woman by her friend's pet chimpanzee, which was shot and killed by the police. The cartoon depicts two police officers, one of whom is holding a smoking gun over a dead chimpanzee while the other states, "They'll have to find someone else to write the next stimulus bill." 
Immediately AI Sharpton, l1anked by his Political Correctness Task Foree in the guise of a swarm of out­raged protestors, demanded an apolo­gy from the Post for publishing the inflammatory cartoon. Why? Because according to Sharpton's warped logic, the artist had leveled a racist attack on Obama by comparing him to a crazed chimpanzee. Sharpton alluded to the historic practice of using refer­ences to chimpanzees as racial epi­thets against blacks, as well as the assertion that the stimulus bill repre­sents Obama's first legislative victory and has thus become "synonymous" with him, in order to draw this eon-nection. 

First of all, as anyone who is famil­
iar with our government's legislative 
process (the number of which I'm 
beginning to believe is infinitely 
small) knows, congressmen are the 
only ones who have the authority to 
write legislation. Secondly, former 
President George W. Bush was com­
pared to a chimp countless times dur­
ing and after his tenure in office, and 
Sharpton didn't bother to come to his 
defense. or course this was because 
Bush is not black, but clearly there is 
a doubln standard at work hern. 
Now I recognize insults toward 
black Americans involving monkeys 
and apes are particularly degrading 
and hurtful given their historical eon­
notation. If Scan Dclonas (the Post's 
cartoonist~ had meant to characterize 
blacks or Obama as chimpanzees, I 
could sympathize with those who 
might take offense (even though I 
might also be tempted to tell thorn to 
chill out, since I have personally 
found that taking offense to insulting 
accusations only adds credit to them). 
But given the lack of raeist intent, in 
addition to the fact the prnsidcnt can­
not author legislation, I belinve that 
Sharpton's rhetoric is patently 
absurd. Furthermore, I believe his 
hypersensitivity to alleged racism and 
the victim mentality it fosters among 
black Americans in this country lie at 
the heart of our attorney general's 
accusations. 

As a citizen of this great "Cowardly 
Nation," I would like to say I agree 
with Holder's claim: We are a nation 
of cowards. But not for the same rea­
sons he would suggest. 

Since the end of the Civil War, our 
nation has freed thousands of black 
slaves, recognized a person's right to 
vote regardless of color and abolished 
racial segregation. We have embraced 
black culture in countless ways. We 
have recognized the vital contribu­
tions of black musicians, black scien­
tists, black athletes, black authors -and black religious leaders. We have elected black congressmen, black senators and black governors; we 
have nominated black cabinet mem­bers and a black Supreme Court jus­tice; and this past year, we have 
elected a black man to lead our coun­try as president. In light ilf these actions, we have not been a nation of 
cowards. 
Yet since the dawning of the era of political correctness in the 1990s, America has been forced to become a nation of cowards. We are afraid to speak frankly about our views on race in fear .of being labeled a racist. We are afraid to associate with those of the other race because we don't want to be called a race-traitor (especially people on the political right. Think of Condoleeza Rice and Michael Steele). We cannot be comfortable around one another because people like Sharpton may come knocking down our doors, demanding an apology for something we nevor meant to be offensive. 
If we are to return to the days before cowardice became king, Sharpton and his followers must be willing 1o move beyond the tempta­tion to use the victim card whenever the conversation turns to race. More importantly, we must view one anoth­er, not simply as members of a cer­tain group or race, but as individual human beings. 
Attorney General Holder, in spite of my alleged cowardice, I am publish­ing these views regardless of what accusations of racism and bigotry may be hurled my .way. I hope this instills you with faith in the capacity of Americans to break through the boundaries of political correctness that have stifled conversation in the past two decades and take part in open, honest discussions of race. 
Christie Pesavento is spending this semester in Washington, D.C. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for Spring Break? 
Going home Staying here Partying somewhere safe Taking my chances in Mexico 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The worst -perhaps the only sin -pas­sion can commit, is to be joyless. " 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tim_e really is now 
In Dr. Greene's thought-provoking article published on Wednesday, he listed a number of abominations affecting African-Americans since the beginning of our country. The list is, unfortunately, quite long and humiliating. But I think that Dr. Greene's letter forgot the most humiliat­ing abhorrence to ever disgrace the history of race in America. The thing he forgets took 14 million African American lives, averaging out to be 1,200 per day. It's an event that goes against everything that Dr. Greene holds to be true about the American ideal -opportunity for all and equality. It's a perversion that U.S. presidents from Johnson to Obama "condoned and supported-even if they only looked the other way." And it's still happening. 
I'm not sure if Dr. Greene forgot that 1,200 African Americans are taken daily by abortion, or if that fact was edited out of his article. I hope the latter, but suspect the former. If he wants to speak honestly about race, let's talk about how today, according to the CDC (where all of these facts have been gathered), for every 100 live African American births, there are 49.5 aborted African American children. Let's talk about how more abortion clinics exist in minority areas than in white areas. The slave trade was a despicable example of human beings becoming commodities. But the abortion industry today, which nets a profit of many hundreds of millions of dol­lars per year, does exactly that. Taking the average price of an abortion at $300, $4.2 billion has been gained by the abortion of African Americans since 1971. 
With this information, I must ask, what is the bigger abomination? Predatory lending? Limited numbers of blacks getting GI bills? Or genocide for profit? Margaret Sanger, the founder of Planned Parenthood, once stated, "Colored people are like human weeds and are to be exterminated." Is it any coincidence, then, that Planned Parenthood (a large recipient of government funds) alone performs 482,000 abortions on blacks per year? Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi stated in an interview just one month ago that "if we can rapidly reduce the number of poor people through abortion, that's a net gain for feder­al and state budgets, and a fast track to economic recov­ery. Every poor baby prevented is like money in the bank." Considering that minorities make up dispropor­tionate numbers of the poor, are we really going to con­done a system which reduc~s the number of the poor just so our state budgets have more money? Genocide should never be a piece of national policy. Minorities and minor­ity rights are being sold for money, in a far more heinous and hidden system than slave traders created. 
And so yes, Dr. Greene, we "cannot distance ourselves from a history of slavery of a different name." When will we have an honest conversation about race? When will we all face the fact that our government agencie-s have been complicit in creating inequality and injustice in not just housing, education, and health care, but existence as well? The time is now, indeed. 
Nathan loyd senior Keough Mar.2 

Festival not dead 
In 2004, I was among a small group of faculty, students and alumni who founded the first Notre Dame Queer Film Festival. Personally, I pitched the Festival to five academic departments and had one-on-one meetings with then-University President Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy, then-provost Dr. Nathan Hatch and Fr. Mark Poorman. By the end of the Festival, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh gave us his blessing. For the following two years, I 'continued to be one of the Festival organizers and helped pro­gram the films and guests. Currently, I am the secretary of the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GALA ND/SMC). 
Tom O'Neil's Feb. 16th letter titled "How Notre Dame sneakily killed off the Queer Film Festival" gave an apt description of University President Fr. John Jenkin's efforts to "contain" and limit the Queer Film Festival. Mainly, the Jenkins team sought to improve the University's public relations by not shutting down the Film Festival, just putting a lot of red tape around it. In turn, this would satisfy disgruntled alumni (and bishops) while at the same time not making the front page of The New York Times for being discriminatory. Iro_nically, his first move -to make us remove the word "queer" from the title -stripped the Festival of its academic merit. This is because "queer" is what Academia calls gay and lesbian studies. Colleges that provide degrees in this discipline include Yale University, the University of Maryland, University of California, Berkeley, UCLA, California State University Northridge and DePaul University, to name a few. 
Throughout all this, however, it is important to note that several key people continued to try to make the Film Festival continue. The department of Film, Television, and Theater, for instance, remained supportive and helpful despite intense pressure from the administration to do otherwise. And, while there is red tape around the Queer Film Festival, its coffin is far from being nailed shut. The Festival was not shut down. That is worth repeating: the Festival was not shut down. 
Because of this, the real power remains in all of you -the student body. And you can do it, because Father Jenkins gave you permission to in his 2006 ruling, saying that he was "very determined that we not suppress speech on this campus." How can such an endeavor be accomplished agaJ.n? We put together the first Queer Film Festival by working within the parameters of the University. The first step is to work with the departments to construct a mission statement that is both pragmatic and inspirational. Use that as your springboard to move forward. GALA ND/SMC is here to help along the way. Just remember: the festival can happen again, but only by your initiatives. Back in 1978, Harvey Milk said: "I hope that every professional gay will say 'enough', come forward and tell everybody, wear a sign, let the world know. Maybe that will help." If the Notre Dame community took Milks advice to heart, just imagine how many signs there would be inside and surrounding the Golden Dome. 
~iam Dacey alum class of'04 Feb. 25 
Don't starve Grandma 
I disagree with Mr. Hagan's interpretation of the 2007 CDF statement on artificial nutrition and hydration. He states in his Feb. 16 article titled "Health care purpose" that the denial of nutrition and hydration is permissible if a patient has reached the terminal stage of an illness where treat­ment is ineffective. "Treatment" in these cases refers to extraordinary care (such as chemotherapy), which any patient may refuse, terminal or otherwise. The CDF document asserts that people in per­sistent vegetative states must receive nutrition and hydration (ordinary care) precisely because they are people with fundamental human dignity. Unless the terminally ill lack fundamental human dig­nity (they-don't), this implies that they, too, must receive nutrition and hydration, and denial thereof is euthanasia. The only exception stated or implied in this document is in the caSe where this care does not "accomplish its proper finality," or in other words, the body cannot absorb the nourish­ment. In this case (as Professor Rice notes), the removal of artificial nourishment is not the cause of death. This is a stark contrast to the starvation of a patient who has received a terminal diagnosis and would continue to live for months or years with nutrition and hydration. 
Phillip Little grad student O'Hara Grace Feb. 16 

A tnisunderstanding, indeed 
In response to Tommy Maranges' not­so-recent Viewpoint "A Clear Misunderstanding" (Feb. 19), I must offer some words of advice to Mr. Maranges. One who prides himself on the ability to fashion language (superfluous though it may be) into logical arguments -as Mr. Maranges appears to be -should know that an argument's closing remark is sup­posed to be the proverbial "nail in the coffm," a verbal stab that erases all doubt of the argument's validity from the audi­ence. Instead of adhering to this rule, however, Mr. Maranges exposed a gaping hole in his thought process by saying that "we don't need to 'balance the Catholic nature of this institution' with anything. Catholic is a designation from which everything else should flow, not one against which everything else must bal­ance." 
While Catholicism is a characteristic inseparable from the University of Notre Dame itself, it is certainly not the only one that warrants attention. In fact, one of these other aspects is revealed simply by examining the name of this institution: we are at a site of education. This education is not to be limited to memorizing theo­rems from math textbooks and studying classic works of literature, but must extend to learning from our fellow Irish. 
Coming from a high school community that prides itself on strong relationships between culturally diverse groups, I have been witness to this on a very personal level. The greatest lessons I learned in high school were not taught by professors and could not be tested by The College Board. My moments of greatest learning were in being able to understand and relate to others whose lifestyles I had not (and likely would never) experienced firsthand. 
I agree with Mr. Maranges on one point. We don't need to balance the Catholic nature of this institution. This University would not exist if its founders did not believe that education and Catholicism could interact harmoniously. However, this is as much an institution of education as it is a vessel of Catholicism. Since one of the most important forms of learning comes from being able to interact with those about whom you know very little, by depriving its students of the opportuni­ty to experience homosexual culture in a way that they probably haven't before, the University is failing to provide us a true education, thus not fulfilling one of its greatest obligations. 
There is more than enough prejudice and ignorance in the world. We don't need more to arise from failing to recog­nize that Catholic schools are not simply glorified monasteries, but institutions of a human education 
Jeremy Lamb freshman Knorr Feb. 26 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
Sage Advice• • • 
By SZYMON RYZNER Scene Writer 
a highlight of The Observer. I have been year the annual Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Viewpoint, yet here we ~re without any subst~tial ~p§ttY ..011. eitller.side,Letme be the fitst to saY: SairifMary's suckS~ · · · · 
ll.Don't pick at it, or it will never heal. 
--~m\i®ililiii®l®iik~i~iiiii®'f . Perhaps l could go on, but I have togocl.q~orkfor the major that I wonder about selecting quite frmiilently. My time at Notre Dame has been exGell,ent, and I hope you do whatever you can to live interestingly. I wish you all many mistakes from which to learn, and remember that you will never be around as many different, unique and interesting people as you will have been in college. Take advantage of that. 
Contact Szymon Rzyner at srzyner@nd.edu 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scer1e Editor 
I walked into The Observer office as a freshman on a whim; I hadn't worked fDr the paper at my high school and was simply trying it on for size. Four years later, working for Scene definitely numbers among some of best parts of my Notre Dame experience -chiefly when it comes to writing my beloved Dining Hall Dish column. 
Still, I am going to surmise that most of you out there are at best vaguely interested in my good-byes. So I will combine my adieus and reminiscences with something more proactive. Recorded below are the best parts about being part of The Observer -and especially the Scene -staff. Hopefully all of you out there who aren't graduating along with me will consider joining the team. 
Anyone who works at The Observer gains certain benefits. First, there is the knowledge that a lot of the campus is actually reading what you write. That Observer lying on a dining hall table or stacked in LaFortune is going out with a little bit of you in it. Every weekday you get the chance to let everyone at the University know what is going on, or at least enter­tain them for awhile. There is even that feeling that the audience out there might actually care. Trust me: However trivial it might seem there is nothing like the first time you make it onto the top-live most-popular articles on The Observer Web site or g.et your first e­mail -negative or positive -in response to something you wrote. (Even sweeter? A Viewpoint letter or, dare I say it, a Viewpoint controversy.) 
Beyond that, then there is that special Observer fami­ly you come to know. The only people who understand what it means to write an article at the last minute, or be up to far too early finishing the layout for the next morning. You're among the few that associate South Dining Hall with something other than food and are all more than a bit proud to see that freshly printed Observer as you walk to class. 
Now, why is Scene so special? Well first, it's all about what you get to cover. How would you like it to have lin. olTidal, productive excuse to sit in a movie theater or watch T.V.? Or get that special VIP feeling when you show up at the DPAC to pick up your complimentary tickets'? Nowhere else on campus can you wax poetic about pop culture with such legitimacy. 
Above all, Seene gives you the most opportunities to be creative. I've had to come up with articles about everything from politics, to the Wii, to Hussian ballet companies, to how to survive a South Bend winter. Or best yet, how to survive the dining hall. I've reviewed plays in a language l don't know a word of and gotten to peruse the best of the promotional material the entertainment industry decides to send us. Working for Scene gives you a glimpse into the way creativity and art inlluence our culture. 
So I hope this has inspired you to think about joining The Observer. Come polish up your writing, find the best excuse in the world to do something other than homework and, above all, have fun. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
page 11 

and Staff Sore 
By MARK WITTE Assistant Scene Ediwr 
I have learned a number many rewards from my editor in the Scene r~.,.,,rtm. flying solo on the job I of South Dining Hall only the hour, but by the page. netted less than $3 an asking about little details, from a smiling Tae week. 
I have also learned that decent hour is to treat the Chief with the utmost a bad mood because your Thus, I have learned the times such decorum Managing Editor that you anf.hifilnend fact an important state. 
Writing for The Observer sion for movies. Posing as excuse to skip off during the for free. Better yet, the job with campus what I love the breathtakingly ua,uuL.ut)'; Blood" or merely my vu'm"o"'" 
Even more rewarding will never forget the dress watched, nay, experienced. third lloor of Washington by the intensity of the dark . before my eyes. Thank you Stephen, 
Writing for The Observer also allowed me a wimp. Last year I was convinced by the Scene piece about Bengal Bouts training. I took the opportunity to cry like a baby about the rigorous training endured by the boxers while shamelessly plugging the program's altruistic purpose. 
Finally, I have learned that no one in the world is as patient as the Scene .Editor. This I most certainly learned from experience as this year'$ prodigal,son)i;lJ; · thank you Analise. Than},;you for <lliX?~.~ar .· ... ·.· .. for your never-ending pa:tieJi¢~. Thank Y9.'\l: for not UU.M.& when I misspelled your name: Thank you forriotfrring me missed a semester's worth of meetings ahd thank you for·""'''n~·­ing mo despite my avoidance of the weekly budget like it was South Dining Hall's pizza. 
Thank you to the Graphics girl for adjusting to my odd hours. Thank you to the other Assistant Scene Editors for weathering my tardy articles or lack thereof. Thank you to Chris Hine and all the Ed Board members whose dedication to the paper is sur­passed by none. And finally, thank you to Jay Fitzpatrick for inspiring me to join The Observer staff in the fall of 2007. You introduced and welcomed me to a whole new world and I am indebted (unfortunately) to you. 
I will soon say goodbye to the basement of South Dining Hall, its wondrous memories, profusion of expletives and late night Papa John's. It will be with a heavy heart and an empty wallet that I walk away, but for those actually dedicated to the Scene department, my departure will be echoed by a good measure of "Good Riddance!" 
Contact Matk Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
Editor to start out by saying that I'm just doing this because I want to be a edi»pletetvunoriginallemming. I love conformity. In fact, I don tan Ugg boots, ND and a black Northface as I write. Just to remind myself that I am complete-unique. I would like to announce this on a campus-wide scale. This is the . of the exposure I get as the rising Scene Editor and a Scene writer; who doesn't want to know 25 facts all about me? My Facebook friends enough. Jess Shaffer. My whole name is Jessica Shaffer. Shocker, I know. Jlifiortunl'l.telly, Jess is not my alter-ego, it is merely my preferred name. a Scene writer. Also surprising, I'm sure you never would have guessed looking at the top of the page. no qualms bragging about Scene; it's fun, .colorful, picturesque glory the Observer, clearly solidifYing it as the best section. Sure lot<> of people interested in that thing called ND football and therefore turn to the sportier And I guess some people are attracted to "real news." But really You tube movies and music are about as real as it gets (unless you are on a boat, like . We're the section everyone likes or at least checks out for pretty 
a lovely Spring Break in the sun, I will be spending hour!" p.pon hOurs fu baserner1t of South Dining Hall. Not.in Grah-n-Go, but in the jonrtialism cave~ BU.tl will be consoled by a new, shiny nameplate and an updated byline. 
5.1 love the smell of newspaper in the morning. Crack an Observer, Crack a smile. 
6.1 pick up Analise Lipari's sloppy seconds; refer the heinous breakup she had 
Scene in yesterday's paper. l get to be the new peanutbutter to &,ene's jelly. right, after Spring Break, I'm the new editor.J~>be spending time consul­
section's broken heart. .··•··· ..••.·.·•·••••· ..
have a feeling that about now, you are questionmg mysanity and leadership 
capability. S.At this point, hopefully you will have detected my poor sense of sarcasm. 9/ I have a mental list of bad ideas for inside colunills. 
Bad idea number one is a 25 things . · 
11. Number 2 is a proclamation that B s\;tperhero. Oh wait, already did that. .> .>. .··• .• ..·•••••· 
12. 
Number 3 is an epic all about Saint Mary's ~g•. writtet1inhexan1eter. 

13. 
My list of bad ideas for inside columns getS shorter every timeJ have to write 


inside column and am forced to u~e a bad idea, l~Jdijga "good ideabrain~i.orm­ing." . 
14. 
I hate lists inside lists. 

15. 
These 25 things ate mak,ingriie realizemyillsignifi(;anch and pecUliarities 

16. 
I think self-narrations are obnoxious. . 



H. One of my initiatives as Sci.)rie Editor is to allow students to submit "FML" stories for "FML F " I jusf~tl.ple up with this tOf}ay. 
18. 
I really wis •.. •.... e.woUld ?toP wearing whit() leggings, L¢Jg'ghigs enough to pull off. :wt'ij.te. ~ .diffi.cillt as a pant.. Do~~t try it at hom public) kids. .· .••••. · · 

19. 
Free stuff, interviews bands and· artists, and ·getting meals, CDs, DVDs, and tickets paid for are perks to myjoh. 

20. They could 
if came and worked for Scene. 
21. 
If you want . 

22. 
I watch 

23. 
That 

24. 
lf To Wear: Notre Dame then1 apart; destroy 




rebuild them as fashion T.his is not copying someone by the 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
MLB 


A-Rod meets with MLB officials, moves forward 
Discusses 2001-03 positive drug tests in meeting, focuses on the World Baseball Classic with Dominican Republic 
A<sociated Press 
JUPITER, Fla. Alex Rodriguez says he's happy to put behind him a meeting with base­ball officials about his use of steroids more than five years ago. 
The New York Yankees slugger reported to the Dominican Republic team Monday and took part in its first workout in prepa­ration for the World Baseball Classic. The prac­tice came a day after Rodriguez 

Rodriguez's ex-wife, Cynthia. He said he sees his children at least once a week. "I wish they were around every day," he said. 
Rodriguez nuzzled 4-year-old Natasha and 10-month-old Ella as cameras clicked and Cynthia watched. She filed for divorce last July, and the sides reached a settlement in September. 
The Dominican team worked out at the spring training com­
plex used by the 
St. Louis 
Cardinals and 

met for two hours with Major League Baseball officials about his  "For me, now the focus is the WBC,"  will play its first exhibition game Tuesday against Florida.  
positive drug tests in 2001-03 while  Alex Rodriguez  Rodriguez arrived 31f2  
with  the  Texas  New York Yankees  hours before the  
Rangers. "It's really good to get yesterday behind me  early-afternoon practice. He emerged from a Maybach-an  

another one of the big steps," elite German car that sells for Rodriguez said. "For me, now $350,000-driven by his broth­the focus is the WBC." er and carried a New York 
Rodriguez declined to say what Yankees equipment bag into the happened at the meeting, or clubhouse. When a handful of what he expects regarding any fans standing beyond the parking follow-up. lot gate cheered for him, he 
He found a way to take advan­pumped his fist. tage of all the photographers fol­When his former wife and chil­lowing him, though, posing for dren arrived shortly before the pictures with his two daughters workout, Rodriguez greeted before taking the field with his them in the parking lot. Dominican teammates. The chil­The Cardinals stretched on a dren arrived at the practice with practice field as the Dominican team gathered. St. Louis manag­er Tony La Russa said he enjoyed watching the parade of Dominican stars. 
'Tm a baseball fan," La Hussa said. "Pedro Martinez in our clubhouse -that's neat stuff." 
The team also includes David Ortiz, Miguel Tejada, Hanley Hamirez and Jose Reyes. But the biggest star was Hodriguez, whose celebrity has intensified since news of his positive drug tests surfaced last month. 
Martinez said the media have made too much of the story. 
"You guys focus on the bad stuff," he said. "I believe that there are a lot of positive things that you can look at through baseball. You're focusing on the wrong thing. Let go of the other stuff. Come on. Let's play base­ball. That's what we're here for." 
The commissioner's office said Hodriguez was "cooperative" in his interview Sunday with base­ball's Department of Investigations and Labor Relations Department. No fur­ther details were revealed. 
When asked Monday if he's in an image-mending mode, Rodriguez chuckled. 
"I've put myself behind the eight ball, that's for sure," he said. ''I've made mistakes. I feel bad about them. But I'm also looking forward to doing good things -not only playing good baseball, but perhaps being a messenger of the right message for kids in the future to not make the same mistake I made." 

Hodriguez was accompanied at the Tampa meeting by lawyers Jay Reisinger and James E. Sharp. Also present were union general counsel Michael Weiner, MLB vice president of investiga­tions Dan Mullin, MLB executive vice president for labor relations Rob Manfred and senior vice president and general counsel for labor Dan Haleru, according to a person familiar with the meeting. 
The person spoke on condition of anonymity to The Associated Press because he wasn't author­ized to discuss details. 
MLB wanted to learn about security issues invohing a trainer from the Dominican Republic and the cousin the three-time MVP said injected him with a banned substance called "boli." 
Rodriguez and the Dominican Republic will play three pre-tour­nament games against major league teams this week. 
HIGH ScHooL FooTBALL 

C~ach banned from joining in team prayer 

Supreme Court ruling on New Jersey case may add restrictions on religious expressions in other schools 
in schools right now, and in positions of authority, like said he wanted to show conclude that he is continu­
Associated Press 

individuals suffer," said John a coach, have to be extreme­respect for the students ing to endorse religion when 
WASHINGTON -Coach W. Whitehead, president of ly careful about trying to engaged in prayer by bowing he bows his head during the Marcus Borden used to bow The Rutherford Institute, a promote their ideas, or his head silently and drop­pre-meal grace and takes a his head and drop to one civil liberties organization implying that if you don't ping to one knee. knee with his team in the knee when his football team that focuses on First pray, you may not play," The district, Borden locker room while they prayed. But the Supreme Amendment and religious Lynn said. argued, was violating his pray," Fisher said. Court on Monday ended the freedom issues. The high court without free-speech rights by order­Messages left for Borden practice when it refused to But Barry W. Lynn, execu­comment refused to recon­ing him to stop action he and lawyer Ronald Riccio hear the high school coach's tive director of Americans sider the 3rd U.S. Circuit called secular signs of were not immediately appeal of a school district United for Separation of Court of Appeals' decision respect. After the ban, the returned Monday. ban on employees joining a Church and State, said some upholding the ban. coach stood at attention for "With teachers and stu­student-led prayer. parents had complained The district established the the remainder of the season dents, individual expressions 
The decision on the case about Borden leading ban in 2005 after parents while the students prayed. are being limited. There's from New Jersey could add prayers before the East complained about Borden, Judge D. Michael Fisher, just a concept out there that another restriction on prayer Brunswick, N.J., school dis­coach at East Brunswick writing for the Philadelphia religion doesn't belong in in schools, advocates said. trict ordered him to stop and High School since 1983, appeals court, said Borden's schools," said Whitehead, 
"We've become so political­banned all staff members sometimes leading prayers at past action of leading the whose group acted as co­ly correct in terms of how we from joining in student-led the Friday afternoon team prayers made his head-bow­counsel for Borden. He said deal with religion that it's prayer. \>asta dinner or in the locker ing seem inappropriate. "A he does not know what being pretty severely limited "The bottom line is people room before games. Borden reasonable observer would Borden would do now. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the me of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with physical disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions avail­able for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love chil­dren. June 14 through August 9. Salary, room & board, and experience of lije­time provided. Call or write for applica­tion and infonnation. Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O. Box310, Big Bay, Ml 49808, (906) 345-9314, e-mail BayCiilfHC@aol.com. Visit us at www.baydiff.org 

PAID INTERNSHIP OFFERS CHANCE FOR NYC JOB. Ever want­ed to work in New York City? ~ you get a job with us on campus now, that could happen this summer! We are looking for a gregarious, independent and resourceful undergraduate student for a paid 8-week campus internship this semester. k involves designing and implementing a marketng plan to get your campus to participate in UniversityJunction.com, a free network that helps students achieve academic success. ~ interested, please fill out the following information and submit to careers@universityjunction.com! 
Visit www.UniversityJunction.com. NAME, EMAIL, PHONE, SCHOOL, MAJOR, GRADUATION DATE, ABOUT YOU: Housing status (on or off campus), Top 3 favorite websites. 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 10-month leases. Biuegoldrentals.com 4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 
574-250-7653. 

Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 
2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. 
Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
1-3BR 

Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, frtness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. 
Preleasing for August. 

Call574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYElTE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5BATHS. FREE INTERNET. 
NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWWKRAMERHOUSES.COM 


PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. ~you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Rrth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant StudentshOffice of Student Affairs web­site at: osa:nd.edu/health-safety/assis­tance-for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assauked, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assauk at: httpJ/osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assault/ 




OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVttts WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL 

NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team  points  record  
1  Connecticut (67)  1,792  21·2  
2  North Ca rollna (3)  1,678  25·3  
3  Pitlsburgh (1)  1,612  26-3  
4  ·  Oklahoma  1,576  26-3  
s  Memphis (1)  1,543  26-3  
6  Louisville  1,462  23·5  
7  Duke  1,340  24·5  
8  Michigan State  1,302  23·5  
9  Kansas  1,190  24-5  
10  Wake Forest  1,158  22-5  
11  Villanova  913  23-6  
12  LSU  894  25-4  
13  Marquette  860  23·6  
14  Gonzaga  837  23-5  
15  Missouri  795  24-5  
16  Washington  704  22-7  
17  Xavier  629  23-5  
18  Clemson  564  22-6  
19  Purdue  545  2N  
20  UCLA  497  22-7  
21  Arizona State  347  21-7  
22  Butler  302  25-4  
23  Illinois  287  23-7  
24  Flordla State  272  22·7  
25  Syracuse  99  21-8  


NCAA Women's Basketball 
AP Top 25 

team  points  
1  Connecticut {45)  1125  
2  Stanford  1043  
3  Oklahoma  999  
4  Maryland  971  
5  Baylor  927  
6  Auburn  915  
7  Louisville  887  
8  Duke  806  
9  Calilornia  743  
10  TexasA&M  731  
11  North Carolina  710  
12  Florida State  603  
12  Ohio State  603  
14  PIHsburgh  434  
15  Texas  408  
16  Xavier  363  
17  South Dakota Stale  324  
18  Arizona Slate  307  
19  Tennessee  302  
20  NOTRE DAME  291  
21  Florida  268  
22  Vanderbilt  217  
23  Iowa State  212  
24  Virginia  194  
25  Bowling Green  74  

record 
29·1t 
24~4 
25-2 25·4 23-4 27·2 
26~3 
24•4 
23-4• 
22-5 25·5 24,.& 
24~5 
21,.& 20·8 25-5 27·2 2H 
20~ 
21·7 
2U 
21-i 21-7 22·8 25•.2 


Nike/lnside Lacrosse Men's Media Poll 
team record 

1 Virginia (13) 5-D 2 Syracuse 2-1 3 North Carolina 5-D 4 .Cornell 2-D s· Princeton 2-D 6 Maryland 3-1 7 NOTRE DAME 3~tl 8 UMBC 3-8 9 Johns Hopkins H 10 Hofstra 2-tl 11 Georgetown 1-1 12 Harvard 2-tl 

around the dial 
NCAA Basketball 
No. 8 Michigan State at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
Pittsburgh at Tampa Bay 
7:30 p.m., Versus 


Associated Press 

CLEARWATER, Fla. ­The Coast Guard on Monday narrowed the search area for two NFL players and a third man missing since a weekend fishing trip off the Florida Gulf Coast after crews res­cued a fourth man clinging to their capsized boat. 
Survivor Nick Schuyler, a former University of South Florida player, told res­cuers that the boat the four friends were aboard was anchored when it flipped Saturday evening in rough seas, said Coast Guard Capt. Timothy M. Close. Since then, Schuyler, who was wear­ing a life vest, had been hanging onto the boat found by a Coast Guard cutter 35 miles off Clearwater. 
Schuyler said the other three men got separated from the boat. The 21­footer belongs to Oakland Raiders linebacker Marquis Cooper, who, along with free-agent defensive lineman Corey Smith and former South Florida player William Bleakley, remained miss­ing. 
Schuyler was conscious . but appeared weak as he was being taken off a heli­copter at Tampa General Hospital and placed on a stretcher. His father said his son was in serious but stable condition and that he "looks OK." 

'Tie's got some. cuts and bruises. He's dehydrated," said Stuart Schuyler. 
Schuyler's mother, Marsha Schuyler, said her son told her that he sur­vived by thinking about how he didn't want her to go to his funeraL 
The family's joy at him being found alive was tem­pered by the search for his friends. 
"We still have three men missing, and we're not going to talk too much until we find these guys," said his father, Stuart Schuyler. "We're all pray­ing for them. These guys are all very close friends." 
Coast Guard photos showed Schuyler wearing a yellow jacket and orange life vest and sitting on the hull of the capsized boat as a rescue cutter approached. A helicopter lowered a basket to haul him aboard. The search area is now "substantially smaller," based on where they found the boat and Schuyler, Close said. Searchers had previously covered 16,000 square miles of ocean. 
Smith's family planned to drive to Florida from Richmond, Va., Tuesday, after the snowy weather in the East made getting a flight impossible. 

IN BRIEF Redskins release former 
'Dancing' star Taylor 
WASHINGTON -Jason Taylor will have plenty of time to dance on TV this year. 
The former NFL defensive player of the year's disappointing turn in the nation's capital came to an end Monday when he was cut by the Washington Redskins for refusing to commit to the team's offseason workout program. 
The Redskins wanted to add a workout clause to Taylor's hefty contract, but the 34-year-old defensive end declined. The clause would have required Taylor to take part in 25 days of offseason work­outs. 
The flap is reminiscent of last year, when Taylor clashed with the Miami Dolphins for competing in "Dancing With the Stars" rather than working out with the team in the offseason. Taylor finished sec­ond to Kristi Yamaguchi on the reality television show. 
Lawyer ap~al delays Bonds perJury trial until July 
SAN FRANCISCO -The perjury trial of Barry Bonds has been delayed at least through July and likely beyond, as an appeal filed by prosecutors over key evidence for the trial winds through the legal system. 
Federal court officials on Monday set a schedule for prose­cutors and Bonds' lawyers to sub­mit legal written arguments to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals debating the admissibility of three positive drug tests; so-called dop­ing calendars and other evidence allegedly linking Bonds to steroids use. 
Jury selection for Bonds' trial had been scheduled to start Monday, but was delayed last week after federal prosecutors announced they would appeal U.S. District Court Judge Susan Illston's ruling barring them from showing that evidence to a jury. 
Denver receiver Marshall 
faces possible suspension 
DENVER -Denver Broncos star receiver Brandon Marshall faces a possible suspension even though a disorderly conduct charge stemming from a light with his fiance was dis­missed in an Atlanta court Monday. 
Municipal Judge Clinton Deveaux dismissed the case after Marshall and his fiance, Michi Leshase Nogami-Campbell, both of whom were charged with disorderly con­duct, refused to testify against each other. 
Despite being in the clear from a legal standpoint, the Pro Bowl receiver might still be disciplined for repeated violations of the league's personal conduct code, which gives commissioner Roger Goodell the authority to punish players. 
"We will (still) look into it," league spokesman Greg Aiello told The Associated Press on Monday after the case against Marshall was dropped. 
page 14 The Observer +.SPORTS Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
NBA 

Cavaliers' late comeback leads to win over Heat 
Thunder take down Mavericks without team leaders Durant and Green, Westbrook gets first triple-double 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -This time, the Miami Heat were witnesses, not winners, because of a fourth­quarter comeback. 
LeBron James scored 42 points, Mo Williams got 17 of his 30 in the fourth quarter, and the Cleveland Cavaliers rallied from an 11-point deficit in the final minutes to beat the Heat 107-100 on Monday night. 
Dwyane Wade had 41 points, nine assists and seven rebounds for Miami, strongly following up his 46-point effort two nights earlier against the New York Knicks, when the Heat rallied from 15 points down in the last 9 minutes. 
That was enough to win. This effort wasn't. 
Williams got the comeback going with two huge 3-pointers to spark a 12-0 run that erased what seemed like a comfortable lead midway through the final period. And James sealed it with 42.7 seconds left, blowing past Jamario Moon for a fierce right-handed slam to put the Cavs up 100-95. 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored 12 points and had 15 rebounds for Cleveland, which moved a full game ahead of idle Boston for the top spot in the Eastern Conference. 
Jermaine O'Neal scored 16 points, Mario Chalmers added 15 and Moon had 11 for Miami, which shot 2-for-17 with four turnovers in the final 5% min­utes to waste what was a 91-80 lead. Not to mention wasting the second straight 40-plus scoring effort by Wade, who pulled off that feat for the sec­ond time in his career. 
Cleveland was 11-for-17 from 3-point range -James was 6­for-7 -while Miami was a mere 5-for-18. 
Cleveland won in Atlanta on Sunday night, then boarded what was supposed to be a quick 90-minute flight to Miami. By the time the Cavaliers got to South Florida, the sun was com­ing up and it was time for breakfast. · Terrible weather kept the Cavaliers' plane on an Atlanta runway for 3lfz hours, and the team didn't get to its hotel until 7 a.m. 
"We slept all day," Cleveland coach Mike Brown said. Sure enough, the Cavaliers didn't look the least bit tired. 
By the time the game was 10 minutes old, Cleveland had a 10-point lead. Delonte West cre­ated a five-point early swing by himself, intercepting a pass from Moon to deny Wade an easy transition dunk and then finding James open for a 3­pointer-part of a 14-point first quarter bythe Cavs star. 
Cleveland led 58-55 at the half after another 3-pointer by James a few seconds before the horn. Then Wade really got going. 
He scored 15 points in the third quarter, three less than the Cavaliers managed, and Miami held Cleveland to 33 per­cent shooting in the period to build a cushion. Miami outscored the Cavs 17-5 over the final 5lfz minutes of the quarter, Wade blocked a dunk try by J.J. Hickson with 18.8 seconds left, and the Heat took an 82-76 edge into the fourth period. 

James and Wade seemed like they were having a personal slam-dunk contest in the open­ing minutes of the final period. 
James had a steal and two­handed windmill offering to get Cleveland within seven; Wade came back shortly thereafter with a steal and double-clutch reverse for an 91-80 Miami edge. 
Over? 
Not even closfl. 
Cleveland ran off 12 straight points -the first eight coming in a span of 1:23. with Williams getting a pair of 3-pointers to quickly snap the Cavs right back into the game. And his leaning layup with 4:07 left not only gave Cleveland the lead, it had a crowd that spent most of the night chanting "M-V-P" at Wade actually booing for the first time. 
They didn't have much to cheer the rest of the way, either.< 
Notes:@ Wade and James ­close friends -inadvertently hugged each other to end the third quarter. Moon fired a pass down the left sideline, the two MVP candidates got entangled, then wrapped arms around each other to keep themselves from falling into the front row of seats.... Brown was chosen the Eastern Conference's coach of the month, crediting his team. "I haven't played a sec­ond all season," he said.... James was fouled twice on 3­pointers in the first half, making all six free throws.... Cavs F Sasha Pavlovic checked in with 
36.2 seconds left in the third period; he hadn't played since Feb. 8 because of a high ankle sprain.... The teams play again Saturday in Cleveland. 
Thunder 96, Mavericks 87 
With franchise cornerstones Kevin Durant and Jeff Green out with injuries, Russell Westbrook and the last-place Oklahoma City Thunder could easily have been overlooked by any team. 
The Dallas Mavericks might not be so quick to dismiss their neighbors to the north the next time. 
Westbrook had his first triple­double of his rookie season with 17 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists, and midseason pickup Nenad Krstic added a season­high 26 points as the under­manned Thunder beat Dallas 96-87 Monday night despite playing without their two lead­ing scorers. 
"I think we've got to prove something every night, honestly, and tonight I think we did a good job of coming out and playing as a team," said Westbrook, the franchise's first player with a triple-double since it moved from Seattle in the offseason. There were 13 others who had triple-doubles when the team was known as the SuperSonics, most recently Earl Watson (23 points, 10 rebounds, 10 assists) on Feb. 6, 2008, at Sacramento. 
Dirk Nowitzki led Dallas' charge back from a 23-point deficit, and his 3-pointer from the right wing got the Mavericks back within 88-84 with 4:13 to play. Those were the last of his 28 points, and Dallas didn't score again for 4 minutes. 
Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle was upset the Mavericks were down that much in the first place, perhaps because they underestimated a Thunder squad without Durant (sprained ankle) and Green (back spasms). 
"I just thought that the first three quarters were just a piti­ful display for a team that has aspirations to be in the playoffs and try to move up in the stand­ings," Carlisle said. "We've seen this before, too many times. 
"We (mess) around for two to three quarters and then we want Jason Kidd to bail us out with steals and hustle plays and fast-break opportunities. It's just too much to ask." 
Kyle Weaver , who answered Nowitzki's final 3-pointer and then added a runner to help Oklahoma City stop the come­back, finished with a career­high 18 points and Thabo Sefolosha added 15 points. 
Jason Terry scored 20 points for Dallas in his second game back after surgery on an injured finger. The Mavericks played the second half without Josh Howard , their third-lead­ing scorer, after a troublesome left ankle flared up again. He missed 11 games earlier this season because of the injured ankle. 
"His ankle was bothering him at halftime, so he couldn't go any more. That was that," Carlisle said. 
With lloward out, the Thunder's makeshift lineup put together an 18-3 run oarly in the second half and went up 68­49 when Krstic put back Westbrook's missed 3-pointer with 5:43 lel't in the period. A technical foul against Carlisle allowed Oklahoma City to push the lead to 20 for the lirst time, and the Thunder led by as much as 79-56 when Damien Wilkins hit a 3-pointer in the last minute of the third quarter. 
It looked like the Thunder would hardly miss Durant, who wore a walking boot on his right foot, or Green, who remained in the training room at the· arena. 
"A lot of guys stepped up, not really taking their place, but just stepped up doing what they needed to do," Westbrook said. 
Krstic had his highest scoring game since December 2006, when he was in his third season with the New Jersey Nets . An injury helped spell the end of his run with the Nets, and he wound up in Europe, where the Thunder found him and signed him as a restricted free agent in December. 
"Without Jeff and Kevin, it was a great opportunity not just for me but for everybody else," Krstic said. "It was a good win for us." 
Terry finished the third quar­ter with a 3-pointer, and that started Dallas' comeback. 
Nowitzki, who had two of his four 40-point games this season against the Thunder, scored 16 points in the fourth quarter to make it close. He missed a 3­pointer that would have again closed the deficit to four after Weaver's 3-pointer, and then committed two fouls in frustra­tion in the final 3 minutes. 
Playing against Kidd -the NBA's modern triple-double master -Westbrook needed a strong final flurry to get his lOth rebound and assist. 
AP Cavaliers forward LeBron James {23) shoots in the first quarter Monday while being defended by Heat forward Udonis Haslem. 

Tuesday, March 3, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
West leads Hornets to 98-91 win over 76ers 
Hawks take down Wizards as Jamison scores 23 points; Pistons take down Celtics, Pierce scores 26 points 
ing one-point loss at home. 
The break the Hawks got was that they were playing the worst team in the Eastern Conference. Atlanta let the Washington Wizards , who were more undermanned than usual, hang around for 2 112 quarters before pulling away for a 98-89 victory Monday night. 
"We really had to create our own energy early in the game," Harford said. "It showed toughness from our guys." 
Marvin Williams scored 28 points, Harford added 16, and Joe Johnson had 16 points and 13 rebounds as the Hawks completed a 4-0 sea­son sweep of the Wizards. Atlanta was in need of a slump-busting win, having lost five of seven after Sunday night's 88-87 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers , a game decided on a free throw by LeBron James with 1.6 sec­onds left. 
For the record, the Hawks dispatched the Wizards in a brisk 2 hours, 3 minutes-or about half of the time they spent sitting on the plane 
· going nowhere. "That's life on the road in the NBA," coach Mike Woodson said. "It happens sometimes. I tip my hat to our locker room because they bounced back from a tough loss last night. Good teams have got to do that." Antawn Jamison scored 23 points for the Wizards, whose talent level took another plunge when Caron Butler was scratched with tightness in his left hamstring. Washington fell to 0-13 against the Southeast Division, just three games away from becoming the first NBA team to go winless with­in its division. "Sometimes you hit upon 'the inexplicable," Wizards interim coach Ed Tapscott said. "I thought we should have been the team with more energy tonight, consid­ering they played a tough game against Cleveland, got in late. I guess that's what happens when you have a ter­rific player like Joe Johnson , he tends to bail you out." Meanwhile, in the locker room, Jamison's repetitive use of the phrase "Groundhog Day" to describe the Wizards' season is becoming to feel like, well, "Groundhog Day." • "It's frustrating. We can't get a win, period. It's pretty much how it's been going all year," Jamison said. "Tap brought it to our attention, I think it's never happened in history, a team not getting a win against it's division ­that's the least of our worries right now. I think eventually we'll get it done,' but it's 'Groundhog Day' once again." The score was 61-61 when Williams hit a jumper that started a 20-6 run and gave Atlanta the lead for good. Dunks by Zaza Pachulia and Flip Murray closed out the third quarter, and Williams got eight of the first 10 Hawks points of the fourth, including a three-point play that made the score 81-67. The Wizards didn't get within single digits again until the final two minutes. 
Pistons 105, Celtics 95 
The Detroit Pistons are back to their old mainstays and back to their old, winning ways. 
Richard Hamilton had 25 points, Tayshaun Prince scored 15 and each hit a 3­pointer in the final 80 sec­onds to help the Pistons beat the Celtics 105-95 on Sunday. Hamilton also had nine assists in his second straight start since Allen Iverson returned to Detroit because of a stiff back. 
"You can tell they're play­ing the system they played before Iverson got there," said Celtics forward Paul Pierce , who scored 26. "When Iverson is out there they're still trying to figure out how to use each other, how to all be successful. But that group that's out there is definitely comfortable because they've played together for years." 
Detroit had lost five straight regular season games to the 
r 
CeltiGs -9-of-11 including a six-game Eastern Conference final that sent Boston on its way to a record 17th NBA title. The Pistons had lost eight in a row before snap­ping the skid on Friday night, when Hamilton scored 31 against Orlando. 
"We played our type of bas­ketball," he said. "That's the thing for me with Tayshaun, Rasheed (Wallace) and (Antonio) McDyess, I always know they're going to be at all times." 
The Pistons acquired Iverson from Denver two games into the season for for­mer point guard Chauncey Billups , who led the Pistons to the conference finals last year and won the finals MVP when they won the NBA title in 2004. But they began a freefall on Feb. 8 that didn't stop until Iverson ·was injured. 
Pistons coach Michael Curry said he didn't think Iverson was the problem. 
"It was nothing against the way Allen played," Curry said. "We just have to play the same way, and he has to play that way." 
Glen "Big Baby" Davis, starting in place of the injured Kevin Garnett , scored 18 and Pierce played all but 18 seconds as Boston lost to an Eastern Conference opponent at home for the first time this season. 
Detroit made a season-high 34 free throws, in 40 attempts. 
"This is the old Pistons we're playing now," Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. "The ball is hopping. They're play­ing together." 
Boston led 85-81 when Wallace hit a 3-pointer with 
7:04 left to start a 13-4 run that left the Pistons ahead 94-89. They led 95-91 when Davis dived and took out Prince's feet on a breakaway, drawing a clear-path-to-the­basket foul; Prince hit one free throw, then Rodney Stuckey missed both. 
But after Pierce missed one of two free throws, Prince hit a 3-pointer from the corner to put the Pistons up eight. Hamilton added a 3 with 50 seconds left to make it_ 103­94. 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -David West decided it was his turn to lead New Orleans. 
He's playing his best bas­ketball of the season, and, not coincidenta·lly, so are the Hornets. 
West scored 30 points with 10 rebounds to lead the Hornets to their season-high fifth straight win, 98-91 over the Philadelphia 76ers on Monday night. 
"I've just been trying to go out and make the initiative," he said. "I feel like if I play well, it gives us a better chance to win games." 
West was chosen the Western Conference player of the week only hours earlier on the strength of his 28.5 points and 10.5 rebounds in four Hornets' victories. The new week brought more of the same stellar production. West scored the Hornets' first 12 points as they raced to a 13-point lead. 
Chris Paul bounced back from a two-point first half to finish with ·16 points and 12 assists. His 3-pointer with 70 seconds left made it 95-89 and the Sixers could not recover. 
Led by West, the Hornets won for the seventh time in nine games since the All-Star break. 
"We really haven't played our best basketball in the last five games, but we just keep finding ways to win games," coach Byron Scott said. "I think we have some confi­dence in ourselves that when the game is on the line, we 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
are able to get things done to win the game." 
West has 30-plus points and 10-plus rebounds in three of the last four games and is averaging a cool 30.0 points in the last four games. 
The Sixers lost for the sixth time in eight games since the All-Star break and continue to slide down the Eastern Conference standings. Their 14-4 run last month had them in the hunt for the fourth seed and now they're closer to eighth. 
Andre Iguodala scored a season-high 30 points and Andre Miller had 28 for Philadelphia. 
"We are going to work on the little things that will put us up," Sixers coach Tony DiLeo said. 
Iguodala swished a 20-foot­er to bring Philadelphia with­in one early in the fourth period. Paul assisted on two straight baskets for some breathing room and West made a short jumper to give him 30 points and New Orleans an 84-75 lead. 
Rasual Butler , who had 16 points and 10 rebounds, hit the Hornets' eighth 3 of the game and they were back ahead by double digits. 
The Sixers don't play again until Saturday and need the break to figure out how to start winning again. But they did have some fight in them, coming back from 13 down to tie the score at 25 in the sec­ond quarter. 
"The main thing we need to do is take focus," Iguodala said. "It'll be a couple· of days before we have a game, so we 
mainly just need to get our­selves ready and prepare for the next game. We've been having tough losses, and I think we've had a learning experience in those close losses." 
They could have done more to stop West. 
West, who scored 32 points in Sunday's win at New Jersey, shouldered the offen­sive load early when he made six of his first seven shots. When he scored his ninth basket midway through the second-quarter, a Sixers fan yelled out: "Will you double­team him, please?!" He scored 22 points in the half to help New Orleans lead 46-45 at halftime. 
"With Paul penetrating and probing, we've got guys who can make shots," West said. "That's what's been happen­ing." 
Hawks 98, Wizards 89 
Al Harford watched tWo DVDs of "Desperate Housewives," took a nap, woke up and played cards with some teammates. 
And the plane was still on the tarmac. 
"Just sitting there," the Atlanta Hawks center said. "I was going crazy." 
Some four or five hours late, after waiting in a long line to be de-iced because of an East Coast storm, the Atlanta Hawks plane finally took off for the nation's capi­tal. The team didn't check into its hotel until 6 a.m. or so, hardly the ideal itinerary for a slumping squad in need of a break after a dishearten-
The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students Seeks New Undergrad Student Members For 2009-2010 
We welcome "alliesn and gay, lesbian, bi-sexual or questioning students. 
Applications are available on the Core Council Web Site: 
http:l/corecouncil.nd.edu 
or can be picked up from: The Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 8am to 5pm Monday·Friday 
Completed Applications are due Friday, March 20 by 5pm in the Office of Student Affairs Attn: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP 
• •  Your participation in this Council will: Assist with identifying the ongoing needs ofgay, lesbian, bi*sexual & questioning students Assistin implementing campus-wide educational programming on gayandlesbian issues  
Please visit our web site for more information: http:l/corecouncil.nd.edu  

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
NCAA WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
UConn wolllen have 30-0 season 
Top-ranked Huskies looking ahead to the Big East tournament 
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. Unbeaten and still unim­pressed. Only at Connecticut. 
Even after beating Rutgers for their first undefeated reg­ular season in six years, the top-ranked Huskies were all business and thinking about the next step: the Big East tournament. 
"Being 30-0 is fantastic if you're able to finish it off down the road," Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma said. "For better or worse, I've created an environment no matter how great we are or how wonderful we are that the real story is if we don't win the national champi­onship." 
Renee Montgomery scored 23 points and top-ranked Connecticut beat Rutgers 69­59 on Monday night to finish off the fifth undefeated regu­lar season in program histo­ry. 
"In our league to win every game that's pretty good," Auriemma said. ''I'm proud of the fact that for the most part our guys show up every night and played and competed." 
UConn (30-0, 16-0 Big East) last went unbeaten in the regular season in 2002-03. The Huskies finished that year with their second straight national champi­onship after losing to Villanova in the Big East tournament. Monday's win also marked the seventh time UConn has run through the conference unbeaten. 
"It means a lot. I've never been able to do it the whole time I've been here," Montgomery said. "Especially since we wanted to do. It was one of our goals. It gives you more motivation." 
Tina Charles added 14 poinls for the Huskies, who will next play in the quarter­finals of the Big East tourna­ment Sunday. Rutgers (18-11, 9-7) will be the seventh seed 
and play Saturday in the sec­ond round of the tournament. 
"It's a new chapter," said Kia Vaughn, who scored a season-high 24 points. "Coach stresses it a lot: Start a new beginning. Everyone · knows what the whole team is capable of doing. Hopefully we go out and play hard and not have any sluggish games." 
Epiphanny Prince added 11 to lead the Scarlet Knights, who had won four straight by an average of 16 points before Monday's loss. 
"Rutgers is a lot better than thei~; record," Auriemma said. "Sometimes they find ways to lose. Doesn't mean they are a bad team or don't have the talent to win games." 
UConn, which became the first team since Duke in 2006-07 to finish the regular season unblemished, had run through its opponents this season winning by an aver­age of 28 points. No team has been able to come within sin­gle digits of the Huskies all season -although they need­ed some last-second free throws from Maya Moore to continue that streak. 
Leading 36-20 at the half, UConn looked as if it was on its way to another rout. The teams traded baskets over the first 4 minutes of the sec­ond half and Connecticut led 43-26 before getting sloppy with the ball. 
The Huskies turned it over on five of six possessions as Rutgers went on a 12-3 run over the next 5 minutes to cut the deficit to 47-38 on Nikki Speed's jumper. 
Rutgers trailed 51-42 and had the ball, but Prince missed a layup and Vaughn couldn't convert the follow. 
Montgomery drilled a 3­pointer -her seventh of the game -on the other end to start a 7-0 run and restore the double-digit lead. Rutgers wasn't finished, closing to 62­54 with 1:29 left after Auriemma was given a tech­nical foul for arguing a call. 
Rutgers came within 65-59 on Vaughn's layup with 22 seconds left, but ran out of time as UConn hit seven of eight free throws in the last few minutes. 
The Scarlet Knights got some confidence from the close loss. 
"We just played the No. 1 team in the nation and we outrebo-unded them and forced them to 23 turnovers," Prince said. "If we hit our shots, we would have won." 
UConn has won 30-plus games in four straight years and 15 of the past 17 sea­sons. The only times they did­n't do it were in 1998-99 and 2004-05. 
The Huskies raced out to a 21-5 lead 8 112 minutes into the contest. That early spurt quieted the sellout crowd of just over 8,000. Montgomery scored the first 11 points of the game hitting three 3­pointers and a jumper. 
"When Renee makes her first couple, it's lights out," Auriemma said. 
Heather Zurich finally got the Scarlet Knights on the board with a 3-pointer. Another 3 by Montgomery and two baskets by Charles and the Huskies were up by 16. 
UConn, which has won 112 straight games against non­ranked opponents, shot 55 percent from the field. It marked the first time an opponent has made ove·r half its shots against Rutgers in 69 games. 
The Scarlet Knights hon­ored seniors Vaughn and Zurich before the game. Vaughn is the fourth player in school history to have at least 1,000 points and 1,000 rebounds. With her seven rebounds Monday night she moved past Regina Howard into second place on Rutgers' career list. 
MLB 
Cabrera working out deal with Ns 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -The Oakland Athletics are close to signing free agent Orlando Cabrera to a $4 million, one-year con­tract, likely ending former AL Rookie of the Year Bobby Crosby's disappointing tenure as the team's starting short­stop. 
The Athletics said there would not be an announce­ment Monday. The deal is contingent on the 34-year-old Cabrera's passing a physical. 
Cabrera, a two-time Gold Glove winner, hit .281 with eight home runs and 57 RBis in 161 games with the Chicago White Sox last sea­son. 
He's also played for the Montreal Expos, Boston Red Sox, Los Angeles Angels over a 12-year career. 
Crosby, the 2004 AL Rookie of the Year, came to camp as the A's incumbent shortstop, but it was widely know the A's were looking elsewhere. 

Crosby, who has a lifetime batting average of .239 and has missed considerable time to injury, spent six weeks during the offseason working with former major leaguer Mark McGwire. 
"I want to get better," Crosby said recently. "I know I haven't played as well as· I can. I'm changing my appruach, my stance. For the most part I think there's always something I can improve upon. I know I have the support of the guys. I take the attitude I'll go out and play." 
Crosby finished with an on­base percentage under .300 in each of the past three years. He has cut down on his strikeouts but he has also cut down on his walks, and he hits into too many double plays. 
A's manager Bob Geren told the media earlier in the spring that Crosby "is going to be in the lineup and he's going to play." 
Specializing in l>eautlful Color 
HUMP DAY Every Wednesday take $1 0-off color, $5-off cuts 

258-5080 
620 W. Edisol') R~t Mithawaf<a, JN 
·-·~c.c:Om···· 

Associated Press 
t'IERA, Fla. -Eive weeks before the start of the regular season, Jim Bowden resigned as the Washington Nationals' gen­eral manager. So exactly who is calling the shots on personnel moves until a successor is cho­sen? 
For now, it's team president Stan Kasten. 
''I'm in charge.... I've done this before," Kasten said Monday after meeting with Washington's front-office team. ''I'm doing what we need to do to keep the franchise moving forward." 
Multitasking is familiar territo­ry for Kasten, who in 1999 simultaneously served as presi­dent of baseball's Atlanta Braves, the NBA's Atlanta Hawks and the NHL's Atlanta Thrashers. 
At 27, Kasten became the youngest GM in NBA history with the Hawks, holding the 
position from 1979-1990 while concurrently serving as Hawks president from 1986-1990. 
When Bowden stepped down Sunday after four years at the Nationals' helm, Kasten prom­ised that the team wouldn't miss a beat. After regrouping Monday morning, he reiterated that it would be "later this week" before any replacement --inter­im or otherwise --would be picked. 
A cloud has hung over the Nationals since last summer because of an FBI investigation into bonuses skimmed from Latin American prospects: and the scandal cost Bowden and special assistant Jose Rijo their jobs. 
But that's hardly the only chal­lenge facing a team that lost a major league-worst 102 games last season. 
Bowden leaves a team over­stocked with corner outfielders, a logjam at first base and a need for arms to fortify the bullpen. Those personnel decisions were to have played out under Bowden as spring training pro­gressed. Now the Nationals have to decide who will be managing the inevitable roster shuffle. 
"We have exhorted people to step up. We expeet them to step up. I need them to step up," Kasten said. "We have a deep bench and that's not an acci­dent. It was a philosophy of Jim's and it's a philosophy of mine." 
If Washington wants to look in­house for a replacement, Mike Rizzo remains among Bowden's former lieutenants. Promoting Rizzo, an assistant general man­ager and vice president of base­ball operations since July 2006, wouldn't require Washington to request a waiver from Major League Baseball, which usually requires teams to interview minority candidates for such front-office vacancies. 

MLB 
Nationals search for GM 
Jim Bowden resigns, team president Stan Kasten in charge 
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
McGraw 
continued from page 20 
alleviate the scoring drought; when fouls allow, she'll sub in both a veteran and a freshman. Freshman Natalie Novosel will replace junior Melissa Lechlitner, but senior Lindsay Schrader will replace freshman Kellie Watson. Against West VIrginia, junior Erica Williamson would exchange spots with freshman Erica Solomon until Solomon got into foul trouble. 
Solomon scored five points and had three rebounds and Watson had four points, including a 3­pointer, and three assists. Novosel fmished with one point. 
Despite the trouble the fresh­men had today, McGraw was more optimistic about their per­formance than she had been in previous games. 
'Today we had the most bench points we have had in a long time. Our bench has not scored much lately," McGraw said in a press conference after Monday's game. "I was excited that Kellie made a three. That has to make her feel good. And Erica was going to have a good game before she got in foul trouble. I thought the bench played better today than they have all year." 
It's understandable a freshman going deep into the Big East sea­son may burn out their first time through, so it's not fair to criti­cize the girls too heavily. They have their talents. Watson can shoot the three and had a few open looks Monday but chose to pump fake and dish instead. Solomon's athleticism allows her to score and rebound in the paint, and once she learns to keep out of foul trouble she'll be a great complement to Becca Bruszewsk and Williamson down low. 
Novosel has great ability to draw contact in the paint and make off-balance layups, and her midrange jump shot, while not as potent as Lindsay Schrader's or Melissa Lechlitner's, forces defenses to respect it and can hurt them when they don't. 
So this conundrum requires to two things. 
First, the frosh have to sum­mon their talents. Come confer­ence tournament time this week­end, the team will need their contributions. Watson has to take those threes. Novosel has to drive the lane, or fake it, pull up and shoot. Solomon needs to box out and attempt layups in the paint. 
Second, the veterans need to realize the bench production likely won't reach its previous levels and adapt. To keep up with the competition, they need to make some changes. 
The team threw the ball away because of miscommunication Monday. That can't happen. 
Players messed up switching off screens and lost players while on defense. Can't happen. 
Some veterans took hasty shots rather than setting up an offense when the freshmen were on the court. Won't work. 
"We kind of escaped today. I wanted to win the game and look good doing it," McGraw said. ''I'm not really frustrated, it's just a little disappointing." 
Monday's game wasn't pretty. Increased freshmen contribution and veteran adaptation to the new level of contribution may not make future games prettier, but it will make them balanced and give Notre Dame back the edge it used to have. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Meghan Conaty, Katie Rashid, Newsom, and Beier.
Belles 
"I am very proud of our four continued from page 20 seniors," Henley said. "They took ownership of this team early on 
son for me is to watch how this and are a big reason for the suc­team has improved since cess we had." October," she said. The Belles will now look to 
The Belles will lose four seniors build on their young talent for from this year's runner up team: next year. But Henley isn't quite sure who will be able to fill the big shoes that Newsom, Beier, Conaty, and Rashid will leave behind. 
"It's hard to say who will fill the roles that are seniors had this year," she said. "Each season brings a new identity." 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 
NHL 
Parker, Spurs storm past Clips 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Tony Parker had 26 points and 10 assists, and the San Antonio Spurs pulled away in the third quarter with four 3-pointers from Michael Finley to beat the Los Angeles Clippers 106-78 on Monday night. 
Tim Duncan , playing his sec­ond game after missing the previ­ous three with a sore right knee, had 18 points, 12 rebounds and six assists before sitting out the fourth quarter. The 11-time All­Star needs 18 points to overtake Scottie Pippen for 44th place on the career scoring list. 
Finley and Matt Bonner each had 14 points for the Southwest Division leaders, who avoided their first three-game losing streak since starting the season 0-3. 
Manu Ginobili , the NBA's sixth man of the year last season, missed his eighth straight game because of an ankle injury. He is expected to miss at least another week. 
AI Thornton and Fred Jones each had 14 points for the Clippers, who have lost 11 straight against San Antonio and 19 of the last 20 meetings. Thornton missed 10 of his first 11 shots and finished 5-for-19. 
The Spurs, the league's second­best 3-point shooting team, missed 10 of 11 attempts from behind the arc in the first half before Michael Finley heated up. His fourth 3-pointer in a 5:08 span capped a 23-10 run that helped increase San Antonio's 13-point halftime lead to 74-48 with 5:22 left in the third. 
The Clippers got as close as 16 points on Baron Davis' layup with 
6:48 remaining, but Parker responded with a 17 -footer, a three-point play and a 3-point shot to seal the victory. 
Los Angeles used its 26th dif­ferent starting lineup, with 3­point specialist Steve Novak mak­ing his second start of the season at small forward and rookie Mike Taylor starting his second game at shooting guard. 
Oklahoma City 96, Dallas 87 
With franchise cornerstones Kevin Durant and Jeff Green out with injuries, Russell Westbrook and the last-place Oklahoma Oty Thunder could easily have been overlooked by any team. 
The Dallas Mavericks might not be so quick to dismiss their neighbors to the north the next time. 
Westbrook had his first triple­double of his rookie season with 17 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists, and midseason pickup Nenad Krstic added a season­high 26 points as the under­manned Thunder beat Dallas 96­87 Monday night despite playing without their two leading scorers. 
"I think we've got to prove something every night, honestly, and tonight I think we did a good job of coming out and playing as a team," said Westbrook, the franchise's first player with a triple-double since it moved from Seattle in the offseason. There were 13 others who had triple­doubles when the team was known as the SuperSonics, most recently Earl Watson (23 points, 10 rebounds, 10 assists) on Feb. 6, 2008, at Sacramento. 
NFL 
Warner visits with 49ers, enters talks with team 
49ers' training complex by
Associated Press 
limousine shortly before 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. -lunchtime with his wife, Kurt Warner is being courted Brenda. He had lunch and a by an eager division rival of meeting with general manag­the Arizona Cardinals. er Scot McCloughan, coach 
The San Francisco 49ers Mike Singletary and likely sent a private jet Monday for owner Jed York before travel­the two-time MVP quarter­ing to Stanford Hospital for back, who traveled from his exam. Phoenix to the team's train­Warner returned to the ing complex for a physical complex in a Cadillac driven exam and a meeting with top by 49ers athletic trainer Jeff brass. Ferguson at about 4 p.m. 
Warner led the Cardinals to Warner mouthed the words the Super Bowl last season, ''I'm not talking" through the but became a free agent window to reporters as they when he didn't re-sign with drove through a security the club. Arizona has offered gate. a two-year, $20 million con­The Warners were expected tract to Warner, who will be to fly home Monday night. 38 years old when training Warner proved he's still at camp opens. the top of his talents last sea­
But Warner is seeking a son. After claiming the deal worth at least $14 mil­Cardinals' starting job from lion per season, and the for­Matt Leinart, Warner passed mer St. Louis Rams star for 4,583 yards and 30 touch­seems willing to leave downs, leading the franchise Arizona, his home for the to its first division title since past four seasons, for the 1975. He also starred in four right offer. playoff games, completing 68 
NFC West rival San percent of his passes for Francisco finished just two 1,147 yards and 11 IDs. games behind the Cardinals Singletary has been unwill­in second place last season, ing to designate veteran and the club has enough cap Shaun Hill as his starter for turing his contract to stay Fitzgerald and Anquan Boldin to another reason Warner room to accommodate next season even after Hill with the 49ers, who'll release to join a run-based offense might not be perfectly suited Warner's salary wishes. With led San Francisco to five wins him if they can't reach a deal with no proven pass-catchers for the Niners. Fullback no established starting quar­in its final seven games and a with a much lower base -although Warner's arrival Moran Norris signed a three­terback on the 49ers' roster, 7-9 record that knocked the salary than the $9 million in might persuade longtime year contract to return to the the club rolled out its red­interim tag off Singletary's his current contract. Rams teammate Isaac Bruce 49ers, who have repeatedly and-gold carpet to entice title. The 49ers might not be the to put off retirement for said they plan to build a run­Warner. Alex Smith, the injury­ideal fit for Warner, who another season. first offense around running 
After flying into Silicon plagued former No. 1 draft would leave a lineup with San Francisco's biggest back Frank Gore and new Valley, Warner arrived at the pick, is working on restruc-star receivers Larry signing Monday also pointed coordinator Jimmy Raye. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
'They got up in us, denied some accurate all night hitting six-of­
players. passing angles," Irish forward Ryan seven three-point attempts finishing 
"It's very frustrating. We
'Nova 
wvu 
Ayers said. "They got their hands with 23 points. Reynolds also fin­
lose our point guard because continued from page 20 on the ball, forced some turnovers. ished with five assists to go along 
continued from page 20 she's sick today, so she doesn't They made us feel uncomfortable." with only one turnover. 
play and all of the sudden we All night Notre Dame seemed "I think we were up by four in the 
have to move everybody out of are frustrated and disappointed." bothered by the Wildcats' defensive semnd half, and then Reynold<> gets 
started to claw their way back position and it's very frustrat­No moment could have been quickness. With no starter taller going," Brey said. "The two threes 
into the game through a com­ing," Mountaineers coach more frustrating for Brey and his than 6-foot-8, Villanova played a he hit [early in the second hall] real­
bination of poor Irish free­Mike Carey said. team than a ser,ond half stretch in switching, fluid defense that kept ly jumpstarted them. Overall, they 
throw shooting and making Irish guard Lindsay which a close game quickly got out the Irish from getting comfortable were difficult for us to guard. Their 
their own 3-pointers -a Schrader said she didn't see of hand. on their favorite spots on the speed was difficult for us to guard 
longtime sore spot for the any difference in the With 11 :02 remaining, Ryan perimeter. in the sec,ond half" 
Irish. Mountaineers' intensity or Ayers hit a 3-pointer to bring Notre No Irish player felt the defensive One bright spot for Notre Dame 
"1 thought we got compla­hustle during the game Dame within one at 51-50. The pressure more than guard Kyle was the play of sophomore forward 
cent. We let them have a cou­despite their small numbers. Irish would score orily one point McAlarney. After hitting a 3-pointer Ty Nash. Making his first start of 
ple 3s right back to back. We "At the start of the game over the next 6:53 as Villanova 19 seconds into the game, the season, Nash led the team in 
didn't follow our game plan when we lined up for the went on a 16-1 run putting the McAlarney wouldn't score again rebounds grabbing 11 in 25 min­
defensively," McGraw said. national anthem I was like, game out of reach. until there was· orily 2:42 remaining utes of action. Monday marked the 
The free throws were more alright, we're going to run During that stretch, Notre Dame in the game. McAlarney, who second consecutive game that Nash 
of a surprise for McGraw. The them out. They're a tough turned the ball over four times. entered Monday averaging 12.9 ha<> led the Irish in rebounding. 
Irish on the season shoot just team, they're a running Those miscues were part of a larg­shots per game, took only seven 
under 70 percent from the team," she said. er theme for the night as the Irish shots on the evening. Notes 
line, but Monday afternoon The game puts the Irish at turned the ball over 15 times in "That was our best defensive +Notre Dame forward Zach 
they were only 14-of-24, or 10-6 in the Big East, tied with total-well above their NCAA­game we played all year," Wildcats Hillesland dressed for Monday's 
58.3 percent. DePaul and Villanova for leading season average of9.6 coach Jay Wright said. "They are game but didn't enter the contest 
McGraw said the free throws fourth place. 
"They made us play faster than an outstanding team and preparing due to a bruised sternum suffered 
were mostly about a lack of we're used to," point guard Tory for them is so difficult. For us to Saturday at Connecticut. Brey said 
focus. Notes: Jackson said of the Wildcats' defend them like that is the best that he hopes to have Hillesland 
"I think that's what free +Schrader's 14 points and defense. "Defensively, they get right performance we have had in a long available for Senior Night on Friday 
throws are mostly, focus and 11 rebounds gives her three up in you, touching you. They're time defensively." when the Irish take on St. John's. 
repetition. And Ashley Barlow, double-doubles in her last five very scrappy. At first we were in a Offensively, Monday was the 
a great free throw shooter, games and six on the season. rhythm, but they took us right out Scottie Reynolds show for Villanova. Contact Greg Arbogast at 
she missed a few -front ends That ties the Notre Dame of it." The senior point guard was deadly garbogas@nd.edu 
of 1-and-1's," McGraw said. record for double-doubles in a Forward Becca Bruszewski season by a guard, set by finally made the shots the Danielle Green in 1998-1999. unable to capitalize from any con­play, when an Ayers' 3-pointer 
Irish needed when she "That is really a difficult fusion or mismatches that may made it 67-54. 
stepped up and nailed two accomplishment. She's been
N.I.T. 
have resulted from those switches. That was the ballgame and 
from the charity stripe to push doing a great job on the continued from page 20 McAiarney shot just seven shots. probably Notre Dame's sea<>on. 
the lead back to seven points. boards and has been our lead­After draining the game's first So what's left for the Irish? 
"I thought Becca's two free ing rebounder all year long," ''[It's disappointing] just in the bucket, he had just two points the Pride, for one. Notre Dame plays 
throws were really key. That McGraw said. "She's some­sense that we kind of knew what rest of the way-a layup with it<> fmal home game Friday against 
was really important. When body we really count on to get was on the line," senior forward 2:42 left. Against many elite teams St. John's and has a chance to 
she made those I thought that a big rebound at the end of Ryan Ayers said. 'We've been in the Big East this season, honor its four seniors -Ayers, 
made a real difference in the the game, and she's been able playing pretty well, especially McAiarney couldn't get open­McAlarney, Luke Zeller and Zach 
game," McGraw said. to do that. She's been working coming off a good fight at and his teammates couldn't find Hillesland-with a win. And 
The game against the the offensive boards pretty Connecticut." ways to get him open. these four deserve a win, aftnr 
Mountaineers posed two well, and I thought she did What went wrong Monday? "I felt we really didn't do a good helping reshape Notre Dame bas­
strange circumstances for the another good job of that "More than any team in the job of screening for him and get­ketball the past three years. 
Irish. The first was the tip-off, today." league, we really need all of our ting him open and getting some But to finish their careers with 
which was at 3:30 p.m., the parts kind of working well togeth­easy looks," Ayers said. another trip to the NCAA 
only weekday matinee for the +Monday's game was senior er," Irish coach Mike Brey said. One of the ways Notre Dame Tournament, Notre Dame needs 
squad this season. The game night for the Irish, who don't As happened all too often this gets McAiarney open looks is in to go on a hot streak in the Big 
time changed the schedule for have any graduating seniors season, those parts couldn't get in transition, but getting out in tran­East tournament next week and 
the Irish, forcing some to miss on the roster. Schrader, who sync. sition requires getting defensive have a week similar to Syracuse in 
the ends of classes to make tore her ACL during the 2006­Notre Dame's formerly potent stops, another thing that eluded 2006, when the Orange, who 
the team meal and shoot­07 season, will petition for a offense managed just 60 points Notre Dame in the second half, a<> came in as the No. 9 seed, won 
around. fifth-year of eligibility. The against a hard-working, disci­it has at other points this season. four games in a row to win the 
"It's definitely a different set team did recognize senior plined Villanova defense that used The Irish were up four with title and secure a Tournament 
of circumstances," McGraw managers Brad Lenoir and its speed to force 15 Notre Dame 14:39 left, when Wildcats guard berth. 
said of the start-time. "I was Caitlin Madden before the turnovers and get the Irish out of Scottie Reynolds hit two 3-point­"We're going to stick to what 
happy to play in the afternoon game. their offensive rhythm. ers. Then forward Dante we've been doing and try to 
to get the game over with. A "That was the best defensive Cunningham scored Villanova's change things and get better," 
veteran team you expect to +There was a moment of game we played all year," next eight points. During this criti­Ayers said. 
come out better." silence before the game to Villanova coach Jay Wright said. cal stretch of the game, Villanova But Notre Dame ha<> had all sea­
McGraw added that she honor longtime South Bend "They are an outstanding offen­scored on eight of 11 offensive son and a plethora oflosses to 
never wanted to play a 3:30 Tribune writer and women's sive team and preparing for them possessions to take an 8-point lead address its problems. Given 
game again. basketball beat writer Forrest is so difficult." with 8:18left in game. Notre Monday's performance, why 
The other odd situation for "Woody" Miller, who passed Furmy, because Villanova and a Dame, meanwhile, managed just would next week be any different? 
the Irish against West Virginia away on Saturday. lot of Notre Dame's opponents three field goals over the same 
was the Mountaineer lineup, haven't made it seem too difficult. stretch of time and didn't hit a Contact Chris Hiue at 
which injuries this season Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at Villanova's defense did what field goal again until4:08 left to chine@nd.edu 
have limited to only seven jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
those other teams did successfully against the Irish -shut down senior guard Kyle McAlamey. 
"It's the old Big East scouting report," Brey said of the Wildcats strategy against McAiarney. "Quickness, up on a guy, hugging him, following him, all over him." 
Big East opponents all year have been content with allowing Harangody to score in double fig­ures, but have focused their efforts on shutting down the rest of Notre Dame, especially McAlarney. 
On Monday, Harangody pitched in 18, and Ryan Ayers had a great offensive game with 25 points, but after that, Notre Dame scored just 17 combined point<>. Junior guard Tory Jackson, coming off two of his best offensive games this sea­son, managed just four points. McAlarney finished with just five points. 
That output wasn't a case of McAiarney getting open looks and failing to hit them. McAiarney just couldn't get open. Villanova had the speed to hound him all around the perimeter. 
The Wildcats played a lot of switching man-to-man, which made it hard for McAiarney to get open around screens. His team­mates, except for Ayers, were 
SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO SUPPORT FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
for details and npplication forms, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies· (154 Hurley Building-Ph 1-5203) 
NEW THIS YEAR 
f..JIN.J1.JlAJ?..lLf.:iB!JN.'l:!i.Et::!.R.!J.R'l:~.....,_.._f...!i..'r.T.IfR~ ...f!T!!PifN_"f'.!i .. Q..NI.._OY~__GO... TO: 
The Center for the Study of Language & Culture website at: http://cslc.nd.edu/grants (329 DeBartolo-Ph. 631-5881) 
application deadline: FRIDAY MARCH 6, 2009 
Sponsored by the Office of lntet·national Studies, The Collc~e of At·ts & Letlet·s, The Nano,·ic Institute, & the '"hmdozu College of BusinL>ss 
--·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Popular fabric Li'l Abner creator 
softener AI 34 Big name in retail jewelry 
5 China shop purchase 36 Gives the thumbs-up
11 Seminoles' sch. 37 Composer Satie 
14 Baseball's 38 Some mailings 
Moises or Felipe to record execs
15 Play starter 39 Go sprawling 
16"_.only 
40 AOL alternative 

money!" 41 Nation once
17 Game with "Out known asof Gas" cards 
Dahomey19 Certain whiskey 
42 Horses' locks 20 Spots for spats 
43 Uke newly laid 21 High-voltage lawns weapon 
45 Alternative to a 23 Had a yen station wagon or 25Word with 
convertible double or free 47 Contradict 26 Furrier John 49 Convertibles. Jacob_ informally 
28 Classic Isaac 53 Cop's cruiser Asimov short-56 Check out of a story collection library, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

57 Place for a plug 58 Robert Ludlum 
protagonist 60Uglyas_ 61 Former British 
P.M. Clement 
62 Larry who won the 1987 Masters 
63 Poem of Sappho 64 Start over with, as a lawn 65 Salon sound 
Down 
Bar soap brand 2 Flared dress 3 Oompah band 
tune 4 Exert one's superiority 5 Typewriter formatting feature 6 Prefix with system or 
sphere 7 Gillette razor 8 Braga of film 9 Vigorous 
feelings 1 0 Lab personnel 11 Heir to a throne. 
typically 12 Eyelid woe 13 Tech's customer 18_·weensy 22 "I'll take that as 
" 24 Dunkin' Donuts order 27 Harold of "Ghostbusters" 29 Depression-era migrant 
WILLSHORTZ 


PuUie by Jlm Hyres 

30 Recipe amts. 41 Sylvia Plath 51 seheme 31 G.O.P. rivals novel, wilh "The" (investment 
scam)32 Guesstimate 
42 Myopic Mr. 
52 Remove dust phrase 

44 Mountain -· 
bunnies 33 Like ttte dust in a (soda) 
53 Colombian cash dust storm 46 Applied gently 54 Drug bust, e.g.

35 Asocial sort 

48 Some bridge 38 Devote wholly seats 55 58-Across. lor Matt Damon
39 Rugrats' 50 Sen. Hatch of outbursts Utah 59 Bridal bio word 
For answers, cal! 1·900·285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800-814·5554. · Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords trom the last 50 years: 1·S88·7·ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.comlmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles. nytimes.comtcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share lips: nytfmes.comtwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBR.ITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Chris Mattin . .'2: Jnn Bon Jovi. -t7; Lt'U R<'ed. 67; Jennifer Jones. 9(1 
Happy Birthday: l'ut muru vmphash on yout car<:<·r ur yuur O<'Xt pha.;, in lite. (\msider upgrading your •kith or g<'Uing involv<.'d in >J:IIIIething to help y•>U enjoy y<>Ur lite mm>:. You can s~curc ~·our future by making conservative but we!Hh<mght....>ut lll<We~ th.s year. !fs ac6otlllu!l b r~quir.,d. Your numhcf' :•rc: ~. S, 15. !4, 32. 34, .p 
A RIB'S (March 21-April 19); Don't get cm<lti<~nally iov,~lw..t in thins.• lhill d<m't con· <'rnl yott. You will make a far grc:ak'r imr>act if you con~entrate on hO<>king up with people who can help ~·ou gel ahead. P<lrlnaship> and new pro,iects are highlighted. A!<we rdation>hip will impr<wc with nurture. 3 st>rll 
TAURUS (Aprii20·Mlly 20): You will he cln..tti<>n:tl <~bout ''"'"'"over whkh you ha,·c lillie c<>ntwl. Tmwt work. educ·mirm or ~dtinking your ba~ic life phil("'c>pb~· wil.l bdp Y''" make U!t: rit:hl ch<>icc•. Somclinw' an adjustmem i~ all that'~ re<jUi.W>(L 3 ~~= 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Set your sighb high uml go aflcr what you w;utt. IJou't lei emotional matters ot anyone who i:s. wrapped up In a mdndranut dr..l~ you into his -or her oukal. S<>J:n<Xme fmm )·our past wt!l help )-Yol <mt J «= 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): l~p<:ricnc·c "'mcdting a link difkrent Y"u will find dif­ferent ways It' mak< }'t'<lf life easi~r. \Vvrking tvward grC'>llcr se<.·urity is lin< but nvt utthc expense <lf activltie~ ond ~'"'"H that niTer you knowledge and wisdom 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): \bur mind •hould be \)II folh>Wing M cn•ativc ~ wnue :•s po.<· ~ibk Emen:;in the idea <>fa partne"hil' if it will he <'<m<lucivc lo making '"'"of your goals or dlv~m• wm~ tnt<~.. N<IW i:> '' gre;~l Hnw h1t love. 2 stars 
VI.ROO {Aug. 23·Sept. 22): Sudden ,·banl!t'S will tum out to be in your fawr, so don't shudder at the Hrnt mention of ;;onwthing new. Travdin\( will give you a·l>roader new nf the po.sibibtics that exi.:t. D<ln't be trid,<.'>d into doing something f<1r S<>IOCone when it'• n<>l your r<.%f'I'IWibi1i~y. 5 ~t;m; 
LlURA (Sept 23..0,t. 22): f'<><'U' "n fun. mnmn<:c and relation.tlip•. Y<~u ~an rc<·vmle<.1 with old friend> and d(scowr a lot about woo you are. Sdf~impnwe!ll<'nt pn>j(<ls will cost a lvt but. in llw end. w··ill be worth it. Try to stay wllhm yoUT means. ·' ;tars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 'iou'll be tom betw= what you should do and what you wamlo do. Before you m11ke up y<>ur mind. cmtsidet the eons""!uences. It's a no-win situ­ation but you may have to put "'mte1me dw's hcst intcre~ts first thi> tinte. 3 >tars 
SAGllTARlUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): Don't listen 1<.> whnt oth.:rs want you to do. t'ollow yvur ""n instinct<. A new din:ction may be. ne<-e.ssar:y but don't rule ootutilizin!l some of )'<>Ur oM •kilh. id~"' or projt,cts. Th" timing h prohaNy mudt betll.'r n•.>"'· 3 star> 
CAPRICORN (Dee. 22·Jan. 19): l'ton't waste time trying to <:~lain your ""tkm~ wtwn you haw dmte exactly wl!at was l\Xjuirt>d <1f >'<>U. Put «•on< eftott int<• your l:.er;;,'!ltallife and h~llnl". A re~idential mo\'c or making ~ome ah•ati(lll~ w your t.:urn·nt s.itm~tion will help you fed better ah<mt yout future> ~ ""'' . 
AQUARIUS (1an, 20·Feb. IS); l)(m't g,h·e in 1<1 em<)li<>lu1!n~;mipuhui<>ll-11l~rc M:' :1lway" m;>re <'!'lion• and tim<: is'"' Y<lUr 'id•·. Take il wait·•n<l-'<'<: •t>Jir<>adl. Joming" group or orguni1.~tioo thai imerc'!lts ruu will hti111.1 you greater confiJc'll<:c. 2 st.us 
PISCES (Feb. tl}·Ma:rch 20): An 11!1~'-!"-'<'kd dtange will result if )'flU are ttnrea,onabk regarding a pmp<••ition or pwpn'al hcing offered. There are underlying details <>f which y1m ;u-e probably un~wMI:'. lk smru-t and !\?ad betwe<'n the line>, .t star;; 
Birthday Baby: Yvu are imaginative <md aditptabk. Yi>U an: • humanitarian and an cmo· 
tillnal and smsitive individual. You han: an enlightened vkw u( life, low and happinc>s. 
Ew~t?-uitr'l U0it .lites: eugeni<thnt.cam for ctmfulemial countiUitwru. INYsp;we.<'mnkugo!lalmrfor Eugl'llia'> Ntc>g, <ISIIX>mh•ia·.comforftm 
www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 


MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

ITOXICE ±
I I r J 

ZAMONA 


MIKE ARGIRION JEFF KNUREK 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Arglrion and Jeff Knurek 

SH~ W~Nr OV~R FOR SOM~ SUGAR AND CAM~ HOM~ WITH --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon . 

Answerhere:( I I I)"( J I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: HOVEL CHAFE ASTHMA DAINTY Answer: What he did with the gardening tools when the ball game started -"SHED" THEM 
THE OBSERVER# 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D ~nclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _________ State _____ Zip________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish devastated at horrie by Villanova 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
With 1:41 remaining in Monday's game, Wlanova's Dwayne Anderson picked up a loose ball 'and threw down a thunderous dunk sending Irish fans streaming for the exits. The play was an exclamation point on the fact that the Irish let Monday's game, and most likely their NCAA Tournament hopes, slip from their grasp. 
After nearly pulling off a season­defining upset Saturday against Connecticut, Notre Dame was hum­bled 77-60 by Villanova leaving the Irish wondering what postseason plans await them. 
"I would say it is frustrating because you had two opportunities here Saturday and Monday to get a real quality win, and we couldn't get it," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "The disappointing thing is we played really well on Saturday. We didn't play as well tonight I know our guys 
see 'NOVA/page 18 

The bubble bursts 

Irish hopes dwindle _with crushing defeat 
If Notre Dame's season is doomed to end in the N.I.T thi'i year, which is the likely scenario after its loss to Villanova, Monday night was an appropriate swan song. 
Notre Dame had one final chance against No. 16 Villanova in the regu­lar season to show it's worthy of being in the NCAA Tournament. But the Irish lost. And they lost in a way that encapsulated everything that has gone wrong in a frustrat­ing season. Some players said it was the most disappointing loss in a season that had no shortage of candidates vying for that award. 
see N.I.T./page 18 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Senior-laden Belles team enjoys record-setting season 
can be proud of. ence tournament for the first time Team honors while sophomore Wade led the conference in 
By ALEX WEST 
"It means a lot to reach the in school history. guard Uz Wade was named MIAA steals with 86 total, averaging just 
SportS Writer 
MIAA championship game." Belles Saint Mary's biggest win of the defensive Player of the Year. over three per game. She also fin­coach Jennifer Henley said. "Every season came at home on Jan. 2 Newsom finished her senior ished second in the conference in 
The final chapter in Saint Mary's team in this conference strives to against top-ranked Hope College, campaign second in scoring with assists. basketball season came to an get there." the same team that ousted them in an average of 14.3 points per game Coach Henley said she was abrupt end at the MIAA With a 17-10 record overall, 13-the championship game. and third in rebounds pulling impressed with the in1provement Championship on Saturday. 3 in the conference, Saint Mary's -Several Belle players earned down an average of 8.6 boards a she witnessed in her team Although the story didn't have the eclipsed the school's previous post-season honors, led by All­game. throughout the season. pristine ending they had hoped for, record for wins in each category. MIAA First Team selection senior Beier averaged 10.2 points a "One of the best parts of this sea-the Belles' journey to the The Belles also reached the cham­forward Erin Newsom. Senior for­game and committed only 18 Championship is something they pionship game of the MIAA confer-ward Nicole Beier earned Second turnovers in a 27 gan1e season. see BELLES/page 17 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
.... Irish outlast late WVU rally 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame had five players in double figures and man­aged to hold off West Virginia 72-66 in the teams' regular season finale Monday after­noon at the Joyce Center. 
Despite the win, Irish coach Muffet McGraw was slightly disappointed with her team's performance in their final game before heading into the conference tournament this weekend. 
"I think we're a lot better. We want to go in on a high to the Big East tournament," she said. · 
The Irish led the entire way, but pulled ahead midway through the second half and expand~ their lead to 14 points with 12:07 to play. 
After that, West Virginia 
see WVU/page 18 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL COMMENTARY 
Key to success lies in 
bench contributions 
West Virginia knows the strug­season, but Monday and in the gle of playing without help from past few games, it could proba­the bench. bly sympathize with West 
After injuries took out some of Virginia's predicament. the players, sickness kept the In a 10-game stretch from Jan. team's start­10 to Feb. 17, the Irish bench ing point 
chipped in 16.5 points per game. guard out In the last four, the bench has during No. scored 7.5 points per game. 23 Notre Where did the points go? Dame's 72-Notre Dame coach Muffet 66win McGraw has said in recent Monday. weeks that the freshmen are 
"We just burnt out. Unfortunately for the gotta suck it Irish, the freshmen are all they up," West Bill Brink have ofT the bench because soph­Vrrgina sen-omore guard Brittany Mallory ior guard and sophomore forward Takisha Sports Editor Devereaux Peters tore their s Granberry and are out for the remainder of said in a the season. press conference after Monday's McGraw tries to keep veterans game. on the floor with the freshman to 
Notre Dame hasn't experi­enced this problem much this see MCGRAW/page 17 





