the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


24,000 employees affected by data breach 
Personal information exposed on the Internet, University working to minimize future threats 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Important personal informa­tion, such as social security numbers, names and zip codes, of many Notre Dame employees was exposed to the Internet after the University accidentally placed the information in a pub­licly accessible location. 
The data breach affected about 24,000 employees, includ­ing some students who work for the University, Gordon Wishon, associate vice president of infor­mation technology and the University’s chief information officer, said. 
The personal information that was exposed will no longer be accessible because the University immediately removed it from the Internet and secured it, he said. 
There was no evidence the information was inappropriately used, Wishon said. 
But chair of Faculty Senate Thomas Gresik, who was affect­ed by the data breach, said he did not feel sure he was safe from identity theft. 
“It’s not possible to determine if somebody managed to down­load that information before it was taken down,” he said. “The logs show that the information had been out there for awhile.” 
Gresik said he is concerned his information could be out there still. 
“That’s the current threat,” he said. “That information might be sitting on somebody’s hard drive or it may have been posted to a bulletin board or whatever places identity thieves post information.” 
Those affected by the data breach were informed in a let­ter, which was received on Nov. 20. 
“I nearly didn’t read it because it was one of those copies of a group letter, except my attention to it was that it was addressed dear Sabine, my first name,” Sabine MacCormack, a professor 
see IDENTITY/page 4 




Voting begins for Senior Legacy gift 
By ADRIANA PRATT 
News Writer 
The Senior Legacy will donate to a graduate school and job visi­tation/interview fund, International Studies, the Hesburgh Memorial Library or an area of greatest need at the end of the year. 
Voting for the Senior Legacy gift will end on Dec. 18 at 11:59 p.m. 
Emily Everett, co-chair of the Student Development Committee, said the choices were made based on senior input. 
“These are all senior ideas and once we narrowed them down, we got in contact with the vari­ous departments to see what they need and if it’s feasible,” she said. 
Ian Secviar, the Student Development Committee’s other co-chair, said Notre Dame’s level 
see LEGACY/page 4 



Learning Tree provides teaching resources 
The Learning Tree provides games and learning materials that can be borrowed or pur­chased for a low cost. According to Fogle, the Learning Tree was started by a group of teachers in the 1970s as a South Bend school pro­gram. The program was moved to Saint Mary’s College in 2001. 
This fall, the facility was relo­cated from the third floor of Madeleva Hall to the present location on the first floor of Madeleva Hall. 
see LEARNING/page 4 


By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Recently relocated to a new facility on the first floor of Madeleva Hall, the Learning Tree offers a variety of resources for students, teach­ers within the community and the general public. 
“Our new location offers a larger workspace. It’s much brighter and cheerier. It’s a good working environment,” Jayne Fogle, director of the Learning Tree, said. 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Proposal looks to add alum to council 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) passed a resolution to propose the addition of a mem­ber from the Alumni Association to the council in its final meeting of the semester Monday evening. 
The newly created Task Force on Alumni Student Relations drafted and pro­posed the resolution to the council in hopes of ultimately receiving the approval from Fr. Mark Poorman in the Office of Student Affairs for the new member. 
Bridget Bredemann, the chairman of the committee, said the addition of a member from the Alumni Association to 
see CLC/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA approves sponsorships page 3  Best and worst study spots on campus page 10  Clausen, Tate to go to NFL draft page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, December 8, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Movie stars and music 
Pretty much since there have been movie stars, there have been movie stars making music. And it needs to stop. It nearly never turns out well for anyone involved. 
Let’s take, for a moment, the classic example of Scarlett Johansson, who seems to be the poster child of disap­pointing celebrity releases. Her prob­lem seems to stem from the fact that due to her celebrity, she manages to get herself in the most ridiculously precari­ous situations ever when it comes to making music. Her first album — as in, the very first record she ever recorded ever — was a collec­tion of Tom Waits covers produced by the imitable David Andrew Sitek (of TV on The Radio fame), which featured two of the three members of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, a couple of members of TV on the Radio and two guest vocal tracks by David Bowie. For all intents and purpos­es, it should have been the most awe­some album to come out that year as far as anyone who has ever read Pitchfork is concerned. 
But it wasn’t. And worse than that, the biggest problem with it was the suppos­edly central player: Scarlett. Even worse than that, she was actually kind of good. But therein lies the problem: to make an album that reflected the caliber of her collaborators and influences, the album that everyone was expecting (and deserved) she would had to be of the same caliber. Kind of good does not cut it when you have David Bowie popping in for a guest vocal. 
She managed a repeat offense earlier this fall when she released her second album, which was an album of duets with Pete Yorn inspired by Serge Gainsbourg and Brigitte Bardot’s duet albums from the 60’s. What a good idea! What a disappointing execution. 
In short (partially for all of those read­ers who I totally lost in the dozen musi­cians I recently referenced), she uses her celebrity to make these amazing projects happen with some really amaz­ing talent, and then cannot cash the check that her ambition wrote. Couldn’t write a check that was cashable by her skills? Cash any checks at a bank that wasn’t hers? I lost myself in that metaphor there, but I think you get the picture. 
Basically, it comes down to this: if you didn’t get famous for your music, it’s very unlikely that you can manage to pull off a crossover success (notable exceptions being Olivia Newton John and Zooey Deschanel, both of whom had singing bits in more than one movie they were in), because even if you manage to have a really great idea for a record AND get a ton of really great people to work with you on it, it’s massively hard to live up to the awesome that you’ve surrounded yourself with. 
Or, you know, you could just put out an awful record to begin with after working with no one of notoriety at all, Jennifer Love Hewitt. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY:  OW DID YOU FEEL ABOUT T E SNOW? 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 




“I’m from South “It’s delicious.” “Let it Snow!” Bend, so I’m over it.” 

“Hypothetically, if snow is white and white is the absence of color, theoretically, snow is nothing, therefore it doesnt exist.” 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 

“There should be enough to cancel finals.” 


OFFBEAT 

Texas homeowner dresses David as scantily-clad Santa 
BIG SPRING, Texas — A Texas homeowner who adorned his front lawn with Michelangelo’s “David” as a scantily clad Santa got more than just jolly laughs from his neighbors. Barry McBee said he was aiming to make people chuckle by adding a Santa hat and white beard to the 5-foot­tall replica of the Renaissance statue with six-pack abs — an image at odds with usual depic­tions of a fat, jolly St. Nick. 
Then, parents started calling Big Spring city officials saying their chil­dren were asking why Santa was naked. 
“I just like to shock people to make them laugh, kind of break the monotony around here,” said McBee, who has all kinds of animal yard ornaments in his garage. “I just bring them out occasionally.” 
Police follow 13-year-old girl in high speed chase 
LEBANON, Pa. — Police say a 13-year-old girl led state troopers on a nine-mile chase in central Pennsylvania at speeds of more than 100 mph. 
Authorities say the pur­suit started around 9:30 
a.m. Monday when troop­ers saw a driver weaving in and out of her lane on Interstate 81 in Swatara Township. 
Police say the driver wouldn’t stop when they tried to pull her over. 
The pursuit continued onto Interstate 78. Police say the girl finally stopped the 1994 Pontiac Grand Am on an off-ramp near Fredericksburg. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Daily Mass will be held in the Basillica of the Sacred Heart at 11:30 p.m. and 5:15 
p.m. today. 
A lecture titled “Coordinating among Opposition Parties in Authoritarian Elections” will be held in C-103 Hesburg Center. The lecture will begin at 12:30 p.m. today. 
The lunchtime workshop series “The Secrets to (Academic) Success and Making Your (Academic) Life Easier” will be be holding the discussion “Getting a Good Start Next Semester” today at 12:30 p.m. The series will be held in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary’s College. 
“In Situ Raman Spectroscopy Study of Oxidation of Nanostructured Carbons” will begin at 3:30 
p.m. today. The lecture will be held in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
Bible Study will be held in the Student Center Resource Room at Saint Mary’s College today. It will begin at 6 p.m. 
Mass will be held in Regina Chapel at Saint Mary’s College to celebrate the Immaculate Conception today at 9 p.m. 
A colloquium titled “Rare isotopes in cosmic explosions and in accelerators on earth” will be held in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. The coloquium will be held at 4 p.m. tomor­row. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Friday Saturday 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Coleman Collins at ccollin6@nd.edu 

HIGH 

CORRECTIONS 

35 HIGH 32 HIGH 35 HIGH 22 HIGH 27 HIGH 25 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 

publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 

Atlanta 57 / 43 Boston 44 / 34 Chicago 36 / 23 Denver 19 / 11 Houston 73 / 58 Los Angeles 58 / 47 Minneapolis 24/ 12 
New York 45 / 35 Philadelphia 44 / 33 Phoenix 58 /49 Seattle 32 / 22 St. Louis 43 / 27 Tampa 79 / 60 Washington 45 /35 
Tuesday, December 8, 2009 The Observer  NEWS page 3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
SGA discusses club sponsorships 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) looked at and discussed four club sponsorships and reviewed its own SGA bylaws at its meeting Monday night. 
The final sponsorship at the meeting sparked controversy when Le Mans Hall council requested money for their hall event, a Christmas ornament decorating night. The council failed to provide adequate doc­umentation of their expected costs and their request was denied. 
SGA is trying to set a prece­dent that documentation needs to be provided as part of their effort to avoid reimbursement. 
“This is a year of change for student government,” presi­dent Jenny Hoffman said. 
The board members have implemented changes in order to protect themselves and to make sure that students money is being used efficiently. This decision was a part of that effort. 
The first club to present a sponsorship request was Thespians Unplugged, the the­ater club, who will be attend­ing the American College Theater Festival in Saginaw, Mich. 
Ten club members will be attending this six-day confer­ence, which provides the stu­dents with opportunities to see performances, attend work­shops and compete for scholar­ships as well as to network with theater professionals and graduate programs, club treas­urer Katie Hoolsema said. 
SGA approved the club’s sponsorship and will be award­ing them funds towards their registration fees for the confer­ence and transportation. 
The College Republicans will also be receiving a sponsorship to attend the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Washington D.C. CPAC is a three-day conference of mostly students who attend workshops and listen to speak­ers, club president Caitlin Sullivan said. 
The College Republicans’ major goal at the convention this year will be to bring a speaker, political correspon­dent Tucker Carlson, back to campus. 
“Those attending the confer­ence will gain a greater under­standing of one of the key political groups affecting mod­ern day American politics,” Sullivan said in her proposal. 
The Holy Cross Hall Council is planning an ice cream social, and sponsorship was granted to them to help fund this event. The hall is also sponsoring an ongoing project sending letters to servicemen overseas, hall council president Kelly Zenere said. 
Included in their sponsorship request were funds to help this project, which were granted by SGA. 
The SGA executive board is going to be making a SGA handbook over Christmas break. The handbook will go out to all the clubs on campus and will outline the procedures for dealing with SGA and point them to the right offices for questions, Hoffman said. SGA is hoping this handbook with end snafus with sponsorships. 
The SGA board also approved their bylaws with only one notable change being made. The board decided to change the election policy for class executive boards so candidates will run on two-person tickets, president and vice president, as opposed to a four-person ticket that also includes secre­tary and treasurer. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@saintmarys.edu 

Arizona faces powerful snowstorm, winds 
rare dusting overnight, and snow was predicted for Fresno and other communities in California’s Central Valley. 
Bad weather stretched far to the east as well. The first snow of the season for much of Indiana tangled traffic and delayed schools. Crashes left one person dead. 
Reno schools closed, and many state government workers were told to stay home. Chains or snow tires were required across the region. Several flights into and out of Reno-Tahoe International Airport were delayed or canceled. 
“Motorists are going to have to chain up,” Trooper Chuck Allen with the Nevada Highway Patrol said. “Otherwise, we end up with a parking lot.” 
The storm was blamed for dozens of accidents and road clo­sures in the Flagstaff area, includ­ing a small stretch of Interstate 17 near a scenic overlook where a UPS truck lost its trailer and slammed into a barrier wall. 

Coloncancerdeathstodropduetobettertreatment 
Annual report shows cancer mortality rate continuing to decline since 1990 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Colon cancer deaths could drop dramatically in the next decade because of better screening and treatment, accord­ing to an optimistic new prediction by top researchers. 
The estimate was made in an annual report that shows that, overall, the U.S. cancer death rate is continuing to decline, as it has since the 1990s. 
The report released Monday focuses largely on cancers of the colon and rectum, which together are the third leading cancer killer in the United States. An estimated 50,000 people will die from it this year. 
The battle against colorectal cancer has been a growing suc­cess story: The death rate dropped roughly 20 percent in the last 10 years, according to American Cancer Society figures. 
The new report — by researchers at the advocacy group and other organizations — pre­dicts that death rate will drop even more over the next decade. By 2020, the rate could be half what it was in 2000, they said. 
The prediction assumes colon cancer screening and improved chemotherapy treatment will become more and more common, and colon cancer contributors like smoking and red meat consump­tion will decline. 
The prediction is “optimistic but realistic,” said Elizabeth Ward, who oversees surveillance and health policy at the American Cancer Society. 
But some other experts said such a large drop could require far-reaching changes in how many people eat a healthier diet, have health insurance and can get good medical care. 
“I think it’s a little bit more opti­mistic than realistic,” said Dr. Edward J. Benz Jr., president of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. 
The new report looks at cancer trends from 1975 through 2006. The Cancer Society and others reported 2006 cancer death statis­tics in May, but this report pro­vides further analysis and adds the predictions about colorectal cancer. 
Cancer is the nation’s No. 2 killer, behind heart disease, and accounts for nearly a quarter of annual deaths. 
While deaths rates from many of the major cancers have been declining, the rate for liver cancer has been increasing. In women, deaths from pancreatic cancer are rising. In men, esophageal cancer and melanoma deaths are increasing. 
There are differences among different racial and ethnic groups. Overall, cancer death rates are highest in black men and women. But pancreatic cancer death rates have been increasing for whites and not blacks. 
But overall, cancer diagnoses and death rates have declined sig­nificantly, a success attributed largely to improvements in screening and treatment and declines in smoking. 
The colorectal cancer death rate was about 17 deaths per 100,000 people in 2006. Better chemother­apy drugs have been used along with surgery to improve survival. And as of 2005, about half of U.S. adults aged 50 or older had had a recommended screening, such as a colonoscopy within the last 10 years or a stool blood test within the last year. 
“It seems to me that it’s a cas­cade of things that include med­ical science and technology advances,” said Dr. Michael Fisch, head of general oncology at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. 
Spaceship unveiled Monday 
Associated Press 
MOJAVE, Calif. — The sleek, bullet-shaped space­craft is about the size of a large business jet — with wide windows and seats for six well-heeled passengers to take a ride into space. 
It’s billed as the world’s first commercial spaceship, designed to be carried aloft by an exotic jet before firing its rocket engine to climb beyond the Earth’s atmos­phere. 
On Monday, Virgin Galactic took the cloak off SpaceShipTwo, which had been under secret develop­ment for two years. The com­pany plans to sell suborbital space rides for $200,000 a ticket, offering passengers 2½-hour flights that include about five minutes of weight­lessness. 
“We want this program to be a whole new beginning in a commercial era of space travel,” said Virgin Galactic founder Sir Richard Branson, who partnered with famed aviation designer Burt Rutan on the venture. 
The British billionaire hopes to begin passenger flights out of New Mexico sometime in 2011 after a series of rigorous safety tests. Branson said he, his family and Rutan will be the first to fly on SpaceShipTwo. 
SpaceShipTwo’s debut marks the first public appear­ance of a commercial passen­ger spacecraft. The white, stubby-winged spaceship sat in a Mojave Desert hangar, where it had been attached to the jet that will carry it to launch altitude. 
An official rollout for poten­tial space tourists, dignitaries and other VIPs was slated for later Monday. California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson were expected to christen the ship “Enterprise.” 
SpaceShipTwo is based on Rutan’s design of a prototype called SpaceShipOne. In 2004, SpaceShipOne cap­tured the $10 million Ansari X Prize by becoming the first privately manned craft to reach space. 
Since that historic feat, engineers from Rutan’s Scaled Composites LLC have been laboring in the Mojave Desert on a larger design suitable for commercial use. 
Some 300 clients have paid the $200,000 ticket or placed a deposit, according to Virgin Galactic. 
“NASA spent billions upon billions of dollars on space travel and has only managed to send 480 people,” Branson said. “We’re literally hoping to send thousands of people into space over the next cou­ple of years. We want to make sure that we build a spaceship that is 100 percent safe.” 
The last time there was this level of hoopla in the high desert was a little more than a year ago when Branson and Rutan trotted out to great fanfare the twin-fuse­lage mothership, White Knight Two, that will carry SpaceShipTwo. 


Associated Press 
FLAGSTAFF, Ariz. — A large and powerful storm howled across the West with snow and strong winds Monday, snarling traffic, closing schools and threat­ening to spawn mudslides in wild­fire-devastated Southern California. 
Virtually the entire region was suffering — from subzero wind chills in Washington state to heavy snow that closed schools and government offices in Reno, Nev., and left big rigs jackknifed across highways in several states. Blizzard warnings were in effect for northern Arizona and parts of Colorado, with forecasters pre­dicting up to 2 feet of snow around Flagstaff. 
The National Weather Service said the upper elevations of the Sierra mountains could get up to 3 feet of snow, with up to 4 feet forecast for the mountains of southern Utah. Even the hills east of San Francisco Bay received a 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 8, 2009 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
the committee would enhance the committee as well as pro­vide a way for the committee to receive feedback on the issue. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt echoed this statement, saying it would add an addi­tional voice to the committee. 
“The underlying reason is that the Campus Life Council has a lot of power,” he said. 
Schmidt also said there were numerous examples in the past where it would have been valu­able to have an alumni’s opin­ion. 
Before the resolution was passed, the members of the committee debated the content of the resolution. The biggest concern voiced by council members was over the voting power of the alumni if he or she were to be added as a per­manent member. 
Schmidt said all members of CLC are granted voting power. Therefore, if a member of the alumni association were appointed as a permanent member of the council, that person would be able to vote. 
The council voted to pass the resolution, which will now be passed on to Fr. Poorman for approval. 
The Task Force on Student 
Identity 
continued from page 1 
whose social security number, date of birth and full name were exposed, said. 
“I was just outraged,” she said. “That’s the information people need to open a bank account or credit card account. In these days of identity theft, I think that’s a really serious problem.” 
MacCormack said she was also upset by the way the University handled the data breach. 
“In the future, for start, do not send a letter of this nature, [which essentially said,] we made a mistake and you sort it out,” she said. 
MacCormack said she thought 
other steps should have been taken. 
“I think it should have automatically offered credit checks and said by responding to such and such an e-mail address you can set this up, to every-b o d y, ” MacCormack said. “I think some access to the general counsels office 
for, at the very least legal advice, should have also been automat­
ic. If you have a problem with identity theft, then consult x.” Gresik agreed the letter did not handle the error effectively. 
“I think the initial response was inadequate,” he said. “I think the University is working on trying to improve that response and I am confident in the near future they will be able to satisfy the concerns of the affected individuals.” 
Since mailing the letter, the University provided access to credit monitoring services for those who were affected, Wishon said. 
“For those with concerns, obtaining a credit report is the first step,” he said. “But [that] is Legal Services proposed a res­olution to receive the approval from the Office of Student Affairs to move forward on the online legal database, which the group has been working on throughout the semester. 
Task Force Chairman John DeLacio said while the approval from the Office of Student Affairs isn’t necessary for the creation of the data­base, it would provide Fr. Poorman with the opportunity to express his support or con­cern with the project. 
DeLacio also said this resolu­tion is the first of two, the lat­ter of which will come in the spring semester and will lay out a more detailed plan for student legal services. 
The discussion on the resolu­tion focused on clarifying that the specific purpose of the res­olution was only to gain a for­mal approval of student affairs rather than ask for financial backing for the database. 
The session was drawn to a close before the committee was able to come to a consensus on the resolution and vote on it. Conversation on the resolution will continue next semester. 
The third task force, the Task Force on Evaluation of Student Disciplinary Records, did not report at the meeting. 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 
something the University cannot do. It must be obtained by the individual.” 
MacCormack said she planned to use this service. 
“I’m going to set up the credit checks. If anything that looks like an identity theft seems to have occurred, I guess I will take some legal advice and pay for it,” she said. “But I do think that I shouldn’t have to pay for it.” 
Professor Mark Pilkinton said he and his wife, who works in the library, were both affected by the breach. 
“The University has been very good about informing us and providing proactive help to mon­itor our e-lives, credit checks, etc. to be sure nothing is amiss,” he said. “This was a huge snafu, and we’re all making the best of 

“That’s the information people need to open a bank account or credit card account. In these days of identity theft, I think that’s a really serious problem.” 
Sabine MacCormack professor 
it we can.” 
Wishon said the University also took steps to lessen the chances of a sim­ilar error occur­ring in the future. 
“Various tech­nical measures have been and 
more  will  be  
employed  to  
minimize  the  

probability of an inadvertent exposure of sen­sitive informa­
tion as well as measures to pre­vent more targeted intrusions by hackers,” he said. 
He said process changes were also made in the human resources department. 
“I think the likelihood of a sim­ilar situation occurring is pretty small,” Gresik said. 
Still, the problem lies in the fact it is impossible to tell whether someone accessed the personal information while it was on the Internet. 
“It is very likely, I gather, that no one actually accessed these records, but it was possible for them to do so, and that’s the concern,” Pilkinton said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at  smervosh@nd.edu 
Learning 
continued from page 1 
“Education majors come into the facility to make projects for their education classes and also then to use when they’re out in the field,” Fogle said. 
The Learning Tree specializes in making educational games that help teachers make learn­ing fun, Fogle said. Students have the opportunity to visit the resource center and either make or purchase games for the classroom. 
According to Fogle, Games are easy to make and cost 
Legacy 
continued from page 1 
of senior involvement in select­ing a gift was unique. 
“We take senior input from the beginning which is really different. Hopefully that trans­lates into more participation later on,” he said. 
Donations to the graduate school and job visitation/inter­view fund would allow students to visit their potential home after graduation without worry­ing about the costs, Everett said. 
“We all have friends going through the med school and grad school process. It’s a really expensive process and we know it’s hard for people to afford it,” she said. 
Andrew Schroeder, a senior, said having a graduate school and job visitation/interview fund would encourage students to apply to universities further away like Berkley or Stanford. 
“Notre Dame’s obviously try­ing to make itself more compet­itive as an undergraduate uni­versity and having students go which can be used for bulletin boards and learning games,” she said. 
The Learning Tree also fea­tures a work area with tables where students can spread out their work. 
“The work areas are available for them to work here. We have all the supplies to make all these different items,” Fogle said. 
The Learning Tree is open to the public each Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from noon to 5 p.m. Extended hours are available for students. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
between $1.50 and $2.50. 
“The games would break down skills. We may design a game to break down a skill so a student can understand the concepts,” Fogle said. 
The facility also offers lamina­tion for a nominal fee. 
“We have a laminator that can laminate up to 24 inches wide and we have book binding machines to bind individual sto­ries, class books or term proj­ects,” Fogle said. 
Fogle said some other resources the center offers include poster printing, resource books, textbooks and a die cut machine. 
“It cuts out designs and letters 
to Stanford, Princeton, etc. will help our undergraduate reputa­tion,” he said. 
The International Studies fund would provide financial assistance for students studying abroad. 
“We didn’t want anyone to miss out on this opportunity for financial reasons,” Everett said. 
Studying abroad was a crucial experience for senior Alex Augugliaro. 
“One of the greatest things about Notre Dame is the push to go abroad and if finances are the reason not to, I don’t think that should be a limiting factor,” he said. 
The Hesburgh Memorial Fund would support library renova­tions and help make Notre Dame’s main vein of intellectual material reach the standards of a top-tier institution. 
The Area of Greatest Need Fund was included as an addi­tional option for students who would prefer letting the University channel the funds as they see fit. 
Money for the gift comes from seniors and their parents. It is recommended that members of the 2010 graduating class con­tinue donating to their class fund after they graduate. 
If seniors donate at least $100 by Dec. 31, 2010, they will be eligible for the 2011 football ticket lottery. As 2010 gradu­ates, they are automatically eli­gible for the 2010 lottery. 
Notre Dame ranks among the top schools for total alumni giv­ing but has a significantly lower rate of participation from grad­uating seniors according to the Senior Legacy Web site. 
The Web site reports the per­centage of seniors who donate to the University directly impacts Notre Dame’s U.S. News and World Report rank­ing. 
This year’s senior class hopes to raise more money than the last, Everett said. 
“Last year they raised $79,000 and we’re trying to exceed that,” she said. 
The Class of 2009 created the Internship Assistance Fund with their donations. The Class of 2008 created the ECO Fund to further Notre Dame’s environ­mental initiatives. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Tuesday, December 8, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Iranian students hold mass protest 
TEHRAN, Iran — Tens of thousands of stu­dents, many shouting “Death to the Dictator!” and burning pictures of Iran’s supreme leader, took to the streets on more than a dozen cam­puses Monday in the biggest anti-government protests in months. 
Riot police and pro-government Basij militi­amen on fleets of motorcycles flooded Tehran’s main thoroughfares, beating men and women with clubs as crowds of demonstrators hurled bricks and stones. Some protesters set tires and garbage cans ablaze. 
“Death to the oppressor, whether it’s the shah or the leader!” the students chanted, according to witnesses — making a daring comparison between Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and the pro-U.S. shah, despised in Iran since his overthrow in the 1979 Islamic Revolution. 
U.S. visa-fraud scam busted in Brazil 
SAO PAULO — Authorities arrested 11 peo­ple Monday in an alleged U.S. work-visa scam that raked in more than $50 million from thousands of Brazilians since 2002. Some of those scammed went to the U.S. and wound up as illegal aliens because promised jobs didn’t exist. 
Brazilians seeking temporary working visas were charged up to $15,000 each in what a statement from the U.S. Consulate called one of the largest cases of U.S. visa fraud ever. Similar schemes were uncovered in Russia, the Dominican Republic, the Philippines, Romania and the United Arab Emirates. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Smart’s kidnapper stalked others 
SALT LAKE CITY — The estranged wife of Brian David Mitchell said he stalked other girls in Salt Lake City before targeting 14-year-old Elizabeth Smart in 2002, a psychiatrist testified Monday. 
Dr. Michael Welner said in federal court that Wanda Barzee told him Mitchell followed girls on buses and kept track of them but couldn’t get their addresses. 
Barzee said Mitchell knew Smart’s address because he had been hired to work on the roof of the family’s home by Smart’s mother, Welner said. 
“This is how she ultimately came to be target­ed,” Welner said while testifying at a hearing to determine if Mitchell is competent to stand trial on charges of kidnapping and unlawful trans­portation of a minor across state lines. 
Sex offender arrested in Belize 
FORT COLLINS, Colo. — A child sex offender who was featured on the television program “America’s Most Wanted” has been arrested in Belize. 
Police in Fort Collins, Colo., say 55-year-old Robert Michael Snyder was arrested Friday in Belize City and will be deported. 
Police said Monday that Snyder was released from jail Aug. 24, 2008, after he was convicted of two misdemeanor counts of unlawful sexual con­tact and one felony count of sexual assault on a child by a person in a position of trust. He was sup­posed to serve 10 years of probation after his release and register as a sex offender but disap­peared. 
After Snyder was featured Nov. 28 on “America’s Most Wanted,” Fort Collins police received a tip that he was living in Belize as an elementary school chess tutor. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Snowstorm sweeps across West 
FLAGSTAFF, Ariz. — A large and powerful storm howled across the West with snow and strong winds Monday, snarling traffic, closing schools and threatening to spawn mudslides in wildfire-devastated Southern California. 
Virtually the entire region was suffering — from subzero wind chills in Washington state to heavy snow that closed schools and gov­ernment offices in Reno, Nev., and left big rigs jackknifed across highways in several states. Blizzard warnings were in effect for northern Arizona and parts of Colorado, with forecasters predicting up to 2 feet of snow around Flagstaff. 
DENMARK 

Historic climate debate opens 
World leaders gather to address global warming as U.S. gives welcome boost 
Associated Press 

COPENHAGEN —The United States delivered a welcome boost Monday to a pivotal climate conference by saying greenhouse gases blamed for global warming should be regulated as a health hazard. 
The Obama administra­tion’s announcement came as delegates opened a meet­ing of 192 nations with emo­tional appeals to leaders in Washington and elsewhere to take stronger action. 
Such regulation by the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency would supplement the cap on car­bon dioxide emissions being considered in the U.S. Congress, effectively raising the U.S. offer on emissions reductions in two weeks of hard bargaining in Copenhagen. 
“The executive branch is showing what it can do, even while legislation is pending,” Rajendra Pachauri, chair­man of the U.N. scientific network on climate change, said of the EPA action. “It also sends a powerful signal to Congress. It shows a degree of resolve on the part of the president.” 
The conference climax will come when President Barack Obama and more than 100 other national leaders arrive for the final hours of talks next week. In preparation, Obama was meeting with former Vice President Al Gore, a leading climate campaigner, at the White House on Monday. 
Earlier in the day, the European Union had called for a stronger “bid” by the Americans, who thus far have provisionally pledged emissions cuts much less ambitious than Europe’s. 
The endgame in Copenhagen “will mostly be on what will be delivered by the United States and China,” the world’s two biggest greenhouse-gas emitters, European Union environment spokesman Andreas Carlgren told reporters. He said he would be astonished if Obama did not put more on the table. 

Whether the prospect of EPA action will satisfy such demands — and what China may now add to its earlier offer — remains to be seen. And success in the long-run­ning climate talks hinges on more than emissions reduc­tions. Most important, it requires commitments of financial support by rich countries for poor as they cope with the impacts of a changing global climate. 
“The clock has ticked down to zero. After two years of negotiations, the time has come to deliver,” Yvo de Boer, the U.N. cli­mate chief, said as he opened the conference in the chill and foggy Danish capi­tal. 
The conference president, Denmark’s Connie Hedegaard, called it a last, best chance. 
“Political will has never been stronger,” she told del­egates assembled in the Bella Center’s cavernous ple­nary hall. “And let me warn you: Political will will never be stronger. This is our chance. If we miss it, it could take years before we got a new and better one. If ever.” 
Some 15,000 delegates, environmentalists, business lobbyists, journalists and others are gathered in the huge convention center for the pivotal talks, along with thousands more outside, planning protests, street the­ater and scholarly discus­sions. The colorful global show demonstrates that the future of the Earth’s climate is the future of everyone, from Eskimos and Midwest farmers, to oil sheiks and African peasants. 
As climate talks have dragged on for two decades, the planet has continued to warm, something scientists blame largely on carbon dioxide and other emissions from the burning of fossil fuel and other industrial, transport and agricultural sources. On Tuesday, the World Meteorological Organization is expected to announce that 2009 ranks as one of the warmest years on record, and this decade as the warmest. 
CHINA 

Man still jailed despite call for reform 
Associated Press 

BEIJING — Police took Liu Xiaobo away one year ago, a day before the publication of a document he co­authored that called for more civil rights in China and an end to the Communist Party’s political dominance. The former professor has been held without charge ever since and allowed just two visits from his wife. 
Other Chinese bold enough to put their names to “Charter 08” — an unusually direct call for a new constitu­tion guaranteeing human rights, the open election of public officials, and freedom of religion and expression — have been interrogated or tailed by police as part of a government drive to quash the effort. 
A news blackout and Internet censor­ship have left most Chinese unaware that it exists. 
Still, a year later, about 10,000 people have signed “Charter 08” and several signatories said Monday that their aspi­rations are still alive. 
Beijing lawyer Mo Shaoping said the document marks a significant step for China and compared it to the document it was modeled on — a charter written by Vaclav Havel and others in 1977. That declaration helped pave the way for the 1989 Velvet Revolution that swept away the communist regime in what was then Czechoslovakia. 
“Only a few hundred intellectuals took part in Vaclav Havel’s Charter 77, so it was initially much smaller in scope than ours, but they kept at it and well, every­one knows how that turned out,” said Mo, who was barred from representing Liu, the document’s chief architect, because he too was a signatory. Two other lawyers from his firm have taken the case instead. 
Liu was detained Dec. 8, 2008, the day before the charter was released and held at a secret location for six months. The literary critic and former professor was formally arrested in June on suspi­cion of “inciting to subvert state power” 
— a loosely defined charge that carries a maximum sentence of 15 years. 

page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 8, 2009 
School dedicated to syrup educates students 
International Maple Grading School teaches the ‘ins and outs’ of maple regulation, clarity, color, density 
Associated Press 
SKOWHEGAN, Maine — Tasting maple syrup is a lot like tasting wine. Sniff the aroma, take a sip, hold it on your tongue and savor it for a moment to register the sensa­tion. 
At the International Maple Grading School, syrup is seri­
ous stuff. At a time when syrup production has boomed to its highest levels in decades, students here learn the sappy sweet nuances of the trade, such as how syrup flavor can be affected by soil type, weather, tree health, production practices and numerous other factors. 
“If you think about all the variables that go into produc­ing syrup, it’s not surprising there are so many possibili­ties,” Debra Hartford, who owns the Thurston and Peters Sugarhouse in Newfield, Maine, said after swirling and swallowing a sip of syrup to test her tasting abilities. 
Let there be no mistake: The subject matter was sickly sweet at this unique school, a two-day session of instruction where syrup buyers, produc­ers, inspectors and educators came together to learn the ins and outs of syrup regulations and the equipment that’s used to measure a syrup’s color, clarity and density. 
They also learned about the complex regulations govern­ing syrup, which vary among syrup-producing locales. For instance, different places have different names for the same syrup — the lightest grade is called “fancy” in Vermont, but is known as “light amber” in other states and “No. 1-AA” in Canada. 
But the most important thing about syrup, as anyone will tell you, is flavor. 
Late last week, students sampled more than three dozen syrups to differentiate the light varieties from the heavier styles and to identify the off-flavors of syrup that doesn’t make the grade. 
The syrup school, now in its sixth year, is sponsored by the Canada-based International Maple Syrup Institute and is held for two days at a differ­ent site each year. For the classes last week, about 20 participants gathered at the University of Maine Cooperative Extension offices in this central Maine town. 
“When we first cooked up this idea, we thought it would have a one-year run,” said Kathy Hopkins, a Cooperative Extension agent and the class instructor. “After the first year we had a waiting list. Now we’re on the sixth year and we’re booked four years out.” 
Maple syrup is big business. 
Production in the U.S. this year topped 2.3 million gal­lons, the highest total since 1944. Vermont is the No. 1 state by far, followed by Maine and New York. Syrup is even bigger in Canada, which produces around 6 million gallons a year. 
Between the U.S. and Canada, maple syrup has grown to a $200 million industry. 
The grading is important because it determines if the product can be sold for retail sales on store shelves, or for commercial use as an ingredi­ent in products ranging from ice cream to bacon to beer. The better the syrup, the higher the price; in 2008, the 

U.S. average price was $40.50 a gallon. 
Lisa Mancuso, who’s in charge of quality control at Bascom Maple Farm in Alstead, N.H., said the grad­ing system is important because customers have dif­ferent needs. 
For example, consumers generally like to douse their pancakes with a lighter syrup, which has a milder flavor. Food processors, meanwhile, may prefer darker and robust syrup. 
“We have a lot of customers who buy in bulk from us for ingredient purposes — large bakeries, sausage companies 
— so they want a heavy maple flavor because they’re blend­ing it with other ingredients,” Mancuso said. 
But the product isn’t always so sweet after sap is extracted from maple trees and boiled down into syrup every late winter and spring. 
For their training, students took sips of syrup out of small paper cups that had hints of tree buds, chemicals, chlorine and other off-flavors. The taste can go bad from warm weather, how it is produced or even how sugarhouse opera­tors clean their equipment, said Henry Marckres of the Vermont Agency of Agriculture, Food & Markets. 
“I once tasted a barrel of syrup you could blow bubbles with,” he said. 


Wanted man’s body found in car of vicitim 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. — Police on Monday found the body of a man wanted in two double homicides in Wisconsin in the car of one of his victims, a coroner said. 
Tyrone Adair, 38, died of a gunshot wound, Dane County Coroner Raymond Wosepka said at a news conference in Madison. He would not say whether Adair had shot himself. Madison Police spokesman Joel DeSpain said police were not looking for Adair’s killer. An autopsy was planned for Tuesday morning. 
Adair was charged Friday with killing 33-year-old Tracy Judd and 23-month-old Deja Adair, Judd and Adair’s daughter. He also was wanted in the deaths of 25-year-old Amber Weigel and 2-year-old Naveah Weigel-Adair. All four bodies were found Thursday. 
The four-day search set the Madison area on edge. Police alerted law enforcement agen­cies across the country about Adair and warned other women he knew. 
Nothing surfaced until Monday morning, when a land owner in Cottage Grove, a village of 1,000 people about 15 miles east of Madison, called police. He said he had located what turned out to be Judd’s GMC Acadia outside a storage shed on his property. 
The man told police it appeared the sport utility vehicle had been parked there for several days, DeSpain said. 
Investigators found a revolver and a 9-millimeter handgun in the vehicle. 
Mike Poskie, 66, of Cottage Grove said he was glad Adair was dead. He drove by where the vehicle was found to check it out. 
“I don’t feel sorry for the guy. I don’t. He eliminated the problem and saved us all a lot of money,” Poskie said as workers towed the Acadia to the state crime lab. 
Detectives suspect Adair killed Judd and Deja Adair on Thursday morning at the subur­ban town of Middleton home they shared, then went after Weigel and Weigel-Adair at their Madison duplex that evening, Dane County Sheriff David Mahoney and Madison Police Chief Noble Wray said, 
According to a police timeline, a surveillance camera at the Branch Street Retreat bar in Middleton picked up Adair around 2 p.m. He remained at the bar for about 45 minutes, then took a cab back to Judd’s house. 
He left the house in the Acadia around 4 p.m. He then left a “somewhat remorseful” voice­mail for his sister, Mahoney said. He would not say what the mes­sage said specifically. 

The Observer 

Business
Tuesday, December 8, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Obama, Gore meet on climate change 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama has met with former Vice President Al Gore at the White House as the president prepares for his appearance at a major international cli­mate summit in Copenhagen. 
Obama met with Gore in a closed meeting with no press coverage. 
The former vice president won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 for his work toward com-batting climate change. 
Obama is also meeting on Wednesday with environmental leaders and U.S. business lead­ers to discuss climate change. 
The president will be at the summit of world leaders on Dec. 18. 
GM to invest in Michigan facilities 
DETROIT — General Motors Co. said Monday it will spend $700 million at eight Michigan facilities to get its new recharge­able electric car road-ready — a technologi­cal and economic boost for its home state. 
GM officials detailed their investment plans for the Chevrolet Volt on the floor of its assembly plant that straddles the border between Detroit and tiny Hamtramck. The plant, which will begin mass producing the Volt in late 2010, is getting a $336 million upgrade that includes new machinery and other equipment. 
GM’s combined Volt-related investment also includes $202 million for a new plant in Flint that will build engine generators; $43 million for a plant in the Detroit suburb of Brownstown Township that begins making battery packs early next year; $37 million for a Bay City powertrain plant; and $27 million for the GM Tech Center in suburban Warren, home to the Volt’s battery laboratory. 
The state of Michigan last year approved $135.2 million in tax incentives for those sites and others. 
In a year that GM and Chrysler endured bankruptcy protection and announced the closure of nearly 30 plants in the U.S. and Canada, the news was as much a relief as celebration for the politicians and workers who attended the news conference. Many speakers welcomed the chance to talk about something other than the state’s economic woes. 
EPA: Greenhouse gas harmful 
Environmental Protection Agency study revealed in time for climate conference 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — The  
Obama administration took  
a major step Monday  
toward imposing the first  
federal limits on climate- 
changing pollution from  
cars, power plants and fac­ 
tories, declaring there was  
compelling scientific evi­ 
dence that global warming  
from manmade green­ 
house gases endangers  
Americans’ health.  
The announcement by  
the Environmental  
Protection Agency was  
clearly timed to build  
momentum toward an  
agreement at the interna­ 
tional conference on cli­ 
mate change that opened  
Monday in Copenhagen,  
Denmark. It signaled the  
administration was pre­ 
pared to push ahead for  
significant controls in the  
U.S. if Congress doesn’t act  
first on its own.  
The price could be steep  
for both industry and con­ 
sumers. The EPA finding  
clears the way for rules  
that eventually could force  
the sale of more fuel-effi­ 
cient vehicles and require  
plants to install costly new  
equipment — at a cost of AP  
billions or even tens of bil-Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson makes an  
lions of dollars — or shift announcement on the climate during a news conference in Washington Monday.  
to other forms of energy.  
Energy prices for many  problem. Obama will  tion as a threat to public  Robert Gibbs said  
Americans probably would  address the conference  health and welfare and  President Barack Obama  
rise, too — though  next week.  began to take public com­ “still believes the best way  
Monday’s finding will have  But business groups said  ments for formal rulemak­ to move forward is through  
no immediate impact since  regulating carbon emis­ ing. That marked a rever­ the legislative process” —  
regulations have yet to be  sions through the EPA  sal from the Bush adminis­ something Obama has  
written. Supporters of sep­ under existing clean air  tration, which had refused  expressed on a number of  
arate legislation in  law would put new eco­ to issue the finding, despite  occasions as he has  
Congress argue they could  nomic burdens on manu­ a conclusion by EPA scien­ pressed Congress to shift  
craft measures that would  facturers, cost jobs and  tists that it was warranted.  the nation’s energy priori- 
mitigate some of those  drive up energy prices.  EPA Administrator Lisa  ties away from fossil fuels  
costs.  “It will choke off growth  Jackson said Monday,  and to reduce climate- 
Environmentalists hailed  by adding new mandates  “There are no more excus­ changing pollution.  
the EPA announcement as  to virtually every major  es for delaying,” adding  The EPA said scientific  
a clear indication the  construction and renova­ that the so-called endan­ evidence clearly shows  
United States will take  tion project,” declared  germent analysis from  that greenhouse gases  
steps to attack climate  Thomas Donohue, presi­ global warming had been  “threaten the public health  
change even if Congress  dent of the U.S. Chamber  under consideration at the  and welfare of the  
fails to act. And they wel­ of Commerce, which in  agency for three years.  American people” and that  
comed the timing of the  recent months has been  After the official finding,  the pollutants — mainly  
declaration, saying it will  particularly critical of the  she said the agency is now  carbon dioxide from burn- 
help the Obama adminis­ EPA’s attempt to address  “obligated to make reason­ ing fossil fuels — should be  
tration convince delegates  climate change.  able efforts to reduce  reduced, if not by Congress  
at the international climate  The EPA signaled last  greenhouse pollutants  then by the agency respon­ 
talks that the U.S. is seri- April that it was inclined to  under the Clean Air Act.”  sible for enforcing air pol­ 
ous about addressing the  view heat-trapping pollu- White House spokesman  lution.  

Kennedy criticizes mining practice 
Associated Press 

CHARLESTON, W.Va. — Mountaintop removal mining in Appalachia is a crime, and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. said Monday that if the American people could see it, there would be a revolution. 
“We are cutting down the Appalachian Mountains, these historic landscapes where Daniel Boone and Davy Crockett roamed that are so much a part of American culture,” the environmental attorney said at a rally to stop blasting on southern West Virginia’s Coal River Mountain. 
“It’s God who made these mountains, and it’s (Massey chief) Don Blankenship who is cutting them down,” Kennedy said. 
Kennedy spoke as some 300 environ­mental activists cheered. At the same time, 200 coal miners jeered. The groups were kept apart by a line of state troopers and metal barricades. 
Massey plans to blast and mine thou­sands of acres atop the mountain, which has enough coal reserves to feed power plants for 14 years. Organizations includ­ing Coal River Mountain Watch and Climate Ground Zero want Massey to stick with underground mining and allow the ridges to be turned into a 200-turbine wind farm. 
Before taking the stage, Kennedy waded into the crowd of shouting miners and spent a half-hour debating Massey Vice President of Surface Operations Mike Snelling and others. 
“He’s very passionate about what he was doing and I have to give him enough credit for walking through a crowd of a lot of people he would consider adversaries,” Snelling said. “He just keeps talking about the environment and the concern for the environment and the mountains of Appalachia, and what we tried to tell him is that we are just as concerned about the mountains — or more than he is, for the fact that we live here.” 
The rally, held outside the state Department of Environmental Protection headquarters, was the latest of several demanding a halt to blasting on Coal River Mountain, which Massey calls contour and highwall mining, not mountaintop removal. But the protest was also about mountaintop removal and the harm that environmentalists say comes from burn­ing coal. 
In mountaintop removal, forests are clear-cut. Explosives blast apart the rock, and machines scoop out the exposed coal. The earth left behind is dumped into val­leys, covering intermittent streams. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, December 8, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Douglas Farmer Alicia Smith Jared Jedick Tess Civantos Chris Allen Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Kaitlyn Conway Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 
Too much faith in humanity 
Last November, an unknown source leaked more than 1,000 e-mails and technical documents from the Climate Research Unit at the University of East Anglia in Britain to the Internet. These documents reveal that a number of sci­entists within the Unit had engaged in some disturbingly unprofessional behavior in order to downplay, or in some cases eliminate, data that raised doubts about the anthro-Christie pogenic causes of Pesavento global warming. From data manip-Right Winging ulation and dele-It tion, to suppres­sion of evidence in response to a Freedom of Information Act request, to blacklisting journals whose editorial boards contain climate change skeptics, to subversion of the peer-review process, and finally to at least one threat of violence, it appears that these scien­tists would stop at nothing to prove that climate change is man-made. 

(For those interested, all the documents are available online at www.climate­gate.org). 
What is even more troubling than the e-mails themselves is the reaction to the revelations. A number of media outlets have refused to scrutinize the emerging scandal. Two weeks after the damning documents were released, ABC and NBC have only acknowledged their existence in an offhand manner. Instead of scruti­nizing the evidence, they still maintain that “the science is solid” and “the evi­dence is overwhelming that man is behind climate change.” 
The Obama administration has also failed to moderate its global warming alarmism, and is working in “full speed ahead” mode toward negotiations at Copenhagen’s climate change summit that the President will be attending. 
For its part, a working group for the United Nations’ International Panel on 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Climate Change released a statement stating that it “condemns the illegal act which led to private emails being posted on the Internet and firmly stands by the findings of the AR4 and by the communi­ty of researchers worldwide whose pro­fessional standards and careful scientific work over many years have provided the basis for these conclusions,” despite pre­vious calls for a full investigation of the documents. 
Jane Lubchenco, head of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, responded with this account of the situa­tion: “Our collective understanding of how the Earth is warming ... rests on a wealth of scientific information that is very diverse and comes from multiple sources and multiple groups. Regardless of what happened in one place, it doesn’t undermine the totality of what we know.” 
Ms. Lubchenco’s reassurances, howev­er, do little to quell the concerns among many as to the credibility behind the sci­ence of global warming, a speculative sci­ence that is based on computer models, which in turn rely on incomplete data and hardly-proven assumptions about how earth’s climate works. Denying this reality, especially when researchers have come under fire for pursuing a political agenda, will not make it go away. 
Patrick Michaels, a senior fellow in environmental studies at the Cato Institute, weighs in on the serious inter­national and domestic policy implications of the scandal: 
“Without the IPCC there would be no cap-and-tax legislation awaiting debate in the Senate. There would be no meeting in Copenhagen, where, next month, world leaders will attempt to globalize cap-and-tax. There would also be no pledge from President Obama to emis­sions reductions that have never been passed by the Senate.” 
One would hope that experts and ana­lysts would reconsider their conclusions about the imminent threat of global warming in light of possible corruption and data manipulation, especially when billion-dollar legislation is at stake. Instead, the Obama administration, the United Nations, the media, and even some in the scientific community have refused to recognize the gravity of the sit­uation. 
David Harsanyi of the Reason Institute explains why: 
“To many of these folks, the science of global warming is only a tool of ideology. To step back and re-examine their think­ing would also mean — at least tem­porarily — ceding a foothold on policy that allows government to control behav­ior. It would mean putting the brakes on the billions of dollars allocated to force fundamental economic and societal manipulations through cap-and-trade schemes and fabricated “new energy economies,” among many other intrusive policies.” 
When science, aided by allies in the media and politics, becomes an ends-ori­ented endeavor rather than an objective search for truth, the basis for knowledge crumbles, and society suffers the conse­quences. The emails and subsequent attempts at a cover-up may not disprove anthropogenic climate change, but they do cast serious doubt on the methods and motives of the scientists behind the claims. Climategate should provide ample reason for all to pause and reconsider the tremendous faith we have placed in the hands of mankind not only in the scientif­ic field, but in all realms of life. It may turn out that man’s capacity to control and manipulate the world is not a sound as some, particularly those who favor governmental engineering of social and economic systems, would like to think. 
As prominent 18th-century statesman and political philosopher Edmund Burke once wrote, “Vainglorious man, in the role of guide, equipped with a map com­piled from his own abstractions, would lead society to destruction.” 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
Who will be the next Notre Dame head football coach? 
Brian Kelly Bob Stoops Skip Holtz Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I've never quite believed that onechance is all I get.” 
Anne Tyler
U.S. novelist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, December 8, 2009 page 9 
Natural law 
“The crisis of … democracies,” said Benedict XVI in accepting the credentials of American Ambassador Miguel Humberto Diaz, a Notre Dame alumnus, “calls for … policies respectful of human nature and human dignity,” including “respect for the inalienable right to life from the moment of conception to natural death.” 
These remarks raise questions we ignore at our peril: Why do we have to be Charles Rice “respectful of human nature?” Right or And where do we Wrong? get “inalienable” rights? 

Do moral issues, in health care and else­where, reflect merely personal or sectari­an preferences? Or is there an objective moral order — a natural law — that deter­mines whether an act is right or wrong? In “her interventions in the public arena,” said Benedict to European parliamentari­ans on March 30, 2006, the Church draws attention to “principles which are not negotiable [including] protection of life in all its stages … These principles are not truths of faith, even though they receive … light and confirmation from faith; they are inscribed in human nature itself and therefore they are common to all humani­ty.” 
Natural law is neither a merely Catholic teaching nor even a Christian invention. Aristotle and Cicero affirmed it. Everything has a nature built into it by its maker. General Motors built a nature into your Chevy and gave you directions as to how to act in accord with that nature so the car will achieve its purpose. Our “Maker” has built a nature into us that we ought to follow if we are to achieve our goal of eternal happiness. 
We can know the law of our nature, as St. Thomas Aquinas put it, by “the light of natural reason, whereby we discern what is good and what is evil.” And our Maker has given us directions in Revelation, including the Ten Commandments which express the “principal precepts” of that natural law (Catechism, No. 1955). 
The first, self-evident principle of the natural law is, in Aquinas’ words, that “good is to be done and promoted and evil is to be avoided.” The good is that which is in accord with the nature of the subject. It is good to feed gasoline to a car. It is not good to feed it to a man. And it is not good, i.e., it is evil, to steal or murder, because such acts are contrary to the nat­ural human inclination to live in communi­ty. While we can affirm through reason the objective rightness or wrongness of acts, we generally have neither the right nor the ability to judge the subjective cul­pability of the person who commits that act. To be culpable, one must know the act is wrong and choose to do it. 
The natural law provides a standard for human law as well as personal conduct. Martin Luther King cited Aquinas when he said, in his Letter from Birmingham Jail, that “An unjust law is a code that is out of harmony with the moral law.” So, when Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat on the bus in 1955, she made a natural law statement. Legally enforced racial segre­gation is unjust and a civil law that man­dates it is void. 
“Moral truth is objective,” said John Paul II at World Youth Day in Denver, “and a properly formed conscience can perceive it.” But if reason were our only guide we would be in confusion. Our intellects are weakened by original sin and sincere advocates can be found on both sides of most moral issues. Aristotle, who had a pretty good LSAT score, sanctioned infanti­cide. Some Christians in the last century upheld the morality of slavery. Today peo­ple differ on the morality of abortion. They can’t both be right. As St. Thomas tells us, “If … we consider one action in the moral order, it is impossible for it to be morally both good and evil.” 
But whose natural law are you going to apply? As Supreme Court Justice James Iredell said in Calder v. Bull, in 1798, “The ideas of natural justice are regulated by no fixed standard: the ablest and the purest men have differed upon the subject.” If Iredell is right, the natural law is indeter­minate and relatively useless as a higher standard for law and a guide for human conduct. An authoritative interpreter is needed. “Christians,” however, said John Paul, “have a great help for the formation of conscience in the Church and her Magisterium. As the [Second Vatican] Council affirms: … ‘[T]he Catholic Church is by the will of Christ, the teacher of truth. Her charge is to … teach … that truth which is Christ … and confirm the princi­ples of the moral order which derive from human nature itself.’ … The Church puts herself … at the service of conscience, helping it to … attain the truth with cer­tainty.” Veritatis Splendor, no. 64. 
Everyone has a pope, an ultimate visible authority on moral questions. If that authoritative interpreter is not the real Pope, it will be a pope of the person’s own choosing, usually the person himself. It makes sense to say that we have only one Pope, not seven billion and that his name is Benedict because he is the successor of Peter to whom Christ gave the keys. 
“[F]undamental rights,” said Benedict, are “accorded universal recognition because they are inherent in the very nature of man, who is created in the image and likeness of God … [A]ll human beings … share a common nature that binds them together and calls for universal respect.” May 4, 2009. Every state that has ever existed has gone out of existence or will go out of existence. Every human being who has ever been conceived will live forever. That immortal nature of man, created in the image and likeness of God, is the basis of the inalienable, transcen­dent rights of man against the state. 
So when the Church speaks out against abortion, euthanasia, contraception and other intrinsic evils, she is not expressing merely some sectarian preference. Rather she incorporates the teaching of the natu­ral law on those and other issues into her teaching of Christ who is the Author of that natural law and whose birth, described by Benedict XVI as “the central event of histo­ry,” we celebrate in a few days. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at 574-633-4415 or rice.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Coaching search 
I have never felt compelled to write in or publicly express my feel­ings about our great University and its football dilemma until now. I have always respected the position of Notre Dame on academics and athletics and believe strongly that we can win and be a relevant force in the FBS (Football Bowl Subdivision) while maintaining academic standards. Having said this we have some to point in our programs history where we need a leader, a proven winner, someone who knows how to motivate and be motivated. I myself liked Charlie Weis but I believe that despite his great football mind he lacked that intangible that takes teams to a higher level. We have great players and they should settle for nothing less than greatness. 
That is why I am asking the our great university and our administra­tion to go get a winner and go get Brian Kelly. Don’t settle for less, don’t settle for a mid-level coach who handles crises well. Get a moti­vator, a coach and leader. Get us Brian Kelly. At the end of the day it always comes down to the players and their production on the field but it’s preparation and coaching that leads to production. 
Go Irish! 

Mark Bosbous 
alumnus class of 2001 Dec. 7 
Elevated discussion 
When I first read Mark Easley’s letter to the Observer, I was tempted to write a witty reply pointing out inaccuracies and do my best to delegitimize his argument. But Easley’s viewpoint is a snapshot of the larger debate rag­ing among the leading thinkers in our world. Instead of firing rhetoric back and forth in The Observer, why don’t we take this opportunity to elevate the discussion? Both sides, if you really think about it, want the same thing: a bright future for our nation and world. In that sense, we are all talking about sustainability here. 
Whether you think the icecaps are melting or this is just a bunch of greenwashing by crazy treehuggers, I challenge you to educate yourself. Go to the experts on both sides and find out what they think. Please, do not just read the Wall Street Journal or New York Times, but attempt to find the original source. Amazing scientists and scholars come to campus all the time, some even live and work on this campus. Go to some of their talks. Our world leaders will be making decisions in Copenhagen this week that will affect our lives. Don’t you want to know where they are getting their information? 
Alice Griesemer 
senior 
off campus 
Dec. 7 
Best band in the land 
I just wanted to take a brief moment to thank the Best D**n Band in the Land. We as players get most of the attention on Saturdays, but I can tell you, what you guys do for both us and the fans deserves to be commended. My favorite aspect of every home Saturday was walking up the tunnel before the game with all of you playing our fight song. Chills would shoot through my body each and every time. It brings a tear to my eye thinking I will never have the opportunity to do that with you guys again. 
Win or lose, you guys have always been there for us. Whether it was showing up to our prac­tices on occasion to play for us, or the group of about 20 who would show up at our buses on away weekends to remind us why this place is so special, to remind us that we play for THE University of Notre Dame. While I was crushed at the end of the UConn game, I knelt in the end zone afterwards and just thanked God for the incredible, life-changing experiences I’ve had at Notre Dame. The band continued playing while I was praying, and I was just overcome with how truly special this place is. Thank you to each and every one of you who puts in countless hours each week to help us win. I’m going to miss you all. We are ND. 
Mike Anello 
senior 
off campus 
Dec. 6 
Online abomination 
Online homework is an unnecessary hassle. Besides being frustrating due to technical difficul­ties, it takes up more time than regular, written homework, and thus is not a beneficial way to be taught. The majority of a student’s time is spent trying to discover how to please the Web site by submitting answers in the format it likes. Another issue is juggling all the things necessary to com­plete online homework. It becomes problematic when one has to go from computer to book to note­book and back to computer for every single prob­lem. It would be so much more time efficient if the computer were taken out of the equation; if this were done, all technological issues would be elimi­nated as well. 
Ironically, the two subjects most likely to have assigned web work are mathematics and chem­istry. The key to understanding problems in these subjects is to work them repeatedly, which is diffi­cult to do in a reasonable amount of time when working online. Also, it is easy to get caught up in inserting unusual symbols and figures and in doing so, lose sight of the problem itself. Why are we given assignments for the subjects that require the highest levels of comprehension in one of the most detached venues available: the Internet? The homework should help us learn, so the administra­tors should assign it in a beneficial format. 
This format, at least for math and science-related subjects, is written work. Though it may take longer for professors and TAs to grade, it is much more time-efficient and advantageous for the stu­dents, and isn’t the goal of any college or university to help students understand, and ultimately suc­ceed? Doing written rather than online homework in the science and math-based subjects would facil­itate their comprehension of the material. Yes, these young adults attending universities, especial­ly the University of Notre Dame, should be driven, and should have to work extremely hard. But it makes more sense for their efforts to be put into something productive, rather than spending their time dealing with endless technological glitches, especially when there is a more worthwhile way of learning. 
Danielle Guilfoyle 
freshman Badin Dec. 7 

The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Tuesday, December 8, 2009 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 

Just as Jack Frost is finally beginning to nip at our noses, so too are finals starting to bite at our heels. They are looming over our heads, and the idea of studying for them is daunting. To help out, the following is a list of the three best and the two worst study spots on campus. Criteria include proximity to caffeine and sugary snacks, potential for distraction and comfort. Let’s just hope these spots don’t fill up the night before your big Orgo exam. 
BEST 
1. Library Window Seats 

These are some of the best study spots on campus. The library is a quiet place to work with little to distract you from your studies, unless you bring your com­puter and leave Sporcle open. Also, by snagging one of the window seats, you do not feel stuck inside a cement prison, forced to study until your eyes bleed. Instead, when you find yourself stumped or just completely overwhelmed, you can take a calming breath and just look out across the beautiful Notre Dame cam­pus. Furthermore, you can stop by the Huddle on your way over for some caf­feinated beverages and candy to sustain yourself throughout the night. A word of advice, though: grab these spots early, as they fill up quickly, even though there are a few on each floor. 
2. LaFortune Booths Behind Subway 
These spots are excellent alternatives if all the window seats fill up. The booths are far enough away from the hustle and bustle of LaFortune, affording studiers a level of isolation conducive to extreme focus. Also, the seats offer the easiest access to caffeine, sugar and other deli­cious food than any other study locale. If you live on West or South Quad, the shorter walk is also very appealing. The noise, however, is unavoidable, but an iPod loaded with classical Christmas songs will drown out the noise, improve your studying and put you in the right mood for Friday when you head home for the holidays. 
3. Mendoza Commons 

Mendoza provides a terrific alternative to LaFortune. There are many comfort­able study areas inside the building, from small tables under the stairs to couches in the Business Information Center (BIC). As Mendoza lies further away from the dorms than other build­ings available for study, it will most like­ly have less occupants to create noise. There is, however, the longer walk to contemplate. Also, the café closes at 5 p.m., so remember to bring snacks from home. 
WORST 

1. The Futon In Your Dorm Room 
Despite the immense comfort your futon or couch gives you, studying on it may not be your best idea. Unfortunately, it is the comfort itself that will lead to your studying downfall. Inevitably, in your sleep-deprived state, you will curl up, declare you are only going to nap for 20 minutes, set your phone alarm and close your eyes. Two-plus hours later you will wake up to find that, contrary to popular belief, sleeping on your “History of the Roman People” textbook will not help you absorb facts about Augustus’s evolution of the Republic into the Principate. Valuable study time will have been lost. Furthermore, unless you illegally set up a coffee maker or hot water heater in your room, caffeine will be out of easy reach. Overall, the opportunity cost of comfort is not worth the hours of study­ing you will lose. 
2. Any 24-hour Lounge 

The PDA you will undoubtedly witness in these lounges negates any of their advantages. After parietals, these areas are full of couples studying, playing games or watching movies. The sweet nothings you will hear floating through the air may sicken you. General rule, just avoid the area if you are not one of those couples. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
By MATT BROWN 
Scene Writer 
Every Christmas season comes along with a decision that holds within it the power to make it a time to remember or an experience that you wish you could forget. Sugar plums dancing, St. Nick HO HO HO­ing and Christmas caroling are all vital components to a successful yuletide season but in this modern age I dare say that we must add one more box to our holiday checklist, that of the Christmas eve movie. 
Now this is not a choice to be made lightly, there are many Christmas movies and all have merit, all have their place: “Elf, ” “A Christmas Story, ” “Bad Santa.” But to me there will never be a movie made that can usurp the Christmas eve throne of the “Muppet Christmas Carol.” 
“Muppet Christmas Carol” com­bines everything you love about the story: Scrooge, ghosts, tender moments with the Muppets we know and love like Beaker, Animal, Kermit, Rizzo, Gonzo, even Statler and Waldorf. 
Kermit and Michael Caine give the performances of a lifetime as Bob Cratchit and Ebenezer Scrooge respectively with seamless give and take that shows why they have been two super­stars of the act ­ing world for their entire profes ­sional careers. 
The Mupp ets add a fan­tastic twist to this classic tale with unfor­gettable songs and hilarious moments which, added with flaw ­less interaction between the human actors and their less than biological co-actors, actually have you believ­ing that the Muppets are a part of this world. 
The Great Gonzo knows the story like the back of his hand narrating as Charles Dickens and Rizzo adds enough doubting and side comments to keep him guessing and the audi­ence laughing. Their antics as they attempt to follow Scrooge on his journey through time and space to save his Christmas spirit are flat out hilarious whether you are 5 or 55. The rats combine to make a diligent work force under Scrooge despite the chilled conditions of the office and the ice-skating penguins may be the highlight of the opening song and credits. 
The plot is basically identical to the one we all grew up with, know and love but with plenty of Muppets to make it approximately a bajillion times better. 
The Ghost of Christmas past takes him to see Sam the Eagle, his old school teacher, and also Fozzy Bear, owner 
of Fozzywig’s Rubber Chi cken Factory, famous for his Christmas soirees where Scrooge had his first job. From there he meets the ebul­lient ghost of Christmas Present who wastes no time 
inviting him to “Come in and know me better man!” Scrooge then proceeds to travel through Christmas celebrations and I’ll just leave you with this: at some point Rizzo is dancing on a turkey. 
The third and final ghost is actual­ly pretty frightening for a Muppet creation and this Ghost of Christmas Future shows Scrooge what will hap­pen if he doesn’t change his ways. 
I won’t ruin the ending for you but 
I’m gonna go out on a limb here 
and say that you, reader, may 
know what comes next. But if 
you have not seen the 
movie you have no idea 
the joyful Christmas 
ride that you are miss­
ing. 
Ladies and gentle ­
men, do yourself a 
favor this Holiday 
season. This 
Ch ris tma s 
eve, curl 
up with 
your 
mom, dad, 
siblings or 
dog, pop 
in the 
“Muppet Christmas Carol” and get caught up in the joy of the season. Christmas is a magical time that only comes once a year, give your all, love your all and Merry Christmas to all, to all … a good night. 
Contact Matt Brown at mbrown14@nd.edu 



Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, December 8, 2009 page 11 

By ERIC PRISTER 
Scene Writer 

The English oratorio “The Messiah,” originally composed by George Frideric Handel, held well to the tradition of the composition and was performed excellently by Notre Dame’s official concert choir, the Chorale. 
In a modern context, only the first of three parts of “The Messiah” are performed, and the Chorale did the same, replacing the final song of the first part with the most famous song of “The Messiah, ” the ‘Hallelujah ’ chorus, which brought the entire crowd to their feet and which earned a solid amount of applause fol­lowing the show. 
Handel composed “The Messiah” in 1741 and revised it throughout his life. It premiered in Dublin, with Handel himself playing the harpsichord for the performance. 
The oratorio, which is often per ­formed around Christmas, utilizes gospel first, which is the most frequently performed part, deals mainly with the birth of Christ, and the prophecies that predicted the coming of a savior. The lyrics for this part come mainly from Isaiah and are supplemented by passages from Haggai and Malachi. 
The second part dealt with the passion, death, resurrection and ascension of Jesus, and was meant to conclude with the famous ‘Hallelujah’ chorus. The third part then deals with prophecies of the second coming, mainly from the book of Revelation. 
The star of the show was certainly senior tenor Joshua Diaz, who performed the first recitative, “Comfort ye, my people,” and the first aria, “Every valley shall be exalted.” He finalized his perform­ance by singing the final aria before the ”Hallelujah” chorus, ‘Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron,’ and he received the longest ovation after this capstone. 
His voice was powerful and clear, two of the most important parts of performing a composition like “The Messiah,” which has lyrics that can become incomprehensible if not sung well. The lyrics serve as one of the main connections between the audience and the performers, and Diaz perfectly accomplished this task. 
The most impressive part of the show, particu­larly from the aspect of a college student, was that it has the ability to hold the interest of its listen­ers. 
Unlike many compositions from the time period, “The Messiah” is sung in English, which helps to keep the interest of those listening. Its music is also lively enough to keep the enjoyment level high, even for those who don’t have an affinity for classical music. 
“The Messiah ” is likely performed around Christmas because of the upbeat nature of the music, by which one cannot help but be uplifted. Though it is to see the Chorale’s excellent per­formance of the Handel’s most famous work, this reviewer highly recommends finding a CD of the performance to truly get oneself into the Christmas spirit. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


pas­sages taken from the King James Bible to celebrate the prophecies and birth of Jesus, set to poly­phonic choral pieces accompanied by arias and recita­tives. The pas ­sages come pri­marily from the Old Testament, focusing on prophecies of the birth of a savior; the lyrics were composed by Charles Jennens, who borrowed mainly from the King James 
Bible, except for the Psalms. Originally, “The 
Messiah” was com ­posed in three parts. The 


By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 

“Bright Star”, written and directed by Oscar winner Jane Campion, tells the story of poet John Keats and his sort-of lover, Fanny Brawne. Campion’s lush and breathtaking ren­dering of this happy-then-tragic tale is sure to draw a lot of attention come awards season this spring. The film features an excellent script full of wit, passion and levity, is shot with a stun­ning eye, and the cast gives what must be some of the finest performances of their respective careers. Some may recognize Paul Schneider, otherwise known as Mark Brendanawicz from “Parks and Recreation,” as well as Thomas Sangster, that cute kid from seasonal favorite “Love, Actually.” 
John Keats and Fanny Brawne’s romance hardly seems like a whirl­wind, but it comes out of nowhere. It is established early in the film with the clear attraction between the poet and the hopeful seamstress. But while their emotions progress quickly, their rela­tionship is forced to remain stagnant as Keats has no living and therefore cannot marry. 
As Keats, Ben Whishaw is generous and soft-spoken. But his love comes across powerfully in the slightest glance from his glassy eyes. The object of his affection, Fanny, is played remarkably by Australian actress Abbie Cornish. She has been garnering the most praise for her subtle portray­al of the untouchable object of a poet’s affection. Her name will surely be heard frequently once March rolls around. Both actors manage to infuse a story about a love that cannot be, written in the heightened prose of the early 1800’s, with humor and some­thing that feels very much like real life. 
To some, “Bright Star” is just anoth­er period piece where fancy costumes take the lead. But what Campion, Whishaw, Cornish and the rest of the cast and crew have managed to cap­ture in this film is that feeling of real timelessness that so many other period pieces forget. It doesn’t feel like the story of a couple living 200 years ago. It feels like a painful and fractured love affair that is compelling even to the most cynical modern audience. “Bright Star” never feels contrived, and it deserves more than the period-piece label attached to it. 
In true period piece fashion, howev­er, the scenery and cinematography do take a central role in the narrative. Campion’s scenes, particularly those outdoors, are rich with the vibrancy and excitement of Keats and Fanny’s natural surroundings, framing their love story with the flowers, tree and butterflies Keats so eloquently wrote about in his poems. The word ‘frame,’ though, is significant. Campion’s eye for detail simply adds to the story, never detracting or distracting from the central narrative. 
“Bright Star,” which played at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center this past weekend, is an unexpected movie. Unexpected because, even in the height of their restraint, the passion that Keats and Fanny show for each other, physically, verbally and emotion­ally, seems so unlike that seen in other comparable period pieces. Despite their cold and distant outward appear­ances, their love is evident from the beginning, making the ending, when their feelings finally burst out of them, all the more heart-wrenching. This isn’t “Pride and Prejudice” and this isn’t “Titanic.” It’s a new love story that falls into so many different cate­gories, but stands on its own nonethe­less. 
“Bright Star” will be released on DVD on Jan. 26, 2010. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
Bright Star 
Jan Chapman Pictures 
Director: Jane Campion Starring: Ben Whishaw,Abbie Cornish, Paul Schneider, Thomas Sangster 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, December 8, 2009 
NFL 

Goodell urges Dolphins to upgrade stadium 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — NFL commissioner Roger Goodell says the Miami Dolphins’ stadium needs more upgrades if South Florida is to remain competitive in bidding for future Super Bowls. 
The 22-year-old stadium underwent $250 million in improvements in 2007 but is still falling behind the competition with new stadiums opening in Dallas, Phoenix, Indianapolis and New York, Goodell said Monday. 
Miami will host the Super Bowl for an NFL-record 10th time Feb. 
7. Goodell spoke at a kickoff luncheon for the game. 
“They’ve done a great job host­ing Super Bowls here in the past,” Goodell said. “The key thing is to make sure the stadium is state of the art and that it can compete with the stadiums in some of these other communities. They are moving to another level in some of these stadiums.” 
Deficiencies with the Dolphins’ home include lighting and the location of lower-level seats, which are not close to the playing field. The league doesn’t seek a retractable roof, Goodell said. 
Dolphins owner Stephen Ross said the franchise is studying possible upgrades. It’s unclear whether the team and league will seek public money. Ross said the Dolphins have yet to come up with a cost estimate or a pro­posed source of funding. 
“We’re looking at different ideas,” Ross said. “We’re still in the planning stage, and it’s pre­mature to talk about dollars. We know it’s hard to put up dollars in South Florida in this economy. 
“We’re trying to keep it as low as possible and work with the league. We’ve got to show a package. That’s what we’re look­ing to do — put together a pack­age.” 
A new stadium isn’t being con­sidered, Ross said. 
The Pro Bowl will be played in Miami for the first time Jan. 31. Goodell supported experimenting with a new location and schedule slot for the all-star game, which in recent years has been played in Hawaii the week after the Super Bowl. 
“If this doesn’t work out, it will be my fault,” Goodell said. 
On other subjects, the commis­sioner said: 
—Players perform in a “very safe environment,” thanks in part to recent stricter league guide­lines regarding concussions. “We’re all learning more about concussions, the medical commu­nity as well as the NFL. We’ve been studying this for 15 years and have changed our policies as the medical science becomes more advanced. Everyone is treating this more conservatively, as they should. It’s a serious injury, and you have to be care­ful. You want to make sure it heals properly.” 
—Negotiations on a new labor agreement are progressing slow­ly, with another meeting sched­uled this week. “The good news is we’re talking. It’s pretty clear that things don’t happen until you get your back up against the wall a little bit. I would expect as we get a little closer to an uncapped season (in 2010) that things will be a little more focused.” 
—Despite the league’s plan to cut a $100 million annual supple­mental revenue-sharing program that subsidizes lower-revenue franchises, teams will still spend competitively. “We have great revenue sharing in the league. We have a number of systems we have collectively bargained that will ensure that.” 

—He doesn’t expect the over­time format to be altered, despite many suggested changes. “I actu­ally think the overtime system has worked pretty well for the NFL.” 
—Benefits for former players will be improved. “We need to do more, and we will do more.” 
Rodney Barreto, chairman of the South Florida Super Bowl Host Committee, said the need to upgrade the Dolphins’ stadium is a community issue. 
“The community has to come together and say, ‘Look, is this important for us? Do we want to keep doing this?’” Barreto said. “Football is going to be much bet­ter if we can be a football-only stadium.” 
Founding Dolphins owner Joe Robbie paid to build the stadium at a cost of $115 million, and it opened in 1987 as a multi-use complex. It has been the Florida Marlins’ home since their first game in 1993, and they’re sched­uled to move into their new ball­park in 2012. 
“With the Marlins leaving in a couple of years, there’s an oppor­tunity to make this truly a foot­ball stadium and make it a great facility that can host multiple Super Bowls,” Goodell said. 
NFL 

Bengals’ schedule gets tougher with Vikings and Chargers 
The next two weeks will go a Oakland 20-17, beat Cleveland be playing to the level of our line to one side. Cedric Benson 
Associated Press 

long way in deciding whether the 16-7 and then finished off the competition and not below it.” returned after missing two 
CINCINNATI — The easy times AFC North leaders clinch a play-Lions. Cincinnati has given up Coach Marvin Lewis criticized games with a hip injury and ran are over for the Cincinnati off spot and get some home-field only 187 points, the fewest in the his team at halftime against the for 110 yards against Detroit, but Bengals. advantage. The Bengals (9-3) league, and ranks sixth overall in Lions for playing down to their averaged only 3.1 yards per 
The Bengals secured their sec-trail Indianapolis (12-0) for the rushing. level. Cincinnati managed only carry against a defense that was ond winning record in 19 years best record in the AFC and The wins at home against the 47 yards in the first quarter, and geared to stop him. by winning two of three during a home-field advantage throughout Browns and Lions were so hum-the defense got pushed around “They said, ‘If we got in a situ-stretch of games against strug-the playoffs. They’re tied with drum that fans repeatedly booed. initially. They also had stretches ation where we have to stop the gling teams, including a 23-13 San Diego (9-3) for the second-The offense knows it will have to against the Raiders and Browns run, we’ll throw some exotic victory on Sunday over the best record, making the next two score more points — one of their when they didn’t show a lot of things in there,’” offensive tackle Detroit Lions. Now comes crunch weeks very important. touchdowns against Detroit came crispness or emotion. Andrew Whitworth said. time: On the road against “At this point in the season, on an interception return — to “I guess people would say this The Bengals have had three Minnesota and San Diego. you want to peak,” Palmer said. keep up with the Vikings and was a hard three-game stretch different backs — rookie Bernard 
And the level of play that got “You want to play your best foot-Chargers. for us as far as keeping the Scott, newcomer Larry Johnson them through the last three isn’t ball in late December and Minnesota (10-2) has scored focus,” Lewis said. “If it was, and Benson — top 100 yards in going to work against those first-January. We have two big weeks 359 points, second only to New then it was. Now we get to go do each of the past three games, the place teams. ahead of us with Minnesota and Orleans. what we need to do, and that’s go first time that’s happened in the 
“If there’s anything we’re guilty San Diego.” “Especially going into a dome play the Vikings. There will be no NFL since 2006. of, it’s playing to the level of our In the past three, they’ve been next week, it’s going to be very excuses now.” “That’s pretty big-time in this opponents,” quarterback Carson less than the best. critical for us to be at our best,” The one constant on offense league because you’ve got to run Palmer said. “When we’ve played The defense and the running receiver Chad Ochocinco said. has been the running game. the ball to win championships, no good teams, we’ve played better. game have been their two con-“I’m sure that’s what we’re going Cincinnati has brought in an doubt about it,” Benson said. It was hard not to look forward stants against down-and-out to do. I’m sure next week it will extra offensive lineman to block “The guys up front are making to these two upcoming games.” teams. The Bengals lost in be the other way around: We’ll on some plays, overloading the that happen.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Considering Adoption? Do not go it alone. ND Alums Hoping to Adopt. 

WANTED FOR RENT FOR SALE PERSONAL Notre Dame has If you are an expectant mother 
many resources in place to assist searching for a family, PART TIME WORK OFF-Campus housing, Sorry Charlie If you or you. please see our website at $14.25 base-appt., Irish Crossings and Dublin Village someone you If you or someone http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­no experience needed, 3 and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur-T-Shirt available at care about you love needs file.net. customer sales/service, nished. has been confidential support ——————————————— 574-273-3835. January and June 2010 leases sexually assaulted, or assistance, A, B, C ——————————————— available. http://stores.ebay.com/A-Tee-Shirt-we can help. please call Easy as... Singers for new pop group. www.cespm.info Revolution For more information, Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or 1, 2, 3 
Call visit Ann Firth at 1-2685. Or simple as... 574-968-0112 Notre Dame's For more information, Do re mi ——————————————— Discounts for website: visit ND's website at: A, B, C, 1, 2, 3, baby, you and me 
Info 574-261-6857 andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES ND Students. http://csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu girl! ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, December 8, 2009 
page 13 

NCAA Men’s Basketball Division I AP Top 25 
team W-L previous 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Suh, Ingram among Heisman finalists 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 

Kansas  7-0  1  
Texas  6-0  2  
Villanova  8-0  3  
Kentucky  8-0  5  
Purdue  7-0  4  
West Virginia  5-0  7  
Syracuse  8-0  8  
Duke  7-1  6  
Tennessee  6-1  11  
Florida  8-0  13  
North Carolina  7-2  10  
Michigan State  6-2  9  
Ohio State  7-1  15  
Connecticut  6-1  14  
Georgetown  6-0  16  
Texas A&M  7-1  19  
Washington  6-1  12  
UNLV  7-0  24  
Cincinnati  5-1  22  
Wisconsin  6-1  NR  
Gonzaga  6-2  17  
Butler  6-2  23  
Texas Tech  8-0  NR  
Georgia Tech  6-1  NR  
Mississippi  7-1  NR  

NCAA Men’s Basketball USA Today/Coaches’ Top 25 
team W-L previous 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 

Kansas  7-0  1  
Texas  6-0  2  
Villanova  8-0  3  
Kentucky  8-0  4  
Purdue  7-0  6  
Syracuse  8-0  7  
West Virginia  5-0  8  
Duke  7-1  5  
Tennessee  6-1  12  
North Carolina  7-2  11  
Florida  8-0  17  
Connecticut  6-1  13  
Georgetown  6-0  14  
Michigan State  6-2  9  
Ohio State  7-1  15  
Washington  6-1  10  
UNLV  7-0  21  
Texas A&M  7-1  22  
Cincinnati  5-1  24  
Butler  6-2  20  
Georgia Tech  6-1  23  
Gonzaga  6-2  16  
Wisconsin  6-1  NR  
Vanderbilt  6-1  NR  
Clemson  7-2  NR  

Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Tim Tebow added another Heisman first to his long list of accomplishments just by being selected a finalist for this year’s tro­phy. 
Tebow became the first player to be invited to the Heisman Trophy presenta­tion ceremony three times when the Florida quarter­back — along with Colt McCoy, Mark Ingram, Toby Gerhart and Ndamukong Suh — was named a final­ist Monday for college football’s most prestigious player of the year award. 
“Having the chance to go back to New York means a lot to me,” Tebow said in a statement. “It is a special honor but it wouldn’t be possible for me to have this opportunity without my teammates and coach­es.” 
The Heisman Trophy will be awarded Saturday in Manhattan. The presen­tation ceremony has been televised since 1981 and since 1982 at least three players have been invited to attend. 
The last time as many as five players were invited to New York was 2004, when USC quarterback Matt Leinart won the award. 
Tebow, who was the first sophomore to win the Heisman in 2007, is trying to become the second two-time Heisman winner, joining Ohio State’s Archie Griffin. Tebow finished third in the voting last year, while getting the most first-place votes. 
He’s also the first player to finish in the top five of the Heisman voting three times since Georgia tail­back Herschel Walker did it in the early 1980s. 
McCoy was the runner-up last season to Oklahoma’s Sam Bradford and has led No. 2 Texas to the BCS national champi­onship game this season. 
Ingram has rushed for 1,542 yards and scored 15 touchdowns for No. 1 Alabama. 
Stanford’s Gerhart, meanwhile, has run for more yards (1,736) and scored more touchdowns 
(26) than any player in the nation. 
And Nebraska’s Suh had 4 1/2 sacks in an atten­tion-grabbing perform­ance against Texas in the Big 12 title game. He is the first defensive player to be a finalist since 1997, when Michigan corner­back Charles Woodson became the first full-time defensive player to win the Heisman. 
Tebow and McCoy entered this season as heavy Heisman favorites, but neither has been as productive this season as last and neither will go into Saturday’s presenta­tion as the front-runner. 
IN BRIEF 

Yankees trade Bruney to 
Washington at meetings 
INDIANAPOLIS — Brian Bruney was dealt Monday to the Washington Nationals from the New York Yankees for a player to be named in the first trade of the winter meet­ings. 
The 27-year-old right-hander was 5-0 with a 3.92 ERA in 44 regular-season appearances but pitched just once for the Yankees from mid-April until mid-June because of a strained right elbow, an injury he blamed on time he spent warming up during an umpires' video review. 
“I’ve heard a lot of good things about him, kind of a power arm to go toward the end of our bullpen, and just we feel like we needed a little help out there,” Nationals manager Jim Riggleman said. “He's got expe­rience, and he's got a good arm.” 
Riggleman, who took over as Nationals manager in July, isn’t wor­ried about Bruney's elbow. 
Jets QB Sanchez misses 
practice, may still play 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Mark Sanchez did not practice for the New York Jets on Monday while recovering from a sprained right knee, but coach Rex Ryan is opti­mistic about the rookie quarter­back's chances of playing Sunday at Tampa Bay. 
Sanchez sprained the posterior cruciate ligament in the knee while diving for a first down in New York's 19-13 win over Buffalo on Thursday night. 
“He’s so much better,” Ryan said. “We thought we were going to get good news from the MRI, we did. Just the way he’s approaching his treatment and rehab and every­thing else, you can tell he is defi­nitely willing. That’s for sure.” 
Ryan said Sanchez spent the majority of the weekend at the team’s facility rehabilitating the injury. 
Collaros to avoid jail time, 
join offender program 
CINCINNATI — Cincinnati backup quarterback Zach Collaros avoided jail time by signing up for a first-time offender program. 
Collaros on Monday told Hamilton County Municipal Judge Bernie Bouchard that he had signed up for the court-mandated, eight-hour class on the ills of underage drinking. Bouchard accepted his guilty plea to an underage drinking charge, which will be erased upon completion of the program. 
Now 21, Collaros was 20 when cited for presenting a fake ID to get into a bar near campus. Bouchard last month sternly threatened him with jail if he didn’t get moving on the pro­gram, warning him that skipping it isn’t like “blowing off” a math class. 
On Monday, Bouchard asked Collaros what he had learned, and the youth replied: “Just be account­able.” 



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball Butler vs. Georgetown 7 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA Men’s Basketball Indiana vs. Pittsburgh 9 p.m., ESPN 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, December 8, 2009 
MLB 

Herzog and Harvey elected to Hall of Fame 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Whitey Herzog spent a good, long time stewing about a blown call in the 1985 World Series. So in a strange way, perhaps this fits: He’s going into the Hall of Fame, standing next to an umpire. 
Herzog and prominent crew chief Doug Harvey got the call Monday, elected to the Hall by the Veterans Committee. 
Herzog was a single vote short in his previous try, and might’ve made it sooner with another crown on his resume. But he was forever linked to Don Denkinger after the ump’s infa­mous miss in Game 6 so long ago cost the St. Louis Cardinals a chance to clinch. 
“No, I’m not bitter at Denkinger,” Herzog said at Busch Stadium. “He’s a good guy, he knows he made a mis­take, and he’s a human being. It happened at an inopportune time but I do think they ought to have instant replay in the play­offs and World Series.” 
Herzog and Denkinger made their peace over the years. 
“We didn’t always see eye-to­eye. That’s pretty obvious. Enough has been printed about what happened,” Denkinger told The Associated Press in a tele­phone interview. 
“It didn’t deter from how I feel about Whitey. He deserves to be in the Hall. I have the utmost respect for him,” he said. 
The long-ago play that ran­kled Herzog came leading off the bottom of the ninth with St. Louis leading the Royals 1-0. Pinch-hitter Jorge Orta was called safe at first, even though replays showed first baseman Jack Clark’s toss to pitcher Todd Worrell was in time. A missed popup helped Kansas City rally for two runs to win Game 6. 
“How could he miss that call?” Herzog shouted that night, mixing in an expletive as he stormed down a runway tun­nel. The next night, the Royals romped 11-0 in Game 7. 
As for Harvey, Herzog joshed: “I don’t know why he should get in. Doug kicked me out of more games than any other umpire.” 
Like Herzog, Harvey fell one vote shy in the last election. This time, they both easily drew enough support to reach Cooperstown. 
“I don’t think I would’ve had my heart broken if I’d missed by another vote or two. But I’m damn happy it’s over,” Herzog said. “It was just in the last few years when I was only missing by a few votes that I thought, maybe I do deserve it.” 
Among those who came close this year was former players’ union head Marvin Miller. He was on a separate slate for executives and officials, and fell two votes short. 
“Very few individuals have had as significant or as positive an impact upon the history of baseball as Marvin,” union head Michael Weiner said in a state­ment. “The Hall remains incom­plete without Marvin’s plaque.” 
Herzog was a fixture in major league dugouts for two decades. He won the 1982 World Series and three NL pennants with the Cardinals and three division titles with Kansas City. He became the 19th manager to make the Hall. 
“I think he was one of the guys who started managers looking at doing more creative things,” said Hall of Fame short­stop Ozzie Smith, one of Herzog’s star players. “You’d see him take a relief pitcher and put him in right field.” 
Smith was a late addition to the 16-member panel that con­sidered managers and umpires. Candidates needed 12 votes (75 percent) to make it, and Herzog got 14 in voting Sunday at the baseball winter meetings. Results were announced Monday, and the 78-year-old Herzog was told he was in. 
Dorrel Norman Elvert Herzog drew his nickname because of his light blonde hair while play­ing minor league ball. He wasn’t much of a major league out­fielder, but made his mark with the Runnin’ Redbirds. 
“He’s the best baseball man I’ve ever been around,” said Washington manager Jim Riggleman, a former member of Herzog’s staff. “If you worked under Whitey, you had a chance to manage in the major leagues.” 
Herzog started managing in 1973 with Texas and compiled a .532 career winning percentage. 
“He gave his entire life to the game,” said Hall of Fame man­ager Tom Lasorda, another Veterans panel member. “When he didn’t make it last year, I was very, very down. This year, everyone understood he belonged there.” 
NFL 
Gradkowski flling in nicely 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. — When Bruce Gradkowski saw a cou­ple of offensive linemen looking at a replay on the scoreboard when the Oakland Raiders were trying to get up to the line during a 2-minute drill he let them know how just he felt. 
“I’m not going to say exactly what I said. But I said, ‘Hey, get in the huddle, we’ll look at the scoreboard after we score,’” Gradkowski recalled Monday. “I was kind of mad because I was aggravated like hey, ‘Get in the huddle. Focus on this. Let’s score first and then we can watch the game after.’” 
The players followed Gradkowski’s lead and he delivered on his promise, throwing an 11-yard touch­down pass to Louis Murphy with 9 seconds left in Oakland’s 27-24 victory at Pittsburgh. 
With his second fourth-quar­ter comeback in three starts since replacing JaMarcus Russell, Gradkowski is solidify­ing his spot as the Raiders starting quarterback. 
“I’m pretty confident in my abilities and being a starter in this league,” Gradkowski said. “If yesterday cemented it, that’s good. My goal is to con­tinue to be successful and put this team in position to win football games. And that’s my job, and I have to just be the manager on offense. And what­ever happens after that will happen.” 
Coach Tom Cable said Gradkowski has made the most of his opportunity and will keep the starting job as long as he keeps performing. 
Cable said at the time he made the change that Russell is still the team’s quarterback of the future after being the first overall pick in 2007. Cable wouldn’t address the team’s plans for 2010 on Monday. 
“That’s not for me to even think about right now,” he said. “Right now I have to be focused on what’s at hand this season and all that. That’s for after the season, evaluating your team and all that, so I would have no thought for that right now. No time for that.” 
Gradkowski’s transformation has been remarkable, consid­ering he was out of a job for part of last season before hook­ing up with Cleveland late in the 2008 season. He had one ineffective start with the Browns before being sent back to the street again after the season. 
Gradkowski started 11 games as a rookie in 2006 with Tampa Bay, but was cut by the Buccaneers, St. Louis and Cleveland in less than a nine-month stretch. 
“It’s tough,” he said. “I’ve seen each end of it, the starting quarterback side and then the side when you’re on the street for a while. It’s just a matter of staying confident in yourself and knowing this happens sometimes. Look at Kurt Warner and Jake Delhomme and guys that have been on the streets, Jeff Garcia coming from Canada. Just examples like that. I think the main thing in this league is you have to persevere, and if you’re strong enough to do that you’ll suc­ceed.” 
Since taking over for Russell, Gradkowski rallied the Raiders with a late touchdown pass in a 20-17 win over Cincinnati, lost at Dallas on Thanksgiving and then had his best performance of all in the fourth quarter in his hometown of Pittsburgh. 
He engineered a 57-yard drive to start the quarter, capped with a 17-yard touch­down pass to Chaz Schilens that gave the Raiders a 13-10 lead. After the Steelers took only two plays to take back the lead, Gradkowski connected on a 75-yard touchdown pass to Murphy that put Oakland back on top with 5:28 to go. 
But Pittsburgh wasn’t done, retaking the lead on Ben Roethlisberger’s 11-yard TD pass to Hines Ward with 1:56 remaining. That’s when Gradkowski took over, taking command of the huddle and the game. 
MLB 
Winter Meetings begin in Indiana 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — In a town known for fast moves around the speedway, base­ball’s wheelers and dealers were slowly mulling their options at the winter meet­ings. 
Roy Halladay, Curtis Granderson and Dan Uggla were some of the big names being dangled on the trade market as baseball’s annual swapfest opened Monday. Toronto appeared to be mov­ing quite deliberately in talks involving Halladay, the much-coveted 2003 AL Cy Young Award winner. 
“Nothing’s happened. If he comes to a team in our divi­sion, I would be interested. He’s really good,” Boston Red Sox manager Terry Francona said. 
Detroit right-hander Edwin Jackson was another player who could be traded, but there were just two minor deals that actually were made in the first few hours of the four-day session. 
Washington acquired right-handed reliever Brian Bruney from the New York Yankees for a player to be named and Texas obtained left -hander Clay Rapada from Detroit for a player to be named or cash. 
Among free agents, Detroit agreed to a one-year con­tract with shortstop Adam Everett. Also, the Yankees said left -hander Andy Pettitte’s representatives told them he wants to return for 2010. New York was pre­pared to make him an offer upward of $10 million, a baseball official familiar with the talks said. The offi­cial spoke on condition of anonymity because talks were ongoing. 
“I’ve been told in the right circumstances he wants to pitch,” Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said. 
Cashman also acknowl ­edged he was interested in right-hander Jason Marquis. The GM said he traveled to Indianapolis on Sunday on “Air Levinson” — the private plane of the pitcher’s agents, Sam and Seth Levinson. 
“Obviously, he’s very suc­cessful — pitched in tough markets,” Cashman said. “He’s a New Yorker, so he’s tough.” 
Cashman, who received his budget only last Friday, also must decide what offers to make to left fielder Johnny Damon and designated hitter Hideki Matsui, who like Pettitte became free agents. Matsui, the World Series MVP, wants to stay in the major leagues. 
“I manage two Japanese players and it ’s fun,” Chicago White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen said. “I love it because all of a sudden when you get fired from the United States, you might have a chance to manage in Japan. You never know.” 
Jason Bay and Matt Holliday, the top two free-agent hitters, appear to have slow-moving markets. Given the recession, many teams are reluctant to spend top dollar for stars. 
“We are not in that bidding at all,” Atlanta Braves man­ager Bobby Cox said. 
Even the Yankees appear to be trying to reduce their $200 million-plus payroll. Cashman said one of the reasons he traded Bruney was that he was eligible for arbitration after making $1.25 million last season. 
Still, other teams are wary of the financial might of the World Series champions. 
“They have a couple of things that make life difficult for us: They have a lot of money and they have smart people running what they are doing,” Francona said. “They are not going to go away. I hope they don’t get better. But they are there, so we have to deal with them.” 
Teams also were waiting for the midnight Monday deadline to pass for about two dozen free agents to decide whether to accept arbitration offers from their former clubs. 
Boston agreed to a small deal with right-hander Scott Atchison, who spent the last two seasons with the Hanshin Tigers in Japan’s Central League. Hanshin purchased the contract of outfielder Matt Murton from Colorado. 
The New York Mets, com­ing off a dismal first season at Citi Field, have held numerous trade talks but weren’t close to any deals. 
Also, former agent Dennis Gilbert was at the hotel. Now a Chicago White Sox execu­tive, he is among the bidders trying to purchase control of the Texas Rangers from cur­rent owner Tom Hicks. Gilbert said he hopes to find out whether his bid succeeds by a Dec. 15 deadline that’s been set. 

Tuesday, December 8, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Iverson takes court in Philly for frst time since ‘06 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — The A.I. Show took center stage again in Philly. 
And the early returns have Philadelphia 76ers fans in love with the revival as much as the original. 
Iverson took a familiar route to the Wachovia Center on Monday night for his first game since returning to the Sixers last week. He pulled in to the player’s park­ing lot at 5:55 p.m., waving to fans who waited in the cold for a glimpse of one of the most polar­izing athletes in Philadelphia’s deep sports history. 
He hit the court for warmups to the sound of fans screaming his name and holding “Welcome Home” signs. He took passes from his former 76ers backcourt team­mate Aaron McKie, now an assis­tant coach. 
He hit shot after shot to the delight of the crowd and broke out in a wide smile as they erupt­ed in cheers. 
Iverson, who did not talk pregame, was in the starting line­up Monday against the Nuggets. 
“It’s going to be tough on me,” Iverson said at shootaround. “But you never know with the way the adrenaline is going to be pump­ing.” 
Iverson was edited out of high­lights and banished from the team in the week leading up to his acrimonious 2006 trade to Denver. But he got his own great­est hits montage on Monday and a near-sellout crowd stood and roared in approval. 
There was an NBA finals elec­tricity in the arena for a team that hasn’t won a playoff series since 2003 and was 29th in attendance. 
Iverson was introduced fourth, bowed and kissed the logo at midcourt, then joined his team­mates for a little dance. Iverson gave a friendly point to former coach George Karl and hugged ex-teammate Carmelo Anthony. 
He missed his first shot, a mak­able layup early in the first quar­ter. 
Coach Eddie Jordan said Iverson may start the rest of the season for the struggling Sixers. Iverson will play his first game with Philadelphia since 2006. 
“I feel like I am home,” Iverson said. “Just seeing people I’m accustomed to seeing, seeing the reporters, seeing some of the fans when I go out to eat. Just the smell of Philadelphia when I go outside.” 
Iverson’s not sure how many minutes he can play because of his limited basketball activity over the past year. His stint in Detroit was cut short with a back injury and he played only three games for Memphis this season. 
Iverson said he has some con­cerns about playing in game con­dition. 
“If I can’t get my scoring on like I want to, I just want to do other things on the basketball court that will help us win,” Iverson said. 
The Sixers have lost nine straight games and hope Iverson can lead them back into the win column. He’ll play against Denver, one of three teams he played for after leaving Philadelphia. 

Karl, who had Iverson for two-plus seasons in Denver, said he was surprised Iverson was back with the Sixers. 
“I was thinking it would be a team trying to win a champi­onship that needed points,” he said. “He always had a love affair with the city and he took them on an incredible run.” 
Iverson always considered Philly home and dreamed of a return to the team he led to the 2001 NBA finals. 
“In your dreams, you always hope for the best,” he said. “That’s what I’m doing. I love these people here. They know that. They love me back. Hopefully, it’ll just be a great experience. 
“Hopefully, I don’t get emotional because it will take away from my game.” 
Iverson broke down in tears at his press conference after he signed a non-guaranteed deal with the 76ers last week. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, December 8, 2009 
HOCKEY 

Goals slow in coming for Notre Dame offense 
to get more production out of 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
some guys,” Jackson said. “If 
Sports Writer 
we were scoring three goals a game, we might have four 

Despite not being shut out more wins.” until this past weekend, Notre The Irish currently average Dame’s offense is the main cul-2.11 goals per game; three prit in the Irish (7-7-4, 4-4-4-2 goals per game would jump the CCHA) stumbling to a .500 team from 11th in the CCHA record halfway through the standings to second. One goal season. more per game on many occa-
Miami (Ohio) topped Notre sions boils down to a bounce 
Dame  1-0  here or an inch  
Friday night and  there,  captain  
routed the Irish 4-0 Saturday night. The last time the Irish  “If we were scoring three goals a game, we might have four  Ryan Thang said. “The bounces aren’t going our  
did not score in  more wins.”  way, whether it  
a  two-game  being hitting on  
weekend series was in January 2005, the sea- Jeff Jackson Irish coach  pipes or just not capitalizing on chances,” Thang  
son before  cur- said. “For some  
rent Irish coach  reason  [the  

Jeff Jackson took the reins of puck] is hitting the post and the program. not going in, whereas other 
“[A lack of scoring] has just teams are hitting the post and been a continuous problem,” it is going directly in. It is a Jackson said. “We had some matter of centimeters and good chances Friday night. inches.” Saturday night our chances For one Irish forward, the were minimal. A lot of that had puck has been able to find the to do with our ability to possess back of the net. Junior Calle the puck.” Ridderwall leads the team with 
Some of the weekend’s woes 10 goals. can be seen as a credit to “I think the times I’ve been Miami (11-2-5, 8-1-3-1), the scoring have been a couple of top-ranked team in the country backdoors, or good passes for nine weeks now, but Notre from teammates,” Ridderwall Dame has struggled to score said. “Sometimes you just have goals all season. the puck bounce your way a lit­
“You get to this stage of the tle bit. Fortunately I’ve had season, we are at the midway that happen to me a couple point of the year, and we need times this season.” 

Ridderwall’s success bodes well for the rest of the Notre Dame offense. Maybe the turn­ing point really will come down to a fluke goal, or an unexpect­ed change to the lineup, and the rest of the team will start knocking in goals as the Sweden native has this season. 
Jackson said a prolonged scoring drought is cause for concern, but he has seen a team snap out of such before. 
“We had the same kind of problem in the second half two years ago, the year we went to the Frozen Four,” he said. 
“January, February and early March we had a real difficult time scoring.” 
Surprisingly, an injury to the team’s leading scorer sparked a scoring surge at an ideal time. 
“Then we got to the NCAA Tournament, and Erik Condra got knocked out, and he was our best player,” Jackson said. “All of a sudden we score seven against [New Hampshire] and score five against Michigan. We got to the Tournament, and we came to life. Any little thing potentially could trigger [an offensive out­burst].” 
Not that Notre Dame’s best player has been knocked out this season, but perhaps that little thing has already taken place, and its effects have been slow in coming. 
“We’re all asking the same thing: when are things going to turn around?” Thang said. “Maybe things are turning around already and we just don’t know it.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
NFL 

Rodgers leads Packers past Ravens on MNF 
ankle injuries. suddenly found themselves penalty by Ray Lewis on Greg But Lardarius Webb ran the 
Associated Press 

But Ravens coach John scrambling after a pair of Jennings, but the Packers were ensuing kickoff 68 yards — 
GREEN BAY, Wis. — The Harbaugh insisted his team still turnovers, both involving pushed back by a holding penal-another special-teams melt-standings say the Green Bay can save its season. Donald Driver, allowed ty on right tackle Mark down for a Packers team prone Packers are in good shape for “We are still breathing,” Baltimore to get back in the Tauscher and the Packers had to giving up big returns — and the playoffs. But Monday night’s Harbaugh said. “We are still game. to settle for a field goal — but Tramon Williams was called for victory over the Baltimore alive.” The Packers were driving on Mason Crosby missed from 38 pass interference. Ravens showed they still have Baltimore was called for five their first possession of the sec-yards. But Williams recovered two some work to do to be taken pass interference penalties, the ond half when Driver caught a Flacco then threw deep down-plays later, picking off Flacco in seriously once they get there. most by a team in a single game pass in Ravens territory and field to Derrick Mason, who the end zone to give the ball 
Aaron Rodgers threw three since the New York Giants in fumbled as he turned to run caught the ball but was called back to the Packers and pre­touchdown passes, including 2001. The Packers were flagged upfield. Former Packers defen-for offensive pass interference serve the lead. two to tight end Jermichael four times for pass interference. sive back Frank Walker recov-against Charles Woodson. A.J. Hawk then picked off Finley, and the Packers beat the Rodgers was 26 of 40 for 263 ered, giving the ball back to the Mason compounded the prob-another Flacco pass, and the Ravens 27-14 in a penalty-filled yards with two interceptions, Ravens at their own 29. lem by drawing an unsports-Packers drove for a 32-yard game Monday night. only his sixth and seventh of the Flacco drove the Ravens to manlike conduct penalty after-field goal by Crosby to seal the 
It was the fourth straight win season. the Green Bay 12, where he ward, and the Ravens had to victory. for the Packers (8-4), solidifying While Reed’s replacement, faced third-and-7. Given a free punt from their own 9-yard line. their spot in the NFC wild-card Tom Zbikowski, came up with play after defensive lineman The Packers got the ball back race. But it certainly wasn’t one of the interceptions, the Johnny Jolly jumped offside, at the Baltimore 49, and pretty. Ravens struggled in coverage. Flacco found Kelley Washington Rodgers threw to Korey Hall 
Baltimore Ravens’ Haloti Baltimore’s Joe Flacco was 15 in the corner of the end zone for and Driver for first downs Ngata is seen on the bench dur-of 36 for 137 yards with a a touchdown. Washington tried before finding Finley for a 19­ing the second half of an NFL touchdown and three intercep-to do a “Lambeau leap,” but yard touchdown pass and a 24­football game against the Green tions. The Packers sacked him fans pushed him out of the 14 lead with 10:31 remaining. Bay Packers Monday, Dec. 7, three times. stands. 2009, in Green Bay, Wis. The The win is a continuation of a The play was upheld on a Packers won 27-14. significant momentum swing for replay review, cutting the 
The teams committed 23 the Packers, who were 4-4 after Packers’ lead to 17-7. penalties for 310 yards, tying looking bad in back-to-back After the Packers nearly fum-for the second-highest yardage losses to Minnesota and Tampa bled the ensuing kickoff, total in an NFL game. Bay in early November but Rodgers watched as his first 
Packers coach Mike McCarthy haven’t lost since. pass of the next possession called the penalties “unbeliev-They’ve worked out some of bounced off Driver’s leg and into able for both sides” but said he their pass protection problems the arms of linebacker Jarret was happy with the way his — Rodgers was sacked only Johnson, giving the ball back to team responded to trying cir-once Monday night — and their Baltimore at the Green Bay 42. cumstances—something they defense appears to be getting Flacco went deep, drawing hadn’t done well early in the more comfortable in the 3-4 pass interference on Packers season. scheme installed by defensive cornerback Tramon Williams. 
“I’ll say this about our football coordinator Dom Capers in the Willis McGahee scored on a 1­team: I was very proud and offseason. yard touchdown run two plays excited the way they overcame “If our defense plays like it did later, cutting the lead to 17-14 the adversity,” McCarthy said. tonight, we’re going to be tough in the third quarter. 
The Ravens (6-6) struggled in to beat,” Rodgers said. The Packers drove to the coverage without star safety Ed Leading 17-0 at halftime and Baltimore 17 thanks in large Reed, who sat out with hip and seemingly cruising, the Packers part to a 15-yard face mask 



Tuesday, December 8, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
IPFW comes to Purcell to face undefeated Irish 

By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 5 Irish will play host to a struggling Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne team tonight at 7 in the Purcell Pavilion amid hopes that Notre Dame will be able to extend its winning streak to eight. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw is anxious about complacency amongst her players and said that the Mastodons (3 -4) could possibly pull an upset 
McGraw said she hopes the senior leadership will be able to step up and keep the ship sailing in the right direction, but senior guard and captain Melissa Lechlitner has been hobbled this week in practice after injuring her quad and hamstring. 
“Lechlitner hasn ’t prac ­ticed,” McGraw said. “She had a pulled hamstring and she pulled a quad yesterday when she tried to practice.” 
McGraw said she believes Lechlitner will be able to 
make it onto 
the court and 

a g a i n s t a n u n d e f e a t e d  “We are not playing  p l a y t o n i g h t , but she knows  
Notre Dame (7­0 ) t e a m t h a t has been sloppy since returning  hard, we don’t have intensity, and we are not focused.”  t h a t s h e w i l l need to get help f r o m o t h e r players.  
f r o m  t h e  “ I t  i s  h a r d  
Paradise Jam in t h e Vi r g i n Islands.  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  without her out there,” McGraw s a i d . “ [ S e n i o r  
“ I  a m  r e a l l y  g u a r d A s h l e y ]  
disappointed in  Barlow is doing  

the way we have been prac-everything she can to get the ticing since coming back from intensity up. [Junior guard] the Paradise Jam,” McGraw Brittany Mallory is doing the said. “I feel like we are com-same thing, but other than placent. I don’t know if we those two I do not feel like are reading our rankings, or anybody is really doing what what we are doing. We are they need to do.” not playing hard, we don’t The team would also like to have any intensity, and we see junior forward Becca are not focused. And I think Bruszewski get more time on that is why we played poorly the court and stay out of foul against Eastern Michigan, trouble, as McGraw said she and I am not sure what to is key to the team’s success. expect tomorrow.” “Really, overall she has only 17 fouls in 7 games, which is really just two per game,” McGraw said. “It is really just in the last three that she has gotten into foul trouble. I would certainly like her to stay on the floor longer, because overall she is playing really well.” 
The inconsistent play is a great worry for McGraw, and she said she believes the team might need a wake-up call to snap out of a post ­Virgin Islands malaise. 
“We will probably have to lose a game is probably what will be the reality check,” McGraw said. “I thought Eastern Michigan would be a wake-up call, but apparently it wasn’t.” 
IPFW brings a lot of skill and size to the table against Notre Dame, and McGraw said she wants the team to get up and ready for what should be a stiff challenge. 
“I am worried about their post game, [and] their guards are quick,” McGraw said. “[Junior guard Chelsey] Jackson is kind of a tough matchup for us. She is quick and she can score. Their post can score around the basket and away from the basket, which leads to match -up problems with us having to guard them. With the way we are playing it is a little scary going into the game.” 
The Irish should not take a struggling IPFW squad lightly, McGraw said. 
“You can’t take anybody lightly, there have been so many upsets,” she said. “We saw that with Eastern Michigan. Any team can come in here and just come out and play hard. It is the Super Bowl for them. This is the biggest game of the year for the teams coming in. They get a chance to play a ranked team, Notre Dame. You bring your A-game and you have to be ready.” 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, December 8, 2009 
professional football. But at 
Dame you know you’re going to 

the same time I’m going to 
develop some very good relation-
Decision 
Clausen 
Tate 

leave a lot of good friends and 
ships with people,” Tate said. 

continued from page 20 people that I have met here 
continued from page 20 “Going into this year, I’m expect-
continued from page 20 

and that are going to be my 
ing to be here for another year 
never contended for a BCS 

the player I am today.” friends for the rest of my life,” 
Perhaps what’s most memo-after my junior year. Then for it 

Clausen began to display his he said. “It’s going to be a hard 
rable about Tate’s junior cam-to become a reality that I might 
berth, much less a national 
title. And, as Clausen admitted 

talent on an improved unit in transition for me.” 
paign, though, was how he not be here and to leave the peo­
when asked directly about his 

2008, passing for more than Clausen will hand the reigns 
turned in his best performances ple up here that I love so much 

3,000 yards and recording 25 of the team over to sophomore 
when fellow wide receiver and develop great relationships 
legacy at Notre Dame, “To be 
honest, I don’t know. I think 

touchdowns for the Irish. The Dayne Crist, who is currently 
Michael Floyd was out with a with, it’s tough.” 
that’s still to be determined.” 

quarterback was the co-MVP recovering from an anterior 
broken collarbone. As for the factors that went 

of Notre Dame’s 49-21 Hawaii cruciate ligament (ACL) injury. 
In the five games that Floyd into Tate’s decision, he said that 
I don’t know either, and it’s 
truly a shame, because these 

Bowl win, snapping a nine-“[Crist is] going to do a great 
missed, Tate averaged 7.4 catch-the ongoing coaching search, as 
are two players with unbeliev­

game bowl losing streak for job,” Clausen said. “I told him 
es for 125.2 yards and more well as Clausen’s decision to 

the program. to get healthy as fast as he can 
than a touchdown per game. On declare early, played a role. Tate 
able skills. In truth, they have 
both made plays that none of 

The best year of Clausen’s and get these guys going.” 
the year, Tate caught 93 passes said that the main reason for his 
their Irish predecessors ever 

career came in 2009, as he fin-While excited about realizing 
for 1,496 yards and 15 scores, in decision, though, was the fact 
made — Tate’s Hail Mary grab 

ished second in the nation in his dream of playing in the 
addition to running for an addi-that he didn’t feel he could 
against Washington State 

passing efficiency. Clausen led NFL and seeing what his 
tional 186 yards and two touch-improve on his record-breaking 
comes to mind. 

the Irish to several close victo-future holds, Clausen said he 
downs. junior season. 

ries early in the season, will miss the experiences and 
Now’s not the time to dig up 
“Coming into my junior season “After having the year that I 

including a fourth-down touch-relationships he built at Notre 
the regrettable but unforget-
Coach Weis and I actually had a had, I’m not sure if I can even do 
table comments a teenage 

down pass to Kyle Rudolph Dame. 
conversation,” Tate said. “He much better,” he said. “So I just 
said I wouldn’t leave after junior feel like it was the right time. Go 
Clausen made about Heisman 

with 25 seconds left at Purdue “When I think about not 
trophies and national champi­

and a go-ahead drive with less being here next semester and 
year unless I had 17 touchdowns out while you’re hot, you know.” 
onships at his infamous sign-

than two minutes left against next year, it gives me the 
and about 1500 yards. He hit the ESPN.com’s Scouts, Inc. has 

Washington. chills,” Clausen said. “It’s been 
nail right on the head.” Tate ranked as the 26th-best 
ing day press conference, just 

“I don’t think we could have a great time in my life, I could-
as last Monday wasn’t a time 
As for his decision to leave for available overall prospect, and 
to rehash Charlie Weis’ open-

done more than we did the n’t ask for anything more.” 
the NFL, Tate said the choice draft projections range from the 
ing thoughts on 6-5 not being 
past year,” Clausen said. 
was harder than some may have first to third round. 
good enough. Like their for­

“Golden [Tate] has played Contact Michael Bryan at 
thought. Right now, though, Tate said 
mer head coach, the legacies 

great, I’ve done my part. I mbryan@nd.edu 
“When you come to Notre he’s just worried about finding 
an agent and taking the next 
of Clausen and Tate won’t fol-
think this is just the best time 
low the storybook plot that 
for us to go out.” 
steps in the draft process. He 
includes team triumphs and a 
Despite not accomplishing 
said that, ultimately, he plans to 
final ride into the sunset wor­
goals of leading Notre Dame 
return to school and finish his 
thy of a John Wayne Western. 
back to the BCS, Clausen said 
degree. As for all the draft pro-
But like director of athletics 
it was time to move on. 
jections, that’s a worry for 
Jack Swarbrick’s decision to 
“When you come to a college 
another day. 
“I’ve talked with a few people, 
let Weis go, this decision was 
program you want to go to the 
the right one. It wasn’t an 
national championship and 
and I think they predict me to go 
easy one, but it was the right 
win as many games as you 
between the first and the sev­
enth (final) round, so somewhere 
one. And we wish you luck, 
can. Obviously, we didn’t really 
Jimmy and Golden. 
do that and didn’t reach our 
between there,” Tate said in 
full potential,” Clausen said. 
complete deadpan. “But I’m not 
sure. I’m just going to start 
The views expressed in this 
While many viewed 
column are those of the author 
Clausen’s choice to go the NFL 
working towards being up 
and not necessarily The 
as a foregone conclusion, the 
there.” 
Observer. 
junior said it was a tough deci-
Contact Sam Werner at 
Contact Matt Gamber at 
sion. 
mgamber@nd.edu. 

“I’ve always wanted to play swerner@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  66  67  
68  69  70  
71  72  73  

Tuesday, December 8, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
68 ___ City (LasVegasnickname)
69 Standing atattention 70 Trojan War epic71 “___ Te Ching”72 Drawer holders 73 See 1-Across 
Down 
1 Start of many aScottish family name 
2 Flu fighters:Abbr. 3 One of the three green R's 4 Call ___ 
question 5 Hatred 6 Turned out 7 Basic building
block 8 Gershwin composed one“in blue” 9 Blow one's top 10 Elmer the Bull's mate 11 December celebration 12 “Beware the furyof a ___ man”: 
John Dryden13 Iran-Contra, e.g. 21 Slangy response
to “Why?” 22 Hair goop 23 Instantly, for
short 24 Fire: Fr. 28 Matterhorn, e.g.30 ___ show 
(carnivalattraction)33 Part of U.C.L.A. 35 Casual greetings 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Barry Boone  
38 “Hamlet” setting39 Water-skiers' holds 40 Former Mideast inits. 41 Emotion conveyed bywrinkling one'snose 42 Willa Cather's “My ___”43 Golfer Lee  46 “Toodle-oo!” 47 Unit of gunpowder 48 Slump 50 Cincinnati-to-Pittsburgh dir. 52 Ones livingabroad 53 Each  56 “I can't remember if I ___” (“AmericanPie” lyric) 58 ___ the Hedgehog(video game)61 Paper cut, e.g.62 Navigator on theEnterprise66 Uncle ___ 67 Old Tokyo  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 With 73-Across,former New York governor
6 Enter unannounced,with “in” 
11 Military messworkers, forshort 
14 Improve15 Lucy's friend on
“I Love Lucy”16 W.W. II female 17 Gila 
woodpeckersnest in them 18 Layers of paint19 ___ crossroads 20 Start of a quoteby 1-/73-Across23 Rank below cpl.25 Not talking
26 What Fred Ott did in the first movie to be copyrighted
27 Crème ___crème 
29 Astronaut's work environment, forshort 31 Actress Turner 
32 Put down, as anuprising
34 Not ___ eye inthe house 36 Brits call it “the pond”: Abbr.
37 Middle of the quote
41 “Gimme ___
ding!”
44 ___ gin fizz
45 Fires 
49 Memo starter 
51 Win the World 
Series in four games, say
54 Perlman of “Cheers” 
55 Sign painter'shelp
57 Crosses (out)
59 ___ McMuffin 
60 End of the quote
63 Prefix with cycleor sex 
64 Ancient Aegeanregion
65 Surgeon'sassistant 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
F E M A  S N A P  H A S T A  
A X E S  P O L E  A C T O R  
R  I S K  E D  I  T  S Q U A T  
T H E E A S T E R B U N N Y  
D  I K  E R I  
S T P  G O B  F L O T S A M  
T O O T H F A I  R Y  T  I  N E  
I  N L E T  H O O  S A L O N  
C Y A N  S A N T A C L A U S  
K A R A C H  I  H B O  S T A  
C H  I  D U E  
B E L  I  E V E  I  T O R N O T  
E Y E O N  S P A M  T O U R  
A R G U E  T O M E  E Z R A  
M E S S Y  E D E N  R E N T  



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The Observer 

Sports 
Tuesday, December 8, 2009 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Clausen, Tate opt for NFL Draft 
Irish stars make the tough, but right, choice 
This was the right decision for Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate. It wasn’t an easy one, and as these guys walk around campus over the next few days, they’ll probably realize it wasn’t a popular one. But it was the right one. 
Notre Dame fans, myself included, Matt Gamber will miss watching 

Sports Editor
No. 7 hit No. 23 in stride on those perfectly thrown go pat­terns that debuted against Purdue in 2007 and that we’ve seen in just about every game over the past two seasons. We’ll miss Clausen’s laser-beam out routes, pinpoint accuracy and the fiery, competitive attitude he showed this year, during which he made a tremendous leap from a talented, cocky player into a more polished, mature leader. We’ll miss Tate’s unmatched abili­ty to bring down jump balls, make defenders look silly in space and provide sound bytes like those he uttered after jumping into the Michigan State band and added to Monday, when he laughed off a question about a potential future in baseball by saying, “maybe in fix or six years, I’ll enter some softball league.” 
The fact is both Clausen and Tate are special talents, and while Notre Dame has potential star power on its roster, replacing two of the most productive Irish play­ers in recent memory won’t be easy. And while both Clausen and Tate certainly could have helped Notre Dame as seniors next sea­son, those tempted to call the decision to opt for the NFL selfish need to look in the mirror to find someone guilty of that charge. 
There are so many concrete reasons for both Clausen and Tate to leave. The potential for a rookie salary cap for players cho­sen in the 2011 NFL Draft means, in all likelihood, more money for those who decide not to wait. With the numbers each posted this season, it’s almost a statistical improbability they could improve in that regard, especially under a new coach, who, by the way, has­n’t yet been hired. And, for Clausen specifically, it’s no secret he chose Notre Dame because he thought it would further his dream of playing in the NFL — a fact that, for the record, I have no problem with, considering the tremendous effort he gave the Irish in three tumultuous seasons. 
Still, I held out an ounce of hope that Tate, if not both, would return for one more year. Both left several school records and probably serious individual national hardware on the table. Neither player, despite the incred­ible individual performances and well-deserved accolades of each, was able to will Notre Dame to a winning regular season. They 
see DECISION/page 18 


IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 

Junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen, former coach Charlie Weis and junior receiver Golden Tate look on at Monday’s press conference. 
A week ago Monday, it was made official that Charlie Weis would not return for a sixth sea­son as the Notre Dame head coach. This Monday, it was star juniors Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate who announced they would not return for anoth­er season in Irish uniforms, opt­ing to enter the NFL Draft at a time when, as they put it, their draft stock couldn’t get much higher. 
“I’d like to offer my personal congratulations and best wises to both Golden and Jimmy, con­sidering the decisions they announced today,” Weis said in a statement issued at Monday’s press conference. “They’ve both put themselves in positions to advance their football careers to the next level and have a great chance to be successful, and that’s a credit to how hard they’ve worked and what they’ve accomplished.” 

Clausen: ‘One of my lifelong dreams’ 
“The first conversation 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
[Weis] just told me I’m ready 
Associate Sports Editor 

to go,” Clausen said. “Whether he was going to be here or Jimmy Clausen, regarded as not, it was my time to go. He the top high school recruit in thinks I’m ready for the NFL.” his class after committing to As a high school prospect at Notre Dame, could be the first Oaks Christian High School in player off the board in the California, Clausen was one of 
NFL. The jun- the most highly  
ior appears to  touted recruits  
be a first-round lock and  “The frst  of the decade, never losing a  
in the early discussion as the No. 1 pick. “Growing up  conversation [Charlie Weis] just told me I’m ready to go.”  game in his career. Called “the LeBron James of high  
as a kid, one of  school football”  
my lifelong dreams has been to play in  Jimmy Clausen Irish quarterback  and “the kid with the golden arm,” Clausen  

the NFL and with that being said, with the support of my family and coaches I will be forgoing my senior year and entering the 2010 NFL Draft,” Clausen said. 
Despite playing only three seasons, Clausen leaves South Bend with his name all over the Irish record books. He ranks second in career pass­ing yards and touchdown passes, and set records for passer rating and completion percentage this season. 
Clausen broke out as one of the top quarterbacks in the nation in 2009, passing for 3,722 yards and 28 touch­downs against only four inter­ceptions. 
The junior said following the season, former Irish coach Charlie Weis said it was time to take his game to the next level. 
committed to 
Notre Dame on the weekend of the Blue-Gold Game following his junior year at the College Football Hall of Fame in South Bend. 
After enrolling a semester early in 2007, Clausen and Notre Dame struggled throughout his freshman sea­son. 
Battling injuries after off­season elbow surgery and being sacked a team-record 34 times, Clausen and the Irish won only three games and finished with the most losses in school history. 
“I’ve made leaps and bounds since I came in as a fresh­man,” Clausen said Monday. “I think I’ve worked really hard. I give coach Weis and [quar­terbacks] coach [Ron] Powlus all the credit for making me 
see CLAUSEN/page 18 
Tate: ‘Go out while you’re hot’ 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Writer 
If you had told Golden Tate two years ago that he’d be in this position, he might have called you crazy. 
“My freshman year, you can ask some of [the other play­ers], you could of spring practice due to base­ball. In the season opener against San Diego State, though, Tate caught a team-high six passes for 93 yards and a touch­down. 
“The game has slowed since last year,” Tate said after the game. “I have time to think about the cover­age and my routes. It’s great. 
tell me a play I felt like I was 
“I never would have
and I still playing football 
wouldn’t know thought I’d be sitting and really enjoy-
how to run it,” here after my junior ing it.” Tate said. “So I During his 
season declaring to
think I’ve sophomore sea-grown a lot. go to the draft.” son, Tate led the I’ve made big team with 58 steps. But, no, I catches for 
Golden Tate 
never would 1,080 yards and 
Irish receiver
have thought I’d be sitting here after my junior season declaring to go to the draft.” 
Starting just two games in 2007, Tate caught just six pass­es in his rookie campaign. He did, however, provide one of the highlights of a dismal 3-9 sea­son. Against Purdue, the then-unknown freshman hauled in three difficult catches for 104 yards and a touchdown. 
Tate didn’t play much over the rest of the season, but he had already made an impact with Notre Dame fans. Shortly after the breakout game against the Boilermakers, students began printing t-shirts with the slogan “Golden is Thy Tate,” and Tate’s signature fly route on the back. 
Entering 2008, not much was expected of Tate, especially after the dual-sport star missed most 10 scores, 
including a six-
catch, 177-yard, three-touchdown performance in Notre Dame’s 49-21 romp over Hawaii in the Hawaii Bowl. 
Even Tate, though, could not have predicted the improvement he would make from his sopho­more to junior year, which included numerous broken records and a selection as a finalist for the Biletnikoff Award, given annually to the best receiver in the country. 
As it stands, Tate holds Notre Dame records for receptions in a season, receiving yards in a season, receiving yards in a career and touchdown recep­tions in the season. He is second in career touchdown receptions and total touchdowns in a sea­son. 
see TATE/page 18 





