
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 3 THURSDAY. AUGUST 27.2009 

D'Arcy revisits Obama controversy 
Local bishop addresses president's Commencement speech in Aug. 31 magazine article 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
The discussion continues. 
Notre Dame was thrust into a national spotlight last May when President Barack Obama delivered the Commencement address on campus, with many Catholics protesting the invita­tion and the decision to award Obama an honorary degree. 
Local Bishop John D'Arcy, whose diocese includes the University, is again speaking out about the controversy, this time in an article appearing in the Aug. 31 edition of America Magazine, a Jesuit publication. 
In the piece, which was pub­lished earlier this week on americamagazine.org, D'Arcy 
questions the future of Catholic universities and notes "the seri­ousness of the present moment." 
D'Arcy released three state­ments last spring in response the controversy, condemning the University's decision, but also later condemning "unseemly" protests. 
D'Arcy addresses the role of Catholic universities within the church and the responsibilities of such institutions in the arti­cle. 
In questioning the relation­ship between institutions like Notre Dame and the church, he again noted his role as a "teacher" for universities in his 
see D'ARCY/page 4 

Eddy Street Collllll.ons nears con1pletion 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Ediror 
Living in an apartment com­plex in Eddy Street Commons, junior Matt LaFleur often jokes that he is closer to some cam­pus buildings than his old dorm, O'Neill Hall. 
"We have a perfect view of Hesburgh Library," said LaFleur, who lives with two roommates. "It's funny to think about it, but we are now closer to a lot of things on campus." 
The complex, one of the first buildings in the Commons to open on Aug. 15, is fill to about 70-75 percent of its capacity, according to Gregory Hakanen, director of Asset Management and Real Estate at the University. Another apartment complex will open in 2010. 
"The University is very excit­ed that after years of collabora­tive planning with the city, with local residents and with Kite Reality, that Eddy Street Commons is becoming a reali­ty," Hakanen said. 
Although not in time for the home opener on Sept. 5, Hakanen said four retail venues will be ready for business by the second home game: The Follett Notre Dame Bookstore, Chipotle, Outpost Sports and Hot Box Pizza. The Bookstore is tentatively set to open Sept. 19, 
see COMMONS/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Tw-o dorms welcon1e new rectors 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Howard Hall and Pasquerilla East will be under new man­agement this year. 
Sr. Lucille D'Amelio is the new rector at Howard Hall, while Pasquerilla East is wel­coming Sr. Cindy Broderick. 
Prior to Notre Dame, D'Amelio worked as a pastoral administrator in Michigan. She is an Amityville Dominican from Long Island, 
N.Y. Broderick, an Adrian Dominican from Michigan, worked the last five years at a high school before coming to Notre Dame. 
D'Amelio attributes her arrival at Notre Dame to divine intervention. 
"I guess God wanted me here," D'Amelio said. 
D'Amelio hopes to bring a positive spirit to Howard by drawing on her past experi­ence. The cancer survivor has a optimistic outlook on life that she said she hopes to bring to the girls. 
"Move on from toxic situa­tions," D'Amelio said. "Life is too short to take on negativi­ty." 
However, she realizes that living with all of these girls will not be without challenges. 
"When I have to reprimand someone it will be the hardest challenge," D'Amelio said. 
D'Amelio said she made 
see RECTORS/ page 6 

Printers installed in residence halls 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Students no longer have to trek across campus in the frigid cold or wait in long lines at Coleman­Morse. At least not to use a print­er, that is. 
Over the summer, printers were installed in every undergraduate residence hall on campus, Student Body President Grant Schmidt said. 
"It's a huge convenience factor," Schmidt said. "From the stu­dent government end, the reason we did it is because people wanted them. People thought, hey, I'm running late to class. I don't want to wait in this line in DeBartolo. I want to be able to print it off at 3 a.m. when I fmish my paper." 
Not only can students send their papers or class readings to printer release stations in their dorms, they can also print their pages to the printers in other dorms. 
"I can go to Knott and print off there or I can go to Welsh Fam," Schmidt said. 
In order to print from a laptop to a dorm printer, students must download a new print utility soft­ware and configure their comput­er to the printer called ResHalls, Senate Campus Technology Chair Walker Anderson said. 
"It downloads itself. You down­load your install utility,"Anderson said. "If you download this, you can print to anything." 
see PRINTERS/page 4 

Freshmen adjust to campus life 
After a busy orientation weekend, Class of2013 settles in at ND 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
After a jam-packed orientation weekend that saw less campus­wide events and more dorm­specific activities than previous years, the Class of 2013 can set­tle into college life. 
"I got to meet a lot of different people at a lot of the different activities at Domerfest," fresh­man Tom Temmerman said. "Also, the event was so awk­ward that it was really easy to talk to people about the awk­wardness of the whole thing." 
Freshmen Orientation, or Frosh-0, occurs each year and is intended to make the transition 
see FROSH-0/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER New SMC advising system page 3 • "Inglourious Basterds" review page 13 • Clausen returns as QB page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, August 27, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SHOULD RYAN HALL'S NICKNAME/MASCOT BE? 
Wherein The World Is... 
By junior year, college is easy. 

You know where every building is on campus. You know which classes in your major are likely to be easy. You know your major (hopefully). After two years at Notre Dame, there is really no excuse to not be completely together. 
Still, on the first day of class, I managed to oversleep for my first class of the year and sit down in the 
wrong class-Madefllle Buckley room for my second class of the year. But as a jun-News Editor ior, I know my roommates well enough not to be surprised when the recycling bin is overflowing with diet sodas after two days. I know where to get the best cof­fee on campus. (And it's not at Starbucks). Junior year is easy -with one notable exception: It is the year nearly everyone interested in studying abroad leaves campus. According to the Office of Undergraduate admissions, over half of the students at Notre Dame study abroad at some point in their time on campus -a sta­tistic the University likes to brag about. While impressive, I never con­sidered how much this percent­age, which ranks Notre Dame the third highest of national colleges and universities in sending stu­dents abroad for a semester, year or summer, affects my life. I opted not to study abroad for several different reasons, but almost all of my friends with the exception of a few, decided to study in France, London, Australia and Mexico. Although I am mostly excited for them, I am also selfishly resentful that my friends are now scattered across different continents during the year that everything at Notre Dame is now supposed to be easy and familiar. But without everyone here, the dorm doesn't feel the same and campus doesn't feel the same. The year is fragmented, with some people leaving for the Fall, some for the Spring and some for the whole year. I have to get used to refraining from sending them random texts when something on campus reminds me of them, and I have to find more people to steal clothes from, since people appar­ently have to bring their clothes with them abroad. With so many juniors gone, this year will be different. Even though I selfishly wish my friends who are abroad now for the Fall semester were here on campus, I mostly just wish that they all have amazing experi­ences abroad -and I know you all will. Love you and miss you! And don't forget to send post­cards. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 





Erin Scott  Katie Weber  Juliet Jolly  Charlotte Seasly  
sophomore  senior  senior  sophomore  
Welsh Family  offcampus  Walsh  Welsh Family  
"Welsh Fam  "The Ryan  "Ryan Royalty,  "Duncan's Dime  
Wannabes."  Rhinos."  because they  Pieces."  
are beautiful  

like princesses." 
Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 

The film "Moon" will be shown today at 6:30 p.m. at the Browning Cinema at The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are available online at performingarts.nd.edu, or by calling Ticket Office at 574­631-2800. 
RecSports will conduct a Swim Lesson Assessment on Friday from 6 until 8 p.m. at the Rockne pool. Make-up assessments are scheduled for Wednesday, Sept. 2 from 6 until8 p.m. 
The film "Summer Hours" will be shown on Friday at 
6:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at The Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are available online at performingarts.nd.edu or by calling 57 4-631-2800. 
Notre Dame Women's Volleyball will play Denver on Friday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. For ticket information, call 574-631­7356. 
Notre Dame Women's Soccer will play against Loyola-Chicago on Friday at 
7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. For ticket information, call 574-631-7356. 
RecSports will be hosting a Biathlon at St. Joe's Beach this Saturday at 10 a.m. The competition will feature a half mile swim and a two mile run. The event is free to enter, but registration is nec­essary. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
HIGH 67 HIGH LOW 48 LOW 


Campus Ministry hosted an open house in the Coleman-Morse lounge on Wednesday evening with free food and prize raffles. 
OFFBEAT 
Man arrested for 22nd drunk driving offense 
ESPANOLA, N.M. Police said a man was arrested on Monday for his 22nd drunken driving offense -and his blood­alcohol content tested almost five times higher than New Mexico's legal limit. State Police Lt. Eric Garcia said an officer pulled up to a car parked along a highway and found a 51-year-old man on the ground near his vehicle. 
"He was coherent," Garcia said. "He showed signs of slurred speech, as might be normal for any OWl arrest, which led the officer to believe he might be driving under the influ­ence." 
Garcia said the suspect had to be taken by ambu­lance to Christus St. Vincent hospital in Santa Fe, where a blood-alcohol analysis showed a content level of .393 percent. New Mexico's limit for pre­sumed intoxication is .08 percent. 
Bear gets stuck In skate park 
SNOWMASS, Colo. -A bear that wandered into a sunken skateboard park and got stuck was rescued when officials 

lowered a ladder so it could climb out. 
The bear was discov­ered Tuesday morning in the Colorado resort town of Snowmass. Officials say it apparent­ly was in the park all night, and couldn't get out because of the steep concrete sides. 
Workers from the Parks and Recreation Department low­ered a long ladder. The bear eventually climbed the 
from the Associated 
ladder  and  wandered  
away.  
Information  compiled  

Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY a: 
LLI 

:::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 

e
cr:: 
(,) 0 

HIGH 77 HIGH HIGH 77 HIGH
...I LOW 60 LOW LOW 58 LOW 



68 
57 
Thursday, August 27, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



College iinpleiTients ne-w advising systeiTI 
think about their futures, Fleming By ALICIA SMITH said. News Wrirer Underclassmen will also be 
assigned seniors to act as their 
Saint Mary's College installed a peer mentors, she said. new advising system for the 2009-"They were training since the 2010 school year, helping students beginning of last week," Fleming to make academic and career deci­said. "They have been in training sions by asking them questions. sessions for quite some time, 
The students answer questions learning all kinds of things, includ­such as "Who am I?" "What is my ing more about the heritage of passion?" "To what am I called?" Saint Mary's College." and "How can I make a positive The ePortfolio System, designed difference in the world?" to discov­to give St. Mary's students the er more about their hopes for the opportunity to share information future. with their advisors, is still being 
"On my very first day here, I tested. looked at the possibility of creating Another feature is the Strength a more robust advising system for Quest Test, which helps students students that included what the discover their aptitudes. Open to career center had to offer, but all students, it can be taken in the started much earlier," Patricia Career Crossings Office. Fleming, senior vice president and The new system is also designed dean of faculty, said. to help students find internships. 
The system will be run as a col­"Internships have become very laborative program through the important. Internships can be very Department of missions, the aca­key ifthey occur in either the soph­demic department and the omore orjunior summer in helping DepartmentofStudentAJfairs. students to understand how they 
"Advising no longer just takes can make a difference in the world place in our Academic Advising and where their passions lie," Office and in the departments. Fleming said. Advising, because we we're Students will also have the enlarging our vision of what kinds opportunity to learn how they can of questions students here at Saint work for social justice. Mary's could ask while they are The Career Crossings Office here for their four years, really plans to host a career information needs to have this cooperation session where students and among these three divisions," Indiana employers can meet. Fleming continued. The program is funded by the 
First-year students have the College, as well as through the Ully option to participate in the First Foundation. Year Faculty Advising Program. This program assigns faculty advi­Contact Alicia Smith at sors to freshmen to help them asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




Gameday ritual to change 
By LIZ O'DONNELL NewsWrirer 
A hospitality village, ticket scanners and public parking on the Notre Dame Golf Course are some of the additions that will be implemented this fall for home football games. 
The new game-day initiatives originated from from an ad hoc committee study that took place last school year, according to a press release. 
The committee's study ran from the middle of football sea­son last year to late February when the findings were submit­ted to University President Fr. John Jenkins. 
They reviewed a variety of data collected throughout the fall, including campus inter­views, community interviews, and tips received from a feed­back website. 
Director of Game-Day Operations Mike Seamon said the goal of the research was to gather information from as many sources as possible. 
Seamon, who is also the assistant vice president for University events and protocol, was named director of game­day operations in April, after the committee recommended the need for a central person to be in charge of the new initia­tive. 


"We heard from people the experience could be better," Seamon said. "Fr. John has a continuous improvement model for the university that he took and applied to game-day. We are proud of how we are, but we know we can get better." 
Seamon said the addition he is most excited about is the addition of "Rally on the Green," a new hospitality vil­lage that will be located on Irish Green. It will feature live music and kid-friendly enter­tainment. 
"People will feel it," Seamon said. "It's something you can't necessarily describe." 
Also new for this season will be the implementation of a communication system to help people provide feedback about their game-day experiences. Included is a new text-messag­ing system that allows fans to contact the University to report unruly conduct. 
Seamon said he visited sever­al NFL teams and "cherry picked" the best practices of what they did and applied them here. He said Notre Dame is not trying to become like an NFL team, but rather trying to apply the best ideas from professional football to Notre Dame's game­day experience. 
"We can only get better when people tell us what's going on," he said. 
Other additions for this fall include the opening of the North End of Notre Dame Stadium from 10 a.m. until 5 
p.m. for fans to walk down the tunnel and onto the field for photo opportunities. 
Seamon said they will be ask­ing for feedback through the website gameday.nd.edu as well as through a toll-free phone number 800-ND1-FANS. Both hardcopy and e-mail sur­veys will be available towards the end of the season as well. 
"This is a continuous process that is just beginning," he said. "We will be constantly tweaking the improvements that we have already made." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 



l·iol!l (~ross 11rojess their 


Satt.irtia ugz.lst 29, 2l}(J~l 
J ~~(}(') j .
..... . . t .J1t 

IH, {¥:it'tl¥W fflt! liitr~J'' fti"tlJ \ki p¥.-rx~•' ~h\w-:s.el\"t'wpuiti'!dv tliltf/''4TtnPrMtti(v 
o.n rthVI"'i~r..t. aJ' Atw,~ fhrl}.'11fj{¥lfi\wt q(HtJiy fru:rt./j;J lt"r WV'hT t~;!' Btlsilictl of tJze Sacred Heart 
.... 

ft•tlk't'ft1!4\# 1'¢ftht'K,,t fkll'i"f~' ii1kf ~~!ifit'iiAt' t1Ft'iM' t.f A~#JI:irt\1'), ii'f'kf ll~f)itl!f(li! u.{jh;,? ~' Hti¥J i~!J;:..JJ't"i Jiw(r f!itJf'tit ~;t FJJJ?jii1€ fhtT 1Nl' aw iW'l all!m' far rlw <:iunl wil.•}trmJ iiWnf U'< 


vocation.nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 27, 2009 
was authored in 1967 by 
make campus more sustain­"The only problem that I 
Catholic educators, led by then­
able, students have another have been told about is that University President Fr.

D'Arcy 
Printers 

incentive to print double sided students who are running continued from page 1 Theodore Hesburgh. The docu­
continued from page 1 -it essentially doublestheir Microsoft Vista Home Edition, ment addressed issues of aca­

print quota. if it's the 64 bit version of the diocese. demic freedom and the role of 
A main concern with putting "Two pages printed on one operation system, then the D'Arcy wrote that he was not the Church in leading these 
printers in every dorm is sus­sheet of paper would cost the process to set things up is consulted before the decision to institutions, asserting that they 
tainability, Anderson said. In same as one page printed on more complicated," Burshett award Obama an honorary "must have a true autonomy 
order to make printing more­one sheet of paper," Burchett said. degree was made. He also said and academic freedom" from 
more friendly to the environ­said. "If you do double sided, Schmidt said the response he was not consulted in 2006 lay or clerical authority. 
ment, the desktops in comput­you should be able to stretch has been positive so far from when University President Fr. Ex Corde Ecclesiae is an 
er labs, along with Windows [the allotted 1 ,000 sheets] out students he has talked to. John Jenkins decided to allow apostolic constitution written by 
laptops, now default to double­and double your quota. So "People have been pumped," on-campus performances of the Pope John Paul II in 1990 and 
sided printing and recycling there is a real incentive there he said. "Everyone has said it controversial play "The Vagina was seen by some observers as 
bins have been placed next to to do double sided printing." was a great resource to have in Monologues" in an academic a repudiation of the Land 
every dorm computer. Burchett said printers are the dorms." setting. O'Lakes Statement. Though 
Macintosh laptops have not also going into "sleep mode" Senior Maureen Bauer said "Although he spoke eloquent­interpretations vary widely, 
yet defaulted to double sided when not being used in order she appreciated the new addi­ly about the importance of dia­some view the document as 
printing. Mac users must con­to save energy. tions to residence halls. logue with the president of the decreasing institutional autono­
figure their computers to print "We are trying to use power "I think it's helpful, not so United States, the president of my for the sake of increased 
double sided, Technology savings on the printers to much now when you can walk Notre Dame chose not to dia­church authority. 
Enhanced Learning Spaces reduce energy consumption outside, but when it's snowing logue with his bishop on these On this question -and others 
Manager Brian Burchett said. when printers are not being you don't have to walk to CoMo two matters, both pastoral and regarding the role of the local 
"We're working on it. We just used," he said. or DeBartalo to print," she both with serious ramifications bishop and the responsibility of 
need a little more time to do Overall, there have only been said. "That will be great." for the care of souls, which is universities to bear witness to 
double sided printing by minor technical difficulties that the core responsibility of the the faith -"rests the future of 
default," Burchett said. should be solved soon, Contact Sarah Mervosh at local bishop," D'Arcy wrote. Catholic higher education in 
In addition to helping to Burchett said. smervosh@nd.edu 

"The diocesan bishop must this country and so much else," ask whether a Catholic institu­D'Arcy wrote. tion compromises its obligation D'Arcy also chided the to give public witness by plac­University Board of Trustees for 
coolest event because before of Lyons said while she felt ing prestige over truth," he their silence on the Obama visit 
the run we were puppies and like she didn't get to meet said. controversy, saying that when 

Frosh-0 

after the run we were many freshmen outside of her D'Arcy raised a final, "funda­the board met one month prior 
continued from page 1 dawgs," Finan said. dorm, she isn't too concerned. mental" question in the piece to Commencement "they said 
Stephanie Bonaroti of "The girls I met during about his concerns over the nothing." 
to college life easier for Howard Hall said the smaller Frosh-0 were all pretty much future of Catholic universities. "I believe that the board ... 
incoming freshmen by hosting events enabled her to better in my hall but I'm not worried "Where will the great Catholic must take up its responsibility 
events that help students get know people in her dorm. about it," Palumbo said. "I universities search for a guiding afresh, with appropriate study 
to know each other and "We had a night where we know the people I'm living light in the years ahead? Will it and prayer," he wrote. "They 
become familiar with the talked about Howard Hall tra­with and I'll get to know the be the Land O'Lakes Statement must also understand the seri­
campus. ditions and I really felt like I others in class. or Ex Corde Ecclesiae?" he ousness of the present 
Many freshmen students bonded with the girls in my "When we were in smaller wrote, placing the two docu­moment." 
embraced the Frosh-0 events dorm," she said. groups it was much more of a ments related to roles of 
that took place within their Bonaroti, however, pressure-free «;lnvironment," Catholic universities in contrast 
dorms. expressed disappointment she said. "There were so to one another. Contact Aaron Steiner at 
"We got to actually talk to that she did not have more many of the big events where The Land O'Lakes Statement asteiner@nd.edu 
one another at the smaller opportunities to become social interaction was forced 
events," freshman Kelly acquainted with students that it got tiring." 
Brakora said. "It was easy to from other dorms. Bonaroti said she feels 
get conversations going." "When we did do things relief now that orientation is 
even four months, I don't think 
Freshman Dan Finan said with other dorms it was over. we would be living here." 
his favorite orientation event always in a situation where "I felt isolated as a fresh­But the early deposit was 


ComiDons 

was Alumni's "Dawg Run," you were thrown together men during Frosh-0," continued from page 1 more than worth it. 
named for the dorm's mascot, and you didn't get to really Bonaroti said. "Now I feel "The amenities are awesome. 

which gives freshman a know the other people or more part of the school." and the other three, Sept. 18. Everything is top-notch," 
chance to run around cam­really even know their Later in the year, a 24-hour LaFleur said. "We have a gym 
pus. names," she said. Contact Molly Madden at fitness center, a salon, a bank, and a private theater." 
"The run was definitely the Freshman Hache! Palumbo mmadden3@nd.edu a breakfast restaurant, Five LaFleur said he generally 
Guys Burgers and two other restaurants -Doc Magrogan's Oyster House and Kildare's Irish Pub -are expected to open. The estimated opening dates of these venues span from late September to January. 
Hakanen said Eddy Street, which has been closed for about 14 months, is expected to open Monday Aug. 31., allow­ing foot and motor traffic through the Commons. 
"I think it will be a real addi­tion for students living on cam­pus," he said. "Most colleges and universities have a college town where you can leave your dorm and walk to stores and restaurants. Notre Dame has never really had that." 
Hakanen said the Eddy Street Commons apartments are not geared toward student housing. Some graduate students live in the complex, but only a handful of undergraduates are current­ly renting. 
LaFleur said he and his roommates put down a deposit last October. 
"We were far and away one of the first groups to go talk to them. There was no building yet. It was just a hole in the ground," he said. "If we waited describes the theater -a com­mon area for residents of the complex -to his friends as similar to Coleman-Morse Center lounge but with two 50­inch televisions, a Blu-ray play­er and an Xbox 360. 
"There's also this screen that's maybe two time the size of the screens in the classrooms of DeBartolo that lives in the ceiling," he said. "You can bring it down to watch DVDs or just TV." 
LaFleur said the apartment complex's proximity to campus was a major part of the deci­sion process to live there. 
"The big thing was that I don't have a car," he said. "There aren't too many options if you don't have a set of wheels, so this is perfect. 
"Now we are just really excit­ed for all the retail to open up." 
Hakanen said the venues in the Commons are about two­thirds committed. 
"With an active football sea­son and all the people coming for that, I am confident that Kite will be able to lease the rest of the space in a pretty short amount of time," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


Confirmation 


Sunday~ August lOt 4-S P.M. Thursday, Sf!!!ptember l. 5:30-6:30 P.M. Sunday, Septemb~r 6, 4~5 P..M. 


Room 330 Coleman~ Morn Center 
Contact: Fr. John Conley 631,.7888 
Of' 
John & Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
CM 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, August 27, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVE~s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Philippines honors White House Chef 
MANILA, Philippines -For the White House chef, serving homegrown vegetables straight from the garden is just like prepar­ing food in her native Philippines -healthy and simple. 
Filipino-American Cristeta Pasia­Comerford, the first woman and first minori­ty to serve as the executive chef in the White House, credited the first lady for making sure her family eats steamed, organic veg­etables from the garden Michelle Obama planted in April. 
She is one of three to be honored this year by the Bank of the Philippines as an out­standing Filipino overseas. The honor will be formally awarded on Tuesday. 
The naturalized American said that picking food from the garden reminds her of sum­mers at her grandmother's house in the Philippines' Bulacan province. . 
"They like simple meals, they like simple food," she said of the first family. 
Womens' role in Camorra increases 
NAPLES, Italy -Move over, Don Corleone. Godmothers are rising in the ranks of the Camorra, the Naples' area crime syndicate. 
Women have long played a strong role in Camorra crime families, muscling, some­times murdering, their way to the top. Their influence stretches back as far as the 1950s when a pregnant former beauty queen dubbed "pupetta" (little doll) shot dead the man who had ordered a hit on her husband, and allegedly settled into a life of crime. 
Now, as the state steps up its war against the Camorra, rounding up scores of mob­sters, the women are increasingly taking over the helm from their men. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gay clergy not widely accepted 
MINNEAPOLIS -Two smaller, more conserva­tive U.S.-based Lutheran denominations are expressing disappointment in the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America's decision to open a wider door to gay clergy. 
The ELCA voted last week to lift a ban that pro­hibited sexually active gay and lesbian people from serving as ministers. Under the change, congregations will now be allowed to hire homo­sexuals in committed relationships as clergy. Before, gays and lesbians had to remain celibate to serve as pa..'itors. 
The 4.7 million-member denomination, which took the actions in Minneapolis at its biennial meeting,became the largest U.S. Protestant denomination to take that step. 


Union okays contract with pay cuts 
INDIANAPOLIS -The union represent­ing newsroom and other employees at The Indianapolis Star has ratified a two-year contract that includes a 10 percent pay cut. 
The Newspaper Guild Local 34070 says its members voted 56-45 on Tuesday in favor of the contract, which runs through August 2011 and suspends all merit pay increases. The contract covers about 185 editorial and building services employees. 
Company officials have said the pay cut is necessary because of the recession. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana to recieve swine flu vaccine 
INDIANAPOLIS -State health officials expect to receive an initial shipment of at least 838,000 doses of swine flu vaccine by late October with additional dosages expected to arrive weekly, they've told local health officers. 
Indiana is set to receive about 2 percent of the nation's production of the vaccine, based on population. If total production reaches the 195 million doses the govern­ment has ordered by December, Indiana's share would be more than 4 million doses, enough for about a third of Indiana's pop­ulation of 6.38 million people. Most peo­ple are expected to need two doses given three weeks apart. 

Iraq violence puts off plan for setninary 
Muslim family dream to teach both Islam and ways of the West is put on hold 
Associated Press 
DETROIT-It took years for a family of prominent American Shiite scholars to build a specialized semi­nary that would train Americans and Europeans to lead mosques in the West. 
The founders chose a location in their native Iraq, in the holy Shiite city of Karbala, where the stu­dents would have access to many of the best teachers. 
Private guards were lined up, a custom curriculum developed and housing secured for the first class of 25 students. The scholars, members of the al-Qazwini family, who trace their roots to the Prophet Muhammad, felt they were finally taking concrete steps toward easing the desper­ate shortage of Western­born imams. 
But violence once again erupted in Iraq, and the al­Qazwinis had to put their dream on hold, dropping their plan to open their school this year. 
"It was extremely disap­pointing. I was waiting so long for this program to start and unfortunately I had to call it off personally," said Imam Hossein al­Qazwini, a Karbala scholar Sheik Hamza Yusuf and among the foremost Shiite it comes to Islamic semi­who is the program's Imam Zaid Shakir, two Islamic scholars in Iraq. naries. If we were to have it founder and director. respected U.S.-born Muslim Four of his six sons have in Dearborn, for example, "Being American citizens or scholars, are planning to led American Islamic insti­you don't have the special­European citizens, maybe open an Islamic college tutions. Moustafa al­ized scholars," Hossein ai­someone will take them as next fall, the first in the U.S. Qazwini is imam of the Qazwini said. ransom. Coming from the They hope it will grow to Islamic Educational Center The idea of sending U.S., from Europe, maybe include a seminary. of Orange County, Calif. Westerners to study in Iraq people will think they have At their Imam al-Sadiq Hassan al-Qazwini is the is not so far-fetched for money." Seminary, the al-Qazwinis imam of the Islamic Center Muslims. 
As Muslims try to estab­hope to teach both the of America in Dearborn, Traveling for study has lish communities in the Islamic sciences and the one of America's largest always been part of Islamic West, they have been strug­cultural traditions of the mosques. learning. Scholars in gling with how they can West. Hossein al-Qazwini said it Karbala and Qom, Iran, educate Western-born "The goal is to train reli­was easier for them to start attract Shiite students from imams to fill a leadership gious leaders who can a school in Karbala than in around the globe. For vacuum in local mosques. serve their home countries the U.S. because the costs Sunnis, who comprise the 
There are no full-fledged so that, eventually, fewer were significantly lower majority of Muslims, stu­Muslim seminaries in the mosques in the West will overseas. With instructors dents from around the 
U.S. for Shiites or Sunnis. have to import imams from drawn from the larger world flock to the promi­
Hartford Seminary in overseas," said Imam Shiite seminary and nent Al-Azhar University in Connecticut offers a gradu­Hossein al-Qazwini. Karbala University, the al­Cairo. ate program for Muslim The family is well-posi­Qazwini's could build a But although Western chaplains who work in the tioned to take on such an much stronger faculty. students at foreign semi­
U.S. military and elsewhere. ambitious project. "Karbala is known to have naries are encouraged to The Zaytuna Institute in Their father, Ayatollah a prestigious seminary. It's dive deep into the local cul­Berkeley, Calif., led by Mortadha al-Qazwini, is like Yale or Stanford when ture. 

Wind farms cause false weather alerts 
Associated Press 
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. -Wind farms have been blamed for disrupting the lives of birds, bats and, most recently, the land-bound sage grouse. 
Now the weather forecaster? 
The massive spinning blades affixed to towers 200 feet high can appear on Doppler radar like a vio­lent storm or even a tornado. 
The phenomenon has affected several National Weather Service radar sites in different parts the country, even leading to a false tor­nado alert near Dodge City, Kansas, in the heart of Tornado Alley. In Des Moines, Iowa, the weather service received a frantic warning from an emergency work­er who had access to Doppler radar images. 
The alert was quickly called off in Kansas and meteorologists calmed the emergency worker down, but with enough wind tur­bines going up last year to power more than 6 million homes and a major push toward alternative energy, more false alerts seem inevitable. 
New installations are concentrat­ed, understandably in windy states like Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Colorado and Iowa, all part of Tornado Alley. 
Texas, which has more tornadoes 
than any other state, also has the most wind power capacity. 
Dave Zaff, science and operations officer with the National Weather Service office in Buffalo, N.Y., describes the wind farms 20 to 35 miles to the southeast as "more of a pimple or a blotch on your face" that 99 percent of the time will not pose a problem. 
But what about those busy, high­stress periods when a meteorolo­gist is tasked with making quick decisions as storms grow violent? In a worse-case scenario, a fore­caster could disregard a real storm for turbine interference, but, more likely, would err on the side of cau­tion, Zaff said. 
page 6 

The Observer + NEWS Thursday, August 27, 2009 

Teen-lit books pron1ote self-esteen1 
r 

Rectors 
continued from page 1 
good memories with Freshman Orientation, including winning her own rubber duck at trivia 
together. This extra time helped when it came to work­ing together." 
Broderiek is also adjusting well to her new schedule. 
''I'm more of a night person anyway," Broderick said. "I think I'm adjusting well. 
"I was ready 
for a change," Broderick said. "I had a good friend at work that went to Notre Dame who said I'd be perfect." 
One of the biggest chal­lenges is dealing with the size of her dorm, Broderick said. 

''I'm trying to get to know as many girls as possible on all different levels," Broderick said. "There's just one of me. I wish I could multiply myself." 
The new rectors share simi­lar goals. 
"God called me to Notre 
night in the Oak Room. 
"The Frosh-0 team was great!" she said. 
Sr. Cindy Broderick, OP, f r o m Pasquerilla East, said she had a positive Freshman Orientation and move-in experi­ence. 
''I'm surprised 

'Tm trying to get to know as many girls as possible on all different levels." 
Cindy Broderick 
P.E. rector 
training, we spent a lot of time to educate 
"God called me to Notre Dame to send women into leadership. " 
Lucille D' Amelio Howard rector 
Dame to send women into leadership," D'Amelio said. "My gifts and my experience in my life led me this way." 
Broderick models her goals after the University's teachings. 
"I want to build a commu­nity, and help 

at how smooth move-in went," instill the Holy Cross eare­Broderick said. "During staff ism," Broderick said. "I want 

the heart and mind." 
Both want to stress the idea of "home" in the dorms. 
"This is home, it is comfortable and fun to be here," D'Amelio said. "We'll always be wel­coming and just be there [for the girls]." 
"They can come in here 

and feel safe," Broderick said. "Not just security safe -they can let their guard down and be honored and loved because of who they are." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
Like never before, teen lit is alive with plus-size characters who take on their sehool tor­menters and get the guy, soak­ing up self-esteem as football heroes and big-girl models. 

While fat may not be the new vampire, the uptick comes at just the right time for young readers. Childhood obesity is epic while a large, loud and proud fat acceptance move­ment advoeates good health at any size over doomed diets, food obsessions and body shame. 
In titles that include "Looks," "Models Don't Eat Chocolate Cookies" and "This Book Isn't Fat, It's Fabulous," young peo­ple with meat on their bones are front and center in at least two dozen new books out sinee last year, rather than the usual ugly-duckling best friend or neighbor. Many of the stories conelude without significant weight loss, a huge break­through for some young fans. 
"There weren't many charac­ters I could relate to when I was younger," said Elizabeth Sterling, an 18-year-old nursing student who writes a blog called Diary of a Fat Teenager. 'The message that would eome across to my young insecure brain would be, 'In order to do what they do, you need to look like them."' 
Allen Zadoff's September release "Food, Girls and Other Things I Can't Have" relies on wit and cutting dialogue to tell the story of a rare overweight boy protagonist. Zadoff, 42, said he was obese growing up like his 15-year-old Andrew Zansky. 
"I was not just overweight. I was struggling with an eating disorder. I got larger and larger over time. No amount of dieting would fix the problem for me. I would lose weight and then gain it all back," Zadoff said. Out of his struggle came his acclaimed adult memoir in 2007, "Hungry: Lessons Learned on the Journey from Fat to Thin." 
The upeoming book, his first for young readers, features Andrew, a high sehoul sopho­more who weighs 306.4 pounds. lie dreads squeezing into his classroom desk and rubs oil' the very public size 48 lettering on the outer waist of Levi's he can barely zip. lie lusts for an insider's life and makes it as a jock, only to read­just his priorities. 
"When I was in my sopho­more year in high sehool, the coaeh eame up to me and asked me if I had ever considered playing football," Zadoff said. "At the time I was insulted. I knew he was just asking me bfJeause I was big, so I said no. Andrew says yes. As a result, his life path takes a radical turn. I wrote the book to kind of explore how would my life had been dill"erent if I had said yes instead of no." 
In C. Leigh Purtill's "All About Vee," bold and bright 18-year­old Veroniea May also says yes -to life, love and adventure. 
Veroniea is a big (217 

pounds) and talented star in the community theater scene in her tiny border town of Chester, Ariz., where she grows frus­trated with the life path of her equally large father. Then she heads to Hollywood to make it as an actor, contending for the first time with eompetition from the size zeros. 
After some ups and downs, she gets the hunk while staying true to herself. 
"Too many books have the girls as overweight, then they go to fat camp or they become the beautiful person by dieting, by losing weight," Purtill said. "There always seemed to be this losing weight element that was key to their happiness. l just wanted my characters to be representative of a lot of people out there." 
Skyanne Fisher, a book blog­ger and 14-year-old of size in the small northeastern Pennsylvania town of Wyalusing, said she's a Vee fan for precisely those reasons. 
"It was one of the books that I really connected to -I loved how she made her own way, had friends and got the boy without forcing herself to lose weight," she said. "It IS possible to be happy as you are." 
In addition to Vee, there's eighth-grader Celeste Harris, happy living in oversized hood­ies under her middle school's social radar until a meddling aunt enters her in the Miss HuskyPeach Modeling Challenge in Erin Dionne's "Models Don't Eat Chocolate Cookies." 

i 
4. 


''*' 


lll£~11lll 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

MARKET RECAP 

OHGRO\JP ;(; .) ~; t. >\l\2 4 tpj fAf~~~l£ M,,A£:: (FU'4) -0.$4 <LOi 1 65 ~~ ·.':)(' >"t~f€RJCA {akfi •O,lJ -<00<1 H/'9 SA>• f:1.1' Rf(:f!MS (SPY} ~'\(Jl +{LOl liJJ17 
Treasuries 

tl}Y~ NOTE ·031 >\Hl1 3 . .44 ll-Wt:t:K B!LL ·&4:· (UJ1 13.14$ ll) YfAA OOND {Lti {!.Ql 420 S·YfAR r«llE ·(Hi ·<U:n ; 45 
Commodities 

UGH! CRU()f: {$./beL) ~-~l nAl row {VTftf:t o:.} 4t 20 545.$0 PORI( BtlilESi (certts{!b . .) ·Z>OO ?&AS 
Yf:N 44.1150 !UitO tA240 CMiA.DWi OO.W L\19!1 f:utmSl1~ U.Jll 

IN BRIEF 

Nokia annonnces plans for new laptop 
NEW YORK -Nokia Corp., the world's largest maker of cell phones, said Monday that it will start making a small, light laptop, similar to ones PC manufacturers are already selling through wireless carriers around the world. 
The Finnish company says the Nokia Booklet 3G will run Microsoft Corp.'s Windows software, have a 1()-inch screen and weigh 2.8 pounds. That puts it squarely in the "netbook" category pioneered by Taiwanese manufacturers like AsusTek Computer Inc. 
Nokia said it would reveal the price and launch date of the PC on Sept. 2. Most net­books sell for less than $500. 
Nokia said its PC would be "satisfying a need" among wireless carriers. AT&T Inc. and Verizon Wireless have started selling netbooks in their stores, subsidizing the pur­chase for customers who sign up for wireless broadband plans. Sprint Nextel Corp. has started subsidizing netbooks sold at Best Buy. In Europe, many carriers started selling netbooks last year. 
Thesis project secures Xbox spot 
LOS ANGELES -Matt Korba and his pals are busy turning his interactive media thesis project from a rudimentary silent mm-themed video-game prototype into a fleshed-out puzzler featuring over 80 levels that will be available for download on Xbox Live Arcade early next year. 
That transformation is occurring in a small unassuming loft space above a chicken-wing eatery in downtown Los Angeles. It's located ­appropriately enough -halfway between the University of Southern California campus and the Los Angeles Convention Center, home of the Electronic Entertainment Expo, the gaming indus­try's annual convention. 
"We've sort of been very quiet for a year," says Korba. "No one really knows we exist." 
1\.ftPr graduating from USC, Korba and hi<; buddy Paul Bellezza formed their own developer, The Odd Gentlemen, and set out to fmd a publisher for "The Misadventures of P.B. Winterbottom," their time-bonding, two-dimensional platforming game starring a pie-loving silent film star named P.B. Winterbottom. 
---------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
Plus-sizedfashion market sees sale dips 
Recession has anegative impact on clothing industry, particularly the plus-sized market 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -The American waistline may be expand­ing, but plus-size shoppers are tightening their belts. 
People just aren't buying plus-size clothing at the rate they used to. Apparel in general -being a dis­cretionary purchase -is suffering because of the economy, but plus-size has been particularly hard hit. 
According to the NPD Group, a market research company, the overall women's apparel business is down about 5 percent and plus-size is down almost 10 percent from the 12 months ending in May 2009 compared to the same time the year before. 
It's hard to account for the dip at a time when more than half of American women are esti­mated to wear plus-sizes, generally considered size 14 and up, but analysts have some theories. 
"The stigma still contin­ues despite the majority of the population is over­weight," said Marshal Cohen, chief retail analyst at NPD. The stigma means some retailers don't want to lure overweight cus­tomers and send out the knocked out of the store," workers hard, obese Bryant in September, while "wrong" image, experts he said. "Even though they (workers) are hit particu­Forever 21 has launched said, and the customers built it, this was not a field larly hard," said Jay a plus-size line called themselves may feel put off of dreams for the retailer." Bhattacharya, associate Faith 21. by many stores. And there's also the professor of medicine at And for some retailers, 
Some retailers, including uncomfortable connection Stanford University. plus-size clothing remains Old Navy, Banana Republic between obesity and lower Christie L. Nordhielm, a relative bright spot. and Ann Taylor, have incomes, which might help associate professor of mar­"I will say that the gen­taken their plus-size col­explain the dip. A study of keting at the University of eral apparel and upscale lections out of stores and nationally representative Michigan, said that if over­retailers is soft and large are selling only online -data on American workers weight people are paid sizes is no worse -a little which some experts say by two professors at less, it would make sense better-than the apparel." plus-size shoppers prefer. Stanford University found that they would cut down said Frank Doroff, 

Others, including H&M, that obese workers at the on buying clothes. Bloomingdale's vice chair­have dropped out of the same level of job experi­"If they are stressed man and general merchan­plus-size market. ence, education and gen­about paying their mort­dise manager for ready-to­
Several years ago, stores der earned less than their gage they are not going to wear. had made an effort to thinner colleagues. be in a clothing store get­Bloomingdale's sells plus expand the plus-size mar­For women, there was a ting this year's hot new sizes at 80 percent of the ket, but they have basically statistically significant dif­look," she said. stores across the U.S., and abandoned that during the ference of wages of $2.64 Still, several brands are Doroff said the department recession, Cohen said. per hour. For men it was reaching out to plus-size store is trying to add 
"They've made feeble 58 cents per hour, which customers. Lane Bryant is brands that cater to pi us attempts at going after it, wasn't statistically signifi­launching a couture­sizes including Lauren by but now that business is cant. inspired line called the Ralph Lauren and Jones challenged, it is first thing "The recession has hit icon Collection by Lane New York. 

Ownerstakeadvantageoftaxdeadlines 
Associated Press looks like it's healing, many owners Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 
might want to reconsider some of 2009, as the stimulus law is official­
NEW YORK -With a pair of tax the decisions they made during the ly known. deadlines approaching, small busi­recession. One of the other benefits of the act ness owners have a chance to turn There are some immediate tax is the expanded Section 179 deduc­some bureaucratic requirements decisions to be made. John Evans, a tion, which allows small businesses into a planning opportunity for the partner with the accounting firm to deduct up-front rather than rest of 2009. BDO Seidman in New York, noted depreciate the cost of equipment 
Sept. 15 is the day companies that the government's economic such as computers, furniture, manu­must make quarterly estimated tax stimulus measures allowed busi­facturing machines and vehicles, up payments, and it's also the due date nesses that incurred net operating to $250,000. Yet another benefit is for corporations to submit 2008 tax losses in 2008 to carry them back the bonus depreciation measure returns if they obtained extensions five years instead of the usual two. that increases the portion of a pur­of the filing deadline back in March. That means they could apply those chase price that can be deducted for And Oct. 15 is the due date for sole losses against taxes paid in the past the first year. proprietors and partners who got and obtain refunds. Companies that Evans, who noted that small busi­extensions of the April 15 deadline. got extensions of the filing deadlines nesses can take advantage of both of 
The tax calendar always offers can still take advantage of this tax break. these tax benefits, said companies business owners a chance to look at The IRS home page, www.irs.gov, might feel they're in a better posi­their books. assess how their com­has a link to information about the tion now than they were a few panies are doing and plot their carryback provision and other tax months ago and consider some big strategy. In an economy that now benefits under the American capital expenditures. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, August 27, 2009 

Chicken-keeping popularin Portland 
Associated Press 
POHTLAND -North Williams Avenue is a street with a sound­track like most any other in the neighborhoods of Portland. There's the swishing of bikes, the rustling of leaves, the whirring of motors. 
But then there's something else under those familiar notes: a tiny warble of clucks coming from a chicken coop set in a front yard. 
Newspapers across the coun­try have been splashing urban and suburban chicken-keeping across their front pages. It's the latest thing, they say. But in Portland, it's old hat. For the past few years, chicken-keeping has found its place here. 
It seems odd at first; a back­ground beat added to the wrong song. But if you listen as you walk along the streets, it's a chorus that starts to sound familiar. 
Portland Mayor Sam Adams has two hens. Spots in chicken­raising classes fill up nearly as fast as the nurseries in North Portland can plan them. Hatcheries have trouble keep­ing up with demand. Hesidents dedicate blogs to their chickens. 
And late last month, hun­dreds of people turned out for the Sixth Annual Tour de Coop, a self-guided tour of 26 chicken coops. 

More people using layaway 
"It's inspiring," said Naomi Coplin, one of the chicken­watchers as she looked around at the setup just off North Williams Avenue. 
The yard looked like a water­color painting. Greens and reds and yellows and pinks folded in on each other. Sunflowers taller than the visitors shot up from the tilled ground. Haised beds offered up produce. Bees and butterflies shot through the air, using wildflowers as landing pads. And at the center of the garden was one of Portland's most impressive coops. 
The structure wound through the yard in the shape of a "V." There was a roost, a run, a tower for lounging and a sign out front in the shape of an egg. "Hens for Obama," it read. 
On that warm Sunday, Coplin, 49, had come to this coop on a mission. 
''I'm hoping by the time we're done this morning, she's con­vinced," she said with a nod at her friend, Barb Wayson. 
Coplin already has her own chickens and Wayson, her old high school pal, has been mulling over getting some of her own. "I kind of pride myself on being an environmentalist," Wayson said. The hens would be one more step toward sus­tainability. They'd eat leftover scraps and offer up some fertil­izer and fresh eggs. 

Associated Press 

NEW YOHK-To gauge con­sumers' strain, look no further than the rows and rows of plas­tic bags awaiting layaway pay­ments at Kmart. They arc filled with back-to-school basics ­not just T-shirts and jeans but notebooks, magie markers and pencils. 
It is unheard of for layaway rooms to be so packed at back­to-school time and for the pack­ages to include relatively cheap school supplies. 
A record number of shoppers, shut off from credit and short on cash, are relying on Kmart's layaway program to pay for all of their kids' school needs, said Tom Aiello, a spokesman for Kmart's parent Sears Holdings Corp. Layaway allows shoppers to pay over time, interest-free, and pick up their merchandise when it's paid in full. 
"It's a sight. In the past, we would see layaway start to pick up around Halloween" as peo­ple get a jump start for Christmas, said David Travis, manager of a Kmart store in Conover, N.C. 
Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corp. said its lay­away business is stronger than a year ago. And e­Layaway.com, which offers online layaway services for about 1,000 merchants, has seen its business double from the same time last year. Customers are setting aside even $25 calculators and $30 backpacks. 
The word "layaway" had more than double the interest among U.S. searchers in August 2009 than it bad in August 2008, according to Google Insights for Search. 
Hetailers that don't ofl'er lay­away are seeing financially strapped shoppers keep buying smaller amounts and using more cash than credit to pay. 
"It just tells you that con­sumers hav1~ no money -even that $30 backpack is something they can't all'ord," said C. Britt Beemer, chairman of America's Hesearch group. 
Layaway has its roots in the Great Depression. It became passe in the past two decades with the rise of credit cards. 
But the recession and finan­cial crisis have caused banks to raise rates, pare credit limits and close accounts. For some consumers, layaway is the best option to budget for purchases. 
Buying a little at a time and other signs of stress are casting a dark cloud over the holiday season, which accounts for as much as 40 percent of annual sales for many retailers. 
Many economists expect to see another holiday season of sales declines, on top of last year's Christmas period, the weakest in several decades. That's raising more doubts about an economic recovery because consumer spending accounl'i for 70 percent of eco­nomic activity. 
Kmart's Travis predicts this Christmas will be a "record-set­ting" layaway season. 

The worries about a weak Christmas come amid a back­to-school season that the National Hetail Federation expects will see families cut 8 percent of spending from last year. 
Tracey Y. Chandler of Hocky Mount, N.C., started using lay­away at the local Kmart last Christmas as the economy soured and again this past sum­mer to furnish her 8-year-old daughter's bedroom. 
Last weekend, she put aside $150 worth of back-to-school clothes at Sears stores. 
"The job market is too unsta­ble to take on additional debt," said Chandler. She and her hus­band both work as teachers' assistants, and she fears they could be casualties of budget cuts. 
Sears Holdings brought back layaway to its namesake department stores last holiday season after a two-decade hia­tus. This year, the company also is copying old-fashioned Christmas club bank accounts to help its Kmart and Sears cus­tomers save for gifts. 
Competitors have been slow to follow, which may give stores like Sears who have them an edge. 
Wal-Mart discontinued the practice in 2006, except for jew­elry, citing rising costs and falling demand. TJX Cos., which offers layaway in some of its Marshalls and T.J. Maxx stores and nearly all of its A.J. Wright locations, declined to comment on its layaway business. 

JHIS SAT 0 5 
IN fMI 11 t,OT fiA'fURINO 
MAIIIY&HU 
•llifo 

laiC lt,U'ICMtNIOR 
&Polf!JlilhiNoUI ,U 

I'WIIw i\IIIUiihU i¥1,. Wil!U U~U; ••••,. 
.,, .;.a•t1•ll ' ., ""91'nn• 
J.U>QI W.J J•,•~ttiM1 J1R • Uu P.tt Md~l\4 llllill ,.,... 

PLUS ••• 


dJI,IltU: Jlllli\il!it. ITA~tt• tUi.IQIIi :UO YIIIO W.AUti 
•COlt VliliOO:WII 
llllt (,h.. IDIN1 COtHHOLIJ 

.& t11r teH,JanA Mtu~11 M.oan 
ww • .. • '•toe•~~~'•••'~'~ to• 
tllH U$ i. ••fili.i 






SCREAMING 


Thursday, August 27, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
World economy improving 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON­Turnabouts in European and Asian economies, along with recent gains in the U.S., are raising hopes that that the worldwide recession is drawing to a close. That's not to say the coast is clear. 
The brightening outlook in Europe and Asia and the improvement in U.S. credit markets and indicators reflect heavy government stimulus spending. Many analysts question whether the top economies can sus­tain recoveries after stimu­lus measures and easy-cred­it policies have run their course -and in the absence of significant new consumer spending, especially among Americans. 
"It's not clear that these economies can continue to move forward without stim­ulus," said Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody's Economy.com. "And that's in part why stock markets across the globe are nerv­ous." 
It will be difficult for other countries to pull out of recession until the U.S., still one quarter of the world economy, starts growing, he said. 
Arter a frightening free­fall across Europe in late 2008, France and Germany, the continent's two largest economies, reported recent­ly that they had grown slightly in the second quar­ter of 2009. Other major European countries reported they were still struggling, but with generally improved figures over late 2008 and earlier this year. 
China, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea have also reported rebounds as government stimulus efforts across the globe have begun to show results. 
Hussia. among the hardest hit of major economies as oil prices slumped and many foreign investors fled the country, appeared to be sta­bilizing. 
Meanwhile, in the United States. the Federal Reserve said the world's largest economy appeared to be "leveling out" and many flconomists see a second-half rebound. 
It all adds up to an improving picture ahead of an economic summit next month in Pittsburgh of the world's top 20 industrial and developing economies. 
It is the third such meeting of all the major economic players, after one convened by former President George 
W. Bush in November in Washington, and one held earlier this year in London. It is the first to be held recently as economies appear to be improving. 
But until American con­sumers begin spending again, and so long as jobs are still being lost, the dura­bility of any recovery is questionable. Major retail­ers reported this week that 
U.S. consumers are continu­ing to rein in spending on all but basics. 
Despite slight recent improvements in many U.S. economic statistics, many consumers haven't seen a change in their lives. 
So many jobs have been lost -nearly seven million since the recession began in December 2007 -that the unemployment rate will remain high long after the economy begins to rebound. 
Many out-of-work Americans have lost unem­ployment and severance benefits and are depleting their savings. Others are saving more and spending less, still shaken from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. 
"This is going to be the mother of all jobless recov­eries," said Allen Sinai, chief 
global  economist  for  
Decision Economics,  a  con­ 
sulting firm.  

Japan, the world's second­largest economy, grew 0. 9 percent in the second quar­ter, or April to June, com­pared with the prior quarter as export sales picked up after the country's deepest slump since World War II, the Japanese government reported earlier this week. It was the latest major econ­omy to report upbeat sec­ond-quarter results. 
Japan's return to growth -thanks to a 6.3 percent uptick in exports along with government stimulus meas­ures -marked the end of a yearlong recession. 
But the development, along with recent news that other major economies had resumed economic growth or were stabilizing, did not impress investors as global stock markets sank and then zigzagged amid fears by jit­tery international investors that the recoveries were not sustainable. 
In the United States, the gross domestic product con­tracted at a 1 percent pace in the April-June quarter, after plunging 6.4 percent in the January-March quarter, the worst in 27 years, and fell by 5.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008. 
The latest statistics sug­gested the recession is in its final stages, and some econ­omists believe it may have already ended. 
Still, economists are mixed on the pace of recovery. Many barriers clearly stand in the way of a quick rebound. 
Noting China's fast bounce -it posted more than 6 percent growth in the first half of 2009 -Peter Morici, a business economist at the University of Maryland and a critic of Obarna's econom­ic-recovery plans, said: "China has a $400 billion stimulus package, and its economy is firing on all cylinders. President Obama has an $800 billion stimulus but prospects for the U.S. economic recovery are frag­ile." 
Other economists are guardedly optimistic. And Lawrence Summers, the top White House economic adviser, predicts "a substan­tial return to normalcy" in the coming months. 
While acknowledging "we have a long way to go," he notes that most forecasts for GOP growth in the second half of the year are now pos­itive. 
"It is reasonable to say that we are in a very differ­ent place than we were six months ago; that the sense of free-fall. of vertical deeline, has been con­tained," he told a recent economic forum. 
Most economists and ana­lysts seem to agree. 
CANADA 


Beetles pose threat in Yukon Territory 
Associated Press 
HAINES JUNCTION -A veil of smoke settled over the forest in the shadow of the St. Elias Mountains, in a wilderness whose spruce trees stood tall and gray, a deathly gray even in the greenest heart of a Yukon sum­mer. 
"As far as the eye can see, it's all infested," forester Rob Legare said, looking out over the thick woods of the Alsek River valley. 
Beetles and fire, twin plagues, are consuming northern forests in what scientists say is a pre­view of the future, in a century growing warmer, as the land grows drier, trees grow weaker and pests, abetted by milder win­ters, grow stronger. 
Dying, burning forests would then only add to the warming. 
It's here in the sub-Arctic and Arctic -in Alaska, across Siberia, in northernmost Europe, and in the Yukon and elsewhere in northern Canada -that Earth's climate is changing most rapidly. While average tempera­tures globally rose 0.7 4 degrees Celsius (1.3 degrees Fahrenheit) in the past century, the far north experienced warming at twice that rate or greater. 
In Russia's frigid east, some average temperatures have risen more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), with mid­winter mercury spiking even higher. And "eight of the last 10 summers have been extreme wildfire seasons in Siberia," American researcher Amber J. Soja pointed out by telephone from central Siberia. 
Along with shrinking the polar ice cap and thawing permafrost, scientists say, the warming of the Arctic threatens to turn boreal forest -the vast cover of spruce, pine and other conifers blanket­ing these high latitudes -into less of a crucial "sink" absorbing carbon dioxide and more of a source, as megatons of that greenhouse gas rise from dead, burning and decaying wood. 
American forest ecologist Scott Green worries about a "domino effect." 
"These things may occur simultaneously," said the 
researcher from the University of Northern British Columbia. "If the bark beetles kill the trees, you'll have lots of dead, dry wood that will create a really, really hot fire, and then sometimes you don't get trees regenerating on the site." 
Dominoes may already be falling in western North America. 
From Colorado to Washington state, an unprecedented, years­long epidemic of mountain pine beetle has killed 2.6 million hectares (6.5 million acres) of forest. The insect has struck even more devastatingly to the north, in British Columbia, where clouds of beetles have laid waste to 14 million hectares (35 million acres) -twice the area of Ireland. It is expected to kill 80 percent of the Canadian province's lodgepole pines before it's finished. 
Farther north, in the Yukon, the pine beetle isn't endemic ­yet. Here it's the spruce bark beetle that has eaten its way through 400,000 hectares (1 mil­lion acres) of woodland, and even more in neighboring Alaska, in a 15-year-old epidem­ic unmatched in its longevity and extent. 
"It's a fingerprint of climate change," Aynslie Ogden, senior researcher for the Yukon Forest Management Branch, said in Whitehorse, the territorial capi­tal. "The intensity and severity and magnitude of the infestation is outside the normal." 
Hiking through the wild and beetle-ravaged Alsek valley, Legare, the Yukon agency's for­est health expert, explained how the 7.5-millimeter (quarter-inchl insect does its damage. 
"Usually the female bores into the tree first, followed by the male, and then they mate and they both excavate a main egg gallery which runs parallel to the wood grain," he said. 
The hatched larvae, just beneath the outer bark. then feed via perpendicular galleries they bore around the tree, cut­ting off nutrients moving through the phloem and killing the plant. Its needles turn reddish. later gray, and eventually wind top­ples the dead wood. 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, August 27, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

Something for the ladies 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EorroR-IN-CIDEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING Kara King AssT. MANAGING Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMs Mike Moriarity 
0FRCE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudems ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the rigbr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through Jeerers is encour­aged. Letters to the Ediror musr be signed and musr include contact information. 
Qtustions regarding Observer policies should be dim:ted to EdittJr>.in-Chiifjenn Maz. 
POST 0FACE INFORMATION 
The ObKmr (USPS 5-99-2-4000) i,$ published Monday through Friday except dur­iug.exam and vacation periods. Asubscription to The ObS«Vtr is $12G-f1Jr-onc aca­demk: year; $65 for t~nc-SC~nu:ster. 
The: Observct iJ; published at: POSTMASTER 
02~ South Dining H.U S:ml addtf!SS cort«tions to: 
Nottt D;um, IN 465%o0779 1'It<Ob.<av« 
P<riodicalf'O'ug< paKI "Notre Dam< P.O. Box779 and addi,ioru.l mailing offices. 021 Somh Dining Hall 
Nom Dam<, IN 46556-<!779 

The: Observer is a member of rhe Assuci:tted. Pl'C!5. All ~production rights arc ==d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Robert Singer Sports Irena Zajickova Alex Barker Megan Loney Doug Farmer Graphics Chris Michalski 
Andrea Archer Scene Viewpoint Alexandra Stephanie Kilpatrick 
Vossler 
Ben Gibbard famously opened his breakthrough album "Transatlanticism" with "So this is the New Year I And I don't feel any differ­ent." Much like Gibbard, we upper­classmen face a brand new year. Unlike Gibbard, Brooks Smith we upperclassmen are not putting out Mightymultiplatinum 
Morphin
records to whine 
Power
about it. 
But the contrast goes deeper than relative success of indie rock albums. For many of us upperclassmen do feel different, because this new year represents a golden opportunity. Specifically, for the male juniors and seniors, this new year represents a golden opportunity to score with the hot and insecure fresh­men girls before they realize we are skeezballs. 
Now many of my fellow juniors and seniors are salivating at this opportu­nity. But I am one of the lucky few blessed with a huge captive audience: Viewpoint readers. So I cordially invite my fellow Y-chromes to suck it, because I got what you can only dream of: unprecedented access to the heart­strings of all the lly ladies. 
The best part of having power is abusing it. 
"Hold on now, youngster," I can hear some of my readers saying. "I can see quite a few logical fallacies in the above paragraphs. First of all, it is a truth universally acknowledged that writers don't get any. Second of all, your statement of purpose reveals that you are a soulless d-bag, which is counterproductive. Third of all, many hose may read your prose, but what makes you suppose that they will act as you propose?" 

To all my haters I set forth the fol­lowing point-by-point counter, in the style of my spiritual antecedent, St. Thomas Aquinas: 
Counter 1. Firstly, to the unfair stereotype that "writers don't get any," I direct the scholar to the curious case of Lord Byron, ladies' man extraordi­naire. This man, a towering great of English literature, was also a towering great of being a pimp. His lengthy, firm prose, dashing good looks, and all­around badassery made him a favorite with the fairer sex. "Mad, bad and dangerous to know," enthused one of his many conquests, and not without reason. 
I can hear the counter to this counter forming in many mouths: Do you really think you're on the same plane as Lord Byron? My counter-counter-counter: Yes. 
Counter 2. Being a soulless d-bag is far from counterproductive with the ladies. In fact, I would argue that it is the opposite of counterproductive. (Double negative bioteh!) 
But what is really at issue is that I have broken with good form and admitted that my personality is atro­cious. Even in this there is seholarly precedent once you consider the famous utterance of Ludacris: "Forget about game, Ima spit the truth." The verse continued, "I won't stop till I got em in they birfday suits." Words to live by. 
Counter 3. The point is getting your name out there. News flash: Woody Allen's success with the ladies wasn't based on charisma or looks, folks. 
Having thus handily disposed of my rivals, I am faced with by far the biggest challenge of all: overcoming my previous reputation. Underclasswomen, people will tell you that I am "nice." They will tell you that I am "sweet." They will tell you that I am a "good guy." They will claim that I am a "tender lover" who will "buy you presents on your birthday." They may even tell you "his column in the Observer was a joke." These people are liars who want to turn you against me. 
Let me tell you about my true per­sonality. I am an a-hole. I am ad-bag. I am a cad of the first water. I solemnly pledge that I will break your heart. I promise to flirt with, and later hook up with, your best friends and/or sisters. Make no mistake, I will leave you unsatisfied with me in every way. And I solemnly swear to lead you on shame­lessly about your ring by spring. Don't worry: I'll only leave you at the altar after all other opportunities to break up and salvage some dignity have passed by. 
I will guarantee you an experience that guys in dorms like Zahm only claim to deliver. You will be happy about your first college relationship. I am more than excited to be your first ever purely physical, dead-end, go­nowhere "friend with benefits," leaving emotional scars that will take months or years to heal and require many sleepless nights spent listening to "Transatlanticism." 
I can already tell you want me. 
Brooks Smith is a junior Math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at brooks26@nd. edu 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nothing succeeds like the 
"If at fi,rst you don't succeed, find 
appearance ofsuccess." out ifthe loser gets anything." 
Christopher Lasch Bill Lyon 
U.S. social critic U.S. author 

Thursday, August 27, 2009 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Wrongful Praise 



U-WIRE 

Boycott Berkeley classes taught by 'torture m.em.o' lavvyer 
I add my voice to the growing cho­tionallaw. rus of UC Berkeley faculty, staff, and The Bush administration did not alumni who are outraged by UC prosecute Yoo, and the Obama admin­Berkeley law professor John Yoo's Istration has so far balked at doingtwisting of the law in memos to pro­so. Appealing to academic freedom mote torture and tenure protections, the dean of and other abus­Kenneth the Boalt Hall School of Law refuses es of })OWer. to fire Yoo, even though faculty regu­
Worthy

Yoo has blood lations allow dismissal of a professor on his hands. He whose actions damage the universi­may not have University of ty's reputation; Yoo's actions certain­directly tortured California at ly have done so. Tenure was meant to people himself, protect freedom of expression, not
Berkelety

but as research criminal acts.
Daily

on genocide and Until Yoo is prosecuted for his war other atrocities Californian crimes and dismissed from his presti­shows, legal gious faculty position, I call on his fel­apologists such low faculty members to censure him as he and others for his work in the torture memos. surrounding the tOJ? of the chain of I call on law students to boycott his command play a cntical role in carry­classes to send him and the campusing out such acts. the clear message that his cynical 
Through this work, Yoo has not only manipulation orthe law (with the the­participated in actual instances of ory that "it's legal by definition if the torture (however remotely); he has president does It") and his role in also made it more dangerous for mili­enabling torture are unacceptable to tary personnel and other Americans the UC Berkeley community. To those traveling overseas. That, in addition law students who feel they must take to valuing human rights, is why mili­his classes, I urge you to vigorously tary leaders and lawyers reject Yoo's challenge Yoo's legal interpretations. position on torture. The use of torture And, I call on all community members by the U.S. has also probably made it to join in the active protests of Yoo's easier to recruit terrorists against us. continued presence m the law school. 
The well-J:mblicized shoddmess of These acts would signal to the Yoo's work m the "torture memos" is world that Berkeley does not condone a symptom of scholarship brought torture and those who promote it; into tlie service of ideology (Yoo's suc­they would reverse some of the dis­cessor quickly nullified tliem due to grace that Yoo has brought on this the weakness of their legal reason­community.ing). Personally, I see Yoo and his warmongering ilk in the Bush admin­This column first ran in the Aug. 25 istration not as strong, brave leaders edition of The Daily Californian, the (as they likely envision themselves), daily newspaper serving the but rather as frightened cowards University ofCalifornia at Berkeleyunable or unwilling to defend this The views expressed in this column nation without resorting to inhumane are those of the author and not practices and violations of interna-necessarily those of The Observer. 


Keep students infortned w-ithout creating HlNl panic 
When the H1N1 virus, more com­what risky. The vaccine will not have monly called swine flu, first ap.Peared been tested as thoroughly as other in April, there was an internatiOnal drugs, due to time constraints. We do outpouring of concern and fear. Talk not want 2009 to be remembered the of liundreds of thousands of deaths same way as 1918, when one-third of flooded the air-the world's population suffered from waves and front the flu.
Editorial Board

pages, and Besides the apparent reason to take emergency action to save hves, there is another rooms grew University of motive to avoid slowing down the crowdeo as economy yet again. With the interna­
Alabama

patients with a tional commumty in the midst of a
The Crimson 

sore throat recession, a worldwide flu pandemicfeared the White would cost billions of dollars at a worst. The most inopportune time. Centers for At this point, the best preventionDisease Control and Prevention strategies are the same tactics used reported the number of doctor's visits to prevent an infectious disease, for flu-like illnesses more than dou­namely hand washing. The CDC also bled the week the warnings came out. says tliose with confirmed cases of flu 
But swine flu has not been nearly should stay away from others. Please, as catastrophic as the tabloids -take their advice. and, in this particular set of circum­In a fast-moving crisis or potential stances, the mainstream media­crisis, the least beneficial action is to predicted. To date, there have been panic. University administrators seem less than 500 deaths in the United to have made a concerted effort to States from swine flu, far less than avoid exactly that. It is our hope that the Armageddon-like figures some the University will continue its forth­news outlets projected.While inci­right, rapid communication with the dence rates for flu have been atypi­commumty about the effects of the cally elevated, they are declining. flu. Indeed, less than one in five flu tests We also hope you'll wash yourfor the week ending Aug. 8 yielded a hands and cover your mouth and positive result. Compared to a few nose. We will. weeks ago, when two in five flu tests were positive. This column first ran in the Aug. 20 
Later this year, a swine flu vaccine edition of The Crimson White, the will come out as a part of the govern­daily newspaper serving the ment's strategy to contain the ois­University ofAlabama. ease. The American strategy of pur­The views expressed in this column chasing 600 million doses, about two are those of the author and not per person, for $8 billion is some-necessarily those of The Observer. 
In what began as a joyful and prayerful celebration to begin the school year, I was on the verge of tears with my blood boiling as Provost Thomas Burish spoke about former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher during the Opening Mass. During the celebration of a mass, a terrible woman was glorified and was somehow tied in to a speech praising Our Mother. Our provost spoke of her as a great woman, while a simple reflection of her time as Prime Minister shows otherwise. 
She opposed human rights in her own country, vying against the rights and power of trade and labor unions. She sacrificed justice and reasonable living for the working class majority of Britain for the "sake of the econo­my." Unemployment rates soared while she was in office and she sin­glehandedly crippled the entire econ­omy in Scotland. 
This speech became utterly laugh­able and more disgusting as Burish told her story and identified her turn­ing point in life when her young pen pal died when she was a "na"ive" girl. Burish himself must have been naive in believing this. This is the same Thatcher who cold-bloodedly let 10 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Irishmen, including one elected mem­ber of her own Parliament, starve to death as they protested the poor con­ditions of prison and lack of classifi­cation as political prisoners. She let a member of her own government die without intervening! 
So, despite Notre Dame being known as a school with many stu­dents of Irish background, and despite having arguably the best Irish studies program in this country, our Provost praised not just only one of the most hated figures of Irish repub­licans in recent history, but one of the most hated politicians in the world's recent history. (There are no less then 42 Facebook groups planning parties for when Thatcher dies.) Such a con­troversial figure should not be praised anywhere, especially in the sacred sanctuary of a heavily popu­lated Catholic Mass. Provost Thomas Burish surely could have spoke about many other key figures for Darners to draw inspiration from as they begin the school year! 
Eugene O'Driscoll sophomore Duncan Hall Aug. 25 


Thursday, August 27, 2009 



bass line and displays some of Pas.'iion Pit's insightJul yet accessible lyrics: "Let thL'i be our lit1lc secretI No one needs to know we're feclingii-Iigher and higher and higher/ . . . /But I feel alive and I feel it in me/Up and up I keep on climbing/Higher and higher and higher ... " They double up on the "higher and higher" part of the eho­rus, involving an elementary school choir m the mix. The kiddie choir may be considered behind the curve but certainly makes the band more endearing to its fans. 
"Moth's Wmgs," a more subdued track, has a more grandiose atmos­pheric sound aklli to U2 and includes more ar.oustic instruments as well as synth-piano chords. The album's lin.i single, "The Reeling," is a great party-ready dance number and proves to its fans that underneath Pa'ision Pit's upbeat optimistic sound often lies a darker message: "Now I pray that somebody will quickly come and kidnap me/Oh no, oh no/And everyday I lie awake and pray to God today's the day/Oh no, oh no." Much like "Uttle Secrets," the message i'i delivered with help from an elementary seh(X>l choir, contrast­ing darker themes with a sense of youthfulness and innocence. 
By MARTHA KARAM Scene Writer 

I hardly know the difference between fashion and style. Style is easy, because everyone is born with the affinity to a dis­tinct style. Fashion, on the other hand, changes too much for most college students to be able to be alert to trends and the only way most Notre Dame students would constantly be on top of "what's hot in Bryant Park" is if it were as convenient as "what's hot in llammes." 
For the summer of 2009, Vogue searched music festivals such as Lollapalooza and All Points West Festival and it became clear that the "hippier than thou" feature on style.com, Vogue online, defined Summer 2009 fashion. The site now claims that autumn 2009 can be summed up into these cutesy names for trends: 
"Biker Brigade" is straightfor­ward biker gear. Exactly what you think of when you think of how the fashion industry would pinch the style -black leather, black denim, big zippers, all fit­ted tightly. Biker jackets and even biker boots were featured in Spring/Summer 2009 collec­tions, so this trend may be dying out more quickly than it will rush in. 
"Boudoir Crossing" for lack of definitive description, is un-
Candles" for an '80's pop tune until the distinctive falsetto of lead singer Angelakos comes in, a'i the song is a softer melody than the others and combines hand clapping, synth-piano and a soft drum beat for the intro . Nonetheless, the band includes many electronic sound effects more charac­teri'itic of the year 2009, letting its audience know that yes, they are ~iill in the correct era. "Swimming in the Flood" has a much slower beat and a smoother sound, adding variety to the album. 
"Fold<; in Your Hands" brings the locus back to the dance floor and has synth riff'> that might remind one of French alternative band Phoenix, who similarly borrows much of their sound from '80's pop. "To Kingdom Come" has more of a '80's rock sound, complete with guitar, drums and horns, which are part of the wide array of im.trumental resources that Angelakos utilizes throughout the album. 
For the new album, the band mas­tered "Sleepyhead," which had been the indie band's first hit from their 2008 debut EP, "Chunk of Change." The result is a song complete with overly di'iSOnant synth riffs, hypere­motional and high-pitched lead vocms, munchklli-like backup vocals 
wearable. This trend would include frills, sheer coatings over bikini tops as blouses and more than an appropriate amount of skin showing. Considering the autumn weath­er and the modesty of students, this likely is not going to be hit­ting Notre Dame. For this trend, the takeaway may be the color scheme of pale and cream colors. 
"Forties and Fabulous" is Joan Crawford. Big hats. Big shoulders. Long pencil skirts. Fur. This will probably end up manifested as pencil skirts becoming popularized among college students and more dar­ing hats. Big, tight curls may become more mainstream, a change i"rom natural, broken curls that had been popular last season. 
"Party like it's 1983" is defined by the look that only David Bowie would consider a party in 1983. Think less side ponytail and leg warmers, more leather, patterns, futuristic buckles and sequins. See: "Walking on the Moon" video by The Dream ft. Kanye West. 
"Ruehe Hour" means that draping will become the alter­native to A-line skirts. This trend seems to have already gained popularity with many designers featuring "tulip skirts" last season. Huche also falls under the idea of 1940s fashion infiltrating and of the 
"And you said it was like fire around the brim/Burning solid burning thin the burning rim/ ... /You were one inch from the edge of this bed/1 dragged you back a sleepyhead." While the components of "Sleepyhead" may not sound ideal, the combination of these qualities manages to work in its favor: 
"Manners" may borrow much of its sound from '80's pop and indie rock, but "Oash" magazine has a dif­ferent take on the LP, saying that: "At its most adventurous, "Manners" sounds like little else -a pop record that exists in a world ofits own, carv­ing a sub-genre niche which only fits their expansive, tonally decadent material." 
Not only does Passion Pit know how to produce a well-orchestrated creative album, but they also know how to deliver energetic, well­received live perlormances and have opened for such bands as Death Cab for Cutie and Girl Talk. The electro pop band perlormed at Lollapalooza this summer with good reviews, proving that they eould excel in a fes­tival setting. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at 
akilpatr@nd.edu 
Boudoir being a symbol of fash­ion, but seems to contrast the straight, fitted cuts of the other trends. 
"Smart Investments" is apparently the androgynous answer to "forties and fabu­lous." Men's clothing on women is not all that uncommon with "boyfriend jeans" and one-size­too-large V-necks, but some designers for this trend take it a step further suggesting that women take on full-tailored suits made for men. Fall 2008 emphasized curves with tapered waists. Tapered waists will never be unfashionable, but for this season many designers placed suit jackets and unfitted blazers, lessening the appearance of a defined waist. 
Consistencies within the six trends: big shoulders, leather, glittery clothing and black. 
Just because a fashion maga­zine says something "should" be popular does not guarantee that it will be. To the average girl, these trends may sound ridiculous and far-fetched. Seeing as how fashion maga­zines expect drastic change twice a year, it is certain that if given time, these trends will look ridiculous and far-fetched even to the designers who pop­ularized them. 
Contact Martha Karam at mkaram2@nd.edu 
By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK Assistant Scene Editor 
Don't be surprised if you begin hearing people talk about Passion Pit, an mdie electronic band on the rise who has been compared to MGMT but certainly has the creativity, genius and charm to create its own distinct sound. With the high-pitched and passionate falsetto of the lead vocals, munchkin-like backup vocals, insightful yet concise, relatable and fairly accessible lyrics, exuberant upbeat '80's sound and the electronic sound effects and intriguing instru­mentation to back it up, Passion Pit's debut album "Manners" has the alternative albums of the year. 
The electronic band formed in Cambridge, Mass., m 2007 and con­sists of members Michael Angelakos on lead vocals and keyboards, Ian Hultquist on keyboards and guitar, Ayad Al Adhamy on synth and sam­ples, Jeff Apruzzese on bass and Nate Donmoyer on drums. The group mixes electronic synth pop with a disc,o sound and dissonant hooks to create a sub-genre of indie rock one might refer to as dance rock or elec­tro pop, makllig the band appealing to '80's pop, mdie rock, disco, elec­tronic and modern pop fans alike. 
"Manners" opens with the key­board-ridden "Make Light," which 

Manners 
Passion Pit 

Released by: Frenchkiss Records Best Tracks: "Little Secrets," 'The Reeling," "Sleepyhead" 
may not be the strongest track on the album but still has the lively drums, warm synth effects and keyboard riffs, and 



THE OBSERVER 
page 13





CENE
Thursday, August 27, 2009 
By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Wrirer 
It's wildly audacious, merrily insensitive, insane and, at times, so over-the-top that it's safe to say that it'll alienate half of its audience. But gosh darn it, it's downright glorious; a grand spectacle of a film that could only come from a master of cinema at his very best. 
Quentin Tarantino's much­anticipated revenge thriller veiled as a war-picture, "Inglourious Basterds" is a near­ly indescribable manifestation of cinematic storytelling. 
Using his keen eye for dia­logue, flexing his love for gore and tension-filled action and somehow managing to walk the line between quirky comical genius and dark, sensitive story­telling, Tarantino sticks to his guns and brings to life a story that is uniquely his, and could only be as successful as it is under his bold vision. 
Payback is the name of the game in this revisionist fantasy of a World War II film. And pay­back has never been so sweet. 
Set in Nazi-occupied France, "Inglourious Basterds" is the tale of a group of Jewish-American 

lnglourious Basterds 
Directed by: Quentin Tarantino Starring: Brad Pitt, Christoph Waltz, Michael Fassbender, Eli Roth, Diane Kruger, Daniel Bruhl, lil Schweiger, Melanie Laurent 

DMB pays tribute to late ban.d m m er with a new album 
soldiers led by the ruthless Lt. Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt) who are sent into France as Raine says, "For one thing, and one thing only: Killing Nazis." The lot of them are feared throughout the ranks of the S.S., for tales of their methods of execution strike fear into the heart of even Hitler him­self. 
Known only as "The Basterds," we find them rampaging through France, bashing skulls in with baseball bats, cutting off dead Nazi scalps for sport, shooting first and never stopping to ask any questions and, in rare instances of compassion, carving swastikas onto the foreheads of their prisoners. Their actions, so barbarically outlandish and cringe-inducing, would be so wrong, if only, as the audience sits in awe and watches with wide eyes, it didn't feel so right. 
Tarantino ingeniously weaves the storyline of the Basterds with that of Shoshanna Dreyfus, a young Jewish woman who wit­nesses the murder of her entire family at the hands of Nazi Colonel Hans Landa (Christopher Waltz, who rightfully won best actor at the Cannes Film Festival for this role), who stumbles upon a chance at ultimate revenge on 
the Nazis. The owner of a local cinema, she is presented with the opportunity to host a pre­miere of a new film from Germany's premier director, to which many high-rankiQg members of Nazi command will attend. And thus she plots her revenge just as the Basterds go about theirs. 
The film is awash in refer­ences to old cinema -every­thing from the carefully crafted soundtrack, to the set locations, to elements of the dialogue ­all pay homage to old cinema, which is a new trick in Tarantino's bag. There's no revolutionary status to this film like there was with "Pulp Fiction." Instead, Tarantino has made a film that is as uniquely "Tarantino" as could be, while somehow being as weirdly non­trademark Tarantino as he's ever been. 
Watch closely and you'11 know it's his brainchild, but watch clos­er and you'll notice his flare for dialogue has changed, and if there was any Hollywood in him at all, it's been put aside for the duration of the film's runtime. There are no Royale with cheese-like conversations or round-table discussions like in the opening scene in "Reservoir Dogs," and there are no rules here, or Hollywood boundaries. It has a style all to its own, a nearly unexplainable style that can best be described as a strangely refreshing breath of fresh air. 
Some will be annoyed, and others enthralled by just how whacked out and immoral Tarantino's Nazi-killing machine of a film is. Some will find it over­long and choppy at times, so much so that the quirks, as plen­tiful as they are, will lose their charm. But for those who have enough patience and resilience to just take this as seriously as it's meant to be taken, this a rare joy ride of a film that's so enjoyable, you just can't help but grin from ear-to-ear once the credits roll. 
It isn't "Pulp Fiction" and it's no masterpiece per se, but it may just be the most swaggeringly fun, weirdly delightful film to grace the silver screen in years. They're basterds, the whole bunch of them, and it's so glori­ous, we just can't help but love 'em. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
By JOEY KUHN Assisranr Scene Ediror 
Have you ever been working on a project when life suddenly blasted you with the unexpected, and after that crucial moment the project took on a whole different meaning? That's what happened to the Dave Matihews Band during the recording of their latest album, "Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King." They were mining for coal, but an accidental and tragic dynamite explosion blew open a cave of diamonds. 
The band's seventh studio album was released on June 2. It debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 music chart, the fifth consecutive DMB album to do so. Among hardcore DMB fans, though, the fuvorites have usually been ''Under the Table and Dreaming," "G-ash," and "Before These Crowded Streets." 
These, the band's first three albums, have 

Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King 
Dave Matthews Band 

Released by: RCA Best Tracks: 'Why I Am," "Dive In," "Seven," "Spaceman," "Funny the Way It Is" 

acquired almost canonical status; they are sometimes referred to as 'The Big Three." Holding them up as the standard, everything that Dave Matthews Band has released since has seemed to full a little short -LIDtil now. Critics, casual listeners and diehard fans alike have received "Big Whiskey" as a new masterpiece. 
A lot happened in the four years intervening between the band's last studio album, "Stand Up," and "Big Whiskey." On March 6, 2008, it was revealed that the band was working on a new album with producer Rob Cavallo, whose credits include Green Day and Alanis Morissette. Then Butch Taylor, the band's keyboardist since 2001, announced that he would leave the group on May 27. But the biggest blow came on Aug. 19, when saxophonist LeRoi Moore died from complications to iqjrnies sustained in an A1V accident 

Instead of scrapping the album they had just started working on, Dave Matthews and crew instead pulled together and created possibly their most cohesive and emotionally intense album yet "Big Whiskey" is a swampy mix ofjoy, grie( love, pain, drLIDkenness, God and deafu. First and fore­most, it is a tribute to Moore (GrooGrux was Moore's nickname). Many of the lyrics reflect on mortality; some even explicitly point to Moore's death, as in "Why I Am": "And when my story ends it's gonna end with bimiHeaven or hell, fm going down with the GrooGrux King." Not every song relates to Moore's passing away, but even straightforward love ballads here are tinged with an air of impending futality. 
Don't get the wrong idea, though; the album never despairs or admits defeat to deafu. Instead, Matthews preaches acceptance of mortality and carnal reality. At the same time, without condon­ing or condemning, he questions why things on 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
earth must be so messy and unfair, as in the album's first single, "Funny the Way It Is": "Funny the way it is, ifyou think about i110ne kid walks 10 miles to school another's dropping out" 
"Big Whiskey" is also pervaded by religious lan­guage and imagery that is more explicit than in any other of DMB's previous albums; in 'TIIlle Bomb," Matthews wails "Baby when I get home1 want to believe in Jesus" in some of his most impassioned singing on the album 
Throughout "Big Whiskey," the lyrics evoke the tension between a desire to transcend and the ten­dency to be dragged back to the earth by our own humanity. Elements of fimk, African beats, New Orleans jazz and rock give the music a raucous, earthy sound at times, balanced out by the airs of strings and fluttering saxophone on lighter tracks. 
The album really rLIDS the gamut of emotions depicted in the chaotic scene of a New Orleans parade on its cover. But wherever Dave Matthews Band take us on "Big Whiskey," they take us with the surer and sometimes heavier step of a band that has perfected its sound and reached full maturity, though not without a cost We can only wonder where they will go from here. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 
,­
: page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, August 27, 2009 
==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~=== 
MLB 

Huff's six innings lead Indians over Royals 
Hunter extends hitting streak to 12 games with two-run homer as Saunders gets the victory over Detroit 
ssociated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

,noozing on the way to the ballpark, David Huff was jolt­ed by a crash. A car had lost control in the rain and slid into the side of the team bus, a startling wake-up call for the Cleveland rookie. 
Once Huff got to the field: crickets, just as he likes it. 
The left-hander threw six solid innings Wednesday, bouncing back from a bad outing and helping the Indians to a 4-2 victory over the Kansas City Royals. 
All that buzz from Zack Greinke's 15-strikeout per­formance the night before? Gone thanks to whisper-quiet stadium and a pitcher who prefers groundouts to pun­chouts. 
''I'm not going to go out and strike out a bunch of guys," said Huff, 6-3 on the road. ''I'm going to be the guy who tries to get ground-ball outs, a bunch of double plays. For me, strikeouts are boring. I like a quick ballgame. I like guys to ground out in one pitch, two pitches." 
Grady Sizemore reached base four times after a day off, scoring in the first, third and fifth innings to put Cleveland up 3-2. Jamey Carroll, Cleveland's No. 2 hit­ter, had two of his three hits on hit-and-runs to move Sizemore around the bases and Matt LaPorta hit his sec­ond homer of the season off Luke Hochevar (6-7) to give Huff all the support he need­ed. 
Kerry Wood worked a per­fect ninth for his 16th save in 21 chances, giving Cleveland its eighth win in 12 series since the All-Star break. 
The Royals couldn't follow up the excitement from Greinke's performance the night before. 
Kansas City scored two runs in the first three innings off Huff (8-7), but didn't get a runner past second base after that. Billy Butler had three hits for the Royals, who have baseball's worst home record (26-41) after losing 
five  of  six  at  Kauffman  
Stadium.  
"It's  a  frustrating year,"  

Royals manager Trey Hillman said. "Losses are tough to let go of." 
Most of the game was non­descript, as might be expect­ed of two teams with little left to play and a crowd that hardly seemed there. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
The Royals got a run in the first inning on Mark Teahen's sacrifice fly, another in the third on a bloop double by Miguel Olivo. 
Asdrubal Cabrera had a run-scoring fielder's choice in the first for Cleveland. Shin-Soo Choo added some excitement with a run-scor­ing double to left-center in the third, a play that ended with Carroll getting thrown out by three steps at the plate. Sizemore scampered home on a wild pitch in the fifth and LaPorta homered in the sixth, drawing cheers from a handful of fans and not much else. 
In between? Lots of lazy popups, routine grounders, a few strikeouts, the occasional grounder through the infield. Boring? Maybe a little, espe­cially after what Greinke did the night before, but it worked. 
"It was different, but it's the big leagues and you have handle any atmosphere you're in," Wedge said. "It doesn't matter. You still have to raise your level of play." 
Huff started off his day with a jolt, one of nine Indians players on the bus when it was hit by a car on the way to the stadium. No one was hurt. 
On the field, the lefty didn't let the Royals get the barrel on too many pitches, induc­ing plenty of soft grounders and sleepy fly balls. Huff allowed two runs and seven hits after lasting just 3 1-3 innings his last start. 
"It always helps when guys are swinging at pitches," Huff said. "It's one of those things where you throw something off-speed, they think it's fast­ball and hopefully they just roll it over." 
Hochevar had a second decent outing on the heels of four shaky ones, working through traffic to allow three earned runs and seven hits in 6 1-3 innings. The right-han­der lost his chance to end a six-game winless streak with the wild pitch-Kansas City's majors-leading 73rd-that allowed Sizemore to score and the slider LaPorta hit out to put the Indians up 4-2. 
"That was a terrible pitch to LaPorta," Hochevar said after throwing a career-high 116 pitches. 

Angels 4, Tigers 2 
Joe Saunders and the Los Angeles Angels both got their seasons back on track in the 


same afternoon. 

And as usual around the 
Angels, Torii Hunter had 
something to do with every 
positive development. 

Hunter hit an early two-run 
homer, Saunders pitched five 
effective innings in his return 
to the rotation and Los 
Angeles snapped its three-
game skid with a victory over 
the Detroit Tigers on 
Wednesday. 

Hunter, who extended his hitting streak to 12 games, claims he threw a tantrum over his AL West-leading team's slump of five losses in six games. The Angels' club­house leader has a hit in every game since returning from a month on the disabled list last week, and he reached ,base three times as Los Angeles managed to remain the only major league team without four straight losses 
this season. 

"I was just hoping the guys 
were upset, because I was 
upset," Hunter said. "We 
have a pretty good team. 
Traveling back from the East 
Coast (last Sunday), we were just trying to find our way, but we were able to capital­ize on their mistakes." 
Hunter's first-inning shot off Edwin Jackson (10-6), his 18th of the season, provided a valuable cushion for Saunders, who looked good after a 2 1/2 -week regimen of massage, electrotherapy and a cortisone shot to get some life back in his sore shoulder. 
"I think that early home run helped Joe relax," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "That's certainly the most consistent velocity I've seen all year from Joe." 
Saunders (10-7) was cool in the 97-degree Orange County heat while making his first start since Aug. 7, after which he went on the dis­abled list. 
The left-hander had strug­gled for over a month before his DL stint, but the Angels' opening day starter allowed four hits while striking out six. 
"It was nice to be able to throw the ball without any hint of tightness," Saunders 
said. "My arm was free, and I just let it go.... I look back on (the struggles) and say I should have done this a little earlier, but it's my fault. Hopefully if it ever happens again, I'll step up and say something." 
Kendry Morales and Chone Figgins added run-scoring hits for the Angels, who avoided being swept at home for the first time since June 2007 and prevented Detroit's first road sweep of the Angels since August 1993. Manufacturing runs with their usual mix of hits, walks and sharp baserunning, Los Angeles capitalized on Jackson's high leg kick to steal five bases, matching a season high. 
"They got a couple of runs early with the home run, then they got two bleeders to get another run on me," said Jackson, who yielded eight hits and four walks in 6 1-3 innings during his first loss in seven starts since July 19. "That's what a good team does. They find a way to get runs." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2009 Fall Season -The Stanley Clark School, a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $37 per game to licensed refer­ees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at 574­291-4200. 
FoR SALE 
Maintenance-Free Villa, minutes from the Golden Dome! Like new, one owner, very convenient to shop­ping, dining & the airport! Well con­structed featuring cathedral ceilings and thoughtful floor plan. If you are looking for a place to call home for a weekend, a month or forever near the shadow of the Golden Dome, please give me a call, I would love to show you this great villa! REMAX100-SUSAN ULLERY, Broker Associate (574)235-3446. 


FoR RENT 
Unfurnished House for rent. 2 bedrm fenced yard 2 car garage. 1 mile to campus. 219-575-0550 leave a message. 
Garage for storage plus room for rent for football weekends. 1/2 mi. to NO. Call Matt at 574-302-7224. 
Charming,clean 3 brm, 3 full bath house available for football week­ends. $700 for two nights. Call Liane 574-287-2822 or 574-309­4158. 

Home for rent football weekends. Walk to stadium, sleeps 6-10. williamckelly@gmail.com 


TICKETS 
Businessman buying season GA tickets. 574-277-1659. 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1· 7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NO s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
Are you looking for a business opportunity with an awesome com­pensation plan and multiple streams of income. Then I want to talk to you! Call Angel Start @ 289­4043 or email angelsings4him7@aol.com 
The Observer >The New York Times 
"Charlie Chaplin once entered a Charlie Chaplin look-alike contest in Monte Carlo and came in third; that's a story." 






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, August 27, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL 

NCAA Men's Soccer Division I Preseason Top 25 
team  previous  
1  St. John's (N.Y.)  3  
2  Creighton  5  
3  Wake Forest  2  
4  North Carolina  4  
5  Maryland  1  
6  Akron  9  
7  Indiana  6  
8  California  10  
9  Northwestern  8  
10  Dartmouth  27  
11  UIC  12  
12  Tulsa  13  
13  South Florida  7  
14  UC Irvine  11  
15  Loyola (Md.)  18  
16  NOTRE DAME  20  
17  UCLA  28  
18  Dayton  19  
19  UC Santa Barbara  21  
20  Connecticut  16  
21  Drake  23  
22  Virginia  NR  
23  Boston U.  25  
24  St. Louis  22  
25  Michigan State  14  

NGCA Women's Golf Division I 

Coaches Poll 
team 

1 Arizona State 
2 UCLA 
3 Southern California 
4 Oklahoma State 
5 Auburn 
6 Virginia 
7 Wake Forest 
8 Alabama 
9 Purdue 
10 LSU 
11 North Carolina 
12 Duke 
13 Pepperdine 
14 Georgia 
15 Arkansas 
16 Denver 
17 Louisville 
18 San Jose State 
19 Kent State 
20 Arizona 
points 
448 
431 412 395 369 342 339 324 319 291 257 254 238 193 190 176 171 140 103 98 


Golf World/NIKE Menfs Division I Coaches Poll 
team 


1 TexasA&JW 
2 Arkansas 
3 Georgia 
4 Michigan 
5 Arizona State 
6 Southern California 7 Washington 8 Oklahoma Slate 9 TCU 
10 Georgia Tech 
11 UCF 
12 Tennessee 
13 San Diego 
14 Duke 15 Alabama 



around the dial 
NFL 
Miami at Tampa Bay 8 p.m., FOX 
New England at Washington 8 p.m., CBS 


Associated Press 
RENTON, Wash. Edgerrin James signed with Seattle in an effort to revitalize his career while the Seahawks are just des­perate to improve a run­ning game that ranked near the bottom in the NFL last season. 
James, who agreed to a free-agent contract Tuesday, said Wednesday that he's not in Seattle to compete with starter Julius Jones but to work with him. 
"It's a cool situation to come in and play with Julius," James said Wednesday after his first practice with the 
IN BRIEF 

Louisville quarterback
Burke named starter 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Louisville coach Steve Kragthorpe has named junior Justin Burke the starter for the season opener against Indiana State on Sept. 5. 
Kragthorpe said Burke's consis­tency during training camp earned him the nod over Adam Froman and Zack Stoudt. 
Burke sat out last season after transferring from North Carolina State. Kragthorpe said Burke's intelligence and ability to grasp the offense quickly helped him win the job. 
Froman, a junior college transfer, had been Burke's strongest compe­tition but has been slowed by a shoulder injury over the last week that forced him to miss last Saturday's scrimmage. 
The start will be Burke's first since his senior year at Lexington Catholic, where he threw for a then-record 62 touchdowns. 

Seahawks. "In this day and age in the NFL, everything is pretty much two backs. I'm not here to compete with Julius, I'm here to complement him, to come in here and work together. I just want to win." 
James is the league's active leading rusher and is 11th on the NFL rushing list with 12,121 yards. But he was benched for the first time in his career last season by Arizona. 
His resurgence during the playoffs gave Arizona the running game it had lacked and sparked the team to James' only Super Bowl. The Cardinals released him earlier this 
year. 
The Seahawks, who released running back T.J. Duckett to pave the way for James, signed him to sup­port Jones. 
''I'm just going to take it day by day and let the coaches decide how they feel I'm coming along," James said. ''I'm not going to try to force nothing. I'm just going to try to do everything I can do." 
Coach Jim Mora said that when considering James he watched videos of his last four games last season, including the Super Bowl, in which he had 33 yards in a 27-23 loss to Pittsburgh. 
"That's what we based it on, that and his history of being a tough runner that's durable. He doesn't take losses," Mora said. "When we watched him on film, he still looked like that guy." 

James also is 31, an age at which running backs are historically on the decline. 
"You have to consider his age. It's irresponsible if you don't," Mora said. "We talked about it at length. The fact is he's going to be a complementary back to Julius. Julius is going to be our workhorse, our lead dog. To be able to get a guy of Edgerrin's caliber, his personality and pedigree to come in here and do what he's going to do is bonus for us." 
Pacers' Dunleavy to return 

sooner than expected 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers guard Mike Dunleavy says he could return from a severe knee injury earlier than expected. 
Dunleavy says he can do every­thing except have physical contact, and he expects that to change with­in weeks. Pacers coach Jim O'Brien has said he didn't expect Dunleavy to be available until at least January 2010. 
He had surgery in March to remove a bone spur from the patel­la tendon on his right knee. 
But Dunleavy is back on the court running. Though there is work ahead, he says he's "at a good place right now." 
"If it goes pretty well, yeah, I could be back pretty early in the season," Dunleavy said. "There's still a lot of time for that to hap­pen." 
His teammates say they like what they've seen. 
Vols' Bryce Brown not 

punished by NCAA 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Tennessee freshman tailback Bryce Brown will not be punished as the result of an NCAA investigation into his eligibility, coach Lane Kiffm said Wednesday. 
"I think that that's a heck of a deal by the NCAA to get it done right and get it done with a sense of urgency, so we're very grateful for that," Kiffm said. 
The NCAA was reviewing whether money was improperly raised for Brown to visit colleges and collegiate football camps during his sophomore year of high school. Tennessee was not recruiting him at the time. 
Kilfm said the NCAA was consider­ing a four-game suspension and a hefty fine as punishment initially, but continued to review the case until deciding to drop it. 
The coach said he spoke with NCAA officials and Brown wrote a letter to the organization arguing his case. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 27, 2009 
NFL 
Sanchez wins QB job over Clemens 
Have you thought about teaching Religion 

and becoming a Catechist? 
*Do you enjoy working with
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J.-The future is now for the new face of the New York Jets, Mark Sanchez. 
Sanchez was selected as the team's starting quarterback by coach Rex Ryan on Wednesday, making him the first rookie slated to open a season under center for the Jets. 
"This comes with a lot of responsibility," a beaming Sanchez said. "As happy as I am, I know that this is just the beginning 
for-8 for 43 yards and had an interception-his first pass of the game-returned for a touchdown. 
"I think it's not about just one game and I think that defense, I'm not making 
. excuses here, but they're a great group," Sanchez said. "They make veteran quarter­backs look silly out there. It wasn't my best game, that's for sure. Do I need to improve? Absolutely." Meanwhile, Clemens was 5­for-1 0 for 60 yards and a 


children or adolescents? 
*Can you give one-two hours of your time each week? 
*Do you welcome the challenge to articulate and share your faith1 
*Would you like to be a valuable as­set to a local parish? 
and I'm just "I know this is just the excited, really 
beginning and I'm just

excited, to get 
to play with excited, really excited, 
such great to get to play with such players." 
great players. " 

The fifth overall draft pick out of Mark Sanchez 
Southern Jets quarterback 
California beat out Kellen Clemens for the job and will make his reg­ular-season debut at Houston on Sept. 13. 
"This is something I've always wanted to do and dreams are coming true now," Sanchez said. "It's a special opportunity." 
Ryan, who made the announcement after practice, said early in training camp he'd like to make a decision on a starter by the Jets' third preseason game. 
"I think Mark gives us the best opportunity to win," Ryan said, "and I think that's what I owe this franchise." 
The Jets' next preseason game is Saturday night against the Giants. 
Sanchez replaces Brett Favre as the starter after gen­erally showing poise and solid decision-making skills during training camp. 
Ryan met with Sanchez and Clemens on Wednesday morn­ing and told them of his choice. 
terbacked the then-Titans. Joe Namath didn't start until the third game of his rookie season in 1965. Matt Hobinson was the last rookie quarterback to start a game for the Jets in 1977. 
"I feel very comfortable and confident in my decision," Ryan said. 
Sanchez won't have an easy welcome to the NFL, though, facing a tough Texans defense in the opener, followed by home games against New England and Tennessee. 
Sanchez struggled early in his start at Baltimore in a pre­season game Monday night, but threw a touchdown pass to Leon Washington to cap his final series. Sanchez was 3­score, but also had an inter­ception returned for a TO. Entering his fourth sea­son with the Jets after being a sec­ond-round pick in 2006, also had a solid but unspectacular camp, but threw 12 
Important lnfo~mation Meeting: Wednesday, September 2 
5:30~6:30p.m. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


interceptions compared to the rookie's five during practices. 
''I'm disappointed overall because I think I left some plays out there that I should've made, both in prac­tice and in the games," Clemens said. "It's Mark's job and I'll support him moving forward." 
It was the third quarter­back competition for Clemens, once considered the team's future QB, but he lost out to Chad Pennington in 2006, Favre last summer and now Sanchez. 
"Each competition is differ­ent," Clemens said, "but it never feels good to be the guy who'll be holding the clip­board on Sept. 13." 
Clemens, a free agent after this season, said he believes he can start in the NFL­whether it's in New York or elsewhere. 
"It's a bump in the road," he said. "It's not the end of the road." 

''I'm glad the decision was The Jets traded up in the made earlier rather than draft to acquire the fifth over­later," said Clemens, who all pick from Cleveland and added he former coach thought the Eric Mangini. competition was Just a few 
fair. "It's Mark's job and weeks later, the 
The last time a I'll suporrt him Jets signed rookie started a Sanchez to a
moving forward." 

season for the five-year deal franchise was in that could be 1960, when Dick Kellen Clemens worth up to Jamieson qu ar­Jets quarterback $60 million, 
including $28 
million gum·an­
teed. 
Sanchez was already being touted as the new face of the franchise and it appeared it was his job to lose after that. Clemens didn't help his cause by being just as good as the rookie, but not elearly better than him. 
It was expected if the com­petition was close, the organi­zation would move forward with Sanchez. 
Ryan made it clear after the team drafted Sanchez that he wouldn't be afraid to start a rookie quarterback, particu­larly after watching Joe Fiacco lead the Ravens to the AFC championship last sea­son. 

Thursday, August 27, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 


Ricky Rubio retnains vvith DKV Joventut 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS Minnesota Timberwolves president David Kahn disput­ed a Spanish report Wednesday that point guard Ricky Rubio will be staying in Spain for another two years. 
The Spanish Web site Marca.com reported earlier in the day that Regal Barcelona had reached a buyout agreement with Rubio's team, DKV Joventut for $5.3 million. The report said Rubio would sign a six­year deal with the team that included an affordable buy­out in 2011 that would allow him to come to the NBA. 
But Kahn issued a state­ment saying no deal has been reached. 
"Based on the information I have attained today, no team in any league has reached a deal with DKV Joventut con­cerning Ricky's buyout, which must be accomplished before Ricky is released from his contract with DKV Joventut," the statement read. 
That means that Rubio's saga will continue as the Wolves and new coach Kurt Rambis get closer to training camp. 
The Timberwolves selected Rubio with the fifth pick in the June draft, knowing full well of the sticky buyout situ­ation with DKV Joventut. Rubio is under contract for another two years with Joventut, a deal that includes an $8 million buyout. 
The Timberwolves can only contribute $500,000 toward the buyout under the NBA's collective bargaining agree­ment, meaning Rubio would be responsible for paying the balance himself. Rubio is understandably hesitant to start his NBA career some $7.5 million in the hole. 
Kahn has traveled to Spain in hopes of negotiating the number down, but so far has been unsuccessful in those efforts. 
He has said on more than one occasion that the rebuild­ing Wolves will be fine wait­ing a year, or two in the worse-case scenario, for Rubio to come to the United States to play. 
More time in Europe would allow the 18-year-old to develop against some of the best players overseas in an environment many scouts say is superior competitively to that of the NCAA. 
Coming to the NBA this sea­son would allow the baby­faced Rubio to take advan­tage of increased endorse­ment opportunities in the United States while helping the revenue-starved Timberwolves sell tickets to a fan base that hasn't seen a team make the playoffs since 2004. 
If Rubio does not come to Minnesota this season, the Timberwolves are covered. They took Jonny Flynn, another point guard, with the sixth overall pick right behind Rubio. 

NFL 
Cutler prepares for Denver return 
Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -Now that they've been separated for five months, Bears quarter­back Jay Cutler has high praise for Broncos rookie coach Josh McDaniels, whom he'll see in a preseason game at lnvesco Field this weekend. 
Cutler says in the brief time he spent with McDaniels he could tell Bill Belichick's latest disciple was an offensive mas­termind. Cutler said the Broncos are in good hands with McDaniels and quarter­back Kyle Orton. 
"He's going to be a good coach." Cutler told Denver reporters in a conference call Wednesday. "I think their offense is going to be fine. I think Kyle's going to be fine. (McDaniels) is an offensive mind. 
"Just the brief amount of time I was able to spend with him. he's impressive. He knows a lot about offenses, he knows a lot about getting guys open and scoring points, as everyone's seen when he was in New England, so I think they're going to be fine." 
The Broncos traded Cutler to Chicago for Orton and three draft picks in April after Cutler's rift with McDaniels became irreparable. 
The genesis of their dis­agreement came when Cutler learned McDaniels had talked to the Patriots about acquiring quarterback Matt Cassel in a three-way trade that would have sent him to Tampa Bay. Cassel was dealt to Kansas City instead, but in subsequent con­versations, Cutler couldn't get assurances from the 33-year­old rookie coach that his name wouldn't come up again in trade talks. So he asked out. 
Cutler said he doesn't want to rehash the details of their ugly divorce, but feels both sides are happier now that they're apart. 
"I think both sides would change certain things and go about it a different way, but I think both sides are happy now and we're moving on." Cutler said of the way his stint in Denver came to an acrimo­nious end. 
Cutler said he's not exactly hyped for his return to the Mile High City, where he's still trying to sell his multimillion dollar home. 
"It's a preseason game, we've got to keep that in per­spective," Cutler said, suggest­ing the Bears' real focus is on their opener against Green Bay next month. 
MLB 



Players' union gains ruling 
Court rules against federal prosecutors; list and samples to be destroyed 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A fed­eral appeals court ruled Wednesday that agents had no right to seize baseball's anonymous drug-testing results from 2003, an infa­mous list that tarnished America's pastime and some of its biggest stars. 
The decision by the 9th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals is a victory for the players' union, which has argued for years to have the results of the 104 players who alleged­ly tested positive for per­formance-enhancing drugs in 2003 returned. 
"This was an obvious case of deliberate overreaching by the government in an effort to seize data as to which it lacked probable cause," Chief Judge Alex Kozinski wrote in the 9-2 decision. 
Barring a last-ditch appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, the test results and samples will be destroyed, and prose­cutors cannot use the infor­mation. Union lawyers said the government returned the evidence shortly after earlier trial court rulings. 
The panel said federal agents trampled on players' protections against unrea­sonable searches and seizures, though the ruling came too late to spare play­ers linked to the list, includ­ing Yankees star Alex Rodriguez and Red Sox slug­ger David Ortiz, who admit­ted they were on it. 
Ortiz said he didn't care about the ruling, adding it won't help him almost a month after his name was leaked. 
Atlanta star Chipper Jones agreed. 
"It doesn't matter now," Jones said. "The names are already out there in the gen­eral public. We've already got a number out there. It's not going to be over until it's all out there." 
Kozinski said the players' union had good reason to want to keep the list under wraps. 
"The risk to the players associated with disclosure, and with that the ability of the Players Association to 


a significant test of the gov­ernment's search and seizure powers in the digital age, and issued guidelines for investigators to follow in future raids that included submitting computers to independent computer experts for sorting of data. 
The ruling vastly curtailed the federal government's performance-enhancing drug investigation. Federal prose­cutors had maintained they wanted the names to investi­gate the players' drug sources, which could have kept alive a massive investi­gation started by a Dumpster-diving agent. 
Instead, Wednesday's rul­ing means investigators are barred from accessing any names except for the 10 players listed on a 2004 search warrant. The names of those 10 have never been released, but the government said they had ties to the Bay Area Laboratory Co­Operative. 
BALCO founder Victor Conte has long been critical of the actions of the govern­ment, especial­ly then-lead 
obtain volun­tary compli­ance with drug testing from its  "We've already got a number out there. It's not going to be over  investigator Jeff Novitzky. "I have said that Novitzky  
members  in  until it's all out  has been using  
the future, is very high," the  there.,,  illegal tactics and not follow­ 
judge  wrote.  ing  the  law  
"Indeed,  some  Chipper Jones  since the day  
players appear  Braves third baseman  of the BALCO  

to have already suffered this very harm as a result of the government's seizure." 
The government seized the samples and records in April 2004 from baseball's drug­testing companies as part of the BALCO investigation into Barry Bonds and others. The list of 104 players said to have tested positive, attached to a grand jury subpoena, has been part of a five-year legal fight, with the players' union trying to force the gov­ernment to return what fed­eral agents took during raids. 
Kozinski said the case was 
raid," Conte 

said. "He seems to just make up his own rules as he goes along." 
U.S. attorney spokesman Jack Gillund in San Francisco said the government was reviewing its options, which could include an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
Players' association lawyer Elliot Peters said the union was happy with the ruling but still angry that names of several players allegedly on the list have been leaked to journalists. 
"Anyone who leaks infor­mation purporting to contain those 2003 test results is 
committing a crime," union leader Don Fehr and union general counsel Michael Weiner said in a statement. "We are very gratified by this decision, and hope that this will finally bring this long lit­igation to a close." 
Peters declined to say whether he asked a federal judge to look into leaks from the list. 
"If the government hadn't unconstitutionally seized this in the first place, there wouldn't have been any leaks," Peters said. 
The list's genesis goes back six years, to the time when an agreement between MLB and the players' association on drug policing was just being implemented. 
In 2003, baseball conduct­ed survey drug testing-with­out penalties. Each player provided a urine sample and an additional follow-up five­to-seven days later. Up to 240 players could be selected randomly for additional test­ing. 
Two companies were involved, Comprehensive Drug Testing Inc. of Long Beach, Calif., and Quest Diagnostics Inc. of Teterboro, N.J., and samples were marked with codes to keep track as they were processed. 
The union has said it had begun steps to destroy the results, but learned a federal grand jury subpoena had been issued for some of the test results and records as part of the BALCO investiga­tion. That halted the destruc­tion. 
After months of wrangling, federal agents got a search warrant and seized samples from a Quest lab in Las Vegas and records from COT in Long Beach on April 8. 2004-records the appeals court now says never should have taken. 
"There's nothing we can do about it," said Atlanta Braves first baseman Adam LaRoche. "They're out there. It's over with. I don't know if they can try to make it right or not." 
page 18 Thursday, August 27, 2009 
cy? 

•--•• -.• •-,., •u lfw\ l' I J(t~ (I' ltmllt i '"' :\{~li ~-I)*·u 1n 
*_"'K' -PALIJ~'I'''U''r
-, • -··--\Qijll_ #'4'l!i ---·

iW¥; 

-u~, c· ,t•, .s.*~-~~-,,~~• A\ll$;1~~'~ 4~:•a~7Hi l~ ~·\i•l luti~.t ~~tt~lr•:~ .1.\II•J\* I~·t~tH...} ,,t·*t·ill ~f•~~~* (~;unJit~\ '~~~~;~t•n. I If; If ti 
~ --1M ( ,-• -_. w1--. _%1 1 --_ ·_i
J~ ~-• 1.-·~--~··**·-~ ~r. --_ • ji~n:~; ~~~-*' •• -_ • t -~ :h :t · -,.. ~ , • *· ¥ 1)~-+t~tt\~* Sk.":~l•'l*iU%.:M:I~itt (t~~lliu~·ln~:f( ('*~-~! t•ll-I, 4ft 1 
£_·: 
.&_ t/ J_·--.:--->t_
fi""ii~. [/# 4 t 

r---------------­
Thursday, August 27, 2009 The Observer +SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Pettitte's strong start carries Yankees to victory 
Ninth-inning home run carries Red Sox past Chicago; Phillies win in extra innings thanks to Howard's bomb 
49 2-3 innings without allowing Sox. Hall of Farner Jimmie Foxx 

Associated Press 
a homer. He promptly fanned had eight. 

NEW YORK -Jorge Posada Elvis Andrus, the veteran left­All-Star Tim Wakefield hit a three-run homer, Andy bander's seventh strikeout of pitched seven strong innings in Pettitte finally gave New York a the game, and the Yankees his return from the disabled quality pitching performance, tacked on five runs in the bot­list, but the 43-year-old knuck­and the free-swinging Yankees tom half of the inning to put it leballer was deprived of a win romped to a 9-2 victory over the out of reach. when Jayson Nix homered off Texas Rangers on Wednesday Derek Holland (7-8) allowed reliever Ramon Ramirez to night. six runs on seven hits in six­make it 2-2 in the eighth. 
Derek Jeter and Mark plus innings in another poor Daniel Bard (1-1) earned his Teixeira each drove in a pair of outing against New York. The first career victory with 1 1-3 runs, and Jerry Hairston Jr. 22-year-old left-bander had innings of scoreless relief. added a solo homer for the been 3-0 with a 1.29 ERA in his Tony Pena (1-2) struck out Yankees. last three starts, but has Kevin Youkilis to start the ninth, 
The highest-scoring team in allowed 12 runs in two starts then gave up Ortiz's homer. baseball has put up at least against the Yankees this season. Ortiz, who hit a solo homer in eight runs in four of its last five A-Rod nearly cost New York the second, stopped to clap his games. in the first, when his error on a hands once and then circled the 
Helped by a slew of double routine grounder helped the bases before he was greeted at plays, Pettitte (11-6) allowed load the bases with one out. home plate by his teammates. two runs and f'ive hits over Pettitte bailed him out by get­Alex Gonzalez also homered seven innings to win his third ting a double-play, and for Boston, which beat Chicago straight decision. The crisp per­Hodriguez reciprocated the for the third straight time and formance came after New York favor by leading off the second dropped the White Sox (63-64) pitchers had surrendered 39 with a single. Hideki Matsui fol­below .500 for the first time runs on 52 hits over the last lowed with a base hit, and since June 28. four games, including a 10-9 Posada drove a 1-1 pitch over The Hed Sox opened the game loss to the Rangers in the series the center-field wall for his 17th with a tribute to U.S. Sen. opener. homer of the season. Edward Kennedy, honoring a 
It was Pettitte's 189th win in The Yankees added on a run lifelong fan whose family was as pinstripes, tying Lefty Gomez in the fourth on Hairston's much a part of Boston history for third on the franchise list homer, which could have done as the team itself. and trailing only Hall of Famers more damage had Hobinson Kennedy, who died Tuesday Whitey Ford (236) and Red Cano not been picked off first night after a long bout with Hulling (231). moments earlier. It was brain cancer, threw out the cer­
About the only thing that Hairston's lOth of the season emonial first pitch on opening seemed to slow down the and second since joining the day 97 years after his grandfa­Yankees were some fluke Yankees in a trade with the ther, Boston mayor John bounces. Cincinnati Reds. "Honey Fitz" Fitzgerald chris­
Alex Rodriguez came up hob­Already trailing 9-2, the tened the ballpark that is now blew yet another lead and the Hamels was 0-3 with a 6.75 bling after fouling a ball off his Rangers loaded the bases off the oldest in the major leagues. division-leading Phillies ERA in August, but repeatedly leg in the seventh, but remained Brian Bruney) in the eighth, but A lone Air Force bugler bounced back from one of their shut down Pirates threats in his in the game at third base for Rodriguez started his third 5-4-played "Taps" as both teams toughest losses all season to best start since shutting out the another half inning. Then in the 3 double-play of the game and lined up on the baselines -a beat the Pittsburgh Pirates on Dodgers on live hits on June 4. eighth, Posada took a foul ball the fourth turned by the tradition usually reserved for Wednesday night. Hamels struck out Maholm to off his gloved hand behind the Yankees to wipe out another playoff games or opening day. The Phillies, winning their leave the bases full in the plate and immediately began would-be rally. The somber beginning and 13th in 16 games, led 1-0 going fourth, then retired Delwyn shaking it. He was seen by a the raucous ending provided into the ninth but the Pirates Young and Garrett Jones in suc­trainer after wandering out Red Sox 3, White Sox 2 emotional bookends to a game tied it on their first pinch-hit cession to end the seventh after near the mound, and was even­David Ortiz curled his second that marked the return of homer of the season, by pinch-hitter Honny Cedeno dou­tually replaced by Jose Molina. homer of the game around the Wakefield, who was selected for Brandon Moss against Hyan bled and McCutchen walked. 
David Murphy homered and Pesky Pole to break a ninth­his first All-Star game but has­Madson. The Pirates, losing for only drove in both runs for the inning tie and give the Boston n't pitched since the midseason Philadelphia didn't use closer the second time in eight games, Hangers, who are desperately Red Sox a victory over the break because of a lower back Brad Lidge after he surren­left nine on base and were 0 for trying to keep pace in the play­Chicago White Sox on injury. dered rookie Andrew 7 with runners in scoring posi­ofT chase. Wednesday night. Wakefield was activated from McCutchen's game-ending, two­tion. 
Murphy's solo shot in the sev­It was Ortiz's 10th career the disabled list before the run homer that finished off the With the Phillies riding a big enth got the Hangers within 4-2 game-ending homer and a fran­game, and the first sign his Pirates' 6-4 comeback victory lead in the NL East and the and snapped Pettitte's streak of chise-record ninth with the Red knuckleball was active was on Tuesday. Pirates in last place in the NL when his first pitch squirted Madson's fifth blown save in Central, there was a 50-50 mix away from new catcher Victor nine opportunities cost Cole among the 17.403 in the stands Martinez. Hamels his first victory since -with as many Phillies fans 
He gave up his only run in the July 28 after the left-bander wearing red as there were first when Gordon Beckham pitched shutout ball for the first Pirates fans in gold and black. reached on an end-of-the-bat time in 2 1/2 months, repeated­single and Paul Konerko tripled. ly working out of trouble while Padres 12, Braves 5 Wakefield allowed just one ball throwing 123 pitches over eight San Diego stunned Atlanta out of the infield until A.J. innings. with a six-run sixth inning, and Pierzynski doubled off the Despite allowing the homer, Kevin Kouzmanoff finished ofT Green Monster with two outs in Madson t5-4) pitched the linal the Braves with a two-run the sixth. two innings for the victory. homer that sent the Padres to a 
Gavin Floyd nearly matched The Pirates' bullpen has its 12-5 rout Wednesday night. Wakelield, but he allowed two own problems, and the Phillies The last-place Padres won solo homers among his live hits, took advantage in the 1Oth. their second straight ovm· tlw walking one and striking out Reliever Steven Jackson (2-3) Braves, whose playoff hopes four in six innings. lie put run­walked Jimmy Hollins and have taken a big blow during ners on first and second with Shane Victorino singled beforn two sparsely attended games at one out in the sixth, but he got left-bander Phil Dumatrait, Turner Field. Youkilis on a fly ball to center pitching for only the third time On Thursday, San Diego will and struck out Ortiz to keep it a since sitting out more than a go for its first series sweep one-run game. year following shoulder surgery, since taking three games from 
Chicago put runners on lirst was brought in to face the left the Chicago Cubs on May 22-24. and second in the seventh. but handed-hitting Howard. Coming on· a 12-inning win in Alexei Hamirez popped out to Howard promptly hit the series opener, the Padres shortstop and Wakefield left Dumatrait's first pitch into the failed to score in the top of the with a 2-1 lead and to a big right-field seats for his 35th first after loading the bases ovation from the crowd -and homer and the Phillies' league­with no outs, then fell behind handshakes in the dugout. leading 180th. Long before, when Brian McCann hit a three­
Nix tied it in the eighth, and Chase Utley gave the Phillies a run homer ofT Tim Stauffer (2­Chicago had a runner on third 1-0 lead with his 27th homer, a 6) in the bottom half of the when Bard relieved Hamirez two-out drive in the first that inning. and struck out Jim Thome with was their only run in seven A three-run lead looked pretty a 101 mph fastball to end the innings against Pirates left-ban­safe against the Padres, the inning. der Paul Maholm. lowest-scoring team in the NL. 
Maholm, coming off his first After escaping that early jam, Phillies 4, Pirates 1 win in seven weeks, was sharp­Kenshin Kawakami (6-1 0) 
Ryan Iloward hit a three-run er than 1-Iamels most of the breezed through the next four home run in the 10th inning game except for one mistake -innings, allowing only two after Philadelphia's bullpen Utley's homer on an 0-1 pitch. baserunners. 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 27, 2009 
there is no such thing as a 'per­didn't quite know what I was starter if Clausen goes down. more season with the Irish. fect game' for a quarterback, doing from a mental stand­"You've got to prepare that Sharpley's main role the next

Positions 
continued from page 24 
first two years with the Bulldogs. 
Clausen, though, still has work to do to match Stafford, who was picked number one overall in the NFL Draft in April. Irish quarterbacks coach Ron Powlus said that he didn't have any specific goals in mind for Clausen in terms of statis­tics, but was pleased with his progress thus far. 
"I think he's where we hoped he'd be," Powlus said. "I have full confidence in Jimmy's knowledge in our offense." 
One thing Clausen has going for him heading into 2009 is offseason momentum. While Clausen came close against Hawaii in the Hawaii Bowl last December, completing 22 of 26 passes for 401 yards and five touchdowns, with no intercep­tions. Not only did Clausen set records in virtually every Irish bowl game category for quar­terbacks, but he also engi­neered the end of Notre Dame's infamous bowl losing streak. 
It may seem a long way removed from the quarterback who came in during the fourth quarter of a blowout loss to Georgia Tech in 2007. Even from the beginning of last sea­son, when the offense sputtered against San Diego State, Clausen says he can feel a dif­ference. 
"The last couple of years, I point," he said in a press con­ference Tuesday. "You know, it's night and day even from last year." 
Clausen said one aspect that has helped him improve his game from a mental aspect was working with Irish head coach Charlie Weis breaking down game film. 
"I like going in the film room," Clausen said. "Watching a lot of film and getting the game plan ready to go." 
Backing up Clausen will be sophomore Dayne Crist, who didn't see any game action last year in order to preserve a potential fifth year. This year, Weis said Crist will be prepar­ing the same way Clausen does, and will be ready to be the way with Dayne," Powlus said. "When you're in the role Dayne's in, you're a snap away." 

Powlus added that while Dayne may not be as mentally mature as Clausen in terms of his knowledge of the offense, the coaching staff would make sure that he would be able to compete if put in a game situa­tion. 
"They're at different develop­mental stages, so the meetings certainly go a little differently," Powlus said. "But the goal is to get Dayne ready to go play." 
The third quarterback in line is fifth-year senior Evan Sharpley, who only decided over the summer to postpone his baseball career for one two weeks will be to imitate Nevada's Colin Kaepernick in practice in preparation for Notre Dame's season opener against the Wolfpack Sept. 5. While Sharpley may not exactly match Kaepernick's running ability, Powlus said Sharpley was doing well so far. 
"[Sharpley]'s athletic, moves around a lot, he throws well. He is going to do a really good job helping prepare our defense." 
No matter who's under cen­ter, though, Powlus said the goal remains the same. 
"Jimmy's goal-our goal­is to get [wins]." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
MLB 
Ho"Well' s wild pitch caps Toronto rally over Ta111pa Bay 
pitch that bounced high and llallion was knocked backward Toronto's comeback cost son, Blue Jays rookie left-bander 
Associated Press 
away from catcher Gregg Zaun, when Travis Snider swung and Kazmir his filth win in six starts. Rzepczynski didn't allow a hit 
TORONTO -Marco Scutaro allowing Scutaro to score without missed at a two-strike pitch that Kazmir allowed one run and four until Pat Burrell's two-out single scored the winning run on a wild a play. seemed to cross up Rays cateher hits in six innings. He walked one in the sixth. Already struggling pitch after Rays closer J.P. It was Howell's seventh blown Zaun, slamming straight into and struck out a season-high 10. with a high pitch count, the rook­Howell loaded the bases with save. l-lallion. Trainers and medical It's the 17th time in his career ie's shutout bid ended on the three walks, and the Toronto Brandon League (2-5) worked staff rushed to Hallion's side and Kazmir has fanned at least 10. very next batter when Gabe Blue Jays rallied to beat Tampa one inning for the win. waved a cart onto the field. Hays reliever Huss Springer Kapler homered into the left field Bay 3-2 on Wednesday night in a It was a tough night to be a Hallion eventually stood up and pitehed the seventh and Grant bullpen, his fifth. game in which two umpires were home plate umpire. Crew chief walked off without assistance. Balfour started the eighth but Hzepezynski allowed two runs injured. Jerry Crawford took a foul ball After a 21-minute delay, the was replaced by Howell with two and three hits in six innings. He 
Rod Barajas hit a tying pinch­off his face mask and left after game resumed with Hallion at outs and runners at first and walked a season-high five and hit homer off Howell (6-4) with two innings while his replace­third base. First base umpire third. Howell got out of it by struck out seven. one out in the ninth. After walk­ment, Tom Hallion, was struck in Brian O'Nora moved behind the striking out Snider. Toronto cut the deficit in half in ing three and with rookie Randy the chest by a pitch from Rays plate and Scott Barry moved Seeking to win consecutive the bottom half on an HBI double Ruiz up, Howell uncorked a wild lefty Scott Kazmir in the sixth. from third to first. starts for the first time this sea-by Jose Bautista. 
MASSES FOR OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
Once again this year, Notre Dame Security Police will permit off. campus students to drive onto Campus on Sunday night in order to be able to attend Mass in their former residence halls. The Bookstore lot will be open for students attending Mass in nearby residence halls. 
Little Flower Parish, which is located next door to or near some new student residencest invites students to join them for a Parish Fair on Sunday, August 30, after all the Masses (8:00am, 9:30am. 
11 :30 am). The parish has a strong social justice and service(·M···.
• 


orientation.. 




Thursday, August 27, 2009 The Observer + ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

. ·H··~E.. 
. :·-: . 



WRITERS 
' . : . . 
. . . . 
T 
....... ···c~;········........ ·

··B·w··.···· s· .~E···· Y....E:·R·.
• . .= : .· 
. . . ~· : 
. . . . 


WA,NTED ~· 
...· .. ~· •~.··· · ... ·.·· .~: : ...·· 
.. 


Ph·oto ph~t•r'S ar,~ p~lid. l'asl e·,;IM~rienree is h.;;;~l:~:•ful.. c:onla~t. Phtl'l~~p E.dlll(~fw [..•),,1~ Al'\r~l:i.::'k lit I wlitl. .d.e rc·~tr rnote Ertf.4}fl~'l~tir~·lirL 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 27, 2009 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
tournament would be to win the Big East, something the seniors have learned is easier said than done. But both cap­tains established the confer­ence championship as a clear goal for the season. 
"We need to come out and prove ourselves again," Nicholas said. "We're really looking to re-name ourselves in the Big East, to win the title for sure. We want to get back on track with the winning tradition at Notre Dame." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
this year's squad is capable of more. 
"It's obviously nice to go to the Tournament, but it would nice to go further," Clark said. ''I'm not hiding that, and the boys feel the same way. It's obviously a goal of ours to make it to the Final Four, but why not a National Championship? This group is more than capable of it." 
Notre Dame looked sharp in an exhibition win over No. 9 Northwestern Monday, but the Irish have a long, difficult sea­son ahead of them. After Tuesday's season opener against Michigan, Notre Dame made it clear that his team's travels to Bloomington, Ind. to first concern is making it to the take on No. 3 Wake Forest and NCAA Tournament. No. 5 Saint John's at the "You don't get there because Adidas/IU Credit of long service. Union Classic. You get there 

"We play a "We may get a little because you tough sched­earn it," Clark
spice, a little sugar, 
ule," Clark said. said. "It's eight
from the freshmen, 
"Last year we in a row, but played the but anything from you're not going third-toughest to get there just
them is a bonus."
schedule, and because it's [the this year we'll ninth season]. be right there Bobby Clark Getting there is again. We play a Irish coach a good season. A really good great season, schedule, but you have to get that's what you want to do. You to the Final Four." want that to prepare you for the Adding to the hype for Notre [NCAA Tournament]." Dame is one of the nation's 
In spite of all the high hopes strongest freshman classes. for the Irish season, Clark has Clark put together a solid recruiting effort that has made the Irish freshmen the envy of the NCAA, but he's not counting on his young players just yet. 
"Our success is going to hinge around the sophomores, the juniors, and seniors," Clark said. "They're going to make the team. We may get a little spice, a little sugar, from the freshmen, but anything from them is a bonus." 
Notre Dame will open its reg­ular season against Michigan Tuesday with the Irish's final game at Old Alumni Stadium. The New Alumni Stadium will host its first match on Sept. 11 when Notre Dame takes on Seattle. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


Ferguson 
continued from page 24 
"We would like to have a good showing at the NCAA meet, where the past three years we have just been trying to make it there," Ferguson said. 
In her junior season, Ferguson finished in the top fifteen at both the Big East Conference meet and the NCAA Great Lakes Regional and placed first at the National Catholic Invitational. 
"The biggest key for her to be able to get to that next level will be to stay healthy," Connelly said. "Last spring she was really fit and running great, then she suffered a fluke injury that, while it did-n't keep her from running completely, really compro­mised her training and in the end kept her from accomplish­ing what she had hoped to accomplish." 
Despite last season's set­back, Ferguson and the rest of the team have a full schedule that hopefully will yield new records and new personal bests. 
"Like Lindsey, I think that the rest of the team is very motivated and excited for the year of running," Connelly said. "They know that we have we were a good team last year, now it's time to see if we can be a great team, which is the expectation here at Notre Dame. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Tennis 
continued from page 24 

replace Helgeson in the No. 1 spot, will be the biggest returning talent for Notre Dame. Havens was 10-15 last season playing in the No. 2 singles spot. 
"On paper that will be the biggest challenge facing us this year ... to find someone capable of productivity [in the No. 1 singles position]. Last year, Havens at times played like that player, but he needs to demonstrate the match-to-match consistency that was missing a year ago," Bayliss said. "Certainly he has the ball striking ability to win at the top. Adding a stronger presence at the net will give him a chance to see just how good he can become." 
Sophomore Casey Watt will also be called on to step up and con­tribute for Notre Dame this sea­son. Bayliss noted that he had a good season last year, but that he too needs to improve his net play in order to realize his full poten­tial. 
Junior Dan Stahl proved to be a good find for the Irish last season playing at the No. 3 singles posi­tion after moving up the lineup. 
"Stahl showed flashes of bril­liance last year, but again at a mid-lineup level," Bayliss said. "He takes the ball very early and needs to get in and finish better at the net as well as to improve his serve in order to play higher." While the Irish come into the sea­son with a deep lineup Bayliss knows that filling the void left by Helgeson will not be easy. 
"If we have success in our upper lineup we can be a top 15 team this year," Bayliss said. "We have an outstanding freshman class that will impact us immedi­ately and return nine of our top 10 singles players from a year ago. Last year we showed the ability to beat top 10 teams like Texas A&M and Illinois, but lost seven 4-3 matches to teams that we were in a position to beat. That is what happens to teams that start five out of six players who are freshmen and sopho­mores." 
Bayliss noted that both Bias Moros and Michael Moore have had success in Futures events and Junior Nationals respectively throughout the summer. 
The Irish will kick off their fall season when they compete in the Illini Invitational in mid­September. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


BetV\'een Religion ancJ Literature: f'."'eaning~ '\/'ulneralJility an<J Human Existence 
LLR() 40107. (:'nlsslist: Rl.'r 40241, EN(1t. 40157, 'I'HEf) 40837~  Ln· 73970  
r:'ALI. 2009  
Vittorio Montcrn.:tggi  TR  l 2:30-I :45  


and the in"laghutti<..}n engaged by literary texts'r ~ 4 flo\.v <loes a.! I this relate to ho-v.' '\.\/e think about Clod, butnan nature, and tl1c relationship bct'\.vcen thcan?' Such questi<..HiS -..vi 1l be addressed, in partict..tlar·, by reflecting on ho-v.' the texts studied invite us to think about love, fbrgiv·cncss, vulncn.tbility and creativity. 
\/ittOCl() iv·1ontcrn<:lggi hns !"H;;'t;,"n rlj)j)(Yinted l'ly the C'ollcgt_• or Arts anti I .t:·Hvt·s Hs the ne,,.· Assistant Pn)fcsscw of l~eiigi<n< an<l I .it...:.·t·ature. He joins N<>trc [)arne fn·nn the tJnivcrsity nf ('arnbdcigc~ \Vhcn: he received n B/\ in ·rheology and H:eligious Studies, an 1\iJPl'!il in l<ur'O(~H.:nn LiteraHJn: and <.1 PhD in Theology. and \.vherc he held rcs~:ur·ch and tcw.:hin .-H>sit.i(HlS in the t\vo tickls, 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, August 27, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
~~ .'M fit ,,. ·;d; fX#'I'!Ki .w;.J~ 1 -~#K'IM
14WffilfW4 K>W %%tm 4 !¥-&~'• ,,,_ q!Nt )I§ t ;%%%$ i;t-M$ t;¥'0*4 
) t.. 1-w~t·=<c-~r >w C~t.,; tli!A\'W ®tW 
·;~: ~··'~Kt :-J:tr t'r~=~t= 4tf.4~J %~¢hr·~ f:t;~!itd'W? ll;:{-~ilf'#tW H ra:~ tV Mt:+ o;.~.#=.:t·~-*-<~W t; .--hj¢i #'V.>i :>:J· C+$-·_,~· l !-L'k%1*~" 1# '¥¢ j~-dW4\iid It 1'!~4tttm t¥hl!i ctal!i <tt*'\®W iO>ttp \-$, \ *"' ~~f"%· 'fu)!(l>"f ¥IIi ''*r--~ 7 >~ C-+¥1'*"!%# 1' :' N!IM#-~> ;'.,;l!fi''f-'i''; w&Uitlitil (1"\1!1$-<1%><' lif'~;ltAJdi%) 
!4 'V%'t-t;$ 
~ 

ttKwd d t"®w<r -®~##4~­
tt~ 

b® ~ 
*~¥111¥-~

Hi• ~~<-• •JI\1\t!t$1{$ w#CI%<:~~* 
:$ ¥;;%it 1\r;;;wtt.

t~ 'W:%-~f' 
IW¥4. 

H-~!)1'-#<t-'~ y)~-"¥ 
:.~-at;-t;p M~ "{~~;¢ r 
2<4 t'%1¥~ t!Mill\4~ 14 #%A'i'¥># %it ~,, 
tt-'W'M#;"i< 
$f!,(;4r%

l~~-#t%#~ 
*f+,$ti 

ti\f#¥~ 'f# $~4@'1sl 
4 '*''+-#¥tit< M44¥ 

~'--S-~6/' ~'* t~ 1'%t$tf' 
r ~ *'%%'J ~­

(If;¢~# cl\1\t;&:;t>Mo'>~M* lN!iiMJ-fliNt ¥
®mww t!t

ll~lillt;~­4¥;1 'i:N lltil¥•1'/d#f 
1%~%­
!KVW<'!'$¥iFlf

~=-~·4~· #;''iiif¥$!'¢ Iii#$!% 
·v: ··t¥w ;""" >;At~ 
"*''*~*

M41••--$4 %hi'*%t l\1!¥§* * 0 hi¥~¥M!!i$ i# ¥ 
$•@# 
1} u~ w-CwtrA ~x -w* Jit# •hta­
¥\t $%;§. ~#. t w 
H t'il"i#W>i<!Ht% 
1./ ~{~i:r,Wk.f.#­'t.j *-*=*i¥~# 
11 ~W1V. 
1tl1iiit ®Ni:::w. ;!%; MEt... if-q 
Mt t);;Wrtf# 141' }.41 'lbwt X ~'¥§% "" -¥4 

WILLSHORTZ 
4\t~&.l.?f;);;,wi ?;t "ltw:i i'#lfC%AA%­W f$J?ll'4W®®f!ht' 
-f% '1/#¥,¥ Wk 
¥i~Ght 
;¥$•· ;;::&f#ey;''~ 
k¢¥'4
*t 40i;ri;@¥¥j;
f'%'tit® . 
!11it h #¥$ F*A¥ 

$$-@im;rw ** !l'-1 h&Wit¥% (t W A!\ 
itMV/Wf'' A@f· ·14it f'%:·¥.4:%"~ #Mh @lii; *'** et"!¢<4Wek,; M <~' M.#&WW4 dt'f MS¥%7 •*i 
t.\.~: -4:/·~'W.4'%''%, ;,;;x1. t '*~t.?'· *$1!i: =~#Wi.#..;. *:to 4fi $, o:1i~:::~:: .:w: :w~~ -~' .{#:tw}.~.: ''M'>t ! ;¥!)8{;-l(·•& .-hh\>4 




HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Macaulav Culkin. 29: Chns Burke. +1: Branford Marsalis. 49; Geraldine Ferraro. 74 · · 
Happy Birthday: Don't elwell on !lw lhinv~ tlutl are impos~ihle when )Till haw so 1111tch ~(llll~ few your l'ntttn:. Let C\'tc'I)'OJJC see what you <tre cap<~blc 11f accou!Jllisbiug.lt's }T~It tunt tu get tbmfts l!Oinj! lltSicad of taking a wal!-ami·see anitt«ic. Yuur umnben; = :l. 15, 21. 25, 34.42,+1 
ARIES t_Mareh 2l·Aprill91: Pusltin~ others will lead to resentment but doin11 the bulk of what needs to be d(Jl!C on your own will brill!! yt"l j!l'eater adnuration and re>1Je(.1 Alittle tim mixed into your sd!edulc will help }tlU find peace of mimi *** 
TAURFS \April20-Ma~· 2(1): Your reser~:ed appK'til<:b will #ve you the inside scoop and bdp }'ottu~ikc a v<'ry cnttial, futtll'~ alto:ring tkcisiotl. A partnership that bas been up in tho: aircannow he developed He p<~ticnt and willill)!. to listen.*** 
(JEMIN( (1\twy 21-Jtm~ 2ll't: Not e\'<-'l)'rlllll!l is atop pnority is!llle. even 1f smneoue is trying to push you!<:> nl<lke a (kcisiou. Constder what suits yoo best and you will find a way to makt: ymtt dream~ tXJtuc rmc. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't kar failure or back away becau!.C you iliiuk someone can outdo you. Bdk-ve in yourself and w·hat roo have to offer and so will everyone around you. Share iufonnation am! ask for suggestions ***** 
>­

U~O (July l.l-Aug. 22!: Emotionalmatten> will flare up, kavin~ you in~ defenseless po!\i lion if yon have p!Oillis.ed too mud1. Don't bother tr}'U\\1' to Jll.11tipulate the sitnation. Cunfess :mtl move on before yon eutl uplosin~ out personally :mel {inanctally ** 
VIRGO 1Aug.2J·Sepl. 22}: Pmmore effort into low and mm.ance and you willj!et fabu­!otts reSIIlts. 'tour devocion to a canse yoo believe in will enhance )'otiC position in a j!roup you bclonF to aud bring abollt a \'o:r)' mK-rc~tin!l aud llrosperoll\ proposal **** 
UBRA !Sept. :U-Oct. 22l: Stkk to tl~<: Jll~Ule plan you l:.id out or you wtll have w t;«:e up­position and complaints. Ymtt knowledge mid experience will pay off now if yoo can imple ment some of the lessotl5 you have learned m the past. ** * 
SCORPIO(()({. 2.\-Nov. 21J: Lay yot1r cards o11th.: table and discuss any mailers you fed may. becau-.: of a lack of tn1st. ~lifle a deal. (.enernte a higher len·! of interest by cnflltCJU!! sdmcthill~ that will be hard td resi't and wilt create CUII\'CfS<IIion amoug yU11r p<.'t'5. *** 
SAGITIARUlS (Nov, 22-Dee. 2li: DiF deep ami {let to the l>oltom of any situation you fat'e ll¢fore you make a lik altcrin)!. <k'<-~Sion. Love is iu the picture but instabtbty will result if you crut!IOI make up your mind abom a ro~m~ction you still have to your past. Face matters 
head on.*** 

CAPRICORN tlltt. 22-Jan.l9): Don'tlo-.: sight (l{ what\ !(Oill)l. on ;u;ound you. Souteuue may try 10 outmatwuver you in hopes of takin)l. soruethin)l. that rightfully bdon!!~ to you. Tite pncc you pay for a mistake will affect ywr self-esteem ruul rollfideucc **** 
AQl.ARlllS tJM. 211-f'eh, Uh: Before yo\1 ~M sc~ond )\UC$Sllll! what you are doiul!-IOI:'k <~round you. II may be that SOill<'<JIIl: dsc is piayin!l ~motional gaure~ Adja\t your way of thinkiiiF aud ~top beiu~ so ruUibk with ''-'IIIC<llle who is tal"tnf a<l\'anlag~ ol you * * 
PISCES !Feb. 19-Mareh 20): Find om the real <kal before you sirn up for sontethinr that nt.1y take llJl too much tin~e without etiOUI!h payb;~k_ A l<1w interest may be positive person ally but don't lct it influence !be war you do busin<."iS. * * * * * 
Birth<fuy Uaby: Yoo ar<> di~tingnisbed. st.-wUast aud loyal. You art' imagmatiw afl{l St'tlsi tive. Yt~J stick wthe m!es but youdo!t'ltolerJte injustice. 
JEFF KNUREK


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jell Knurek
~liDibl! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 

FARIE 
± 

WHAT THE SCOUT EXPERIENCED WHEN

I [I [J 

HE HIKED THROUGH THE WOODS
tARPITE 


Now arrange the clrcled !etters to form the surprise answer, as





IJ I I I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: A [ H [
I I r I ] I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: MERGE NUTIY EGOISM JETSAM Answer; How the couple described the Grand Canyon -JUST "GORGES' 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 

Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip_________ 

THE OBSERVER 








PORTS
Thursday, August 27, 2009 
page 24 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Senior leaders prepare for final chance at Big East title 
FooTBALL 
.(Smarter' Clausen poised for breakout 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
While the quarterback posi­tion may not have the uncer­tainty of some other spots on the field -linebacker, for example -it still holds just as many questions as Jimmy Clausen prepares for his third season under center for the Irish. 
Clausen finished last season with 3,172 passing yards, 25 touchdown passes and 17 interceptions, giving him career totals of 4.426 yards with 32 touchdowns and 23 interceptions. Optimists are quick to point out that those numbers are better than for­mer Georgia quarterback Matthew Stafford had in his 
see CLAUSEN/page 20 

Take three 


IAN Observer Junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen throws a pass in a 21-13 victory over San Diego State Sept. 6, 2008. 
MEN'S TENNIS 

NDreloads for NCAA toun1eybid 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 

After the graduation of Brett Helgeson, the Irish are looking to build on last season's success with up-and-coming talent. 
"Brett Helgeson brought a level of experience that no one on our current team will have. He was a known nationally elite player and we certainly benefitted from his talent and experience," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "This group does not have a player of his achievements returning, but that does not mean that someone will not be able to be productive at No. 1 singles." 
Junior Stephen Havens, likely to 
see TENNIS/page 22 

N D CROSS COUNTRY 
Ferguson has high hopes for Irish in '09 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Senior cross country star Lindsey Ferguson has a per­sonal goal that extends past the expectations of her team going into the 2009 season. 
"It is the last time I am ever going to run cross country, so I would like to go out with a bang," Ferguson said. 
Ferguson has an excellent chance of being named a 2009 NCAA All-American and antici­pates training all season to be one of the 40 athletes to garner the title of All-American in the NCAA meet. 
"As a runner, the best word that I can use to describe her is tough," Irish coach, Tim Connelly said. "She is one of those people who goes out and runs as hard as she can from the gun." 
Ferguson, who boasts a per­sonal best mile time of 4:50, and the rest of the girls have been working hard with previ­ously dictated training sched­ules during the past summer months. 
"Our coach and weight train­er sends us a training schedule for the entire summer, so I just follow that to stay in shape," Ferguson said. 
This season consists of three major events for both the men's and women's teams. The Irish will compete in the Big East Championship meet, the NCAA Great Lakes regional competi­tion, and hope to qualify as many runners as possible for the NCAA Nationals meet in Terre Haute, Ind. in late November. 
see FERGUSON/page 22 
MEN'S SOCCER 


Team eyes postseason run 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

The Irish have reached the NCAA Tournament a pro­gram-record eight consecu­tive years, but the team has just two quarterfinals appearances to show for their efforts. This year, Notre Dame has set the bar a little higher -an NCAA champi­onship. 
The No. 12 Irish, who have claimed Big East regular sea­son titles in each of the last three years, were bounced from the NCAA tournament in the second round in 2008 after consecutive quarterfi­nals appearances in 200(, and 2007. Ninth-year Irish coach Bobby Clark, while not belittling his team's impres­sive streak of Tournament appearances, said he thinks 
see SOCCER/page 22 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has won nine conference titles in its 15 years as a member of the Big East ­but no current players can attest to these victories. 
The Irish captured their last Big East crown in 2005, when captains Christina Kaelin and Jamel Nicholas, as well as the four other seniors on the team, were no more than recruits. But the women still have one more chance, and the captains agreed that they plan to make the most of it. 
"It's a now or never kind of attitude," Nicholas said. "We're all pumped about it. We're play­ing with a chip on our shoulder to go out there and get it done." 
The seniors came to Notre Dame in 2006 as a recruiting class named one of the best in the nation by Volleyball Magazine. But key injuries and a couple heartbreaking losses have stopped the Irish from liv­ing up to their potential. 
"We've come so close, but so far we haven't been able to come away with a big champi­onship," said Kaelin, who sat out her sophomore season because of a torn labrum. 

Because of her injury, Kaelin could do nothing but watch while Notre Dame fell to Louisville in the semifinals of the Big East tournament in 2007. 
"It was definitely tough to sit on the sideline and not con­tribute on the court," she said. 
However, she credits the injury with helping her to learn the technical aspects of the game, which she used to her advantage last season when she led the team in several cate­gories and earned a second team all-Big East honor along with fellow senior Serinity Phillips and junior Kellie Sciacca. 
"I learned to be able to ana­lyze the game, and I think that helped me out last year," Kaelin said. "I'm not one to think about strategy or technical stuff, so I think being out helped me think about different shots." 
In 2008, Notre Dame once again lost to Louisville in the Big East tournament, this time in the final round. 
Kaelin said the seniors are especially ready to make a run at the conference again this season. 
"We definitely want to prove ourselves, that we weren't just highly touted high school play­ers," she said. "We want to prove that we can come togeth­er and win at the next level. And this is our last chance to do 

it... The Irish have also fallen short of making the NCAA play­offs the past two years after earning an at-large bid in 2006, when the current seniors were freshmen. "It was a valuable experience to be there," Nicholas said. "We can tell the younger girls what needs to be done. It's definitely a goal to get back there." The surest way to make the 
see SENIORS/page 22 
IAN 

Junior Jeb Brovsky dribbles toward the goal in a 2-1 victory over Dartmouth on Sept. 5, 2008. 




