
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 22 WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER23. 2009 
Burglars target off-campus housing 
Theft rates stay constant as criminals continue to look for electronics, open windows 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Senior Ellyn Michalak sat in her living room reading a book when she heard loud noises coming from the kitchen. She expected to see her roommate doing laundry, but instead dis­covered a large man jumping off the kitchen counter who had broken through the window. 
"I started crying and scream­ing, and I said, 'Get out of my house!' I was drinking a cup of water and I threw it at him," she said. "It was absolutely the most terrifying experience of my life." 
Michalak and other off-cam­pus students have been victims of burglary or attempted bur­glary since the beginning of the school year, but the numbers are not unusually high, South Bend Police Captain Phil Trent said. 
"The burglary numbers are fairly consistent with previous years," he said. "We have not seen a wild spike in burgla­ries." 
Over the past two weeks, there have been four break-ins in the vicinity of South Bend where 85 percent of Notre Dame off-campus students live, he said. 
Trent did not know how many 
see CRIME/page 6 

~Pl'Oot 



Your BoUse 
11Keep windows and curtains closed. 
r=1J Write down serial numbers of expensiw ~ items. 
~ lock your doors before heading to class. ~ because the majorfl¥ of burglaries happen during the day. 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

Health Services gives free flu shots 
University increases supply by 1,000, offers 6,000 flu vaccines to students, faculty and staff 
cines to meet this year's demand, Klevasaid. 
"It's hard to say. We certainly hope so and we did purchase additional doses. We will try to get them to everyone, but we cannot promise that," Kleva said. "We're trying to be convenient for the students, so they don't have to go off campus." 
If a student i..<; unable to obtain a free vaccination this week, there are plenty of additional vac­cines available in the South Bend community that covered by most insurance companies, Kleva said. 
Kleva said the money for the students' vaccines comes from 
see SHOTS/page 4 


By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 

University Health Services will offer 6,000 free influenza vacci­nations to Notre Dame students, faculty and staff, exceeding last year's supply by 1,000, Director of University Health Services Arm Kleva said. 
Vaccines were distributed yes­terday, and will be available today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and tomorrow from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Stepan Center. The shots are being given on a first come, first serve basis. 
Even with the increased supply, University Health Services are unsure if there are enough vac-
Mobile blood drive welcomes walk-ins 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 

The 40-foot long Bloodmobile and accompanying Blood Drop mascot were hard to miss for students walking to class from the stadium lots yesterday morning, as the South Bend Medical Foundation (SBMF) held its first monthly mobile blood drive Tuesday from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. in front of Gate D of the Stadium to encourage walk-in donations. 
"Notre Dame students are very generous when it comes to blood donations and we are so thankful for the support of the students, faculty and staff," SBMF Communications Specialist Colleen Hahn said. 
Although there was no target number of donors for Tuesday's blood drive, event staff expressed disappointment with Tuesday's turnout of 20 donors and said they hDpe to double the number of student, faculty and staff donations at next month's drive. 
"Since this is the first time we have tried a bloodmobile drive without a specific spon­sor we did not have a numeri­cal goal. Normally we would like to see 10 donors an hour in our bloodmobile," Kay Clark-Cox, blood donor recruit-
see BLOOD/page 3 
-------------, 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND class to take overseas 
•

excursion 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Occasionally, a course at Notre Dame will involve a field trip. Sometimes, it's to a local destination. But in a few cases, students find themselves thousands of miles from campus with their professor and classmates. 
During fall break, a University art class will be traveling to London and Ditchling, England to enhance their knowledge of the art of Eric Gill and the Guild of Saint Joseph and Saint Dominic. 
Professor John Sherman will take the three students in his class to multiple sites in England in hopes of bring­ing to life their wisdom on the life and works of Eric Gill and the Guild. 
In a proposal to Learning Beyond the Classroom, a source of funding available at the University, Sherman stat­ed that the class's purpose for the trip is to "produce a monograph on a topic they will determine together based on the life and work of members of the Guild of Saints Joseph and Dominic." 
To accomplish this task, students will also be using 
see TRAVEL/page 4 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Housing Web site discussed 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) discussed a new proposal for an off-campus housing evalua­tion Web site that would give cur­rent off-campus students the opportunity to rate their housing locations and experiences for the benefit of next year's prospective tenants. 
"The site is similar to NO Today," student body president Grant Schmidt said. "We are starting early to create this, and I think this could be a valuable resource." 
Modeled after a similar 
see CORlpage 6 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER SMC offers series on academic success page 3 +The undead spread page 10 + Football injury updates page 20 +Viewpoint page 8 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 23, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Know your role 
The workplace. No matter your edu­cation level, everyone still must, at some point or another, experience the excitement and the annoyance of hav­ing to coexist and be productive with other people who may or may not share anything besides a genome with him or her. 
One crucial aspect of the workplace is the pecking order. Unlike some areas of life, where any­one's opinions are supposed to matter just as much every­one else's, the workplace is found­ed on the fact that some people have more authority than others, which makes things run smoothly when ten­sions are high, as they inevitably will be, likely more often than not. 
For anyone who has worked in some field where the pecking order is defined, there is nothing more excruci­atingly annoying than someone who doesn't understand the pecking order, or does and blatantly ignores it. Those in charge should be in charge, and those below should stay at those lowly depths until they are either promoted or fired, whichever comes first. 
I've been the lowest person on the totem pole, and granted, it's not the most enjoyable experience. But to suc­ceed, you must learn to take the pun­ishment that comes with the position, and survive until you are given some authority. And once your reach that higher position, nothing could be more frustrating that dealing with someone who doesn't understand his particular role. 
As an employee, you don't constantly badger your superior for a promotion, no matter how certain you are that you deserve it. And you especially don't threaten to quit unless you're moved up in the world. That only works ifyou bring something to the table that few others can offer. And odds are, if you're in one of these low level jobs, you don't. 
You also don't make demands on someone who has done what you do, and has moved beyond it. They may have more talent, or simply more experience. Either way, they outrank you, and therefore owe you nothing. 
Now, I haven't 'paid my dues' or done anything that qualifies me as an expert on inter-office relations. Nor do I claim to be one. But I have been employed (multiple times, in fact) and understand that no matter who your superiors are, they deserve your respect, simply because they are your superiors. The only way to move up in the workplace is to earn respect, and you must show respect in order to earn it. 
This may or may not apply in the real world of big business -I wouldn't know. But it surely applies to the on­campus jobs that many of us hold. Fellow students probably outrank you, and you owe them the same respect that you owe any coworker. Some peo­ple would do well to remember that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, the headline "Rickey dies at 95 in his Minn. home" in the Sept. 22 edition of The Observer was not clear. To clarifY, George Rickey died in 2002; the article reports that his estate has donated some ofhis works and correspondence to the University. The Observer regrets this error. 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD SUM UP THE FOOTBALL TEAM IN A POKEMON, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 






Kirsten Adam  Jeremy Lamb  Tori Schopper  Alejandro Sigala  Greg Morman  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Welsh Family  Knott  Farley  Keenan  Keenan  
"Rapidash,  "Voltorb.  They  "Charizard,  "Snorlax.  "Mach amp.  We  
because we get  have the  because the  Because of  are strong but  
the fire burning  potential to  football team is  Charlie Weis."  have no  
on the football  electrify or  evolving and  defense.  ,  
field!"  explode at any  has the  
moment."  potential to be  
powerful.,  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

KATIE GREENSPONffhe Observer High school senior Rachael O'Connor shops with her mom Barbara O'Connor in the Saint Mary's College bookstore during Senior Preview Day Monday. 
OFFBEAT 

Game over: Cops caught playing Wii on the job 
LAKELAND, Fla. -It's game over for some police officers who played video games while they raided a convicted drug dealer's home in central Florida. 
Surveillance video obtained by WFLA in Tampa caught the officers playing a Nintendo Wii bowling game, with one furiously jumping up and down in celebration. Officials say some of the officers could be disci­plined. 
Officers with the anti­drug task force had just stormed into the home of the convicted drug dealer, who was already in cus­tody. One Polk County sher­iff's detective can be seen taking several breaks from cataloging evidence so she can bowl frames. 
The officers did not know a video camera had been set up in the house before the March raid. 
Naked man holds drunken intruder at gunpoint 
LAKE WORTH, Fla. ­Authorities say a 91-year-old South Florida man jumped out of bed naked and held an intruder at gunpoint until deputies arrived. The Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office said Robert E. Thompson woke up Saturday morning after a would-be burglar climbed his backyard fence and was met by his charging dog, Rettt, a Rottweiler and Doberman pinscher mix. Thompson heard the commo­tion, grabbed his .38-caliber revolver and phoned police without ever getting dressed. 
Deputies said Thompson fired a warning shot as 26­year-old Jose Pasqua! started to come toward him. Thompson kept his gun trained on Pasqua! until deputies arrived. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
w 
% 
~ 


3: w 
....I 

e
< 
(,) 


0

_. HIGH 80 HIGH 70 HIGH 78 HIGH 77 LOW 57 LOW 61 LOW 55 LOW 62 
IN BRIEF 

Free seasonal flu shots will be provided for stu­dents, faculty and staff, as well as retirees and their spouses. Shots can be obtained in the Stepan Center today. Current Notre Dame ID cards as well as short sleeves are required. Shots will be given from 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. 

The Department of Physics is hosting a colloqui­um on "Massless and Massive Electrons in Atomically-thin Carbon" today at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. Professor Michael Fuhrer from the University of Maryland will be delivering the lecture. 
John J. Reilly Center will be hosting a lecture on "Hearing the Irrational: Music and the Development of the Modern Concept of Number" Thursday at 4:15 
p.m. in 119 DeBartolo Hall. 
"Earth Days," a film directed by Robert Stone that recounts the history of the modern environmental movement, will be shown in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Thursday at 6:30 p.m. 
The Tokyo String Quartet will be playing in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Friday at 7 p.m. Tickets can be purchased online or at the Ticket Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY  SUNDAY  
e  0,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  

HIGH 72 HIGH 67 LOW 57 LOW 48 
Atlanta 79 I 68 Boston 76 I 61 Chicago 82 I 64 Denver 48 I 41 Houston 91 I 75 Los Angeles 89 I 63 Minneapolis 68 I 61 New York 77 I 65 Philadelphia 78 I 66 Phoenix 99 I 73 Seattle 87 I 58 St. Louis 77 I 65 Tampa 91 I 75 Washington 77 I 69 
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Blood 
continued from page 1 
ment manager for the SBMF, said. 
Clark-Cox said the SBMF previously held blood drives about four or five times a year on campus but hopes to attract more donors by scheduling more blood drives. 
"Notre Dame students, fac­
ulty, staff and "We wanted to make alumni are our blood donation readily
largest con­
available.,,

tributor of blood units to South Bend Kay Clark-Cox 
Medical recruitment manager Foundation," 
South Bend Medical 
Clark-Cox 
Foundation

said. 
The drive's convenient location near DeBartolo Hall and the Mendoza College of Business will make it easy for students, faculty and staff to stop by and donate before class or work, Clark-Cox said. 
"We wanted to make blood donation readily available to commuter students and fac­ulty," said. 
The donation process, according to the SBMF Web site, includes four steps: reg­istration, screening, donation and rejuvenation. 
The mobile blood drives will take place every fourth Tuesday or Wednesday of each month, Clark-Sox said, and each donor can make a blood donation every 56 days. 
"Many students stopped and asked when we were going to back and we will probably change the times to 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. next month," Clark-Cox said. 
E a c h donor will receive a free T-shirt after his or her dona­tion. 
"The ND Donor shirt is only given out at blood drives held on the ND campus and it was 
designed by blood drive coor­dinators from last year's campus blood drives," Clark­Cox said. "They have become a very coveted item." 
Advertisements in The Observer and employee newsletters will inform the Notre Dame community of next month's mobile blood drive. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 

2 Bedroom, 1 ,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On~Site Laundry Only Three Blocks from Campus 
$300Signing Bonus,,,, for 2010-2011 
Leases start at only $350 per month, per student/ 
View the floorplan at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574} 234-2436 
SMC offersst-Uets to academic success 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Whether the problem is time management, studying or read­ing skills, the new academic workshop series entitled "The Secrets to (Academic) Success and Making Your (Academic) Life Easier" 
Diane Fox said. 
The series will focus on a dif­ferent topic each week, and is offered on Tuesdays from 12:30 
p.m. to 1:15 p.m. and Thursdays at 7 p.m. in the Academic Resource Center Annex in the Office for Student Success in Madeleva Hall. 
Fox, who created the pro-
offers solutions 
"Hopefully they·zz see
to help Saint 
Mary's students the value of this and improve their know that this is a 
study skills. 
resource tool and use it
"These are the 
to their advantage.,, 
problems that students most often suffer with 
Diane Fox 
and rather than 
director
struggling on 
Student Success 
their own, this 
[workshop] could be proactive and identify them, and let them deal with them before they occur or know that there is some place that they can come to help them if they are in the midst of it," Director of Student Success gram, said the purpose is "To make life easi­er for you all. The college realizes that some students struggle and this is their response to that, offering to support and certainly to help with it." 
Students have responded posi­tively to the workshops, Fox said. 
"The students who have attended have been very pleased and they are repeat attendees, and several of them 

STUDENTS 
have come in to speak with me individually about concerns and/or help with time manage­ment or anything that they may be experiencing, any difficulties they may be experiencing in classes," Fox said. "It's been very well received so far." 
Each workshop specializes on a different academic skill, Fox said. Workshops range from how to concentrate to how to avoid procrastination, as well as strategies to review and take tests. 
According to Fox, attendance has been high at the workshops. 
"The first one had 20. The second one had 25. So far, first years, sophomores and juniors are utilizing it. I haven't had a senior yet, but that's not to say that someone won't come. There have only been two work­shops," Fox said. "Hopefully they'll see the value of this and know that this is a resource tool and use it to their advantage." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session 
BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be heldon Sunday, September 13th and Sunday, September 27th, at 7:00pm In Geddes Hall (CSC Building) in B001 Andrews Auditorium. 
The sessions will last approximately 45 minutes. 
Please bring your driver's license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, 
faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. 
See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you may contact Transportation Services at 631·6467 



Shots 
continued from page 1 
the University Health Services budget, while Human Resources provides the funds for the faculty. Because the vaccines are expen­sive, Health Services carefully monitors the number of vaccines ordered. 
"Say we wanted to purchase 10,000 vaccines and in the past only about 2,000 students came out to get them, if [there were extras], then we would have to absorb the cost," she said. 
Last year Health Services distrib­uted the free vaccines a few weeks later, in the second week of October. 
"We're following the CDC guide­lines, and we ordered these [vac­cines] the spring before. Since we ordered early, they were delivered early," Kleva said. 
The coughs, aches and fevers of the flu may seem months away, but Kleva said the flu season has already begun on campus. 
"It is possible for Notre Dame to have the seasonal flu early, because we have students and visi­tors from all over the world coming from places that already have the flu season." 
Notre Dame's communal atmos­phere with dorms, tight classrooms and sharing of computers, books and desks also contributes to the early onset of flu season and the spread of the virus. Additionally, Kleva said, it can take 24 hours before the first flu symptoms appear, so often students do not realize when they are ill and con­tinue their routines. 
Sophomore Lauren Ruhling received the shot yesterday. 
"I had never gotten a flu shot until last year. I figure living in the close confinements of a dorm would increase my chances of catching the flu, so the shot would be a good idea," she said. "Waiting in line versus misses classes, being sick and missing doing stuff with your friends? You should get the shot-it's free." 
Kleva said the vaccine distribu­tion drastically decreases the num­ber of flu cases seen on campus. 
"The seasonal flu vaccine remains effective throughout the flu season," she said. "Really immunity peaks in the third to fourth month. You'll have immuni­ty through the end of March and April." 
Students receiving the vaccina­tion should wear short sleeves, and any student running a fever may not receive the vaccine, Kleva said. 
Students should come as early as possible, she also advised, as there will be limited amounts of the vac­cine allocated for each day, and when that amount runs out, no more will be offered. 
Any leftover vaccines at the end of the three days will be available at the University Health Center. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein sfelsens@nd.edu 

Travel 
continued from page 1 

The Eric Gill Collection held in the Special Collections in the Hesburgh Libraries. 
"The reason for the trip is to make connections in England with items in the collection [we have] here, to bring it to life," he said. 
The Guild of Saints Joseph and Dominic were a group of Catholic artists who worked, lived, and socialized togeth­er. 
"Members of the guild did stone carvings, wood engravings, and weaving and were also involved in politics and religion," Sherman said. 
In addition to the class's visit to London, they will also visit Ditchling, which is a small village fifty miles south of London. 
The Ditchling Museum, located in the village, has an extensive collection of Eric Gill work as well as pieces from other members of the Guild. Gill resided in the vil­lage for a part of his career. 
Sherman said by taking students abroad he is able to enrich students' knowledge better than by only restrict­ing their learning to a class­room. 
"This is a way for me to 
share with students area of she chose to participate in research that a lot of times the class because it was a doesn't happen easily in a great opportunity. regular class," he said. "It will be exciting to be in 
Last Spring, Sherman took the same place as the person a different group of students that we're studying," she to the country to study the said. "Especially because it's same topic, labeling their design class, we are image-journey as a oriented peo­"research ple and it will adventure." be good to see 
Graphic "It will be exciting to be things in per­
design major, in the same place as son." Micahlyn Although
the person that we're 
Allen, who Sherman will be going studying." believes it will to London be financially this fall, was difficult to
Juliana Hoffelder 
also on the make another
senior
trip that took place last spring. 

"We were able to use the printing press, while there," she said. "Having first hand experience really connects you to everything you're learning about and meeting people that you read about was just a really neat expe­rience." 
She said the prior trip cen­tered around the village of Ditchling, whereas this trip will primarily focus on research in London. 
In addition to visiting sites and museums, the class will also speak with a relative of Eric Gill's apprentice, Allen said. 
Senior political science major Juliana Hoffelder said trip, he said 
the trip will 
be a chance for the students to learn about a different lifestyle. 
"We live in day in age where we compartmentalize different aspects of our lives, where we have work, family and religion," he said. 
Sherman said he believes the Guild shows that com­munities similar to Notre Dame can exist in places outside the boundaries of this campus. 
"Can the way we exist here in campus exist somewhere else?" he said. "It can, because that's how they worked." 
Contact Sara Felsenstein sfelsens@nd.edu 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Monday, October 5, 2009 
!suMMER ENGINEERING PROGRAMS I 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND OR ALCOY, SPAIN 



Information Meeting: 
Room 138 DeBartolo Hall 
7:00p.m. 
Application Deadline: November 23 for Summer 2010 
Application On-line: www.nd.edu/-engineerI sumlon/apply.html 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Arguments begin in Travolta trial 
NASSAU, Bahamas -Prosecutors said Tuesday that a paramedic who treated John Travolta's son shortly before he died in the Bahamas threatened to release private infor­mation unless the movie star paid $25 mil­lion. 
Travolta is among those expected to take the stand during the trial, but he did not appear in the courtroom during the first day of testimony in the island chain off the Florida coast. 
"Contact was made with certain persons to communicate a threat to John Travolta," Bernard Turner, chief prosecutor in the Bahamas, said in his opening argument. 
Raid discovers police corruption 
MONTERREY, Mexico -Soldiers raiding a drug gang safehouse in northern Mexico found money-stuffed envelopes earmarked for various police forces and one marked for "press," authorities said Tuesday. 
Four people were arrested and $5 million in U.S. and Mexican currency was seized during the raid Monday in the industrial city of Monterrey, according to an army state­ment. Soldiers, acting on an anonymous tip, also seized drugs, money counting machines, cell phones and five vehicles. 
Monterrey and the surrounding state of Nuevo Leon, which borders Texas, have been a focus of the federal government's crack­down on police corruption. 
The cash and seized items were displayed at military barracks north of the city. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Children's health insurance bill signed 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has signed a bill that will prevent nearly 700,000 low-income children from losing health insurance. 
Schwarzenegger signed the bipartisan bill Tuesday in the state Capitol restoring fund­ing to the state's Healthy Families program, a government-funded health insurance plan for children from low-income families. 
The governor and lawmakers slashed funding for the program in July as part of closing a projected $24 billion deficit. The state froze enrollment and would have been forced to end coverage for 670,000 children starting in October. 
5 family members slain in home 
BEASON, Ill.-A couple and three of their children were found brutally slain inside their home in this tiny central Illinois farming com­munity, and authorities warned residents Tuesday to lock their doors at night while inves­tigators try to identify possible suspects. 
Authorities discovered the bodies Monday afternoon after responding to a 911 call about possible shots fired at the address, Logan County Sheriff Steven Nichols said at a news conference. 
A 3-year-old girl survived the attack and was taken to a hospital in Peoria, he said. The girl's grandmother identified her as the couple's daughter, Tabitha Gee. 
Nichols declined to say why his office didn't release information about the slayings until Tuesday morning. He said detectives were try­ing to identify possible suspects, and that those responsible for the killings should be consid­ered "armed and dangerous." 

LOCAL NEWS 
$5,000 found and returned to owner 
STILLWELL, Ind. -Police say $5,000 in cash found along a northern Indiana high­way was returned to its owner after being turned in by the man who spotted it. 
A man found a bag with the cash inside Friday afternoon near his driveway along a rural stretch of Indiana 4 near the LaPorte County community of Stillwell. He called LaPorte County police, who were able to track down the owner through a bank deposit slip that was inside. 
The owner told police she would offer a reward to the man who found the money for his honesty. 
Obama,Chinadiscussclimatechange 
Nations vow urgent action at U.N. summit to combat an overheating planet 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS President Barack Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao each vowed urgent action Tuesday to cool an overheat­ing planet, even as prospects dimmed for a full treaty by the end of the year. 
The world's two biggest greenhouse-gas polluting nations were the focus at the U.N.'s unprecedented daylong climate change summit, which drew more than 50 presidents and 35 prime min­isters, along with many envi­ronment ministers and at least one prince. 
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon opened the gather­ing with an appeal to leaders to set aside national interests and think about the future of the globe -and a rebuke for their foot-dragging thus far. 
"The climate negotiations are proceeding at glacial speed. The world's glaciers are now melting faster than human progress to protect them-and us," the U.N. chief said. 
Failure to reach a new international pact on climate change "would be morally inexcusable, economically shortsighted and politically unwise," Ban warned. "The science demands it. The world economy needs it." 

Tuesday's U_N. gathering to act." .., (388,500 sq. kilometers) -Still, China and other devel­and the G-20 summit in "The threat from climate an area nearly the size of oping nations "should not ... Pittsburgh this week are seen change is serious, it is urgent, Germany and France com­be asked to take on obliga­as an attempt to pressure and it is growing," Obama bined -and generate 15 tions that go beyond their rich nations to commit to a said, after receiving loud percent of its energy needs development stage," Hu said. global climate treaty at applause. "And the time we from renewable sources with­China and India, the Copenhagen, Denmark, in have to reverse this tide is in a decade. world's fifth-biggest green­December, and to pay for running out." He said the communist house gas emitter, both want poorer nations to burn less But while Obama cam­nation would also take steps to link emissions to their coal and preserve their paigned for the presidency to improve energy efficiency growth in gross domestic forests. vowing to push through strin­and reduce "by a notable product, meaning they still 
With a mere 76 days to go gent cuts in U.S. emissions, margin" its growth rate of may increase emissions even before the pivotal conference, he has run up against stiff carbon pollution as measured if they take fundamental it appeared an interim agree­resistance among against economic growth -steps to curb them in the long ment might be the most that Republicans, and the Senate though he did not give any run. could be expected in most likely won't have written specific numerical targets. Experts were watching December, leaving difficult climate legislation until after "At stake in the fight China closely because it has details for later talks. the Copenhagen meeting. against climate change are in the past largely ignored 
"We are on the path to fail­By comparison, Hu runs a the common interests of the global efforts to diminish ure if we continue to act as command economy and was entire world," Hu said. "Out emissions. The United States, we have," French President unencumbered by political of a sense of responsibility to under former President Nicolas Sarkozy cautioned. opposition. He outlined an its own people and people George W Bush's administra­
Much attention was fixed ambitious program that across the world, China fully tion, stayed away from inter­on Obama's first U.N. speech, included plans to plant appreciates the importance national commitments citing in which he pledged the enough forest to cover about and urgency of addressing inaction by major developing United States is "determined 150,000 square miles climate change." nations like China and India. 


HONDURAS 

Deposed president holed up in embassy 
gunpoint on June 28, triumphantly for the ousted leader. 
Associated Press popped up in the capital Monday, "The inviolability of a diplomatic TEGUCIGALPA -Baton-wielding telling captivated supporters that mission does not imply the protection soldiers used tear gas and water can­after three months of international of delinquents or fugitives from jus­nons to chase away thousands who exile and a secretive 15-hour cross­tice," said Micheletti's foreign min­demonstrated outside the Braz.ilian country journey, he was ready to lead istry adviser, Mario Fortinthe. embassy Tuesday, leaving deposed again. Police and soldiers set up a ring of President Manuel Zelaya and 70 Interim President Roberto security in a three-mile (five-kilome­friends and relatives trapped inside Micheletti's response was terse: ter) perimeter around the embassy. without water, electricity or phones. Initially he said Zelaya was lying Security Ministry spokesman Orlin "We know we are in danger," about being back. Then after Zelaya Cerrato told The Associated Press Zelaya said during interviews with appeared on national television, that two policemen had been beaten various media outlets. "We are ready Micheletti pressed Brazil to hand him and 174 people were being held on to risk everything, to sacrifice." over under a warrant issued by the charges of disorderly conduct and Heavily armed soldiers stood guard Supreme Court charging treason and vandalism. A doctor interviewed by on neighboring rooftops and helicop­abuse of authority. Radio Globo said 18 people had been ters buzzed overhead. Some officials suggested even treated at the public hospital for Zelaya, forced out of his country at Brazil's embassy would be no haven injuries. 
Cri01e 
continued from page 1 
burglaries have affected stu­dents since the beginning of the school year, because police do not distinguish between students and perma­nent residents. 
Students may be at a higher 

risk, because burglars usually 
want to steal electronics, like 
laptops, iPods and televisions, 
Trent said. He also said the 
majority of bur­
glaries happen dows and curtains closed, Trent said. 
"There's pe.ople with their front windows right open and I can see a 50-inch plasma screen from the street. You can see someone with the lights on in their house and they're working on a laptop computer," he said. "A bur­glar can do an assessment of what they can steal just by walking down the street look­ing in the windows." 
Dominic Zultanski, a South Bend Police officer and opera­
tions manag­
er for 

during the day Gargoyle
"A burglar can do an
when students Preferred 
assessment of what
are at class. Investigative 
Michalak said they can steal just by Services who the burglar works with
walking down the
who broke into KTamer 
her house on street and looking in Properties to Notre Dame the windows.,, prevent and Ave. during the respond to day expected burglaries,
Phil Trent 

no one to be said students 
captain

home. should also "The guy South Bend Police be wary of 
obviously didn't want me to be there when he walked in the house. He looked just as pan­icked as I did," she said. 
Although the man fled the house through the front door after he saw Michalak, she said her biggest fear was that the man would hurt her. 
"It was terrifying . . . He was like twice the size of me," she said. "The first thing that's going through your mind is, what happens if this guy attacks me?" 
Michalak said the police brought six squad cars along with sniffing dogs to investi­gate the attempted robbery. They also took fingerprints from the window and showed mug shots to Michalak to help identify the burglar, she said. 
Since the break-in occurred, the police told Michalak they found the man and arrested him. 
"They just said that he's actually going to jail for two robberies. Ours wasn't the only house that he had broken into and entered," she said. 
Nothing was stolen from Michalak's house, but junior Matt Coyne wasn't so lucky. 
Coyne spent the summer in South Bend doing research, and in early July, his house was broken into in the middle of the night, he said. 
"I woke up on Sunday at 11 

a.m. after going to bed at 4:30 a.m.," Coyne said. "Our TV was gone and that's the only thing I noticed at the time. And I noticed the kitchen win­dow was wide open." 
Coyne said he later discov­ered his roommate's laptop and an Xbox 360 had been stolen. He estimated the value of the stolen items at $4,000. 
Coyne said he and his room­mates had just moved into the house a few weeks earlier, and had not set up a security system. 
"We just kept putting off getting our security system installed," Coyne said. "That's on us. We thought [burglary1 was a possibility, but never thought it would actually hap­pen." 
Coyne said police did not find out who was responsible for the theft. 
"I think all of my roommates would say to not mess around with the security system, to get that installed as soon as you can, and make sure that you're not careless with lock­ing windows and doors," Coyne said. 
To prevent burglaries, stu­dents should keep their win-people offer­
ing to clean up cups after a party or shov­el snow. 
"Thef:ie guys are coming around. They're knocking on doors. They're asking to shov­el your driveway. All they're doing is scoping out your home," he said. 
Zultanski said students would have a better chance of recovering a stolen item if they know its serial number. 
"Take the time and think about all the things that, if someone walked in right now and just wanted to steal things for money, what would they steal?" he said. "Write down that list. Put down your make, model and serial num­bers for all those items." 
Zultanski said Kramer Properties residents can go to the Gargoyle Preferred Investigative Services Facebook group to get updates about area crimes and ask questions. 
Machalak said prior. to the attempted burglary in her house, there were 17 mem­bers in the Facebook group, but the word has spread. 
"Since our break-in, there are 120 members now. I think people are starting to take it seriously," she said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 
Northwestern University Web site, the purpose of the resource is to create an objective evaluation of off-campus housing and a means of communication between stu­dents and landlords, Schmidt explained. 
Collaborating with Northwestern, Schmidt worked with Walker Anderson and Joey Rich to build a Wt~b site exclusively for students, listing specific categories of off­campus housing that students can rate on a numeric scale. 
The Web site has a dual purpose as not an avenue for giving stu­dents information but also as a means of communicating with landlords to notify them of specific residential problems, stUdent body vice president Cynthia Weber said. 

COR discussed the value of induding a subjective section in the evaluation as well as the conse­quences of sharing the survey results with local landlords. 
Many COR members agreed that a subjective section is necessary for students to have a clear idea of the house or apartment. 
Developing a system similar to the Teacher and Course Evaluations (TCE), COR members suggested aggregating the infor­mation each year into a yearly report that would provide the numerical averages for each resi­dence evaluated on the Web site. 
In other COR news: 

+ 
Lee Svete, director of the Career Center, notified COR of new study space available to students on the first floor of Hanner Hall in the interview center on Sunday through Wednesday from 8pm to lam. This announcement comes as a result of a new initiative to make more buildings available to students in the evening for study and meeting. 

+ 
Chipotle opens in Eddy Street Commons on Friday. As part of the grand opening, Chipotle is offering free food and drinks on Thursday from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. 


Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 

[ill].[] 

The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business 


lltilll . 

and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
.
~-­

Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
''The Importance of Ethical Leadership" 
John E. Rooney President and CEO ,. U.S. Cellular 

Wednesday, September 23,2009 7:00p.m. 
' 


Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 
Deluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments 
2Bedroom Apartments & Townhouses !Bedrooms Furnished Studios 
1,2, &3 Bedroom """ Apartments,_
.:,...,,\ 

:;; SWimmingPool, Tennis Cour4 24 HourF 
. .,~f~~~ .a.ball Court ' ' 
•···· Free"bil'lhlng.Beds .. ,.,;:xf·~:·:.::::"lree 'f~er and Dryerin uch unit 
• 
FfighSpeedWirelessInternet a~d Comcas~ , Premium Cable Included ,, .. > .. . t 

• 
Of! Site Management and~it'!. .. . ... .... . . 

• 
OriSite SecurityOfficer ···· · 


·----· --·· 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS

Wednesday, September 23, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,829.87 +51 Jll 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,711 99 1,048 1,688,493,940 


AMEX 


z~~A~+¥~:)·~~%#JJ~:·~,:·. ,~~t.i!·i!~ ,~,~~-.iilii 
S&P 500 1,071.66 +7.oo NIKKEI .(iok)toJ..•.::•;i1~itJIDJI~b~-li!j~l~illll 
FTSE 100 (London) 5,142.60 +8.24 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) +4.97 +0.22 4.65 E*TRADE Financial Corp (ETFC) -3.52 -0.07 1.92 CIT GROUP INC (DEL) +24.49 +0.36 1.83 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) +2.09 +0.36 17.61 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.89 -0.031 3.46 13-WEEK BILL +5.56 +0.005 0.10 30-YEAR BONO -0.87 -0.037 4.21 5-YEAR NOTE -1.46 -0.036 2.42 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.84 71.55 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +10.60 1015.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) ·1.20 81.40 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 91.1650 EURO 1.4790 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0690 BRITISH POUND 1.6355 
IN BRIEF 8P to pay $1.7 million in oil spill violations 
ANCHORAGE -BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc. has paid the state more than $1.7 million in civil penalties for failing to provide adequate facilities to contain oil spills on Alaska's North Slope, officials said Tuesday. 
Two settlements -one for BP's Prudhoe Bay field and another for the smaller Endicott and Badami fields -were signed last month and the penalty has been paid, said Breck Tostevin, a senior assistant attorney general. 
The settlement is not connected to BP's 200,000-gallon spill in March 2006, for which BP America paid $20 million and pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the feder­al Clean Water Act. 
It's also not part of lawsuits the state and federal governments filed against BP in March. The state lawsuit seeks fines and puni­tive damages plus back taxes for pipeline repairs and a production shortfall of at least 35 million barrels of oil caused by two spills in 2006; the federal lawsuit seeks penalties and corrective action from BP. 
Rather, the settlement announced Tuesday stemmed from a Department of Environmental Conservation inspection in October 2007 that indicated at least three BP secondary contain­ment areas in the Prudhoe Bay oil field did not meet state regulations. 
By state law, major oil facilities must be within a containment area designed to capture oil if there's a spill. 

Half of Madoff accounts show no loss 
NEW YORK -Federal prosecutors in New York say a review of most customer accounts shows that about half of the customers jailed financier Bernard Madoff had when his busi­ness shut down had not lost money. 
Prosecutors made the revelation as they told a judge Tuesday that there was no need to order restitution because all of Madoff's assets will be distributed to investors anyway. 
The prosecutors say a review of claims from most of the customers who had investment accounts with Madoff shows that nearly 50 percent of the active customers invested more money than they withdrew. while the other 50 percent withdrew more than they invested. 
Madoff, 71, is serving 150 years in prison for his multi-decade fraud. 
GM to increase production at plants 

Automaker adds more shifts at factories in Michigan, Kansas, Indiana 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -General Motors Co. will go to 24­hour operations at factories in Kansas, Michigan and Indiana to handle an expected increase in demand and to make up for production lost from a large-scale factory consoli­dation announced earlier in the year. 
The automaker says it will add a third shift at its Fairfax plant in Kansas City, Kan., in January. That will be followed in March or April by third shifts at factories in Delta Township, Mich., near Lansing, and Fort Wayne, Ind. 
About 2,400 production workers will be recalled as a result of the added shifts, and another 600 will be recalled at parts factories across the country, said Tim Lee, group vice presi­dent for global manufactur­ing. 
The increases announced Tuesday, coupled with other production increases unveiled during the sum­mer, will allow GM to raise North American production from about 1.9 million vehicles this year to 2.8 million in 2010, Lee said. 

The increase also is nec­essary because of an plant and reopen in 2011. will be offered to workers LaNeve said. The company, expected sales increase Delta Township will get in· the region and then though, predicts an next year and because production of the Chevrolet across the nation, he said. increase in total U.S. sales GM's inventory of cars and Traverse large crossover GM, under its contract with from 10.5 million this year trucks was at a record-low when the Spring Hill, the United Auto Workers to 11.5 million to 12 million level of 378,000 at the end Tenn., factory that now union, will pay to move next year, he said. of August, said Mark makes the vehicles closes, workers from other cities, Currently GM has about a LaNeve, vice president of also on Nov. 25. That plant he said. 40-day supply of large 
U.S. sales. will go on standby in case Although the company's crossover vehicles, a 52­
The Fairfax plant makes demand increases. dealer inventory is low day supply of Malibus and the midsize Chevrolet Fort Wayne will add pro­now, it will take a minimum a 60-day supply of Malibu, Saturn Aura and duction of heavy-duty ver­of three months to add the Silverado pickups, accord­Buick LaCrosse, while Delta sions of the GMC Sierra and shifts because workers ing to Ward's Township makes the Buick Chevrolet Silverado pickups must be moved and AutolnfoBank. Enclave, GMC Acadia and that are being made in because machinery must Jeff Schuster, executive Saturn Outlook large Pontiac, Mich. That factory be disassembled and director of forecasting at crossover vehicles. The is to close at the end of moved from Spring Hill and J.D. Power and Associates, Fort Wayne factory makes September, the company Pontiac, the company said. said GM has a low supply of pickup trucks. said in a statement. "This is a massive move many models and should 
GM says in a statement Lee said GM will not hire for us in terms of the trans­have 1.5 to 2 times what is that Fairfax will get all pro­new workers to staff the ference of people," Lee now on dealer lots. The low duction of the Malibu when additional shifts. Instead, said. inventory, combined with a midsize car factory in the company generally will GM's September sales an expected uptick in sales Orion Township, Mich., first offer the jobs to work­have been slow following starting next year, means closes Nov. 25. It will be ers at the plants that will the end of the government's the production increase is converted to a small-car be closed. After that, they Cash for Clunkers program, justified, he said. 

Audit quality problems found at Pentagon 
Associated Press ing four audits also had compliance very seriously." 
problems." A spokesman for the agency 
WASHINGTON -Pentagon audi­The DCAA has taken several steps referred all questions to the tors face serious problems in their to correct problems over the past Pentagon. A spokeswoman for the ability to oversee contracts worth year. But more needs to be done to Pentagon did not immediately return hundreds of billions of dollars, address widespread audit quality a call for comment Tuesday evening. according to congressional investiga­issues, a process that "will likely take But Senate committee chairman tors, and a key senator says the several years to change," according Joe Lieberman said the DCAA needs agency in charge needs to focus the GAO. "a complete cultural transforma­more on quality than speed. The watchdog agency identified tion." 
The Government Accountability several deficiencies in Pentagon "It still seems driven by a culture Office reviewed 69 audits and other audits conducted between 2004 and that emphasizes speed and produc­cost-related assignments by the 2006, including inadequate planning tion of audits over the quality of Defense Contract Audit Agency and and supervision, and lack of auditor results," Lieberman, I-Conn., said in found only four complied with gov­independence. a statement. ernment auditing standards. In testimony prepared for a Stephenson, along with the 
"We found audit quality problems Wednesday hearing of the Senate Pentagon's comptroller and inspector at DCAA offices nationwide," accord­Committee on Homeland Security general, and the GAO's managing ing to a copy of the GAO report and Governmental Affairs, DCAA director of forensic audits, are slated obtained by The Associated Press. Director April Stephenson says the to testify before the committee "Although not as serious, the remain-agency has "taken the GAO's findings Wednesday morning. 
·..-:.: 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, September 23, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Operation: Career Fair 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Sreiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORIS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jadyn Espinoza 
CoNTROLLER: Parrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinc.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISmATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by me students ofrhe Universiry ofNorre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration of eirher institution. The Observer reserves me right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lecrers and columns present me views ofrhe aurhors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include comacr intormation. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiif]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observc:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish«! Monday rhrough Friday exc-ept -during ocam and ncarion periocb. Asubscription to The Ob$erver is $120 for onJ: ae.tdemic ~ar. $65 fur one sc:meuc:r. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addt~ cottcc<ions w: 
Norre Dame, IN 46)56-0n9 Thc.Observc:r 
Peflodlcal po~ paid .at Notre Datnc: RO.Bo<m md additional mailing off'KCS. 024 South Dining Hall 
N•<r< Dame, IN 46556-0779 

The: 0~ is. a mc:mher ofthe A:Aociatcd Pro:.. All reproduction rights. .an: tCSO"Vcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Robbie Singer Douglas Farmer Sarah Mervosh Eric Prister Ann-Marie Chris Masoud Woods Scene Viewpoint Blair Chemidlin Patricia Graphics Fernandez Jordan Gamble 
Last week I joined up with the other seniors looking for gainful employment in the year to come. Grad school was out, and the only alternative was to enlist into the 2009 career bound stu­dents and set off for our own Normandy, our own Iwo Jima, and prepare for the enemy: the brigades of companies, firms and enterprises that descend yearly on the JACC for our networking war. 
I arrived fairly early, with full knowledge that the lines would be long, the rations low and the morale even lower. I walked in with a friend, another accounting major, both of us knowing full well that one might not make it out. With our name tags affixed, we wished each other luck and set out. Within minutes I was lost in a bevy of tables, free pens and other sophomores, juniors and seniors, in various states of shock, awe and con­fusion. Recruiters were spilling out into the aisles; the popular companies wielded enough power to block entire swaths of less popular companies. 
Where to begin? Which lines were worth it? Who looked the easiest to jaw with? Or, in the case of Arts and Letters students, who appeared most desperate? Call it shell shock. 
After a few minutes, my feet came back under me. My senses focused, and I achieved, as Leonidas of "300" fame did, "a heightened sense of things." My hands steadied on my black resume folder and my eyes began to pick out my adversaries: my fellow finance and accounting majors each moving quickly and fluidly from table to table, transitioning seamlessly between firms X, Y and Z, wielding their resume and each item on it in the most effective ways possible. These people are the Spartans of the career search world. They will take you out. 


Having been abroad, this would be my t1rst true career fair, and quickly my inexperience was apparent. I dodged into the t1rst line with a com­pany name that I recognized. I thought it would be safe to get out of the big gun's trajectory (Baird, Bain & Co. and Boston Consulting), only to t1nd that seemingly everybody mirrored my instincts. What seemed like smart tac­tics, ended up being the longest 25 minutes of my life. 
What do you say when you get up there? How do you distinguish yourself from the 40 other kids that came before? How can you hide how green you are in the face of this recruiter two years your senior? What if the kid before you just blows them away? 
I stammered out a bit of small talk with my comrades in line, only to be met with stiff resistance, and little aid in developing a kill strategy for the upcoming conversation. At long last, I stepped up, gave my strongest hand­shake, given the tough conditions, and managed a weak first strike along the lines of "So I'm interested in working for your company?" I recovered, though severely wounded, and man­aged to successfully express interest in a position at the company, and end the conversation without taking further damage. 
With a little battle experience under my belt, the succeeding conversations became easier. My eyes glazed over, and the conversation became automat­
ic. The smile aft1xed itself permanent­ly, and my instincts led me to the shorter and easier combat. At t1rst I t1rst handed out resumes with caution, cognizant of the rules of social engage­ment, but it was only a matter of time before they were flying out indiscrimi­nately to any and all recruiters that stood in my way. 
Confidence grew, but so did reckless­ness. Soon there was no conflict that I would back down from. I went to BCG and Bain and made it back in one piece. I jockeyed for position at Deloitte and survived a minor skirmish outside of Ernst & Young. The cam­paign raged, with successes few and far between. Morale sunk, and fatigue set in. Eventually, however, with a late game strategy change, and a little bit of luck, I captured an interview and deelared victory. 
I walked out of the JACC with a lot of casualties. My feet were torn apart from stiff, new dress shoes. My throat was raspy and sore, and I suffered a serious paper cut trying to draw my resume on a recruiter. Mentally, I felt OK, but those things take years to develop. Nevertheless, I walked out with interview in hand, dignity largely intact and enough strength to fight another day. 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
Who will be the second leading receiver for the Irish now that Floyd is out for the sea..'ion? 
Kyle Rudolph Robby Parri<; Duval Kamara Jimmy Clausen 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"You can't base your life on the past or the present. You have to tell me about your future. " 
Chuck Palahniuk 
U.S. novelist 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Act not fiscally responsible 
Class of 1999 alumnus Tim Barnes ("Support financial aid reform," Sept. 21) appears to have regrettably fallen victim to the "truthiness" extolled and rammed down the public's throat by the mainstream media and President Obama. I do not -nor should anyone -fault him for being so deceived. 
A disturbing pattern has manifest itself, one in which those who oppose the growth of government programs are automati­cally castigated as necessarily corrupt for opposing any bill that "should" garner unanimous support from all who care about the welfare of our students/veterans/insert widely supported con­stituency here. 
A closer look at the bill in question, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, shows that its title belies a more disturbing reality. The Cato Institute's Neal McCluskey describes that the $87 billion figure was a June Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimate. By the way, am I the only one mystified as to how the federal government can call it "savings" when we cut money we can't afford to spend from one program and then turn around and shift it to another? In any event, two subsequent updates by the CBO showed that, when the total cost of the bill and the risk of lending are taken into account, the bill "would much more likely become a new, roughly $40 billion burden," explains McCluskey. Of course, those facts were decidedly inconvenient to the bill's author, Rep. George Miller (D-CA), so he retreated to the common Democratic political tactic of claiming that Republicans have an agenda which prejudices them against stu­dents, families and taxpayers (Read: ordinary people). 
The reasoned opposition to massive expansion of expensive government programs -such as the stimulus and impending health care legislation -without a careful examination of both the text of a bill and its economic implications is a laudable action. 
But let's also make sure not to get nickel-and-dimed into an ever-deepening hole of debt by proposals that seem small in comparison. Let's hope that Notre Dame is opposing this bill for the right reasons, and that the University keeps fighting the good fight. 
Brendan O'Reilly sophomore Carroll Hall Sept. 22 

Use of reason needed in debate 
In his "Letter to Priests for Holy Thursday 1995," Pope John Paul II states, "The Second Vatican Council fully grasped the logic of the Gospel ... when it presented the Church first as the People of God and only afterwards as a hierarchical structure. The Church is first and foremost the People of God, since all her members, men and women alike, share-each in his or her spe­cific way -in the prophetic, priestly and royal mission of Christ." 
John Paul II continues to explain in his letter how the hierar­chal structure of the priesthood is a ministerial priesthood in which priests are called to a ministry of service and must thus work to guarantee everyone's participation in the goal of escha­tological fulfillment. Upon examination, it is obvious that the duties to the Church as the People of God must first be fulfilled before one can fulfill the duties to the Church as a hierarchical structure (a lexicographical ordering of sorts). The hierarchal structure must not inhibit the Church from functioning as the Church as the People of God. John Paul II does not believe that the hierarchical structure poses any hindrances to guaranteeing that all people, including women, participate in Christ's prophet­ic, priestly and royal mission. He does remind priests though to remain observant of their duties as servants and to be vigilant that it never becomes the case that the Church's hierarchical structure excludes a certain group from participation. 
Thus, if members of the Church believe that the Church's hier­archical structure, viz., the sole ordination of men into the priesthood, is interfering with the mission of the Church as the People of God, their concern is a completely valid concern. It is good and proper for individuals to raise flags of warning on mat­ters of belief that the Church as an ecclesial community can then subsequently reflect upon. It is simply not adequate to point to a certain Church teaching and proclaim, "See! I'm right!" We must always seek to make use of the reason that God has granted us with. 
Rian Dineen 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Sept. 22 


Manhood only im.portant quality 
Although I have never written into The Observer before (although I have threatened to quite a bit), I felt the need to apologize to the men on campus for us women on campus who dare question the Church's teaching on priesthood. We should have known that Jesus called 12 men together to lead his flock, not 12 women. We should have known that the only distin­guishing characteristic of those disciples was their manhood. It could not have been because of their personality and leadership qualities. And forget historical context. Leave that to the liberal theologians. Of course Jesus would have picked his apostles according to outside appearances and not because of certain qualities necessary to lead like courage and faith. I'm only glad that he didn't choose these men because of their brown hair because what would all those blonde-haired priests at Notre Dame have done when they heard the calling. Seriously though, we women should really learn our place. 
Can you imagine what would happen if a woman gave the sacrament? I mean, what type of message would that send to women who feel like second-class citizens? Certainly women would begin to feel like they have a voice and an opinion to share, and we can't let that hap­pen. Because next thing you know, women will start talking about "rights" and "anti-dis­crimination" and other silly things like that. Come on Notre Dame girls, everyone knows men have struggled for their rights since the dawn of time. Can't we just let them have this one thing? 
Katy Smith senior off campus Sept. 22 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OUR GLOBALIZED ECONOMY 
Bob taqanicejob in an ~ob's job is outsourcedto Uhernpk?Je<t SJb run~ upAmerican Collection agny. Waleea \n Pakistan. aebt on nis creditcard. 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 



t4"-e CL 1-Lte ott!t of tv J, AJm 
By LESLIE SHUMATE 

True Blood 
Scene Writer 
With the teen market flooded with vam­pire-themed media, HBO attempts to The Twilight Saga attract more mature audiences to an 
Those who are familiar with edgier version of a vampire's love story. Stephenie Meyer's "Twilight" The network's darker, sexier rendition book series understand that of a vampire-human romance, "True the novels have become a Blood," premiered in September 2008 national obsession, captur­and has since become HBO's most ing the hearts of teenage popular show since "The Sopranos." girls everywhere. Anyone The show, based on Charlaine who is unfamiliar with Harris' "Southern Vampire Mysteries" "Twilight:" Welcome to book series, is set in Bon Temps, 2009. Louisiana, where many residents are 
All four novels have made gifted with mythic abilities. In this The New York Times' small, fictional town, the invention of Bestseller List and enchant­"Tru Blood," a synthetic blood supple-ed thousands of teenage girls ment, has allowed vampires to "come in the process since the first out" to mainstream society and live side-by­books debut in 2005. The side with their human neighbors. The tension 
Twilight Saga chronicles the romance between Bella Swann and Edward Cullen, a century-old vampire. Bella is immediately attracted to the mysterious, brooding vampire who struggles to resist the tempting scent of her blood. The couple's love is tested when quarrels with other vampires place them both in mortal peril. 
Teenage girls (and those at heart) are captivated by the tantalizing love story and have contributed to the success of the 2008 film adaptation. The film grossed more than $382 million at the domestic box office and "New Moon," the sequel to "Twilight," promises to equal, if not exceed, that return. 
Promising more vampires, action and bare abs from America's favorite vampire and werewolf, "New Moon" is guaranteed to thrill "Twilight" fans. The newest installment depicts Bella's heartbreak after Edward (Robert Pattinson) leaves her in order to ensure her safety from the vampire world. Grieving Bella (Kristen Stewart) turns to risky and self-destructive behavior in order to feel close to Edward, much to the concern of her friend Jacob (Taylor Lautner). 
In addition to tending to Bella's broken heart, Jacob must make some rather drastic adjustments of his own after he becomes a werewolf. He also must deal with his intensifying feelings for Bella, leaving her in the middle of an agoniz­ing love triangle. While "Twilight" fans are divided in their "Team Edward" or "Team Jacob" loyalty, all agree that "New Moon" will provide plenty of drama to sink their 
teeth into. 

Vampire Diaries 

Last week, "The Vampire Diaries" premiered on the CW and proved to be the most-watched season premiere in the network's history. The TV adapta­tion of L.J. Smith's 1991 series of young-adult nov­els follows the romance of Elena Gilbert, a popu­lar but grieving high school student at Mystic Falls High, and Stefan Salvatore, a mysterious stranger hiding a dark secret (three guesses what it is). 
Yes, Stefan is a vampire. His evil brother's reap­pearance in Mystic Falls coincides with a score of new "animal attacks." Stefan is torn between his love for Elena and his duty to protect her and the other residents of Mystic Falls from future vam­pire violence. 
Sound familiar? It is impossible to ignore the blatant similarities between "The Vampire Diaries" and Stephenie Meyer's "Twilight" series. Both chronicle the romance between a human girl and a brooding, handsome vampire. The couples fall in love over an absurdly short amount of time, after the vampire has borderline stalked the object of his affection. In both narratives, the star­crossed lovers are connected by an inexplicable bond, yet separated by one party's need to suck the other's blood. 
While some critics are calling "The Vampire Diaries" a rip-off of the "Twilight" franchise, Smith published her version of the vampire romance more than a decade before Stephenie Meyer claims the idea for "Twilight" came to her in a dream. 
One can only wonder if she fell asleep reading "The Vampire Diaries." 

between vampires and humans is intensified by a number of local murders, as well as "inter-species" relationships between vampires and humans. 
"True Blood" centers on one such relationship ­vampire Bill Compton (Stephen Moyer) and clair­voyant waitress Sookie Stackhouse (Anna Paquin). The relationship is frowned upon by many mem­bers of the Bon Temps community, both human and vampire. In the first season, this tension comes to a head when Bill chooses to break vampire law in order to protect Sookie and must then accept the grim consequences. 
Since its first season, "True Blood" has slowly gained critics' approval and has seen a moderate increase in its weekly viewers. In fact, the second season of "True Blood" ended on Sept. 13 with twice the number of viewers as the previous sea­son's finale. In light of its growing popularity, HBO has confirmed the show will be back for a third season, possibly airing next summer. 
Contact Leslie Shumate at lshumate@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 
page 11' 




By SZ¥MON RYZNER cro\\fdS is also nothing 1;(:) drool .~t. Tl:li$ Scene Writer July in Seattle the world :record was hm~. ken as 3,894 zombies started blankly at As vampires start to get on everyone's eac;:h other until the Gwnnessjudges nerves, here is an update of everything could tabulate their nlifubersi These that is zombie in the world of media. events are most often organized as a rally 
for blood donations although food driv~ Cranberries have also had good success~ 
,1 

The band with the popular song "Zombie" is reuniting to sing and write ~ "Resident Evil: Aft$rllfe" few more single-word titled songs; After a Tne recently annowc six year hiatus the band has decided ta the ~eries.is setto startfilmingin a give it another go and start touring at·· · end of the year in the U.S;, followed further tours in Europe starting in 201m Hopefully for the sake of the Cra.nberrie$ some of their fans are still lingering. ·•;wi 
George A. Romero: N'k 
The man who started an of the zombie madness, George A. Romero, recently presented his latEJst,. film ~Surviv{\,1; .(Jf.tJ:~i Dead" in Venice. Romero can be blanied when it comes to the zombie film plagmk He was the director of the originl!l"Nightof the Uving Dead,,.· a movie from which·· 
most of our modern ~ombie culture emerges.· The film clai,nls to c..~:tt · pushing the envelope when it comes .. explicit violence and gore but it's doubtful ifthis is possible.·'···,,.·...·''·''?+'iiHtti·'··1 
"Zombieland:" 
A zombie horror romantic comedy star• ring Woody Harrelson, Jessie Eisenberg, Emma Stone and Abigail Breslin arriving in theaters Oct. 2. The film pits these fqur non-zombies against an entire society of brain-eating monsters. Hoping to escape the zombie plague, the ~Tew ~;tops atan amusement park. Action and hilarity ensue, along with zombie gore and a heart-warming love story. 
Zombie Walk: during a worldwide zombie infestation 
A type of protest or public gathering of with the h~roes hiding in ajail,.'rJi¢ films people dressed as zombies. Be it for polit-' hav(l· grossed over $450 riilllionworld"' ical or fundraising goals, the popularity of wide, so SC3quel<> will apparently continue these events has grown steadily. The par• as audien~.. continue to R~Y. ticipants slowly waddle and limp towardS··· various locations, occasionally attending Contact Szymon Rymer at zombie pub crawls. The size ofthes~. sryzner@gmail.ccun 
J;lor !Xlaf!.Y older AmeriP&ns.fascinatiQ:Il'With the.. undead began in 1968 with ~orgeA Romero's "Nightofthe living 
e¥ . . m~ ~t ~tarted.with 
~s up ted ~Dawn ofthe 
Fortifications for Zombie Defense at Ni?tre Dame: 

3, The HesburghUbrary. 
:}:Yhe .the ~o~e of~uman eventsit beeom cessary to address an .. 
ding zo1nbi~.crisis,pne ~ot help .Qttl(P~e~~J;Jesb1lrgh /... 
Ubrary a good place to make a stand for freedom. Yet while Club H looks ominous from the outside and provides plenty of W~lem literature to bro\iVSe mid-escape onthe inside, do not forget that almost 
the {mtire first floor is encased in glass windows, 
The ljbrary becomes your best option only are assured of an airlift escape 
your lollTivaL Too much lin­
house that Ted built will 
disastrous. Prepare to build 

.... with medieval poetry a.n(te~ast!~nti•amlthlovels as soon as possi­
me&Mowbray Hal. 

......,,..,_._that houses NDSP will virl11allv indestructible from unnecessar­ily~issued parking tickets, and almost as shelves of cmununition as we saw 
e Matrix." This too does not lend i~lfto a prolonged defensive strategy, h~tg.e; appeal ofHammes-Mowbray lies 
in the access it provides to getting off ca.mpus easily. Remember that your odds qf!l!Mtsidef(l~eare not likely, thus it will beerime necessary to rely on connnon 
· d a cache. of weapons to make 
SC<ipe,. Just be s~ to not enter the 

ffice side on aSunday or Federal Holiday. 
1. J:~ Dining Hall. 
South far surpasses any alternatives for several re~ons. First. there are no easily accessible windows on ground level and the building is reinforced with brick sid­ing/ Esseritiltlly South Dining Hall was bUilt as a zombie-stumping fortress. 
Second and most obviously, a priceless ll'lul4tf1NrlH1:md choices make SOH ideal for nerense. Sustenance, hydration, 
rest are all invaluable intangibles w · a stand against the undead, and becatise the biggest question is always whether to wait for a rescue or atrempta:tt escape, hiding in Notre Dame's mega-kitchen remains ideal. Finally, ifrescue does come. the flat roofS ofSouth'$ great dining rooms allow easy helicopter access for the military. 
The WorSt Place to be On Campus: 
Stepan Center. Before and after any zo1nbie attack, really. 
Colin Rich may be reached at crlch@nd.edu. 
.Tlte vtiiJJs expressed in this column ani those ofthe author and not necessarilytho.se ofThe Observer. 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

,­
' 
NFL 

The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 23, 2009 


Reciever Burress begins two-year prison term 
Former Giant's star was convicted of gun charges after his handgun fired accidentally in a New York nightclub 
\ssociated Press 
NEW YORK -Former Super Bowl hero Plaxico Burress apologized to his family and tearfully kissed his pregnant wife and young son goodbye Tuesday 
before he  was  led away to  
prison  to  begin serving  a  
two-year  sentence  on  a  

weapons charge. 
Burress, at the time a star receiver with the New York Giants, was at the Latin Quarter nightclub in Manhattan last November when a gun tucked into his waistband slipped down his leg and fired, wounding him in the thigh. 
The accidental shooting enraged New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who publicly castigated Burress for carrying his .40-caliber weapon. 
Burress arrived in the courtroom Tuesday wearing jeans and a long-sleeved T­shirt, a stark contrast to the dark blue suit he wore last month when he entered his guilty plea. 
He was accompanied by his pregnant wife, Tiffany; his 2-year-old son, Elijah; his father, grandmother and stepmother. 
Burress told Judge Michael Melkonian before sentencing: "I want to apol­ogize to my family." They did not speak to reporters· as they left the courthouse. 
With time off for good behavior, Burress likely will serve 20 months. He could be released from prison as early as the spring of 2011 and will be monitored an additional two years after he is freed. 
Michael Strahan, a former Giants teammate who is now an NFL television ana­lyst, used his Twitter account to support Burress: "My Thoughts and Prayers are with my man Plaxico and his family today!!!" 
Giants linebacker Antonio Pierce, who was with Burress the night of the incident, and former Giants linebacker Kawika Mitchell, now with the Buffalo Bills, re-tweeted the Strahan comment. 
The Giants, through spokesman Pat Hanlon, said, "This has been a trag­ic, sad, disappointing situa­tion from the beginning. Our concern has always been for Plax's welfare, and for his family, and that con-


CLASSIFIEDS 

tinues to be our overriding feeling." 
Burress hired a consult­ant to teach him how to use his time in prison produc­tively. 
Burress' big moment with the Giants came when he caught the winning touch­down over the previously undefeated New England Patriots in the final minute of the 2008 Super Bowl. 
The Giants released Burress in April, but the 32-year-old told ESPN he hopes to resume his NFL career when he completes his sentence. 
"When I get out, I'll be 33, not 43," Burress said in an interview broadcast in August. ''I'll still be able to run and catch. I'll still have the God-given ability to snag footballs; that's what I love to do. Of course, I want to play again." 
Gil Brandt, an analyst on NFL Sirius Radio and the former head of player per­sonnel for the Dallas Cowboys, said Burress won't be too old for a come­back after he's released. 
Burress will be eligible if a team wants him, as the NFL already has announced his suspension will be lifted upon completion of his sen­tence. 
His attorney, Benjamin Brafman, said previously that Burress was thinking of his family in taking the plea, but Brafman ques­tioned the fairness of the recommended prison sen­tence. 
"This was not an inten­tional criminal act," Brafman said the day of the plea. "In my judgment, a two-year prison sentence is a very severe punishment." 
Burress had been indicted on two counts of weapons possession and one count of reckless endangerment, but under a plea deal reached Aug. 20, he agreed to a sin­gle, lesser charge of attempted criminal posses­sion of a weapon. The gun was not licensed in New York or in New Jersey, where Burress lived. His license to carry a concealed weapon in Florida had expired in May 2008. 
Before sentencing Tuesday, Brafman called Burress "a fundamentally decent man." 
"This is a very real tragic case in many, many ways," Brafman said. 

AP Plaxlco Burress arrives for his sentencing, accompanied by his son Elijah and attorney Benjamin Brafman. Burress began his two-year prison term Tuesday. 
NCAA 

Isch named interim president 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -James Isch wants to fulfill Myles Brand's unfinished goals at the NCAA. 
For now, that's lsch's job. He was named Brand's inter­im replacement Tuesday, less than a week after the NCAA president died of pan­creatic cancer at age 6 7. 

Isch had been serving as the NCAA's vice president for administration and chief financial officer, overseeing the budget for the premier governing body of college athletics. 
"We will continue to focus on academic reform, the fis­cal stability of our organiza­tion and, most importantly, continue to emphasize the student-athlete," Isch said during a conference call with reporters. "Within the next few days, I will be reaching out to members of the athletic community and our staff as we chart our course." 
NCAA Executive Committee chairman Michael Adams said the decision was made Monday night. He gave no timetable for naming a new, full-time president. 

But until then, Isch is in charge and Adams does not expect the longtime NCAA executive to be merely a fig­urehead. Adams said several other candidates were con­sidered, though he did not name them, and that he wants Isch to pursue the kind of agenda Brand laid out. 
"He (lsch) served as liaison to the search group that brought Myles Brand into this organization, and if we don't get the financing right, all the other association goals would be moot. So the board has full confidence in Jim Isch's ability," Adams said. "We will move ahead with Myles' goals." 
Isch joined the NCAA's staff in 1998 after holding administrative posts at Arkansas, Kansas State and Montana State. 
Over the past nine months, as Brand underwent cancer treatment, Isch was one of four members on the presi­dent's cabinet who helped oversee the day-to-day tasks. The other three were Bernard Franklin, Greg Shaheen and Wally Renfro, all of whom hold vice presi­dent titles. 
The executive committee is not scheduled to meet again until Oct. 29, with details of the formal search almost certainly taking center stage. Among those believed to be top candidates are Franklin, Adams and University of Hartford presi­dent Walter Harrison. 
"Myles did talk with me about the people in the asso­ciation in which he had the most confidence," Adams said. "He mentioned four or five people in that regard. He did not offer a belief in who the next interim should be and, as Myles usually did, he trusted the decision of the committee." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES 



TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NO s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http:1/csap.nd. edu 
It wasn't the airplanes. It was beauty killed the beast. 
Professor Graff, Sorry, I didn't do the reading for today. Again. I'll work on it for next time. 
So they're showing me on television the detergent for getting out blood­stains ... Is this a violent image to anybody? Blood-stains? I mean, I, come on, you got aT-shirt with blood-stains all over it, maybe laun­dry isn't your biggest problem right now ... Maybe you oughtta get the harpoon out your chest first. 
My favorite's gouda. 
Screw Madden. It's all about the Tecmo Fritz, I promise I'm well prepared for this test. Sleep deprivation may come back to kill me though. Blame The Observer. 
"I got one hour of sleep last night. And it was on Jenn's couch." 
Apparently Irena has dirt on Buckley. Let's all convince her to share. 






OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, September 23, 2009 page 13 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Akron 1 2 North Carolina a 3 South Florida 5 4 Maryland 4 5 California 7 6 Wake Forest 2 7 UC Santa Barbara 9 8 Harvard 13 9 louisville 16 10 UCLA 12 11 Virginia 20 12 Duke 11 13 Indiana 8 14 Monmouth 19 15 Darthmouth 10 16 North Carolina St. 23 17 Creighton 6 18 St. John's 15 19 Boston U. 14 20 Kentucky 22 21 Michigan St. 18 22 Michigan RV 23 UC Irvine 17 24 Cal Sl. Northridge NR 25 Brown RV 
NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 

1 North Carolina 1 
2 Stanford 3 
3 UCLA 4 
4 Portland 2 
5 Florida St. 5 
6 Boston College 6 
7 Wake Forest 8 
8 California 9 
9 Santa Clara 12 

10 Florida 
7 

11 Virginia 10 12 Soulh Carolina 13 13 TexasA&M 17 14 NOTRE DAME 14 15 Purdue 
11 16 Georgia 15 17 Rutgers 16 18 Maryland 20 19 Indiana 22 20 Kansas RV 21 Ohio St. 
25 22 UCF 19 23 St. John's RV 24 San Diego 18 25 Connecticut RV 
NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Division I Coaches Poll 
team points 

1 Penn St. 1487 2 Texas 1439 3 Washington 1394 4 Hawaii 1295 5 Florida 1243 6 Nebraska 1143 7 Oregon 1070 8 Michigan 1015 g Minnesota 955 10 Stanford 943 
around the dial 
MLB 
Philadelphia at Florida 7 p.m., ESPN 
WNBA Playoffs 
Indiana at Detroit 8 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. ­No. 1 Florida kept six more players out of practice Tuesday because of flulike symptoms. 
Gators coach Urban Meyer said starting line­backer A.J. Jones was among those feeling ill. No player has had a con­firmed case of swine flu, but Meyer has expressed concern that the virus could ravage the defending national champions. 
Receivers coach Billy Gonzales, who was sent home the day before because he had a fever, returned to practice Tuesday wearing gloves and a mask. 
Also not at practice were defensive back Josh Evans, receiver Justin Williams, running back Mike Gillislee, defensive end Earl Okine and walk-on offensive lineman Shawn Schmieder. 
"We're all right," Meyer said. "We've just got to get ready. We're doing what we've got to do. What we can control, we control. Guys are wiping down everything. We're doing everything we can. I think we'll be all right." 
Meyer sounded as if he were coming down with something himself, but insisted he was just hoarse from "screaming too much" during practice. 
Previously, running back Jeff Demps, tight end Aaron Hernandez and defensive end Jermaine Cunningham were isolated because of flulike symp­toms. 

"They're still not 100 percent," Meyer said. "We had six others come down today with it, so we're bat­tling a little bit right now." 
The Gators all had a round of flu shots Sunday, about a week after one school official predicted that as many as 40 percent of students could catch swine flu this season. 
Team doctors and train­ers responded by placing hand sanitizer and preven­tion checklists all around the facility. 
When asked about the 
flu, linebacker Ryan Stamper jokingly coughed at reporters, then laughed. 
"We're doing a real good job with that, trying to keep guys from catching that," Stamper said. 
Also Tuesday, linebacker Brandon Spikes (Achilles' tendon) and receiver Deonte Thompson (ham­string) did not practice. Meyer was optimistic Thompson would be able to play Saturday at Kentucky. 
"They ran him again today and he's feeling real­ly good, but I'm just kind of cautious right now," Meyer said. "We didn't hit the mark last week, so I want to hit the mark this week." 
IN BRIEF 
Buccaneers' safety
Phillips out for season 
TAMPA, Fla. -Tampa Bay Buccaneers safety Jermaine Phillips will miss the remainder of the season with a broken left thumb. 
The Bucs made the announcement Tuesday, placing the eighth-year pro on injured reserve. He was hurt during Sunday's 33-20 loss to the Buffalo Bills. 
Losing Phillips weakens a struggling secondary that was already playing without starting safety Tanard Jackson, who was suspended for the ftrst four games of the regular season for violat­ing the NFL subtonic abuse policy. 
Phillips entered training camp as the projected starter at weakside line­backer, where the Bucs were replacing Derrick Brooks, who was released dur­ing the offseason. 
Phillips entered training camp as the projected starter at weakside line­backer, where the Bucs were replacing Derrick Brooks, who was released dur­ing the offseason. 

Rockies to start Cook on 
Friday against Cardinals 
DENVER -Aaron Cook finally feels like he's part of a pennant race. 
Colorado's ace right-hander learned Tuesday that he'll return to the mound Friday night against St. Louis, his ftrst start since going on the disabled list with a strained right elbow on Aug. 22. 
The Rockies entered their game Tuesday night against San Diego with a four-game lead over San Francisco in the NL wild-card race. 
Cook was an onlooker the last time the Rockies reached the playoffs, missing out on their incredible 21-1 run-up to the World Series in 2007 because of a strained side muscle that sidelined him for 11 weeks. 
He returned for Game 4 of the World Series, allowing three runs over six stellar innings but couldn't prevent Boston from sweeping the Rockies for the title. 
USC's Carroll hpoping for 
return of Barkley, Mays 
LOS ANGELES -Pete Carroll is hoping the return of perhaps Southern California's two most important players will put the Trojans back on track after last week's loss at Washington. 
Carroll is hopeful quarterback Matt Barkley and safety Taylor Mays will be able to play in Saturday night's home game against Washington State. Barkley is throwing again after missing last week with a bruised shoulder, while Mays is expected to practice Tuesday after sitting out his first college game with a knee injury. 
Carroll also is back at work on a familiar task for the Trojans coach in recent years. He has to restore his talented players' confi­dence after another early-season Pac-1 0 loss likely knocked them out of the national title race yet again. 

MLB 


Philles victorious on Blanton's gem 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Joe Blanton said he approached his matchup against Josh Johnson like any other, and for the Philadelphia Phillies, that worked fine. 
Blanton allowed two hits in seven shutout innings to out­pitch the Marlins' ace, and Philadelphia won the first game of a doubleheader Tuesday, 9-3. 
The victory reduced to five the Phillies' magic number for clinching the NL East. 
Blanton (11-7) struck out nine and walked two. Johnson (15-5) twice struck out the side and had 10 strikeouts in five innings, but he gave up seven hits and four runs. 
"If he doesn't give up any runs, or if he gives up a lot of runs, I still have to go out and pitch and stick with the same game plan either way," Blanton said. 
The Phillies' right-hander went six shutout innings in his last start to beat Washington. He said he had better stuff this time, thanks to a slider that had been unreliable of late. 
"I fmally found it a little bit," Blanton said. "It kind of came back. That was nice. Hopefully it stays." 
Blanton allowed no hits after a leadoff single in the second. 

Philadelphia's Raul Ibanez hit his 32nd homer. Jayson Werth and Ryan Howard each had a two-run single for the Phillies, who also scored on a wild pitch, two RBI groundouts and Jimmy Rollins' sacrifice fly. 
"I think they hit one ball hard, and it was tough to swallow," Johnson said. "I was trying to battle, make good pitches, and they just hit them. It was just one of those days." 
The Phillies won despite strik­ing out 16 times and going 2­for-11 with runners in scoring position. 
Facing Sergio Escalano, Florida scored three times in the eighth, with one play des­tined for the blooper reel. When Hanley Ramirez hit an RBI dou­ble, center fielder Shane Victorino chased it down, but when he tried to throw the ball toward the infield, it slipped from his hand and landed at his feet. 
Compounding the comedy, Florida's Nick Johnson could have easily scored but didn't see the bobble and stopped at third. Ramirez didn't see Johnson stop and nearly caught up with him at third before retreating safely to second. 
Clay Condrey pitched a per­fect ninth to complete a five-hit­ter. 

"Come to the Table ..... " 
----~•·d~~~ ~.~·~---­
......... 
Are you thinking about becoming Catholic'? 
Take time to learn moreabout the Catholic faith byjoining the RCIA process {Rite ofChristian Initiation ofAdults) 
----~••~•C~~~-·~~~-~~··-----­
RCIA is for those who are: unbaptized. OR baptized in another Christian tradition OR have been baptized Catholic and have 
received no other Sacraments 
rake time to discern the moat important part ofyour life: YOUR FAirH! 
DEADLINE TO SIGN UP 15 0CT06ER 1 °'11 
C-M 

Please contactT ami 5ch 
for more information. 


Fremantle, Australia 
Information Session 
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 5:30PM 140 DeBartolo Hall 
Students in the Colleges of AL & BA Only 


APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2009 APPLY ONLINE: www.nd.edulvois 
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Players concerned about performance of refs 
. 

NBA referees failed to make contract agreement with league; president ofbasketball operations confident in replacements 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The NBA's president of basketball oper· ations is confident replace· ment officials would perform well if they are needed when games begin. 
The players aren't so sure. 
The NBA and its referees union have failed to reach an agreement on a new con­tract, so the league will begin training replacements this week. Without a new deal soon, rhose replace· ments would be used in games starting Oct. 1. 
The officiating was criti­cized during the last lockout in 1995, but Joel Litvin said Tuesday it will be better this time because the replace­ments are from the WNBA and NBA Development League and familiar with the NBA program. 
"These referees are sort of part of the extended family, which is what makes it dif· ferent from '95. The vast majority are either D-League referees, they're WNBA ref­erees, they've been to our summer leagues and been trained by our managers," Litvin said. "They've been to our tryouts. 
"So unlike in '95, when we were selecting more or less strangers to be replace­ments, these are people that we know and have been working with for several years, which is a reason why we feel pretty good about how they will perform when cials. No further talks are they're on the floor." scheduled after they broke 
But Lakers guard Derek down last week. Fisher, president of the play­"Our preference is always ers' association, said the to have our regular referees NBA's refer~s are the best on the floor," Litvin said. in the world "They're the and called for best in the a quick resolu­"Players throughout world. So tion, saying not the leauge are whether that having them on h a p p e n s
concerned that the

the floor is remains to be 
"unaccept­use ofreplacement seen." able." referees could com-Training 
"Players camp opens
promise the integrity 

throughout the Thursday, and
ofour game.,

league are con­the league cerned that the hopes to use of replace-. emerge with
Derek Fisher 

ment referees 50-60 officials
Lakers' Guard and

could compro­to comprise the 
President of the Player's

mise the replacemen~ integrity of our Association roster. Most ­games," Fisher perhaps all ­said in a state-will come from ment released by the play­within leagues the NBA over­ers' association the day sees, a key difference from before they were scheduled the heavily criticized offici­to meet again with league ating during the previous officials for negotiations lockout. toward a new collective bar­Officials from the CBA gaining agreement. were used 14 years ago, so 
"Our fans deserve the best the NBA had no control over product that we can put on their training. Plus, early the court and that includes season games were officiated having the best referees. by two-person crews, as Anything less is unaccept­opposed to the three that able to our union and our have long been in place. members." Litvin also points out that 
However, the league and the game h·as changed from the referees' union are still the physical style that ruled far apart on proposals in the mid-1990s. That, com­involving changes to the ref­bined with the advances the erees' pension and sever­J.eague has made in the ance packages, as well as a observation of officials, has plan to develop younger offi-Litvin believing the quality 
Thomas F. Juliano, Ph.D Outreach Taam Laadar NSF Graduata Rosaarch FlllowshipOparations G81tar "  
Craatinu aCompatitiva Application for tha NSF Gradate Research Fellowship  
Tuasday, Saotambar 28,20081:30-3:00 pm McKanna Hall Room 100 ·for mora informati• www.uraduataschool.nd.adu  

of play won't suffer this success with replacement time. officials. There are currently 
"We're confident that we 17 on the roster, including will pretty quickly be able to recent NBA finals referees identify any referees who we Joe Crawford, Danny don't think can perform this Crawford and Ken Mauer, job, and likewise we'll pretty who began their careers as quickly identify those that replacements during work are the stronger ones and we stoppages. will schedule those referees The NBA also confirmed the most," Litvin said. "So I that Robbie Robinson and guess ·for those reasons, we Micheal Henderson, former don't expect-we don't view NBA refs who were fired by this as a situation that will the league, are among those be like '95." expected at camp. League 
Nor is Litvin concerned officials have taken great with using officials from the steps to praise the work of WNBA, whose athletes are their officials, particular!>: smaller and not as athletic since the betting scandal as NBA players. He said involving former referee Tim many also referee D-League Donaghy that brought their or summer league games profession under scrutiny, and the rules interpretations and won't pretend the are similar. replacements can truly take 
The league has had some their place. 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 
2 1/2 Baths 
Free Internet 
Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher 
Security System 
located Close to Notre Dame 
$300 Signing Bonus for 2010 -2011 
Lea$e mun be $ign" before October 10,2009 
Lease for only $350 per month, perstudent! 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
call {574) 234-2436 
-


, presents 

Keeping the Wolf from the Door: Remembering El Salvador's Martyrs in America, the University and tlze Church 
Michael E. Lee Fordham University 
Wf?dnesday. September 23. 2009 4:30p.m. Room 207, DeBartolo Hall 

Shutouts 
continued from page 20 
outscored their opponents by a combined score of 14-0. 
Despite the seemingly lop­sided margins in all of Notre Dame's performances, coach Waldrum does­n't think that the shutouts 
"I think in the losses 
raise much the game so cause for con­that we got shut out in. we shifted cern early in some players
we lost to very good 
the season. up and tried
teams."

"Somebody to tie the had brought game. It was that to my Randy Waldrum similar in the attention Stanford
Irish coach 
recently and I hadn't even realized that," Waldrum said. ''I'm not sure if it's a fluke or whether or not there's a trend there." 
One of the main reasons that Waldrum isn't concerned about the early shutout trend revolves around the caliber of the teams that the Irish have lost to this season, as North Carolina, Stanford and Santa Clara are currently ranked No. 1, 2 and 9, respec­tively, in the 
that we've won we were supposed to win," Waldrum said. "Those are fantastic teams [that the Irish have lost to] where you could play your best game ever and still lose." 
Waldrum believes that some of the shutout losses may have occurred as a result of the team's relatively young core being somewhat unfa­miliar with playing from behind. 
"I think a little bit of it is where last year we had a fan­tastic year," Waldrum said. "Six of our ten field players this year are freshmen and sophomores and they only played from behind four min­utes all of last season, so this is a new experience for them and we're still trying to find our way a little bit." 
In the games themselves, the Irish tried to adjust their strategy late in the game against both Santa Clara and Stanford to try to create offensive opportunities and tie the games. 
"We played well against 
Santa Clara," Waldrum said. "We were down [by one goal] late in 
game," 
Waldrum 

likened those contests to comparable con­tests for other teams on the Notre Dame campus in recent years, including the football team and women's basketball team, where the teams played extremely well but came up just short in the end. 
"We want to schedule good teams early so you can see where your strengths and weaknesses are so you can adjust 
current "I think we played three for the 
NSCAA poll. playoffs,"
really, reall good games. 
"I think in Waldrum 
the losses like when the women's said. "It's that we got basketball team plays like when shut out in, Notre
Tennessee or UConn." 
we lost to Dame foot­very good ball plays teams, and Randy Waldrum USC every 
the games Irish coach year and a 
few years 
ago when 

they had Brady Quinn, although they played a fantastic game, they still lost." 
"I think we played three really, really good games," Waldrum continued, "like when the women's basketball team plays Tennessee or UConn." 
With the majority of the Big East portion of its schedule still ahead, 
Notre Dame has a chance to beat some quality competition before the postseason starts, where the Irish will undoubt­edly see teams like North Carolina, Stanford and Santa Clara. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

Belles 
continued from page 20 
Martyna Mierzwa, an impressive freshman. led all Saint Mary's golfers at last week's Jamboree after shooting a 76. 
Mierzwa's stroke total tied for the lowest score in the outing with Trine's Katlyn Pero. 
Senior captain Perri Hamma earned third in the field at the Medalist Golf Club after posting a 79, the best score of her Saint Mary's career. 

The BelltJs hope juniors Mary Kate Boyce and Rosie O'Connor can replicate their respectie rounds of 81 from the Medalist Golf Club. 
The two tied for fourth at the first Jamboree of the season. 
Today's Jamboree tees off at 1 p.m. 
If Saint Mary's pulls off another win it would put them at a significant advantage over their MIAA opponents hal~ay through the regular season. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 

1) 2) 3)  Information Session Trinity College Dublin, Ireland Study at prestigious Trinity College Dublin Advice on how to complete the Trinity hard copy application Immerse into an Irish University and still be part ofa Notre Dame Community VVednesday,Sept.23,2009 6:00pm 117 Hayes Healy Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,.2009 FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2010-2011 APPLJCATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDU/-OIS  


l.J N I•Vt(. RS.I'I·v C::)F N<>·t·t~.l<: I>A !VIE. IN~l'EI~NA'TI<>NAL PR<>C;I~A!VI IN PA.R_IS, FR.A.NCE ACADEIVIIC YEAR 2010-11 I N J<~<»l~ IV1 A·~~~ I <>N IV1 F:: F:: •.•.,I N <; '\.'\lednesday., SEPTEIVIBER 23., 6:00pm 201 DBRT S .... I~UI>V IN T.HF: lVI<>ST BEAU....I""IFUI..... CI..I"'V IN ,...l.. HF.: WORLI=-! APPLICATI<>NS: h t:t:p:I /vvvv"Y\1. n d _ed u/~o is  

Wednesday, September 23, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
VIOLENCE PREVENTION 
IN I TIVE 
A TIME TO BE SILENT & A TIME TO SPEAK: ACTIVE BYSTANDER-TRAINING 
Are you interested in working to prevent rape and sexual assault at Notre Dame? 
Are you seeking tools to help a friend or survivor ofrape orsexual assault? 
Do you want to be an active bystander on campus? 
WHAT: 
RAPE & SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION EDUCATION FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
• 
Interactive training session with dinner provided 

• 
For students interested in working to prevent rape and sexual assault on campus 

• 
Including role plays and small group discussion 

• 
Featuring Annie Envall, Assistant Director at SOS of Madison Center, the Rape Crisis Center of St. Joseph County 

• 
Program will address: 

• 
How to obtain "consent" 

• 
How to be an active bystander 

• 
How to help a friend or survivor 




WHEN: 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2009; 5:30-8:00PM 
WHERE: 
NOTRE DAME ROOM, LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
HOW: 
RSVP BY EMAIL TO grc@nd.edu NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, 9/24 at 5pm! 
GRC~ 
gender relations center 
s.u Wfottil:l$~ • itC.a.i.«-Jy • ar.:o-AJ.~4w • 4,..6\l.:eKO 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 23, 2009 
Injuries 
continued from page 20 
today. He's got a little bit of an ankle. lf he went out there today, he wouldn't be full speed. (I'll) give the other running backs the reps today and build him up to be full-go by game time." 
One injured running back who Weis did not expect to return Saturday, though, was senior full­back James Aldridge. Aldridge hurt his shoulder in the season opener against Nevada and has not played since. 
"I think what I'm planning on doing, even though he wants to try to play this week and try to play next week, I'm leaning more toward holding him this week and next week so that I get a full three weeks," Weis said. "With the bye week coming up after that and having him ready for whoever we play after the bye." 
Sophomore wide receiver Michael Floyd's season-ending surgery Monday to repair a bro­ken clavicle was the biggest injury news of the week. Tuesday, Weis said Floyd has been han-

The 2009-10 season is the first ers, I think our guys realize that in which Kubinski's recruits will it's their time now. We're excited 
Kubinski 

play a major for this season continued from page 20 
roll on the and for the team, and he seasons to
"/ think it,s important to 

team's success, but the team's believes that the come. We knew
have a perspective on

well being," senior Carl Santos­program will it would take a Ocampo said. "In such a chal­once again turn where we,ve come from lot of hard lenging sport that sometimes can the corner and work and
as a program.

mentally get you down, move back to patience and (Kubinski) makes sure the team the top of the even some is always in high spirits." Big East. Jim Kubinski bumps along 
Individual successes have also "This year is Irish coach the way but I'm been a major part of Kubinski's really the first proud of how term. Forme,r Irish star Cole year we're this group has Isban was named to the PING going to see (the recruits from always held their heads high, All-Midwest Region team three 2007) step up and compete worked hard and are now ready years in a row under Kubinski, favorably against the strongest to win." and fifth-year senior Josh teams nationally," Kubinski said. Sandman was given similar hon­"With the experienced seniors Contact Eric Prister at ors in 2008. we have and those younger play-eprister@nd.edu 
MLB 

Greinke shuts down BoSox in Royals win 
defense, junior Meghann Rose filled the stat book with 23 digs. 
Olivet 
continued from page 20 
Three kills and a service ace later, the Belles finished the match off with a 25-14 third set victory. 
Senior Lorna Slupczynski led the way with 10 kills and 10 digs. Junior Andrea Sasgen and Bodien chipped in on offense with nine blocks apiece. On 
The Belles, who are now in the middle of the MIAA stand­ings at 2-3, will get a break from conference play as they travel to take on a struggling Manchester team who are cur­rently 3-11 on the season. The match will begin at 7 p.m. on Thursday. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Zack Greinke bolstered his Cy Young Award credentials by holding Boston to two hits in six score­less innings, leading the Kansas City Royals to a 5-1 victory over the Boston Red Sox on Tuesday night. 
Greinke is 3-0 with a 0.26 ERA in his past five starts, allowing 18 hits and one earned run in 35 innings. With the stingy stretch, Greinke has low­ered his major league-leading ERA to 2.08. 
Greinke (15-8) became the first Royals pitcher to win at least 15 games in a season since Paul Byrd won 17 in 2002. 
Byrd {1-2) was the losing pitcher Tuesday. 
Greinke's record likely would be more impressive if he had better run support. He has failed to earn a win in six starts in which he allowed none or one run. 
Dustin Pedoria doubled in the first and Victor Martinez sin­gled in the sixth, extending his hitting streak to 21 games, for the only hits against Greinke. Greinke walked three and struck out five, bringing his season total to 229, which is dling his situation with as much maturity as one could expect from a sophomore. 

"He thinks he is a coach now," Weis said with a laugh. "He's accepted this role. He's dealing with it [and] I think he's going to be a great asset for us because he's into the game. He's just not one of those guys who is in the tank because he's hurt." 
time. It's not practice squad, it's not a show team any more." 
Weis also spoke Tuesday about his plans to improve the defense, which has given up a combined 64 points over the past two games since shutting out the Wolf Pack. 
"I think that when you start giv­ing up some yardage to some 
plays, like was 
happening in 

The new depth chart currently lists senior Robby  7Floyd,s] dealing with [his injury] ... He,sjust not one of those guys  the last couple games in par­ticular, you start losing  
Parris and jun­ who is in the tank  some  confi­ 
ior Duval Kamara as co­ because he,s hurt.,,  dence," Weis said. "Not nec­ 
starters  at  essarily in the  
Floyd's old "Z"  Charlie Weis  scheme or your  
wide receiver  Irish coach  teammates, but  
position. Junior  just  on  your  
Golden Tate is  own play mak­ 
still listed the  ing ability. So I  

starter on the opposite side, but think the number one thing I'm sophomore Deion Walker has going to work on today, and the moved up to second behind Tate, coaches are going to follow my along with freshman Shaq Evans. lead, is making sure we start get­
"Both those guys bring some­ting back to playing with some thing different to the table," Weis confidence." said. "Deion's a little bit more experienced. Shaq is very explo­Contact Chris Michalski at sive. They know that now is the jmichal2@nd.edu 

Quality Off-Campus Houses Now leasing for 2010 •2011 
•
Close to campus •Washers &dryers 

•
Student neighborhoods •Dishwashers 

•
Security s~stems • 2 ·10 bedrooms 


•lawn service 

We have over 100 properties-see them at www.kramerhouses.com 
fur more information call 
{574)234·2436 

second in the American League. 
The Royals batted around in a five-run first, which included Alex Gordon's two-run, two-out single. The first five batters reached base off Byrd and all scored. Byrd walked Billy Butler and Mike Jacobs on eight straight balls. Jacobs walked with the bases loaded. 
Callaspo, who had three hits and a walk, singled home Mitch Maier with the second run of the inning. 
Byrd settled down after the first, going 6 2-3 innings and not allowing another run. He yielded five runs on nine hits and four walks. 
Byrd exited in the seventh with the bases loaded after a single and two walks, but Mark Teahen flied out to center to end the inning. 
The Red Sox scored their run without a hit in the eighth off Roman Colon, who walked Jacoby Ellsbury and Pedroia. After a double steal, Ellsbury scored on Martinez's grounder. Ellsbury tops the majors with 63 stolen bases. 
Joakim Soria was summoned for final out after David Ortiz walked and Casey Kotchman reached on a Butler error. Soria logged his 28th save in 31 opportunities. 
Information Session on Study Abroad Programs in Angers, France 
Wednesday, September 23, 5:30p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 For Academic Year 2010~2011 Fall 2010 or Spring 2011 More information available at www.nd.edu/-ois/ 

Wednesday, September 23, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 "Must've been unto itself 
something _" 
38 Like "King Lear"

5 Brown fur 
41 Keep an appointment 

10 Is shy, in a way 
14 Game Gear company 
42 When juillet and aout occur

15 Philanderer, in slang 43 Get rid of 17 Our genus 44 Vacant, in a way 18 Madre's 45 Driver's electric hermanos convenience 19 To this point, in 50 Old Ford model verse 
51 Like 26-Down 20 Intravenous 
52 Frances hookup 
Hodgson Burnett 21 Hamid Karzai, kid-lit novel ... starting in 2004 and a hint to 21-, 24 Uppity type 
26-and 45­Across

25 Org. concerned with firing 59 Piltdown man, practices? notably 26 One of four 60 Longtime label generations in a for 38-Down photo 61 Like a hottie 34 Iranian cash 62 Rocker Quatro 35 Occasion for a 
63 Father proctor 
leper priest of 36 Overly Molokai 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

64 "Ain't it the truth!" 65 Siesta time, maybe 
66 Has-_ (ones who are washed up) 
67 Like some sums 
Down 1 Wirehair of film 2 Son of Eric the 
Red 3 All worked up 4 Stock 
transaction made to claim a tax deduction 
5 Court worker, for 
short 6 Sluggishness 7 Mobster's code 
8 Dots over eyes? 9 New Mexico 
skiing locale 10 "Mercy!" 11 Dog-eared 12 Discharge 13 Conciliatory 
bribe 16 Promo container 
that's a twofer 22 See 39-Down 23 Apothecary 
weight 26 "Peer Gynt" 
composer 27 Gaucho's gear 28 What "-vore" 
means 29 Like some ions: Abbr. 30 Early sixth­
century date 31 Patriot Allen 32 Nary a soul 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Peter A. Collins 
33 Air controller's 44 Res _loquitur 54 Kvetcher place 
46 "Dynasty" vixen 
55 White coat38 Jerry Garcia's 
47 Infant's bodysuit
band, for short 56 Moore of film 
48 Raising a stink?
39 With 22-Down, 57 Deleted, withstinging insects 49 Hammond "out" products40 Hubbub 58 Part of 41 Shows disdain 52 Historic site Rockefeller Ctr.'s 
for option address
43 Snorkel and 53 Give a paddling, colleagues: Abbr. maybe 59 V-J Day pres. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Ct:t.FBRJTWS !lORN ON TI.US OA'\·': Tom Fdlml, 12; S<i>!t Haiu,48; JoM kit, 51. N•ck C:tw, 52 
Happy Uirthday: Strive for perfectiou. Change is upon you ami the more a<'reptmg you are, the laster yo10 will succeed. Now is'"'' tlw tome to dwell on llw I"'SI or (,,;u-uJ<wing forward. Mtion ctmpkd with confidcocc is all it will ~'lk to jumpstart your p.oab.lt's tnue to t:lk<' contrt>! You.rnnmb<'I'S ltre 7,11. 16,28 . .lL J.f. 46 
ARlEe<; •M,.r<:h 2l-Aprlll9l: Get serious about your ;p<'ndiup habits and )'Oil c-.m rednt~ y<~.lr ovedlCad ..lmpuh.: siK>pping ha~ lo slop '""l a ~t budget put uno plat'<' ·n~e d'tanges you make now will l$\d t<;> at>:tter hh:st)•k in the l<>u~ nm. *** 
TAURUS (At•rii211·May llh: Callinj! the shots JS in your b.."l ml~reSI and will help you set the Sll!lldard for the ftllltre. Love i• <>tl the nsc ami a social evetd or actiVity wdll~elp ~\>U ~et closer t<> oon~eone you respt:ct and a<bnire *1f * 
GF.MlNl !May ll·,lnne WI! Dutil~"'" :myonc a""'""' to pick on you. Dt.> whatever ymt 
;ur restl<IMibk tor (Jioickly a11d dfidcmly, Ymt c•u exp<...-• to be h!«ott<•<l fot wb;u~·n-r ll"'" WI'\»!~.. ll<ovc ymtr ansW<'I'S "'ady '""I dom'I !ell\•" room ftll<!!'l<lr. *** 
CANCER Uune !I·July 12): Stick dose to home aud make some al!cr-~tion> that "illlwlp \'011 be moo-e dlkietll. Roman.:<• ts in tlte Wll':> and shmtld be sdtednled ill for the ~vetlill2 iu,.m; A short h11sines.< tnp wilt open up new pombilill<'S. ***** · 
Lt;o tJuly l..~Aug.121: Avoid doin~t anyrhml!t in"'"'"''. You have to cutl><t<'k. not Sp<'lkl 
frhok>ll>iy. S.:ttle for wbars availabk: iuH~ad of stti\'in~ for tile itnpo>>tbk Sott~<.'<.111C will cou<kum y<~• il' yoo are luzy or totl impartial ** 
VUtGO (AUJt. 2J·Setll. z:n: Once )'<lll baw eot<il>li>bed your own p<mliml, Y''" ClUI """""'" plish tbintts yon bave alway• wam.:.i to do \o:olfdlon; will be rewar<k•d and your rottfi dctKe b<"'"~'L Oi;cuss }>)llr fe<.olings with wmool!<' yot• c-.;w almut. **** 
UURA lSetlt. 2:~0e1. 12): Yon may h;we to leave Sl>ltle<~>e bdnnd or ;rorclt for a new )lf<lttp l<l ct>llalx>n>l<" with if !bill!'" liD:'n't tnovinp. f~t.r <"'"")!It You will face opposition tf yon are tt><> bold or pnsby. Mal><: your Wllrk or <'•l<kavO!" iUJcn.>stit:f¥ :uu! ~~"' W<lll'' h"•e to a><k f<lr fav"" or l>elp .*** 
lit'ORI'lO (Od. 2.1-Nov. 21.1: Dunllet """""'"" .:lse's wants nnd II•~• '"'ll"'" ymor <lW!l or those ofllw JXlople you feel are worthy of y.;~~1r hdp Yon will find rutswers toll~<: qu''' 
titltl~ thai have ht~n o:uthfS.ing you for sume time. Get involv~...~ m St.ll1JCihtn~ umtStm:l 
*** 
SAGITLUUlJS <No~.12-ll«. 21): Yon may n<ll wmlll<> ~oni'mm a simanou you face hut. hy~"oidiug 1!. you will end np iu a. much W<>rse fJ<l;Uion. Face your .temons lte:t<l 011 with !act~ a.td hf'ltresthal c:mnot he<kmed. Set the rerord >trai!!ln ''"'l mo\'e on *k* 
CAI'IUCORN ilk'<'. 22·.1:m.l9): Get oma11d cdcbratc. You've pm so nmch to be r.hanldul for and, if you let peopk-your j)(ISJU\'< out!O<>K, ideas and pl<11os. you "ill be offel'l.'<l all lllc lwlpyou t""-'<1. Apartto:~>hip that iJ; lll!p<ltl<mt !<> yonncx'<ls a little m111unnl'. **** 
AQL\Rll'S <Jan. 211-J'eb.l8}: 1'ak»e a walt and""' attitude.<;!>ecwlly when ckallu$ "'ilh tnt.':Uds, n•lafiV(~..~ qr l~t..ighbnrs. By jtnt~pill~ to ~'otlclu.~.Jrm~, ynu an." likely to 11Us..<.t 'S<'ltll<.:duntt bcudki<IL Lht<,, to th<' ;~!vke giv.:;n. ** 
l'lSCf;S !F'cb.I9-Ma...,h 2()): The 111ore<hwrsc yoo arc. tl~e more l"'"'''k you \\111 "'""t to 
loonparl!k.'!'Shtps. D<.•n' be ah-•i<l I<> ~hanf!.~ yotor mtnd at the L1SI minute At the <~ld of lhc day. you can ted ~ll)(l about where )~lll are ** *** 
IUrth<la~· Bahy: You are trearive. "'''art ~nd detenuito:d I(• dn y<>t~r b61 Yt>U l~<ve pas>ton. 
willtx>wer :m<l a ueed to excel. You are :;.:non;; minded. t'<llll<mf>latiw ami <~>JeCIIW 
Eugt"l~ir~·-~ ~lHt si~t~.": ~u~en~ahHi .f.'Om..ffJr ~'XJt~fld;:ntkrJ l't.m.-sY.ltutiom·. m";<·ftfJU~:·e .t'Omlt'tlj!t'fiidld.'fi/fJr l-:ug.c11ia');: bl(J-J!, a.{ff(>t.t<fl.'it't' ...Y,m.fhr fi.m 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK

SCHAD & FREUDE 

'J:.'tvt 
P...€.ALV·{ ~ 0 If. ra.. "f 
A~OU'i 
, Wt-fAi \_. KA'PP£N£D ••• 
·, ... so r se;Nr" ; you. THIS 
! \ F r-c6 eo ou... li'A.~ s s lOr (::di. 
'----·-~-.~-----· 
G3J! 

JUMBLE 

JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
Anothet round ofoolt lightening 
I 

tWALCOL I 
Yesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: 
WHY HE NEEDED A BANDAGE WHEN HE 
GOT HIS 
WEEKI-YCHE:CK. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) FAVOR FLAME WEAPON RADIUS What the lazy student said when he flunked !he spelling test -WORDS FAIL ME 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________ State _______ Zip._______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS 
page 20 
MEN's GoLF 

Kubinski brings Irish to national prominence 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 

Entering his sixth season as the head coach for the Irish, Jim Kubinski has already made a major impact on the program, and looks to continue building for the future. 
Kubinski was given the posi­tion half-way through the 2004­05 season, inheriting a very skilled team that went on to claim the Big East Conference title that season, but saw flaws in the structure of the program. 
"From my very first meeting here, my focus has been to instill pride, discipline, confidence and good work habits," Kubinski said. "When I took over, a num­ber of practices that I took for granted as necessities were not in place here." 

Kubinski began putting those practices in place as soon as he arrived, and the Irish went on to win a second straight Big East championship in 2006. 
"We've worked hard to struc­ture practices, create class schedules conducive to playing and practicing as a team, build chemistry where it's about "us" rather than T or 'my' and sever­al seemingly little pieces that, when pieced together, have had a huge impact in preparing us to make the jump from a more regionalized program to a national program," Kubinski said. 
The Irish golf' program has substantially evolved over the past 10 years, due in large part to the coaching ability and recruiting efforts of' Kubinski. He was nominated for the 2007 GOLF Magazine Top 100 Teachers list, which places his name in conversation as one of the best young coaches in the country. 

"I think it's important to have a perspective on where we've come from as a program," Kubinski said. "Just 10 years ago, we had only one scholarship for men's golf, no championship Warren Golf Course, no Rolfs Varsity Building and a travel schedule that was mainly limited to the Midwest. In 10 short years, we now have our full NCAA complement of' scholar­ships, the very best practice facilities around, a fantastic and championship golf course and a schedule that sees us compete against the very best teams in the country and on the very best 
FOOTBALL 

Twists and Turns 
Clausen, Allen ready for Purdue Saturday 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 

Injured quarterback Jimmy Clausen's MRI Monday came back negative Irish coach Charlie Weis said Tuesday. Weis expects the junior to play against Purdue Saturday. 
''I'll probably hold him from practice today," Weis said. "So what I'll do today is I'll give Dayne [Crist] the majority of the reps, and I'm going to give [Evan] Sharpley some reps too to knock off a little bit of' the rust on him." 
Junior running back Armando Allen also suffered a foot injury Saturday, tweaking his right ankle. 
"The [practice] pattern for him is going be very similar [to Clausen]," Weis said. "Hold him 
see INJURIES/page 18 courses." 


It is a team-oriented focus that defines the success that Kubinski and the Irish have had through­out his tenure. During his coach­ing career, Kubinski's teams have recorded the top four sin­gle-season stroke averages in school history and nine of the 12 best single-round scores. In addition, Kubinski's teams have recorded 15 wins over Top 25 teams and have been ranked as high as No. 12. 
"It is evident that (Kubinski) truly cares not only about the 
see KUBINSKI/page 18 
SMC GOLF 

Belles have high hopes 
for tourney 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 

After winning the first of four MIAA Jamborees of' the season, the No. 13 Saint Mary's will be looking for its second victory as it heads to Hope College's home course, Macatawa Legends Country Club. 
The Belles opened the sea­son with a stellar win last week at the Medalist Golf' Club. 
The team broke the school record for best combined score after shooting a 317, 15 strokes ahead of second place, MIAA-rival Olivet. 
As the Belles head into today's matchup, they will be counting on repeat perform-
see BELLES/page 16 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish get used to shutouts 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 

Eight games into its young 2009 season, every contest No. 14 Notre Dame has played in has ended in a shutout. 
However, unlike the 2008 squad, which was 8-0 after its first eight games, this year's Irish find themselves at 5-3 one game into their conference season. 
In their three losses this season, opponents have outscored the Irish by a com­bined score of 10-0. On the other hand, in their five vic­tories, the Irish have 
see SHUTOUTS/page 16 


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Senior defender Amanda Clark slows a North Carolina attack in the Irish 6-0 defeat Sept. 4. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's sweeps Olivet to reach .500 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team concluded a stretch of five straight MIAA matches with a bang. The Belles had only one win with three losses in that stretch coming into their final match, but managed to sweep Olivet College 3-0 at Angela Athletic Facility on Tuesday. 
The win brings their overall record to the .500 mark at 5-5, and drops the Comets to a dis­mal 3-9 on the season. The Belles came out aggressively on offense, taking an early 7-1 lead. With freshman Stephanie Bodien's five kills in six attempts, Olivet could not climb back in it and dropped the first set 25-14. 
The second set mirrored the first as the Belles took the lead early and did not relinquish it, winning 25-18. 
The Comets showed some resiliency and came out strong in the third set. Led by senior Kim Travis' outside hitting, the Comets managed a 13-13 tie. The Belles, backed by the home crowd, subdued the comeback and rattled off seven straight points to take a 20-13 lead. 
see 0 LIVETIpage 18 








