
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Kevin Healey, 20, dies after cancerbattle 
Sarin sophomore remembered by friends and rector as courageous and inspirational 
SMC junior wins world dance prize 
Deirdre Robinett takes top spot at Irish dance contest in Philadelphia 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's College junior Deirdre Robinett danced her way to the top prize at the 2009 World Irish Dancing Championships after the com­petition was brought to the United States. 
"I have never gone into a competition expecting to win, but this year I tried to do everything I could to prepare myself," Hobinett said. 
The weeklong competition, 
which  is  usually  held  in  
Courtesy of Kathleen Grannan Ireland, Saint Mary's College junior Deirdre Robinett, top, is awarded first  kicked  off  in  
prize at the 2009 World Irish Dancing Championships in Philadelphia.  see DANCER/page 6  



Panel examines role of women at ND 
By NORA KENNEY News Writer 
Notre Dame has come a long way toward making its campus more welcoming for women, according to the par­ticipants at a panel discus­sion held Friday to help com­memorate the 20th anniver­sary of the Gender Studies Program. 
In the 1970s, as English professor Sonia Gernes set up for class, a male student mistook her for a student. 
"He said, 'Girl, you can't put your books there. That's where the professor sits,"' said Gernes, recollecting the incident. 
A panel of Joan Aldous, sociology professor, Ava Preacher, associate dean in the College of Arts and Letters and Janet Kourany, philosophy professor, dis­cussed the progress made since women were first admitted to the University. 
Gernes said that in the mid­1970s, female faculty mem­bers had to be "very brave women who basically gath­
see GENDER/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Faculty Senate supports Jenkins 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Faculty Senate approved a statement Wednesday support­ing University President Fr. John Jenkins' decision to invite President Barack Obama to deliver the 2009 Commencement address and award him with an honorary degree. 
"The Faculty Senate affirms that the invitation to deliver the Commencement address and to receive an honorary degree reflects the University's tradition of honoring our nation's leaders and encourag­ing dialogue with them on issues important to the extend­ed University community and to the nation," the statement said. 
The statement noted that Obama holds views both con­sistent and inconsistent with the teachings of the Catholic Church and said the group respects both those who sup­port and oppose Obama's visit. 
But in the statement, Faculty Senate urged the campus com­munity and outside groups to respect the Commencement ceremony on May 17. 
"A number of outside groups have suggested that they would use the Commencement cere­monies to advance their posi­
see SENATE/page 6 

ByJENN METZ News Writer 
Notre Dame sophomore Kevin Healey died early Friday morn­ing after a courageous two and a half-year battle with cancer, and according to his rector, "he made the most of every minute he was here." He was 20. 
Healey, who was a resident of Sorin College, will be remem­bered by his roommates, friends and his rector Fr. Jim King as someone who has left a mark on Notre Dame. 
"Kevin fought as valiantly against cancer as anyone I've known for nearly two and a half years," King said. "His lifelong By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Junior Daniel Collins was named the Notre Dame lep­rechaun for the 2009-10 year after serving as the junior varsity leprechaun this year. 
As leprechaun, Collins said he plans on returning to the "old school spirit that every­one talks about in our glory days." 
Collins would like to issue a "call to arms" to the student body to "really support the teams and just give it their all." 
"I think The Shirt says it best when it says 'Defend our 
dream was to be at Notre Dame." Healey was diagnosed with 
osteosarcoma, a type of malig­nant bone cancer, in December 2006. Over the past week, his health deteriorat­ed and Healey died at home at 
The news was first posted on kevinhealey.com, a Web site run by his family as a place for updates on Healey's condition. It 




Leprechaun announced for next year 
Daniel Collins plans to take role back to "old school spirit" from Notre Dame's "glory days" 
also serves as a place for the exchange of prayers and thoughts for the Healey family. 
A small plaque reading "Reserved for Kevin Healey, '11" has been attached to the seat closest to the altar in the Sorin Chapel, where Healey sat when serving Mass, King said in an e­mail sent to Sorin residents. 
Healey's roommates and friends from Sorin described his courage and perseverance in the face of his illness and said in a joint letter that he "fully embod­ied the Notre Dame spirit." 
"He never surrendered in his fight against cancer and he firm­ly believed in the miraculous healing power of God," the let­ter, authored by nine of Healey's roommates and close friends, said. 
"Kevin Healey was the most inspirational person I have ever had the privilege of knowing," sophomore John Kelley said. "He simply refused to be defeat­ed by any challenge thrown his way. His spirit is something we can all look up too." 
Kelley organized transporta­tion to and from the Cleveland area so friends could attend the funeral services. 
Sophomores Byung Jo "Victor" Yoon and Nicholas Bosler said their friend was the definition of strength. 
"If I was asked to define 
see HEALEY/page 4 

Honor,"' Collins said. "I think that this is the perfect oppor­tunity for us, the fans, to defend our honor of Notre Dame and really just capture that respect that we had in the past." 
While 15 men tried out for the position of leprechaun, only six made it to the finals, where each contestant had three minutes to conduct his own pep rally. 
The final tryout was used to simulate the pep rally for the season opener against Nevada, so Collins said he gave a speech and started 
see COLLINS/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER 600 people walk in Relay for Life, raising $44,000 page 3 • Bruton drafted by Broncos page 24 • Viewpoint page 11 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Confessions of a nerd 

Female. Age 18. Brown hair. Brown eyes. Likes long walks on the beach, candle-lit dinners and watching sun­sets. 
I used to cheerlead, babysit, and want to grow up to be a princess. Megan Loney Oh, and one more 
thing: I am a News Writer nerd. I have been a closet nerd for some time, but I have only recently decided to be open about my social orientation. No, I do not own a pocket-protector, play chess, nor do my friends belong to a Dungeons and Dragons club. Truthfully, I am a lame nerd. I am not one of those girls that watches "The Hills" or follows the 
plot lines of "Gossip Girl" ardently. These new shows just are not for me; give me fantasy and science fiction 
over reality television any day! 
Instead of watching the dubbed "teen dramas," I spend my Monday nights anxiously watching the stories of individuals with special powers who are currently being hunted by the government as my roommates roll their eyes and leave the room, lest they directly witness my nerdiness. 
In all defense of my nerd tenden­cies, I was exposed to many of them by others. My dad has several science fiction and fantasy movies that he would watch with my brother and me since we were kids. And, I blame my best friend Kerry for my recent addic­tion to "Battlestar Galactica"; Lee Adama is currently the background of my laptop. 
I have not been able to pinpoint the exact reason why I am drawn to this genre of television and film, nor can I explain my (almost) unhealthy attrac­tion to grammar, but I don't need to understand the why. I just accept it. 
I am proud of who I am, and if that gives me the label of nerd, I will wear it proudly. 
So, here I am. Stumbling out of the closet in a most unflattering way by admitting this to you all at once, amidst a world full of normal people who don't know how to spell "Sectumsempra" or know the differ­ence between Sauron and Saruman. 
You see there is discrimination against "nerds." While I am fortunate enough to have been able to pass along somewhat normal and even bordering popular groups, there are fellow nerds who are stuffed into lockers and have their pocket-protec­tors stolen due to their lack of con­forming to the standard of "cool." 
Movies like "Revenge of the Nerds" stereotype the inherent enemy of nerds to be the jocks; however, this is different for us closet nerds. Some of us are not accepted by the true nerds simply because we don't wear glasses (although I do) or act and dress like Anthony Michael Hall in "The Breakfast Club." 
Everyone has an inner nerd. Admit it, you do. Whether it is "Harry Potter," anime, "Star Trek," quantum physics, comic books, or "Lord of the Rings," it can most likely be defined as nerdy. So just get over it, you're probably a nerd anyway. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 27, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS GOING TO BE THE HIGHLIGHT OF YOUR SUMMER? 





Brian Wysocki  Ian Giles  Jeremy Lamb  Katy Murdza  Lei Lei  
sophomore Fisher  freshman Knott  freshman Knott  freshman Lyons  freshman Badin  
"Watching my Mets win in  "My cousin from England  "Work. Oddly enough, I have  "Roadtripping to Canada  "Going to San Francisco and  
Philadelphia on July 4·"  is getting out of his tour ofduty  been looking forward to  with my be sties!"  helping the homeless!"  
in Afghanistan  caddying since it  
and is coming ,to visit me.  was -38 degrees outside."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Disassembled lofts sit in a Keenan hallway as end-of-year room Inspections draw near. 
OFFBEAT 

Swiss voters ban nude hiking In Alps 
APPENZELL, Switzerland -Voters in the heart of the Swiss Alps on Sunday passed legislation banning naked hiking after dozens of mostly German nudists started rambling through their picturesque region. 
By a show of hands citi­zens of the tiny canton (state) of Appenzell Inner Rhodes voted overwhelm­ingly at their traditional open-air annual assembly to impose a 200 Swiss franc ($176) fme on violators. 
Only a scattering of people on Sunday opposed the ban on the back-to-nature activi­ty that took off last autumn when naked hikers -pri­marily Germans -started showing up in eastern Switzerland. 
The cantonal government recommended the ban after citizens objected to encoun­tering walkers wearing nothing but hiking boots and socks. 
Fla. gator winds up on Tampa doorstep 
TAMPA, Fla. -Florida alligators are known to roam in springtime when they search for mates, but a Tampa woman was mys­tified to find one parked on her doorstep. Belinda Donaldson got a call Thursday morning from a neighbor who warned her to stay inside because an 11-foot alligator was lounging on her front stoop. She looked out the window and there it was, just outside her door. 
Donaldson says gators sometimes wander away from one of the many lakes in her suburban neighborhood of tidy lawns and neat, 1-story homes just west of Tampa, but she'd never seen one that big. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
0,,,,,,,
-' 
,,,,,,,
II( 
(.) 

..... 0 HIGH 76 HIGH 72 HIGH 61 HIGH 63 
LOW 47 LOW 45 LOW 40 LOW 45 
0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,, 

IN BRIEF 
A lecture titled "The Foreign Policy Challenges Facing the Obama Administration" will takeplace today from 4 p.m. to 6 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium. Lieutenant General Brent Scowcroft will be speaking as part of the Notre Dame International Security Program's seminar series. 
A lecture called "Abortion in the Early Church" and "Rational Debate on Life Issues" will take place today at 8 p.m. in the s.orin Room of LaFortune. Curious about your role as a student at our Lady's University in the upcoming months? About the role of a Catholic in America today? Join in discussions led by several of Notre Dame's distin­guished faculty. This lecture will be presented by Gary Anderson, professor of theology and Joseph Powers, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
Co-sponsored by the College of Science and the Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases, the "Running for a New Ara: 5K run/1 mile walk" will be held Wednesday at 6 p.m. The race starts at the Hesburgh Library Quad. Help raise money and awareness for Niemann-Pick Type C Disease Research. Register at shop.nd.edu with a fee of$10. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show the film, "The Class," Thursday at 9:30p.m. in Browning Cinema. Purchase tickets online at performin­garts.nd.edu, visit or call the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0,,,,,,, 
0,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 
HIGH 67 HIGH 66 LOW 49 LOW 45 
Atlanta 86 /59 Boston 68 /49 Chicago 81 I 61 Denver 75 /45 Houston 80 /68 Los Angeles 63 /49 Minneapolis 72 I 45 New York 68 I 52 Philadelphia 72 I 52 Phoenix 89 I 65 Seattle 59 I 41 St. Louis 85 I 65 Tampa 89 I 65 Washington 75 I 58 
L__----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, April 27, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Preventive 
Medicine, PC 
-where people come to get better. 
~ Massage Therapy ~ Manipulative Medicine ~ Acupuncture 
• 
Neck Pain 

• 
Headaches 

• 
Back Pain 

• 
Stress 



Covered by your insurance plan. preventivemedicinepc.com 

CampusjoinsSouthBend to walk against cancer 
Relay for Life moves to Stepan Center 
Before the opening cere­
By SARAH MAYER monies were complete, Dillon 
News Writer 
Hall Rector Father Paul Doyle gave a blessing to the crowd. 
More than 600 people walked A comedy group, karaoke, in the sixth annual Relay for the band Chicken Jackson and Life to raise money to fight the PEMCo. singers made cancer in the Stepan Center appearances to provide enter­from Friday evening through tainment. Saturday morning, said student People had the opportunity to committee chair Adam Lamm. purchase luminaries in honor 
"It is symbolic of friends and that the fight relatives who are 
against cancer is "'t is symbolic that currently strug­a 24-hour battle, the fight against gling or have lost and not just the battle against
cancer is a 24-hour
something we cancer to
battle, and not just
fight by day," remember them said Lamm. something we fight in a "concrete Unlike previ­and tangible
by day." 
ous years, this way, said year's event was Lamm. moved from Cancer sur­
Adam Lamm South Quad to student committee vivors were also the Stepan chair present to 
Center to allow the event to be able to take place overnight. 
People were allowed to set up campsites in the Stepan Center as a place to store their belongings and take a nap throughout the night if they needed to. 
Members from the Notre Dame Band helped open the event by playing a mini-concert and leading the first lap after the opening ceremony. 
"The band is always an excellent way to start off any Notre Dame event," said Lamm, "It boosted the morale of the crowd." 
Former Notre Dame basket­ball coach Digger Phelps kicked off the opening ceremo­ny. After welcoming the partic­ipants, Phelps handed the microphone to Payton, a 7 year-old boy who is battling childhood leukemia. 
"Stories like Payton's are why we do Relay," said Lamm. 
inspire the peo­ple who walked throughout the night. 
"We did have many cancer survivors in attendance, and asked that survivors sign a special commemorative ban­ner," Lamm said. "It is a goal of the planning committee to repeat this tradition every year, and bring back all of the past year's survivorship ban­ners." 
Donations are still being accepted for this year's Relay for Life. 
"Around $44,000 was raised up to and including the event, but we expect to see the num­ber approach and pass $50,000 as more donations come in," Lamm said. "A major goal of the event is raising both funds, but also cancer aware­ness, and I think that We achieved that in a major way." 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerOI@saintmarys.edu 
Stanford Benefit Bash fights poverty in Chile 
By KEVIN SARLO 
News Writer 
Food, blue skies and about 7 50 people came together for the Stanford Benefit Bash on Friday, with proceeds going to the Holy Cross Missions in Chile, said Stanford Hall president Stu Jansen. 
Warm temperatures allowed for an afternoon that included live bands, a whiffle ball tournament and an "Iron Grill" competition. 
"This event was a great opportunity for everyone at Norte Dame to come together, support this charity and cele­brate the end of the year," Jansen said. 
This is the 12th year Stanford Hall has hosted its signature event on North Quad to benefit Chilean orphanages through the Holy Cross Missions, said Jansen. 
The Chilean mission is of particular interest to Stanford rector Father Tom Gaughan, said Jansen. 
The Holy Cross Mission Center Web site dates their 
involvement in Chile to 1943. 
"Today, the 23 Holy Cross religious in Chile minister in schools, in parishes, and in two orphanages," according to the Web site. 
According to the Web site, 21 percent of the Chilean population lives below the poverty line, but the Holy Cross Missions are working to improve the situation despite past opposition. The Missions' activities were challenged in 1973 by the government of General Pinochet, but Holy Cross was allowed to continue its edu­cational ministry in Chile. 
Donations were raised for Holy Cross by entrance fees to the whiffle ball tourna­ment, the "Iron Grill" cook­off and the sale of event T­shirts and donation buckets. 
"It was a great time," said freshman Adam Cowden. "I've never seen that many people on North Quad before." 
Contact Kevin Sarlo at ksarlol@nd.edu 

r-----­
page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 27, 2009 
Rebuilding Together event draws students, community 
Two South Bend homes receive much-needed repair and renovation work Saturday during annual Saint Mary's project 
By JESSICA ROBBINS News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students helped local South Bend families in River Park during the annual Rebuilding Together project Saturday. 
Saint Mary's sponsored two 
homes for the project, one at 701 S. 34th St. and the other at 703 S. 36th St. The bulk of the 40 Saint Mary's students worked at the 34th St. home, where they scraped and paint­ed the garage and foundation, painted the interior basement foundation walls and exterior siding, did yard work and cleaned and organized the 

of the strongest least those of people I had ever 'Throughout all my time us in Sorin met." College with
knowing Kevin, he never 
"He had whom he will­
gave up, he never gave

touched all of us ingly offered in so many ways in to his disease. He friendship and and he will be many lessons
lived each day with 

truly missed," to learn, even 
courage, perseverance

Bosler said. in his final 
Other friends and an unending desire days," sopho­were humbled to to make it the best day more Steven have spent time Lechner said.
possible. " 

with Healey "May his while he was at memory, Notre Dame, the Javi Zubizarreta which has place he loved united us now
sophomore

the most. in this time of 
"Throughout all my time knowing Kevin, he never gave up, he never gave in to his disease," sophomore Javi Zubizarreta said. "He lived each day with courage, perseverance 
sorrow, live on forever in our hearts in thanks­giving to him and to God." 
Sophomore George Warner said: "In his short time here at Notre Dame, Kevin Healey man-

basement. Local union work­ers did plumbing, electrical and window repairs. 
"All of the houses are in need of cosmetic work such as painting and home improve­ment, but it is all a matter of degree: some are more in need of interior repairs while others are in need of exterior," said Carrie Call, the director 
for the Office of Civil and Social Engagement at Saint Mary's. 
Brenda, the owner of the house, is a single mother with two children. 
"Her son, Seth, was handing out bottled water to the work­ers outside, and she was very involved with the projects," Saint Mary's junior Rachel 
aged to touch more people in a person and friend. The world has larger way than anybody I know. experienced a true loss with his A true gift from God." passing, and I will always 
Likewise, sophomore Conor remember him." Blanco spoke of his friend's Twenty-seven of Healey's class­example. mates from St. Ignatius High 
"Kevin Healey was the School in Cleveland who attend strongest person I have ever met. Notre Dame authored a Letter to He has inspired me for the past the Editor Thursday, asking the two years, and will continue to community to keep Healey, one of inspire me for my the University's entire life," "most loyal sons," Blanco said. and his family in
"Kevin Healey was
"Thank you, its prayers after 
Kevin, for your the strongest person his condition 
example of faith, I have ever met. He worsened last love and week.
has inspired me for
strength." Freshman Sean
the past two years, 
Sophomore Stefancin said Jacques Dupuis and will continue to Healey's sharing said: "There are of his love of
inspire me for my
few people who I Notre Dame
entire life." 
have come across rubbed off on him in my life as wor­and that his sense thy of respect as Conor Blanco of humor is Kevin. His candor, something he will
sophomore
intelligence, remember most resolve and about his high friendship defined school classmate. him to me. Healey hosted Stefancin for a 
"I knew I could speak with him weekend on campus before he about any issue, and though we came to Notre Dame and helped did not always agree, he would Stefancin make his fmal decision. not let a simple difference of When it was time for Frosh-0, views damage a friendship," he Healey helped his friend adjust to said. "To me, that spoke to his University life. true character and quality as a "It was so nice seeing a friendly Eisterhold said. "This opportu­nity lets you see that some­thing is going on outside of campus and you are given an opportunity to get involved with the community, and it is an awesome feeling." 
Contact Jessica Robbins at jrobbiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Healey 
continued from page 1 
courage, I'd simply say: 'Kevin Healy,"' he said. "He was a man of pride who never gave up and fought until his last breath. He was a true Fighting Irishman who will forever remain alive in our memories." 
Bosler echoed Yoon, saying Healey "was one 
face from home during that hec­tic time," he said. 
Healey "lived so fully with what he had," Stefancin said. "Not even cancer slowed Kevin, and I am blessed to know [him]. He has inspired me so many times." 
Healey is survived by his par­ents, Tom, class of 1981, and Ann, and his younger sister, Mary Kate. 
Visitations will take place Monday from 2-4 p.m. and 6-9 
p.m. at Chambers Funeral Homes in North Olmsted, Ohio. 
A funeral Mass for Kevin Healey will be held 10 a.m. on Tuesday at St. Bernadette Church in Westlake, Ohio. 
University Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman notified all University officers and deans, residence hall rectors, Student Affairs Department directors and mem­bers of the Board of Trustees of his death. 
A memorial Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart is scheduled for May 3 at 4 p.m. According to Poorman, the Healey family will be in atten­dance. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
and an unending desire to make it the best day possible. 
"I am incredibly humbled and eternally thankful to have learned such an amazing lesson from an even more amazing per­son," he said. 
Healey's fellow Sorin residents thanked him for his inspiring friendship and remembered his effect on their time at Notre Dame. 
"We ought all to thank Kevin 
Healey, at 


Grad commencement 
to host Mellon speaker 
Foundation president Harvard Biographical 
Dictionary of Music and theRandel will get degree Harvard Concise Dictionary of Music and Musicians. Randel taught for 32 years
Special to The Observer 
at Cornell University, serving 

Don Michael Randel, presi­as dean of the university's dent of the Andrew W. college of arts and letters Mellon Foundation, will be and for five years as its the principal speaker May 16 provost before becoming at the Commencement cere­president of the University of mony for the University of Chicago in 2000. At Chicago, Notre Dame Graduate he led a $2 billion fund-rais­School. He will receive an ing campaign, the largest in honorary degree the next the university's history. day at Notre Dame's 164th Randel earned undergrad­Commencement exercises. uate, master's and doctoral 
The Graduate School cere­degrees in music from mony will take place at 10 Princeton University. He has 
a.m. at the Joyce Center. An been an Honorary Woodrow outdoor reception for gradu­Wilson fellow, a Danforth ates and their guests will Graduate fellow and a immediately follow the cere­Fulbright award winner. mony in the area adjacent to The Graduate School the DeBartolo Performing Commencement ceremony Arts Center. will include recognition of 
Randel is a prolific and all graduates and the recipi­internationally prominent ents of the Shaheen Awards, historian of music. He spe­the Graduate School's high­cializes in music of the est student distinction, and Middle Ages and the recipient of the Renaissance but has written Distinguished Graduate and lectured on topics rang­Alumni Award. The Hev. ing from Arabic music theory James A. Burns, C.S.C., and Latin American popular Graduate School Award, pre­music to medieval liturgical sented to a faculty member chant and 15th century for outstanding contributions French music and poetry. He to graduate education, also also is editor of the Harvard will be presented during the Dictionary of Music, the event. 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April27, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pakistan attacks Taliban militants 
ISLAMABAD -Pakistan sent helicopter gunships and troops to attack Taliban mili­tants Sunday in a district covered by a peace deal after strong U.S. pressure on the nuclear-armed nation to confront insurgents advancing in its northwest. 
At least 31 people were killed in the offensive, which sent some residents of Lower Dir district fleeing carrying small children and few belongings. 
The operation appeared to endanger a peace pact struck with Taliban militants in neighboring Swat Valley, although a top official insisted the deal was "intact." Another official demanded the insurgents disarm. but a Taliban spokesman said the militants would not give up their weapons. 
Pope names five new saints 
VATICAN CITY -Pope Benedict XVI named five new saints Sunday, including Portugal's 14th century independence leader and a priest who ministered to fac­tory workers at the dawn of the industrial era. 
Speaking in a packed St. Peter's Square, Benedict praised each of the five as a model for the faithful, saying their lives and works were as relevant today as when they were alive. 
Benedict singled out the Rev. Arcangelo Tadini, who lived at the turn of the last century and founded an order of nuns to tend to factory workers -something of a scandal at the time, since factories were considered immoral and dangerous places. Tadini also created an association to provide emergency loans to workers experiencing financial difficulties. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
College party turns into violent riot 
COLUMBUS -An end-of-year college block party spiraled out of control as police fired pellets and used pepper spray to break up hundreds of rioting students who sparked a string of street fires at Kent State University. 
Video posted on the Internet shows stu­dents hurling furniture and street signs into the flames on Saturday night as a SWAT team in riot gear converged on the crowd. Kent police said the party grew vio­lent after one reveler was arrested and stu­dents began pelting officers with bottles, bricks and rocks. 
It was the first violent clash between Kent State students and police in years. In 1970, four Kent State students were killed by Ohio National Guard troops during a cam­pus protest of the invasion of Cambodia. 
Three injured in campus shooting 
HAMPTON, Va. -A former Hampton University student armed with three guns followed a pizza delivery man into the student's former dorm early Sunday, shot the delivery man and a dorm monitor, then turned the gun on himself, university officials said. All three survived. 
No current students were injured and both victims and the alleged shooter were expected to recover. Officials could offer no motive for the shooting. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Mishawaka company on probation 
SOUTH BEND -A northern Indiana compa­ny and its president have been placed on fed­eral probation and fined after pleading guilty to knowingly hiring illegal workers. 
U.S. District Judge Robert L. Miller Jr. accepted a plea agreement for Janco Composites and its president, Douglas Jaques, on Thursday in federal court in South Bend. Janco and Miller had entered the guilty pleas in February. 
Janco, which makes fiberglass tubing at its plant in Mishawaka, agreed to pay a fine of $210,000 and was placed on probation for five years. Jaques was fined $30,000 and placed on probation for one year. 
U.S. declares public health emergency 
Swine flu cases are confirmed; White House tells Americans not to panic 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The world's governments raced to avoid both a pandemic and global hysteria Sunday as more possible swine flu cases surfaced from Canada to New Zealand and the United States declared a public health emergency. "It's not a time to panic," the White House said. 
Mexico, the outbreak's epicenter with up to 86 sus­pected deaths, canceled some church services and closed markets and restau­rants. Few people ventured onto the streets, and some wore face masks. Canada became the third country to confirm cases, in six people, including some students who -like some New York City spring-breakers -got mildly ill in Mexico. Countries across Asia prom­ised to quarantine feverish travelers returning from flu-affected areas. 
The U.S. declared the health emergency so it could ship roughly 12 mil­lion doses of flu-fighting medications from a federal stockpile to states in case they eventually need them -although, with 20 con­firmed cases of people recovering easily, they don't look both calm and in com­"Meet the Press" that were following a playbook appear to for now. mand, striking a balance Obama was getting updates of precautions developed 
Make no mistake: There is between informing "every few hours" on the over the past five years to not a global pandemic -at Americans without panick­situation. prepare for the next super­least not yet. It's not clear ing them. Obama himself In Mexico, soldiers hand­flu. The WHO on Saturday how many people truly have was playing golf while U.S. ed out 6 million surgical­asked all countries to step this particular strain, or officials used a White House style masks to deal with a up detection of this strain of why all countries but news conference to com­deadly flu strain that offi­NH1N1 swine flu and will Mexico are seeing mild dis­pare the emergency decla­cials say may have sickened reconsider on Tuesday ease. Nor is it clear if the ration with preparing for an 1,400 people since April 13. whether to raise the pan­new virus spreads easily, approaching hurricane. Special laboratory tests to demic threat level, in turn one milestone that distin­"Really, that's what we're confirm how many died triggering additional guishes a bad flu from a doing right now. We're from it -22 have been actions. global crisis. But waiting to preparing in an environ­confirmed so far out of 86 A potential pandemic take protective steps until ment where we really don't suspected deaths -are virus is defined, among after a pandemic is know ultimately what the taking time. other things, as a novel declared would be too late. size or seriousness of this The World Bank said it strain that's not easily treat­
"We do think this will con­outbreak is going to be," would send Mexico $25 mil­ed. This new strain can be tinue to spread but we are Homeland Security lion in loans for immediate treated with Tamiflu and taking aggressive actions to Secretary Janet Napolitano aid and $180 million in Relenza, but not two older minimize the impact on told reporters. long-term assistance to flu drugs. Also, the WHO people's health," said Dr. Earlier, White House address the outbreak, along wants to know if it's easily Richard Besser, acting chief press secretary Robert with advice on how other spread from one person to a of the Centers for Disease Gibbs said the outbreak was nations have dealt with sim­second who then spreads it Control and Prevention. serious, but that the public ilar crises. again-something U.S. 
President Barack Obama's should know "it's not a time The World Health officials suspect and are administration sought to to panic." He told NBC's Organization and the U.S. investigating. 

IRAQ 

Prime minister criticizes Sunday raid 
gunfire and six suspects arrested for a! from the country by the end of 2011. 
Associated Press 

alleged links to Shiite militia factions. A statement from Prime Minister 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's prime minister But efforts were quickly launched in Nouri al-Maliki -in his role as com­denounced a deadly U.S. raid on an attempt to tone down the dispute. mander general of Iraqi forces ­Sunday as a "crime" that violated the The six detainees were released, said called the raid a "violation of the secu­security pact with Washington and Major Gen. Read Shakir Jawdat, head rity pact." demanded American commanders of the provincial police that includes He asked the U.S. military "to release hand over those responsible to face Kut. At the same news conference, U.S. the detainees and hand over those possible trial in Iraqi courts. Col. Richard Francey offered condo­responsible for this crime to the 
The U.S. military, however, strongly lences to the family of the woman courts," according to an Iraqi security denied that it overstepped its bounds killed. official who read the statement to The and said it notified Iraqi authorities in The fallout marks the most serious Associated Press. advance -in accordance with the test of the security pact so far and Elsewhere in Iraq, gunmen stormed rules that took effect this year govern­could bring new strains during a criti­two Christian homes in separate ing U.S. battlefield conduct. cal transition period. attacks in the ethnically diverse city of 
The pre-dawn raid in the southern U.S. forces plan to move out of most Kirkuk, killing at least two Chaldean Shiite city of Kut ended with at least major Iraqi cities by the end of June in Christians and one Assyrian, said police one woman dead after being caught in the first phase of a promised withdraw-Brig. Burham Taib. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April27, 2009 
The candidates were also University and how much I put cally just blew me away, Ireland, said he sees the judged on their ability to myself into the whole experi­Collins said. opportunity to be the Notre
Collins 
ence," he said. 

Collins said he knew he wanted to be the leprechaun since the beginning of' fresh­man year. 
''I've always been a huge sports fan and from the first time I came to Notre Dame, the whole atmosphere around our sports teams and what people call the ND spirit, basi­continued from page 1 
some cheers to get everyone on their feet. 
"I gave a speech about how I'm excited for this year's foot­ball season and how the team had a lot of momentum right now to get everyone fired up for it," Collins said. 
respond to game situations, complete an interview with a media personality as well as a private interview with a panel of judges, he said. 
When asked what set him apart from the other candi­dates, Collins said it was "hard to describe." 
"I think they recognized just how much I loved the 
S"u···.~·g·eBetween Notre Dame &
'IJ. •. t u. ..· .·. Airport at the corn~r of 
. .. · · · • · Mayflower & Edisonspace :). Ca/1574.247. 7805 
Senate
Lighted &Paved Free Lock with Every Unit 
continued from page 1 
tions," the statement said. "The Faculty Senate respectfully asks those groups to find other venues to convey their opinions
5x1 0...$169 +DEP 
to President Obama or to the 

University of Notre Dame." =============~-_:.F::aculty 
Senate is an assembly 
10x10...$269 +DEP 
Store Your Stun 
OYer the summerl 
15141 203-0512 
6482 Brick Road, South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass, 7 minutes from campus 


Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 

of University professors and faculty that seeks to "exercise a collective and independent voice in the governance of the University," according to the group's mission statement. 
The American Association of University Professors (AAUP) ­a national group of professors who work to advance academic freedom -also released a statement Thursday supporting Jenkins' decision. 
"Perhaps no attempt to ban a speaker has drawn more atten­tion than the effort by ofT-cam­pus groups to prevent President 
Dancer 
continued from page 1 

Philadelphia on April 5, host­ing dancers from five different continents. 
It was the first time the dance contest has been held on American soil -a faet that was not overlooked by Hobinett who enjoyed a home-floor advantage. 
Making the victory extra sweet for Robinett was "the fact that I was in America and I got to be an American to win it." 
Losing a competition earlier this year inspired Hobinett to work harder, driving her to 
Collins said he is most excit­ed about the opportunity con­nect with the fans. 
''I'm excited for all our sports to have great seasons and I'm most excited to be able to share with the fans," he said. 
Collins, who is an Irish Studies minor and whose fami­ly comes from West Cork, 
Barack Obama from delivering this year's commencement address at the University of Notre Dame," the statement said. 
The statement applauded Jenkins' firm stance on his invi­tation and said rescinding invi­tations due to outside pressure is an "infringement" of aca­demic freedom. 
"The opportunity to be con­fronted with diverse opinions is at the core of academic free­dom, which is vital to a free society and a quality educa­tion," the statement said. "The 
practice at least five days a week in the month leading up to the contest. 
"I actually lost my regional, I got second, which always ends up paying off for me. It forces me to work harder," Robinett said. 
Noting the fact that her grandmother is "100 percent Irish," Robinett said she went to an Irish dance class when she was six years old and after that she "just never stopped." 
Hobinett has won five nation­als as well as placing second in two previous world champi­onships. According to a press release, this is her 11th time qualifying for the event. 
The victory was made even more special for Robinett, 
Dame mascot as a "huge honor." 
"I just wanted to let the stu­dents know that I see this as a huge honor to be able to rep­resent them and represent a University that means so much to so many people," he said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
AAUP will continue to work to ensure such academic free­dom." 
The group said Jenkins' deci­sion is consistent with a state­ment by University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh: "The Catholic uni­versity must have true autono­my and academic freedom in the face of authority of whatev­er kind, lay or clerical, external to the academic community itself." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
because her brother and cousin were able to attend. 
"[My brother] usually doesn't get to come because he is over­seas. He was there, my mom was there, and my cousin got to be there," she said. "I had more family there than I ever had before." 
Robinett said this will proba­bly be her last year participat­ing in the worldwide competi­tion, but said she plans to enter a national competition next summer. When she is done dancing, she said would like to teach the sport and pass her expertise onto younger generations. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

To reach these twin goals, the panelists stressed the
Gender 

importance of calling the department "Gender Studies"
continued from page 1 

instead of "Women Studies." ered to share war stories." This allows the department 
Gernes shared several such to articulate its principles in stories. A security guard once its namesake -all kinds of denied her entrance to earn­equality are important, pus because including aca­he did not demic opportuni­believe she ties.
"The whole 
could be a Aldous, who professor, University was has taught at Gernes said. Notre Dame since
essentially 'Men's 
The pan-1976, was jubi­
Studies' before the 
elists agreed lant about the w i t h Gender Studies pro­progress and suc­Preacher's cess of the pro­
gram helped form a 
statement gram that she 
more balanced cur-
that "Notre has witnessed. Dame is a riculum overall." "Hooray for the traditional 20th anniversary institution of this program!"
Janet Kourany
that even she said. "That's
philosophy professor
now still has wonderful!" its preju-"The whole dices" but University was praised the collaborative essentially 'Men's Studies' nature of the Gender Studies before the Gender Studies program, specif'ieally for program helped form a more allowing students to pursue balanced curriculum over­intellectual as well as per­all," Kourany said. sonal development. Helping to balance the cur­

riculum, Kourany said, has been the program's greatest achievement. 
A second panel of distin­guished Notre Dame alumni, including Wade Edwards, director of Women's and Gender Studies at Longwood University, Jacki Larson, director of Student Talent Development at Dakota Wesleyan University, Krista Duttenhaver, assistant pro­fessor in the Program of Liberal Studies at Notre Dame, Annie Envall, director of the S.O.S. Center in South Bend, and Lindsay Horvath from the National Organization for Women, shared perspectives on the roles of women at Notre Dame. 
Horvath said her "roots in activism grew here at Notre Dame" where she could chal­lenge her peers to embody Catholic values in their actions toward oppressed members of the community. 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, April27, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,076.29 +119.23 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,342 101 715 2,819,629,029 
AMEX 
NASDAQ 1,694.29 +42.08 NYSE .si~a~~l'!'l!ii~I~~1Ji~: S&P 500 866.23 +14.31 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8;/G7;99m(itli;: o1~d FTSE 100 (London) 4,155.99 +137.76 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +3.17 +0.28 9.10 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +7.13 +0.56 8.41 FINANCIAL BEAR 3X (FAZ) ·7.09 -0.63 8.28 CITIGROUP INC (C) -0.31 -0.01 3.19 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.36 +0.0690 2.00 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.0950 30-YEAR BOND +2.08 +0.0790 3.88 5-YEAR NOTE +2.75 +0.05 1.94 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 0.00 48.85 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) +7.50 914.10 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.75 81.50 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 96.8650 EURO 1.3194 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2139 BRITISH POUND 1.4616 
IN BRIEF 
Chrysler may avoid bankruptcy 
WASHINGTON -White House economic adviser Larry Summers said Sunday the Obama administration is holding out hope that Chrysler can stay out of bankruptcy court. 
Chrysler LLC is surviving on government loans and has until Thursday to work out a joint venture with Italian automaker Fiat Group SpA. 
"We will certainly do our part to support a successful negotiation, but on the other hand, the president has made clear -and I think most Americans would share this view -that you've got to have responsibility, you've got to have accountability and you can't have a situa­tion where companies proceed on a permanent basis relying only on cash from the govern­ment," Summers said. 
"That's why he made clear that there needed to be a new structure with which Chrysler could operate, which would make long-term viability possible." 
New GM plan expected Monday 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. will announce details of its massive restructuring plan on Monday, including changes in its eight brands, potential factory closures and other restructuring moves as it fights to avoid bank­ruptcy protection. 
The struggling automaker must make the announcement in advance of a planned offer to its bondholders to swap debt for company stock. GM owes $28 billion to large and small bond­holders, and under Securities and Exchange Commission rules, it must disclose its opera­tional plans before making an exchange offer. 
The disclosure is likely to include the end of the storied Pontiac brand, and could provide fur­ther details of factory closings. The company said in February that it would shutter five addi­tional factories, but it didn't identify their loca­tions. 
The 9 a.m. EDT news conference will include Chief Executive Fritz Henderson, Chief Financial Officer Ray Young, North American President Troy Clarke and Mark LaNeve, vice president of North American sales and marketing. 
GM is living on $15.4 billion in government loans and !'aces a government-imposed June 1 deadline to restructure or go into bankruptcy protection. 
World Bank asks donors to speed aid 
Committee calls economic downturn in poor countries a 'calamity' 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The World Bank on Sunday urged donor nations to speed up delivery of the money they've already pledged -and open their wallets wider -to help poor countries reeling from recessions rooted in rich nations. 
The economic nosedive is turning into a human and development "calami­ty," which already has driven more than 50 mil­lion people into extreme poverty this year, the World Bank's policy steer­ing committee said in a communique issued at the close of its spring meet­ing. 
"There is widespread recognition that the world faces an unprecedented economic crisis, poor peo­ple could suffer the most and that we must contin­ue to act in real time to prevent a human catas­trophe," World Bank chief Robert Zoellick said. 
Poor countries have watched as the recession has dried up investment capital, sharply reduced exports and commodity prices and slowed the flow of cash sent home by meet the needs of devel­slowdown threatens to ing a more muscular role their citizens working oping nations harmed by reverse major progress in in addressing and over­abroad. Finance ministers the downturn. poverty reduction," seeing the crisis. Both at the meeting said The economic crisis is Geithner said. But he Zoellick and IMF manag­impoverished nations "advancing like a silent added that it was impor­ing director Dominique need a hand up that does­tsunami, with those who tant that development Strauss-Kahn expressed n't burden them with debt contributed least to the banks conduct their aid support for the emerging or add to the ranks of crisis suffering most from business with transparen­market economies to have those earning just a few its impact," said German cy. a stronger voice at the dollars a day. development minister The World Bank meet­twin financial institutions. 
The World Bank has Heidemarie Wieczorek­ing capped three days of Earlier this month in pledged to provide poor Zeul. She said it would talks in Washington about London, leaders from the countries with more than take more money to help the economic crisis, but G-20 pledged to boost $55 billion for public stabilize poor nations yielded no new pledges of support for the IMF, the works projects left in "without plunging them money from governments. World Bank and other limbo when the recession into a spiral of debt." Finance ministers from international lending hit. That follows a tripling Treasury Secretary the Group of Seven organizations by $1.1 tril­in lending, to $12 billion, Timothy Geithner said wealthy nations met first lion to combat the global to support health, educa­multilateral development on Friday, followed by a recession -the biggest tion and other safety net banks, led by the World gathering of the Group of chunk being $500 billion programs in poor coun­Bank, are at the forefront 20 nations, which adds for emergency lending by tries. The International of international efforts to major emerging power­the IMF. More than $300 Monetary Fund is dou­lift more people out of houses like China, India billion has been pledged bling the borrowing limits poverty. "We meet at an and Brazil to the mix. The by the U.S., the European for 78 of the poorest unprecedented time when talks ended with the Union, Japan, Canada, countries in an effort to a severe global economic World Bank and IMF flex-Switzerland and Norway. 

Companies change annual meetings 
Associated Press financial sector, shareholder anger is going down." 
in. It's a far cry from the placid and 
NEW YORK-Just a few years ago, At the Citigroup meeting, which this sometimes festive meetings of years companies staging annual meetings year was without the usual coffee and past. Starbucks brought in Tony brought in acts like Paul McCartney cookies, one shareholder sent off Bennett and piped in McCartney via and Tony Bennett. At the very least, departing board members with a cry video link to impress shareholders in they offered snacks as CEOs boasted of 'Thank God you've gone!" 2006 and 2007. At last month's meet­about big profits. Citigroup investors have been a ing, there were no stars. It did not 
This year, when stockholder Ram notoriously noisy bunch for years, but even unveil a new product. Bijapur decided to show up at the this year took it to the extreme. The This year, CarMax Inc. is scaling Hilton hotel for the Citigroup meeting meeting went on for about six hours, back the number of glossy pages in its because he was angry about the two hours longer than in recent years annual report. Kraft Foods Inc. is for­bank's steep losses. what he found It's not just the banks. At the annual going annual report printouts alto­was decidedly more sparse. meeting of The New York Times Co., gether and e-mailing the documents 
"They're so broke," he observed, which is in such bad shape it has to shareholders instead -a move "they can't even give us a bottle of threatened to close The Boston Globe Kraft says is greener and will save water." if it can't cut costs, stockholder hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
As annual meetings ramp up in Leotehmen Maharaj told the board it Coca-Cola Co. and General Motors earnest for the first time since the should can the CEO. Corp. both usually meet in economic meltdown, the gatherings "Every year I come to the meeting, Wilmington, Del., but this year they're are very different al'l'airs. Perks and and they say the same thing," staying close to home and meeting in glitz are out. And, at least in the Maharaj said. "The stock price keeps Atlanta and Detroit, respectively. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, April 27, 2009 
UNITED KINGDOM 
Holder close to decision on detainees 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The United States is "relatively close" to making decisions on what to do with an initial group of Guantanamo Bay detainees, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Sunday. 
Holder spoke to The Associated Press during a flight to London, the first of several stops where he will visit with European leaders to discuss ter­rorism, drugs, and cyber-crime. 
The attorney general did not say how much longer he thought it would take to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facil­ity in Cuba. Before officials can meet President Barack Obama's January deadline, the U.S. must first decide which detainees to put on trial and which to release to the U.S. or other countries. 
Holder said the first step is to decide how many total detainees will be set free. 
"We're doing these all on a rolling basis," he said. "I think we're probably relatively close to making some calls." 
The attorney general has called the Guantanamo work the toughest part of his job. 
After eight years in which the previous Bush administration alienated European nations over issues like the Iraq war and Guantanamo Bay, the Obama administration is trying to strengthen those ties. 
"I don't think they're looking for as much of American leader­ship as a partnership," said Holder. 
After arriving in London on Sunday night, the attorney gen­eral and his staffers took a tour of the Tower of London -home of The Bloody Tower, a historic torture site. 
The tower visit is standard 
fare for tourists, but one loaded with extra meaning for Holder, who listened quietly to tales of torture, execution and palace intrigue. 
The Obama administration is edging toward taking some Guantanamo prisoners to the U.S., most likely to Virginia. They are Chinese Muslims known as Uighurs, and their supporters say they never should have been at Guantanamo in the flrst place. 
Republicans in Congress say Guantanamo should remain in operation and are mobilizing to fight the release of detainees into the United States. 
Against that backdrop, Holder hoped to reassure skeptical Europeans without generating too much public opposition back home. After meetings in London and Prague, the attorney gener­al is to give a speech Wednesday night in Berlin about Guantanamo. 
Austria's interior minister, Maria Fekter, has insisted her country would not take any pris­oners. "If the detainees are no longer dangerous, why don't they stay in the U.S.?" she asked. 
Simon Koschut, an associate fellow with the German Council on Foreign Relations in Berlin, spoke of the difficulty facing Holder in trying to find a con­sensus among European lead­ers. 
"In Germany, many are asking why America isn't taking care of its own business. If you started 
it,  you  ought  to  finish  it,"  
Koschut said.  
There  are  about  240  

Guantanamo inmates. As many as 60, iffreed, cannot go back to their homelands because they could face abuse, imprisonment or death. They are from Azerbaijan, Algeria, Afghanistan, Chad, China, Saudi Arabia and Yemen. 

Several European nations, including Portugal and Lithuania, have said they will consider taking such detainees. Others are less interested and don't want their neighbors to accept any prisoners either, because of the ease of travel within the European Union. 
In some nations are internal divisions. Germany's foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, has raised the possi­bility his country could take detainees, arguing that the camp's closure should not fail because the prisoners have nowhere to go. But Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has said the detainees are pri­marily a U.S. responsibility. 
Given that debate, that's all the more reason, say some, for the U.S. to release some Guantanamo prisoners in the 
U.S. as quickly as possible to generate good will. 
Currently, there are 17 Uighurs held at Guantanamo. In recent weeks, officials reinter­viewed each of them in prepara­tion for their eventual transfer. The government has cleared them for release, but insists it will not hand them over to China because the Uighurs fear they will be tortured. 
The Uighurs were captured in Pakistan and Afghanistan in 2001. Uighurs are from Xinjiang, an isolated region that borders Afghanistan, Pakistan and six Central Asian nations. They say they have been repressed by the Chinese gov­ernment. China has said that insurgents are leading an Islamic separatist movement. 

Course Instructor Feedback 
Completing CIFs 
allows you to see Your feedback student feedback 

contributes to the next semester 
improvement of teaching and 
through the 
learning at ND. Enhanced Class 

The feed back Search (ECS) tool. window for most courses closes the last reading day Sunday, May 3. 
Other courses may
Course Instructor Feedback (CIFJ is the system that replaces TCEs close earlier. 

~UNIVERSITY OF
'W NOTRE DAME 
Tyra to testify at alleged stalker trial 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Model-turned­television personality Tyra Banks is due in court this week to testify against a Georgia man accused of following her from one side of the country to anoth­er. 
Banks, host of TV's "America's Next Top Model," is to testify in a Manhattan courtroom where Brady Green goes on trial on charges of stalking her. 
Green, of Dublin, Ga., is accused of following Banks from coast to coast since January of last year. He was arrested in a McDonald's near the Manhattan building where "The Tyra Banks Show" is taped after he tried to see her on March 18, 2008. 
Green told police then, "I know her. She knows me. We're good friends." He said he "came by bus}from Los Angeles] to see her. 
"We had a thing together," court papers quote Green as telling police. "I sent her flowers. I sent her cards. Should I plead no contest? I've got satellites watching me and recording us." 
Green, 38, has pleaded not guilty to stalking, harassment and criminal trespass. He faces up to 90 days in jail if convicted by Manhattan Criminal Court Judge James Burke, who is hearing the case without a jury. 
Green has rejected several non-jail plea de~tls offered by the prosecution. If he had accepted the plea ofl"ers, Banks' testimony would not have been necessary and he would not have seen her in court. 
Burke scheduled the start of Green's trial after a hearing in which he ruled that most state­ments the defendant made to police could be used as trial evi­dence. 
Banks, 35, has to appear in court to testify she was alarmed and feared for her physical safe­ty. This emotional distress is an element of the criminal charges against Green. 
A criminal complaint filed when Green was arrested says building custodian Edward Troiano told police the defen­dant also had appeared at Banks' Los Angeles studio "on multiple occasions" and asked to speak to her. 
The complaint says Troiano reported Green had sent letters and flowers to Banks there and had tried to reach her there by telephone at least five times. Troiano also might testify at Green's trial. 

Firefighters battle S.C. blaze, survive close call 
Two state forestry technicians forced to take cover in fire shelter after tractor gets stuck 
Associated Press 

CONWAY, S.C. -Wayne Springs and Terry Cook tried to outrun a South Carolina wild­fire as it started ripping through forests and homes near the coast. The two state forestry technicians survived by huddling in portable fire shelters, and four days later they were still stomping out the blaze. 
"I was nervous going back, but I didn't want to leave everybody else," Springs, 43, said Sunday. ''I've never seen anything like this and I hope I never do again." 
In all, the wildfire that start­ed Wednesday has burned more than 30 square miles and demolished more than 70 homes. Officials said it remained 85 percent contained Sunday but worried an expect­ed wind shift Monday could threaten other houses. Nobody has been injured. 
Springs and Cook were hours into battling the wildfire near North Myrtle Beach when their tractor got stuck on a fire break. They were waiting for a tow when the winds changed, pushing a 150-foot wall of flames at them. 
"You knew it was coming for you, and that is a bad feeling," said Springs, of Lake City. "We were scared, but we stayed calm." 
Each took cover in a fire shel­ter -which looks like a mas­sive piece of aluminum foil ­and hunkered in a small ditch filled with water as the fire roared over them. For several minutes they were surrounded by the sounds of popping wood and the whoosh of flames. 
"It wasn't long, but it felt like forever," said Cook, 43, of Florence County. 
They and dozens of others were widening fire barriers and keeping watch on forecasts through the weekend. 
Breezes that staved calm overnight remain.ed light Sunday, but were expected to shift Monday toward the south­west. Through Sunday, the winds have mostly blown to the north, driving flames parallel to the coast. The shift could threaten an inland subdivision about six miles south of where most of the homes were destroyed. 
"Sooner or later, these winds are gonna shift, then it's a whole different ballgame," forester Mike Ney told about 100 workers being briefed at the start of one 12-hour shift Sunday. 
Firefighters continued dous­ing hotspots and sifting through soil to prevent smol­dering embers from blowing away and igniting pockets of greenery. 
Firefighters also focused effort on hotspots in the far northeast corner of the scorched acres, near some swampy areas. More water drops by National Guard Black Hawk helicopters were planned, officials said. 
Digging through the soil takes bulldozers several laps because the vegetation is so thick. So­called Carolina Bays that have helped fuel the blaze can be filled with brush and peat moss up to 5 feet deep, Ney said. 

~-_____j 
Monday, April27, 2009 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
EcuADOR 
Correa declares re-election victory 
Associated Press 
QUITO -President Rafael Correa, a leftist champion of the poor, declared re-election victory Sunday just moments after the polls closed -a win that breaks sharply with Ecuador's history of political instability. 
Three separate exit polls said Correa garnered well over half the vote in an eight-candidate field, making him the flrst presi­dent elected in Ecuador in 30 years without a runoff. 
Correa, who promised to rid the small Andean nation of its corrupt political class when fust elected in 2006, danced, sang his party anthem and pumped fists with his close political advisers in his home city of Guayaquil. Exit polls predicted a victory moments after voting ended. 
"'We will never defraud the Ecuadorean people,"' he told cheering supporters. "'I think that's why we received such immense support. We've made history in a nation that between 1996 and 2006 never saw a democratic government com­plete its term."' 
International observers reported no serious irregulari­ties in the voting Sunday. 
Exit polls done for state TV and two independent channels gave Correa at least 54 percent of the vote, with former presi­dent and coup leader Lucio Gutierrez a distant second. 
To win without forcing a runoff, a candidate needed either 50 percent of the vote plus one or at least 40 percent with a 1 0-point margin over his closest competitor. 
The vote was mandated by the new constitution that voters approved in September by a 64 percent margin. It strengthens the president's hand and makes him eligible to run in 2013 for another consecutive four-year term. 
A feisty, 46-year-old economist who blames the global economic crisis on capitalism's "'structural flaws,"' Correa has alarmed for­eign investors by defaulting on debt payments in tough dealings with oil companies and other multinationals. 
And he's imposed some of the world's strictest protectionist measures, including tariffs that have put imported goods out of reach for many consumers. 
But the charismatic, sharp­tongued Correa has largely won over the lower classes. He tripled state spending on educa­tion and health care, doubled a monthly payment for single mothers to $30 and launched subsidy programs for small farmers and people building their own homes. 
SOUTH KOREA 

Ki111's son set to succeed father 
Associated Press 

SEOUL -North Korean leader Kim Jong Il's youngest son has reportedly been named to the powerful National Defense Commission, an appointment analysts said Sunday indicates the 26-year-old is being groomed to take power. 
Kim Jong Un speaks English, likes basketball -and is said to look and act just like his father. 
The reclusive, nuclear-armed communist nation's next leader has been the focus of intense media speculation since Kim, 67, reportedly suffered a stroke last summer. 
Kim has ruled with absolute authority since his father, Kim II Sung, died in 1994, leading to the communist world's first hereditary power succession. 
Kim Jong II has allowed no opposition, raising concerns about a power struggle ifhe dies suddenly without naming a suc­cessor. 
The eccentric leader has three known sons by two women. The oldest, Kim Jong Nam, was long considered his favorite -until he tried to sneak into Japan using a fake Dominican passport and visit Tokyo's Disney resort in 2001. 
The middle son, Kim Jong Chol, apparently has never been a favorite as a possible leader. Kim Jong Il's former sushi chef says in a 2003 memoir that the leader considers his second son "'girlish."' 
But talk about the youngest son has been growing. On Sunday, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported Kim Jong Un was assigned to ·a low-level post at the defense comlnission, the top government body, sever­al days before his father was reappointed as the commission's chairman on April 9. 
That reappointment marked the first major public appear­ance for the "'Dear Leader"' after his reported stroke. He was gaunter, grayer. 
Yonhap, citing unidentified sources it says are privy to North Korea affairs, said Kim Jong Un's appointment means he has embarked on his training as successor and is expected to move step by step into the com­mission's higher-level posts. 
South Korea's Unification Ministry and the National Intelligence Service said they cannot confirm the report. 
Little is known about Kim Jong Un. The former sushi chef, Kenji Fujimoto, says in his mem­oir that the son looks and acts just like his father. 
The teen studied at the International School of Bern in Switzerland, a short walk from the North Korean embassy, where classes are taught in English and many students come from diplomatic families. 
A recent article in the French­speaking weekly L'Hebdo described Kim Jong Un as a shy student enrolled under the name of Chol Pak, who enjoyed team sports like basketball, went skiing with friends on Fridays and admired Michael Jordan and Jean-Claude Van Damme. 
'"He had a lot of friends among the children of American diplomats,"' the school's past director, David Gatley, told L'Hebdo. 
Kim Jong II believes his youngest son has "'charismatic leadership"' like him, said Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at the security think tank Sejong Institute. 
Cheong said Kim Jong Il's health problems would speed up his naming an heir. 
But Yang Moo-jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies, disagreed, say­ing Kim Jong II is believed to be focusing more on consolidating his support base rather than appointing his successor, which would quickly erode his power and "'worsen his health condi­tion."' 
U.S. and its allies have pres­sured Kim's communist regime for years to give up its nuclear and missile development pro­grams. The standoff intensified after the North's April 5 launch of a rocket it called a satellite. Regional powers argued it was a test of advanced missile technol­ogy. 
The U.N. condemned the launch. In response, the North pledged to boyeott six-nation nuclear talks, expelled interna­tional nuclear monitors and reactivated its facilities to har­vest plutonium for atomic weapons. 


THE 

BSERVER 

Join the campus organization that brings the news to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses every day. 
We're looking for new staff in all departments. 
Join The Observer staff. Contact us today. 
News  Madeline Buckley (mbuckley@nd.edu)  
Ashley Charnley (acharnOl@saintmarys.edu)  
Sports  Matt Gamber (mgamber@nd.edu)  
Scene  Jess Shaffer (jshaffel@nd.edu)  
Photo  Ian Gavlick (igavlick@nd.edu)  

I
' 
THE OBSERVER
I 
' 
IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 27, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

The proxy war 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez Ao DESIGN MANAGER: MaryJesse CONTROlLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574} 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574} 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questions "larding Obst!7Ver policks should be directed to Editor-in-Chiif]mn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oboe""' (USPS 599 2~000);, publi>hal Mon<J.y through Friday acqn during wun and vacnitm periods, A subscription to The Observer is $120 for on< a:cadcmk year. S65 for one senlt:$rer, 
The Ol=vet ;, published "" POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining HoB Send addrtss Ct:lrreccions-to: 
Not« 0...., IN 4655/i-(1779 TheO'-"e, 
Pcriodi.CIII posrage pald aE Notre Dame P.O.llax779 and adtUtiooaJ mailing officu. 02-4 South Dining Hatt 
Notte 0..,.,. IN 46556-<l719 

1bc Observer in member of the:~ Press, All reproduction r%hu a" 
""'""'"· 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Robert Singer Laura Myers Becky Hogan Meaghan Veselik 
Laura McCrystal Mike Gotimer Graphics Chris Masoud Mary Cecilia Scene Mitsch Joey Kuhn Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 
Poor Randall Terry. He has pro­claimed himself heir to Martin Luther King, Jr., a divinely-inspired mystic, and the leader of a capital-C Crusade to purge the church of its "treacherous elements." His unofficial inquisi­tion is armed not only with pictures of fetuses and sex­ual metaphors ("this is like the rape of Catholic orthodoxy, sociolo­gy and justice"), but also with an unerring ability to find its way into the pages of The Observer at least twice a week. If we believe the media -national or local, including this paper -we might get the impression that huge ideological battles are sweeping Notre Dame's political land­scape. But on the ground, things seem far less histrionic. 
True, the abortion debate has a much higher public profile than it did in January. But there is no circus at Notre Dame, except an imaginary one that exists in the media and in the minds of a few vocal partisans. And Terry's message hasn't clicked with the vast majority of the Notre Dame com-munity. The man who has literally said "hate is good" has, true to form, lashed out not only at expected targets (the president, the University adminis­tration) but also at Notre Dame Response for being "deluded and dilut­ed," and at Bishop D'Arcy, whose statements have condemned both the University and Terry himself. Unsurprisingly, most members of the Notre Dame community have realized that Terry is a member of what Teddy Hoosevelt called the "lunatic fringe" ­and have kept him where he belongs: at arm's length. 

So I'd be extremely surprised if any­one's opinion about abortion has changed all that mueh thanks to protests, television soundbites or even snotty newspaper columns like this one. After all, the furor over President Obama's upeoming speech is not entirely, or even mostly, about abor­tion. Instead, people are using it as an excuse to bring up myriad other debates. Does a Catholic university have to somehow reeoncile its reli­gious and instructional goals, or is there no dichotomy there at all? Is adherenee to orthodoxy the ultimate standard to which Notre Dame should hold any or all its representatives? Should a Church, facing declining membership (down 2 million since 2006) and scandal, align itself with single-issue hyperpartisans like Randall Terry, or opt for a different strategy? And what is the last arbiter of moral outrage -and political action -for Catholics: its ecclesiastical hier­archy, or the individual worshipper? 
Almost no one pays lip service to the fact that Notre Dame's commencement is a ceremony for students anymore. But the competition for campus-wide attention (even more so than the national spotlight) shows how much people of all political and ideological stripes are competing for the hearts and minds of Notre Dame graduates. For those of you who are about to graduate, remember that from here on out, you'll be thrown into a world of groupthink and mutual ignoranee, where political engagement consists simply of talking past one another and exchanging half-truths and innuen­does. If we've taught you well, you'll continue to engage in critical, princi­pled reflection on ideas and issues long after you leave campus. 
Darryl Campbell is a second-year graduate student in history, and also writes for the Web publication The Bygone Bureau at www. bygonebureau. com 
He can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The golden opportunity JJOU are 
seeking is in yourself It zs not in "It is no longer good enough to cryyour environment; it is not in luck peace, we must act peace, or chance, or the help ofothers; live peace and live in peace." 
it is in yourself alone." 
American Indian proverb
Orison Swett Marden American writer 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
What karaoke really is 
Dear Organizers of Badin Breakdown, 
The Badin Breakdown is not really karaoke, plain and simple. Winners of a karaoke contest should not be people with years of vocal instruction or people that performed a song they practiced for months on end to sing at their high school chorus concert. The art of karaoke is not practiced in concert halls or rehearsal rooms, it is practiced in grungy bars on weeknights with people that can barely stand up straight. 
Go to any local grungy bar Monday through Friday and observe some of the artists that take the stage. Those are true karaokeist with the ability to perform any song at a moments notice. I once observed a man perform three songs by the Highway Men and then he pulled out "99 Problem's" by Jay-Z. He then proceeded to do a heavy metal tune, just because I asked him to. The place went wild. That is what karaoke is; the abil­ity to entertain across multiple genera of music and the ability to get everyone to enjoy the show. The judges and organizers of the Badin Breakdown would know this if they ever attended such bars and partici­pated in such karaoke events. 
But alas, as Notre Dame students, most of us are too good to go to such establishments and experience the fun that is real karaoke. Go to any good karaoke bar and sing "My Heart Will Go On" by Celine Dion and then watch yourself be stared at awkwardly, asked if you are contemplating suicide and be greeted by over­whelming sounds of silence afterwards. That is the reaction you would get at a good karaoke bar for singing such a song. At the Badin Breakdown, howev­er, you'll win $75 because you performed the song for your junior year state vocal competition. Someone please gag me with a spoon and punch me in the stomach. This isn't karaoke; this is "American Idol." I thought there was a different competition on campus for that? 
Someone, quick, get me another High Life and drive me to Cheers, Garth Brook's ''I've Got Friends in Low Places" awaits me. 
Tim Campbell senior Dillon Hall April23 
Liberal Catholicism_ 

"We believe in one holy, Catholic and apostolic Church" (Nicene Creed). What does "Catholic" mean? And what does it mean when we say "Catholic Church?" 
The Greek word "katholikos" means "universal" (thus making the term "Roman Catholic" not only an oxymoron but also a mix of Latin and Greek). The term was first used after the Christian Church got used to being called Christian. The reality of it is that Christian was meant to be an insult. The Greeks and Jews used it to call the believers "followers of Christ," pointing out that they didn't worship the Greek gods nor did they follow the normal Jewish customs. After a while, the believers took pride in this term. When the leadership of the Church (viz Paul and Peter in Acts) allowed Gentiles into their ranks, they earned the distinction of being "universal." Fast forward a few centuries. The Church gets the distinction of Roman after Great Schism. It becomes a matter of Rome versus Constantinople. Hence, we end up with Greek Orthodox and Roman Catholic. 
Within the last few centuries, the Catholic Church has distinguished itself in as a conservative way as possible. Trent and Vatican I established the Church in a reactionary light. Then, in the 20th century, figures such as Thomas Merton and Dorothy Day step into the picture, both of them "left­ists." Then, after the reactions of Trent and Vatican I, Vatican II comes along and establishes many liberal policies for the Church. Pope John Paul II then preaches his doctrine of solidarity and we have Mother Theresa of Calcutta. Over the course of 50 years, the big figures of the Church become some of the most liberal figures in the world. Thus, the term "universal" truly becomes applicable. On one hand we have such conservative figures as Cardinal Ratzinger, and on the other hand, we have people like Dorothy Day. In the Catholic Tradition one can be anarchist, Republican, Democratic, socialist, capitalist or libertarian. 
So here's where it becomes applicable. In the news recently and in Viewpoint articles, Notre Dame has received a lot of flack for allowing President Obama to speak at our Commencement. Some proclaim that this is against our Catholic identity. But, truth be told, it seems as though not only is taking a leftist stance within Catholic tradition, but there are, in fact, great examples for it. 
Levi Checketts junior Stanford Hall April24 
Respect for Obam_a 
I received Randall Terry's letter to alumni. It reminded me of the day before the election, when the NRA called. You can guess what they thought was the most seri­ous issue facing the nation. Yes, with everything that was going on, they were wor­ried that President Obama might restrict their access to semi-automatic weapons. I know that Mr. Terry views his cause as unassailably right, a moral cause -the president as Pontius Pilate. It doesn't matter so much if his government wages war, kills live souls, allows torture, ignores social injustice or permits the world environ­ment to degrade for future generations, just as long as it polices pregnant women. 
If I were inclined to write Pope Benedict, I might suggest that his statements in Africa on condoms were backward and counterproductive in the extreme, although I would still be happy to let him speak at Notre Dame. Academic freedom and the First Amendment are not just words to me. Mr. Terry and his friends are misguid­ed, and I am confident that Notre Dame will treat President Obama with the respect and kindness that he certainly deserves. 
Fred Torrisi alum class of 1970 April26 

Christian soldiers 
To those who are above torture or advanced interrogation techniques, I applaud you. You are lucky to be able to take the moral high ground and wash your hands clean of the dirt of the real world. Christian soldiers like me and Christie Pesavento will defend that option for you. You can condemn people like us, but the fact of the matter is you need people like us. We are trying to defend your freedom to dissent, to worship, to exist. Christian soldiers have to be strong in order for the rest to be weak and follow Christ. 
So go ahead and talk us down as evil doers, but realize that we will sacrifice so that others may live in peace. 
Mark Easley freshman Keenan Hall April25 

Catholic bishops have a policy that says "Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defi­ance of our [Catholic] fundamental moral princi­ples." Upon taking office, Obama lifted Bush admin­istration restrictions on funding for abortions and for embryonic stem cell research, as he had prom­ised to do. Both actions violated fundamental Catholic principles on the protection of human life. Although the bishops' policy is directed at dissident Catholic politicians such as Sen. Ted Kennedy, Notre Dame is being criticized for puttiqg institutional prestige ahead of moral principle by allowing its graduating class to hear from the president of the United States, who is not a Catholic. 
And at least some Catholic bishops agree with the critics. Already, Bishop John D'Arcy, in whose Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese Notre Dame lies, has announced that he will not attend the president's speech, having failed to persuade the University to withdraw its invitation. Other bishops are likely to join D'Arcy in distancing themselves from the University. 
In 1992, when Notre Dame conferred its highest honor, the Laetare Medal, on Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a low-key pro-choice Democrat who opposed "partial-birth" abortions, New York's Cardinal John O'Connor flew to South Bend for a meeting of the American bishops at Notre Dame but in protest refused to step on our campus. 
Welcotne Obatna 
I am an alumnus of Notre Dame. I am adamantly pro-life, independent as a voter -and greatly pleased that Obama has agreed to speak at my alma mater. He joins six other sitting presidents going back to Dwight D. Eisenhower-including George 
W. Bush-who have addressed the University. Politically, I had disagreements with each of them. Yet I never supposed that by granting them the Commencement podium the University was signaling its approval of their policies. Neither, now, should the bishops. 
On the dais at Notre Dame, Obama will find a familiar face: Harvard Law professor Mary Ann Glendon, Bush's ambassador to the Vatican, who will receive this year's Laetare Medal in part for her peerless defense of human life. It's important that the president hear her message as well as deliver his own. It is equally important that this kind of engage­ment take place at a university devoted to both faith and reason. Where else but in a university setting should we expect this kind of principled presentation of issues? 
No question, Notre Dame will pay a price for doing what a Catholic university can and should do. The Internet is smoking with protests from conservative Catholic bloggers and pro-life Web sites. One of them claims to have collected 206,000 signatures opposing the president's appearance. These pressure groups are aghast that "Our Lady's University" would wel­come so resolute an opponent of the Church's posi­tion on abortion. Some alumni, especially Republicans, are threatening to withhold contribu­tions and bequests. The Vatican is receiving e-mail demanding disciplinary action. Catholicism is not a sect that shuns the world as evil. As a body, the American hierarchy has usually been both principled and open to political engagement. The bishops have congratulated the new president on his victory and pledged to work with him on issues affecting social and economic justice. Do they now find him morally unfit to speak at a Catholic university? 
Obama is not coming to Notre Dame to press a pro­choice agenda but to address issues that affect all American citizens, including Catholics. He will be speaking to students who, like other Americans, gave him a majority of their votes. He will receive an honorary degree because it is the custom, not as a blessing on any of his decisions. American bishops should remember that it was only a few decades ago that a Catholic was considered unfit for the White House. Do they now believe that a sitting president is unfit to address a Catholic university? It's time the bishops gave a clear and principled response. 
Jon Holland grad student Sarin College April23 

I
I 
page 12 


This Week's Mix -Getting Ready for the Dog Days 


1 
2 
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
1 0 11 
by Stephanie DePrez 
.., "Bend and Not Break"-Dashboard Confessional 
'frll · IIAmerican Baby" -Dave Matthews Y'! 1/BetterThan"-John ButlerTrio 
'tt/f "looking At the World from the Bottom ofaWell"-Mike Doughty 
-..1 
'tt/I"Silver Lining"-Rilo Kiley 
~ "Lay Me Down"-Crosby & Nash 'tt/I"The Captain"-Guster \II "See the World"-Gomez 
---.J 
-.If "Spinning"-Jack's Mannequin ~ "Summertime"-Mae ~ "Swing Life Away"-Rise Against 

Heres to summer. Heres to cold drinks, tank tops, shorts, loud rnusic, getting wet, falling asleep on the grass, warm nights, fast cars and aviator sunglasses. 
11 songs, 1 Chill Session 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
"As long as the music goes on"... 

~·~ \o. 
stoopi5 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Scene Writer 
On Friday night students gathered outside of Legends, forming a line that ran down the side­walk, to see the much anticipated reggae/punk band Slightly Stoopid. This performance at Legends kicked off a short tour for the band including Notre Dame, the University of Hhode Island, Boston College, Burlington in Vermont and West Palm Beach in Plorida. 
Currently, Slightly Stoopid is composed of Miles Doughty, guitar, bass and vocals; Kyle McDonald, guitar, bass and vocals; Ryan Moran, drums; Oguer Ocon, congas, percussion, harp and vocals; DeLa, saxophone; and C-money, trumpet and keyboard. Co-frontmen Miles Doughty and Kyle McDonald are lifelong friends and have been playing together since they were in high school. The current band has been more or less together for the past five years. 
After meeting and shaking hands with each of the band members, Scene sat down on the couches at Legends and spoke with saxophonist DeLa and drummer Ryan Moran (RyMo). They were both laid-back and easy to talk to, which was not surprising, as the band prides itself on being "ultra-chill." 
Slightly Stoopid describes their music as "a fusion of acoustic rock and blues with reggae, hip-hop, and punk." The band does not try to squeeze into a single musical category ­instead, they just play how they feel. Said DeLa, "(We play] everything from tons and tons of reg­gae to jazz ... everyone has their own thing they really like ... [for example,] Miles likes classic rock." When the band jams, each member brings in a difl'erent style that is reflective of the music he likes or has been listening to recently. 
When asked if there is one word or phrase that is representative of their sound, DeLa immediately said, "I think it's 'So-Cal.' It's really just that." 
Slightly Stoopid is known to have an excep­tionally diverse fan base known as "Stoopidheads." In general, the fan base has a fairly young demographic, but fans range from high school students to people in their late 50s. Explained DeLa, "It has to do with our collective group of music [tastes] -it brings in all kinds of people." In addition to the wide age range, the fan base of Slightly Stoopid also transcends cultural divides. They have a high number of Latino and Islander fans. The group often tours with Jamaican reggae musieians, and then fans of those artists will hop on the "Stoopidhead" bandwagon as well. 
HyMo and DeLa spoke of how the band strives to present a unique eoncert each time they per­form. Sometimes one band member ehanges things up a bit and the rest of the band will just have to keep their ears open to make the neces­sary adjustments. It makes for a more exciting experience. HyMo said, "We don't ever play the same thing twice. Things vary every night -it's part of the way we do things." 
Stoopid opened with a few improv-type num­bers, highlighting the saxophone. During "Ocean," the audienee simulated the movement of waves with their hands and swayed to the lengthy sax solos. The band also played "This Joint" and "Till It Gets Wet." When the intro began for "Bandelero," California-born students exploded in excitement for the song, a tribute their home state. 
Said freshman Dan McQuarrie, "They have a 
Monday, April27, 2009 

very unique sound which is relaxing yet dance­able, and it made for a great concert experi­ence. I had only started listening to Slightly Stoopid a few weeks ago, so I was very excited to hear that they were coming to play at Legends." 
At one point in the night it seemed that people were getting a little too stupid for Stoopid because Legends staff members had to walk across the front of the stage to make sure excit­ed fans did not get too close. Finally, a member of Slightly Stoopid grabbed the microphone and politely asked everyone to take "one step back" so as not to crush "these guys in the front." 
At about 11:30 the band exited the stage, and the erowd shouted for an "Encore!" After a short wait with scattered, nervous whispers of "They're not doing an encore?" the band resumed their places and asked the crowd what they wanted to hear. Responding to the enthusi­astic "Col-lie-man! Col-lie man!" Slightly Stoopid delivered "Collie Man," one of their most popular songs. This was certainly a crowd favorite. Said McQuarrie, "My friend and I were waiting all night for them to play [Collie Man]. and when they played the first few notes the crowd just erupted. It was intense." Excitedly, the audience began to sway, sing along. dance with their friends and yell, "It doesn't really matter as long as the music goes on!" A few songs later, Stoopid played "Closer to the Sun," another one of their better known songs. Despite the exceptional improvisation and less­er-known numbers the band performed throughout the night, "Collie Man" and "Closer to the Sun" .were the songs that many audience members had been eagerly waiting for. 
When asked if there is a difference perform­ing in their home state and elsewhere, both RyMo and DeLa agreed that it is generally "more fun out of Cali." Outside of their home state, they said, people don't know their family or their entire background and history. The audience can just accept the performance for what it is. 
Slightly Stoopid tours about seven months of the year. They will kick off their "Blazed and Confused" summer tour on July 10 with Snoop Dogg and Stephen Marley, and they are plan­ning on going abroad to Europe in the fall of 2009. 
The pair explained that they approach per­formances at colleges and universities the same way they approach any other concert. "We go into every room with the same energy. We come in to the space and have a good time. We want to get the kids going and pumped up. We do the same thing if there are five or 500 people in the audience." ~ 
According to freshman Mike Flynn, a So-Cal native, the Stoopid concert was the "best show at Legends this year." He said, "''ve been listen­ing to Slightly for a few years now, and they def­initely know how to put on a show. Coming from Southern California, I've been to a few skalpunk shows and [Slightly Stoopid is] definitely my favorite." 
RyMo explained that before each perform­ance, "We say, let's come together and deliver this." And deliver it they did. Eager fans sighed disappointedly as the lights in Legends were turned on around 11:50, crushing their hopes for one last encore. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsen@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, April27, 2009 
page 13 

By JOEY KUHN 
Assist<nt Scene Ediror 
Local band Half-Pint Jones will be recording a music video at Legends Thursday at 8 p.m. The band has extended an invitation to anyone in the Notre Dame community to come and be an extra in the video shoot. Afterwards, the band will also play a set for those in attendance. 
Half-Pint Jones is hard to catego­rize, but their sound falls closest to jazz-rock fusion with heavy funk and 
R&B influences. Formed in the after­math of Hurricane Katrina, the group tries to preserve New Orleans' cultural heritage and soul-fla­vored sound in their music. Their songs blend jazz-style improvisation on trumpet, saxophone and guitar with tra­ditional rock struc­tures and singing. 
The band just released their second 
It,s hard to even think of Living up to its name, though, the song
Half-Pint Jones as a 

quickly shifts gears "rock band,,, because most into a more mellow 
groove. oftheir songs sound more The last few songs on the album are
like sophisticated jazz completely instru­mental, giving the
with a little bit ofrock and 

members of Half-Pint funk thrown in for good Jones a chance to 
show off their true measure. improvisational skill. 
album "Single File," for which they tried to focus their sound into three­to four-minute compositions. Their first album, "Trilogy of Patches and Olaf," mostly consisted of long, linear jams, whereas the second album fea­tures mostly shorter songs. Still, the band manages to preserve the essence of their sultry New Orleans style on these shorter songs, and the album contains a few longer jams towards the end as well. 
"Single File" opens up with "Moist Air," on which Justin Ross flexes his pipes with a smooth, bluesy melody, singing, "I don't like you but now here's one thing that you should do I Don't you just fall in love even though a man may look at you." 

The band also displays a softer side in ballads such as "Pain" and "Ryn," a sweet love song with an R&B groove. 
Half-Pint Jones shows its diversity of musical tastes throughout the album. "Marks Ballgame" would be perfect for a conga line with its Latin­tinged sound and simple, feel-good lyrics: "Please feel free to shake your 

Single File Half-Pint Jones 
booty all night long!" 

"Jam Sandwich for Jonas" features a Cuban percussion rhythm paired with peppery horn licks reminiscent of ska or mariachi bands. According to the band's Web site, the song is a tribute to the saxophone player's son. 
It's hard to even think of Half-Pint Jones as a "rock band," because most of their songs sound more like sophis­ticated jazz with a little bit of rock and funk thrown in for good measure. 
"A Mixture of Things" starts off with a bebop feel, the tenor sax, trumpet, 
guitar and bass going 
at it with zany speed. 
Loosening their 
self-imposed length restriction, the aptly named "Indulgence" lasts almost 10 minutes, but it's well worth a listen to hear saxophonist Chris Olivier, a New Orleans native, channel John Coltrane through his horn. 
"Love 'Dem Changes" is an upbeat, funky post-modern jazz piece featur­ing both Olivier and trumpeter Mark Gamble. 
This is clearly a group that loves music and has as much fun playing as fans do listening. They don't show a refreshingly light sense of humor on several songs, especially "Bachelor," a song about the single life containing lyrics such as "Strolled to the kitchen for breakfast I At the time when most are eating lunch I My biggest decision of the day I Is scrambled eggs or Captain Crunch!" 
Drummer Steve "Krojo" Krojniewski also played a song with Umphrey's McGee at the Morris Performing Art Center on April 18, but the perform­ers thought it would be funny to pre­tend that he was U2's guitarist The Edge, to whom he bears a striking resemblance. 
Half-Pint Jones is probably not for everyone; a listener who does not have at least a minimal appreciation for improvisational jazz, roots rock and world music might not enjoy their unique blend of musical genres. But if you like trying new things and you want to know just what the South Bend music scene has to offer, don't hesitate to go to Legends to see this band and be in their music video. Who knows? It might be famous someday. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 

This Week's Mix -Mixing ItUp With Mash-Ups 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
byJordan Gamble 

-.,;I "Single ladies (In Mayberry)"'-Party Ben 
"Single Ladies (Put a Ring on ttr by Beyonce with The Andy Griffith Show theme song 
This wins for the award for most seemingly incongruous combination. But somehow the whistling and Beyonce's sassy tune, both catchyin theirown right.fit together in this eerily appropriate pairing. partyben.com 
--'i "United State ofPop 2008,.-OJ EarwormBand 
The top songs of2008 woven together and settled on top of the strings-section hook ofColdplay's'Vida La Vida."' 
Were you abroad in 2008, without access to MTV or i American Top 40 radio? Still not caught up ftve months ! later? Then just listen to this masterful mash-up a couple
-of times. It incorporates 25 of last year's most popular songs in a fluid, four-minute recap of hooks and catchy lyrics. 
HHow Six Songs Collide"-Norwegian Recycling 
"''m Yours"' by Jason Mraz. "'Superman"' by Ftve for Fighting, "Collide" by Howie ~ "Here Without You"' by Three Doors Down, "'Always Getting Over You"' by Angelo Ammon~ ond "All ThatI Need"byBoyzone 

A modem mash-up dassic. this song has been floating around for a couple of years now -it incorporated •am Yours" before It even hit radio waves last spring. While many mash-ups are dance mixes, this one is more a sing-along-In-the-car ballad. norwegianrecycling.multiply.com 
-.;i "Dance Dreams"-Divide & Kreate
__, 

"Just DoncenbyLadyGaga with "Sweet Dreams" 
byThe Eurythmics 
As if Lady Gaga's music wasn't addictive enough, Divide & Kreate laid the lyrics over Eurythmics' iconic synthesizer bass line. It works surprisingly well -the new version of "'Just Dance" sounds so organic you'd think the song was written with the HSweet Dreams" sampling in mind. divideandkreate.com 
~j Feed the Animals-Girl Talk 
322 different songs in onealbum-length mash-up 
With his feverish, ingenious mixing, Girt Talk routinely sells out his sweaty and raucous concerts. Calling the album a mash-up doesn't really do it justice. Girl Talk doesn't just stick a couple of songs together -the DJ and producer
-· 
picks out snippets of beats and vocals, weaving them together into entirely different music. With Feed the Animals on hand,dorm parties should never need an iPod playlist.illegal-art.net 
5 songs, 1 Chill Session 

Observer Graphic I MARY CECILIA MITSCH 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 27, 2009 
NBA 

Bulls take down Celtics after 2 OTs in Game 4 
LeBron puts up impressive numbers to lead Cavs, 99-78, over Pistons and sweep conference first round 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Another playoff thriller between Chicago and Boston, and this one went to the Bulls. 
If the Celtics want to advance, they're going to have to earn it. 
Ben Gordon scored 22 points, hitting the tying 3­pointer in the first overtime, and the Bulls beat the defend­ing champions 121-118 in double overtime Sunday to tie their first-round series at two games apiece. 
The teams split two tight games in Boston, before the Celtics blew out the Bulls in Game 3. This time, they stretched the drama into a second overtime. 
"Everybody I'm talking to is saying this is the most excit­ing series that they're watch­ing right now," Gordon said. 
It's tough to argue. 
Derrick Rose added 23 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists. John Salmons scored 20 points after a slow start, hitting four free throws in the final 26 seconds of the game and blocking Paul Pierce's tying 3-pointer. 
Boston's Ray Allen buried a 3-pointer with 9.8 seconds left in regulation to tie it at 96 before Rose missed a poten­tial winning fadeaway in the closing seconds. Gordon came through with 4.5 seconds left in the first overtime, hitting a 3-pointer over Pierce to tie it at 110, and the Bulls never trailed in the second OT. 
Salmons hit two free throws with 26 seconds left and, after a 3-pointer by Pierce, he hit two more at the line. After a timeout, Pierce got the ball on the left side but couldn't shake Salmons, who deflected his 3-pointer. 
It was a dramatic end to another dramatic game. The series goes back to Boston, where the Bulls took Game 1 in overtime and the Celtics won Game 2 by three, on Tuesday. 
"It's 2-2 and we're in a fight," Boston's Rajon Rondo said. "Give them a lot of cred­it. They stuck with it. They fought back. They executed down the stretch very well and we didn't." 
Pierce led Boston with 29 points, although he was just 9-for-24. Allen added 28, and Rajon Rondo again hounded the Bulls, finishing with 25 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists -his second triple­double of the series. 

"We've been here before," Allen said. "That's [what] bothered me so much about this one, because we had opportunities." 
Rose, who was outplayed by Rondo in the previous two games, again had trouble hanging onto the ball. He committed seven turnovers for the second straight time, but made up for it with 13 points in the fourth quarter. 
Gordon also came through late even though he strained his left hamstring in the sec­ond quarter and is scheduled for an MRI on Monday. 
Kirk Hinrich added 18 points while containing Pierce. Tyrus Thomas had 14 points and 10 rebounds, and Joakim Noah scored 12 while grabbing 10 boards. The Bulls prevailed despite missing some key free throws down the stretch and were 26 of 35 overall. 
"We've got a lot of fight in us, and I'm really happy for the young guys," Gordon said. 
The Celtics led by five in the first OT and were still up 110­107 after Allen hit two free throws with 9 seconds left. They were then supposed to foul, but instead, Gordon buried another dramatic 3. 
He got the ball near the top of the key 

pointers from every angle, drove into the lane for dunks and leaned into low post moves. 
He was just getting warmed up -2 hours before tipoff ­and his regular routine pro­vided another demonstration of greatness. 
James had 36 points, 13 rebounds and eight assists to lead the Cleveland Cavaliers to a victory over the Detroit Pistons on Sunday, sweeping the Eastern Conference first­round series. 
The 24-year-old superstar said his work ethic has been "everything" in a breathtak­ing career that has surpassed unprecedented hype. 
"You're only born with a certain amount of gifts," he said. "You have to take advantage of them, and put in the work. My work ethic has helped me be the player I am today." 
Cavs coach Mike Brown said James is a "workaholic," and relayed an anecdote about his son being in awe of James lifting weights and going through individual drills dur­ing last offseason. 
"I said, 'LeBron doesn't just show up at the game with a Superman outfit on,"' Brown 
recalled saying 
to his son. 
James and 

dunk -and helped put the Pistons away for good with a 16-6 run midway through the third quarter. 
Mo Williams scored a career playoff-high 24 and Delonte West had 12 points for the Cavs. 
"Mo was fantastic, Delonte was fantastic," Brown said. "And obviously, LeBron was LeBron. Again, he almost had a triple-double." 
James had 25 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists in Game 3. 
In the final game of what was a miserable season, Detroit's Antonio McDyess had 26 points to tie a career playoff high, Will Bynum scored a career playoff-high 22 and Rodney Stuckey had 14. 
"It's been a unique season, a difficult season," Curry said. "It's the first time this group has gone through any rough stretches." 
Detroit was in the confer­ence finals the past six years, the longest such streak in the NBA since the Los Angeles Lakers' run two decades ago. The Pistons, the only Eastern Conference team in the play­offs for an eighth straight year, had advanced in each of the previous seven postsea­sons. 
James has led the Cavs into the playoffs the past four years, winning at least one series each time. 
Cleveland lost to the Pistons in the second round of the 2006 playoffs, got past them the next year in the confer­ence finals en route to its first NBA finals appearance and was eliminated by the eventual champion Boston Celtics in the second round last year. 
The Cavs will face the win­ner of the Atlanta-Miami series, which the Heat lead 2­1 heading into Monday night's game at home. The best-of­seven series could end as late as Sunday, May 3. 
"For us to get a week off before our next game is big," James said. 
When James joined his teammates for warmups before Game 4, Cleveland fans seemed to outnumber Detroit supporters and he waved his arms in the air to encourage them to be even louder. 
"It's great to be in Cleveland," Cavs radio broad­caster Joe Tait joked. 
James gave them plenty to cheer about early, especially on a spectacular dunk, and ignited more "M-V-P!" chants by a slam that put the Cavs ahead 86-69. 
"He deserved it," Bynum said. "He dominated from Game 1 through Game 4." 
In the final minutes of the game, "Let's Go Cavs!" chants could easily be heard as frus­trated fans of the Pistons exit­ed. 
"It was just embarrassing," McDyess said. 
Rasheed Wallace was score­less, missing all seven of his shots, in what was probably his last game with the Pistons unless they make a stunning move and re-sign him as a free agent. 
and dribbled to 'That's what happens the top-seeded his right, hit­Cavs were so
when you take care 
ting the tying efficient against
ofbusiness."
shot over past-its-prime Pierce. Rondo Detroit -earn­then missed a LeBron James ing the only jumper, sending Cavaliers forward sweep of this 
it into a second OT. 

"We always foul, but even when you screw it up, they've still got to hit the shot and Ben Gordon made a hell of a shot," Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. 
In the second OT, Noah dunked over Glen Davis to make it a four-point game with 1:26 left. Pierce missed a 3-pointer, and with the crowd chanting his name, Noah sank a free throw to make it 117­112 with 35 seconds remain­ing. 
Pierce converted a three­point play to pull Boston with­in two, but Salmons came up big at the line before making the big block to preserve the win. 
"This team has a lot of heart, has a lot of character," Salmons said. 
Cavaliers 99, Pistons 78 

LeBron James made 3­
postseason ­
they might be 
off for more than a week, waiting for Atlanta or Miami to advance. 
"That's what happens when you take care of business," James said. 
Detroit, meanwhile, will have its longest offseason since 2001 and about $20 mil­lion in salary-cap space to rebuild a once-proud team that fell apart after trading Chauncey Billups in November. 
"It's sort of the changing of the guard," Pistons coach Michael Curry said. "I knew once we traded Chauncey, we were going to be a different team." 
Even with Billups, the Pistons would've probably had a tough time getting past James and his dramatically improved surrounding cast. 
James made his first four shots -including a windmill 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Why pay for 12 months? Rental House 1 mile from ND, on HISTORIC HOME -3br Clover Ridge Apt. for Summer ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple Now offering 1 0-month leases. TRANSPO route. CHAPIN PK. Sublet. $1 000/mth. 404-200-3330 looking to adopt a baby (babies), FOR SALE New kitchen, bath, windows & car-2800 slf +base., 5 bedroom house 1 05 Marquette. please call Marie and James 
Bluegoldrentals.com pet. 2 bedrooms, 2 living rooms & L.R. wlfp. Great neighborhood, refinished Condo for Sale 1564 Sq Ft 3 bdr 2 ---------------dining room. APPLIANCES 4 bdrms,study +finished 3rd fl. hardwood floors. Washer and (301)977-5069 or (866)202-1424 baths 2 car garage Basement Sun Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. INCLUDED. Call Linda 574-288-Full appliances+ W&D,3 porches. D!):er. 574-232-6964. PIN 5448. Porch Quiet neighborhood 6 mile 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. 0168. 413 W. Navarre. --------------­south of University $130k 574-291-Leasing fast. ---------------$1350+Util UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 2306 3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on PERSONAL ---------------Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are ND 574-261-3184 or email Do not go it alone. We have many Womans ND dinner ring, size 7. www.kramerhouses.com alums. Pis call/text 619-804-3359. escargot55@hotmail.com or resources in place to assist you. If $400. 574-272-8027. ------------------------------www.xog.com/property/413WNavar If you or someone you care about you or someone you love needs 
2009/1 0 student rentals Oft-Campus housing at Dublin re.html has been sexually assaulted, visit confidential support or assistance, Village, Irish Crossings. Now up to ---------------Support Services for Victims of please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $100 oft per room per month with Professor s home near ND Rape & Assault at: or Ann Firth at 1-2685.
FoR RENT 

$1300-$2000/mo. an application by May 15. available summer session. andersonNDrentals.com FREE Contact Bruce Gordon Call CES Property Management at http:1/osa.nd.edulhealth-Learn about available assistance at: COMCAST! 57 4-876-3537. 57 4-968-0112. 574-233-8855 or 574-387-4205. safety/assault! http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu 

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April27, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
-·-·-·-·····-·-····-···-·-·····---·-··-·--··-·-············::::::::::::::::::....:::::::::::::::--·-··-·····--·-···········--··----······--··..·····~-·-·--··-·-·-·······-··········-·········-··-·····-·············--·-··········--···--·-····--··--·--···-··---·--······-··-··············-·-······::::::::::::.:::::::::::::.::.::::::::::..:::.:.:::::=::.:::::.:.:.:.:.:::················-···-· ...... .. 
NFL 
NCAA Women's Tennis ITA Division I Top 25 
team points 

1 Northwestern 84 2 Duke 75 3 Georgia 74 4 NOTRE DAME 69 5 Baylor 68 6 Miami (Fla.) 67 7 Southern California 63 8 California 62 9 Georgia Tech 61 10 Tennessee 52 11 UCLA 51 12 Clemson 50 13 Stanford 49 14 Arkansas 47 15 Florida 43 16 Fresno State 42 17 Florida State 41 18 Michigan 40 19 Vanderbilt 39 20 North Carolina 38 20 SMU 34 22 South Carolina 33 23 LSU 32 24 Alabama 30 25 Kentucky 29 
NCAA Women's Lacrosse IWLCA Division I Top 20 
team points record 

1 Northwestern (20) 400 15-0 2 Maryland 376 16·0 3 Penn 361 13-0 4 North Carolina 335 13-3 5 Duke 319 11-4 6 Princeton 287 11-2 7 Georgetown 271 11-4 8 Syracuse 257 12-3 9 Virginia 251 10-6 10 Vanderbilt 219 9-4 11 NOTRE DAME 211 12-4 12 Boston U. 171 11-3 13 Ohio State 130 11-4 14 Stanford 127 10-4 15 Penn State 108 1·1 16 Dartmouth 103 7-5 17 Loyola (Md.) 77 10-5 18 Old Dominion 50 11-3 19 New Hampshire 46 10-6 20 Cornell 42 8-5 
NCAA Men's Volleyball AVCA ~· Division 1-11 Top 15 
team points 
1 UC Irvine (16} 248),)f':i;; .. 
2 Cal Stale Northridge 
215···· 3 Pepperdine 212 4 Stanford 187,.,,,.,... 5 BYtJ 164; 6 Penn State 1.58 
153 .. ,,7 Southern California 
<+:'/·· 138·:·:·:·:·:··:·:
8 Long Beach State 9 UCLA 116 10 UC San Diego 
94 11 Ohio Slate '•;J 12 Lewis 50 13 Hawaii 41 14 Loyola (Ul.} 
15 UC Santa Barbara 

around the dial 
NHL Playoffs 

San Jose at Anaheim (ANA leads 3-2) 
10:30 p.m., Versus 
NBA Playoffs 
Utah at Los Angeles (LA leads 3-1) 
10:30 p.m., TNT 


Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­When Michael Crabtree unexpectedly slipped to the lOth pick in Saturday's NFL draft, the San Francisco 49ers eagerly caught their highest-profile receiver since Terrell Owens left town. 
Crabtree claimed he was delighted to join the 49ers after his record-setting career at Texas Tech, where he won the Biletnikoff Award as the nation's best college receiv­er after each of his two seasons. He was widely considered the best pass­catcher in the draft, and San Francisco was thrilled 
IN BRIEF 

Kinf!s fire interim coach 
Natl and assistants 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -The Sacramento Kings fired interim coach Kenny Natt and his four assistants Thursday, a week after the club finished with the NBA's worst record. 
The Kings, once a model of stabili­ty during eight consecutive winning seasons and playoff appearances under coach Rick Adelman, will be looking for their fourth coach since Adelman was fired in 2006 by own­ers Joe and Gavin Maloof. 
Natt, a longtime NBA assistant for Jerry Sloan and Mike Brown, was promoted after Sacramento fired Reggie Theus on Dec. 15. Natt went 11-47 in charge of the Kings, who finished 17-65. 
Natt wasn't thought to be in the Kings' long-term plans, which was confirmed when the club formally announced it wouldn't pick up his contract option for next year. 
to address its longtime dearth of star talent at the position where Jerry Rice, Dwight Clark, John Taylor and Owens once excelled. 
"We had no idea he would be there at 10," coach Mike Singletary said. "It was one of the last sce­narios we thought we would end up with. He's been one of the best guys, the past couple of years in college football." 
Crabtree is among the college game's most dynamic playmakers of recent years, catching 231 passes for 3,127 yards and 41 touchdowns in the Red Raiders' spread offense. Yet he clearly slipped in several teams' estimation when a stress fracture was discovered in his left foot at the combine. 
He underwent surgery that scuttled much of his pre-draft workout schedule while he rested his foot in a protective boot, never running a 40-yard dash. He's not expected to partic­ipate fully in next week­end's minicamp while con­tinuing his recovery, but should be ready for train­ing camp. 
Nine teams passed on him -including the cross­Bay rival Oakland Raiders, who went with Maryland receiver Darrius Heyward­Bey with the seventh pick. While Crabtree's statistics dwarf Heyward-Bey's accomplishments with the Terrapins, the Raiders apparently thought Crabtree wasn't fast enough to fit their needs. 
"My whole thing was patience," Crabtree said. "I was just trying to be patient. I like the 49ers. I grew up watching the 49ers and Cowboys. It's a great history behind the 49ers. A lot of people have played there, and I have big shoes to fill." 
The developments delighted the 49ers' draft room, where the club's selection process suddenly became easy when Jacksonville didn't choose Crabtree with the eighth pick. 

Brewers' closer Hoffman 
back from DL 
HOUSTON -The Milwaukee Brewers will finally get to use closer Trevor Hoffman. 
The Brewers activated base­ball's all-time saves leader from the disabled list prior to Sunday's game against the Houston Astros. 
Hoffman had been on the DL since March 30 with a strain on his right side. Milwaukee signed him in the offseason. 
The Brewers entered Sunday's game leading the major leagues with six blown saves. Milwaukee used six pitchers Saturday night in a 9-8 win in 11 innings. 
"I asked Trevor if he's got three or four innings in him," manager Ken Macha joked. 
Hoffman has 554 career saves. To make room for him, the Brewers optioned lefty R.J. Swindle to Triple-A Nashville. 
Terry rewarded for 
role off Dallas bench 
DALlAS -Mavericks guard Jason Terry is the best off the bench. 
Terry, mostly a full-time starter before taking on a different role the past two seasons, was presented Friday with the NBA sixth man award that goes to the league's top reserve. 
"The ability to do it, but also the willingness to embrace it, is some­thing that's got to be a part of it," Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle said. "That's who he is. He wants to win and he wants to part of something that's bigger than himself, and that's really what this is all about." 
While starting only 11 of his 7 4 games in the regular season, Terry averaged 19.6 points and 3.4 assists while playing about 34 minutes a game. Only Dirk Nowitzki and Jason Kidd played more minutes for the Mavericks, though Terry usually comes off the bench shooting. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, April 27, 2009 
MLB 
Cubs end losing streak with win over Cards 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS Kosuke Fukudome didn't want a birth­day celebration from his team­mates. He had no trouble giv­ing them a present, though. 
Fukudome hit a three-run homer and drove in a career­high five runs on his 32nd birthday, helping the Cubs end a four-game skid with a 10-3 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals on Sunday. 
Fukudome went 3-for-4 to hike his average to .371 after hitting .257 last season. He hit his fourth homer in the eighth off lefty reliever Trever Miller to fmish the scoring. 
"More than hitting, winning is the most important thing," Fukudome said through a translator. ''I'm too old for a cake and I don't want to get fat." 
However, hitting the homer off a southpaw was something to relish, Fukudome said. 
"I think it is important to let manager Lou (Piniella) to know that I'm comfortable to hit a left-handed pitcher," Fukudome said. 
Rich Harden (2-1) struck out nine in six innings for Chicago, which ended a four-game skid. 
"It was definitely an impor­tant game because we had lost four in a row," Harden said. "You want to treat every start the same but you want to go out there and stop a slide like that." 
Harden allowed four hits, including two solo homers. 
"He was very good," St. Louis second baseman Skip Schumaker said about Harden. "He had that split working for him and it was really difficult to hit." 
St. Louis' nine-game home winning streak ended. The Cardinals have won 10 of their 13 home games this season and are 13-6 overall, good for first in the NL Central. St. Louis fin­ished its six-game homestand with a 5-1 record. 
"We got really good results," Cardinals manager Tony La Hussa said. "The way we look at it is what we put into it. Now we've got Atlanta and Washington and just keep doing what we're doing as far as the effort and keep getting better." 
Chicago had 14 hits after scoring just five runs in its pre­vious four games. Aaron Miles went 3-for-5 and scored twice. 
"It was a good game for us," Piniella said. "Let's see if we can build on it." 
Derrek Lee hit an RBI double in Chicago's three-run first but left the game before the Cubs took the field in the bottom half because of neck spasms. Micah Hoffpauir replaced him at first base. Piniella said Lee likely would not go on the disabled list. 
"Yeah, it was nice to put some runs on the board in the first inning," Piniella said. "We've had trouble with men in scoring position. Today, we did a heck of a lot better. We gave our pitcher some runs to work it." 
Hoffpauir led off the seventh with a home run to give the Cubs a 7-2 lead. The homer snapped a four-game team homerless drought. 
Todd Wellemeyer (1-2) was tagged for six runs, five earned, and eight hits in five innings. He walked Hoffpauir with the bases loaded in the second to make it 4-0. 
"It didn't go too well," Wellemeyer said. "They got some guys on base in the first and they capitalized on it and got them in and that's all there is too it." 
La Russa said he believes Wellemeyer will improve. 
"He's not as sharp as he can be. That's one of the beauties of playing 6 months and getting 30 starts," La Russa said. "He's not going to give in." 
Yadier Molina and Hick Ankiel hit solo drives for St. Louis. Molina extended his hit­ting streak to 10 games with his second homer of the sea­son. 
Cardinals slugger Albert Pujols reached base four times before hitting into a game-end­ing double play. He walked three times and was hit on the hip by Harden in the fifth. 
Indians 4, Twins 2 
Aaron Laffey and Tony Sipp used to talk about pitching for the Cleveland Indians when they were roommates at Triple­A Columbus this year. The sce­nario was Laffey would start and Sipp would close out a vic­tory. 
Sunday didn't play out exaet­ly how they planned, but it was still very satisfying. 
Laffey pitched into the sev­enth inning and Sipp eame up with two big strikeouts, helping Cleveland beat the Minnesota Twins and avoid a three-game sweep. 
"It was great to have that moment and be able to tell him 'Welcome to the big leagues," Laffey said. 
Laffey (2-0) allowed two runs and five hits in 6 1-3 innings. Laffey, who began the year at Columbus, has been the Indians' most consistent starter. He has a 2.41 ERA in three starts since being recalled on April 15. 
The Indians were held to one run in each of the first two games of the series, but Hyan Garko 's two-run single oft' Glen Perkins (1-2) in the third gave them a 4-0 lead. 
"I like being in those spots," Garko said. "Those are spots where games are won or lost." 
It was the shortest outing of the year for Perkins, who allowed four runs in five innings. Perkins had lasted eight innings in each of his first three starts, never allowing more than two runs. 
"He had a little bit of a rough time early," manager Ron Gardenhire said. "He had the one bad inning. lie got us through five and I thought our bullpen did a very good job." 
Laffey left after Minnesota loaded the bases with one out in the seventh. Jensen Lewis surrendered pinch-hitter Denard Span 's two-run single and walked Brendan Harris before manager Eric Wedge brought in Sipp to face lefty sluggers Justin Morneau and Jason Kubel . 
Morneau entered the day hit­ting .364 over his last 10 games at Progressive Field, and Kubel homered twice Saturday night. But Sipp, making just his sec­ond career appearance, struck out both to preserve Cleveland's 4-2 lead. 

:MSP 
In lionor o_f 5\sian-.J\merican :Jfe·ritage :Jvtontli, we a·re fe.aturi11fJ: 
Cliinese. antf :Fi£1pino cuisine antf 
-,~<>,~.$,,"'#(>.. 
traditiona( ./\siannames 

7-gym 

& Wednesday, April 29 
8:00 am -9:00 pm  9:00 am -5:00 pm  
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore  Varsity Shops I & II  
in the Eck Center  Joyce Athletic Center  
574.631.6316  57 4.631.5683  

As a token ofour appreciation, 
we will be extending a 20°/o total discount on select merchandise* during this event 
•valid 04/28/09 · 04/29/09. May not be combined with any other offer. Valid in-store and on selected items only. limit one coupon 
per customer. Excludes textbooks, gift cards, diploma frames, clearance items, promotional items, prevaous and online purchases, calculators, computer hardware, supplies and software, and professional reference. 0700KB040909A 
Monday, April 27, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 


Now £easi:no Por 2009-2010 ;4pp{y 'Today LimitedSpace ;4vaifa6CelI I 
Offeri1lfJ cr1ie (]Jest CJ{enta[CRgtes in IJ'awn! $99 CF'or pt :Mont/is CJ?§nt 'Witfi 12 :Montfi Lease! $300 Offr Mont/is CJ?§nt Witfi 9 :Montfi Lease! Pree }lppucation Pee CF'or Students 'Witfi I.(/),! Cfose to Campus! 
Castle1'oint 
11011 Cleve.l.ud Rd. So•tlt Be.~td, D1 46631Apar,tnJent.'S PltOBe: (514) :112-111.0 Fax: (574) 112-1114 
I 

STUDY ITALIAN THIS SUMMER 


Complete the first year of Italian in 6 weeks! 
like a double shot of espresso in the morning 
ROIT 10115 is a 6 week, 6 credit course meeting from June 23 until August 6 MTWRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 

MLB 
Bruce hoiners twice in Reds' defeat of Braves 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -All Micah Owings needed was some run support. Jay Bruce provided more than enough. 
Bruce homered twice and drove in four runs, helping Owings earn his first win in nearly a year by leading the Cincinnati Reds over the Atlanta Braves 8-2 on Sunday. 
"I've been working on chang­ing my approach," said Bruce, who's hitting .455 (10-for-22) with four home runs and eight RBis during a six-game hitting streak. "I got myself out a whole lot last year, and I got myself out earlier this year. I just want to settle down and not get ahead of myself. The biggest thing is to swing at strikes and not swing at their (best) pitch­es." 
Joey Votto had two doubles, one with the bases loaded in Cincinnati's six-run fifth inning, to help the Reds salvage the finale of the three-game series after losing the first two. 
"Hitting's contagious," Reds manager Dusty Baker said. "One guy gets hot or two guys get hot and, suddenly, the pitch­er's pitching out of the stretch a lot. We got some timely hitting. When that happens, you're going to score some runs." 
Owings (1-2), acquired in the trade that sent Adam Dunn to Arizona, also had two hits while earning his first win in 15 appearances, including 11 starts, since a 9-3 win at Atlanta for Arizona May 25. The right-hander, who was 0-9 with an 8.53 ERA in that span, limited the Braves to six hits and one run with three walks and six strikeouts Sunday. 
"I wish I could have gone even deeper in the game, but I don't want to get greedy," Owings said. "I am going to enjoy this one. I am going to work on going even deeper in games. In the first two games I might have been a little too quick. I had to concentrate on driving my pitches more." 
Atlanta third baseman Chipper Jones , who had two of the five hits allowed by Owings, was surprised by the effective­ness of the Reds pitcher's fast­ball. 
"I watched his last two games," Jones said. "He looked more inconsistent with his fast­ball than he was today. Today, he pitched most of the left-ban­ders in. We couldn't do any­thing with him." 
"I didn't notice any differen~e in my fastball, but for Chipper Jones to say that, you have to respect it," Owings said. 
Former Reds catcher David Ross broke up Owings' shutout bid with a solo home run with one out in the seventh. 
The Reds, who scored one more run in the fifth inning Sunday than they totaled for Owings in his first two starts, avoided their first three-game skid of the season and cost the Braves their first four-game winning streak. 
Atlanta starter Kenshin Kawakami held the Reds hitless and limited them to just two baserunners until Votto lined a double down the right-field line with one out in the fourth inning. An out later, Bruce hit an opposite-field home run to left. 
Bruce has gotten at least one hit in all six starts since missing three consecutive starts with a bruised right hand. 
The Reds broke the game open with their six-run fifth. Votto hit a three-run double just out of the reach of lunging first baseman Casey Kotchman . Brandon Phillips followed with a run-scoring single and Bruce capped the inning with his sec­ond homer of the game and fifth of the season. It was his third multihomer game and first this season. 
Bruce's homer knocked Kawakami (1-3) out, having given up eight hits and eight runs with a walk and a strike­out. The 33-year-old rookie right-hander from Japan has lost his last three starts after starting his big league career with a win over Washington on Aprilll. 
"He pitched good for the first three innings," Atlanta manag­er Bobby Cox said. "All Bruce's (first) homer was was a little flyball. He started getting his offspeed pitches up, then he started getting hit." 
Owings held Atlanta to two hits and five baserunners through the first five innings. 
"He did it with the bat, too," Bruce said. "He was fun to watch." 
Orioles 8, Rangers 5 
Adam Jones enjoyed beating the high-powered Texas Rangers at their own game. 
Jones hit a three-run homer in the sixth inning and the Baltimore Orioles rallied for a victory Sunday. 
"We can mash, too," Jones said. "We're different ballclubs, different style teams. They hack. I love watching them ­not against us, but I love watch­ing them." 
With one out, Cesar Izturis was hit on his left foot and Brian Roberts singled to left before Jones hit an 0-1 slider from reliever Jason Jennings (0-1) into the seats in left-cen­ter to give Baltimore a 7-5 lead. Jones' third homer completed the Orioles' comeback from a 5­1 deficit. 
"Things were jumping out of here today. (Jones) hit it in the right spot," Jennings said. 
Texas' bullpen has a 6. 7 5 ERA, though manager Ron Washington isn't worried about his relievers' ineffectiveness. Washington is more concerned with his starters coughing up leads. 
"My bullpen isn't giving me any concerns. I think my bullpen has been doing a good job," he said. "It got us today. No concern here." 
Chris Davis , David Murphy and Hank Blalock connected for the Rangers, who lead the major leagues with 38 home runs and have hit two or more in a game 14 times this season, also most in the majors. 
Roberts had four hits and also homered for the Orioles, and Nick Markakis had two RBis. Markakis singled in the fifth, extending his hitting streak to 13 games and reaching base safely for the 27th consecutive game, the longest active streak in the majors. 
Danys Baez (1-1) got the vic­tory with three hitless innings. George Sherrill worked the ninth for his fourth save. 

NHL 

Capitals victory over Rangers forces Game 7 
New York to make unexpected return trip to Washington to determine series winner after losing lead 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The New York Rangers can expect beefed-up security during a return trip to Washington they never wanted to take. No one else will help protect them on the ice against the suddenly surging Capitals. 
John Tortorella's view from a suite was no better than the one from the bench, and the suspended coach watched help­lessly as Washington dominat­ed his Rangers for the second straight game and put them on the brink of elimination, too. 
Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist again didn't make it to the third period, and Washington defenseman Tom Poti torched his former team in the Capitals' 5-3 victory Sunday that set up a decisive Game 7 on Tuesday. 
"He can't play every game like a god," Capitals star Alex Ovechkin said of Lundqvist, who had stopped 141 of 149 shots in the first four games when the Rangers grabbed a 3­1 series lead. "He can't save the game all the time. 
"When we play our game, we play simple. We play hard and nobody can stop us." 
Tortorella served a one-game suspension following a con­frontation with a fan Friday during New York's 4-0 loss in Game 5 that sent the series back to Madison Square Garden. Tortorella squirted water into the crowd and threw a water bottle into the stands. 
On Sunday, Tortorella sat high above the ice and rested his chin in his palm as the game turned from bad to worse under the Capitals' offensive onslaught. 
Jim Schoenfeld, Tortorella's lone assistant coach, ran the club in his absence and said before the game that Tortorella had been sticking up for his players against slurs from the crowd. 
Even the return of benched forward Sean Avery couldn't spark the Rangers, who have been outscored 9-3 since mov­ing within one win of advanc­ing. 
"We wouldn't put this on Torts and we won't put this on Shoney," captain Chris Drury said. "We just didn't play well enough." 
Tortorella will be allowed to coach Game 7 in Washington, where the Rangers claimed in a letter to NHL commissioner Gary Bettman that security was lax -a factor they said led to the water incident. 
"When you're down 3-1, there is no pressure on you," Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau said. "They expect you to lose. Now we see how (the Capitals) can handle .it when they're expected to win." 
The Rangers' biggest concern now might be the poor play of Lundqvist. 
"He's our guy," Drury said. "We're not here without him. We know he's going to respond when push comes to shove. 
NFL 
Jets take on QB Sanchez with No. 5 draft pick 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J.-Mark Sanchez made no guarantees. The New York Jets' newest quarterback knew better. 
No bold declarations for a franchise that's been hungry for a Super Bowl trip since the days of Joe Namath. 
"I can't promise we're going to win the division," Sanchez said Saturday after the Jets made the former Southern California star the No. 5 overall pick following a trade with Cleveland. "I can't promise we're going to win the Super Bowl and I'm going to be the MVP of the league. 
"All I can promise is that I'm going to work hard." 
And that works just fine for the Jets, who solved their quar­terback question with one giant leap up the draft board from the 17th overall pick. 
"When Mark was available at No. 5, we did what was in the best interest of the New York Jets," general manager Mike Tannenbaum said. 
The Jets acquired the pick from Cleveland and former coach Eric Mangini for their first-round pick, their second­round (No. 52), and defensive end Kenyon Coleman, safety Abram Elam and quarterback Brett Ratliff. It turned out to be the Jets' only pick of day, but it was a biggie. 
Owner Woody Johnson 
announced the news on his Twitter page, saying: "We have selected Mark Sanchez. Go Jets." Kicker Jay Feely also tweeted: "Great trade for the Jets!! To only give up our first and second this year to get the fifth pick." 
Many Jets fans at the draft site at Radio City Music Hall cheered wildly, while some bemoaned giving up what in effect will be five players for one. 
"Well, I think if Mr. Tannenbaum and Mr. Johnson think I'm worth it, that's great," Sanchez said. ''I'm excited about the faith they have in me. Of course, you need to prove them right, and that comes with being the first guy on the practice field and being the last guy to leave." 
Sanchez, with his powerful and accurate arm and excellent field vision, will immediately compete for the starting job with Kellen Clemens. The Southern California native arrives a sea­son after Brett Favre came out of retirement, but struggled down the stretch as the Jets went 9-7 and missed the play­offs. 
"The only thing I can say to that is I've never grown up dreaming of being a backup," Sanchez said. "That's what it's all about, and I'm sure Kellen Clemens feels the same way and that's what this position is all about is competing for your job and that's all I know how to do. It'll be a great matchup for us." 

That's what he has done for us all year." 
Poti, the subject of Hangers fans' wrath during his three­plus seasons with New York, had a goal and two assists as Washington built a 5-1 lead. 
"I could care less about any of that," Poti said. "We got a win and we've got more work to do." 
.When Ovechkin tipped in Poti's drive for a power-play goal with 3:1 6 left in the sec­ond period, Lundqvist was touched for his ninth goal in 34 shots. 
"You start to think about what is to come on Tuesday," Lundqvist said. "The only thing I can do is get a good practice and prepare for it." 
The lone bright spot for New York was Scott Gomez 's goal that tied it 1-1 8:15 in and snapped the Rangers' 0-for-18 power-play skid. 
The Capitals took a 1-0 lead on Milan Jurcina 's first NHL playoff goal 7:09 in, and fellow defensemen Mike Green and Poti staked Washington to a 3-1 edge in the first. Viktor Kozlov and Ovechkin pushed the advantage to four goals in the second. 
That made for another easy game for rookie Simeon Varlamov , who finished with 29 saves. 
For the second straight year, Washington has forced a Game 7 in the first round after trail­ing 3-1. The Capitals fell short at home against Philadelphia last year, but the Southeast Division champions are riding a wave that could make them the 21st team in 230 chances to come all the way back. 

"We have a little bit of expe­rience knowing what we have to do," Poti said. "We still have to come out and play a perfect game. I don't really think about momentum." 
Frustration got to the Rangers in the second period when Brandon Dubinsky received 14 minutes in penal­ties following his hit from behind against Green. Dubinsky slammed his helmet as he walked down the tunnel to the dressing room. 
Schoenfeld said Dubinsky was given a tetanus shot because he was bitten on the arm by Washington's Shaone Morrisonn during the serum following the hit. 
Capitals enforcer Donald Brashear laid out center Blair Betts in the first period with a late shot to the head. Brashear wasn't penalized and Washington grabbed the lead for good moments later. 
"It was pretty vicious," Schoenfeld said. "(Betts) is hurt significantly." 
NASCAR 

Keselowski' s first win a wild race 
Edwards' car goes airborne in last lap; seven fans injured from debris 
Associated Press 

TALLADEGA, Ala. -Carl Edwards climbed from his crumpled race car and crossed the Talladega Superspeedway finish line on foot. In the grandstand to his left, seven fans were injured from the fly­ing debris of his last-lap battle with eventual winner Brad Keselowski. 
"We'll race like this until we kill somebody," Edwards said, "then (NASCAR) will change it." 
The dangerous but dramatic restrictor-plate racing came under fire again Sunday after Edwards' attempt to block Keselowski's winning pass trig­gered the last of several fright­ening accidents at one of the sport's most visible tracks. 
Officials said none of seven fans sustained life-threatening injuries from the debris that flew into the grandstands. 
Dr. Bobby Lewis, Talladega's onsite physician, said two peo­ple in the crowd were airlifted from the track to avoid the heavy traffic. One woman had a possible broken jaw, Lewis said, and another had an undisclosed medical issue. 
After Keselowski pushed Edwards past Hyan Newman and Dale Earnhardt Jr. into the lead on the final lap, the 25­year-old Earnhardt protege peeked around Edwards as they closed in on tho finish line. Edwards ducked low to block the pass, but Keselowski was too close and couldn't avoid contact that sent Edwards into a spin up the track and into Newman's path. 
Edwards' car flew over the top of Newman's hood, then went airborne into the frontstretch fence. It swelled toward the fans but held, and Edwards' car returned to the racing surface. 
''I'm glad the car didn't go up in the grandstands and hurt somebody," Edwards said. "I saw some fencing at one point and that made me a little bit nervous. I don't know if I could live with myself if I ended up in the grandstands." 
NASCAR spokesman Jim Hunter said the sanctioning body will analyze the accident, as well as the safety fence, to determine if anything can be improved. 
"If there were something that we felt we could do today to make it safer, it would be done," Hunter said. "This is a fast race track. It's wide. I saw guys racing five-abreast today, which I have never seen. We know the cars are safer than they've ever been." 
Hestrietor plates are used at both Daytona and Talladega to combat the high speeds at NASCAH's two fastest tracks. The plates typically keep the field bunched tightly together, and one wrong move by a driv­er can cause a massive acci­dent. 
There were three bad ones Sunday: a 13-car accident on Lap 7, a 10-car accident with nine laps to go, and Edwards' flight to the finish. A day earli­er, Matt Kenseth was unin­jured in a fiery roll during the Nationwide Series race. 
"Talladega is short for 'We're going to crash, we just don't know when,"' said Newman, the third-place finisher. "We saw (an airborne car) two times this weekend, so maybe we need to look at things that keep the car down on the ground." 
Earnhardt Jr., a five-time Talladega winner and seven­time winner of restrictor-plate races, finished second but echoed concerns about the racing style. Drivers dread it because so much is out of their control, but Earnhardt said it's loved by fans because of the danger. 
"For years, we've had wrecks like this every time we've come to Talladega. Ever since the plate got here. And for years it was celebrated," he said. "The media celebrated it, the networks celebrated it, calling it 'The Big One,' just trying to attract attention. 
"So there's a responsibility with the media and the net­works and the sanctioning body itself to come to their senses a little bit." 
Monday, April 27, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles defeat Adrian 7-2 
and Betsy Reed at No. 2 dou­By KATELYN GRABAREK 

bles when they beat fresh­

Sports Writer 
men Shelby Kruszewski and Sarah Kean by a score of 8­

The Belles picked up a 7-2 3. victory over MIAA foe Adrian "Any win is going to help," Saturday and will wrap up Campbell said. "We weren't their regular season today down, but a victory is nice when they host Olivet. especially heading into con­
Saint Mary's (8-9, 3-4 ference next weekend." MIAA) got off to a slow start Hurley took down Denney 
against the host  at No. 1 sin­ 
Bulldogs  gles  by  a  
Saturday, losing  score of 6-1,  
two out of three doubles match­es before head­ "We are still trying to be more aggressive.''  6-0, while Gebert main­tained her  
ing into singles.  undefeated  
"It went really well," Belles  Dale Campbell Belles coach  streak in the conference  

coach Dale Campbell said. "We had a slow start in doubles but came back strong in sin­gles for the 7-2 victory." 
Sophomore Jillian Hurley and junior Camille Gebert fell at No. 1 doubles to Adrian sophomore Robyn Denney and freshman Sarah Brooks. 
Sophomores Jessica Kosinski and Mary Therese Lee were not able to pull out their doubles match either, falling 8-6 to freshmen Adrienne Haase and Shannon Woods. 
The Belles earned their only doubles victory from sophomores Franca Peluso winning by 
6-0, 6-1. 
Kosinski 
was able to maintain her dominance this season at No. 3 singles, beat­ing sophomore Katelyn Siminca by a score of 6-1, 6­1. 
Reed was able to pull out a tough match at No. 4 singles, winning 6-4, 6-0. 
"[Reed[ was down in her first set and was able to bat­tle back and pull it out," Campbell said. 
Peluso had another tight match against Kean, winning 7-5, 7-6 (3) at No. 5 singles. 
"Singles is our strength so we are working on being more aggressive and attack­ing," Campbell said. 

Sophomore Jessica Camp defeated Woods at No. 6 sin­gles, dropping only four games. 
The Belles will wrap up their regular season sched­ule today when they host Olivet (9-7, 2-5). 
"They are similar to Adrian," Campbell said. "They had a close match with Adrian. We are expect­ing the same types of themes from what we saw against Adrian." 
Olivet is currently behind the Belles in the conference standings with only two wins in the conference to the Belles' three. 
Saint Mary's was able to defeat Olivet easily last year without dropping a match. 
The Belles have main­tained their lineup changes that Campbell experimented with against Trine last week. 
"It has definitely changed the style of play," Cambell said. "We are still trying to be more aggressive. Also with the changes in doubles teams you have to build chemistry with the new part­ners." 
The Belles will face off against Olivet at 4 p.m. today. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND TRACK & FIELD 
More NCAA qualifiers emerge from relays 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame picked up six individual titles between the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa and the Hillsdale Relays in Hillsdale, Mich. this week­end. 
The Irish were looking to collect a few more qualifica­tions for the upcoming Big East and NCAA Tournaments and sent a small group to the Drake and Hillsdale Relays as most of the team rested. 
"We're trying to get some more kids qualified for the Big East and NCAA," Irish coach Joe Piane said. "That's our goal. For some it's a tune-up [for next week's Big East championships] and for some it's an opportunity." 
At the Drake Relays, junior Matt Schipper placed first in the pole vault with a mark of 
5.30 meters for the only top finish for the Irish in Iowa. 
Freshman Andrew Hills took first in the shot put with a throw of 16.30 meters at the Drake Relays, while junior Eric Quick won the triple jump with a mark of 14.84 meters. 
On the women's side of 
things, junior Jaime Minor fin­ished first in the triple jump with a mark of 12.01 meters. Junior Joanna Schultz took first in the 400-meter hurdles with a 0:59.70, while junior Elise Knutzen's toss of 44.92 meters in the javelin was good enough for first as well. 
The strong showings follow up on a great spring for Notre Dame, which has been consis­tently competitive since the open of the outdoor season last month. The Irish men hope to follow up on a second­place showing at the Big East indoor championships, while the women are looking to improve upon their fifth-place finish. 
"Our focus is the Big East [outdoor championships]," Piane said. "The kids who aren't running are resting up to get ready after a brutal couple of meets, and we've got our eyes set on the [Big East outdoor championships and the NCAA champi­onships]." 
The Big East championships begin Friday in Philadelphia and continue throughout the weekend. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 
Teatn qualifies for Div. III NCAAs 
By BOBBY GRAHAM 
News Writer 
Despite the fact that South Bend is finally warm­ing up, the Belles will head down to Port St. Lucie, Fla., after qualifying for the 2009 NCAA Women's Division III Golf Championship, which will begin on May 13. 
Saint Mary's qualified for the championships with a win in the MIAA tourna­ment this weekend. 
Going into the third and final round of the MIAA qualifier, Saint Mary's held a 14-stroke lead over con­ference rival Olivet. Despite the fact that Olivet shot the lowest score of the day, 331, Saint Mary's held on after shooting a 334 to fin­ish 11 strokes ahead and 
clinch the qualifying bid. pie days as the rest of the 
"We've never really field at this year's champi­played well there," Belles onship has yet to be deter­coach Mark Hamilton said. mined. The remaining "It was our best teams will round in seven b e years at that announced
"We're going to
course." later this Sophomore enjoy our time week. Emily Gore led Hamilton
down there ... 
the Belles with said the
We're peaking at
a score of 82 on next few the last day and the right time. " w e e k s a fourth-place would be finish overall. business as
Mark Hamilton 
The final four usual for his
Belles coach 
golfers for Saint Mary's all shot within three strokes of one another, with scores ranging from 83 to 85. 
Senior Perri Hamma's 85 was the best of all golfers playing as individuals. 
The Belles can sit back and relax for the next cou­
team, but that it is also a time 

for the Belles to enjoy. 
"We're going to enjoy our time down there," he said. "We're peaking at the right time." 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Disappointing season ends with tW"o losses 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
As the saying goes, it's not how you start but how you fin­ish. 
For the Belles, the start was impressive, but the finish was anything but. After starting out 22-4, the Belles dropped eight straight to end the season at 22-12. 
Saint Mary's concluded its season Saturday against Trine. The Belles lost both contests, 8-3 and 5-l. 
Despite the disappointing end of the year, Belles coach Erin Sullivan remained posi­tive. 
"''m just really proud of my team, I think that they had a lot of fun, they got better," she said. "We didn't end the way we wanted to for sure, but looking at overall how we did, they definitely had a lot of great accomplishments." 
Game 1 looked promising for the Belles early, with junior left fielder Ashley Peterson hitting an RBI double to put the Belles up 1-0. 
However, Trine, the two-time defending MIAA champs would not go down easily. The Thunder responded with four runs of their own in the bottom of the first inning, eliminating all momentum the Belles were building. 
After Peterson hit a solo home run in the top of the fourth inning, Trine again had an answer in the bottom half with another three runs. 
Peterson tried a third time to get something going, with another RBI in the fifth, but the Thunder continued the theme with a run of their own in the bottom half, bringing the score to 8-3. 
In game two, the Thunder were up 2-1 after the first inning and tacked on two in the third and one in the sixth to compete the sweep. 
Peterson led the way in both games for the Belles, going a combined 5-6 with one run and batting in all four of her team's runs. Freshman center fielder Lauren Enyati was the recipi­ent of three of those runs, and hit a combined 3-for-6. 
Freshman pitcher Monica Palicki suffered her seventh loss of the year in game one and freshman pitcher Angela Gillis suffered her fifth in game two. 
The games marked the end of the road for the team's three seniors, catcher Ashley Fusaro, shortstop Cathy Kurczak and first baseman Katie Rashid. Sullivan had only good things to say about them. 
"My three seniors, we are really going to miss them," she said. "They were just great leaders, very positive, loved the game, loved the team, loved the program." 
The wins Saturday meant an MIAA regular season champi­onship for the Thunder, while Saint Mary's had already been eliminated from playoff con­tention entering the double­header. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

..---------~--­
page 20 
Tate 
continued from page 24 
seventh inning. Sophomore catcher Cameron McConnell drew an opening walk and sophomore second baseman Greg Sherry followed with a single. Junior center fielder 
A.J. Pollock was then hit by a pitch, loading the bases for the Irish. Two batters later, senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes drew a walk to score McConnell. 
Now down 12-8, the Irish were about turn the game around for good. Sophomore David Casey stepped up to the plate and hit his second home run of the weekend to tie the game. 
After two more innings of scoreless play, Tate took the plate in the top of ninth 
• inning and knocked a 2-2 fast ball over the left-field wall to give the Irish the one-run lead. Freshman Will Hudgins 

First 
continued from page 24 
"It was an amazing game for our team," senior co-captain Shannon Burke said. "We played a full 60­minute game, and never let up. From end to end, our connections were unstoppable." 
Notre Dame continued to be relentless as they stepped onto the field Sunday in their first-ever appearance in the final round of the tournament. They fell to Georgetown in the first round in 2007 and 2008. But the Irish, especially the team's four seniors, were determined to not let history repeat itself again this weekend. 
"The seniors really wanted it," Coyne said. "Individually, they each had outstanding games. Their desire and experience really took the mound in the bottom of the ninth and sent down three of the Cardinals' first four batters to record the save, his second in as many days. 
Freshman Ryan Richter (5­
1) got the win in the contest behind three scoreless innings of relief. 
Sherry and sophomore Mick Doyle paced the Irish by both going 3-for-4 with one and three runs scored, respective­ly. 
In game one, Notre Dame took a one-run lead into the ninth inning after overcoming a 6-0 deficit, but couldn't hold on and fell 8-7. The Cardinals got a pinch-hit, two-run home run in the bottom of' the ninth to claim the victory. 
Junior Steve Mazur (2-2) took the loss in the contest allowing two runs in one inning of work. 
The Irish bounced back in game two behind a barrage of home runs to knock off the Cardinals 11-5. 


helped and showed itself today. Especially Erin Goodman, who made some really big saves." 
Goodman totaled nine saves against the Hoyas and was named to the All-Tournament team along with teammates Byers, Burke, Sciascia, Abt and junior defender Rachel Guerrera. 
"It's been so surreal to admit that these remaining few games are my last, but it has definitely brought a new fire to our level of play as seniors," Burke said. 
The Irish came out strong from the start, scoring the first four goals of the game, and led 9-2 at the half. 
"We ran the fast break really well, worked the ball down the field, and were able to capitalize the opportunity when it presented it<>elf," Coyne said. 
Capitalize they did as six Irish players scored, which helped them 

The Observer+ SPORTS 
Senior Evan Sharpley, Pollock and Doyle all con­tributed long balls and sopho­more Brian Dupra (5-4) went seven solid innings in the win. Dupra was by no means domi­nating, but got the job done. He allowed five runs on 12 
hits.  Hudgins  went  two  
innings  to  earn  his  first  
career save.  

The Irish find themselves back in the thick of the Big East race after this weekend's victory. They are tied for fifth plaee with Cineinnati, just two games behind the seeond­plaee Cardinals. 
Notre Dame will face non­conference opponents Illinois­Chicago and Bowling Green this week before continuing conference play at home against Connectieut next weekend. Tuesday's matchup with 1\linois-Chieago is sched­uled to begin at 6:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Alex Barker at 
abarker1@nd.edu 

to hold off the Hoyas. Leading the scoring was sophomore attack Kaitlin Keena with three goals. 
"It's difficult to stop a team with so many people contributing," Coyne said. "It was a crazy second hall". We knew they had it in them to eome back, but we managed to hold them." 
The Irish have few days off before starting the NCAA Tournament, in whieh they have an automatic bid in for the first time. Notre Dame will travel to Ithaca, N.Y., to take on No. 20 Cornell on May 2 in the first round. 
"It was a big win for us, but we still have to face another ranked team," Coyne said. "Hopefully we can win at Cornell and get a home field advantage for the second round." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at 
mveselO1@saintmarys.edu 
Monday, April 27, 2009 

Lafayette Square Town homes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student! 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
{574) 234-2436 
Monday, April27, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Orange 
continued from page 24 
fans at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Solid defense and exceptional pitching from senior Brittney Bargar (20-9) highlighted Notre Dame's shutout in game one. Bargar surrendered only four hits across seven innings. 
The Irish benefited early from the unselfish play and timely hit­ting of senior second baseman Linda Kohan and junior first baseman Christine Lux, who instigated a two-run rally in the first to give the Irish a lead they would not give up. 
Senior designated hitter Beth Northway got things started in the bottom of the frame with a leadoff single, raising her team­leading batting average to .367. Kohan followed up with a sacri­fice bunt to move Northway into scoring position, and Lux sent an RBI double down the right field line to plate the game's first run. 
Freshman Dani Miller, who saw her 20-game consecutive hitting streak snapped against North Dakota State last week, grounded a chopper to third that was mis­played by Syracuse's Hallie Gibbs, allowing Lux to round third and score. 
With an Orange runner in scor­ing position in the third, sopho­more right fielder Erin Marrone came up with a gem to keep the shutout intact, flagging a deep liner to right field with an over­the-shoulder grab. 
Kohan added an insurance run in the bottom half of the third, belting a solo home run off the scoreboard to give the Irish a three-run advantage as they cruised to a game one victory. 
The back end of the double­header was a much closer affair, as the Irish needed some late­inning heroics to pull off the sweep. 
A leadoff double in the fourth by Lux was wasted by the Irish, as she was left stranded in scor­ing position. But when Lux came back to the plate in the fifth with two runners on and two outs, she would not be denied. 
With a full count, Lux roped a standup triple down the right field line to pick up her second and third RBI of the day. Miller followed with a single to right field on the first pitch, scoring Lux and giving the Irish a 3-1 lead. 
The dangerous Orange bats came alive in the top of the sixth, as Gibbs homered to left in the top of the sixth. Gaby Torzillie doubled in the tying run past the outstretched glove of freshman center fielder Alexa Maldonado later in the inning, shifting the momentum back to Syracuse. 
But the Irish refused to go down at home without a fight. Kohan lined a single down the right field line in the bottom of the frame to plate senior Christine Farrell. Northway scored later on a Syracuse error, and junior third baseman Heather Johnson's fourth sacri­fice fly of the season put the Irish up by three. 
Sophomore pitcher Jody Valdivia started the game from the circle, giving up three runs on four hits with two strikeouts. Bargar stepped in to throw two shutout innings in game two, fin­ishing with nine scoreless innings on the day and lowering her ERA to 1.61 on the season, good enough for second in the confer­ence. 
The Irish will look to continue their hot hitting as they hit the road for a three-game road trip that will begin at Providence on Thursday. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
ROWING 

Irish don1inate at Big East chan1pionships 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's rowing team extended their streak of Big East Championships to six this weekend, topping Syracuse in Cherry Hill, N.J. 
The women did so in domi­nating fashion, winning gold medals in four races and plac­ing second in the other two. Their total of 112 points was followed by Syracuse with 97 points and Louisville with 92 points. West Virginia rounded out the group of eight with 38 points. 
"This is what we've been working for all year, and I'm glad we were able to compete so well," freshman novice eight rower Tess Fitzpatrick said. 

The Irish started off the day well, posting the fastest times in all four prelims. In the grand finals, the Irish took the first race, the novice four. Led by freshman coxswain Jacqueline Gilhooly, the novice four team crossed the finish line in 8:02.648, 10 seconds better than second-place Georgetown. 
One step up from that, junior coxswain Rachael Louie led her second varsity four to a 12-second victory over Syracuse. 
In the novice eight grand final, Syracuse was able to pull out a gold medal, despite the fact that the Irish had the best time in the preliminaries and even improved their time by 16 seconds for the fmals. 
The Irish bounced back, however, taking the gold in the varsity four and their fourth and final gold in the varsity eight. 
In the final race of the day, the Louisville's No. 19 varsity eight boat was able to defeat the Irish, despite the Irish's 17­second improvement from pre­liminaries. 
The Irish had to deal with the weather, which was hot and humid all weekend, but the team found ways to cope. 
"I think we did really well with the heat. We were proba­bly able to overcome it because we were all so pumped up for the races," Fitzpatrick said. 
Notre Dame will move on to compete in the South/Central Sprints in Oak Ridge, Tenn. where the Irish will attempt to improve on their seventh over­all finish last year. 
"The competition gets even better at South/Centrals so at this point we just have to work on getting our boats faster," Fitzpatrick said. "We are really going to focus on fitness and power drills this upcoming week." 
The races are scheduled to begin May 16. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

intoFREEBIES (SUBS & CLUBS ONLY) one turkey of our & provolone. homemade jammed French buns then smothered with onions. mayo,
Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo. sliced 
lettuce. tomato, & our homemade Real applewood smoked ham and bacon with lettuce.
cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano. 
Italian dressing. tomato & mayo. what could be better! 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 
1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.277.8500 574.968.4600 
SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA ­
''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOJIN'S!''® © 
@1985. 200Z. 2003. 2004. Z007. 2008 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE. llC ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. We Reserve The Right To Make Any Menu Changes. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April27, 2009 

This Sunday, May 3, the following candidates will complete their initiation into the Catholic Church byreceiving the Sacrament of Confirmation at the 
11:45 a.m. Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Please keep them in your prayers and join us in congratulating them. 
Notre Dame 
Perfect 
continued from page 24 
"We started off a little slowly," Corrigan said. "We just had to get used to the environment." 
In front of the opening crowd, Ohio State jumped to a 3-0 lead, but sophomore midfielder Zach Brenneman finally put the Irish on the scoreboard with his first goal after more than 10 minutes of the game had passed. 
Brenneman 

led the Irish "We played one of minutes we 
with four goals. our most complete played very "Zach played well."
games ofthe year. '' 

very well," Finally putting Corrigan said. together a domi­"He had excel­Kevin Corrigan nating perform­
lent shot selec­Irish coach ance for the vast 
tion, and he grabbed his opportunities." 
Once they had adjusted, the Irish took control of the game. The Buckeyes held a 4-3 lead as the first half wound down, but Brenneman tied the score with one second left in the half. 
"[Brenneman's goal] was a huge lift of momentum," Corrigan said. "It was a great individual effort by Zach on that play." 
Using that momentum, Notre Dame opened the second half with seven unanswered goals to take an 11-4 lead. 
"I think the run was a little bit of a lot of things, better execu­tion, good jobs by our face-off guys, and adjusting to the atmosphere," Corrigan said. "It was a very balanced team effort, not any one thing." 
Once Brenneman put the Irish on the board, the team outscored the Buckeyes 13-2 over the next 39 minutes of play. 
"We played one of our most complete games of the year," Corrigan said. "The first 10 minutes and the last 10 minutes we were not at our best, but in the middle 40 
majority of a 
game bodes well 
for Notre Dame as the team enters the postsea­son. 
"That is where you want to be heading into the playoffs," Corrigan said. "Hopefully we can continue that against Quinnipiac." 
The GWLL tournament begins Friday as the top-seeded Irish face Quinnipiac and Ohio State plays Air Force in the semifinal round. The victors will meet in the tournament championship Sunday. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1 @nd.edu 
Bruton 

continued from page 24 
teams; punt, punt return, kick­off, kickoff return. I think he's blocked a kick or two in his career, or certainly has the capability to do that. He's got great range in the deep part of the field as a safety also." 
He also has a 41-inch verti­cal leap. 
"The leaping ability comes from my Mom's side of the family, track athletes," Bruton said. "It translates on the field as in being able to high-point the ball going against the taller receivers. It helps give me an advantage on the ball, on a fade route or something." 
Bruton said he isn't con­cerned about his role on the team. 
''I'll play wherever I earn my spot at, potentially special teams if not on all four units, and then work myself into the safety rotation and give them valuable reps," he said. 
McDaniels praised Bruton's special-teams ability in a press conference after the draft. 
"He's one of the finest spe­cial teams players in the draft, period," McDaniels said. "He was a great gunner for the punt team, getting down there and getting to the returner before the ball was caught, many times forcing a lot of fair catches." 
The Broncos recently hired McDaniels, who served as the offensive coordinator for the New England Patriots under head coach Bill Belichick, after firing former coach Mike Shanahan. 
Five other former Irish play­ers, although not drafted, have signed as free agents with NFL teams, Notre Dame's sports information department said. Receiver David Grimes also signed with the Broncos, defensive lineman Pat Kuntz signed with the Indianapolis Colts and defensive back Terrail Lambert signed with the San Francisco 49ers. Both fullback Asaph Schwapp and offensive tackle Mike Turkovich signed with the Dallas Cowboys. 
Defensive end Justin Brown and linebacker Maurice Crum Jr. were expected to finalize their plans late Sunday night, the sports information depart­ment said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Daniel Ignacio Barrera Daniel BonAnno Codyjoseph Borgstrom Alison Catherine Buch Rebecca Brigid Caples Kristina Cavallaro Kelsey Elizabeth Conlon Adrian Catherine Cunningham Colin Francis Dougherty Matthewjeremiah Gallivan Rachel Cecilia Gerkey Jessica Catherine Harrison Angelica Genesius Hernandez 
Notre Dame-RCIA Confirmation Candidates Robert Allen john Higginbotham Andrew Thomas Jones Jessica Tatiana Olivas Courtney Elizabeth Sikorski Donald "DC" Jude Smith Jim Thomas Woods
C-M 

Rebecca Llontop Sergio Michael Martinez Francesca Therese Pennino Ellen Lucy Reinke Carlo Thomas Rolando Nicole Teresa Ruiz Andrea joan Scheder Patrick Song Kelly Catherine Soraruf Stephanie Catherine Walz Donald Thomas Ward Nicholas Weida Jonathon Patrick Whitcomb 
St. Joseph's Parish Danielle Barbara Pasalich 
Sacred Heart Parish Robert Jude Collins 
Monday, April27, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tom Welling, 32: Jet Li, 46; Michael Damian. 47; Carol Burnett, 76 
Happy Birthday: You have plenty of insight and strong values but, when it comes to deal­ing with others, you may need more. You must take a strong position right from the start if you want to come out the victor_ You have the ability to adapt but only if you truly believe it is right for you. You can leant ~-and teach--important lessons this. year. Your nwnbers are 4, 11, 18, 10, 23, 34, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April19}: Don't let anyone get you down. Be original and build your own pathway to progress and success. It's your ability to be cutting edge that will keep you in the game. **** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Yon may feel a little impatient and impulsive but that isn't going to help you settle matters of concern. Don't msh into anything that could cause you to lose time and mouey. A passionate encotmter could lead to an irreversible mistake. 
*** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be more interested in social activities and having fun when you should be focusing on gettiug ahead professionally or scholastically. Money, legal and hea]th issues will all prevail if not taken care of properly. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Stifle an emotional situation at home before it has a chance to become tmcontrollable. Be cautions about the signals you send. As soon as yon let someone get the upper hand. you could get the shmt end of the stick. *** 
LEO (July 2..'l-Ang. 22): Yon tnay be at odds with wbat you should and shouldn't do but don't pass up any opportunity that will bring you greater passion. Travel, learning and ex­pressing your ideas and plans will lead to special benefits. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make some new contacts by getting involved in a networking event, conference or convention_ Show your skills masterfully and you ·will be recognized and offered opportunities_ Change is upon you. ** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-<kt. 22): Nothing but your own laziness will stand between you and getting what you want. You can push your ideas and charm people into getting on hoard \1-~tb you. Children, creative hobbies and self-improvement projects will all play a role. 
***** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov.21): Contractors. renovations and domestic purchases will all cost more than you bargain for. You may want to make a few alterations that will save you money and keep you from bein~t swindled. Don't believe everything yon hear. *** 
SAGmARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be trapped into doing something you never 
thought you would do. A connnitment is apparent that will tie you up in more ways than yon imagined. Love and romance are in the stars and can bring you a lot of joy. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get your papers in order and take care of any matters conceming your home. family or property. Be careful not to give infonnation to someone who may use it against you. A lost love will cause you some problems_ *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 18): Make some changes at home that suit your needs and you will be able to start a new project to increase your earning potential. A love relationship will grow into something more spectacular than you imagined_ You will gel the support 
you need_ ***** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't count oo a promise_ An emotional or personal issue will leave you feeling empty. Don't give in to someone who is trying to get something from you. Once you realize that you can do just as well by yourself you will make gains. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are strong-willed, extremely efficient and a gifted communicator_ 
You have strength and courage. Yon are passionate and secretive about your personal likes 
and dislikes. 

Eugmia's IV.•b sites: eugeuialast.comfor coufideminl consulrntions, myspace.comleugenialast for Eugenia's blog, asr.roadvice.com forfim 
CROSSWORD 
Across Point the finger 
at 6 Impudent 10 Jail unit 14 Parts to play 15 One putting 
finishing touches on a cake 16 Light greenish blue 17 Worker for 15%, say 18 "Meet Me at the 
19 Japanese wrestling 
20 Fix part of dinner with lettuce. carrots, peppers, etc. 
22 Large part of a waiter's income 23 A.B.A. member: Abbr. 
24 Game company behind Sonic the Hedgehog 
26 Play a part 29 Go off like Mount 
St. Helens 31 Sailor's "Stop!" 35 Writer Harte 37 Put _ good 
word for 38 Words cried before "No hands!" 
39 Activity with bubbles 40 Retail giant 
selling dog food, birdcages and such 
42 Knots 43 Islands west of Portugal 45_-Magnon 
man 46Coupd'_ 47 Church council 48 Food Network 
stars 50 "_ you ready?" 51 Take a 39­
Across 53 Boneheads 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
0 N EIDIOIL LA R A 5 F 0 R H A v E FIA I T H 5 T 0 N E IDO.TCARE HARES 
0 I L T R I 0 B I G 0 T 
AN VII L M A I DEN 5 N E E I D y S T E R N~ ::§: ~ ~-·f1j! -:-:-r-=­
II E 5 T H E T E 5 I N 0 
*~l;f~: : : :-:-~ 
55 California 58 Prepare to camp 63 Minnesota's St. 
_ College 64 What "video" 
means literally 65 Bit part 66 Sitarist Shankar 67 In tatters 68 Perrier 
competitor 69 Pesky flier 70 Lighted sign 
over a door 71 Bush's 2004 opponent 
Down Kid with frequent temper tantrums 2 Golden arches, 
for McDonald's 3 Pub draughts 4 High-1.0. group 5 Billionaire's 
home 6 Petty 7 Environmental 
sci. 8 Meal 9 Swap 
10 Participate on Election Day 11 Prefix with lateral 
12 It's in your throat when you choke 
up 

T E't 13Vi•m;aoo.,Md -=-'"="" r-:-• 21 Bacon units 
~ ..;_ J._ B L I S S S U C R E 25 Fed. auditing 
RANDALL OGDEN agcy. 
A L 0 E 5 E R I C C A T 26 The P.L.O.'s 
H 0 U G H W E L L A I WI A R E Mahmoud 
E N 5 U E I N K E I R I A I 5 E R 27 Touched in the D E E M 5 5 E A OITITIE R 5 head 
WJLLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Randy Sowell 

28 Wyoming's _ 38 Sponge used in a 55 Tennis's Bjorn Range 39-Across 
56 Astronaut 30 Where 41 Moon shape Shepard or Beanwatermelons 

44 Psychologist/writer
grow LeShan 57 Coffee, slangily 32 Japanese dog 
48 Longtime 59 Garr or Hatcher 
33 Mascara mess Comiskey Park team, informally 60 Mideast bigwig 
34 Important sense for a gourmet 

49 Sissy of "Carrie" 
61 Close52 Ill will

36 Show childish anger 54 Prevent, with "off" 62 Broadway honor 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WWW.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

DAVID CAVADINI 
THE DOME PIECE 
I JUST WANNA SAY /.au ANO I RI!AI./.Y APPR5C/Ar£ Y'AU Hl!t.PING 05/.N/!R GREAr OOM5 PII!C£ rH/S Y5AR. IT'S R5AUY 855N 7H5 8555' KN££5. rHI!Ri:'S AN OP5N BAR STOCK/!0 WlrH rH£ rASTI! ANO liYI! !MNT' AN APPU PI/! WlrH H5R RI!GAROS, SO Pti!AS5 I!NJOY, 8U7' rRY NOT ro 00 ANY'rHI/VG STUPIO. I'M tOOKING Ar YOU, NINNY. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JEFF KNUREK 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek

JJ&MID11J! 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CAMPH 
I I I 
ZELPUZ 
rJ 1 

NEW .JUM3lE NINTENOO www.jumble.com/ds 
ICROGED j
[) [ [) 


WHAT THE: FRIE:NOS SHARE:D DURING THE: SAD LOVE: STORY. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: rI I I J [ I I I I) 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  Jumbles: Answer:  AMITY TYING DABBLE CORNEA When the corporate directors went surfing,  
they had a ­ "BOARD" MEETING  
The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, April27, 2009 
page 24 
FooTBALL 

Broncos choose Bruton in fourth round of NFL draft 
Five other former Irish players go undrafted but sign free-agent contracts; Brown, Crum yet to finalize plans 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
David Bruton, the playmaker of the Notre Dame secondary, is heading west. 
The Denver Broncos took Bruton, a former safety for the Irish, in the fourth round of the 2009 NFL Draft Sunday. Bruton 
MEN's lACROSSE 
Laxers defeat Buckeyes to finish undefeated in regular-season play 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

For the first time in Notre Dame men's lacrosse history, the team ended the regular sea­son undefeated. 
No. 3 Notre Dame (13-0, 5-0 GWLL) beat Ohio State (7-7, 3­
2) 14-8 Saturday in front of over 30,000 fans at the "Showdown at the 'Shoe," in Columbus. 
When the game began, a reg­ular-season NCAA record crowd of 30,192 fans was present. By the end of the game, according to Irish coach Kevin Corrigan, more than 70,000 fans were in the stands. The crowd and the atmosphere it created defined the "Showdown." 
see PERFECT/page 22 
was the 14th pick in the fourth round and the 114th overall selection. 
'Tm very excited to be a part of the Broncos, it's a good organization," Bruton said. "The coaching staff, when I was (in Denver). was great. The whole atmosphere of Denver was a great time being out there, even though it was a quick turnaround." 

Bruton started 24 of 25 games in the 2007 and 2008 seasons. His 97 tackles were good for second on the team in 2008. Bruton had seven career interceptions and three fumble recoveries and was a captain his senior season. 
Bruton also played a large role as a gunner on special 
teams, a role he will see often early in his NFL career. 
"I always try to put my best foot forward. I enjoy playing special teams," he said. "I enjoy always coming out ready to work, and I feel Notre Dame continued to prepare me throughout my four years to overcome a lot of adversity." 
Bruton ran a 4.42 40-yard 
Still perfect 

PAT COVENYfThe Observer Sophomore midfielder Zach Brenneman carries the ball around a St. John's defender during Notre Dame's 12-2 win over the Red Storm on April 12. 
ND SOFTBALL 
Bargar has tvvo vvins for sweep 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
There are two kinds of teams in Division I softball, those that fin­ish the season playing their best softball of the year and those that are running on empty. After win­ning eight consecutive Big East contests and 11 of their last 12, the Irish are clearlv one of the former and they head into post­season play with plenty left in the tank. 
Notre Dame (34-14, 15-3 Big East) completed a sweep of Syracuse Sunday by scores of 4-0 and 6-3, moving to second overall in the Big East with only five games to go. The Orange (28-18, 11-9) were simply overpowered by the surging Irish, who did not disappoint a packed crowd of 782 
see ORANGE/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Irish rally past Cardinals 
Tate hits first career homer to cap six-run late game comeback 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 

Sophomore Golden Tate's first career home run helped the Irish overcome a five-run deficit to defeat Louisville 13­12 Sunday in the rubber match of their weekend series in Louisville. 
The series victory gives the Irish (25-16, 10-8 Big East) their second straight in Big East play and hands the Cardinals (29-13, 12-6) their first conference series loss at home this season. 
In the decisive third game, the Irish found themselves down 12-7 heading into the 
see TATE/page 20 dash at the 2009 NFL Combine, sixth-best among defensive backs. 


"He's got great speed. I think he's the fastest safety in the draft," Broncos coach Josh McDaniels said in a press con­ference. "He could really impact us on three or four 
see BRUTON/page 22 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Squad defeats Hoyas for first Big East title 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Spores Writer 

The No. 10 Irish finally have their first Big East title after a 12­10 victory over No. 7 Georgetown Sunday in the final round of the Big East championship at Georgetown's Multi-Sport Facility. 
"It was such an awesome week­end," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. ''I'm so proud of our team. We've wanted this lor so long, and we're finally held to the same high standard as the other Notre Dame teams with our success." 
And the Irish (14-4, 5-2 Big East) should be proud of themselves, winning 16-10 over No.8 Syraeusn (12-4, 6-1) Friday afternoon, and coming back to take down the lloyas (12-5, 6-1) not even two days later. 
Senior goalkeeper Erin Goodman earnnd the tow-nament's Most Oul<>tanding Player honor. 
Against the Orange, senior attack Jillian Byers, junior attack Gina Scioscia and sophomore mid­field Kailene Abt made up for Notre Dame's April 11 loss at the Carrier Dome in which the Irish out<>cored the Orange 12-2 in the second half but fell 14-13. 
Friday, Byers had four goals and three assists to lead the Irish with seven points, followed close behind by Scioscia with two goals and three assists and Abt with four goal'> and an assist. 
Goodman led the defense, which allowed only 20 shots in the game and only two goals in the second half. Notre Dame also had 21 ground balls, 12 draw controls and 13 caused turnovers in the win. 
The lri<ih led 9-8 at the half after a goal from Byers with 21:49 left gave them the lead they never gave up. 
see FIRST/page 20 





