
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 84 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2009 

Team raises money for cancer research 
Women's basketball 'Pink Zone' game garners $38,000 to support fight against breast cancer 
About 1,200 other schools are involved in the project, Mallory said. These schools each hold their Pink Zone game on a dif­ferent day to benefit the cause. 
"We want to raise money for breast cancer research and make people more aware," she said. "We basically want to get the message across." 
Mallory said a silent auction took place before the game to raise funds, and doctors and members of breast cancer sup­port organizations spoke dur­ing timeouts and handed out pamphlets before the game to raise awareness. 
Breast cancer survivors spoke during halftime, Mallory said. Along with the basketball 
see PINK/page 6 By MADELINE BUCKLEY 


News Writer 

The Notre Dame Women's basketball team abandoned its normal uniforms in favor of pink jerseys during Sunday's game against DePaul University, helping to raise about $38,000 for breast can­cer research, according to sophomore Brittany Mallory, a sophomore guard on the team. 
The money was raised as part of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association's Pink Zone project, which enlists women's basketball teams around the country to desig­nate one game to be the Pink Zone game in order to raise money and awareness. 
Professor 'seriously injured' in roof fall 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame management pro­fessor Robert P. Vecchio was "seri­ou.<.;)y injured" after a fall from the roof of his Granger, Ind. home Saturday morning, according to a report by the South Bend Tribune. 
Vecchio fell from a height of at least 10 feet, Mike Gerndt, Clay fire battalion 
chief, told the Tribune. 
Emergency medical per­sonnel arrived at Vecchio's home at about 
9:30 a.m. 


S a t u r d a Y Vecchio morning, the Tribune said, and brought him to Memorialiiospital for treatment. A hospital nursing supervisor told the Tribune he remained in critical condition late Sunday. The Tribune said the circum­stances of the accident remained unclear, and did not report the extent ofVecchio's i!ljurins. Vecchio, the Franklin D. Schurz chaired professor of management, joined the l~tculty or Notrn Dame's Mendoza College of Business in 1976. According to a biography on a Mendoza Web site, Vecchio has taught and conducted research on issues related to organizational behavior and human resources management since arriving at Notre Dame. His work focuses on leadership, motivation, workplace emotion and employee envy. 

Warm temps surprise students 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Writer 
Weather, like the success of the football team, has become relative at Notre Dame: a victory in the Hawaii Bowl is reason for optimism and 40-degree temperatures call for shorts. 
For the first time in weeks, temperatures aver­aged in the high 30s over the weekend, with the thermometer even hitting 54 on Sunday. Combined with the unseasonable warmth, the sun has melt­ed away feet of snow. 
"I haven't worn shorts or 
gone without a jacket, but I have worn my jacket open," sophomore Mistee Colbert said. 
Shorts, T-shirts, and fewer people wearing Ugg boots with sweat pants were spotted around cam­pus. Students commented that the warm weather has also affected the general mood. 
"You have everyone smil­ing, the bright blue skies, and snow on the ground. It looks like it could be March or April instead of February," Colbert said. 
"It looks like people are standing up straighter," 
see WEATHER/page 4 

ND sends care packages to troops 
Senior's 'Sweets for Soldiers' project supported by ND initiative 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Members of the 2009, 2010 and 2011 class coun­cils -with help from stu­dents from each class ­gathPred in South Dining llall Sunday afternoon to build care packages for sol­diers who are fighting over­seas. 
The care packages are comprised of an assortment of goods ranging from candy and chips to basic necessi­
ties  like  deodorant  and  
toothpaste.  
Also included in the  care  

packages is a thank you note to the soldier and valentines. A table was set up in the LaFortune this 
past week where students could sign valentines that 
would  be  placed in  the  
packages.  
Notre  Dame  senior  

Christine Cartwright and her brother Kevin created the project Sweets for Soldiers in her hometown. 
"My brother and I started this project because we wanted to find a way to sup­port our troops," Cartwright said. "We have a Jot of fami­ly in the Air Foree, so we feel very connected to the war." 
Notre Dame was first involved in the project last year when Cartwright was a junior in Lyons Hall. She and then-junior Alyssa Corcoran held the project primarily as a dorm event. 
"When we initiated the project in Lyons it ran very smoothly," Corcoran said. "The large turnout gave us confidence to move it to a larger scale operation. 
Cartwright and Corcoran brought the idea to the sen­ior class council during the first semester in order to open the project up to the rest or the school. 
The project's first campus wide event took place in December when Sweets for Soldiers made care pack­ages for the holiday season. A variety of holiday-themed goodies, including Santa hats and reindeer hats, were included in that batch of packages. 
see PACKAGES/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Discount booklets up for sale 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Editor 
Students now have access to 

over $1,000 in savings at over 
100 local businesses, includ­
ing popular eateries like Taco 
Bell and Buffalo Wild Wings 
as well as lesser-known busi­
nesses like Tom's Restaurant 
and Macri's Bakery. 
Student government organ­

ized the booklet of coupons 
that were first put on sale last 
week. The books are now 
available for $10 at the 
see COUPONS/page 6 




Observer elects next top Editor 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer General Board elected News Editor Jenn Metz as the 2009-2010 Editor-in-Chief Sunday. 
Metz, a junior English and Romance Languages major with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, is a native of Westfield, N.J. who joined The Observer in her freshman year. 
Metz, who Jives in Cavanaugh Hall, covered a variety of stories for three semesters before study­ing abroad in Rome during the spring of 2008. 
''I'm honored at the opportunity to take over as Editor-in-Chief and to follow in the footsteps of the others who've held the position during my time at the University," Metz said. 
Metz became News Editor in the fall of 2008 and led The Observer's coverage of the presidential race and Notre Dame's role in it. She also wrote about and directed cov­erage of student relations with the University and the South Bend community, among many other issues, and reeruited new writers to work at The ObsPrver. 
"Jenn has done a fantastic job this past semestl{r as News Editor," outgoing Editor-in-Chief Chri'> Iline said. "She has a great relationship with everybody in the office and I have run confidence that she'll do a great job over the next year." 
During her tenure, Metz said she hopes to "uphold the reputa­tion of The Observer as a reliable source for news on campus and to keep students talking about what matters at Notre Dame." 
Metz will take over as Editor-ln­Chief on March 1. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 9, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


FMy Life 
Have you ever passed a building, saw someone inside and laughed because the person is fat and ugly before realizing you are looking at your reflection? I haven't. But 
anyone who is  
a frequent vis­itor to the  Madeline Buckley  
Web site 'F my life' would know that  News Production Editor  
someone has  
had that  

unfortunate experience. 
There are only so many ways to procrastinate doing homework. Facebook and Perez Hilton run out of new stories and photos after awhile and Postsecret is only updated once a week. As a result, F my life is my newly discovered procrastination tool. 
On the site, anyone can post sad truths about their own lives, always signing off with FML. Feeling sad, stressed or over­worked? F my life is the perfect solution to feeling better because most people can read the numer­ous posts and think 'at least my life doesn't suck that much' over and over again. 
I was referred to this site by a couple of my friends, and we get a (somewhat misplaced) sense of satisfaction from laughing at the sad problems of these people. 
The doomed feeling that is a result of an unfinished paper due in 12 hours can be counteracted completely by reading about the woman who received a text from her boyfriend of two years that stated, "Don't worry I'm gonna break up with her soon. Love you." 
The disappointment that follows not getting that perfect summer internship also can be solved this way: 
"Today, my girlfriend dumped me proclaiming she wanted some­one more like her "Edward." I asked her who Edward was. She held up a copy of her "Twilight" book. She was talking about a fic­tional vampire. FML." 
It works for pretty much any minor problem or stressor in life. Some may criticize this form of de­stressing. It can be misconstrued as slightly obnoxious to laugh at other people's crappy lives in order to feel better about your own life. It does not really solve the problem of the unfinished paper or unemployment for the summer. This begs the question, can that sort of thing actually make you feel better? 
The answer is a resounding yes. It really does work. Although there are a few posts that are truly pathetic, most are posted in good humor, and they allow you to enjoy a good self-satisfied laugh before moving on with the day. 
So, take my advice, and visit www.fmylife.com. Most likely, whatever chemistry test is looming won't look so bad after you have compared your own life to the lives of the people that post on this site. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd. edu. · 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis-rakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please conraa us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DID YOU ENJOY THE WARM WEATHER OVER THE WEEKEND? 







Meg Otten  Maggie Fechtel  Jeff Tarullo  Britt Mawby  Kathleen Hession  
sophomore Regina  freshman Holy Cross Hall  sophomore Morrisey  sophomore Walsh  senior off-campus  
"/ went running outside around  "/went shopping."  "/ came out of hibernation."  "/ broke out the shades."  "/ took the cast ofthe play I'm  

the lakes. It was very exciting." 

DAN JACOBSfThe Observer Carolyn Christian, student technical assistant at DPAC, works lights and sound for the Sunday performance of "The Great Tennessee Monkey Trial." 
OFFBEAT 
Escaped prisoner turns up in judge's trunk 
MOUNT CLEMENS, Mich.-A Michigan judge says he's learned a lesson about locking his car after a 16-year-old prisoner who escaped from a courthouse cell was found hiding in the vehicle's trunk. 
The Macomb Daily reports the teen had van­ished Friday after appear­ing in juvenile court in Mount Clemens on a pro­bation violation. 
Sheriff's deputies searched for about an hour until a security officer became suspicious when he saw a picture that had fallen to the ground outside judge's car. 

A deputy checked the car and found the boy in the trunk. 
Macomb County Circuit Judge Peter Maceroni says the teen likely used a but­ton inside the unlocked car to open the trunk. 
The judge says that from now on he will lock the car when he's at the court­house. 
Sri Lankan watches TV 72 hours to set world record 
STOCKHOLM -Suresh JoachinJ has broken his own Guinness world record for nonstop broadcast-television watching, clocking 72 hours in the Swedish capital. 
"I feel fine, I drank between 25 and 30 cups of coffee," Joachim said Sunday. 
His previous record was 69 hours, 48 minutes, set in 2005. 
Joachim, a Sri Lanka native who lives in Toronto, watched three seasons of the drama series "24" featuring Kiefer Sutherland, said Swedish TV4 spokeswoman Janina Witkowski.no contin­uing effects from the inci­dent. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
directing to the 
playground ­
the brillant Dr. 
Lagan." 
IN BRIEF 

The Women Writers' Festival will take place today from 4:30 
p.m. 
to 7 p.m., Tuesday from 5 

p.m. 
to 7 p.m. and Wednesday from 10:30 a.m. to 12 p.m. This interdisciplinary festival fea­tures Kim Hyesoon and Laura Solorzano. Translators Don Mee Choi and poet Jen Hofer, a poet will also attend. The festical will take place in the Hesburgh Center. 


A lecture entitled "The Role of Trans-Atlantic Relations in World Governance" will take place today at 4:30 p.m in 138 DeBartolo Hall. It will feature Guido Lenzi, Ambassador for the Italian Foreign Ministry. 
A lecture entitled "Bad-Time Commerce and Entrepreneurs: "Purchasing Normalcy" will take place today at 5 p.m. in 119 DeBartolo Hall. It will fea­ture Rahul Oka from the University of Illinois at Chicago and the Field Museum of Natural History. 
The Glass Club is having a sale of some of their products -etched glassware, jewerly, stained glass, and fused glass, in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. It will take place Thursday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
Brazilian Carnival will take place Friday from 8 p.m. to 11 
p.m. in South Dining Hall. The event will include music and dance by Chicago Samba, cos­tume contest, samba lessons and door prizes. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0. 
~ 
***if
If* * * 


HIGH 36 HIGH 40 LOW 25 LOW 22 
a: 
1.&.1 
:c 
~ 
1.&.1 

3: 
..... 
<1: 
(.) 0 
TODAY 
~ 
HIGH

.... 47 
LOW 43 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


0,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 

~ 


HIGH 45 HIGH 61 HIGH 54 LOW 42 LOW 45 LOW 31 


Atlanta 36 I 18 Boston 29 I 11 Chicago 38 I 33 Denver 63 I 39 Houston 62 I 38 los Angeles 76 I 50 Minneapolis 17 I 9 New York 30 I 13 Philadelphia 30 I 15 Phoenix 83 I 52 Seattle 57 I 42 St. louis 28 I 13 Tampa 56 I 31 Washington 31 I 19 

Monday, February 9, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC sees increase in e-n1ail scmns 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Phishing scams have com­promised Saint Mary's e-mail accounts this year more than ever before, according to Coordinator of Student Computing Kathy Hausman. 
"This year we've had a larger number reply to phish­ing scams and that's why we've tried to make more of an issue of it," Hausman said. "We've tried to send e-mail messages to say that Saini Mary's will never ask for passwords over e-mail. Unfortunately, we've had more people respond this year than ever before." 
According to Hausman, phishing scams are an attempt to get near money. 
"A phishing scam is some­body pretending to be some­one they are not, and they want your personal informa­tion -passwords, date of birth, your mother's maiden name to get into your credit info," Hausman said. 
She also said that phishing scams have also affected local banks. 
"Notre Dame Federal Credit Union and First Bank have both had phishing scams ... where e-mails have been sent giving a link to a Web site asking to provide account info." she said. 
But Hausman also said that phishers are expanding the ways they acquire personal information by using e-mail account info to send further phishing messages. 
"[Phishing scams] are also being used to log into e-mail accounts to send spam and additional phishing mes­sages," Hausman said. 
Hausman also said that people with '.edu' accounts 

are particularly vulnerable to these scams. 
"I think [the increase in scams] is because the phish­ers themselves are getting smarter. They know that they can say that your account can be deleted because they are associating '.edu' accounts to faculty and students," she. said. "They are also specifi­cally _men~ioning your web­mail account. They are try­ing to use key words that stu­dents hear all the time, so it's more difficult to determine whether it's real or not." 
According to Hausman, no legitimate institution, includ­ing colleges and banks, will ask for personal information over e-mail. 
"If you receive an e-mail directing you to a phone number or Web site to pro­vide this information, do not use the contact information or links provided in the mes­sage. Instead, contact the institution using their official­ly published phone number or Web site and ask for instruc­tions," she said. 
Phishing scams can even affect students who have· not had their accounts compro­mised by phishers because e­mail providers can block users on an entire network. 
Hausman explained that Hotmail, MSN, AOL, AT&T and SBCGlobal have repeat­edly blocked saintmarys.edu accounts after one address has been compromised, pre­venting any messages with saintmarys.edu addresses from being delivered to intended recipients. 
Hausman said that the best way to identify a phishing scam is to see if an e-mail message asks for passwords, account numbers, social security numbers, 9r address­es. 
"Never give out that infor­mation over e-mail," she said. 
Examples of recent phish­ing scams subject lines at Saint Mary's include "final verification of e-mail account," "e-mail account maintenance," and "alert: mail quota and confirm email account." 
Hausman said a recent phishing scam reported by msnbc.com exposed an inci­dent in which a man's Facebook account had been hacked into, telling his friends that he had been robbed at gunpoint and need­ed money. Many of his friends responded, with some even sending money to an account without realizing that it was a scam. 
Hausman said that Saint Mary's Department of Information Technology has been working to educate stu­dents about phishing scams. 
"Not only are they seeing all e-mail_ messages that say this is a phishing scam, we've also got a number of different advertising campaigns," she said. 
The Department of Information Technology will hold a "Computer Security Awareness" event in Vander Vennet Theatre on March 2. Topics will include protecting your computer from viruses and trojans, a review of phishing scams, password security, and online identity theft. 
Hausman also recommend­ed the SonicWALL Phishing and Spam IQ Quiz tests how well one can identify a legiti­mate e-mail from a phishing scam. The quiz can be found at www.sonicwall.com/phish­ing/. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

Sliced apples to return to both dining halls 

Previous apple supplier recalled product, 'similar' pr~duct to debut this Wednesday 
The new apples will be "very
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
similar" to the ones that the 
News Writer 
dining hall offered in the past. 
Since sliced apples are in Students missing the sliced high demand in the dining hall, apples in the South Dining Hall finding replacement apples 
can rest assured sliced apples will be available again on Wednesday. 
"Originally, it was a Richland Hills Product. They've recalled them. That's why you haven't seen them since break," Marc Poklinkowski, general manager 
because was necessary. 
"We go through almost 2000 pounds [of sliced apples] a week." 
Marc Poklinkowski manager South Dining Hall 
"We go through almost 2000 pounds [of sliced apples] a week," he said. "It was never our intention to scrap them or anything." 
With the absence of the sliced apples, students have been eating 
of South Dining Hall, said. more of the other available Due to the recall, the sliced fruits in the dining hall. 
apples have not been offered in "We've seen a lot more-of the 
the dining hall since before win­ter break, PokJinkowski said. 
The apples were recalled due to a fear of listeria, Poklinkowski said. He added that the recall was based on 
other fruits g o i n g , Poklinkowski
"It was never our 
said. 
intention to scrap To substitute them or anything.,, the sliced apples, some students slice their own 

Marc Poklinkowski 
apples, but manager Poklinkowski South Dining Hall recognized that 
Richland Hills' own in-house testing and that no illnesses have been reported due to the apples. 
Peterson Farms, one of the largest privately owned fruit processors in Michigan, will be the new supplier for sliced apples in the dining hall, Poklinkowski said. 
the sliced apples 
are still unique. 
"Some cut up their own apples, of course, it's not quite the same," Poklinkowski said. "It's nice that [the sliced apples] stay so nice and white and don't turn brown like the other ones," Poklinkowski said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 




.-------------­
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Monday, February 9, 2009 



Plant, Krauss take home 4 Grammys 
Brown now under investigation for assault 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Robert Plant and Alison Krauss' unorthodox musical partner­ship yielded rich rewards on Grammy night, as the pair won a leading four Grammys, including record of the year for the haunting "Please Read The Letter." 
At the same moment that the show was going on, teen heart­throb and double Grammy nominee Chris Brown was talk­ing with detectives about an alleged felony assault on an unidentified woman the night before. Police records showed he was being held on $50,000 bail. 
Brown and longtime girl­friend Rihanna, also nominat­ed, were both slated to perform in different slots of the show, but separately dropped out at the last minute. The victim of Brown's alleged assault wasn't identified, and it wasn't imme­diately clear whether Rihanna's absence was related to Brown's. 
Jennifer Hudson was there, however, and provided the night's most emotional moments onstage. The Oscar winner took her first Grammy award -for best R&B album -for her self-titled debut. 
Hudson, 27, made no direct reference to the October killings of her mother, brother and nephew that kept her in seclusion until just this month. But while fighting back tears, she made it clear that her fami­ly was foremost on her mind. 
"I first would like to thank God who has brought me through. I would like to thank my family in heaven and. those who are with me today. 
Hudson later performed "You Pulled Me Through," a dramat­ic song about overcoming deep despair, with the lyrics: "When I was drowning, when I was so confused, you, you pulled me through." As she sang the last note, she looked directly into the camera and dissolved into tears once again. 
There were no tears as Krauss and Plant accepted their awards for their emotion­rich CD, "Raising Sand." The pairing of the former Led 


Weather 
continued from page 1 
senior Greer Hannan added. 
Friday, when the cold forced many to bundle up, Hanna walked to Sacred Heart Parish Center for a weekend retreat. On Sunday's return journey, she noticed a change had overcome the campus -much of the snow had melted and people were out jogging. 
"A retreat makes it feel like you're coming alive, and see­ing the snow melt reinforces that," Hannan said. 
A group of students gath­ered on Mod Quad Sunday to play Frisbee. They remarked that the disc was much easier to throw and catch without gloves. 
"The weather is so nice and warm and this is the first time I've seen green grass in a while," sophomore Kim Zeppelin rocker and Krauss, a bluegrass queen, may have seemed downright weird on paper, but the T Bone Burnett­produced album was universal­ly acclaimed. 
Plant said "Please Read The Letter" was "an old song that me and Jimmy Page wrote together post Led Zeppelin, and it's been given that Nashville touch, and it feels pretty good." 
The Grammy telecast was filled with eye-popping and eyebrow-raising performances, from Radiohead's collaboration with a college marching band to a televised black-and-white throwback performance from Jay-Z, T.I., Lil Wayne, Kanye West an,~ a very pregnant M.I.A. 
But the absences of Brown and Rihanna put a huge hole in the Grammy telecast. Rihanna was supposed to sing "Live Your Life/Disturbia" as the sec­ond performance of the night, Brown was later to sing "Forever." Each was nominated in the pop collaboration with vocals category, Brown for "No Air" with "American Idol" champion Jordin Sparks; and Rihanna for ''If I Never See Your Face Again" with Maroon 5. 
Brown was also nominated for male R&B vocal perform­ance for "Take You Down." 
Neither won a Grammy on Sunday, and the Recording Academy found able replace­ments for their performance slots in Justin Timberlake, AI Green, Boyz II Men and Keith Urban as they all sang Green's classic hit, "Let's Stay Together." No mention was made on the broadcast about the switch. 
According to the police report, released 90 minutes before the show began Sunday, Brown and a woman were in a vehicle in the ritzy neighbor­hood of Hancock Park when they began to argue around 
12:30 a.m. Sunday. Brown stopped the car and both got out, whereupon the argument escalated, the report said. 
The woman, who had visible injuries when police arrived, identified Brown as her attack­er, but he had left the scene, the report said.' 
Schlesinger said. 
''I'm just afraid that it's going to snow 12 inches tomorrow," sophomore Eddie McDonough added. 
Others were pessimistic that the change was only a tempo­rary reprieve, and not a sign of spring. 
"I definitely plan on enjoy­ing this weather while it lasts, because it will probably be snowing tomorrow," said Colbert. 
According to The Weather Channel Web site, the tem­perature should remain in the 30s for the rest of the week, even reaching the 50s the next two days. 
Sophomore Cait Listro said that the warm weather has made her feel better about being at Notre Dame. 
"It makes me feel. a lot bet­ter about being in South Bend for the winter," she said. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
ages are found through a for Iraq and throughout the public listing of soldiers, Middle East. She said that


Packages 
anysoldier.com, they will which provides arrive within

continued from page 1 "My brother and I 
names and the next few
started this project 

"We receive letters from addresses of sol­weeks. the soldiers giving us feed­diers who typi­because we wanted to The pro­back about what they want cally do not gram is fund­
find a way to support

us to ship-to them," receive packages. ed primarily Cartwright said. "Typically Cartwright esti­our troops. " through they ask for junk food mated that there donations because the army does not will be more than Christine Cartwright given by fam­give them any." one hundred ily and
senior 

Among other popular packages includ­items, Cartwright said that ed in this ship­men often ment. Sweets for request Soldiers shipped
"Typically they ask 
deodorant and out around 150
for junk fopd
women ask for packages during feminine because the army Christmas, and 
hygiene prod­does not give them they are hoping 
ucts. These their numbers
any.
necessities are will continue .to often hard to grow.
Christine Cartwright 
come by while Cartwright said serving in the senior the packages war. made today will 
The soldiers that are be shipped out at the end of selected to receive the pack-the week. They are destined 

WAX ON 


WAX OFF 

WEDNESDAY 
258-5080
_....,...._.,._
820 w. Edieon. Rcl. ~rt.l 


Where the girls are. 
JUST ONE BLOC~. EAST Of NOTRE DP-ME 
Wonder where NO girls are living next year? 
Brand new Irish Row Apartments and Irish Cros5ings lownhomes are leaS!NJ fast fo1 both the 2009·2010 ar.d 2010·2011 s.chool years 



t ....

Interestingly, future residents are 80% girls and 20% . guys so far --~that's lour girls to every one guy. ' :;w.. 
·.\" 
What brings the girls? 

fvtlyoe 1t'~ the wol features that wme with living at !rish Row or Irish Crossings, like: 
• furnithed H:osidences 

·· lnduding a 42" flat panel HOTV in every living mom 
• 
Private. full bath in eact bf:>droom • laundry room With wirihe & dryer in each unl! 

• 
IJp to 4 bedwoms per unit • fitn~s cf:nter and lounge. induding tanning 

• 
FREE !mernet & 200+ TV stations • Brand n~w constructiOn 

• 
Community soda! evenh 

• 
CloS€ ro gn:m.'fies. testourants, emertak;mem and campus 





Come see what's bringing in aU the girts. But, better hurry before at! the guys catch on. 
Irish 
ROW 


. Milof~-. -~·r.•>~ lrishRnwApMtmentuom l lrishCrossings.c:om
• !:,;,r;~;mrhi;i~hfl:lWilp.q,r~ms..:om l 94.277 6666 

Now offering body waxing... 
• 

Take$5off 
friends. 
Notre Dame has also donated to the pack­ages that were created on campus. Cartwright said that donations are key to keeping the program going. 
"I would like to see this program to continue," said Corcoran said, encouraging interested people to visit their Web site, www.sweets­forsoldiers.com. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 9, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Gaza military rocket hits south 
JERUSALEM-Israel's military says a rock­et fired from Gaza in violation of an informal truce has struck an Israeli communal farm. 
The military says one car was set ablaze and several others were damaged by shrap­nel. No injuries were reported. 
Israel unilaterally halted a blistering, three­week Gaza operation on Jan. ·18. Hamas announced later that day that if would hold its fire. 
But the two sides have not agreed on a for­mal cease-fire. Egypt is trying to mediate such an agreement. 
Militants have sporadically fired rockets into Israel since declaring their cease-fire. They also killed one soldier in a border bombing attack. · 
24 dead in Brazil plane crash 
.) SAO PAULO -Four people at the rear of a plane that crashed in a muddy Amazon river managed to open an emergency door and swim to safety itS the aircraft sank, dragging 24 others to their death, officials said Sunday. Most victims were members of a single fam­ily that had chartered the plane· to travel to a birthday party. Seven children died. "It was all very fast. The plane sank very fast," 21-year-old survivor Brenda Moraes told Brazil's GloboNews TV. "We only had a chance because we were sitting in the last rows and could open the emergency door." Divers on Sunday recovered two dozen bod­ies from the twin turboprop plane that plunged into the Manacapuru river in a heavy rainstorm the day before, ending rescue oper­ations after all passengers and crew were accounted for, said firefighter Maj. Jair Ruas Braga. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Hudson River pilot describes crash 
NEW YORK -The pilot who ditched his jetliner in the Hudson River and saved the lives of everyone on board said he had a "sickening" feeling when a flock of birds dis­abled both engines with violent thuds, crip­pling the plane at 3,000 feet over the nation's most populous city. 
Capt. Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger said in an interview with CBS' "60 Minutes" that the sound of the geese hitting the plane and the smell of burning poultry entering the cabin was "shocking." 
"Oh, you could hear them," he said. "Loud thumps. It felt like the airplane being pelted by heavy rain or hail. It sounded like the worst thunderstorm I'd ever heard growing up in Texas. 
The interview with Sullenberger and the other four crew members was broadcast Sunday, their first since US Airways Flight 1549landed in the frigid water Jan. 15. 

Governor to testify in senator's trial 
PHILADELPHIA -The defense in the federal corruption trial of a former state senator is aim­ing to roll out its big guns Monday with the testi­mony of Pennsylvania Gov. Ed Rendell. 
Rendell is expected to provide brief testimony that acknowledges the long hours Vmcent Furno worked on behalf of the state when he was in the Senate. 
'They worked their hearts out here. They work a minimum of 1 0-hour days and at budget time 20-hour days," Rendell said last week at the Capitol. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Judge approves pay raises 
SOUTH BEND -A judge has ordered the St. Joseph County Council to approve $79,000 in pay raises for his eight employees despite a projected $4.3 million county government deficit. 
Probate Judge Peter Nemeth had warned at a council meeting last month that he would order the raises through a judicial mandate after the council cut them from his court's 2009 budget. 
Indiana Supreme Court trial rules allow judges to override county council spending decisions if judges deem spending essential to administer ju'i­ticfl.the rest of the way 
Tough week ahead for Obama 
President struggles to convince divided Congress to approve economic stimulus package 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Barack Obama 
plunges into a difficult test 
of his leadership this week, 
struggling to get a divided 
Congress to agree on his 
economic recovery pack­
age while pitching a new 
plan to ease loans to con­
sumers and businesses. 
The Senate's $827 billion 
stimulus legislation seems 
assured narrow passage by 
Tuesday. Harder work for 
Obama and the Democrats 
comes in the days ahead, 
when the House and 
Senate attempt to reconcile 
differences in their two 
versions. 
Obama and Democratic 
Party leaders had hoped to 
have a bill ready for the 
president's signature by 
Feb. 16 -a deadline that 
grows more challenging by 
the day. 
At the Treasury . 
Department, Secretary 
Timothy Geithner delayed 
the unveiling of a new 
bailout framework for 
financial institutions from 
Monday to Tuesday to let 
the administration focus on 
the Senate legislation. 
Geithner is considering 
steps to broaden the use of 
a new lending facility at 
the Federal Reserve, pro­
vide government guaran­

tees to help banks deal Senate bill has a greater communities. that Republicans won't be with their troubled assets, emphasis on tax cuts, "To get any Republicans involved in the final negoti­·and continue direct infu­while the House bill at all, you had to adopt a ations. 'That's the way the sion of capital into banks in devotes more money to cut that's going to mean Bush administration, when exchange for securities and states, local governments policemen and firemen are we Republicans were in tougher accountability and schools. going to be laid off," he charge -that's the way rules. ·Lawrence Summers, said. we did business," he said. For Obama, the economy Obama's top economic Sen. John Ensign of "But I thought we were 
has become a two-front adviser, signaled the strug­Nevada, a member of the going to have change." 
engagement, with one gle ahead as he made the Senate Republican leader­Obama will take his case 
effort aimed at creating or rounds of Sunday morning ship, dismissed Frank's to the AlilCrican people at 
saving jobs and the other talk shows. "There are cru­complaint as "fear-mon­8 p.m. EST Monday with 
at unfreezing the credit cial areas, support for gering." his first prime-time news 
markets. Amid the urgency higher education, that are The Senate bill is finely conference. He'll also par­
created by nearly 600,000 things that are in the tuned. With only two or ticipate in town hall-style 
new unemployed workers House bill that are very, three Republicans on meetings in cities suffering 
last month and new bank very important to the pres­board, it is guaranteed, at particularly hard times ­
failures, Obama's economic ident," he said on ABC. most, 61 votes; the bill Elkhart, Ind., on Monday 
prescriptions are coming Rep. Barney Frank of needs 60 votes to advance and Fort Myers, Fla., on 
under critical scrutiny by Massachusetts, the and avoid procedural hur­Tuesday. 
both Congress and the Democratic chairman of dles. Any change in the The House and Senate 
American public. the House Financial balance struck by the are scheduled to go on 
The House and Senate Services Committee, Senate biJl could doom it. recess next week, but con­
bills are about $7 billion warned that reductions in Sen. John McCain, R­gressional leaders have 
apart in cost and overlap in state spending in the Ariz., a vocal critic of the said they will not leave 
numerous ways. But the Senate bill would hurt local stimulus bill, complained until the bill is completed. 

IRAQ 


Women's minister resigns in protest 
$1,500 per month-part of overall gov­children and virtually no safety net or
Associated Press 

ernment spending cuts forced by plung­job opportunities. 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's state minister for ing oil prices. The figure didn't include Al-Samarraie claimed Iraq has 3 mil­women's affairs has quit to protest a staff salaries. lion widows, calling it "a full army of lack of resources for a daunting task -"I reached to the point that I will never widows, most of them not educated." improving the lives of "a full army of be able to help the women," said al­The figure, which she said came from a widows" and other women left poor or Samarraie, whose job lasted just six government survey, includes those who abandoned by war. months. "The budget is very limited ... so lost their husbands under Saddam 
In an interview Sunday with The what can I do?" Hussein's regime and was impossible to Associated Press, Nawal al-Samarraie Al-Samarraie's resignation has cast a verifY. described how her office's budget was so spotlight on the overwhelming·problems All Iraqis have undergone dilliculties, tight that she often found herself dipping facing Iraqi women, tens of thousands of but women face the additional danger of into her own pockets for the women them left poor or widowed by war. being sidelined in a male-dominated who came begging for help. An untold number have lost their hus­society. Widows in Iraq, for example, 
She said she finally submitted her res­bands or other male relatives to violence traditionally move in with their extended ignation last week in part because her or detention since the 2003 U.S.-led families, but many families find it budget was slashed from $7,500 to invasion, often leaving them alone with increasingly difficult to care for them. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 9, 2009 
mustered a large crowd, she said.

Pink 
"There was a good amount of 

UPCOMING EVENTS SPONSORED BY THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUR<WFAN STUDIES 
continued from page 1 
players, many fans also donned pink outfits, and the first 2,000 fans to arrive at the game received pink T-shirts, she said. 
"We had a lot of pink going on," Mallory said. "We had pink jerseys, pink shoelaces and a pink hair extension in our hair." · 
Mallory said 25 percent of the money raised during Sunday's game will go to the Kay Yow cancer fund, which honors the North Carolina State women's basketball coach who died of breast cancer in January. 
The remaining funds raised will go to the local women's health organization, Women's Task Force, she said. 
If the Pink Zone game had sold out, the team was going to donate an extra $10,000 to the cause, Mallory said. The game did not sell out, but the project people at the game, so we gave an extra $5,000 to the fund," Mallory said. 
Mallory said she was also part of a management class last semester that had the stu­dents publicize the Pink Zone game as a part of a class proj­ect. 
"fThe class] designed the T­shirt we gave out today," she said. "We also called doctors and St. Jos~ph hospital to come and give out pamphlets for breast cancer." 
Mallory said she believes the Pink Zone game achieved its purpose. 
"I think it was very success­ful, and I think a lot of people got the message. We raised a lot of money which was our main goal," she said. "We were happy about that." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
I 



Coupons 
continued from page 1 
LaFortune Box Office. 
Student body vice president Grant Schmidt said the book-· lets were part of his and stu­dent body president Bob Reish's campaign platform. 
Value Checks, a South Bend company, produced the book­lets, he said. 
"We worked with them to 
basically figure out what restaurants  "Jt,s definitely a bang for the buck. It,s not  government con­tacted Value Checks at the  
and businesses  a scam.  end of the fall  
would  be  the  semester to pur­ 
best," he said, specifically looking for places "stu­ Grant Schmidt student body vice president  sue the project. "We went over and looked through the ven­ 

dents would find most appealing." 
Schmidt said student gov­ernment offers the booklets as a service to students. At the same time, they are a part of efforts to improv·e relations with the South Bend communi­
ty, senior Ashlee Tan, Meijer,
':4 lot of what we,re

Wright, chair or­others."
doing is promoting 

the Senate Schmidt University places that pointed out Affairs commit-are smaller. ,, discounts for a -tee, said. South Bend "We need [to Silver Hawks improve] the Grant Schmidt game and the relationship student body South Bend between Notre vice president Symphony, 
Dame and the South Bend com­munity and anything that gets students in the community, especially off the Grape Road venues" is helpful, she said. 
They want students to "try things thy might not have already tried," she said. 
Schmidt said the booklet covers the entire Michiana area, and discounts range from free appetizers to a free sandwich with the purchase of another, among other offers. 
"A lot of what we're doing is promoting places that are 
ues," Schmidt said, and select­ed more than 100 businesses. 
Wright and Schmidt noted that a wide variety of busi­nesses have coupons in the book. 
"It's not just food in there," Wright said. "There's Tiki 
among others. 
The book was personalized for Notre Dame, and will be sold throughout the semester, Wright said. 
The coupons are valid through th~ end of 2009, she said. 
Schmidt said in the future stude~t government would like to develop a discount card· that allows students to get a set percentage discount at participating venues. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
smaller," Schmidt said, focus­ing on businesses "you've never heard of." 
Typically these types of coupon booklets are sold as fundraisers, Schmidt said, but "this is not a fundraiser by any means." 
"It's definitely a bang for the buck. It's not a scam," Schmidt said, noting that stu­dents are free to look through the booklet before they pur­chase one. 
Wright said 
that student 

EUROPEAN UNION LECTURE 
The Role ofTrans-Atlantic Relations in World Governance 
Monday, February 9th 138 DeBartolo Hall 4:30P.M. 
, . DIPLOMACY AS AN INTERNATIONAL CAREER Tuesday, February 1Oth Montgon1ery Theatre LaFortune Student Center 4:30P.M. 
ITALY TODAY Wednesday, February 11th The Gallery at Bond Hall 5:00P.M.. 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, February 9, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,280.59 +217.52 
Up: 2,558  Same: 70  Down: 550  Composite Volume: 2,193,482,597  
AMEX  
 
NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  1,591.71 +45.47 5~4~5iiiT+t49.'t1 868.60 22.75  

NIKKEI (Tokyo){ .. FTSE 100 (London) 4,291.87 +62.94 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +26.65 +1.29 6.13 SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +2.85 +2.409 86.979 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) +17.46 +0.68 9.79 CITIGROUP INC (C) +10.76 +0.38 3.91 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.72 +0.079 2.979 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.000 0.270 30-YEAR BOND +1.35 +0.049 3.683 5-YEAR NOTE +3.18 +0.060 1.945 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.00 4.17 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.10 914.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.15 80.15 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.0150 EURO 1.2924 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2194 BRITISH POUND 1.4788 
IN BRIEF 

Republicans wary of stimulus bill 
WASHINGTON -Republican congressional leaders and a key House Democrat are voicing misgivings -but for different reasons -over the Senate version of an economic recovery plan costing more than $800 billion. 
Sen. John Ensign of Nevada:-and Rep. Mike Pence of Indiana, both members of Republican leadership teams, complain that the legislation has too mueh spending and not enough in tax cuts. 
A top House Democrat, Rep. Barney Frank of Massachusetts, says the Senate bill cuts spending necessary to protect the jobs of policemen and firefighters. 
The Senate cut $40 billion in aid to state governments contained in a House version of the legislation. 
The Senate is expected to pass its bill on Tuesday. It then has to be reconciled with the House version. 
Drugmakers' push boots murky illness 
WASHINGTON -Two drugmakers spent hundreds of millions of dollars last year to raise awareness of a murky illness, helping boost sales of pills recently approved as treatments and drowning out unresolved questions -including whether it's a real dis­ease at all. 
Key components of the industry-funded buzz over the pain-and-fatigue ailment fibromyalgia ar~ grants -more than $6 mil­lion donated by drugmakers Eli Lilly and Pfizer in the first three quarters of 2008 -to nonprofit groups for medical conferences and educational campaigns, an Associated Press analysis found. 
That's more than they gave for more accepted ailments such as diabetes and Alzheimer's. Among grants tied to specific diseases, fibromyalgia ranked third for each company, behind only cancer and AIDS for Pfizer and cancer and depression for Lilly. 
Fibromyalgia draws skepticism for several reasons. The cause is unknown. There are no tests to confirm a diagnosis. Many patients also fit the criteria for chronic fatigue syn­drome and other pain ailments. 
Experts don't doubt -the patients are in pain. They differ on what to call it and how to treat it. 

Plan supports higher education 
Stimulus package could offer boostfor student financial aid, campus construction projects 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. The stimulus plan emerging in Washington could offer an unprecedented, multibillion­dollar boost in financial help for college students trying to pursue a degree while they ride out the recession: 
It could also hand out bil­lions to the states to kick­start idled campus con­struction projects and help prevent tuition increases at a time when families can least afford them. 
But cuts of $40 billion for state and local governments in the Senate version were a big disappointment for col­lege leaders. House-Senate negotiations will determine whether education aid to the states -is relatively mod­est or massive -and how much gets directed to high­need institutions for build­ing projects, versus elite universities that would ben­efit if the final package spends more of the money on scientific research. 
Students are big winners. Both the House and Senate bills call for the largest-ever funding increase for Pell Grants, the government's chief college aid program for low-income students. 
It will take muCh of the proposed $15. 6. billion increase in the House ver­

sion (slightly less in the "Long-term, if we want a money might be divided jobs. Meanwhile, the system Senate) just to erase the better economy, we need between K-12 and higher may have to cut 10,000 existing funding shortfall more people going to col­education, and a portion enrollment slots. and meet the surging lege," Education Arne could go to things besides The House bill has $6 bil­demand as the economy Duncan told The Associated education. The Senate ver­lion for such projects, while sours and more students Press last week. sion calls for $39 billion. the Senate has none. enroll. College leaders meeting in Meanwhile, colleges are "We're ready to go, 
But the package would Washington this week for hoping Congress will agree there's great jobs involved, also increase next year's the American Council on restarting idled building and we're educating kids maximum award by up to Education's annual meeting projects is an efficient short­who wouldn't have other $500, to $5,350, starting will be grateful for the stu­and long-term investment. opportunities if we weren't July 1. That's the biggest dent aid boost. But they'll be As they lose revenues from there," Chuck Middleton, increase in history and closely watching how state support, endowments president of Roosevelt would cover three-quarters Congress bridges the huge and tuition, hundreds of University in downtown of the cost of the average gaps between how much projects are on hold nation­Chicago, said Sunday. His public four-year college. the House and Senate ver­wide, from a library exten­university has a $135 mil­
Most Pel! recipients come sions propose spending to sion at Fresno State to new lion new building with class­from families earning less bail out state budgets and dorms at Washington rooms, labs, dorms and than $40,000. And support­prevent drastic education University in St. Louis and a offices on hold after fmanc­ers note the new Pel! dollars cuts. biology lab at Yale. ing dried up. Construction would be spent almost The House bills calls for The California State could be under way in six immediately -students $79 billion to prevent cuts University system alone has months, he says, providing can't save them -while to local school districts and halted 130 projects, which it 600 jobs for two years while also paying off down the public higher education. But values at $850 million and helping Roosevelt's diverse road. it's not yet clear how the says account for 13,000 student body. 

More students seekmmmunity mlleges 
workers. her first semester at Eastern Nazarene 
Associated Press 

But community colleges aren't College in Massachusetts. But as the 
CONCORD, N.H.-College freshman exactly cheering in this down econo­economy fell, she began rethinking the Elizabeth Hebert's choice of a four­my: Tuition doesn't come close to cov­thousands of dollars in loans she was year school suddenly got too expen­ering costs, and the state funds used carrying-at age l8. sive. George Haseltine already has a to make up the difference are drying "It was the realization of paying business degree, but he concluded up. $30,000 a year for four years, and after several layoffs that he needed Final figures aren't in for this semes­then to take that in loans, it was just more training to get work. ter, but a national group representing way too much," said Hebert, who is 
So, in the middle of this school year, community colleges says the average now paying $3,000 a semester at both landed at New Hampshire increase from spring-to-spring is dra­NHTI. Technical Institute, which like other matic, and similar to what New Haseltine, 25, of Hochester, said he community colleges across the country Hampshire is reporting at its seven was tired of being laid oil' from various has suddenly -grown a lot more crowd­schools -a range of 4 percent to 19 jobs, so he drives almost an hour for ed. percent. his two-year criminal justice program. 
The two-year schools are reporting The figure is 20 percent in Maine He hopes to become a police officer~ unprecedented enrollment increases and South Carolina. One school in "The economy being in shambles this semester, driven by students from Idaho has more than twice the num­pretty much; being constantly laid off; traditional colleges seeking more ·bang ber of students this spring over last. and not having lucrative job offers," for their buck and by laid-off older Last fall, Hebert, of Antrim, began he said. "They are three reasons why." 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 9, 2009 

Feed your future 
See the difference 100 PwC 1nterns made in Belize. 

Begin at www.pwc.tv 


Q. 2009 Pric&waterhou,...Coopers LLP_ All rights reserved. •p,icawatefhous.,Coopers· refers to Pflc&waterhous.,Coopors LlP or, as the conteJt! requlro>s, the Pricawaterhou$eCoopers global n01work or other memb<>r firms olthe network. each of whtch is a separate and independent legal entity_ We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Monday, February 9, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Page 9 

Unemployed use 
timefor~th,family 
Associated P~s 
FOND DU LAC, Wis. -Jay Capelle would give anything to get back his factory job of 32 years. At the same time, he's grateful to have extra time on his hands these days to care for his ailing wife, stay in shape and work on a long-planned baseball documentary. 
The unemployed are stressed out about unpaid bills, dashed retirement plans and the loss of workplace camaraderie. But many say life minus work also has its bittersweet upsides, including more time with family and friends, learning new skills, focusing on their health and pursuing hobbies. 
There is a wide range of opin­ions, of course, about just how sweet, or bitter, the experience has been. 
An idled auto worker in Wisconsin cherishes extra time with his kids, and his guitar. A former communications worker in Virginia fmds time for hiking as a distraction from the job search. But two jobless friends in North Carolina who've played plenty of golf together · say enough is· enough: they're ready again for the joy of earn­ing a paycheck. 
All of these people said they would give up their newfound free time in a heartbeat if they could land jobs. And most spend hours each day trying. But as unemployment spells drag on longer than anticipat­ed, they have allowed them­selves to enjoy activities not directly related to the job hunt without feeling guilty. 
Alex Swain, 36, of Leesburg, Va., said his fruitless search for work has been discouraging. Since losing his job last April at a wireless communications company, Swain has applied for more than 200 jobs, gone on 10. interviews and has not had a single offer. 
But rather than sulking in front of the television when he's not searching online job post­ings, Swain forces himself to keep up with hobbies like play­ing music, painting and hiking. 
"You can't stay in the house all day or you'll lose your mind," he. said. 
Others are spending time in the classroom. 
Andre Lovato, 55, of Waukesha, Wis., who was laid off from his job at a signmaking company in 2006, earned a degree in printing and publish­ing from a technical college in December. Lovato, who has applied for 35 jobs since then without any luck, devotes his free time to woodcarving, sketching and computer illus­trations. 
But as his unemployment drags on, he longs for interac­tion with colleagues and getting praise for a job well-done. 
"I miss showing my work and having people say, 'Hey man, you did pretty good stuff,"' he said. 
Associated Press 
CHEYENNE, Wyo. -When Erica Olivares ran away from home at age 16, the penalty was not a stern lecture -it was a month in Laramie County jail. Soon, under the tutelage of adult criminals, she was addicted to drugs. 
·"Methamphetamine, I'd never even heard about that. And I heard about that in there," said Olivares, now 26. 
Legally, she should never have been in position to learn such harsh le~sons. Runaways are not supposed to be put in jail, let alone meet adult law­breakers on the inside, under a 34-year-old federal law called the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act. 
Yet year after year, some states disregard key parts of the law with little conse­quence, an Associated Press examination has found. Those states included Wyoming, Mississippi, South Carolina and Washington in 2006, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press under the Freedom of Information Act. 
The federal law provides funds for compliance, money that can be withheld for failure to comply, just as millions in federal highway funds can be lost by states not setting a drinking age of 21. But the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act provides far less grant money -from $600,000 to about $7.5 million annually per state. This is less than the cost of building juvenile lockups and hiring guards trained to work 


States disregard juvenile justice lavv 
with juveniles. States feel less public pressure to comply, juvenile advocates say. 
The U.S. Department of Justice, which administers the act, has a policy of not naming publicly the noncompliant states and not disclosing how those states have run afoul of the law. As a result, many kids become victims, advocates say. 
"Kids' lives are literally at stake," said Liz Ryan, execu­tive director of the Campaign for Youth Justice, a Washington, D.C.-based group that lobbies to keep youths out of jail. "They can be harmed in adult jail, they can be harmed in juvenile correctional facili­ties." 
The Senate Judiciary Committee began debating renewal of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act in 2008. The process bogged down but is expected to resume in the new Congress. Ryan said she's hopeful that the Obama admin­istration will be on board to improve the law significantly and release to the public more information gathered under the act. 
Advocates say the law's renewal is a good time to open up {irocedures, require every state to have a full-time com­pliance monitor and reverse steep cuts in federal funding for juvenile justice programs. 
The law contains four core areas: 
+First, juveniles generally should not be held in adult jail. 
+Second, if they are put in an adult jail -for an adult felony or if space isn't immedi­ately available at a juvenile facility -they must be sepa­rated from adult inmates .. 
+Third, juveniles should not be locked up for age-specific crimes, such as running away or possessing alcohol. 
+.Finally, states should not lock up minority youth at a higher rate than other kids. 
The states in violation have remained largely unknown over the years -to advocates and even elected officials. U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass., a member of the Judiciary Committee, has said he's had trouble obtaining information. 
"Congress does not receive reports on whether a state has met the standards in the act, and states are not required to publish their state plans. The result has been a serious lack of transparency and accounta­bility in compliance," Kennedy said in a statement to the AP.. 
Itwas only after a six-month, back-and-forth process under FOIA that the AP obtained records of states' compliance from the Justice Department's Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. 
The office said itdoesn't rou­tinely -name noncompliant states because it doesn't want to embarrass them. 
"I don't think it's ever a good customer-friendly service to embarrass somebody, do you?" said Greg Thompson, an offic_e administrator who works with states to comply with the law. "I think we achieve more by working collegially with the states rather than trying to work adversarially with them." 

Organrecipients meet victim's family 
Five people receive organs from man killed in tragic church shooting 
Associated Press 
CLIFTON, N.J. -James O'Hea was told privately his failing heart gave him little more than a month to live. Terence Begley's diabetes meant more years of dialysis and deteriorating kidneys. 
That was before a tragic event -the shooting of three people in a church last November -turned life­affirming through the quick response of one victim's fami­ly. 
O'Hea, Begley and three other people received organs from 25-year-old Dennis John Malloosseril (mahl-LOO'-sir­ihl). He was shot and killed Nov. 23 as he tried to break up an argument between a fellow church member and her estranged husband, according to police and wit­nesses. 
O'Hea, Begley and the other recipients -Malta Hameed, 40, of Clifton; Migdalia Torres, 52, of Cleveland, Ohio, and John Muscarella, 22, of East Newark-attend­ed a memorial service for Malloosseril on Sunday at the St. Thomas Syrian Orthodox Knanaya (kah-nahn-NIGH'­ya) Church, where the shoot­ing happened. 
Before the service, the recipients had an emotional meeting with Mallossseril's parents. 
"They bent down and lis­tened to my heart," O'Hea said. "I had tears rolling down my cheeks." 
Torres, who has suffered for 25 years from lupus that has affected her kidneys, recalled jumping out of bed at 6 a.m. on the morning after the shooting when she received a call that an organ match had been found. Like the others, she admitted hav­ing mixed feelings about the events that led to her trans­plant. 
"I knew someone would have to die for me to get a kidney, but I didn't expect it to be the way he died," she said Sunday. 
For the 57-year-old O'Hea, who was suffering congestive heart fai~ure, the donation and transplant literally meant a new lease on life. 
"I was weak and basically bedridden," O'Hea said last week. "My cardiologist agreed that if I hadn't gotten a heart, I would not have made it through December." 
Begley, 39, who no longer requires the thrice-weekly dialysis treatments he has endured for the last four years, received Malloosseril's kidney and pancreas. Hameed received a liver and Torres received a kidney. 
Muscarella suffers from cystic fibrosis and· had been given a less than 50 percent chance of surviving more than two years had he not .. 
received  both  of  
Malloosseril's lungs.  
Malloosseril  died of his  

wounds on the night of the shooting, two days before he would have turned 26. His family decided to donate his organs. 
"It's so totally altruistic," said William Reitsma, direc­tor of clinical services for NJ Sharing Network, the non­profit organization that coor­dinated the recovery of Malloosseril's organs. "It's not like this family knew these people, these are peo­ple they've never met. It's not like you're doing this· for a friend or a cousin, it's some­thing totally altruistic, and our community isn't too given to doing this anymore." 
According to Donate Life New Jersey, more than 100,000 people nationwide are waiting for transplants, and an average of 18 people each day die waiting. 
"We are so happy we did it," Malloosseril's mother, Aley John Malloosseril, said Sunday. "We saw how we could help other people to live, and there is no way to describe how happy \o/e are to see them all, their spirit. I want people to learn some­thing from this; Dennis' life was lost but I want some good to come of it." 
The woman Malloosseril tried to help also was killed, and her cousin was seriously wounded. Joseph Pallipurath has pleaded not guilty to murder and other charges and remains in jail. 
Chief Assistant Passaic County Prosecutor John Latoracca said the case will be presented to a grand jury in the next few months. 

Mustang sculpture draws wild reaction 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Rearing 32 feet high, the metallic blue mus­tang sculpture demands the attention of every traveler through Denver International Airport. 
But that wild look of "Mustang" is prompting some to wonder if the sculpture installed just a year ago should be moved somewhere less prominent. Alternate monikers suggested for the horse with the glowering eyes include "Bluecifer," "Satan's Steed" and "Blue Devil Horse." 
"What exactly was the deal with that horse?" said Rachel Hultin, a Denver real estate agent who's behind a Facebook site that derides the sculpture. 
About 28 million travelers last year passed by the rearing blue horse, located south of the main terminal. 
·"It's not the image you want in your head as you're about to board a plane," said Christie Carlson of the Denver suburb of Thornton. "My daughter asked me 'Is that the devil's horse?'" 
Stan Ryland, a business development manager from Huntington Beach, Calif., isn't bothered by the horse's look. 
"That's what horses in the wild look like," he said as he waited. to board a plane Saturday. "They survived the wilderness and the mean ones led the pack." 
The city of Denver commis­sioned the fiberglass sculpture from New Mexico artist Luis Jimenez in 1993, two years before the airport opened. His 1969 sculpture "Man on Fire" and 1990's "Vaquero" have been displayed at the Smithsonian American Art Museum. 

In 2006, Jimenez was killed when a section of the unfin­ished horse fell from a hoist at his Hondo, N.M., studio. Jimenez's sons, Adan and Orion, completed the sculpture, which was installed Feb. 11, 2008. 
"We worked very closely with the artist's family," said Erin Trapp, director of the Denver Office of Cultural Affairs. "I don't think that anybody ever considered not finishing." 
Jimenez's widow, Susan Jimenez, said the original pro­posal was for a sculpture of a buffalo stampede. That was rejected because buffalo were hunted to near extinction in the West. 
Jimenez then proposed the mustang -wild horses that symbolize the West and provid­ed long distance travel, like airplanes today. 
Trapp said any petition to move the sculpture wouldn't be considered until 2013, a city policy designed to give people a chance to get used to new pub­lic art. "People's relationships with art change over time. It's something you have to live with before you really appreci­ate it," Trapp said. 

L_______________________________________ ---·-· 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, February 9, 2009 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Aaron Steiner Chris Masoud What are you doing Becky Hogan Meaghan Veselik for Valentine's Day? 
Graphics Sam Werner Andrea Archer Scene "The way you see people is the way 
Going out with my significant other 

Viewpoint Analise Lipari you treat them, and the way you
Going out with friends 

treat them is what they become." 
Lianna Staying in Brauweiler 

Johann von Goethe
Crying myself to sleep 
writer 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWs EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EmTOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROUER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX . (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631"6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542. 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (57 4) 631-8839 
THE • 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately.and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer polici1!5 should be directed w Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

TI~<.': Ohscrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday dtrough Friday ex~ pi during ~ aam andvacarion p::riods.Asubw-iption to The Observer is:$100 fur one ac.Kkmic year; $55 for one semc:m;:r. 
The Qmerver is published ar: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaU Send addrt5S corrections oo: Norre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical post~ paid at Nott-e Dame P.O. 8ox779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Noltt" Dame, lN 46556..0779 

The Observer is a memba-ofrlu: Associated Press. All reproduction righ[S arc 
regrved. 
Emergencies abound at our fair uni­versity, and if a plummeting endow­ment, rising tuition costs, squirrel attacks, the erosion of intellectual life and the occasional sports embarrass­ment (to say noth­ing about the perennial furor over the Vagina Monologues) were not enough, you can add the disap­pearance of Notre Dame's "Catholic identity" to the list. Apparently, the Bernard Madoffs of the educational community have swindled us into an intellectual Ponzi scheme founded on faculty research, higher tuition costs and building booms. Now, we face a severe crisis of repu­tation -an academic liquidity crisis, if you will -as indicated by the huge drop in the proportion of faculty members who call themselves Catholic, less than two-thirds of what it was in the 1970s. As the reasoning goes, a Catholic professoriate is one that cleaves appropriately to Catholic tradition and the guiding principles of Notre Dame, and because we have let go of the former, we are losing the lat­ter. 
But have you noticed that the loud­est voices calling (at least, in this paper) for Notre Dame to reassert its Catholic identity in the undergraduate classroom tend to belong to people who spend the least amount of time in 




EDITORIAL CARTOON 

fHf SCRfNI\ 


,.A YEAR?!! 

it? I am not sure how teachers pro­
mote or stifle Catholic identity in the classroom, unless they roundly abuse their position. I doubt that it would 
matter much whether you have a Catholic as opposed to a Hindu teach­ing organic chemistry, a Catholic as opposed to an atheist dose-reading the Iliad or a Catholic as opposed to a 
Protestant solving a differential equa­
tion. 

The job of a professional academic (yes, graduate students count, too) is to impart knowledge, promote analyti­cal skills, all those other nice-sound­ing educational catchphrases -and nothing else. Students should be able to figure out their professor's or TA's intellectual interests, areas of expert­ise and maybe a favorite extracurric­ular activity or two based on their time together in the classroom. They should not, however, be able to figure out whether their teacher is or isn't Catholic. So unless faculty members go beyond the considerable bound­aries of academic freedom and begin promoting religious or ideological viewpoints instead of free inquiry, the classroom will never be a place where the university's Catholic identity is fashioned. It should not matter , whether the faculty is 1 or 100 or some in-between percentage Catholic. Saying otherwise is simply untrue, and arguing that the University should promote it is absurd. If Catholicism were a prerequisite for a job hire, it might not affect ho"Y class­es are taught all that much, but it would send a clear message that.in the eyes of Notre Dame, research and teaching skills are less important than one's religious orthodoxy. I probably don't have to spell out what that would do to the University's academic reputation. 
But campus culture is not made in the classroom. However much the quality of instruction, of students and of curricular range differs between universities, an English course at Notre Dame will still be recognizable to a student from Harvard or a stu­dent from Linfield College in McMinnville, Ore. Extracurricular activities, clubs, athletic competitions, administrative and marketing deci­sions and even the public debate that goes on in the pages of campus news­papers shape a campus' identity far more than what happens in discussion sections and lectures. And by that standard, Notre Dame's Catholic iden­tity is doing fine: Just take a look at the event flyers in O'Shag, the activi­ties sponsbred by the University's var­ious institutes, centers and offices and even the Faithpoint column that runs in this paper every other week. 
If that's not enough, I suppose those worried about Catholic identity might demand that one of the two TVs in the LaFortune main lounge be perma­nently set to the Sat 2000, the 24­hour Vatican TV network. But then the lack of ESPN might cause the sports fans to wonder if the University is losing its athletic identity ... 
Darryl Campbell is a second-year Ph.D. student in History. He can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, February 9, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ordain fem.ales 

To preface this letter, I'm going to say that I have never done this before and therefore am a Viewpoint virgin. However, I cannot hold my thoughts in any longer for fear of unleashing them upon random passersby. I can't have that on my conscience. 
In his Feb. 6 Letter to the Editor "Pope deserves a break," Kyle Tennant spewed enough incen­diary comments for me to write a kitschy tell-all memoir ala Mommie Dearest. Although I could write about the fact that the Church, as a community of believers, needs to be in touch with the needs of said community (i.e. third-world poverty, among a laundry list of other concerns), I'm going to instead focus solely on Mr. Tennant's observation about the dwindling number of priests. This is a concern. but it has an obvious solution: Allow the ordination of women priests. Shocker! I'm sure this concept just opened a can of worms on the Notre Dame community, but it seems fair­ly simple. By allowing the ordination of women priests, the populace that has the potential to be priests doubles. That's math. Also, the ordination of women priests allows for women to enter the hierarchy of the Catholic Church, thereby having an ability to offer their insight onto matters of faith. 
I have never once heard a valid reason why women cannot be priests. Ever. I sincerely doubt that having a penis allows men to perform baptisms, and having a uterus prevents the ability to perform the last rites. The argument against the ordination of women priests generally devolves into an argument about tradition. Tradition is important; however, I feel that blanketing an entire issue under this word is just an excuse to exclude a group of individuals from having authority. Lots of traditions prevalent in the past are no longer in practice, such as saying the mass in Latin. However, blatant discrimination upon the grounds of sex (which tends to be frowned upon in most circles) is still a practice of the Church. I may not be the most religious person on the planet, but I will concede that I would be more willing to be an active Church-goer if the church became truly Catholic by including all the people in its community. 
Patrick Bears junior off campus Feb.6 

A defense of the Pope 

To those students who have spent the last week criticizing the Holy Father: Stop it. You all should be ashamed of yourselves. Here you are, attending the premier Catholic university in the nation and you attack the head of the Catholic Church. Seriously? What makes you think that you, someone barely out of high school, has more knowledge and insight than the Pope does in matters of spirituality and the shepherding of the Church? For you to assume that your judgment surpass­es that of the Holy Father's on these issues is incredibly, ridiculously and offensively arrogant. If you haughty ones are unwilling to accept the leadership of Pope Benedict XVI, perhaps this isn't the university for you. 
But you're probably wondering, what authority does this guy have to say these things? Isn't he, after all, "barely out of high school" as well? Certainly. But I am a Knight of Columbus. The Knights are ever-committed to defending our priests, our bishops, and yes -you guessed it -our Pope. Any attack on the Holy See will always be met with a passionate, rigorous and emphatic defense of the Holy Father. So I'm not just speaking for myself-I am speaking for the Knights of Columbus Council No. 1477. There's a reason that our organization has been dubbed "the strong right arm of the Church"-when the battle rages, we're always there, unified, defending our Church and her leaders. 
If you are interested in joining our Catholic brotherhood, e-mail Jim Redden at jredden@nd.edu. Our only requirements are that you must be over 18, Catholic and male. We are always looking for new brother Knights to join us in the good fight. God bless you all; God bless Pope Benedict XVI. 
Lee Metzger grad student off campus Feb. 8 


Beyond poor 
sportsmanship 
Having just returned from the women's basketball game, I am so excited about the victory over DePaul. It was also great to join in the efforts of the Pink Zone by supporting many organizations fighting against Breast Cancer. However, I was extremely annoyed and angered by the students in the front row of the student sec­tion -including our "beloved" Leprechaun -as well as members of the male cheerleading squad. While I must admit that I was grateful that they shared their pizza with me, I was not impressed by their overall sportsmanship and representation of Our Lady's University. 
Upon arriving to the game, they sat in the front row, which was clearly already reserved -one would be able to notice this by the shirts and jackets covering the seats. These people appeared to think that the seats had been reserved for them. These seats were actually reserved for some students in the Science department who were recognized early in the game for all of the cancer research the department here at Notre Dame has done and con­tinues to do. When these students returned, they shyly asked for their shirts and jackets, but they did not get to enjoy the rest of the game from the seats which they came early to reserve. As the game continued, the boys in the front row and certain male cheerleaders exchanged reactions (not all related to the game) and used language such as "f"ck," "what the f"ck" and "motherf"cker." Now I know they were placed in front of the stu­dent section, but we were on the isle and there were families with children who could not have been older than eight years old. On the other side of the student section sat more families, including cancer survivors. Perhaps theses students could restrain them­selves from using profanity for the two and a half hours that they are "cheering" on our girls. 
The most disrespect came during halftime. Since this was the special Pink Zone game, there was a memorial ceremony honor­ing survivors and those who have lost their battle with cancer. WNDU's Tricia Sloma introduced a clip from the Secret Sisters Society which featured people who have since passed away after losing their battles with cancer. During this short film, the stu­dents in front of me started using their best movie announcer voice to say things like "In a world where ... " and "Coming this summer ... " These comments were being made during a slide show of mothers, sisters, daughters and friends who had lost their lives to cancer. How could they be more disrespectful? As a child of a cancer survivor, I found their comments particularly harsh. Impolite and disrespectful do not seem just words to describe this behavior. Some of these people represent our University on a reg­ular basis at sporting events and at other events on campus, but they seem to have little regard for those around them. This goes beyond poor sportsmanship to being disrespectful to those stu­dents and community members who came to support the Fighting Irish. Today I was proud to support the Fighting Irish as well as the Pink Zone and its efforts, but I was ashamed to be associated with members of a student body who have no regard for the many lives lost to cancer. 
Megan Trout grad student Fischer Graduate Residences Feb. 8 


Om.aha, m.usic Mecca. 

In my excitement for the upcoming Tilly and the Wall concert, I eagerly turned to The Observer Scene section to see how the musical love of my life would be described. On Feb. 5, I opened to the Weekend Events Calendar to find that the person who compiled the best bets for the week­end mistakenly chose what I am sure is an extremely educational and interesting movie at Browning Cinema over Tilly and the Wall for the Saturday's best pick. For this transgression, I was willing to forgive the Scene staff of The Observer. 
Until I read Patrick Griffin's Feb. 6 article about Tilly ("Tilly and the Wall, this week at Legends"). I actually had to read the phrase "the small­scale music scene of Omaha, Neb." twice-three times-before assuring myself that it was not a misprint. Saddle Creek. Cursive. Bright Eyes. The Faint. The Good Life. Son, Ambulance. Tilly. Omaha's music scene is any­thing but "small-scale." Rilo Kiley lyrics reference going to Omaha to "work and exploit the booming music scene" as early as 2002. Just two years ago, The L.A. Times published an article entitled "If It's Hip, It's Gotta Be Omaha." Rolling Stone magazine hailed Omaha's music scene as the biggest thing since Seattle's Grunge movement. Compared to the tradi­tional music Meccas, full of transplants hoping to make it big, Omaha's music scene is organic, coming from the city itself. After I got past the misleading first sentence, Griffin did an adequate at describing the band's journey, despite focusing too much on tap dancing-as-percussion and not enough on the sense of wildness and freedom that inspires the band's music and lyrics and is the real key to their growing success. 
Amanda Johnson sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall Feb. 8 

It's not about the m.om. 
First, I came across the AP article in front of The Observer, and then I read the Black Dog comic at the end about the crazy octuplets' mom. Yes, she is crazy if she wants to keep on having random sperm donor children. That isn't what I am contesting. Rather, people keep talking about the crazy mom and forget about the eight infants and six other children. Companies and corporations don't want to send the mom things she obviously needs because of her not-so-socially correct way of having children. To quote the AP article, " ... people are ready to boycott any corporations that help the octuplets or their mother." 
My question is this: Is it the octuplets' fault, or really any of her children's fault, that their crazy mom wants to keep haviri.g IVF sperm donated babies? I don't think it is. It infuriates me that corporations and really average people who would normally laud and donate to a set of multiples this large are letting their opinions about the mom get in the way. The reali­ty is that any help you give is really helping the babies, not necessarily the mom. They still deserve anything and everything that any other baby born into this world deserves. They, unfortunately just have a crazy mom getting in the way. I myself have a brother who had not one, but two babies before he turned 21 with a crazy wack-job of a girl. It's not my nephews' fault that they have a crazy mom and I do my best to love them and give them everything I think they deserve. Do the clothes or toys or diapers or formula I buy inadver­tently help her? Yes because then that's one less thing that she has to buy, but I don't do it to help her. I do it to help my amazingly beautiful little nephews. The same thing applies here. 
Most people may not agree with this crazy mom's family planning strategy (I know I don't) but should that stop us from helping out the little octuplets? No, because in the end, it's not the crazy mom who is going to suffer (she'lllikely just keep on having babies), but rather it's the children and they really don't deserve that. 
Amanda Bell semor McGlinn Hall Feb.4 



THE OBSERVER 





CENE 
Monday, February 9, 2009 

Winslet Flexes Acting Muscles in 
"The Reader" 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Writer 
"The Reader", based on the novel of the same name by Bernhard Schlink, tells the story of a young boy in post­World Wadi Germany who embarks on a passionate affair with an older woman. "The Reader" is nominated for several Academy Awards; including Best Picture and Best Actress. Director Stephen Daldry had tremendous mate­rial to work with, both in the novel and in the screenplay by David Hare, and was successful in some areas whHri perhaps failing in others. 
In the film, young Michael (David Kross) becomes sick on his way home from school and is • helped home by an older woman, Hanna Schmitz (Kate Winslet). Mter a long recovery, Michael returns to the site of his illness to thank her With flowers. 
She, both for her beauty and for her poise, entrances him, and a torrid affair begins. 
She awakens Michael's awareness of his own body, and in return, he reads to her. She devours the great literature that he reads aloud, and it acts as a precondition to sex: he must read to her first. But one day, Hanna disap­pears without a word to Michael. It is not until many years. later that Michael sees Hanna again. 
This time, Michael is a law student sitting in on proceedings 'for a war crimes trial from World War II. Hanna is there, being tried as a concentration camp guard. But this history was not the only secret Hanna kept. During the course of the trial, Michael learns an even deeper secret of Hanna's, one that has dictated her entire life, and one that forced her into the harrowing situ" ation of this trial. 
"The Reader" is a beautiful film that is best when giving a glimpse into the intimate interactions between Hanna and Michael. Some have deemed it too overtly sexual, but that is precisely the point. This isn't a relationship about love, at least not at the beginning; it is only a fulfillment of the individual needs of the two characters. To shy away from the imdity and sexuality would also dishonor the source materi­
aL 
But the sex is never gratuitous; 
The Reader Directed by: Stephen Daldry 
rather, it is the manner by which the audience comes to understand the characters. 
Daldry also succeeds in his subtle hints at Hanna's secret. lie wants the audience to be aware, .but always left guessing. However, the next stage of Michael's life, the time of the trial, is perhaps where the film fails the most. The war crimes trial is admittedly exciting and intriguing. but the film itself seems too stable, relying only on the plot and the acting to drive it. 
But as the trial comes to an end, and the film begins to center on the older Michael (Ralph Fiennes), Daldry's grace and beauty of storytelling return. Tho final half hour of the film is emotional and poignant. It brings Michael and Hanna together again, in perhaps an unexpected way, and provides a sort of closure for both. 
Where ''The Reader" succeeds the most is in the acting. Relative newcom­er David Kross both revels in his own youth and exemplifies maturity far beyond his age in the film. His role is difficult, but he never shies away from it. Even though he was only 17 during filming, Kross also holds his own against the veteran Winslet and brings warmth to the film. 
Ralph Fiennes is excellent as well. His screen time is less and mostly reserved for the end of the film, and his perform­ance has been critically overlooked, but he serves as an anchor to an emotion­ally tumultuous story. · · 
Kate Winslet, though, is the real backbone of the film. She received her sixth Academy Award nomination for "The Reader," and is well deserving of it. Most critics anticipated that Winslet's Oscar nomination would come front ':Revolutionary Road" this year. But where she displays traditional act­ing chops in "Revolutionary Hoad," with emotionally charged arguments with her husband and a fight against nor­malcy in the suburbs, she is perfectly understated as Hanna Schmitz. She does not have long tirades and mono­logues. to display her abilities. She is alway;o strong and sure, never waver­ing in her character, and making no apologies for what she must do. She is deserving of the praise she has received, and truly carries the film on her shoulders. 
"The Reader" is brutally 
honest. It does not glaze over the controversial themes of the original novel, and never tries to preach a message. It also never asks for pity for 
Hanna. It simply wants one to
Starring : Kate Winslet, David Kross 
think -perhaps about understanding motives, or
and Ralph Fiennes 
~I 
about secrecy, or even about one's own life. "The Header" leaves that up to you. 
Contact Maija Gustin at 
mgustin@nd.edu 
(} :1 () t lt 
t 
"~'{)\-\' 
• < ' 
1 



J !(f*ll \ 
l< \ftg 

tif!ht 
' 

i1·1 t lt.t• ~".~a r, ~,..,.~ .• ·~ i'
l) l' ~ 
iO 
,. 
..
'.d 

t~ vt.•r ,.situll ft•rll•~ t it ­
' ·"' 

It t•tJ1l tltat li~t , .. ., tS 
<!. t 
-'t

}{J·~ \\. 
\\ t H h t «H l ~ ht ~ B ; fl }$ 
pretty fi.•ifi, \,. i • t ln ~. du g ! 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Monday, February 9, 2009 
page 13 
Don't 
Make
Me Over 
.JtJclgit7q BErcl tvlovie F-?eti7Elkes 


This upcoming weekend, Steve Martin's latest film, "The Pink Panther 2," will be out in theaters. 
YPp, you read that correctly. "The Pink Panther 2." In the strange, alternative 
universe known as  
I Iollywood. people  Analise Lipari  
actually make  
sequels of remakes of other films.  Scene Editor  
If you don't  

remember the first "Pink Panther" remake, I wouldn't worry too much. As much as I love Steve Martin, I love the purity of the original "Panther" series just as much, if not more. Martin's 2006 remake of the classic Peter Sellers films just didn't work-Sellers' Clouseau was a case study in wry, bumbling, physical comedy, but Martin's faux Fran<;ais accent mwer holds up. More than 40 years after the original film's cinematiorelease, the remade version eventually grossed around $80 million. 
And the remake machine lives on. 
It's an impulse that filmmakers and stu­dios seem to lind inexhaustible: The move to redo old material again and again, often to the point where the remake's con­nection to the original is almost unrecog­nizable. "The Pink Panther 2" is only the most recent example of the remake machine giving audiences another retread. If viewers laughed at Martin's Clouseau, it's to his credit as a veteran comedian. But too many unfunny, un-dra­matic and un-compelling remakes have graced our cinemas to let one semi-suc­cess make up for years of bad movie memories. 
There have been some high-profile movie remakes in recent years, not all of which gained their reputations for good reasons. 
Some remakes are, to be honest, just shockingly bad. Gus Van Sant's 1998 ver­sion of "Psycho" is but one painful exam­ple. A shot-by-shot repeat of a I Iitchcockian classic, Van Sant's film swapped out Janet Leigh and Anthony Perkins for Anne Heche and Vince Vaughn, and left audiences wondering where all of the suspense went. 
The 2007 Ben Stiller bomb "The Heartbreak Kid" was also a remake, tak­ing a classic Charles Grodin/ Cybill Shepherd black comedy and giving it the Farrelly brothers ("Then~·s Something 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 
About Mary") treatment. 
Few may remember 2002's "Rollerball," but that film's violent take on its extreme subject matter lacked the subtlety of the 197 5 original. If we can, let's not look back on Jude Law's 2004 remake of "Alfie." \Vhile I haven't seen the 1966 original starring Michael Caine, I'm almost certain it was more winning than Law's tiresome trek through the role. 
And while the original "The Wicker Man" isn't exactly straightforward film­making, it's hard to watch the recent Nicholas Cage remake without cringing. 
Then. there are those remakes of films you loved the first time around. Sometimes they're underwhelming, some­times they're overwhelming. and some­times you have to ask: \Vhy was this made? 
While "You've Got Mail" wins some poin~ for its ability to make e-mail into somewhat compelling ftlm fodder, the sweet, quirky source material, 1940's "The Shop Around the Corner," doesn't deserve to get lost in the remake shuiTie. 1995's "Sabrina" is a similar example. While the new version starred Julia Ormond, Greg Kinnear and even Harrison Ford-whose fllm ventures I will always support-the Billy Wilder-directed origi­nal is a perfectly cast comedic confection. 
Occasionally, the remake does its sub­ject one better. It's a rare retread indeed that succeeds in eclipsing its source by raising the material to a whole new level. Brain DePalma's 1983 film "Scarface," for example, took a lesser-known AI Capone flick from 1932 and turned it into one of the most iconic drug warfare-flicks ever produced. 
And while its source material, "Internal Affairs," is seen as an achievement in its oWr! right, it was Martin Scorsese's take on the story, "The Departed," that fmally won this erstwhile directorial bridesmaid his due at the Oscars. 
In the end, you never know how a remake will turn out. Good, bad, or ugly, only one thing is certain: no matter what audiences may do, the remake machine will keep on running. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 


Image courtesy of movieweb.com Malin Ackerman, left, and Ben Stiller star in the 2007 film "The Heartbreak Kid." Viewers may not know that Stiller's film is actually a remake. 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 9, 2009 
NBA 

Spurs defeat defending champion Celtics in final stretch 
Lakers end Cavaliers home winning streak with 101-91 victory, Lakers' Odom scores season-high 28 points 
for us. This is a big road trip
Associated Press 
for us.' 
BOSTON The San Duncan converted a three­Antonio Spurs rested up point play to give the Spurs a before playing the defending 90-87 lead before Ray Allen's champions, and it paid off. basket cut it to one point and 
'It's hard for the oldest Garnett hit a pair of jumpers team in the NBA to feel to give Boston a 93-90 lead fresh,' coach Gregg Popovich with 1:36 to play. But Bonner said Sunday after the Spurs hit a jumper from the foul scored 11 straight points in line and Garnett missed, then the final 45 seconds to turn a Mason hit his 3 to make it one-point deficit into a 105-95-93. 99 victory over the Boston The Celtics were inbound­Celtics. · ing the ball when Ginobili 
'It was a beautiful win for stole the pass and drew a us, against the NBA champi­clear-path foul, giving him ons and on the road makes it two shots and the Spurs the even sweeter.' ball. San Antonio extended Roger Mason pulled up and its lead to 101-93 before leaned into a 3-pointer with Eddie House and Garnett hit 
20.4 seconds left to give San 3-pointers to help cut the Antonio the lead, then hit a deficit to three points. pair of free throws after The Spurs scored the last Manu Ginobili hit four as the five points of the first half to Spurs pulled away from the open a 60-52 lead, but the Celtics. Tim Duncan scored Celtics opened the second 2 3 points with 13 rebounds with 12 straight points to and Matt Bonner had 23 retake the lead. points -the second-most in his career -including 3-of-6 Lakers 101, Cavaliers 91 from 3-point range. CLEVELAND Kobe 
The Spurs won for the Bryant was sick. The ninth time in 11 games. Cleveland Cavaliers just Ginobili scored 19 points looked it. 
off the bench, playing more With Bryant suffering from than 31 minutes after sitting the flu, Lamar Odom scored a out Tuesday's game against season-high 28 points -15 Denver with a bruised hip. in the third quarter -and Duncan, who had not missed Paul Gasol scored 18 as the 
a game since streak-bust­2007, also sat ing Los out the Nuggets Angeles game, as did Lakers domi­Michael Finley "We have our work cut nated the sec­and Tony Parker ond half and
out for us. ,
while the Spurs h a n d e d try to pace Cleveland its Paul Pierce first home
themselves over an eight-game, Boston Celtics loss this sea­three-week road son, on 
trip. Sunday to 
'If I would complete a 6­have played in 0 road trip. Denver, I wouldn't have been Bryant was not himself. this fresh for sure,' Ginobili The superstar vomited before said. 'It was very important the game, shivered with for us to get rest a couple of chills throughout and needed 
days.' intravenous fluids at half­Kevin Garnett scored 26 time. But Odom picked up the points with 12 rebounds, offensive slack, helped con­
Paul Pierce had 19 and eight tain LeBron James on and Rajon Rondo had 16 defense, and was the biggest 
assists for Boston. It was the factor in the Lakers outscor­second loss in three games ing the Cavaliers 50-30 after for the Celtics, who lost to halftime. the Los Angeles Lakers on 'That was one of the best 
Thursday in an NBA finals games he's played for us,' rematch to snap a 12-game Lakers coach Phil Jackson win streak. said of the enigmatic Odom. Boston embarks on a six­'He's had some spectacular game road trip, interrupted games, but that was a terrific by the All-Star break, before game. It was the total pack­returning home at the end of age of his game. He broke the month. people down with his speed 
'We've got a tough task in and quickness to the basket front of us, going on the road and got some easy shots.' for the next couple of weeks, It's been a tough few days 
and we've got to make up for Cleveland. First, guard some ground,' Pierce said. Mo Williams was bypassed 'We have our work cut out for the second time as an All-


Star. Then, James had his formance against the Knicks, apparent historic triple-dou­the Lakers have gone 4-0 ble in New York downgraded without Bynum. They didn't by an NBA review, and now, commit a turnover in the the Cavaliers have had their final 19:28 against the Cavs. invincibility at home stripped 'We're playing for perfec­by the road-weary Lakers. tion,' Odom said, 'and in 
'You have to give the order to do that, it takes a lot Lakers credit,' said James, of energy, focus and commit­who scored 16 but missed 15 ment to winning and doing of his 20 field-goal tries. 'I whatever it takes. We got missed a lot of easy looks production from everyone.' that I usually make.' Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored 
The Cavaliers came in 23-0 22 to lead Cleveland, which at Quicken Loans Arena, but shot just 28 percent (11-of­were stopped by the Lakers, 39) in the second half and who are gaining a reputation didn't play its customary for stopping streaks. shutdown defense. Williams, 
They ended Boston's 19-whose All-Star snub had game winning infuriated streak on the Cavs, Christmas Day scored 19 and halted a 12-and James game run by the "I never play the game finished Celtics earlier for stats. It's all about with 12 this week. This assists and
winning.
was Cleveland's e i g h t first loss at home rebounds. since Game 5 Lamar Odom Odom, who against Los Angeles Lakers added a sea­
Washington in son-best 17 the first round of rebounds, last season's was unstop­playoffs. pable in the 
'I didn't want it to happen,' third, when the Lakers James said. 'But I'm glad it's outscored the Cavaliers 31­over.' 16 and turned a 10-point 
The Lakers weren't intimi­deficit into a 82-77 lead dated in one of the NBA's entering the fourth. rowdiest arena and went 'I never play the game for undefeated on a road trip stats,' Odom said. 'It's all that also included stops in about winning.' Minnesota, Memphis, New Guarded by Wally York, Toronto and Boston. Szczerbiak and rookie J .J. Los Angeles' trip started Hickson, Odom scored 13 of rocky with center Andruw Los Angeles' last 16 points to Bynum injuring his knee close the quarter, capping his against the Grizzlies, but it one-man scorefest with a couldn't have ended any bet­two-handed dunk off a miss ter. in the final second as the 
Beginning with Bryant's Lakers became just the record-setting 61-point per-fourth team this season to 
lead Cleveland at home after three. 
But unlike the three other teams, the Lakers finished the job. 
Los Angeles pushed its lead to 10 in the fourth before the Cavaliers closed to 93-89 on two free throws by Ilgauskas with 3:06 left. But Bryant hit a high-arching fadeaway, and Gasol dropped one of two free throws to make it 96-89 when the jumbo scoreboard above midcourt went dark, a symbolic moment for Clevelancj's players and fans. 
James was stripped on the Cavs' next possession, and Gasol made two more free throws and scored on a put­back as the Lakers put an exclamation point on one of their biggest wins this sea­son. 
Cleveland's crowd was at a playoff pitch from the outset for one of the most anticipat­ed games of the. season, a matchup of the league's top stars, both leading MVP can­didates, and two of the NBA's best teams. 
But the game never materi­

alized  into  a  Bryant  vs.  
James affair  as  Odom stole  
the spotlight.  
Bryant got  more  medical  

treatment after the game and was not available for inter­views. 
James was careful not to complain about losing his triple-double in New York, but he was clearly miffed by the league's decision. 
'Urn. Should I say some­thing?' he wondered before opting to keep his opinion a secret. 'We won the basket­ball game and that's all that matters.' 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Student rentals 2009/2010. 1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS If you or someone you care about Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. across from Notre Dame Stadium. has been sexually assaulted, visit NOTICE 7653. $1300-$2000/month. The Foundry features private baths PERSONAL Support Services for Victims of 
---------------5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. for every bedroom. washer/dryer, Rape & Assault at: New pop Christian music by Will of Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. fitness center, theater room, tanning not go it alone. We have many http://osa.nd.edu/health-Titus available at 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Contact Bruce Gordon salon, game room. Preleasing for resources in place to assist you. If safety/assault/ www.willoftitus.com or itunes Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-876-3537. August. Call 574-232-1400 or lease you or someone you love needs --------------­
574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous----------------online www. foundryliving.com confidential support or assistance, Good luck on your biology, Tara! es.com NOW LEASING. ---------------please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 ---------------FoR RENT ---------------LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. 3,4 613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2-or Ann Firth at 1-2685. Miley or Taylor? HOUSES FOR RENT 2009-10. & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. bdrm houses. $350/person. Why pay for 12 months? 2-4 BEDROOMS, FREE INTERNET NEWLY Call574-876-6333. For more information, visit NOs Sam: Both, at the same time. CLOSE TO CAMPUS, REMODELED. ---------------Assistance for Pregnant Now offering 1 0-month leases. STAINLESS STEEL APPLIANCES. andersonNDrentals.com Students//Office of Student Affairs Meaghan: Taylor. CALL 574-234-2436 OR website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safe­Bluegoldrentals.com CALL BILL: 574-532-1896. WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM FREE COMCAST! ty/assistance-for-pregnant-students. Katie: Miley 




OUND·THE NATION 
Monday, February 9, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's wrRE SERVICEs page 15 
NCAA Men's Baseball USA Today Preseason Poll 
team points 

1 LSU (14) 738 2 North Carolina (12} 737 a Rice (1) 673 4 Georgia 600 5 Texas A&M (2) 590 6 Stanford (1) 57& 7 Arizona Stale 533 8 CS Fullerton 507 9 Florida Stale 500 9 Texas 500 11 Ole Miss 431 12 Georgia Tech 327 13 Oklahoma State 321 14 Miami (Fl) 320 15 San Diego 304 16 Lousvllle 292 17 Baylor 2&9 18 UC Irvine 262 19 Fresno Slate (1) 247 20 Missouri 224 21 Pepperdine 156 22 UCLA 140. 23 Florida. 112 24 Costal Carolina .102 25 Clemso{l 80 

NCAA Women's BasketbaiLAP 
Rankings  
team  points  reoord  
1  Connecticut  1125  21·0  
2  Oklahoma  1079  18~2.  
3  Calilornla  979  18-2  
4  Duke  917  17·2  
5  Louisville  873  2D-!  
6  Auburn  872  21-l  
.7  Stanford  852  1744  
8  B~ylor  792  17~  
9  North Carolina  792  1f,.,3  
10  TexasA&M  790  11~a  
11  Florida  660  20-2  
12  Tennessee  594  16;4  
13  Maryland  584  ..1&4 ..  
14  Ohio St.  514  18-3  
15  Florida St.  498  1844  
16  Texas  444  15-5  
17  Virginia  435  18·4  
18  Kansas St.  334  18..,2  
19  Vanderbilt  260  17~5  
20  Iowa St.  247  164  
21  NOTRE DAME  241  16·4  
22  PIHsburgh  215  16-4  
23  Xavier  135  19·4  
24  DePaul  99  17-5  
25  So ulh Dakota St.  94  20·2  

MIAA Women's Basketball Rankings 
team record 

1 Hope 18·1 2 Saint Mary's 13-8 3 Trine 11-10 4 Calvin 12-8 5 Adrian 13·7 6 Alma 7-13 7 Albion 10·10 8 Olivet 7·14 9 Kalamazoo 0·19 

around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
West Virginia at No. 6 Pittsburgh 7 p.m., ESPN 


NCAA Women's Basketball 
No. 4 Duke at No. 8 North Carolina 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press  the players' union issued state­ third baseman is the highest­ an already bumpy offseason for  
ments Saturday, refusing to  paid player in baseball and  Rodriguez, marked by further  
NEW YORK -As Barry  confirm or deny the report, cit­ regarded by many as the most  talk of his dalliance with  
Bonds prepares to defend his  ing player confidentiality.  likely to break Bonds' record of  Madonna and clubhouse gossip  
name, the slugger who may  An e-mail from The  762.  stemming from Joe Torre's  
eventually surpass him as the  Associated Press to Rodriguez's  With this latest report,  book in which some team­ 
all-time home run leader has  agent, Scott Boras, was not  Rodriguez joined a growing  mates referred to him as "A­ 
become ensnared by the  immediately returned. The  Who's Who lineup of drug­ Fraud."  
Sffiroids Era: Alex Rodriguez.  Yankees and Rangers declined  tainted stars that includes  But a week before the  
Rodriguez tested positive for  comment  Bonds, Roger Oemens, Mark  Yankees open spring training,  
two anabolic steroids during  The SI revelations come at a  McGwire, Rafael Palmeiro and  Rodriguez ­certain to be  
his MVP season with Texas in  time when baseball's focus on  Jose Canseco.  dubbed "A-Roid" in the New  
2003, Sports Dlustrated report­ drugs has concerned Bonds  In his 2008 book,  York tabloids ­faced more  
ed on its Web site Saturday.  and the legal maneuvering  "Vmdicated: Big Names, Big_  serious allegations after four  
The New York Yankees star  leading to the start of his trial  liars, and The Battle to Save  sources told SI about his drug  
has long denied using perform­ March 2. The government is  Baseball," Canseco claimed he  tests.  
ance-enhancing drugs. He  trying to prove Bonds lied  introduced Rodriguez to a  Rodriguez's name appears  
declined to illscuss the tests  when he told a grand jury he  steroids dealer. Canseco, who  on a list of 104 players who  
when approached by SI on  never knowingly took perform­ has admitted using steroids,  tested positive for perform­ 
Thursday at a gym in Miami.  ance-enhancing drugs.  subsequently said he had no  ance-enhancing drugs in a  
"You'll have to talk to the  A three-time AL MVP,  knowledge of any drug use by  2003 baseball survey, SI said.  
union," he said.  Rodriguez has hit 553 career  Rodriguez.  He reportedly tested pooitive for  
Major League Baseball and  homers. At age 33, the All-Star  The drug allegations follow  Primobolan and testosterone.  
IN BRIEF  

Watney rallies from 5 Truex, Martin take top Howard, Phillies agree on 
behind to win Buick two Daytona 500 spots 3-year, $54 million deal 
SAN DIEGO -Nick Watney DAYTONA BEACH -Martin Truex PHILADELPHIA -Ryan Howard appeared to be along for the ride Jr. suffered through an uncertain just wanted to concentrate on Sunday until making two birdies winter, unsure if his revamped race baseball this spring. No squabbles 
over the final three holes to take advantage of a late collapse by John Rollins and win the Buick Invitational. 
Watney knocked in a 40-foot birdie putt from the fringe on the par-3 16th, then completed his five-shot rally with a two­putt birdie on the 18th hole. He closed with a 4-under 68 for his second career victory. 
"I knew it wasn't over," Watney said. 
Rollins let this one get away. 
He had a three-shot lead with five holes to play until making a bogey with a poor chip on the 14th, another bogey from a plugged lie in the bunker on the 16th, and failing to hit the green on the par-S 18th, leading to a par. He shot a 74. 

team could take him to the top. 
Mark Martin also endur~d a long offseason, anxious to join NASCAR's premier program. 
Their waits proved worth it Sunday when the former teammates took the top two starting spots for the season-opening Daytona 500. 
Truex, now driving for the organi­zation born from the merger between sponsor-strapped Dale Earnhardt Inc. and Chip Ganassi Racing, earned the pole for the Feb. 15 showcase event. With a lap of 
188.001 mph in a Chevrolet, he showed Earnhardt Ganassi Racing will go on -perhaps stronger than the individual teams ever were. 
"It was a tough winter for most of us in the community," said Ganassi, the front man for the new race team. 
over his contract. No daily ques­tions about his future. The big slugger got his wish ­and a hefty raise, too. 
Howard and the Philadelphia Phillies agreed to a $54 million, three-year contract on Sunday, avoiding a potentially contentious arbitration hearing. 
The 2006 NL MVP will earn $15 million this season, $19 million next year and $20 million in 2011. 
"The things that have happened prior with Ryan, it was really nothing adversarial, although I know with some people it was depicted that way," Phillies gener­al manager Ruben Amaro Jr. said. "We just agreed to disagree. It didn't make us love Ryan any less, and it didn't make Ryan love us any less." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 9, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Illinois beats Purdue 66-48,Washington over Stanford 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN -Bruce Weber thinks the Top 25 hasn't been kind to Illinois. 
The Illini coach said that since the team edged into the rankings in mid-January, the first time in more than two seasons, it's forgotten to play the tough, smart defense that got it there. 
'It was kind of human nature where we started thinking we were better than we are and we reinvented ourselves,' Weber said. 'We just had to get back to what we did and who we were by guarding and play­ing our butts off.' 
The memory lapse ended Sunday when the 23rd-ranked Illini knocked off No. 12 Purdue, 66-48.. 
The Illini (19-5, 7-4 Big Ten) held the Boilermakers, who are playing without star for­ward Robbie Hummel, to sea­son lows in scoring, shooting percentage (32.2 percent) and 3-point shooting (2-of-15). 
'The key for us was our defense and our effort,' Weber said. 'We were able to get stops and get out in transition and get the crowd into it, and eventually broke their spirit.' 
Sophomore forward Mike Davis, who had 14 points and a career-high 16 rebounds, did much of the damage to Purdue (17 -6, 6-4). 
Davis has been as inconsis­tent as the rest of the team the past few weeks. Weber said that Davis had been fighting tonsillitis, as well as a related case of Bell's palsy, a tempo­rary facial paralysis. 
While that illness didn't directly affect Davis' play, Weber said, 'Mentally it bugged him. I think it took a toll.' 
Davis benefited Sunday from the absence of Hummel, who has been out with a hairline fracture in his back. Hummel stretch and points from the Illini that revved their crowd up to earsplitting volumes. 
Illinois opened the second half with a 9-4 run to go ahead 41-32, but Purdue rumbled right back with five straight points, including a crowd­calming dunk by Johnson, to pull to within 41-37. 
Purdue went cold again mid­way through the second half, hitting just one field goal over a five-minute span. Illinois used that stretch to open a 12­point gap at 53-41 with just under eight minutes to play. 
With their cold shooting, the Boilermakers were forced to look inside for openings that just weren't there. Beyond Johnson, Purdue's biggest inside threat, 6-foot-9 Namanja Calasan was just 1­of·-7 on the afternoon. 
Davis, on the other hand, thrived in the paint and out­side. 
The 6-9 Illinois sophomore had nine rebounds by half­time, and scored a half dozen of his points on soft jump shots. 
'Mike Davis was the differ­ence,' Painter said. 'He's got a good nose for the basketball. He's long and athletic.' 
Davis acknowledged that he'd been slowed by his ill­ness, but said he's feeling bet­ter now than he has in a cou­ple of weeks. 
'I'm getting my wind back,' he said. 'I'm getting better and been hitting the weight room a little more and getting stronger and healthier.' 
Demetri McCamey added 13 points for Illinois, which never trailed. 
Illinois' late run, the one that finished the Boilermakers, was .keyed by six points from Davis and seven from Chester 
Frazier.  
Frazier,  an  often-injured  
g  u  a  r  d  
known  for  
his defense  

was cleared to play in the Boilermakers' loss  "His future's more important than the  and play, ished  tough fin-the  
to the Buckeyes on Tuesday, but still hasn't made it off the bench. Purdue coach  Illinois game. " Matt Painter Purdue Coach  game with 10 points. Two of them, from under tne  
Matt Painter said  basket  and  
Hummel, who has­n't practiced in  punctuated with a fist  
weeks, still isn't ready.  pump and  a  roar  from the  

'It just doesn't make sense to crowd, effectively finished the 
me (to play him),' Painter said. Boilermakers. The lllini went 'His future's more important ahead 55-41 with 7:13 to play, than the Illinois game.' and Purdue never again 
Painter said the threatened. Boilermakers had their Frazier's points were nice, chances, but found only two but his defense mattered most. 
things that worked offensively Weber credited him for hold­-JaJuan Johnson's shooting ing E'Twaun Moore, who and Lewis Jackson's drives entered the game leading the through the paint. Boilermakers with 14 points a 
Johnson scored 17 points to game, to six. lead Purdue, while Jackson 'We just tried to make them added 12. make tough shots,' Frazier 
'We were impatient,' Painter said. 'Stay in front of their said. 'I liked our matchup with players and keep them out of Johnson, but we have to do a the paint.' better job of getting the ball inside to him.' Washington 75, Stanford 68 
The Illini pulled away late Isaiah Thomas knew about with a 23-6 run, a stretch of "The Streak" only because he just over 10 minutes in which -read newspaper reports. Purdue hit just one field goal. Washington coach Lorenzo 
But the Boilermakers, in Romar didn't bother bringing spite of their offensive strug-it up much. gles, were never more than a In fact, Romar joked about couple of baskets and a defen-it. sive stop away from the Illini The No. 22 Huskies had lost most of the afternoon. 15 straight at Stanford before 
Every brief Purdue run, beating the Cardinal 75-68 on though, was followed by _a cold Sunday night, the streak com­

ing to a halt after Quincy 
Pondexter scored 20 points, 
including a pair of key free 
throws down the stretch. 
Thomas added 17 points. 

'We weren't worried about it. Coach wasn't worried about it,' Thomas said. 'He said the streak was nothing. He made a -little joke about i(, and that was it. It's good that it came to 
an end and we got a win.' 

Jon Brockman had 13 points 
and 12 rebounds for the 
Huskies (17-6, 8-3 Pac-10), 
who overcame a 10-point 
deficit to take a 35-34 halftime 
lead. Venoy Overton also had 
11 points. 

'I have to admit this one did 
look like some of the other 
games we've had here, but I 
thought our guards did a good 
job of controlling the game 
down the stretch,' Romar said. 
'Venoy was the MVP. He 
brought us a lot of energy.' 

Landry Fields scored a 
career-high 22 points and had 
10 rebounds to lead the 
Cardinal (14-7, 4-7), who've 
lost four of their last five. 
Anthony Goods added 12 
points and Jeremy Green had 
11. 

'It's frustrating,' Goods said. 
'We were getting decent shots 
but we were just missing 
them. It's no fun losing.' 

Stanford closed within 66-63 
on Fields' jumper with 2:18 
left. Thomas followed with a 
leaner and the Cardinal never 
got any closer. 

'Isiah drove to the basket 
and made an incredible shot,' 
Romar said. 'That was a big, 
big shot because it kind of 
broke the drought a little bit. 
Our guys got energized by that 
one. It wasn't the most spec­
tacular shot he's made, but at 
that point in the game, it was 
probably the biggest shot he's 
made.' 

Thomas has reached double 
figures in 17 straight games. 

Washington maintained its 
lead throughout the second 
half, though Stanford made a 
run to close within 64-60 on a 
breakaway dunk by Josh 
Owens with 4:01 left. 
Pondexter followed with a pair 
of free throws -he was nine 
of 10 from the foul line -to 
quiet the crowd. 

'We had 11 turnovers in the 
first half and we average 11 

turnovers a game,' Fields 
said. 'We have to be stronger. 
They came in and imposed 
their will on us.' 

Fields was 10-of-15 from the 
field and recorded his third 
double-double. The junior also 
had two blocks. 

Brockman recorded his 11th 
double-double and the 52nd of 
his career, the most among 
active players. His putback in 
the final five seconds of their 
last meeting gave the Huskies 
one-point road losses the 
Cardinal have suffered in con­
ference play. 

The Huskies scored 11 unan­
swered points in a run that 
spanned both halves and gave 
them a 10-point lead five min­
utes into the second half. 

A 12-0 run gave Stanford a 
25-15 advantage with 8:48 
remaining in the first half. 

The Cardinal made two of 
their final nine shots and com­
mitted six turnovers the 
remainder of the half, allowing 
Washington to go into the lock­
er room with a slight edge. 



-------------~---­
Monday, February 9, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
NFC takes down AFC 30-21 in 2009 Pro Bowl 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU -With a huge red lei around his neck and a wide grin that could have stretched across Oahu, Larry Fitzgerald held up the gleam­
ing,  silver  MVP  trophy.  It  
sparkled in the sunshine  as  
much as his game.  

The only problem: It wasn't the Lombardi Trophy. 
Fitzgerald caught five passes for 81 yards and two touch­downs, 44-year-old John Carney kicked two fourth­quarter field goals, and the NFC rallied to a 30-21 victory over the AFC. The Arizona Cardinals' All-Pro receiver, coming off a record-breaking postseason and a spectacular Super Bowl in a loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers, earned MVP honors. 
But he said the victory over the AFC, which featured three members of the Steelers' defense, didn't ease the pain from the Super Bowl. 
'No, not one bit,' he said. Fitzgerald also took home keys to a new Cadillac. 
Tm just ghi.d we won, that's the most important thing,' he said. 
On a sweltering day, with 60 percent humidity, Kurt Warner started for the NFC and played just one series before making way for Brees. Warn'er was just 1-of-2 for 8 yards. 
'I would've liked to have won last week and not this week, if I could switch th·em out,' he said. 
Fitzgerald caught a 46-yard scoring pass from Drew Brees before the half and a 2-yard TD pass from Eli Manning for the go-ahead score with 4:07 to play. 
The NFC defense took care of the rest. Manning, making his Pro Bowl debut, was 8-of-14 for 
111 yards. While big brother Peyton had better stats, 12-of­17 for 151 yards and a TD, Eli got the win. 
'He didn't play the whole second half, so it's not about beating my brother, it's just about having fun,' Eli Manning said. 
The Manning brothers were the first quarterback brothers in Pro Bowl history. And Carney, who was a perfect 3­for-3, became the oldest player in the game's history. He boot­ed a 48-yarder with 2:06 remaining to make it 27-21 and sealed the win with a 26­yarder with 32 seconds to go. 
Sunday's all-star game ended a successful 30-year run at Aloha Stadium, with a sellout every year. The Pro Bowl will be played in Miami next year, a week before the Super Bowl. The NFL, which has been looking to increase the profile of the game, hopes to bring the game back to Hawaii. 
The players, who spent most of the week by the beach and sipping umbrella-adorned mai tais, were pretty unanimous in wanting the game to return. 
For Warner, the question now is whether this was his · final game in the NFL or, as a free agent, will he opt to con­tinue playing at age 38? 
'I don't know right now,' Warner said. 'Again, when I have a feeling one way or the other, I'll let everyone else know. I don't have a time frame. This is the first time right now that I am done hav­ing to think about football for a while, and I'm going to enjoy that part of it, enjoy my wife, enjoy my kids and then we'll make a decision as soon as we can.' 
The AFC was looking to hula dance into halftime with a comfortable 14-3 cushion after Kerry Collins connected with Owen Daniels on a 9-yard scoring pass with 28 seconds left in 


the half. However, that was· more than enough the time for the NFC, with all its weapons. 
The NFC took over at its 45 with 19 seconds left after a nice kickoff return by Clifton Smith. The~ ran two plays before Larry Fitzgerald hauled in Brees' 46-yard bomb with fellow All-Pro Cortland Finnegan on his back as time expired to pull the NFC to 14­10. 
It made for two huge end-of­the-half plays in consecutive weeks for Fitzgerald. But this time, rather than trying -and failing-to chase down James Harrison on his 100-yard interception returned for a TD, Fitzgerald was the one cele­brating. 

Fitzgerald also beat Finnegan on his second score. 
'These guys are such elite players, it doesn't take much time to get in the groove with these players,' Fitzgerald said. 'These guys were great.' 
The usual high-scoring affair surprisingly also featured plenty of defense. Despite rules such as no blitzing line­backers and safeties, the quar­terbacks were feeling the heat, at times buried by the defen­sive line. None of the passes had any room for error on throws against the speedy defensive backs. · 
The AFC had a chance to take the lead late, but Julius Peppers got in the way. Down by six, the AFC started its drive on its 20 with 4:03 remaining and got to midfield. Peppers then swatted a pass by Jay Cutler with his left hand and came up with the interception that led to Carney's 48-yard field goal. 
There were three straight drives ending with a turnover in a span of about 2 minutes in the third quarter alone, including two by Collins. 
NHL 
•

Stars end Predators winning streak with a 4-1 -win 
Associated Press 'We weren't at our best but we unit produced the game's first Richards blasted a 40-footer Miettinen and Eric Belanger 
found a way to get through it. goal when Sutherby scored for past a screened' Ellis at 1:42 of scored in regulation for the 
DALLAS -The Dallas Stars­It's nice to have the special the third time in his last five the third period to make it 3-1. Wild, who started the day tied 
and Nashville Predators were teams going. It was a tough games, converting Richards' with Edmonton for the last 
dragging, with both playing week. Tonight we battled centering pass on a 2-on-1 Wild 3, Oilers 2 playoff spot in the West. · their fourth game in six nights. through some sluggish play.' break at 5:07. ST. PAUL -With his best 'The teams are so equal, The Stars had a little more left. Turco played in his 23rd con­Parrish made it 2-0 at 15:32 of player about to take his turn in especially in our conference,' Brian Sutherby scored a secutive game, tying Cesare the first period, sweeping a the shootout and the game on Lemaire said. 'We're all there. 
short-handed goal, Brad Maniago's franchise record set loose puck into an open net. the line, Minnesota Wild coach So when we play each other, 
Richards had a power-play goal in the 1968-69 season when the Nashville goalie Dan Ellis Jacques Lemaire was asked it's going to be intense, close 
and an assist, and the Stars team was based in Minnesota. appeared to have control after how sure he was that Mikko games.' 
ended the Predators' four-game Turco is 8-2 in his last 10 with a stopping a shot by James Neal, Koivu would come through. Roloson made 37 saves in 
winning streak with a 4-1 victo­1.80 goals-against average. but the puck skittered through 'I wasn't sure at all,' Lemaire regulation for the Oilers, 
ry Sunday night. Turco said fatigue hasn't been Ellis' pads and Parrish tapped it said with a smile. 'I was look­including one on a breakaway 
They're not all masterpieces, a problem, adding that his in. ing for the next guy.' from Belanger with 51 seconds 
but we'll take the win and the teammates are helping out by 'We know we have to get a At that point, Lemaire left in overtime, to rebound 
two points,' Stars coach Dave playing far better defense than better start than we did tonight,' thought the game might go on from a miserable performance 
Tippett said. 'You're physically they did in December when the Sullivan said. forever. That's just the way it against Detroit on Saturday. 
fatigued but you push through Stars tumbled to 15th and last Nashville held a 13-8 shots is in a game against two teams But Sam Gagner, Robert 
it.' in the Western Conference. edge in the second period, and that are so evenly matched. Nilsson, Ales Hemsky and Tom 
Marty Turco made 25 saves, 'I feel energetic and sharp,' Arnott scored off a 2-on-1 with Koivu's shootout goal lifted Gilbert all were stuffed in the 
and Mark Parrish added a goal Turco said. 'I need to be playing J.P. Dumont at 14:04.· the Wild to a testy victory over shootout before Koivu's game­
for the Stars, 11-1-1 in their last with confidence and poise, get­But Turco stopped the rest, the Edmonton Oilers on winner. 
13 at home. Steve Ott's empty­ting the opportunity to make frustrating the Predators, who Sunday. He skated in on Sheldon Souray and Gagner 
netter with 1:34 l(jjft clinched the and make saves.' had outscored their opponents Dwayne Roloson's right side scored for the Oilers, who 
win for the Stars, coming off a Former Star Jason Arnott 14-4 during their four straight and slipped the puck through were blitzed 8-3 in Detroit. 
10-2 victory over the New York scored for Nashville. The victories. the five-hole after teammates Roloson didn't make it to the 
Rangers on Friday night. Predators had won five of their 'We defmitely had a bunch of Antti Miettinen, Marek Zidlicky second period, allowing five 
The Stars are 9-2-2 in their previous seven games with chances in the second period, and Brent Burns all failed to goals on 16 shots -three in 
last 13 games, all starts by Dallas. but it was a case of running into score. the first 5:44-to the high-fly­
Turco. Dallas' special teams also Dallas' Mike Modano got a a hot goalie,' Predators defense­Niklas Backstrom made 28 ing Red Wings. 
have come up big during the double-minor for high-sticking man Shea Weber said. 'We shot saves in regulation and over­'We showed some good 
current streak, with the Stars 2:19 after the opening faceoff ourselves in the foot in the first time and stopped all four shots resolve,' Oilers left wing Ethan 
going 7-for-21 on the power when his stick caught the face of period, and it's tough to play he faced in the shootout to Moreau said. 'It comes down to 
play in February. Nashville's Steve Sullivan, draw­from behind, especially against help the Wild to their ninth a shootout. Pretty happy with 
'Marty was on tonight and ing blood. a good team lik-e this.' straight victory over the Oilers the way we responded to a bad 
that was huge,' Richards said. But the Stars' penalty-killing Dallas skated 5-on-3 when at Xcel Energy Center. loss, and we competed. 
Monday, February 9, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 18 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Oudin and Huber rally to keep_ U.S. win in Fed Cup 
Associated Press 
SURPRISE, Ariz. -A fiesty teenager and a transplanted South African led the way in a comeback victory for the United States over Argentina on Sunday in the first round of the Fed Cup. 
Melanie Oudin, a 17-year­old from Marietta, Ga., kept the United States alive by rallying to beat Betina Jozami 2-6, 6-1, 6-2 and tie the best-of-five competition at 2-2. 
Then Liezel Huber, born in South Africa but a U.S. citi­zen since July 2007, teamed with Julie Ditty to beat Jozami and Gisela Dulko 6­2, 6-3 to give the United States the victory 3-2. 
'We wanted it to come down to the doubles,' U.S. team captain Mary Joe Fernandez said. 'When Liezel's on the court I feel really confident every single time.' 
Huber and her usual part­ner Cara Black of Zimbabwe -are the No. 1 ranked doubles team in the world. After the match, Huber took the American flag and paraded it around the court. 
'Everybody got to play and everybody gave it their all,' Huber said. 'It's a proud day in my history book.' 
Fernandez decided at the last minute to go with the left-handed Ditty rather than Oudin or Jill Craybas. Ditty joined the team only after Bethanie Matteck with­drew on Tuesday because of a nagging hip injury. 
'I just did what Liezel told me to do,' Ditty said with a 
laugh. 
The triumph at the Surprise Tennis and Hacquet Complex in chilly suburban Phoenix sends the ·united States into a semifinal matchup against the Czech Republic. Defending champi­on Russia will face Italy in the other semifinal. 
Argentina had taken a 2-1 lead in Sunday's' first match when Dulko defeated Craybas 6-1, 6-3 in a meet­ing of the top two players in the competition. 
That left everything on the shoulders of Oudin, who turned pro only last year and is ranked 151st in the world. 
'She really dug deep,' Fernandez said. 'For some­one so young playing in their first Fed Cup when it's all on the line there -she had to win to stay in it ­she really came through.' 
Oudin acknowledged that she felt the pressure of hav­ing the team's fate left up to her. 
'I think that going into the match I was thinking about it a little bit too much and that's why I don't think I started off too well,' she said. 'But after the first set, I mean I knew I could beat her and I knew I could play better than that.' 
Oudin's victory was inter­rupted by a 30-minute rain delay. She was up 4-0 in the second set when the delay came. 
When play resumed, the second set ended with a double-fault by the 20-year­old Jozami. 
Oudin lost the first two games of the last set, then 


dominated the next six. Through it all, she kept her and the bundled-up pro-USA crowd's attention by yelling to herself after virtually every shot. 
'One of my huge things is my mentality on the court,' Oudin said. 'I never think that any point is different, even if I'm down like 5-0, I'm going to be running down every single ball and fighting as hard as I can.' 
Two of the games ended when Jozami, ranked 134th in the world, couldn't finish off with her trademark drop shots at the net. 

'She was obviously better than me,' Jozami said before quickly returning to the court for the deciding dou­bles match. 'I don't know how to explain it. I couldn't come back like happened in the first set.' 
The United States has won 17 Fed Cup titles but none since 2000. Argentina has never won a Fed Cup but has been to the semifinals twice. 
Fernandez invited Serena 
and Meet Our 
Early Childhood Teachers ECDC-ND Openllouse Dates: Sunday, 2 L09 ... 1:30-.3:00 



and Venus Williams to par­ticipate but the sisters declined, citing scheduling difficulties. The semifinals will be played, probably on 
clay,  April  25-26  in  the  
Czech Republic.  
'I'm  hoping  Venus  and  

Serena will be available and they can play,' Fernandez said. 'You always want the very, very best and Serena and Venus are the very, very best. But you go with who can play and who's ready to go, and my team was ready to go.' 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
at Notn;~ Dame 

Monday, February 9, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Buzzer-beater gives Blazers vvin 

Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. -New York's Nate Robinson couldn't watch his former teammate at Washington, Brandon Roy, in the final seconds against the Trail Blazers. 
Robinson pretty much knew what was coming. Roy's fmger­roll layup at the buzzer gave Portland a 109-108 victory over the Knicks on Sunday. 
"At that point there is nothing you can do, just put the best defense you have on him," Robinson said. "Unfortunately, he made it." 
Travis Outlaw made a jumper with 31.9 seconds left to pull Portland within one at 108-107, and AI Harrington missed a layup at the other end for New York. The Trail Blazers called a timeout with 4.3 seconds left before Roy took an inbound pass from Rudy Fernandez and drove for the winning layup. 
"I got a little nervous when it started to roll to the left, because I've missed a lot of those this season," Roy said. 
Robinson, on New York's bench for the final play, turned his back to the basket for Roy's shot. The two were teammates with the Huskies from 2002-05. 
Knicks coach Mike D'Antoni saw it coming, too. 
"He's going to get it," D'Antoni said. "You play as hard as you can on him and he's going to do that." 
Roy, who was selected to the All-Star team as a reserve, fm­ished with 19 points and eight assists, while Outlaw led the Blazers with 23 points. Greg Oden had 17 points and 12 rebounds for his 15th double­double of the season, and added a career-high six blocked shots. 
David Lee led the Knicks with 29 points and 11 rebounds. After trailing by 13 points in the first half, the Knicks built a 17 -point lead in the second. 
New York Was helped by its 14 3-pointers, including five straight in the third quarter. Tim Thomas made five of seven 3­point attempts and finished with 17 points. Robinson had 19 points along with Harrington. 
The Trail Blazers, who had won five straight against the Knicks. were home after losing their last two on a three-game road trip. Their latest was a 102-93 loss at Oklahoma City on Friday. 
The Knicks had lost three straight at Madison Square Garden going into Sunday's matinee game at the Rose Garden. But the losses came against the Lakers, the Cavaliers and the Celtics and going into the slump, and had won five of their last six. 
The Trail Blazers let a 17­point, third-quarter lead dwindle away, and the Knicks went up 97-84 early in the fourth quarter after Robinson's 3-pointer. 
The Blazers climbed back to 105-101 on Roy's layup with 
2:15 left. After Harrington hit a 3-pointer for the Knicks, Oden and Outlaw each scored to nar­row it to 108-105 with 1:10 left -setting up the winning -sequence for Portland. 
Oden was confident the Blazers would come away with the win. 
"I didn't have any doubts. I was just trying to stay with my guy and give him a clear path," Oden said. 
The Blazers ·remain without starting point guard Steve Blake, who's still nursing a shoulder injury. Coach Nate McMillan said he would be evaluated for Wedrtesday's game against the Thunder. 


ACE UNDERGRADUATE INTERNSHIPS 
Get your application at http://ace.i-ntern.googlepages.corn/home 

ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Saxer sets record at Meyo Invitational 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field team competed against a number of dif­ferent schools this past weekend in the M-eyo Invitational, and five Irish athletes set NCAA 'provi­sional marks at the meet. 
Matt Shipper was the only one on Friday, with a personal best 5.22 meter pole vault. Junior Joanna Shultz, with a second place in the 400-meters, along with Kelly Langhans in the 800-meters, Lindsey Ferguson in the 3000-meters, and Jack Howard in the 800.-meters also set the mark. They JOin teammates An.na Weber and Mary Saxer as the NCAA provisional qualifiers for the Irish. 
Saxer  also  had  a  very  
successful weekend,  win­ 
ning  the  women's  pole  

vault and breaking her own Loftus Sports Center record with a vault of 
4.15 meters. 
In the Meyo Mile, five runners ran sub-four­minute miles. Paul Springer, with a 21st place finish, was the high­est Irish finisher in the· Ryan ~hay 3000-meter run. 
Friday's meet featured a number of unseeded races and events, some of which the Irish won. In the 
men's 500 meters, Billy Buzaid continued his suc­cessful senior season with a first-place time of 
1:02.82. Fellow senior Anna Weber also per­formed well, being the top collegiate finisher in the women's weight throw. Patrick Smyth finished off his day with a win in the 5000-meters, followed by 
Dan  Jackson  and  Ryan  
Jacobs in  ninth  and  10th,  
respectively.  

On Saturday, when the more competitive seeded races were ran, a number of Irish athletes put forth strong efforts. Notre Dame won the women's 4X400-meter relay with a time of 3:40.53. Sophomore Denes Veres placed second in the men's shot put, followed by sophomore John Belcher in seventh and freshman Andrew Hills in 1Oth. 
Finally, the Notre Dame men's 4X400-meter relay team brought the Invitational to a close with a time of 3:11.64, good enough for a fifth place finish. 
The Irish will head to Windsor, Ontario for the Windsor Team Challenge next weekend before trav­eling to New York City for the Big East Championships. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 9, 2009 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Notre Dame rolls to win over Olivet 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team wrapped up its dual meet season on Saturday with a 16-event sweep of Olivet in the team's 173-102 win over the Comets. The Irish com­pleted the regular season with four consecutive dual meet wins, three of which came during the Shamrock Invitational on Jan. 24. 
Irish coach Tim Welsh was pleased with his squad's per­formance in the meet and thinks Notre Dame is in a good position to succeed at the Big East Championships. 
"We appear to be on sched­ule at this point to achieve our best times at the confer­ence championship meet, and that's our goal," he said. "The things we saw today encouraged us"to believe that we're on the right track. We leave today's meet more excited about our conference championship potential than we were coming into it." 
Facing a Division III oppo­nent, the Irish saw the meet as an opportunity to experi­ment with lineup alternatives heading into their champi­onship season. 
"We learned a great deal," Welsh said. "We set up our entries so that we'd be able to see some alternatives and lineups we hadn't seen before. It was a very helpful meet for us." 
The meet provided an opportunity for Notre Dame's freshmen to stand out. Rookie Jonathan Whitcomb took top honors in the 1000­meter freestyle, while class­mates Marshall Sherman and Conor Evans finished first in the 100 backstroke and 200 butterfly, respectively. 
Fellow freshman B.J. Roth helped ensure a sweep in the distance freestyle events with a win in the 500 freestyle. Brian Maloy also contributed to the strong freshman show­ing with a first place finish in the 100 breaststroke. 
The meet also allowed many of Notre Dame's sen­iors to finish on top in their final meet at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Senior Danny Lutkus won the 50 free while fellow seniors Jeff Wood and Bill Bauman took top honors in the 100 free and 200 back­stroke, respectively. Senior Mitchell Sherman finished in second place in the 100 but­terfly behind Irish junior Andrew Hoffman. 
The Irish return to action at the Big East Conference Championships in Indianapolis from Feb. 18­
21. The Irish hope to earn their second straight confer­ence title and fourth in five years. , 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish earn sweep of Duke, Toledo 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Wrirer 
The No. 25 Irish put on 1!. dominat­ing performance over the weekend, defeating No. 36 Duke and Toledo by sc,ores of 5-2 and 7-0, respective­ly. 
Notre Dame's No. 37 doubles team of senior Brett Helgeson, and sophomore Tyler Davis were able to defeat the No. 38 team of Kiril Dimitrov and Alvain Michel of Duke by a score of 8-4. 
Sophomore Stephen Havens and freshman Casey Watt teamed up at No. 2 doubles to defeat Dylan Arnould and Reid Carleton by a score of8-2. 

Irish Freshman Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Matt Johnson were not able to pull out their No. 3 dou­bles match losing by a final score of 8-5 to David Holland and Torsten Wietoska. 
"Our freshmen are very talented," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Casey Watt and Niall Fitzgerald are tremendous shot makers. Each has the skill<> that rank up there with som~. of the best players to play here. 
No. 20 Helgeson was able to knock off No. 25 Carleton, in three set<> by a score of 4-6, 7-6, 1-0 (10-6). 
Havens played a close match with No. 45 Dimitrov at No. 2 singles falling in three sets by the score of 3­6,7-5,6-2. 
No. 112 sophomore Dan Stahl was able to pull out a win for the Irish at three singles over Arnould, in straight sets. 
Watt was able to earn another vic­tory over Jared Pinsky only dropping eight games. Fitzgerald did not fair as well in singles falling to Wietoska by a score of 6-1, 6-2, while Sam Keeton maintained his perfect sin­gles record this season defep.ting 


Holland 6-3, 6-2. 
"Sam has been great so far, but this is not unexpected," Bayliss said. "He has the ability to take the ball early and take away his opponent's time, so that has made him difficult for teams to prepare for." 
After a little bit of rest the Irish turned around and faced Toledo in the nightcap. 
Again the Irish were led by their top doubles duo of Helgeson and Davis, who defeated Jared Miller and Nulth Iiktikumchom by a score of8-0. 
Notre Dame sophomores David Anderson and Sean Tan competed at No. 3 doublL-s agairu,t the Rockets, losing 8-6 to Aleksander Elezovic and Levi Bent-Lee by a score of8-6. 
At No. 2 doubles, Havens and Watt again teamed up to defeat their opponents by a score of 8-5. 
Havens came away easily with a win at No. 2 singles over Sven Burus by a score of 6-2, 6-0. 
Davis was able to also earn a vic­tory over Bent-Lee by a final score of 6-3, 6-4, while Anderson won 6-1, 6­2 over Jayson Miller. 
Helgeson was the next singles match to finish, as he defeated Jared Miller 6-4, 6-2 at one ~ingles. Casey Watt continued his good day earning a win at No. 3 singles over Liktikumchom 7-6, 6-2. 
''Toledo has done well in the MAC the last few years," Bayliss said. "One thing we can count on is that we have great depth." 
Fitzgerald was able to pull out a three set win by a score of 6-3, 6-7, 1-0 over Elezovic to clinch the sweep. 
The Irish will next travel to Michigan State on Valentine's Day, Feb. 14. First serve is set for 12 p.m. 
Contact Kate Graharek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Woinen' s squad can't overcome Wolverines 
Other Irish wins in came from By NATHANI_EL LEE Maxwell and junior Megan Sporrs Wrirer Farrell. Farrell's 2:04.32 would earn the gold in the 200 individ-Despite taking fir-st in six ual medley, while fellow junior events, the No. 25 Notre Dame -Ashlee Edgell's touch in 2:06.65 Women's swimming and diving would be good enough to hold teams were unable to down the.-• off the Wolverines for second 

Michigan Wolverines, falling 141-102 Saturday in Ann Arbor. The loss in the final meet of the regular season puts the Irish at 6-3 heading into the Big East Championships next week­end. 
The day started of for the Irish with a second place finish in the 200 Medley Relay. The squad of freshman Colleen Fotsch and sophomores SaJilantha Maxwell, Kellyn Kuhlke and Amywren Miller clocked in at 1:43.51. 
The Irish got their first win of the meet at the hands of senior distance swimmer Casey Wagner in the 1000-meter free with an impressive 10:08.67. The All-Big East swimmer would also snag third in the 500 free with a time of 5:00.57. 
Miller built on her part in the 200 Medley with a handful of outstanding individual perform­ances. A speedy 23.06 would earn her a big win in the 50 Free, while a time of 50.55 would be enough for second in the 100 free field. 
place. Maxwell, in dominating 
fashion, blew the field away in 
the 100 Breast, taking first three 
seconds ahead of the next finish­
er with a blazing time of 1:02.69. 
In the dives, junior Natalie Stitt 
shined, racking up two wins for 
the Irish. Her first win came 
from a score of 298.27 in the 1­
meter, and her second at the 
hands of an impressive 302.77 in 
the 3-m.eter springboard. 
Senior Christina Riggins, 
freshman Amy Prestinario, 
sophomore Delia Cronin, and 
junior Maggie Behrens finished 
out the meet with third place in 
the 400 Free Relay at 3:30.50. 
Prepping for the postseason, which will start with the Big East Championships in Indianapolis, the Irish are look­-ing for a 13th consecutive league title. A win this weekend would extend the longest winning streak in the Big East for any 
sport. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at 
nlee5@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Park leads ND into spring 
By ERIC PRISTER Sporrs Wrirer 

The Notre Dame Women's golf team will end its three and a half month hiatus Monday when it travels to Palos Verdes, Calif. for the Northrop Grumman Regional Championship. In the three-day tourna­ment, which will begin the spring portion of their season, the No. 25 Irish will take on a field of 15 other universities, includ­ing No.1 UCLA, No.2 USC and No. 3 Arizona St. 
The Irish are coming off of a somewhat successful fall season with one tour­nament title and two other top 5 finishes. In their victory in the Heather Farr Memorial 
last September, Notre I!!!!!!!!!!!! Dame shot a 281, a record-low for the University. 
The Irish will be led by sophomore So-Ilyun Park. An All-American, Park leads the team with a 
74.87 scoring average, including a 66 in the record-setting Ileather Farr Memorial, which is also a University record. 
Joining Park for the 

Irish will be freshman Becca Huffer, who has the second-best scoring aver­age on the season. Huffer was recently named Colorado female high school athlete of the year for 2008, and has had an excellent first year for the Irish, having 13 out of her 15 scores counted. 
Junior Annie Brophy leads the team with 14 out of 15 scores counted, and has played consistent­ly for the Irish, averaging a 75.40 through 15 rounds. Brophy, Park and senior Lisa Maunu have each finished fourth indi­vidually in a tournament this season, the highest on the team. Park and Maunu finished tied for fourth at the Heather Farr, and Brophy finished fourth in the Lady 
Northern Tournament last October 
The Irish lineup is rounded out by sophomore Katie Conway, who has averaged a 76.92 so far this season. She missed the first tournament for the Irish, 'but has compet­ed in each of the others. Her 75 in the second round of the Heather Farr Memorial helped the Irish secure their record-set­ting performance. 
The five Irish starters will play a total of 54 holes over a three day span, playing 18 holes Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, with the top four scores each day counted towards their final total. 
Contact Eric Prister at ·eprister@nd.edu 
Monday, February 9, 2009 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame ekes out win over UM 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
The No. 14 Irish held serve at home and remained perfect on the season by fending off No. 18 Michigan 4-3 Friday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Notre Dame opened the match with a pair of convincing wins to clinch the doubles point as they have done in every match so far this season. The top-ranked doubles squad of senior Kelcy Tefft and reigning Big East player of the week freshman Kristy Frilling coasted to an 8-1 victory in the No. 1 doubles match. Shortly after, the team of freshman Shannon Matthews and junior Colleen Hielly claimed an 8-2 victory in the No. 3 doubles match to clinch the point for the Irish, Juniors Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik fought back from a 0-4 deficit to tie it up in their No. 2 doubles match before falling 8-5. 
In singles play, Matthews got the Irish started off on the right foot with a 6-0, 6-1 victory in the No. 6 singles match to extend the overall lead to 2-0. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Tefft followed suit downing her opponent in the No. 1 singles match 6-1, 6-2 to give Notre Dame a comfortable 3-0 lead. 
After Frilling dropped a tough contest 4-6, 4-6, sophomore Kristen Rafael claimed the cov­eted fourth point for Irish when she defeated her opponent 6-7, 6-2, 6-1 in the No. 4 singles match. Krisik and Ciobanu each dropped their singles matches in three-set thrillers. 
This victory gives the Irish a perfect 4-0 record so far this season and includes two victo­ries over top-twenty competi­tion. 
The Irish will travel to Madison, Wise. to compete in the 16-team ITA National Indoor championship tourna­ment on Feb. 13. Notre Dame defeated Pepperdine and No. 17 Arkansas to advance to the national championships next weekend. 
Last year, the Irish fell to No. 6 Georgia in the opening round of the tournament before split­ting their two games in the con­solation bracket. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 

SMC uses defense to take down Alma 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Perfect 
continued from page 24 
field." 
Not to be outdone by the men's team, the Irish women also went undefeated at the· Duals with a weekend record of 12-0. The women's squad improves to 32-2 on the sea­son, tying the program-best mark in win totals originally set in 1995. 

The women's outstanding performance was highlighted by wins over Michigan State (21-6), Air Force (23-4), UC San Diego (21-6), Detroit (25­2). Cleveland State (26-1), Florida (24-3), Cal Tech (24-3), and Stanford (21-6). 
Experience led the way for the women's squad, as senior sabreist Ashley Serrette earned her program-best 234th win, 43 more wins than the second-best total for sabre. Senior foilist Adrienne Nott tallied 24 wins at the event, moving into fourth place for all-time career foil wins. 
Although the Irish eagerly await the beginning of the postseason in two weeks, sev­eral of the talented under­classmen will head to New Mexico to compete in the Junior Olympics, which begin on February 13th. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Louisville collles back to beat SJU 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Louisville had 
a tough day at Madison Square 
Garden on Sunday. The fifth­
ranked Cardinals still managed 
a 60-47 victory over St. John's 
because of their defense. 
Their leading scorer for the 
season finished with three 
points. Their freshman center, 
who was half the offense in the 
first half, had two teeth knocked 
out and went to a hospital 
instead of returning to the 
game. Their shots weren't 
falling. It all pointed to a second 
straight loss. 
"Everything that could go wrong for us from a physical standpoint did," Louisville coach Rick Pitino said, then started his list with his leading scorer. "Terrence Williams, I admire him so much as a basketball player. He shouldn't have played today. His right wrist was taped ·up. It's a terrible, terrible bruise, but nothing keeps him out. He couldn't shoot but be had seven rebounds and seven 
assists. 
"(Samardo) Samuels was 
playing terrific and was off to a big game but had his teeth knocked out. Our guys found a way to win against a team that played very hard. I am very pleased we overcame a lot of adversity." 

Jerry Smith, who didn't start for the second time this season, was a big part of that. 
The junior guard had a sea­son-high 21 points, 19 in the ·second half when he matched 
· the team's entire total for the first half, its lowest mark of the season. "It was our defensive intensity that turned things around," Smith said. "I wasn't looking for shots but when the opportunity came I took it." The Cardinals (18-4, 9-1 Big East), who were coming off their first conference loss of the sea­son to No. 1 Connecticut, shot 
38.5 percent from the field (20­for-52), including 3-for-17 from 3-point range. 
The numbers are a lot better when you consider what they did in the first half. 
The Cardinals were 8-for-23 at the break (34.8 percent) and missed all eight of their 3-point attempts. They were outre­bounded 28-20 and Samuels was heading for a dentist appointment, while Louisville trailed 22-19. 
"We were a little flat and we did have those things going against us," Pitino said. "I was concerned because we weren't making shots and sometimes when you don't make shots you lose your confidence. But we went backdoor. That's what's we kept preaching. there's easy 
·l 
baskets to be had." I 
Smith had three baskets on I backdoor cuts, including a back­door dunk on a pass from Earl I Clark that made it 4 7-38 with 
2:58 to go. Clark had 10 of his 12 points in the second half. 
Sean Evans had 12 points and nine rebounds for the Red Storm (12~11. 3-8), who have lost three of four. St. John's shot 
31.1 percent for the game (19­for-61), including 2-for-12 on 3s. 
"They've got a very good team and they made some big plays in the second half," St. John's coach Norm Robert said. "We missed some shots but I thought we played extremely hard. We really competed hard." 

ByALEXWEST 
Sports Writer 
Playing its best defensive game of the year, Saint Mary's dominated Alma 66­39 on Saturday afternoon from start to finish. 
"I think Alma missed some shots early. on," Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. "We built some momentum from that." 
The Belles (13-8) started out strong, building an early 15-8 lead. The Scots (7-13) 
were able to cut it to a 15-12 game before the Belles pulled away to a 30-20 half­time lead. 
In the sec­ond half, the Belles start­ed on a 26-1 run that ulti­mately sealed the deal. Saint Mary's fin-
ward Erin Newsom and 12 points and 9 rebounds from Anna Kammrath, but they also received quality play off the bench. Kelley Murphy added 7 points and 8 rebounds and Jessica Centa added 10 points com­ing off the bench for the Belles. 
"Our bench is continuing to improve." Henley said. "With the loss of Nicole Beier due to a foot injury, these two players have real­ly stepped up for us." 
The Belles are now 11-2 in 
"Our bench is continuing to improve. With the loss ofNicole Beier due to a foot injury, [Centa and Murphy] really stepped up for us" 
Jennifer Henley Belles coach 

ished the game shooting better than 40 percent from the field. The Belles also forced the Scots into 25 turnovers and held them to 25 percent shooting. 
"We continue to stress the importance of team defense and defending the paint." Henley said. 
The Belles received their norm a! 10 points and 8 rebounds from senior for-
conference play and hold second place in the MIAA with just four reg­ular season games to go. Their next contest will be at home against Adrian. Saint Mary's defeated the Bulldogs 74­69 at Adrian 
the last time the two teams faced off. 
"We did not play particu­larly well down the stretch at their place." Henley said. "They are a very good team who will be ready for us." 
Tip-off is slated for 7:30 
p.m. Wednesday at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 9, 2009 
Bruins 
continued from page 24 
Saturday. 
And !tll the words Notre Dame has thrown around for the past month to explain how it'll emerge from its tailspin ­talk _of soul searching and refo­cusing -never seemed as empty as they did Saturday. 
"UClA's a good team and we knew that," Irish forward Luke Harangody said. "We didn't fight today at all and it showed." 
The 26-point loss was the largest margin of defeat for a Brey-coached team at Notre Dame. Harangody had his worst game of the season and for the first time in 53 games, scored less than 10 points. Harangody grabbed one rebound and finished with just five points on 2-for-12 shooting, a product of UCLA's double teams that frustrated him the entire game. 
"Time for us to go back to step one," Harangody said. "There's not much you could say. This was embarrassing today, definitely a low point in my career at Notre Dame." 
It didn't take long for Notre Dame's disastrous day to start. 
Less than four minutes ticked off the clock before the Bruins opened up an 11-2 lead. 
Nine points is hardly a large deficit, but Notre Dame couldn't have been farther behind. 
Bruins forward Nikola Dragovic had firmly planted Luke Harangody on his behind, the end result of a stiff rejection near the rim, and·guard Josh Shipp had thrown down an ESPN-worthy one-handed alley­oop from guard Darren Collison. 
"Our transition 'D' tonight was terrible," Harangody said. "It was like a layup drill for them. That can't happen. It's embarrassing." 
The run was indicative of how UCLA carried itself in warm-ups, jumping up and down and chest bumping all around, showing no signs of sleepiness because of a 10 a.m. start time. 
Then there was Notre Dame, who sat quietly during intro­ductions -and played even quieter. The Irish committed turnovers, had lapses on defense and created little offen­sively. Notre Dame looked like a team that didn't learn much from its six previous defeats. 
Those opening minutes car­ried over the rest of the half. Following a Notre Dame time­out, Collison buried a three and center Alfred Aboya sent in another monster jam. Notre Dame was down 20-13 and fad­ing fast. The rest of the first half, there were more turnovers by Notre Dame, more defensive lapses, and more easy baskets for UCLA. The Irish were down 46-30 at intermission. 
"They got off to such a great start shooting the basketball and scoring it," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We had some great looks early, which has been a little bit of our history this year and you've got to knock down a few more of those. Transition 'D' hurt us at key times." 
The Irish were down 16. Again, not an insurmountable deficit. But UCLA came out of the locker room with the same intensity it had in the first half -and so did the Irish. Another Collison 3-pointer made the score 65-40 with 12:21 left to play. Notre Dame failed to score over the next four minutes and found itself down 73-40 with 
8:13 remaining. Brey took our Harangody with just over 10 minutes left and kept him on the bench the rest of the game. 
"My feeling was, you weren't jump-starting it today," Brey said. "No use forcing that." 
Harangody, meanwhile, was­n't too thrilled. 
"I don't know what he was trying to say to me, but I was ready to go in there the whole time," Harangody said. "''m kind of upset he didn't go back to me. I didn't think I had to go back in the game because he always knows I'm ready to fight for him." 
Aboya led all scorers with 19 points. Collison added 17. Junior guard Tory Jackson, who began the game on the bench, an attempt by Brey to get results by shaking up his rotation, led the Irish with 1 7 points. Guard Kyle McAlarney added 16. 
"We're obviously struggling right now. We're not going to deny that," McAlarney said. "We're trying to find our way back from where we were in the beginning of the season. It's. a process, but hopefully with a win, one win, just look for one win right now." 
One win never seemed so hard to get. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Losses 
continued from page 24 

Notre Dame has maintained that it is capable of going on an extended winning streak and get itself back in NCAA Tournament contention. So what has to change for that to happen? 
"That's hard for me to say right now," Brey said. "I don't know if I have an answer to that right now." 
Irish forward Luke Harangody had a similar thought. 
"I don't know right now. I'm kind of at a loss for words," said Harangody, who finished with a season-low five points. "We're not fighting at all, .we're not the team we were last year." 
Brey would elaborate on his answer. 
"Somehow you've got to come into the locker room and win a game and feel good about your­self," Brey said. "But there's a lot of things, things you've got to do better before that, transition 'D,' battling in the pain _more consistently. And we have done that, didn't do it as much in the second half. 
"Staying in character offen­sively, and screening consistent­ly. I don't know if we've done that against this level of team for 40 minutes where we've really helped each other consis­tently on offense. We do it for maybe three possessions, and then maybe two we don't work as hard. Work on offense is something that against really good teams we haven't done consistently." 
Or, as guard Kyle McAlarney said, the Irish need to work on "everything." 
The Irish are desperate for a win right now. To try and save the season, Brey is re-opening every position in practice this week. No one is guaranteed a starting spot, he said. 
"I said, 'I'll see you in practice tomorrow, we'll compete for playing time, starting jobs and if that rotates the rest of the year, that's the way it rotates,"' Brey said. 
Notre Dame's next game will be Thursday, one month to the 
said don't settle for the jumpers, keep attacking,
DePaul 

going towards the basket," continued from page 24 said Lechlitner, who finished 
with 13 points, three assists The game stayed close for the and three steals. entire second half, with nei­Threatt ran the length of ther team getting ahead by the floor almost uncontested more than four points. With and made a layup to bring 
3:33 left in the game, junior DePaul within two with three guard Melissa seconds .left. Lechlitner stole A f t e r the ball, ran Bruszewski
"/ was holding my
the length of made one free
breath. That was a
the floor and throw, Threatt made a pull-up pretty open shot from had a good look 
jump shot to quite a ways out. at a 3-pointer 
give Notre to tie as time
She'd hit afew earli­
Dame a 54-53. expired, and Another er. I was saying some the shot came 
Lechlitner prayers there." dangerously jumper two close to going minutes later in.
Muffett McGraw
tied the score "I was hold­at 56. Irish coach ing my breath," 
Bruszewski McGraw said. hit a baseline "That was a jumper with 50 seconds left pretty open shot from quite a and Lechlitner made the ways out. She'd hit a few.ear­front erid of a one-and-one to lier. I was saying some give Notre Dame a three­prayers there." point lead. Barlow played the majority 
McGraw called Lechlitner's of the game on a sore ankle pull-up jump shot and that she rolled in the first Bruszewski's baseline jumper half. She left the game for a the plays of the game. while but returned, limping Lechlitner said McGraw told at times. the team to look for good "It was really painful right shots. when it happened, but once I 
"During a timeout, coach got back into the flow of the 
day that its losing streak began and against the team that start­ed it, Louisville. The Cardinals downed the Irish 89-73 in over­time at Freedom Hall on Jan. 12. 
.That gives the Irish a few days to lick their wounds, regroup and to work on Brey's laundry list of improvements. But one thing the Irish won't be doing before Thursday is feeling sorry for themselves. 
Harangody added: "We're 21, 22-year-old men, we're not going to feel sorry for our­selves." 
"We've been on a heck of a stretch with who we've played, that's not lost on me, but you don't have time to feel sorry for yourself because here comes another one on Thursday ... " Brey said. "It's going to be hard. Hardest thing we've ever been in, in our program's history, biggest challenge in the history of our program." 
It's a challenge that won't get any easier. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
game it was okay," Barlow said. 
Notes: 
+The Pink Zone fundraiser raised more than $38,000 for breast cancer research. 
"It seemed like a special day when we went out," said McGraw, wbose mother, Anne O'Brien, is a breast cancer survivor. "When I saw that pink in the arena, I took a deep breath and it really made me appreciate what those women had gone through. We're worried about making a shot or turning the ball over and they're surviv­ing cancer." 
The referees used pink whistles, fans had pink shirts and the players had pink shoelaces and uniforms. The Irish players even had streaks of pink in their hair; Bruszewski's was more bla­tant than the rest. 
"It was the hair. Got a new attitude going," Bruszewski said of her performance. "''m a little different, a little more punk, so I just wanted to add it in." 
+Notre Dame is now 5-1 against ranked opponents this season. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
osu 
continued from page 24 
cles, the rebound bounced towards Irish captain Erik Condra· and with just over a second remaining the senior buried a game-tying goal. 
Less than a minute later, sophomore Calle Ridderwall buried another Irish powerplay go~l giving Notre Dame a 4-3 overtime win. 
Cole started things off early for Notre Dame with a blast from the point only five min­utes into the game. The Buckeyes fought back over the next two periods, taking the lead twice before the Irish finally pulled away in dramatic fashion. 
Ohio State got goals from Corey Elkins and Sergio Somma to take the lead in the second period. Midway through the third, Condra started the come­back with his first of two pow­erplay goals. 
After falling behind once again with three minutes remaining the Irish got the break they needed. 
Buckeye freshman Ian Boots got tagged with a five-minute major for spearing. The penalty gave Notre Dame a man advan­tage for the rest of the game. Condra and Ridderwall were both able to advantage and stretch Notre Dame's road win streak to 12 games. 

The win did not come without a hefty price for the Irish though. 
Junior right wing Hyan Thang left the game in the third peri­od with what appeared to be a serious lower leg injury. Thang's left leg got caught when chasing down a puek along the boards and buckled awkwardly underneath him. The junior, who has nine goals so far this season, had to be helped off the ice and did not dress for Sunday afternoon's game. 
No members of the tp,am were available to comment on the extent or the injury dufJ to travel. 
Without Thang (m the iee, Notrn Dame fp,JJ to the 
Buckeyes in the Sunday mati­nee 4-1. 
Junior Christiaan Minella started things off with his sixth goal or the season midway through the second period. 
The goal, Notre Dame's fourth powerplay score on the weekend, came ofT of a rebound from a Kevin Deeth shot. The Irish converted only one of their six man advantages after going 3-for-5 Friday night. 

The Buckeyos answered with a llurry of goals late in the see-· ond stanza. Loss than a minute after Minella's goal senior John Albert tied the game up with his tflnth tally of the season. Albert also pieked up assists on goals from Shane Sims and Taylor Stol"ishen later in the period. 
The pace settled down in the third as Ohio State goalie Dustin Carlson held off all of Notre Dame's chances before the Buckeyes added an empty netter at the end. Carlson fin­ished with 32 saves. 
The loss was the first for Notre Dame on the road since opening the season with a 5-2 defeat at the hands of Denver. However, due to Friday night's win and other games in the conference this weekend, the Irish did lock up a first round bye and home ice in the second round of the CCI-lA tournament this weekflnd. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Monday, February 9, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page. 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Feeling bloated 6 Eyeliner boo-boo 
11 "Don't tase me. _r 14 Make amends (for) 15 Bizarre 
16 Experiment site 17 Psychologically manipulated 
191 
20 Lawman Wyatt 
21 "The Andy Griffith Show" boy 
22Cowboy's greeting 
24 End of a student's e-mail address 
26 Town shouters 28 Place to play twenty-one 31 Jewish mystiCal doctrine 
34 Formulaic 
37 "Long ago and _away .. : 38 Furnace output 39 Western treaty 
grp. 40 Car with a logo 
of four rings 
41 Lubricate 
42 Put-upon 
46 Out. as a library 
book 48 Smooth and 
lustrous 
49 At an angle 
52 Galas 
53 Norwegian coastal feature 
55 Car that comes with a driver 57 Opera set along 
the Nile 
61 ·-Vegas 
62 Uke players in 
pin-the-tail-on­
the-donkey 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
65 Likely 66Helpers 67 Rationed (out) 68 Crosses out 69 Silly birds 70 Escalator parts 
Down 
Comic Kaplan 2 Gillette razor 3 Go out of sight, 
as gas prices 4 Criticizes, 
perhaps unfairly 5 Craving 6 Ivory or Coast 7 "lf_be the 
food of love. play on": Shak. 8 Onetime dental anesthetic 
9 ·-· you sleeping?" 10 Fiery-tempered sort. they say 11 Loses it 12 Ayn who wrote 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Thomas Hellman 
35Way cool 45 "Xanadu" grp. 56 Retailer's goods: Abbr.
36 AOL and others, 
47 Rower's need 
58 Unemployed
in brief SO Omit in 59 Bottomless 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CEI.•EBRITit:S BORN ON TUIS DAY. Daqd "PI'""'""' F>mdL 3~: Seth G=n. 3'>: R•>lx•rr Kkin. <ff; l<<l K<•r~x:L 69 
Happy Birtltday: n·. vHaltl!a! yon r<ll"<' !lie >IJH!dru\1 !;<) Y<'ll ,·an S<J.I<It:llC )'<"lf,;<;llll'<mlllt<e mai.n~tre~nu <:~)w~t. Y<}ll have. St.)lltethiur k~ prove tfn~ y\?a.t aud. wHh patkuc~. o.me and eOQrt, )'()U W111 bt~ ahk h)· show YE)ms.df as 11 {i.JI\'l.' fo ht~ n:.~(:"kotl:t'd Wtlh Staud up Jor )<JUr IJel!r.:h and !i.·halkngt~ iutyon~..~ whu tries fo kn~.:~lt: yfm dov. n YftJlf mnntx:rs ~1\."" 4. t 1. 1-a . .20, 26. Jl. 47 
ARfhS (MaJ:Cb 21·Apnll9): R•m wtU I~ ne<'~\S<Ity 11' yvu w;mtto IIlii'"'"~ y;~lt hcall11 au•l weU ·being. 'Yvu h;:r~.·e p-tven from !he h~art .and you Jtt."t;!d h> n:.tuvcnat~. lt Ol4ty 1"< \bffit'11ll ti:Jr yn~1 t<) ac.ccpl he~p hut n:~.)W i~ tW1 the lim~ re.tc~~1 what <'thertt. w:u~t to ~tve • * * ** 
TAURUS {April Zll-Ma}' 20): Ytll.lcatl eXj>Cc! l<l h•vc ~~~~.hi on }'<>\If h:uu:h 11' \''>llltY to tOn·e ynur wUI ~md )\)Hf \Vay qn t.hj,~ nu.es p.::tn love. Lef t>\'~~.ryonc d<1 h1~ or ll\..'r uw·n tb.inl!. .i-\'-'ORi nn~h~~p:;. t~r~mnenb, r\:!!:k.,._, ~l"("id:eut~ or pokuti:~~Uy dan~Cft.lU\ S.lhmtions by 1aktn1! pre cautwn·~. ** 
GEMINI (May ?I·Irme 20): 1'•k~ c<mlml make tile lk<:l!lion!l aud pla.>> ami owryouc Will lit ink ym1 ;JXe bhuf<1US Yon ~houM be lr.welinr. Vt!liting ol<lli1cll<h and or~aHil.lll~ rwnls Yo-Hr ~bihty ((~lake on a ~~<:t<k uf magmtude '\\·1!llmpre:s.s ~-'iHk'on~ with whmu yo1t'\~ wan led {(H~Omit~(~C ** * * 
CANCER (1ture 21. July 22): Your mmd !lhou.ld be ou maki.np your hum-., t'<'llet.l<ll> ch;mgc;; arc-tlJ~!;h"lnmt ;:.:nd -c~n lead h.l a better p~.:~i!'lt)n Now is uol the-lime tv \\'(JTfY but it •~ the tlnte ~o be Jm.10Cti"le ~md pn:~te.d y~..)ltr J~thtm. ** * 
LEO (July 23-AIIg. 22): Ymu e11i~t1:oim1•f~ charm will wiu be;~tts m~l ftw1•iships '11~< tnm'C oHtgo:i:n~ yo1:t are. fhe U\s:~ ronv:m'k 1bi11~~ \Vdl dcvdt1f>. EnJn} rltt' Ulnrn...~ut aud nmkc t'Vl~fj· nt-ovc connJ and you. ""'dl reap the rewards. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23..S..p!.. 22): You may 1~1 to mak~ sonll: adJH>tment~ tv your f'la.w. 111 <>rder to hdhli yonr drc~11na, bopt~' :wd \\hhe~. A plan h.l p;M'tncr wtth '!t<(M:Ut."Oil<~ '!..hm.dd hr bf()Ufh.l out inloth.: upen. On<"' you kilO\\ where you :>~and. y(>U t•n mow fon•ard *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2J..(Jct. 22): Ym1 ~au peltluu!t.• done •I h''""' !hal W>llli<?fp make your hfc e>\..41Cf .aud pk4'he dte l~ople yntt ~..··are aho1tt t:lwst ....\.im for prcatcr comfurt, kss strrs.s .and a '~'Y fillod \Vllh frietwh. hm a1td a dMJ:Ic~ to IIKn~;,,;c y<m.r JXll»llarl!y. Y»ur ~~"'"""IY Will bring ltl"'•l retums **** 
SCORPIO (Oe!. 23.Nov. 21): Don't I'll! 100 mu~b <>tnl'basi> ou wllllt vthers wy. Yo11 don't uced ne~alimy and youl1.we 100 much al <lake 1<1 let others l!ll:ddk in your a!fair>. Be COli· ll<\U$ wbik l:mWJ.ill!( ,1nd a'<'oid atJ'IUl!eUh Will! pe\lpk who Call mllu.:nce }\ltlf !'UIIIre. 111 * 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
I tORUS j 
1 
r rJ 


THE: PRODUCER ENTERED n1E MAr<ATHON r<AC£: ~USE HE WAS GOOD AT--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 

J I I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: [ 

I I I J " [ I I X]" 
(Answers Monday) Yesterday's IJumbles: TRACT THYME BRAZEN WEASEL Answer: When the clerk whispered to the customer over the counter. it was -BETWEEN THEM 


HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE 
QU£5riONOFrH£ DAY: WHERe YOU YOU IJKI TO INVOY THI DoMe Pt/K$? 



SC!uMP McGee vOliN H. STACK CRACKeRS Till QUCK 
NINNt PORriR 
.TIINOI!t O'NIIU 611>/IOP, OI'F-C;/IMPVS WISI'OUIIP fiNor.I'AifUIJ' 
"Sf'UfJYtCl/NfTIS. "1!/T'IIIR l/NPIR "100/II'T.

"Willi./! rM PRtvltm, "ON Till SICRiir
1'110 11' CAN RIAIJ.Y WAIT.-AM I GONNA
Till DoM/! OR
11' CAN N PAMTIROI.IS /StAN{) IN Till
86 A PISf'RACriON W'H/1.1! IM ON 1¥ IN f'lll OUISf'ION
II' IT'S TOO GOOP." /.A/(6./'
I'ROM 5Tl/fJYINfT," OF r11e PAY?r
Till ..tOIIN.'' 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday. through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 9, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Losing skid continues in blowout to UCLA 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Wrirer 
LOS ANGELES -Over the span of Notre Dame's seven­game losing streak, Irish coach Mike Brey has dubbed himself "Mr. Positive," a man always in search of something good to build upon for the next game. 
But the only positive the Irish (12-10) can take away from Saturday's 89-63 loss to UCLA (19-4) is that they can't possibly play any worse. 
The freefalling Irish hit rock bottom at Pauley Pavilion, as the Bruins ran circles around an Irish team that, for all their struggles the past month, never looked as complacent, as sloppy or as helpless all season as it did 
see BRUINS/page 22 

L.A. nighttnare 

Team left searching for remedy to losses 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Wrirer 
LOS ANGELES -For as slow as the unmerciful clock seemed to tick away for Notre Dame during its 89-63 loss to UCLA Saturday, the opposite is true when applied to Notre Dame's season. 
The loss to the Bruins was Notre Dame's seventh in a row and with it came another missed opportunity for a quality win. The Irish are 12-10, 3-7 in the Big East, and the wins they thought they could hang their hat on, over Georgetown and over Texas, look worse by the day, as the Hoyas and Longhorns are going through rough periods of their own. 
see LOSSES/page 22 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Last-second shot doesn't fall and Irish hold on vs. DePaul 
Center. The game was a "Pink Barlow said. "In the last cou­last time Notre Dame faced year."
By BILL BRINK Zone," a fundraiser for ple games I feel like I was DePaul, on Jan. 6 in Chicago, The Irish had lost four of 
Sports Editor 
breast cancer research, and just standing there not help­the Irish dismantled the Blue their last six games before many survivors were in ing out in the offensive end." Demons 86-62. Sunday's contest. McGraw 
On a day when survival attendance and were honored DePaul senior forward "We knew coming into this said the team's practices dur­reigned supreme, Notre at halftime. Natasha Williams had 20 game that Notre Dame was ing that stretch, however, Dame survived a tough chal­Sophomore forward Becca points and 10 rebounds and going to see a different team were some of the best of the lenge from DePaul. Bruszewski had 14 points and junior guard China Threatt than they saw at our gym," season. 
A last-minute 3-point 12 rebounds, her first career added 11 points. DePaul coach Doug Bruno "I've seen resilience," she attempt clanged off the rim, double-double. Junior guard The win moves Notre Dame said. "My message to the said. "I've seen an amazing and No. 19 Notre Dame held Ashley Barlow had 19 points, to 17-5 and 6-4 in conference team after the game was that perseverance." on to beat No. 25 DePaul 62-tying her season high. play. DePaul drops to 18-6 I think this team has a 59 Sunday in the Joyce "I was just attacking," and 6-4 in the Big East. The chance to be very special this see DEPAUL/page 22 
HocKEY 
Squad splits series vs. OSU 
Last-second goal ties Friday's game, Irish win in extra session 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
With the final seconds ticking away Friday night, No. 15 Ohio State looked poised to skate away with a much-needed win over No. 2 Notre Dame. The Buckeyes led 3-2 after looking to be in control throughout most of the game. 
All of that changed in the blink of an eye. 
Sophomore defenseman Ian Cole, operating with a 6-on-4 advantage, patiently handled the puck at the blue line as the clock crept below ten. He avoided a Buckeye defender and slipped a pass to freshman Billy Maday. Maday ripped a shot from the tops of the cir-
see OSU/page 22 


FENCING 
Men's team coinpletes perfect season in Duals 
By CHRIS MASOUD SportS Writer 
Perfection in the sports world is hardly commonplace, but for the Irish feneing program per­fection is just second nature. The top-ranked Notre Dame men's fencing team put togeth­~~r a 14-0 record at the Notre Dame Duals this weekend to finish the rPgular season at a pnrfnet 34-0. 
The undefnated 2009 season is thP 20th in program history and the l'irst since 200:~. Tht~ men's win total of 34 is the highest in Notre Dame history. 
The men's squad earned vic­tories over Lawrence (25-2), Cal Tech (22-5), UC San Diego (18-9), Wayne State (19-8) and Oberlin (25-2). Facing seventh­ranked Stanford in a highly­anticipated matchup, the Irish emerged victorious with a 15­12 win over the Cardinal to protect their undefeated record. 
Once again the underclass­men led the way for the Irish, as freshmen Reggie Bentley and Gerek Meinhardt. and sophomore Avery Zuck each contributed two wins. Although relatively inexperienced, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski believes his youngsters are adapting rapidly to collegiate fencing. 
"ThPy are adjusting very quickly to the different type of compntition, the diffprent type of bouts because definitely it's a different systf~m." Bednarski said. "Sometimes there are sur­prises from the intensity of the bouts, intensity between schools, and intensity of engagement. But I believe we will also be successful on this 
see PERFECT/page 21 








