
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Brennan Bolhnan named valedictorian 
Senior biological science major, peace studies minor earned 4.0 GPA, plans to attend medical school 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Editor 
Brennan Bollman, the class of 2009 valedictorian, earned a 4.0 grade point average, but she said many of her most valuable learn­ing experiences from the past four years have hap­pened outside of the class­room. 
"One of the things I've enjoyed most about being at Notre Dame is spending time with friends who will engage issues beyond the class­room," she said. "I have groups of friends who will cook dinner and invite their 
professors to their houses. Our learning doesn't have to be confined to classes and homework and clubs." 
Bollman said she is grate­ful for the 
opportunity to speak to her class at graduation. 
"I know that my class is full of incredi­b I y 


e n g a g e d Bollman and accom­plished people, and I'm just one of them," she said. "I will just work hard to speak well on our behalf because 
we're an amazing group of young people." 
Bollman, a biological sci­ence major and peace stud­ies minor from St. Joseph, 
Mich., said she will attend 
medical school next year in 
the hopes of becoming a 
doctor, but she said a career 
in medicine was not always 
her goal. 
"I came to Notre Dame 
thinking I would go more 
along the lines of biomedical 
research," she said. "But it 
was doing the summer serv­
ice programs that reawak­ened me to the idea of being a doctor." 
Bollman spent 10 weeks during the summer before 
sophomore year working in a Catholic worker shelter for women and taught English in Cambodia the following sum­mer. Both service projects were organized through the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
"Living in that shelter is what really got me engaged in social issues," she said. "It was really a transformative experience." 
Bollman said her experi­ences helping individual peo­ple through service projects drew her away from research and towards medi­cine as a career. 
see BOLLMAN/page 8 

Jenkins faces criticism; asks to meet coalition 
Group of alumni launch Web site to tally sum of withheld donations 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Editor 
Seeking a "change of leadership" at Notre Dame, a group of alumni launched a Web site Thursday to attempt to quantify the amount of money the University will lose in donations as a result of University President Fr. John Jenkins' invita­tion for President Obama to deliver the 2009 Commencement address, said David DiFranco, a founder of the site. 
see ALUMNI/page 6 


Sophomore. plays 'Wheel of Fortune' 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA News Writer 
Notre Dame sophomore Nick Normandin has fulfilled a dream that many college students may secretly have -to appear on a widely watchnd game show. Tonight, millions will sen him appear on the popular gamP show "Wheel of Fortune." 
Normandin. a science-busi­ness major from Zahm House, auditioned and secured a spot on the show last summer. 
Normandin said that he was mainly motivated to do so by boredom. 
"All my buddies back home are on the quarter system, so I was home by mys.elf for a solid month and I was bored out of my mind," Normandin said. "One day my mom suggested I try out for a game show, so I decided to do 'Wheel of Fortune' bBcause I'm good at that." 
The auditions took place in Los Angel('s, which is a 45­minute drive from Costa Mesa, Normandin's hometown. He said the experience was unlike any 
see WHEEL/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
University appoints gameday director 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
At the request of the ad hoc Committee on Safety, Security and Hospitality, University President Fr. John Jenkins has appointed Michael Seamon as director of gameday operations, according to a University press release. 
Seamon, the current assis­tant vice president for University events and proto­col, has accepted the addi­tional position. 
His responsibilities include managing the football game­day safety, security and hos­pitality operations that run through various University organizations. 
In an Oct. 14 article, The Observer reported the ad hoc committee was formed in response to complaints of aggressive behavior from police and ushers. 

The committee released a report in March, detailing recommended actions the administration should take, including installing a game­day operations director. 
Seamon said a large part of his job is to make sure Notre Dame continues to have a lasting effect on those who visit its campus. 
"In my conversations with 
see SEAMON/page 6 


President withdraws invitation to meet after group makes requests 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins formally extended an invita­tion to meet with a student coalition group, ND Response, which has voiced concerns about the invitation to President Barack Obama to speak at Commencement, but Jenkins declined to meet with the group after they made several specific requests in a reply to his invitation. 
According to a press release from 
see JENKINS/page 8 



Hogwarts comes to Notre Dame 
Event features Harry Potter-themed dinner, decorations 
By CASEY KENNEY News Writer 
South Dining Hall was filled with magic and enchantment Thursday evening when the Freshmen Class Council and Notre Dame Food Services hosted Notre Dame's first Harry Potter Night. 
The event was planned a<> a fun occa­sion that would appeal to a wide audi­('nce, according to Vineent Lau, a fresh­man and the coordinator ofthe event. 
"The idea f(,r the event arose bPcause so many people notir.ed the similarities between South Dining Hall and the din-
see HOGWARfS/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Keyes joins Terry's efforts page 4 • Harangody enters draft page 24 • Wilco concert review page 12 • Viewpoint page 10 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 1 7, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Winter is 


worthwhile 
During the cold winter months, I often question why it is I chose to go to school at Notre Dame. I have never been a fan of the cold, and while the winters in Connecticut aren't that much warmer, they aren't nearly Liz O'Donnell as bad as they are here in lovely South News Production Bend. It is Editor days like yes­terday that I remember why I decided to go to school north of the Mason Dixon line. As I sit out on the lawn behind McGlinn writing this column, I have become aware of just how little I would accomplish if I went to school in Florida. 
It is currently 62 degrees and 
2:30 in the afternoon, and I have no intention of doing anything for the rest of the dav other than sit­ting outside and soaking up the rays (and of course attending the Harry Potter dinner in SOH). If I went to school anywhere down south, 62 degrees would probably constitute a breezy spring after­noon. After my first winter here in South Bend, I have come to recognize anything over 55 degrees as acceptable for warm weather. For that matter, since returning from Spring Break, I have refused to don anything but flip flops. 
Lets hypothetically say that Notre Dame was set in Miami. I have to imagine the rate of atten­dance of classes would drop sig­nificantly. Speaking for myself, I can tell you that I would be much more inclined to spend my after­noons at the beach than sitting in some building learning about Machiavelli or Darwin. But, there is a downside to this. We pseudo­Eskimos in Northern Indiana can appreciate days like yesterday where the weather is beautiful. 
While on Spring Break, some friends who went to school at the University of Tampa came down to Naples to visit. Their idea of Spring Break was to make the four-hour trek along the Gulf Coast. While my friends and I opted to bake ourselves in the sun all day, the boys slept late and barely left the house. We thought this was strange, but then we remembered that they could take the weather for granted because it is the same all year round. 
While this may not seem to have a point, I do. We go to school at Notre Dame because we love it here, and we can appreciate the warm days where the weather is perfect. Oh, and we also have some incentives to get good grades. When discussing GPAs over dinner, one of our friends at Tampa announced he had a .83. If nothing else we have incentive to get good grades so we won't have to live in -35 degree weather for the rest of our lives. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Liz O'Donnel at 
eodonnel@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards icself as a professional publica­tion and mives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE SPOT ON CAMPUS? 







Angela Carothers  Jordan Matulis  Johanna Kirsch  Sarah Spieler  Stephen Santay  
senior Badin  freshman Howard  junior McGlinn  freshman PW  sophomore Alumni  
''My room ...  "The Pink  "O'Shag  "Starbucks ...  "Leighton  
except  Lounge in  stairwell  because you  Concert Hall in  
apparently rm  Howard Hall.  window bays ...  can't use flex  the DPAC ...  
alergic to it."  It's pink and fiun. ,  it's fun to scare people"  points off campus"  great concerts.,  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENY/Observer 

Students break dance Thursday afternoon outside of South Dining Hall for Project Fresh, a club that educates students about the four elements of hlp hop, while students watch. 
OFFBEAT 
ment last month. Detectives said two peo­ple were sleeping inside their apartment about 3 
a.m. on March 18 when the man broke in. 
Police used video sur­veillance systems at the apartment complex to help identify the suspect. 
Police said one of the stolen frozen food items was found at his home and he was arrested. 
Police said he tried to enter six other apart­ments but the doors were locked. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibit entitled "BFA/MFA Candidates' Thesis" will held in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art on Friday. The exhibit opens at 
10:00 a.m. Admission is free. 
The "Italian Drawings Seminar'' exhibition will begin at 10:00 a.m. on Friday in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibit will have 16th and 17th cen­tury drawings by Italian mas­ters. 
The Ten Years Hence Lecture Series entitled "Future Think: How to Put Change in Perspective and See More Clearly What is Coming'' will be held in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture will begin at 
10:40 a.m. on Friday. 
"Community Organizing: Getting at the Root of the Problem" will be held at 1:00 
p.m. on Friday in 131 DeBartolo Hall. 
"The Shirt" Unveiling Ceremony will begin at 4:00 p.m.on Friday. Former Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz will be speaking. 
Finish on the 50 5K run and one mile fun walk will begin at 8:00 a.m. on Saturday. Runners can register at http://recsports.nd.edu. There will also be registration the day of the race. The registra­tion fee is five dollars. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

I I I 
I 'J II 'I
,IIIII/
I I I 

HIGH 49 HIGH 53 LOW 36 LOW 38 
Michigan man helps wife deliver surprise baby boy 
MONTCALM COUNTY, Mich. A western Michigan man helped deliver his wife's baby boy despite not knowing she was pregnant. The Grand Rapids Press reported the man called 911 early Thursday as his wife was in labor. The man told the dispatcher that he had not known his 27-year-old wife was pregnant. He said they recently quit smoking and thought her recent weight gain was related. 
The couple has two children, and the mother 

has an additional child from a previous relation­ship. 
Following the successful delivery, the dispatcher talked the man through post-birth procedures. The child was taken to a local hospital. 
Man caught stealing $82 worth of chicken wings 
NEWARK, Del. -Police said a 22-year-old man broke into an apartment to steal $82 worth of chicken wings and Hot Pockets. Police arrested the man on Wednesday and charged him with breaking into the apart-
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 0:: 
LIJ 
::c 
~ 

3: LIJ ...I 
cs: 
(.) 


...... 0 HIGH 71 HIGH 59 HIGH 73 HIGH 56 LOW 41 LOW 41 LOW 45 LOW 40 
Atlanta 70 I 44 Boston 68 I 42 Chicago 69 I 47 Denver 33 I 32 Houston 74 I 67 Los Angeles 75 /53 Minneapolis 72 I 50 New York 68 I 47 Philadelphia 71 I 44 Phoenix 78 /57 Seattle 55 /39 St. Louis 73 I 52 Tampa 82 162 Washington 70 I 46 

Friday, April 17, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page3 
'Road to Fondwa' shows positive side of Haiti 



Unveiling Ceremony for The Shirt 2009 
Freefood & drinks tvl1ile StLpplies last 
Featuring remarks by Lou Holtz Emcee Mike Collins • Officer Tim McCarthy, Indiana State Police 
The Shirt student discount only $11 with ND ID* 
*li1nit two shirts per Nl) student IIJ, one I D perperson 
For n1ore inforn1ation, visit theshirt.nd.edu 
' 



TODAY at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Festivities begin at 4:00 P.M. I Unveiling begips at 5:45 P.M. 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Justin Brandon, the director and producer of the docu­mentary "The Hoad to Fondwa," said he wants to show viewers the positive side of Haiti, one of the poorest countries in the western hemisphere. 
"A lot of people go into see­ing a film about Haiti and they think they're going to see really sad stuff," Brandon said. "This isn't that; it shows more of a hopeful message of the people of Fondwa, who have come together and are developing." 
"The Road to Fondwa" played at 6:30 p.m. and 8 
p.m. Thursday in the Montgomery Auditorium in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Brandon, who graduated from Notre Dame in 2004, said he and the other film­makers wanted to give view­ers a detailed view of life in Haiti when they made the film. 
"The goal of the documen­
tary is to give people in our audience the opportunity to travel to Haiti without actual­ly going there," Bmndon said. "It gives people an inside look and a close look at rural Haiti. I hope that when peo­ple see it, they are moved by the story." 
"The Road to Fondwa" tells the story of the people of the village of Fondwa and their involvement in developing the country. 
The people initiated proj­ects such as opening a bank to fund local businesses and teaching villagers how to manage money. The people also founded the University of Fondwa to promote education among teens and a health clinic to prevent disease. 
A street cleaner in Port-au­Prince said in the documen­tary that he hopes the city 
wil1  one  day be free of the  
garbage  that  litters  its  
streets.  

"In Haiti, there is a lot of trash," he said. "Do you see that in the United States? We have never been to the United States ... we would like Haiti 

to be beautiful like that too." 
The coalition of citizens that hope to promote development throughout Haiti was formed on April 24, 1988 and has been working ever since to improve the country, hoping that one day, the rest of the world will stop seeing Haiti in such a harsh light. 
"The international commu­nity devalues Haiti," one vil­lager said. "They don't give Haiti its true worth." 
Brandon said the citizens of Fondwa are aware that devel­opment is an ongoing process, but are optimistic that the improvements will continue. 
"We're still fighting so that we can live," another Fondwa resident said. "We hope that one day we may truly live well." 
The film took five weeks to shoot and about 18 months to edit. What began as 45 hours of footage was slowly trans­formed into a 37-minute doc­umentary. 
Brandon said proceeds from the film will go towards edu­cation in Haiti, and he hopes the documentary evokes a desire to get involved with the film with Notre Dame helping Haiti develop. graduates Brian McElroy and 

"We are hoping to raise Dan Schnorr. McElroy served funding for the University of as executive producer and Fondwa," Brandon said. "And Schnorr also worked as a we hope people will want to director. get involved after they see the film." Contact Irena Zajickova 
Brandon collaborated on at izajicko@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 17, 2009 


Keyes joins Terry's efforts 

ByJENN METZ News Writer 
Conservative political activist Alan Keyes joined anti-abortion activist Randall Terry on stage at the Hilton Garden Inn on Indiana 933 Thursday in what organizers called a "rally for life" and a "bat­tle for the heart and soul of Notre Dame." 
Over 100 people were in atten­dance to listen to the two speak in effort to cancel President Barack Obama's appearance as the principal speaker at the May 17 University Commencement exercises, as well as the confer­ring of an honorary Doctor of Laws degree on the pro-choice politician. 
Keyes, who will remain in town to participate in Terry's planned rallies this weekend, is a former diplomat who has run three times for president and has been nominated three times for the United States Senate. A long-time advocate of pro-life politics, Keyes, as a Republican, lost in the 2004 race challenging Obama for a bid in the United States Senate representing Illinois. 
Terry, anti-abortion activist and founder of Operation Rescue, has set up a temporary office in South Bend, and has committed himself to stopping the president from being honored at the University as part of what he called "the fight against child killing." 
"We are not here to entertain you," Terry, who appeared with 



llllY f)F SILI~NCI~ 
···~·

APRIL 17, 2009 

Please understand my reasons for not speaking today. I am participating in the Day of Silence, a national movement protesting the silence faced by lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and 
:; 
-~ 

their allies in schools. My deliberate silence echoes that silence, which 
* 
is caused by harassment, prejudice, and discrimination. I believe that ending the silence is the first step toward fighting these injustices. Think about the voices you are not hearing today. 

WHAT ABE YO(J GOING TO DO TO END THE SILENCE? 


The 2009 Day of Silence at Notre Dame i~ sponsored by: The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students • The Gender Relations Center The Universitv Counseline: Center • Student Government 
For more information, please visit our website at corecouncil.nd.edu 

his wife and four young children, told the crowd during his intro­duction for Keyes. "We are here to recruit you." 
Keyes, who was received with a standing ovation from the crowd, identified himself as being in a unique position as a black American and a Roman Catholic. 
"That the institution that still proposes to identify itself as a Catholic institution," he said, and University President Fr. John Jenkins would choose to invite President Obama to be honored at the Commencement, plays into what he deemed "the key moral issue of our time." 
Keyes said conferring an hon­orary degree on Obama because he is the President of the United States is a violation of Catholic belief because he is "deeply [ ... ] committed to abortion." 


"The great and egregious error," Keyes said, is the notion of honoring Obama as a symbol of black America. 
"That's a fraud, and it's being perpetrated on historic grounds and on historic proportions," he said. 
Describing abortion as the "key moral issue of our time," Keyes admonished Obama's stance on the protection of life, claiming the only thing the two men have in common is the color of their skin. 
The black community's recep­tiveness of Obama as a leader "validates the ugly premise of racism," he said, stating that as human beings, groups of people should not be identified by solely physical characteristics. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Chua speaks about global hyperpowers 
Yale professor discusses her thesis from new book 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
The Mongol, Persian and 17th-century Dutch Empires all have one thing in common, according to Professor Amy Chua of Yale Law School. All these empires can be classi­fied as hyperpowers. 
Chua used these specific empires as evidence to her thesis presented in her newest book "Day of Empire: how Hyperpowers Rise to Global Dominance -and Why They Fall" during a lecture titled " The Rise and Fall of Hyperpowers: Tolerance, Intolerance and Lessons for America" Thursday in Haggar Parlor. 
Chua introduced her lecture by reinforcing the definition and the rarity of hyperpowers throughout history. 
They are not just any empire, not just great powers, not even super powers, but the rare category of hyper­powers, which barely make up more than a handful in all of history, Chua said. 
In her thesis, she uses a very strict definition of hyper­power. 
According to Chua, the nation's economic and mili­tary powers must surpass those of other nations in the world in order for a nation to be defined as a hyperpower. 
"To be world dominant, a society has to be at the very forefront at the world's mili­tary and economic frontier," Chua said. "The world's best human capital at any given moment cannot be found in any one cultural group, reli­gion, or ethnicity." 
In her new book, Chua said she argues the important role of tolerance or ·intolerance in the rise and fall of hyperpow­ers. 
Every hyperpower was strikingly tolerant and plural­istic in the rising, at least by the standard of their time, and their decline coincides with intolerance, Chua said. 
In the context of her thesis, tolerance does not hold the same meaning as what we usually associate with the term "tolerance," Chua said. 
Tolerance is the degree of freedom in which people are. permitted to co-exist. It's a relative concept, meaning that the nation is more toler­ant than its rivals, but now that it is tolerant to an ideal standard, she said. 
Chua said she believes tol­erance is necessary, but not solely sufficient, for world dominance if a nation aspires to be a hyperpower. 
She continued with specific examples of empires she names as hyperpowers: Persia, Rome, Mongol, the 17th-century Dutch, Great Britain and the United States. 
Chua's examples outline two main methods of becoming a superpower -through land expansion as the Persian Empire, or through commer­cial expansion as the Dutch Empire. 
Chua said the problem that as a democratic power, the United States faces some of the same problems as these hyperpowers. 
"The United States faces the same fundamental problem faced by every hyperpower in history: the problem of glue," she said. "Only ancient Rome solved this problem, which helps to explain its longevity." 
Rome turned large numbers of common men into Roman citizens. By extending this citizenship, Rome managed to 'Romanize' its territories by creating common unity and loyalty. 
The United States can do no such thing, Chua said. 
The United States does not want to make foreign nations its citizens, especially as a democratic nation, Chua said. 
The great mistake lies in assuming that the spread of American ideas and culture would . be enough to Americanize others, Chua said. 
"Wearing Yankees baseball cap and drinking a Coke does not turn a Palestinian into an American," Chua said. 
Though there is talk of China taking the United States' position as the world hyperpower, Chua does not believe this will happen. 
"If my thesis is correct, China cannot become a hyper­power because it is a quintes­sentially, ethnically based nation," she said. "It is not able to pull in the world's best and brightest. 
"China is a great test case for my thesis. It has 1.3 bil­lion people," Chua said. "My thesis says that that fact alone will prevent it from becoming a hyperpower. The worlds' best human capital will not be found in any one ethnic group." 
This may suit China just fine; it may not want to be a hyperpower, Chua said. Even if China doesn't become a hyperpower, the United States could lose its hyperpower sta­tus. We could go back to a world with just superpowers, she said. 
While the United States is currently facing several issues, Chua said she remains optimistic about its hyper­power status. 
"There is no other country better suited than the United States to be a hyperpower. 
"Where else will the world's best and brightest go?" Chua said. 
The event was co-sponsored by the Center For Women's Intercultural Leadership, and the departments of Business Administration and Economics, Political Scienee, Justice Education, History and Intercultural Studies. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO1@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, April 17, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Bolivian police uncover plot 
LA PAZ, Bolivia -Police say they broke up an international band of assassins plotting to kill President Evo Morales during a half-hour shootout in eastern Bolivia on Thursday. 
Three suspects were killed and two arrest­ed in the lowland city of Santa Cruz, the cen­ter of Morales' political opposition, after they resisted arrest, exchanged gunfire and deto­nated a grenade that blew out the windows of a hotel, police said. There were no other victims. 
Morales said he ordered the attack after receiving word of the plot against him and Vice President Alvaro Garcia. 
Suicide bomber attacks Iraqi base 
BAGHDAD -A suicide bomber struck an Iraqi military base Thursday in an attack that Iraqi officials first said killed 16 sol­diers but later maintained no one died but the attacker. 
The conflicting death counts came at a time when Iraqi officials are under increas­ing pressure to stop attacks. Last week, angry Iraqis in Baghdad hurled stones at police and soldiers because they failed to stop a car bombing. 
The suicide attacker wore an Iraqi mili­tary uniform in Thursday's bombing -the fourth major attack on Iraqi security forces in a week. That raised troubling questions about insurgents' ability to infiltrate the country's armed forces or to receive help from inside their ranks. 
U.S. officials have based their hopes for Iraq's future on building a professional Iraqi military capable of securing the country as the U.S. draws down its forces this year. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

WTC towers may be delayed 
NEW YORK -Construction of several ground zero office towers could be put ofT for decades because of the failing real estate market, the site's owners said Thursday, cit­ing an analysis that projected one skyscraper might not be built and occupied until 35 years after Sept. 11. 
Developer Larry Silverstein and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey have been talking on and off for months about rewriting a 3-year-old agreement that gives the developer rights to build three out of five towers planned at the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attack site. 
N.Y. bill would allow gay marriage 
NEW YORK -Gov. David Paterson intro­duced a bill Thursday to legalize same-sex mar­riage in New York, comparing the effort to the fight for the abolition ofslavery. 
Paterson, whose job approval rating has plunged below 30 percent, is making a political gamble that he can ride the momentum ofother states that have recently allowed the practice, and it's unclear how the legislation will play in New York. 
The proposal is the same bill the Democratic­controlled state Assembly passed in 2007 before it died in the Senate, where the Republican majority kept it from going to a vote. Democrats now control the Senate, but opponents are vow­ing to make sure this one fails, as well. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Gary police chief sentenced 
HAMMOND, Ind. -A former Gary police chief has been sentenced to nearly 3% years in federal prison for using unreasonable force in kicking a handcuffed suspect he believed had rubbed his house. 
Sixty-six-year-old Thomas Houston was convicted last fall on one count of violating the suspect's civil rights during a June 2007 raid prosecutors said he orchestrated after a burglary at his home. He was cleared of punching a woman and carrying out an ille­gal search and wrongful arrests, and a for­mer deputy chief and sergeant were acquit­ted of all charges. 
OAofficialsnotchargedfor waterboarding 
No prosecution for operatives who used 'harsh' methods; secret men1os released 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Seeking to move beyond what he calls a "a dark and painful chapter in our history," President Barack Obama said Thursday that CIA officials who used harsh interrogation tactics during the Bush administration will not be prosecuted. 
The government also released four memos long held secret by the Bush administration in which its lawyers approved in exten­sive and often graphic detail the tough interrogation methods used against 28 ter­ror suspects, the fullest and now complete government accounting of the techniques. The rough tactics range from waterboarding -simulated drowning -to using a plastic neck collar to slam detainees into walls. 
Even as they exposed new details of the interrogation program, Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder, offered the first definitive assurance that those CIA otli­cials are in the clear, as long as their actions were in line with the legal advice at the time. 
Obama said in his state­ment and a separate letter sent directly to CIA employ­Justice Department," Holder nal acts. detainees naked for long ees that the nation must pro­said. "Prosecuting violations of periods, keeping them in a tect their identity "as vigilant­As current CIA Director the law is not about laying painful standing position for ly as they protect our securi-Locn Panetta put it in a mes­blame for the past, it's about long periods, and depriving ty." sage to employees: "CIA ensuring that those crimes them of solid food. Other tac­
"We have been through a responded, as duty requires." don't happen again," she tics included using a plastic dark and painful chapter in The CIA has acknowledged said. neck collar to slam detainees our history," the president using waterboarding, a form The memos produced by into walls, keeping the said. "But at a time of great of simulated drowning, on the Justice Department's detainee's cell cold for long challenges and disturbing three high-level terror Office of Legal Counsel in periods, and beating and disunity, nothing will be detainees in 2002 and 2003, 2002 and 2005 were kicking the detainee. Sleep­gained by spending our time with the permission of the released to meet a court­deprivation, prolonged and energy laying blame for White House and the Justice approved deadline in a law­shackling, and threats to a the past." Department. Former CIA suit against the government detainee's family were also 
Holder told the CIA that the Director Michael Hayden said in New York by the American used. government would provide waterboarding has not been Civil liberties Union. Interrogators were told not free legal representation to used since, but some human In addition to detailing indi­to allow a prisoner's body CIA employees in any legal rights groups have urged vidual techniques, one memo temperature or caloric intake proceeding or congressional Obama to hold CIA employ­also specifically authorized a to fall below a certain level, investigation related to the ees accountable for what method for combining multi­because either could cause program and would repay they, and many Obama offi­ple methods, a practice permanent damage, said any financial judgment. cials, say was torture. human rights advocates senior administration offi­
"It would be unfair to pros­Stacy Sullivan of Human argue crosses the line into cials. They discussed the ecute dedicated men and Rights Watch said Obama is torture even if any indhddual memos on condition of women working to protect "dead wrong" to say that methods does not. anonymity to more fully America for conduct that was nothing would be gained by The methods authorized in describe the president's deci­
• sanctioned in advance by the examining the past for crimi-them include keeping sion-making process. 

RUSSIA 


Medvedev ends Chechen operations 
tered the region in the last 15 years -said 21-year-old student Isa Musayev.
Associated Press 

involved curfews and limits on civilian "We spent those years in constant fear 
GHOZNY -Chechens danced in the air flights and limited access for jour­for our lives." streets and waved flags to celebrate nalists, among other measures. Kadyrov, who has steadily strength­Russia's decision Thursday to end its Its cancellation boosted the authori­ened his grip on power since his elec­decadelong counterterrorism opera­ty of the region's Kremlin-backed tion in 2007, had long pushed for an tion in the war-weary southern President Ramzan Kadyrov, who end to counterterrorism operation in region. joined several thousand people order to reduce federal military pres­
The order by President Dmitry Thursday in dancing in a square in ence in Chechnya and remove restric­!Yiedvedev paves the way for the with­central Grozny. tions which hampered trade. drawal of tens of thousands of federal Motorists blared horns and waved "This is a victory over evil which we 
troops, whose presence has been Chechen and Russian flags from car have fought over the last 15 years," hugely unpopular amid allegations of windows, as schools and a university Kadyrov said in a statement. "A widespread abuses against civilians. interrupted classes to let students to peaceful and prosperous Chechen The counterterrorism operation -join celebrations. Republic in the united family of peo­launched at the start of the second of ''I'm very happy that the horrible ples of Russia -that is our strategic 
two separatist wars that have bat-years we saw will never come back," course for the future." 
Friday, April 17, 2009 

page 6 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS 
Alumni 
continued from page 1 
The site, www.replacejenk­ins.com, asks alumni and other donors to sign a petition with contact information and the total dollar amount they plan to withhold. 
"AIthough we love Notre Dame, our conscience requires that we withhold all financial support from our University until such time as Father Jenkins is replaced as Notre Dame's President with some­one who will be more loyal to the teaching of the Catholic Church," the site states. 
DiFranco said a group of seven -six alumni and one supporter of the University ­decided to set up the site to ascertain how much Jenkins will cost Notre Dame. 
"We thought, 'why don't we tally that sum and show it to the leaders of the University,"' he said. 
DiFranco said he could not divulge the sum alumni have pledged to withhold so far, but he said he believes the amount will be substantial. 
"The figure grows by the hour," he said. "We are in communication with some very, very significant donors." 
The amount will be released when it "reaches a balance that is newsworthy," he said. 
DiFranco said the group is in the process of following up with the people who have sub­mitted sums of money they plan to withhold to ensure there are no "bogus amounts." 
"This is our way of saying 

we will not sit idle," he said. "It does affect our ability to give money in good con­science." 
University spokesman Dennis Brown declined to comment on the Web site in particular, but said the University has received both positive and negative feed­back. 
"We've known since before it was announced ... that there would be people that would be opposed to the invitation and people in support of the invita­tion, and we've received both responses," he said. 
Brown also declined to com­ment on the University's rela­tionship with its donors. 
The Web site states that the group supports academic free­dom, but DiFranco said he believes Obama delivering the Commencement address does not fall under that category. 
He said Jenkins' statement that the invitation offers a chance for dialogue with the president does not apply because the speech is a "monologue." 
DiFranco said many alumni have been upset about several of Jenkins' past decisions as well, such as allowing the pro­duction of the "Vagina Monologues" on campus. 
The site states that signers of the petition will continue to withhold donations to the University until Jenkins is replaced. 
Aaron Steiner contributed to this report. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbucldey@nd.edu 


Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574) 234-2436 


I Seamon 
continued from page 1 
Fr. Jenkins in the past both he and I and everyone here is keenly aware and extremely proud of the fact that Notre Dame is very spe­cial place," Seamon said. "It leaves an impression on peo­ple when they visit here." 
He said his primary responsibility is "to work with the various depart­ments on campus to create a more coordinated effort on 
how  we  serve  the  Notre  
Dame community on  game­ 
day weekends."  
Jenkins  has  also  given  

Seamon the responsibility of implementing several rec­ommendations given by the ad hoc committee as soon as possible, as well as begin­ning to employ other recom­mendations in the near future. 

Hogwarts 
continued from page 1 
ing hall in the Harry Potter movies," Lau said. 
Paying tribute to the book and movie series, the east side of South Dining Hall was converted into the Hogwarts Great Hall. 
The room featured four long rows of tables with candles ­duplicating the effect of the four tables in the series -and a vari­ety of Harry Potter signs were hung from the ceiling. 
Upon entering the dining hall, student" were sorted into one of the four houses of Hogwarts. However, students could make their own seating choice at these Slytherin, Havenclaw, Huffiepufl' or Gryfl:indor-themed tables. 
"I knew when I sat down at Slytherin table that I wa" home," senior Drnw Reynolds said. 
The serving area of the dining hall was transformed into the settings from the series, such a" the Hogwarts Express and Platform 9 314. 
The event also featured food from the wizarding world. 
There was a potions station, a herbology station and a special center station with Harry Potter­inspired desserts and treats. These included jam doughnuts, chocolate Gateau, pumpkin pie 

Wheel 
continued from page 1 
he'd ever had. 
"It was the weirdest thing I've ever done," Normandin said. "There were freaks galore -people saying it was their fifth audition and stuff like that." 
Normandin auditioned, but did not hear back from the show's producers until this February. 
"I never got a letter so I kind of forgot about it," he said. "Then in February, I got a call asking me to come represent Notre Dame for the show's College Week." 
Normandin flew out to California for the taping sever­al weeks ago. All five episodes were taped on the same day, and each took about 25 min­utes to film. 
He said the studio was differ­ent in person then it appeared on television. 
"The studio is small, not big like it looks on TV," 
Seamon said that he hopes most of the changes will be in place by next fall. 
"Our goal will be to imple­ment as much of [the report's suggestions] as we can over the summer," he said. 
An important part of his job is improving how infor­mation is distributed to visi­tors, Seamon said. 
"We want to enhance our communications and inter­actions with our fans, and provide the best experience possible," he said. "This involves providing people with all the information nec­essary so that they can experience all of the differ­ent opportunities football weekends provide." 
Seamon said providing a safe environment for all visi­tors is a priority. 
"We want to create an environment that is safe and hospitable to everyone that comes on campus, regard­
less if they are a fan or a guest with the opposing team," he said. 
Seamon said that he antic­ipates the positive gameday atmosphere present in past years to continue and improve based on the rec­ommendations of the ad hoc committee. 
"My hope is that the stu­dents and all of our fans will continue to enjoy Notre Dame and all that we have to offer on our home football weekends," he said. 
Seamon said he is pleased with his new responsibilities and is looking forward to taking on his new duties. 
"l'm excited about it," he said. ''I'm excited about the University going forward in this initiative." 
Aaron Steiner contributed to this report. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 


and treacle tart'i. 
"Once I saw the pumpkin pie, 1 knew this wa" going to be good," senior Adrienne Murphy said. 
Soundtracks from the Harry Potter movies were played throughout the dining hall, and many studertts came to dinner dressed as their favorite charac­ters from the books and movies. 
"I borrowed a friend's bathrobe and some novelty glasses and fit right in at the Gryflindor table," sophomore Bobby Powers said. 
Normandin said. "But the wheel is a lot heavier than I thought it would be. It's small­er than it looks and about eight times as heavy. There were people that couldn't spin it right away and had to keep trying." 
Normandin said he enjoyed meeting the show's hosts and the students he competed against. 
"1 didn't meet Pat Sajak until the taping, but I met Vanna [White] before that," he said. "She's 52 years old and smok­ing hot." 
According to Normandin, his friends were very excited when thPy discovered that he would appear on the show, although they did discourage him from saying hello to them on air. 
"(My roommates] told me I couldn't give shout-outs to them," Normandin said. "So instead, I yelled 'friendship' instead of 'big money' when I spun the wheel. Hopefully they'll hear it when it airs." 
Normandin competed against two female students, 
"I think I even saw Father Jenkins dressed as Dumbledore," sophomore Danny Osburn said. 
Many students expressed a desire to see the night turn into an annual event. 
"I would love to see this hap­pen again next year," Osburn said. "It wa" a great way to make a Thursday night dinner at South Dining Hall fun and interesting." 
Contact Casey Kenney at ckenney@nd.edu 
one from Michigan State 
University and one from 
Baylor University in Texas. He 
said that both were worthy 
competition. 
"The two girls I went up 
against, I could tell they were 
both pretty smart," Normandin 
said. "I went in thinking I was­
n't going to win anything." 
As a result, Normandin 
made it his main goal to have 
fun and enjoy the experience. 
He got third place in his 
episode, which will air tonight 
at 7 p.m. on local Channel 12. 
Despite coming in third, 
Normandin still ended up win­
ning a substantial amount of 
money. 
"I tried to have fun with it 
and not take it too seriously," 
Normandin said. "I just kind of 
kept my head down, bought 
some vowels, and came out a 
winner." 
He plans to use his winnings 
as extra spending money when 
he studies abroad in London in . the fall. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 


Friday, April 17, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 8,125.43 +95.81 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,914 85 847 3,470,587,707 
AMEX 1,413.11 +4.89 NASDAQ 1,670.44 +43.64 
·.·~~·-·:·-::.
~NYSE 

5,454.27 +69.30 S&P 500 865.30 +13.24 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,755.26 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 4,052.98 +84.58 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) +1.01 +0.04 4.01 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) ·0.96 ~0.10 10.34 S&P DEP RECEIPTS {SPY) +1.47 +1.25 86.50 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +1.98 +0.18 9.04 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.57 +0.071 2.83 13-WEEK BILL -10.71 -0.015 0.12 30-YEAR BOND +1.78 +0.065 3.71 5-YEAR NOTE +4.19 +0.071 1.77 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.73 49.98 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -13.70 879.80 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +0.20 87.00 
Exchange Rates YEN 99.5500 EURO 1.3185 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2079 BRffiSH POUND 1.4927 
IN BRIEF 

DirecTV, Comcast fined $3.2 million 
WASHINGTON -Satellite television provider DirecTV Inc. and cable company Comcast Corp. will pay out a combined $3.2 million to settle claims that they broke the law by placing phone calls to people who had asked the companies not to call them again. It's the second time DirecTV has been hit with such a fine. 
The Federal Trade Commission made the announcement Thursday. 
The FTC said DirecTV agreed to pay $2.3 million to settle charges that it violated do­not-call provisions of a restriction called the Telemarketing Sales Hule by having a tete­marketer call people who had specifically asked DirecTV to put them on the compa­ny's internal do-not-call list. In 2005, DirecTV settled FTC charges that telemar­keters called households listed on the national Do Not Call registry and paid $5.3 million to the government. 
Comcast wil1 pay out $900,000, the FTC said, to settle charges that it called people who had specifically asked the company to stop calling them. The agency said it's a vio­lation of that telemarketing rule, which pro­hibits such calls. 
$40 million of fuel stolen from army 
ALEXANDHIA, Va. -A former Army con­tractor convicted of stealing $40 million worth of fuel from a military base in Iraq is helping authorities in a global search for other suspects in the case, according to court records. 
One suspect has already been arrested in the Philippines and now awaits indictment from a federal grand jury in Virginia. 
Lee W. Dubois of Lexington, S.C.. pleaded guilty last y<>ar to theft of government prop­erty and faef~s up to I 0 years in prison. A sentencing IH~aring scheduled Thursday in Virginia was postponed. 
The thefts occurred in 2007 and 2008 from Camp Liberty in Baghdad. Dubois admitt<>d that lw and othPrs stoln mon• than 10 miliion gallons of jet fuel and diesel fuel from the base. They used fraudulent paper­work so that fupl trucks could drive in and withdraw tens of thousands of gallons a day. 

Signs imply recession may be easing 
Recipients of jobless benefits grow while encouraging indicators emerge 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Housing construction unexpectedly plunged, the number of people receiving jobless benefits grew and JPMorgan Chase & Co. said its first-quarter profit dropped compared with last year. 
That was the bad news. But those same reports Thursday included some sil­ver linings suggesting the recession may be easing. 
The pace of new-home construction seems to be nearing a bottom. First-time jobless benefit claims fell more than expected for the second straight week. And JPMorgan's profits were larger than analysts had ' expected. In the past week, 'I 
' 
two other banks. Wells Fargo & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., issued positive earnings reports, too. 
All told, growing evidence indicates the economy may be stabilizing. 
"The economy is still very weak, but there are some encouraging signs that sup­port cautious optimism." Dennis Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said in a speech slowing of the pace of eco­The Commerce ing. The Federal Reserve Thursday. nomic decline compared Department said construc­reported Wednesday that 
The Commerce with even worse conditions tion of new homes and the number of people shop­Department said construc­earlier this year. Recovery is apartments fell to a season­ping for homes is beginning tion of new homes and still at least months away, ally adjusted annual rate of to rise, leading to a scat­apartments fell 11 percent they said. 510,000 units in March. It tered pickup in sales. in March. But economists "What would have been was the second lowest pace Separately, the Labor noted that the drop was bad news last September is on records that go back 50 Department said its tally of driven by a steep fall in new good news today," said years. initial unemployment claims apartment building. The Diane Swonk, chief econo­Applications for building dropped to a seasonally construction of new single­mist at Chicago-based permits, considered a good adjusted 610,000 from a family homes matched Mesirow Financial. barometer of future activity, revised 663,000 the previ­February's leve I and On Wall Street, stocks also fell in March to an ous week. That was far remained above January's rose, partly in response to annual rate of 513,000 below analysts' expecta­record low. the economic news. The units. But that suggests tions of 655,000 and the 
The consistency in home Dow Jones industrial aver­housing starts will remain lowest level since late construction, even as the age closed up 95 points, stable at around 500,000 in January. economy shrank, signals while broader indices also April, economists said, Initial unemployment that single-family home rose more than 1 percent. albeit near record low lev­claims reflect the pace of building "is now at or near Both President Barack els. layoffs by companies and a bottom," Robert Dye, sen­Obama and Federal Heserve "Hight now, stable looks are considered a timely. if ior economist at PNC Chairman Ben Bernanke good." Dye said. volatile, measure of the Financial Services Group, have mentioned some Low housing prices and economy. While declining, wrote in a note to clients. recent signs of progress this record-low mortgage rates they remain much higher 
Economists cautioned that week, while adding that the may finally be spurring sus­than a year ago, when the figures largely reflect a recession is far from over. tained interest in home buy-claims stood at 369,000. 


Obamaplans high-speed rail network 
"This is not some faneiful, pic-in-the­Initially, regional transportation offices 
Associated Press 

sky vL'iion of the future," Obama said dur­will compete for the $8 billion included in 
ing an event at the Ei'ienhower Ex<'Cutive the $787 billion economic stimulus 
WASHINGTON -President Bara<~k Oflice Building, whieh is adjacent to the spending package for high-speed rail. Obama on Thursday outlined plans for a White I louse. "It is happening right now. bolstered by $1 billion a year for five high-speed rail network he said would It's been happening for decades. The years mquested in the federal budget. change the way Americans travel, draw­problem is it's been happening else­The $8 billion is part of $(>4 billion in ing comparisons to the 1950s creation of where, not ht~re." the stimulus package for roads, bridges, the interstate highway system. The United States trails other devel­rail and transit. what Obama called "the 
Obama wa" careful to point out that his opnd countries in developing high-speed most sweeping investment in our infra­plan was only a down payment on an rail. The Spani'lh can trawl the 386·milcs structure since President Eisenhower ambitious plan that. if realized, could from Madrid to BarcPlona at spePds aver­built the Interstate Highway System in connect Chicago and St. Louis, Orlando aging almost 150 miles pPr hour. Japan's the 1950s." and Miami, Portland and Seattle and Shinkansen links il'i major cities at Sp<'eds Obama said the first round of money dozens of other metropolitan areas averaging 180 mph and France's TGV would go to upgrading and increasing around the country with high-speed train averages about 133 mph in carrying speeds on existing lines where people trains. pas..'!engers from Paris to l.yon. eould quickly be put to work. The second 
Ther4:''s no guarantee that the nation The only U.S. rail service that meets the and third phases would fixus on high­has the political will -Congress has Federal Hailroad Administration's 110 speed rail planning and money to jump­often tried to rPduce support fot Amtrak mph threshold to qualify as high-speed start eorridors not yet ready lbr construc­-ur the hundreds of billion" of dollars rail is Amtrak's 9-year-old Acela Express tion. The Transportation DPpartment is to and decades it would take to build a eom­route connPcting Boston to Washington, announce first-round grant.." before the prehen-,ive fast rail system. D.C. end of the summer. 
Friday, April 17, 2009 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Bollman 
continued from page 1 
"I want to be a doctor not to go into research or teach­ing, but to focus on one-on­one interaction with 
patients," she said. ''I'm really interested in practicing pri­mary care med­icine in under­served areas either in states or likely inter­nationally." 
Bollman did her undergrad­uate research for the Notre Dame Haiti 

"I know my class is full ofincredibly engaged and accomplished people, and I am just one of them.·· 
Brennan Bollman valedictorian 
Kollman said Bollman has worked exten­sively with the 
C.S.C and is committed to social justic~ both locally and globally. 
"She's just really an out­standing example of the kind of student Notre Dame is 
Program working to elimi­glad to receive and benefit nate the disease that causes from and also help produce," Elephantitis, and she said she he said. got the chance to spend seven Bollman said her four years 
weeks in the country imple­menting her research dur­ing the summer before senior year. 
"I  love  the  
country."  she  
said.  "It  

absolutely fas­cinates me." 
Bollman said she would like to go back to 

..In the midst ofa really keen intellectual ability, she·s got a strong moral compass. •· 
Fr. Paul Kollman professor of Theology 
Haiti in the 
future as a doctor. 
Theology professor Fr. Paul Kollman taught Bollman in the theology class, Christianity in Africa, and he said she is an excellent stu­dent. 

"In the midst of a really keen intellectual ability, she's got a strong moral compass," he said. "I think she's really put her education at the serv­ice of the world's needy in the United States and inter­nationally, especially in Haiti and Cambodia." 
at Notre Dame have given her an awareness of the "tough problems" that her generation faces. 
"l haven't learned how to solve anything in my four 
.. 
years h ere, she said. "But I have learned 
that there are very important issues that I will need to address either directly through my work, or indirect­ly by being a global citizen." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
the student group, ND Response asked Jenkins to affirm the University's commit­ment to pro-life causes before they met, including requests to make a public "promise" not to allow practices offensive to the pro-life cause and appoint a pro-life ombudsperson. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Jenkins withdrew his invitation to meet with the group because "they issued a set of demands as a precondi­tion to meeting." 
The group also requested Jenkins change the terms of the meeting in their reply, namely that it be open to all coalition members and that a transcript and video of the meeting be made available after its conclusion. Jenkins originally requested that the meeting be private and limited to 25 students, Brown said. in order to make the meeting "more productive." 
Mary Daly, a leader within ND Response and the author of the reply to Jenkins' invitation, said that the terms they set forth in their response to Jenkins may have been misin­terpreted. 
Brown told The Observer that the administration "did not think it was appropriate to respond ... with a set of demands as preconditions to meet." 
Daly said the Jetter did not use the words "demand" or "precondition," and stated the misunderstanding "might just 




apartmenls avalta~e for 200g.2010 :: walk!ng distance to campus :: 2-bedroom, 2-bath with 990± SF :: free intemet ::washer. dryer and dishwasher:: centra! air conditioning :: large ba!cony :: cathedra! ceilings 
-Call Cnristina at ~1~·l~l·1~l~ to scneaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@nastaaiumclu~.com 

be a problem of language." 
The letter ND Response sent to Jenkins read: "rWJe have certain requests that we respectfully make of you in advance of any meeting with you." 
Also in the letter, the group asked, "that you (Jenkins) promise to take the following actions," followed by two requests. 
The first was that the admin­istration "publicly makes the institutional and permanent promise that the University of Notre Dame will not engage in, promote or allow practices offensive to life," noting research initiatives. 
The second was the University "will appoint a pro­life ombudsperson at the level of associate provost to ensure that appropriate attention is paid to life issues at the begin­ning of life in both teaching and research." 
Daly said she was "sorry" that the letter's requests were interpreted as preconditions to meeting. 
"They were respectful requests, and that's how we wanted them to be read, not as demands at all," she said. "It was our intention to state things that we hoped to dis­cuss." 
Brown earlier told The Observer Jenkins would be "happy to discuss" the requests made in the letter, but indicated that they were interpreted as preconditions. 
ND Hesponse is still open to meeting with Jenkins, accord­ing to Daly. Brown said any further discussion about meet­ings between the Jenkins and the group would be private. 
The original invitation was extended "in the spirit of open dialogue to talk about this issue," Brown said. 
"LFr. Jenkins] wanted to hear face to face from the students their concerns and to be able to in turn speak with them about why he made the invita­tion," Brown said. 
Daly said she was "pleasant­ly surprised" when she, on behalf of the coalition, first received Jenkins' invitation to meet. 
She said the requests set forth in her reply to the invita­tion were made "so we could have a confirmation from Fr. Jenkins and the administra­tion" of their commitment to the University's Catholic mis­sion and the pro-life cause, which Daly said stems from that mission. 
Daly said the first request ­a public promise not to allow practices offensive to life ­would "be a reaffirmation of what's already there," refer­ring to the University's Catholic mission. 
The second request -the appointment of a pro-life ombudsperson -stemmed from Daly's belief that the majority of pro-life initiatives on campus are not initiated by the administration. Daly com­pared creating such a position to the emphasis the University put on sustainability by creat­ing a dedicated office for that issue. 
"Seeing as there's the sexual assault ombudsperson, and the Office of Sustainability, ... we rwould like] a designated per­son or role that paid attention to these specific issues,.. Daly said. 
Daly said all the requests included in the letter were meant to be "constructive and positive." 
ND Response, which stated "we pledge ourselves to acts of witness" in an earlier press release, has organized other activities including a Prayer Hally, which took place on April 5, and an ongoing cam­paign to pray one million rosaries "for a conversion of heart for President Obama." 
The group is also promoting the first March for Life on Notre Dame's campus, which takes place today beginning at 6 p.m. at the Grotto. The event is sponsored by Notre Dame Hight to Life and the campus Knights of Columbus council. 
According to organizer Jeff Tisak, Charles Hice, professor emeritus of the Notre Dame Law School, will speak at the event. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 
2 1/2 Baths 
Free Internet 
Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking 
Located Close to Notre Dame 

Only $350 per month, per student! 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes~ apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574) 234-2436 

....................... 
Friday, April 17, 2009 page 9 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Transgender woman killed 
Prosecutor insists that accused killer knew true gender in advance 
Associated Press 
GREELEY, Colo. -An accused killer knew for at lea'it 36 hours that an 18-year-old transgender woman was biologically male and beat her to death with a fire extinguisher because he didn't like that, a prosecutor insisted Thursday. 
But an attorney for Allen Andrade said the case is about the woman's deception and Andrade's reaction to that decep­tion, not whether Angie Zapata's lifestyle was right or wrong. 
"This girl that he had just spent the last day with, was in fact a man, and Allen snapped," defense attorney Bradley Martin declared in opening statements. 
Andrade, 32, would face a mandatory life sentence if con­victed of first-degree murder and between eight and 24 years in prison if convicted of second­degree murder. Other charges against him include bias-motivat­ed crime, which carries three more years, and habitual offend­er, which could mean decades more in pri'ion. 
Prosecutor Brandi Nieto said Andrade killed Zapata because she was transgender and "he didn't like that." 
Nieto told jurors that Andrade 

Mystery donor gives $45 million 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa -A mys­tery is unfolding in the world of college fundraising: During the past few weeks, at least nine universities have received gifts totaling more than $45 million, and the schools had to promise not to try to find out the giver's identity. 
One school went so far as to check with the IRS and the Department of Homeland Security just to make sure a $1.5 million gift didn't come from illegal sources. 
"In my last 28 years in fundraising ... this is the first time I've dealt with a gift that the institution didn't know who the donor is," said Phillip D. Adams, vice president for uni­versity advancement at Norfolk State University, which received $3.5 million. 

and Zapata communicated near­ly 700 times via text message, cell phone and computer between July 12 and July 16 as Zapata was apparently searching for a roommate. She said Andrade did not make a snap decision but rather decided to kill Zapata after the pair spent hours in Zapata's tiny one-bedroom apartment. 
Andrade could have walked away once he learned Zapata was biologically male, Nieto said. 
Martin, who repeatedly referred to Zapata as "Justin," said the deception started with Zapata's profile on a social net­working site that said she was a straight female. 
The two met July 15 and spent the day together. Martin said. Zapata's clothing and other details in her apartment indicat­ed she was female, the attorney said. 
Andrade told investigators that Zapata performed oral sex on him but wouldn't let him touch her, according to an arrest affi­davit. 
Left alone in the apartment, Andrade noticed photographs that Jed him to question Zapata's gender. When he confronted her, she answered: "I am all woman," according to the affidavit. 
Nieto showed jurors partial transcripts of tape-recorded jail calls in which Andrade allegedly told his girlfriend that he "snapped" and that "gay things need to die." 
In another transeript, Andrade downplays the slaying. "It's not like I went up to a school teacher and shot her in the head, or killed a straight law-abiding citi­zen," he said in the transcript. 
Martin said the jail calls were taken out of context as Andrade joked with his girlfriend about a crime he knew he didn't commit. 
Andrade was arrested July 30, nearly two weeks after Zapata's sisters discovered her body under a blanket in her apart­ment. Andrade told investigators that he struck Zapata twice in the head with a fire extinguisher and thought he had "killed it" before striking her again as she struggled to get up, the arrest affidavit said. 
Andrade is believed to be the first person tried for a hate crime under the sexual orientation sec­tion of Colorado's hate crime law, according to the New York and Los Angeles-based Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation. Colorado is one of 11 states to have such designa­tions in their laws. 
Gov't officials disagree with extremist report 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Civil liberties 
officials at the Homeland 
Security Department did not 
agree with some of the language 
in a controversial report on 
right-wing extremists, but the 
agency issued the report any­
way. 
The intelligence assessment issued to law enforcement last week said some military veter­ans could be susceptible to extremist recruiters or commit lone acts of violence. That prompted angry reactions from some lawmakers and veterans' groups. 
Homeland Security spokes­woman Amy Kudwa said the report was issued before offi­cials resolved problems raised by the agency's civil rights divi­sion. Kudwa would not specify what language raised the con­cerns. 
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano defended the report Thursday, but she said the definition of right-wing extremism that was included in a footnote should be changed. 
In the report, right-wing extremism was defined as hate­motivated groups and move­ments, such as hatred of certain religions. racial or ethnic groups. "It may include groups and individuals that are dedicat­ed to a single issue, such as opposition to abortion or immi­gration," the report said. 
"If there's one part of that report I would rewrite, in the word-smithing, Washington-esc that goes on after the fact, it would be that footnote," Napolitano said Thursday on Fox News. 
The same definition was included in the agency's March 26 draft report on domestic extremism. Both reports were marked "For Official Use Only." The department said the draft has been recalled and is being edited before it is sent to state 
Employee wounds one, kills another, himself 
Associated Press 
LONG BEACH, Calif. -A hospi­tal employee shot another employee to death, critically wounded another and then killed himself Thursday, police said. 
Police Chief Anthony Batts said the gunfire erupted just before noon at Long Beach Memorial Medical Center. 
Batts would not identify those involved but said all were male. He said the motive remained under investigation but noted the violence came amid a flurry of recent shootings in the country. 
"This is a trend of active shoot­ers that you have seen nation­wide," Batl'i said at a news con­ference. "This is becoming a national trend, probably because of the tension that's going on in our society today." 
Batts said officers responding to the shooting found one victim inside the hospital and then dis­covered a second victim outside, on the north side of the hospital outside the emergency room. Both were taken t.o the emer­gency room; one was dead and the other was critical, he said. 
and local law enforcement offi­
cials. 
The report on right-wing extremists cites the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing by mili­tary veteran Timothy McVeigh as one instance of a veteran becoming a domestic terrorist. 
Several lawmakers, the American Legion and Vets for Freedom took offense to the intelligence review. The Veterans of Foreign Wars defended it as an assessment, not an accusation. 
Napolitano said, "We do not mean to suggest that veterans as a whole are at risk of becoming violent extremists." 
She also said: "I apologize for that offense. It was certainly not intended." 
The top Republican on the House intelligence committee, Michigan's Pete Hoekstra, has asked the director of national intelligence's ombudsman to investigate the Homeland Security report for "unsubstanti­ated conclusions and political bias." 
The senior Democrat of the House committee with oversight of the department said the report raises privacy and civil liberty issues. "This report appears to have blurred the line between violent belief, which is constitutionally protected, and violent action, which is not," Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., wrote in a letter to Napolitano. 
The department's definition of left-wing extremism in the March 26 draft report includes a reference to violence, stating these groups that embrace anti­capitalist, communist or socialist beliefs seek "to bring about change through violent revolu­tion rather than through estab­lished political processes." 
These reports are part of the department's routine analysis of intelligence information to give to law enforcement agencies guidance on possible security threats. 
The suspect was found dead 
near the second victim, he said. 
"It is with a really heavy heart that I say we lost two members of our employee family and a third is critically injured," said Diana Hendel, the hospital's chief execu­tive officer. "Our first priority was to ensure that our patients were safe and well cared for and I can assure that our patients are well cared for and are completely safe." 
Hendel said the victims' families were receiving counseling through the hospital's chaplain service. 
City gas department worker Dave Chamberlain told KCAL-TV he heard shots and then saw a man waving a gun outside the hospital shoot himself. 
"We heard five shots and we took cover as well, and then ... we could see a man with a gun point­ed at himself," he said. 
A woman, Charity Perez, told the TV station her husband, a hospital valet, knew the gunman and identified him as a worker at a pharmacy. The police chief would not confirm that, pending notilication of the employees' fam­ilies. 
The gifts ranged from $8 mil­lion at Purdue to $1.5 million donated to the University of North Carolina at Asheville. The University of Iowa received $7 million; the University of Southern Mississippi, the University of North Carolina at Greensboro and the University of Maryland University College got $6 mil­lion each; the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs was given $5.5 million; and Penn State-Harrisburg received $3 million. 
It's not clear whether the gifts came from an individual, an organization or a group of people with similar interests. In every case, the donor or donors dealt with the universi­ties through lawyers or other middlemen. Some of the money came in cashier's checks, while other schools received checks from a law firm or another representative. 
All the schools had to agree not to investigate the identity of the · giver. Some were required to make such a prom­ise in writing. · 
"Our chancellor was called to a Denver law office and had to sign a confidentiality agree­ment that she would not try to find out," said Tom Hutton, spokesman at the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs. "Once the chancellor signed it, she was emphatic that we don't try to find out." 
Each was delivered since March 1 and came with the same stipulation: Most of the money must be used for stu­dent scholarships, and the remainder can be spent on various costs such as research, equipment, strategic goals and operating support. 
Model unit 
OPEN NOW! 

Just north ofToll Road access 107 Dixie 1*1y North (IN 933) 
Contact liS at (574) 271-8961 (Jr visit II'S online at: www.RoselanliTecll.com 


p 
THE OBSERVER 
page 10 
Friday, April 17, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Things Notre Dame students like 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Nmre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGlNG EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT Mo\RY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EOITOR: Ian Gavlick 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DFSIGN MANAGER: M.ary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO l @saimmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insritution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qt«stions regarding Observn-policies should be dirtcted to Editor-in-Chiifjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohocrver (USPS 599 2-1000) i• puhlish.:d Mondoy through Friday ncqn during c.:um and vote2rion periods. A .wbscriy1ion m Th~ Ol~T\'c:r is. S120 fur one JC2dcmic year; $6~ for one: ~mcsrer. 
Th< Ob..rver is publi<h<d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send ..ddrc.s com:ctions to; 
Notre Dame. IN 46i$6-0n9 Tlu: Oboervet 

Periodical po~.gc: paid at N()(I"C Dame P.O. Box 779 and .lddirionaJ mailing offioo. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Not~< Dame. IN ~6556-0779 
The: O~r~r U a. member ofthe ~x.-iatcd Preu. All rqmxluction righu .art r=v<d. 
In my seven-plus semesters at Notre Dame, I have noticed a lot of things about the student body. Some of these things are good, some bad, and some are just plain silly. With the help of fellow 
Observer Columnists Andrew Miller and Brad Blomstrom, I have compiled a list of 85 things that Notre Dame students like. Ranging from the silly (No. 7: UGGs in Snow} to the serious 


(No. 10: Giving  Bob Kessler  
Peace) this list can  
help students understand each  House ofStix  
other, parents  
understand their  

children, alumni understand the new generation and our children understand us years from now when we are old and even more indignant. Most importantly, however, I hope that this list will help us to better understand ourselves. 
So here it begins with the items most relevant for this Blue-Gold Weekend. No. 2: Complaining About The Shirt and then wearing it. 
Every year on the day before the spring game, a committee of students unveils the next year's rendition of The Shirt, the t-shirt that the entire student body is expected to wear to earh and every home football game the next year; and every year on the day before the spring game students almost unanimously begin to complain about the new edition. Whether it is an ugly yellow color (2005}, putting the current coach in the skies amongst legends of yesteryear (2006) or having sayings that make absolutely no sense (almost always) Notre Dame students love to complain incessantly about the current year's incarnation of The Shirt. 
One of the main reasons why Notre Dame students love to complain about The Shirt is because it never seems to fit them correctly. Without fail every shirt is exquisitely crafted extra wide with a goofy neck so that the incredibly fit Notre 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Dame student feels like he or she is swin1ming in it. Even worse are the thick­ness and the length of the sleeves that are always sure to keep us extra warm on those sunny August Saturdays. Notre Dame students will, without fail, com­plain about these shirts for the entirety of the football season, despite the fact that they are not being forced to wear them. 
The amazing thing about Notre Dame students and The Shirt is that after they spend weeks and months complaining about it, almost every Notre Dame stu­dent will proceed to wear The Shirt to almost every football game. Whether the students Jove to be dressed the same or simply can't help but do what they are told, everybody comes into the stadium wearing The Shirt and the student sec­tion becomes a massive field of blue/green/yellow. Notre Dame students love it so much that everybody has failed to notice the increasingly apparent Curse of The Shirt (the fact that the Irish have failed to win a single National Championship since the project began). 
This year promises to be no different. With the unveiling of The Shirt scheduled for this afternoon, the committf~e is promising that it will be the best The Shirt of all the The Shirts. The color and slogan will be revealed to triumphant fanfare, only to be brought down a cou­ple notches when everybody realizes how much they don't like it; and the complain­ing begins. 
No. 8: Claiming to have inside informa­tion about the football team. 
If there is one thing Notre Dame stu­dents love to do it's going to football games, and if there is one thing they like to do at these football games it is claim­ing to have inside information about the football team they know and love. When Jimmy Clausen overthrows a receiver voices can be heard throughout the stu­dent section saying things like, ..Dayne Crist has been looking really good in practice" or "I hear that Nate Montana is gonna make a play for the starter's job next year." 
While these students do not have any rational basis for these claims, they love to think that they know more about the state of the football team than the next guy. Every student reads Rivals.com and ND Nation as if they are i1idden gems of knowledge tucked away on some mystery machinH known as the internet. Invariably they read posts by crazed alumni and feel the need to tell every­bodv about their inside information. Sor;y bros, everybody knows that Coach Weis tried to woo Homeo Crennel here to be the D-Line coach. 
The greatest source of inside informa­tion however, comes from the students who claim they know players on the team. Students love to say things like, "I don't understand why Weis doesn't run James [Aldridge] more. He (Aldridge) tells me that he's been doing great in practice." When a Notre Dame man claims that he is friends with a football player, it almost certainly means one of two things: a} they live in the same dorm, or b) they are in Professor McKenna's Human Ethology class together. (Sidebar: if a Notre Dame woman claims she is friends with a football player, it probably means they had sex or are going to have sex.) 
Inside information about the football team does not exist because the only peo­ple who happen to be insiders as well as normal students are the football man­agers. They have such a self-proclaimed level of stature that they would never reveal anything of importance to retain their self-perceived aura around campus. 
Although my sources do say that Kapron Lewis-Moore has been looking really good in practice, and don't be sur­prised to see Goodman play QB in a spread look. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. Read more ofThings Notre Dame Students Like such as No. 5: Dressing Up to Go to Dive Bar at www.thingsnotredamestudents­like.com. You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Madeline Buckley Alex Barber Alicia Smith Mike Gotimer Molly Madden Chris Michalski Graphics Viewpoint "When I was a kid my parents
Andrea Archer Michelle Maitz moved a lot. but I always found 
them.··
Scene Adriana Pratt 

Rodney Dangerfield 
U.S. comedian 


Subm.it a L'etter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobser-Yer.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Innovation distinguishes between a leader and a follower. .. 
Steve Jobs Apple CEO 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Protest Church's intolerance 
A couple weeks ago, there was an article in The Observer that there was a "disconnect" between the current students and alumni concerning the debate of the granting of an honorary degree to the President of the United States-positing that 70-plus percent of students were in favor, and 70-plus percent of alums were against. Mathematical sophistry. Those numbers only reflect the immediately stimulated individuals from both sides who decided to submit a letter to the editor, and hardly a statistically valid survey. Where is our Math Department when we need them? 
I posit the contrary: alums are probably more sup­portive of POTUS than our current, a bit more conser­vative, student body. Mr. Donahue ("Slamming the door," April15) is spot-on. This Church, these critics of this University, are so myopic in being non-Catholic (non-universal) that it drives real Catholics away. 
Not only am I Notre Dame '64, but I'm also Georgetown Law '68, where yesterday our President was greeted with a standing ovation and with enthusi­asm for his·economic policies and social justice in this time ofour country's need. Some may joke that Georgetown is not Catholic, but Jesuit. I counter by saying Notre Dame is not Catholic, but wishing to be Arizona State. 
I applaud the ten C.S.C. priests who have spoken out in dissent against Fr. Jenkins. A'i a product of the '60's, I support their right to protest. I have no vow of obedience either, so I can slam my church. I also believe that the senior class and other students should take aggressive action/dissent against those non­Christian activists who have vowed to turn your grad­uation into a "circus." I, for one, advocate aggressive resistance to this right-wing advocacy to disrupt in the name ofa phony, political issue, my University and your graduation. Protest, protest, against your Church's intolerance. 
K Eric Gisleson alumnus Class of1968 April15 

Students not the Pharisees 
This is in response to the "Slamming the door" letter (April 15) written by Mr. Donahue and his condemnation of the actions of our students in keeping with the teachings of our Church. I feel insulted that any person, especially an alumnus, would compare the students to the Pharisees. I also oppose his implication of praise on those who are in favor of letting the most pro-abortion presi­dent in our nation's history speak (which is in direct defiance of the USCCB) as being humble worshipers of God. 
Perhaps Mr. Donahue was speaking only to out­side protesters, but as for the students, we do not deserve this condemnation for publically support­ing the view of the Church through protest. Are the many bishops that have spoken out about this being self-righteous? Was John Paul II "proudly" condemning the culture of death in the West? 
For anyone to say that promoting the dear and non-negotiable view of the Church as tarnishing the image of the University is offensive and ridicu­lous. Notre Dame is indeed a beautiful University and has been a great Catholic institution. Here it has a great opportunity to uphold the holy teach­ings of the Church. But to suggest that Notre Dame should allow Obama to speak here merely because of his civic position is not a legitimate position for Notre Dame. We should hold ourselves to the same authority the holy Catholic Church does, the revealed Word of God, and we should thus respect the guidance of the Church and humbly respect the bishops. 
What offends me the most is Donahue's sugges­tion that the Holy Mother would embrace her University honoring a man whose pub1ic policy has directly led to the increase in the murder of the innocent. It is that honor that we protest; we are not opposing dialogue, but opposing giving a pedestal to a man who fundamentally rejects our faith's core values. 
The Holy Mother, our God and this University offer reconciliation, but offering forgiveness to a penitent heart and publically honoring Obama with a degree and speaking platform are very dif­ferent things. The USCCB holds itself to only the highest of authorities, and to suggest that they should bow to the influence of civil authorities is disrespectful. Donahue saying this move would be a continued "stiff-arm" to powerful civil authorities suggests that the bishops are conspiring and not upholding the holy teachings of the Church. 
The bishops act with the apostolic authority that has passed down from the Apostles. Donahue addresses two problems: the staining of Notre Dame's image, and the lowering numbers of faith­ful. He seems to claim that those in protest will only serve to worsen both issues. 
Notre Dame stands for God over country, for the dignity of human life over the popularity and pres­tige of an elected civil oflicial. If we ignore this, Notre Dame willlea\-e a legacy of lost priorities. And to blame protest against the culture of death for the empty pews is unfounded, to say that enforcing doctrine is driving Catholics from wor­ship. 
The actions of Randall Terry may be unfortunate in how he fights for life, but to call the faithful stu­dents and bishops (who uphold the sanctity of life with dignity and respect) Pharisees is shameful. I do not wish to condemn Mr. Donahue or the presi­dent, only those views that tarnish the authority of the Church and the dignity of all human life and Notre Dame's role in these issues. 
Erik Bock freshman Stanford Hall April16 

Save PigTostal 
Every school has its day. Unoflicial St. Patrick's Day at Illinois. Cedar Fest at Michigan State. Little 500 at Indiana. Halloween at Wisconsin. Mardi Gras at SLU. Hash Bash at Michigan and so on and so on. Every school has that day where thousands not attending that school can blow off a weekend and road trip, because "dude, *insert event* at *insert school* is going to be sick this year. I didn't go last year, but my buddy that goes there said its for sure legit." 
Racking my brain, Notre Dame has no such event. Unless, of course, you count PigTostal. And now, rumors have been flying about how the University has decided that the next front in the war on fun is this event. ResLife and its Dometroopers have begun in their attempts to take from us this, our one "event." To be sure, PigTostal really isn't even that great. It's kind of a bummer. It's what most students do every week­end with the addition of specially printed plastic cups and an unfavorable ratio of shirtless dudes to available beer. And you have to buy a ticket for it. 
Now, nobody at nearby schools has been itching to road trip down to Notre Dame this weekend, and, if you have been there before, you can't really say that you have preemptively written "gre~test day ever" in Saturday's box in your Jonas Brothers calendar. But it is something. And as a student you must stand up for your right to stand up in a back­yard, with an empty cup, no girl because you're not an athlete, and wish you would have gone to the Blue Gold game. I heard Weis even guaranteed an Irish victory (Notre Dame football joke). 
So, in ending, to ResLife: please don't take PigTostal from us. It's all we have and, trust me, you can take away our fun much more effectively elsewhere. And to the students, go and enjoy the red headed stepchild that is PigTostal. Love it because it's yours. Bring your friends. If they won't come, tell them it's an anti-Obama rally. Go Dome or Go Home. 
Matt Paletta semor off campus April16 

Eddy St. Commons 
When the Eddy Street Commons (ESC) plan was announced, Notre Dame's Office of Business Operations presented it as "a showcase for both Notre Dame and the City of South Bend." 
ESC promised a partnership between town and gown, and was supported by the city with tens of millions in tax increment financing. But it now seems Notre Dame has decreed for itself an out-of-state pleasure dome. To date these tenants only are announced: Chipotle, a six story Marriott, a Follett Bookstore, a Hot Box Pizza, Doc Magrogan's, Noodle and Co, a Springhill Suites and Kildare's. Far from a 'showcase' for South Bend, these merchants respectively hail from Denver, Washington D.C., Chicago, Indianapolis, Philly, Broomfield, Colorado, Washington D.C. again and Philly again. 
Chain businesses typically funnel dollars out of local areas more quickly than indigenous counterparts. They arrive with developed and out-of-area supply networks and management structures, and depend less on local suppliers and services. The current proposal for ESC demonstrates lack of awareness of how local economies are sustained and little respect for the South Bend com­munity's contributions to ESC. Further, it is difficult to determine that the University has considered Catholic Social Doctrine and its emphasis on solidarity and sub­sidiarity in economic affairs. 
South Bend has recently benefited from growth in locally owned businesses, from Fiddler's Hearth and the Tire Rack, to the South Bend Chocolate Co. and Better World Books, for example. These join outstanding tradi­tions near campus like CJs, Parisi's, Rocco's, Studebagels, Lula's and many others, each well articulat­ed within the Notre Dame-South Bend community. With these, Eddy Street could have more in common. 
Notre Dame enjoys final approval of all tenants with Kite Realty, the site's developer. The University could shorten the slack on Kite's string and direct its retail recruiters to the local area. It could also specify that future vacancies from current tenants prefer local entre­preneurs. At another level, Notre Dame could expand its salutary programs to engage faculty with Catholic Social Doctrine to members of the University administration, so that current and future economic initiatives exhibit virtues of Catholic social thought. 
Kite Healty, an out of town developer with no previous experience in South Bend, has not thus far visibly or suc­cessfully recruited local businesses. If this pattern per­sists, the stretch from Edison Road to Napoleon Street cannot be considered a bridge between Notre Dame and South Bend, but a stumbling block. The city deserves bet­ter, and the University could do much more. 
Richard Klee alumnus Class of 2002 April 15 

Right kind of pride 
Pride? Four years ago I was overcome with pride when my son was admitted to Notre Dame. His attendance here buoyed our extended family as everyone learned, and I re-learned, so many fine Irish traditions. We have long looked forward to graduation day as a celebration of his achievement and that of his classmates. 
Our pride grew further when we learned the president, who so inspires the young and in whom we have all placed so much hope, would speak to his class at Commencement. Those who intend to protest the presi­dent's presence ask too much of Notre Dame families. The pro-life movement has always asked us to ignore the distinction between sins that, because of broad societal consensus, are also condemned as civil crimes (like mur­der) and those (like abortion and adultery) that are not. They further demand that fealty to the Church's official position on abortion be the only litmus test for our politi­cal leaders, regardless of that leader's stand on other critical issues of life and death. 
But the protestors seek yet one more thing here. They ask that we, who have with tears of pride and much sac­rifice, cheered and consoled and supported our children these four long years, now turn this moment over to them in order to advance a cause. That's pride, but not the good kind. 
My answer is simple: No. May 17 belongs to my son and his classmates. They earned it. They are my only cause on that day. 
Nick Simeonidis alumnus Class of 1986 April 16 

THE 0BSERVEP 
E

page 12 


Friday, April 17, 2009 

By JAMES DUBRAY Scene Writer 

A certain logic exist<> in rock and roll about a band's trajectory. Arenas are thought of to be the penultimate goal for any group of twenty-some­things with big record collections and bigger ere­ative Joneses. Yet, Wilco .have never been much about respecting corporate notions of rock and roll. 
On Tuesday, America's best live rock band took the stage at the 1 ,345 capacity Pabst Theater in Milwaukee. And no, that number is not missing an extra digit. Wilco could probably sell out the flip­ping Bradley Center -the largest arena in Milwaukee -but instead chose to treat fans to two intimate nights at one of America's oldest ­and most beautiful -rock venues. 
As fans rose to their feet in uproarious applause, the band opened with a thank you of their own, playing "Wilco The Song," the opening track from their forthcoming June LP. The audi­
ence sang along and crit­ics lauded, but Jeff Tweedy couldn't help
crack his big slanted smile, singing, "Wilco will love you. baby." The main set continued 
in a greatest-hits fashion, focusing on the band's two most lauded records, 

Fanfavorites ""Handshake Drugs., and "'Muzzle oifBees'' 
sounded as boisterous as ever as Nels Cline jerked frantically 
on his skull-crushing guitar 
solos. 

"Yankee Hotel Foxtrot" and "A Ghost Is Born." While Yankee is almost universally agreed upon as the Chicago group's studio masterpiece, Ghost has translated to the live setting better than any other Wilco album to date. 
Fan favorites "Handshake Drugs" and "Muzzle of Bees" sounded as boisterous as ever as Nels Cline jerked frantically on his skull-crushing gui­tar solos. Three guitar attack "Impossible Germany" and Woody Guthrie penned "One By One" displayed the importance of musicianship in a band that is most loved for its leader's lyrics, while "Ashes of American Flags" and "Via Chicago" revealed yet again that no one today writes as insightfully and hauntingly as Jeff Tweedy. 
The highlight of the set was the Neil Young inspired, Marquee Moon era Television influenced with Tweedy singing achingly above his hushed electric guitar as the audience fell silent at the beauty in front of them. 
As tears welled up in singles' eyes and couples pensively swooned, the Ghost opener erupted into a massive Tweedy guitar solo, which was joined by a Nels Cline riff after only a minute. Clearly, the avant-garde guitar virtuoso is having an effect on his band's benevolent dictator because Tweedy looked as brilliant as ever making his guitar say more than his voice ever could. 
Mter an hour and a half filled with jokes about jean jackets smelling like "Mostaccioli schnapps'' and set staples "Jesus, Etc" and "A Shot In The Arm," Wilco exited the stage leaving behind a fully satisfied crowd. 
Five short minutes later, the band returned for what would be a nine-song double encore. Die­hard Wilco fans, who were compared to Deadheads by Milwaukee Brewers announcers a night earlier, pounded their heads in unison as the 
unusually simple bridge of "The Late Greats" seemed like perfect company for the empty
PBRs on the theater floor. 
It took til the end of the sec­ond encore for Wilco's first two albums to even be touched. 
"A.M." single "Box Full of Letters" inspired a sing-along as Tweedy belted out the words to his (rumored) goodbye letter 
to childhood friend and ex-bandmate Jay Farrar. 
The set ended with typical encore dweller, "Kingpin." The band pandered to the crowd, changing "Pekin" to "Wisconsin" as Tweedy pleaded with fans to come up with a new audi­ence response to the band's chorus. (Typically, after Wllco sings "Kingpin," audience members in unison bust out a sloppy "Ooooooo.") After a con­pie failed alternatives, Wilco and the audience returned to their usual arrangement echoing a statement Tweedy made minutes earlier to his drummer and friend, "If it ain't broken, don't fix it." Nothing could better sum up the rock world's message to its favorite live band. 
Contact James DuBray at jdubray@nd.edu 
-v·v~· . ' . . -"' . •:·;.... <.·· ··• .. •.·.·.. . . ·.. . -~-··· ..-.. . .:· · · . ·· 111;;.~.' • a; '-;"
·. 1. f . ........... ··· ·.-.".-.-".. ····· ·. ' ·.. • .. I l · ·•..·~. t .
. . . . -,,..,. ·...· . J. ' 
c 

.•... llL~ ~~J .. J,_ t 
.. 
. --~ . ...~ 

·)VHco the "Song · 
. . :" ~ 

Hummingbird ,,~~--t~ That's ·Whgt You S~9"'' 
~zzle of 8e8$ ,:~ ., .~~,, 
_..;.· 
~> 

.You.-Are My Face 
0
00 00

0 •-;.•'.;":: :-:, : :, 0 ~ 00 0 :, ::~ :;~,.-:":f.rf~~-~ ~~ &-¢;t~-:.~_i;-;-,L 
·:. t-A.rr\ Trying To .Bre'?,f< Yo~,..Heart 
,. ':, _:,_.·. 
·. '·' 

;{d!f!<fli '<--.<··.­
.....;.,--:-· -~~::;>~-~-~ 
~~;..~ 4~r~ 
:~·
l1t Fight 

V·la·.· Chiea·g,.·,f#·:..•o.·..:.·.)!;'ii.··.··.·.• · it' 
> 
-. t~,..-~; 
.l 


~~ -~
;' ,~ "'~
. 

·Th·eolog~_am. +~ 

. 
1 
•..• >

W--'tt, .)Jl§~: " ··:~··.·.0··:';~~t~F,· . ' -~ I ·~ 
Ul"en.//# ..·. \' .1~ ··-... ;~/ 
the Ma.p Who·-.,loVes Yob .·· 
~· .. · <T . . ,. ,; &~,,-:.;:. >:l'··.:___ ;:::' 
~> ·~~ .
.;;.,·hifii 

.-;:.:. ~ 
.··:':)..
·!Me 2:
-:-i. ·• 
. #'t:tll#k· 
~~.. ~!. ·:?;.· . . 
i 
:..;;_··._ 
ANDREA 




Friday, April 1 7, 2009

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
COMMENTARY 

Don't take Blue-Gold results too seriously 
How much stock can we place in the outcome of the Blue-Gold game? It depends what outcome we're talking about. 
It helps Irish fans not at all if Gold beats Blue 45-37. Two main interpretations of spring­game performance exist: the positional performance and the unit performance. Both get 
coaches and fans into trou­ble if they read too much into either, but the performances can also pro­vide nuggets of information 

about the  Bill Brink  
upcoming season.  Sports Writer  
Look at  
positional  

performance first. The fact that a second-string linebacker has 11 tackles, an interception and a blocked punt in the spring game means nothing. It's like a pitcher throwing seven scoreless innings in spring training: you hope it carries over to the regular sea­son but have no insurance that it wilL 
In fact, the spring game bal­ances all praise or criticism for the players. Should a player struggle, they can chalk it up to pre-season rust that will wear off by the time Nevada rolls around. If they shine, the skep­tics will point out that they shined in the spring game and who knows what will happen in the regular season. This catch­22 makes it impossible, there­fore, to take too much away from individual performances. 
It's the same with the play of the units. I wouldn't be surprised if Jimmy Clausen throws four touchdowns. In fact, facing a defense he's watched play for two years and that he has prac­ticed against all spring, I hope he has a good day. Conversely, if the defense holds Clausen to 7­of-24 for 87 yards and picks him off twice, it wouldn't faze me. They've seen the man play for two seasons and practiced against him. His mannerisms and style should be well-docu­mented. 
So rather than look at the play of the individual players or the units facing their teammates, look for aspects of play that bode well for the season. For exam­ple, can the offensive line create holes for the running backs? New 0-line coach Frank Verducci's got the linemen work­ing. Tackle Paul Duncan said the coaching staff has individualized instructions for all of the line­men. Expect the line to get off the ball this season. 
Will the running backs make it through those holes, should they materialize? The team averaged 
3.3 yards per carry last season, and that needs to improve to take pressure off of the passing game. Can Clausen look off his receivers, or will he still watch them down the field? Costly interceptions against North Carolina and Michigan State last year stopped drives and switched momentum, and Clausen's helmet looked like it had a string attached to his receiver both times. 
How will the linebackers adjust to the absence of five-year stalwart Maurice Crum Jr.? Can they effectively communicate plays and coverages? Watch them before the snap. If they're 




I 
\ 

running this way and that, wildly gesticulating to each other, they're still learning the commu­nication process. Harrison Smith's move from linebacker to safety won't help. 
Same deal in the secondary, which lost safety David Bruton to graduation. Safety Kyle McCarthy is back for a fifth year, and cornerback Darrin Walls returns as well. In fact, the match-up to watch is between the receivers and the secondary. The Irish have the most talent in those units. 
In spite of all my negative thoughts about the usefulness of the spring game in predicting performance next season, those aspects should provide a helpful hint. But finally, look at the team as a whole. It's last time out, remember, the team traveled five time zones to face Hawaii in a bowl game and stomped the Warriors in their house on Christmas Eve. Confidence should be sky-high right now. 
The players talk about having "good practices." Receiver Robby Parris said the players are flying around at full speed. I bet that continues. Remember last spring game when running back Armando Allen got laid out down near the goal line? Something like that will happen again. Remember last spring game when the 0-linemen got into it with some defensive guys after a touchdown? Wouldn't surprise me if things got a bit tense. 
The team has talent, the play­ers know they can play better than they did some games last season and they're on a roll after the Hawaii Bowl. Look for passion, excitement and big plays come Saturday. 
The spring game can tell you all you need to know about Notre Dame's prospects for the upcoming season -if you look for the right things. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 

• 
Friday, April 17, 2008 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
New faces, new places 
Weis brings in Frank Verducci, Randy Hart and Tony Alford to shake things up 
in his first press conference.
By SAM WERNER 

"To join a place with the tradi­
Associate Sports Editor tion and history of Notre Dame 
is very exciting and I'm grate­
Last season's late-season col­ful to Coach Weis for extending
lapse has been analyzed, dis­me this tremendous opportuni­
sected and torn apart by Notre ty."
Dame fans all over the country. Hart was the final piece to 
Many of those fans were even the puzzle, joining the staff in 
calling for Irish coach Charlie late February, more than a 
Weis' job. 

month after Verducci and 
Weis wasn't fired, but he did 

Alford were hired. The 61­
shake up the coaching staff in year-old Hart had spent the a big way. Former running previous 21 years as the backs coach Michael Haywood defensive line coach at left to become the head coach Washington but was not at Miami (Ohio), and offensive retained when the Huskies and defensive line coaches 
hired new head coach Steve 
John Latina and Jappy Oliver Sarkisian. 
left to pursue other opportuni­"I'm thrilled to add someone 
ties. Replacing them were with the resume and personal­Tony Alford at running backs, ity of Randy Hart to our coach­Frank Verducci at offensive ing staff." Weis said at Hart's line and Randy Hart at defen­introduction. "As I discussed sive line. last week, there were certain Verducci was the first new attributes and qualities I was coach hired, just a week after looking for in this hire. First Latina resigned. Like Weis, he and foremost, he had to have is a New Jersey native, and great chemistry with Jon gained most of [Tenuta, defen­his coaching sive coordina­experience in tor] and Corwin
"As long as the effort's 
the NFL. [Brown, associ­
Verd ucci had there, and I can see on 
ate head coach].been in the pro the field that they're Second, we ranks since wanted someone
grasping what we're 
2001 coaching that was a high­
the Dallas trying to teach them ... 
energy coach Cowboys, that's encouraging., that could devel­Buffalo Bills op our young
and Cleveland defensive line." 
Frank Verducci 
Browns. Prior The new
Irish offensive line coach 
to that, though, coaches didn't he had spent have much time nine years to get acclimat­
coaching the offensive line at ed to South Bend, with springthe University of Iowa. practice starting just a month 
"Frank provides an excellent after the staff was set. background on both the offen­"It was pretty much all busi­sive line and run game in gen­ness the first time I met eral from two perspectives, [Verducci]," senior guard Eric 
having coached several years Olsen said. in professional football and at All three new hires said theythe Division I level, predomi­knew what they wanted to nantly in the Big Ten," Weis accomplish when they arrived, said in Verducci's introductory though. Verducci, for example, press conference. "His experi­said he wanted to focus mostly ence will be an asset both to on the technical aspects of our players and our staff." blocking. 
Alford was the next hire, just "As long as the effort's there, five days after Verducci. The and I can see on the field that new running backs coach they're grasping piece by piece came to the Irish from what we're trying to teach Louisville, where he coached them and the changes we're for two seasons after nine sea­trying to make, that's encour­sons at Iowa State sandwiched aging," he said. "Technical around one at Washington. errors right now I can under­
"Notre Dame is the epitome stand because a lot of things of college football," Alford said I'm teaching they haven't been 

sive line coach has been 
known to keep up with players 
more than 40 years his junior. 
"He is just wired for sound," 

Weis said with a laugh. 
Part of Hart's job description 

is mentoring new defensive 
graduate assistant, and former 
Irish defensive lineman, 
Bryant Young. 
"I think Handy might be 

wearing him out as the time 
goes on," Weis said. "I bet 
[Bryant] never thought that 
would happen, but you've got 
to keep going to keep up with 
[Coach Hart]." 
Alford, on the other hand, 

has used his recent playing 
experience as a way to connect 
with his unit. He played run­
ning back at Colorado State 
and was an All-WAC selection 
in 1989. 
"You have a coach that 

knows what he's talking about 
in the film room, and then 
when he gets on the field can 
translate the same thing and 
still have as much energy as if 
he was playing the game," 
sophomore running back 
Armando Allen said. 
Alford inherited a unit that has been high on potential, but low on production the last few years. While the phrase "run­ning back by committee" has been the hot phrase recently, Alford said that wouldn't nec­essarily be the case this year. 
"Everyone's got a role," Alford said. "That role might be 7 5 snaps, that role might be 40 snaps, that role might be 10 snaps. You will dictate your role by what you do in practice every single day." 
Though it's only been 15 practices, Weis said he likes what he sees from his new staff. 
"They are good teachers and they go, go, go, go, go," Weis said. "I appreciate good teach­ers, but I especially appreciate good teachers with high levels of energy, and that's been infectious at their positions as well." 
Despite the early success, all the coaches know kickoff against Nevada is a long way away, and the ultimate judg­ment of their success or failure won't be made until the 2009 season is in the books. 
"We're moving in the right direction," Hart said. "But the name of the game is work." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
exposed to before. 
"But in many ways, assign­ment-wise, this is the same offense they've been in, and we spend time before practice trying to put them in as many situations as possible. Mental errors to me are more disturb­ing." 
Alford was less technical, saying he was more concerned with the confidence and men­tal state of his running backs. 
"They have to understand how good they can be. They have to feel that they can be good before they will be good," he said. "We want to be com­plete players, being able to 
run, being able to block, being able to carry, not putt-ing it on the ground. That's what we're looking for, just the consistency of making plays all the time." 
II art was probably faced with the biggest chal­lenge of the new staff, tak­ing on a defen­sive line that is 
arguably Notre Dame's most inexperiencp,d unit. 
"Spring practice is experi­
mentation of your scheme," Hart said. "It's an experimen­tation of personnel." 
So far. the early returns from the players have been nothing but positive. 
"He's an energetic guy, fun to be around," freshman defen­sive end Kapron Lewis-Moore said. "He's a little tough, but he's fun to be around." 
Similarly, the offensive line­men have responded enthusi­astically to Verducci's detail­oriented approach. Senior tackle Sam Young said his new coach was making him rethink small details such as whether to dominate with the inside or 
''They {the running backs] have to understand how good they can be. They have to feel that they can be good before they will be good. , 
Tony Alford Irish running backs coach 
outside hand when pass­blocking. 
"Honestly, it was like learn­ing how to walk again," Young said. "I've been taught one way since I started playing foot­ball, and now it's different." 
Olsen echoed his teammate, saying that a new approach was necessary 

to keep the veteran linemen on their toes. 
"Coach Verducci definitely brings a new approach to the offensive line, which is good for me personally," Olsen said. "Going into my fourth year, getting a little comfortable in the system, that changeup is definitely a good thing." 
Verducci himself admitted that he might be a little more concerned about the little things than your average col­lege coach. 
"In college football, the pri­ority is development. In pro football, the priority is details," Verducci said. "So it's details versus development. I guess what I've tried to do here is mesh the two of them. We have to challenge them to develop, but in the same instance I can show them details to acceler­ate that development." 
As for Hart, it's hard for any­one to say much without men­tioning the intensity he brings to practice. Despite his unas­suming appearance -Weis joked that he originally thought Hart was a lost profes­sor looking for the philosophy department -the new defen-

Friday, April 17, 2009

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

Players to watch Projected d~ 



Crist may be the Tate showed last surefire backup season that he could heading into the be more than just season, but this will the go-route special­be the first look at ist he was as a Jimmy Clausen's freshman, and the heir apparent on a Irish need him to big stage. Weis has continue his develop­been high on Crist's ment into an elite competitiveness all receiver alongside spring. Michael Royd. 
With James Injuries gave Aldridge likely to Parris a chance to see significant re-assert himself reps at fullback this spring, and next fall, Hughes Weis said he has needs to step into taken advantage. the role as the pri-He's being pushed mary bruising by John Goodman, back behind though, and needs Armando Allen, the to continue to more elusive back. impress. 





Duncan missed Ragone looked last year with an good in last year's injury, but he'll be spring game but back on Clausen's missed all season to blind side. The left injury. He'll look to tackle position is pick up where he left always one of the off and establish most crucial on himself as a sound the field, especial­option alongside ly for a throwing starter Kyle 

team. Rudolph. TE Mike Ragone Editor's Note: The depth charts above are based on those released at the beginning 

I I I 

Friday, April 17, 2009 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

pth charts Players to watch 

A top recruit a Williams has year ago, Filer is bat-flown under the tling for playing time radar at times, but in a crowded line-he's shown that he backer corps that can use his frame will receive a boost to be a force on the with the arrival of Interior defensive Manti Te'o in the line -which will fall. He has all the be critical to Notre tools to be an Dame's run impact player now. defense. 
Weis said Smith Johnson show­would be the start­cased his natural ing Mike linebacker ability in limited if the Irish opened action a year ago, their season today. and his ability to He needs to show play both inside a consistent ability and outside will to defend the pass give the Irish if he wants to keep options with their a spot in the line­pass rush in obvi­up. ous situations. 

Smith asserted Lewis-Moore was himself with a big listed atop the play in last year's depth chart to spring game, and begin the spring after seeing action despite not seeing at various posi­the field as a fresh­tions in the fall, man, and Weis was he's made the full­impressed with him time move to safe­enough during the ty, his more natu­spring to keep him ral position. there. 






GAME FORMAT & SCORING ADJUSTED FOR 
2009 BLUEreGOLD GAME 
80th Annual Spring Game Will Feature the Offense Against the Defense 
GAME FORMAT POINT SYSTEM 
.DAME CLOCK OFFENSE DEFENSE Two 30-minule halves with a running clock 


Missed Extra Point
Clock stoppages only~ to injuries or timeouts Normal c/ode rules apply to the lasl two minutes of each half 
Dtfensive Stop
TIMEODTB Sack 

&ch team is allowed three timeou.ts per half Missed 2-Point Conversion 

3 FieldGoal 
3and0ut
HALFTIME 
Missed/ Blocked Field Goal
Halftime will last 10 minutes. 
8-----------------------­
Touchdown Turnover
I'·CDI.TOBB 
10---------------­
Tumover for Touchdown
and sidelines for the offense and defense. ·s A cnemonial coin toss at the beginning ofthe Blue-Gold game deter­, mines which end zone the defense will defend. 
DTBEB BOLES 

Players in redjerseys must be tagged off with two hands to be down, A hit to a player in a redjersey wiD result in a 15-yard pmonal..foul pen· 
·· ally. Allotherplayers are live. &ch posession Sla11ing a half,following a score or after a defensive stop will begin on the 35-yardline. If the ball is punted then the drive will begin from the spot ofthe return. Their will not k any ldckojji A scoring point system (right) will determine the winner ofthe game. There will not Nan own~period shouldthe score be tied at the end of regulation. 




Friday, April 17, 2009 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Early enrollees adjust to football, life at ND 
By MATT GAMBER Spom Editor 

While it's been reported that Irish coach Charlie Weis wouldn't encourage his own child to skip the end of high school to get a jumpstart on spring football practice, Notre Dame's three early enrollees are glad they did. 
E.J. Banks, Zeke Motta and Tyler Stockton all decided to forgo the second semester of their senior year of high school, instead choosing to enroll at Notre Dame and begin their careers as college student-athletes. 
"I thought that the positives kind of outweighed the nega­tives as far as coming in early," said Motta, a product of Vero Beach (Fla.) High. "I just think that it's going to be real beneficial to me -getting some classes out of the way, learning the system of college life and football life." 
But it hasn't been a clean break from high school for the three early enrollees. In fact, it was the chance to head back home and enjoy the end of his prep career that made Notre Dame an attractive choice for Banks. 
"That was one thing that I was really concerned about when I was talking to the coaches doing my recruiting." said Banks, who played quar­terback and defensive back at Montour (Pa.) High. "Coach Weis was probably the best about saying I could do other things I would usually do as a senior, like going to prom and going to my senior football banquet, things like that." 
Though Banks hasn't yet seen the field as he continues to rehab a knee injury, it's been a productive spring for the future Irish defensive back, Weis said. 
"He's really been just recu­perating, getting ready to go, and that's gone really well," Weis said. 
And not just on the field. Banks said that while he cer­tainly wants to play now, he has reaped the benefits of becoming better adjusted to the rigors of college academ­ics. 
"When I first got here I was overwhelmed, but slowly but surely they have helped me along and I think I've gotten through the transition pretty smoothly," Banks said. 
Stockton, who played his high school ball at The Hun School (N.J.), has already worked his way into the mix on the interior defensive line, Weis said. 
"As he's worked his way into shape he's shown what we thought he'd be," Weis said. "[He's] a really quick guy at the line of scrimmage who's a pain in the butt and can pene­trate. We're very encouraged with his play on the defensive line because he did not look out of place." 
Stockton was the subject of much conversation after Notre Dame's lone open practice of the spring on March 28. After guard Chris Stewart dominat­ed Stockton in a one-on-one drill and then proceeded to stand over and slightly taunt him, Weis told Stockton not to be afraid to stand right back up and get in the upperclass­man's face. 
"That was just my introduc­tion to college football," Stockton said. "I realized I have to play really aggressive, really stay low on bigger guys like that, and its just the tempo -it's faster, guys are bigger, and I have to use my quickness." 
Stockton isn't a lock for playing time in the fall, as sev­eral other young defensive linemen are also competing for limited spots. But he has a positive outlook on his spring experience, even if it doesn't immediately pay dividends. 
"I know this is going to help me out in the long run," Stockton said. "Its better to come in now, get adjusted to guys like Chris Stewart and Eric Olsen -going against these guys and really knowing what to expect. Now coming into summer practice, I really have no excuses. I just have to show what I can do." 
The start of classes and practice are typically viewed as the two biggest changes for an early enrollee, but for Motta, it was something else -a South Bend winter. 
"Obviously coming up here in January has been a little cold, but everythings going good," Motta said. ''I'm enjoy­ing it and working on my fun-damentals and techniques." 

Motta played primarily defensive back in high school, but the majority of his looks with the Irish have been at linebacker. He's still learning the ropes, but his athleticism has impressed Weis, who said he could start immediately on all four special teams units. 
"He's been probably one of the best-conditioned guys on our team," Weis said. "He can run fast and he can run all 
over the place, but right now we've got to get him to run to the right spot." 
As for now, Motta is focused on running out of one spot: the tunnel of Notre Dame Stadium. 
"It's something to look for­ward to," Motta said. "I've been looking forward to it my whole life, and I've heard 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Receivers take advantage of spring chances 

By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Jimmy Clausen's worst night­mare, believe it or not, can benefit the Irish receiving corps. 
Not having the tandem of freshman Michael Floyd and sophomore Golden Tate around to catch passes can't be fun for the sophomore quarterback, but it has allowed the rest of the Irish receivers to get more work in spring practice. Floyd has practiced on and off because of a knee injury and Tate has spent the spring as the starting left fielder and leadoff man for the Irish base­ball team. But their absence lets receivers like Robby Parris. Duval Kamara, John Goodman and Deion Walker get more work. 
"It's still competitive because you know we have guys like Goode and Deion out there," Kamara said. "The competition hasn't went down. I'd just say it's more reps, if anything." 
Floyd and Tate combined for 1799 yards and 17 touchdowns last season. Kamara finished with 206 yards and one touch­down and Parris had 50 yards receiving. Both Kamara and Parris said they wanted to improve their consistency this spring. 
"To be a consistent receiver you gotta block, you've got to catch, you've got to run routes, you've got to know what to do," Parris said. "If vou're a receiver and you can.'t block, you're probably not going to play. If you're a receiver and can block and can't catch. 
you're probably not going to play. 
"To be a complete receiver you've got to block, be smart, catch the ball, finish every­thing." 
The way the receiving corps is structured, Kamara said, helps the unit improve as a whole. The players spend time together off the field and have a good time during practice. 
"I spend time with almost all of the guys, when we're in 
the dorms it's ../ used to be kind of means more like Deion and the clown ofthe focus on other 
Floyd," Kamara aspects of the
group, and now I just
said. "If we're offense. 
out on the week­kind ofease in there "It's tough not ends it's more and make sure having those Robby and guys out there,
everyone's not 
George [West]." not being able 
That closeness screwing around to throw the goes hand-in­too much.,, ball to them . hand with a but it helps us tight balance in other ways,"
Robby Parris 
between living it Clausen said. 
Irish wide receiver
up and putting "We can work 
can't be too tight if you're going to play good." 
The receivers, Parris said, all have a little character in them, even the ever-business-like Floyd. They all have nick­names, too, but Parris isn't snitching. 
"We all got nicknames for everybody around here, but we gotta keep those on the hush­hush," he said. 
While more reps means more 
work for the 
receivers, it also 
in hard work. Parris said that, as an older member of the unit, he's the one who keeps the balance. 
"I used to be kind of the clown of the group, and now I just kind of ease in there and make sure everyone's not screwing around too much," Parris said. 
But it's hard for Parris to shed the fun-loving persona that he said coaches have tried to limit since he arrived. He makes sure to liven up the receiving corps as well. 
''I'm also the one who likes to have fun too," he said. "So I kind of make sure everyone's in check, but not in check at the same time, because you 
on the run game a little bit more and get better at that." 
Parris said the reps are start­ing to even out, and that the receivers are getting more rest. But the practice speed, he said, indicates a team working hard to prepare itself. 
"It's been more up-tempo than it has been in the past, because we know we have tu get ready for the season," he said. "Even if it's not full go, everybody's running around, hitting people. making sure we're trying to get ready for the game." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Friday, April 17, 2009 page 7
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Irish welcome return of five fifth-years 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
After four years, they still have some unfinished busi­ness. 
Five seniors will return for a 
fifth year this fall -offensive 
lineman Paul Duncan, safeties 
Kyle McCarthy and Ray 
Herring, linebacker Scott 
Smith and special teams star 
Mike Anello. After under­
whelming performances by 
the Irish their junior and sen­
ior seasons, each returns hop­
ing to contribute and conclude 
his career on a high note. 
"There's a lot left on the table the last four years, opportunities that I could have had that I left there," Duncan said. "So now I'll be able to come back and get this fifth year, I'm excited to right that ship." 
Duncan will provide more leadership to an improved offensive line whose success will be critical for the Notre Dame offense. He looks to be the presumptive starter at left tackle, and has drawn praise from new offensive line coach Frank Verducci and head coach Charlie Weis in spring practice. 
Weis, who could not speak specifically about the seniors until they were officially approved for a fifth year and added to the roster, men­tioned Duncan as a player who had caught his eye. "There's a left tackle that has been one of the more pleasant people for me to look at so far in camp," Weis said. "It's been a good thing to watch." 
Duncan missed the entire 2008 season because of a hip injury. He started all 12 games of his junior season, with two starts at left tackle and 10 at right tackle. 
Individually, Duncan said he feels he can improve on his 

past performance in the com­
ing season. "I feel like I didn't 
play up to the potential that I 
had," Duncan said. "The way I 
approached things, I feel like 
I could have done a lot more." 
McCarthy also will have a starting role as a fifth year, returning at strong safety after a strong performance in his first year playing a bigger role in the Notre Dame defense. 
"I set my goals high this year," McCarthy said. "I want to be one of the best defensive backs in the country, flat out." 
The Ohio native led the Irish in tackling with 110 in 2008, and also recorded two inter­ceptions and forced a fumble. McCarthy said he was confi­dent heading into the season that he would perform well replacing NFL draft-pick Tom Zbikowski. 
"I knew I could do it, I don't know if you guys knew that," McCarthy said. "You have to have confidence playing in the defensive backfield. Hopefully we can build on last year and continue to move forward." 
McCarthy has also adjusted in the spring to communicat­ing with a new safety along­side him, as rising junior Harrison Smith has taken over at free safety after David Bruton's departure. 
"It's different, but the guys we have in are coached so well that we know how to do it and we're trained to do it, so it's a pretty smooth transi­tion," McCarthy said. "As a young guy coming in a couple years ago, it's been fun watching [Harrison] develop into an every-down player." 
The former walk-on and special teams standout Anello will bring his energy and toughness back for one more season, and the senior is champing at the bit to return. "I just can't wait to get out there," Anello said. ''I'm going 

stir-crazy." 
Anello began seeing the field as a gunner in punt cov­erage as a walk-on during his junior season, and earned a scholarship for his senior year. 
"It's exciting [coming back] because ... the opportunity to come back and play another year is something I couldn't have dreamt about. I'm really excited about it," Anello said. Listed at 5-foot-1 0 and 170 pounds, Anello had 12 tackles on special teams in 2008, forced two fumbles and recov­ered one. He played a key role in the early-season victories over San Diego State and Michigan, where he had a forced fumble aTid a recovery that set up an Irish touch­down. 
"The San Diego State game, 
after that I said. this is the best game of my life. Then the Michigan game happened," Anello said. 
Anello's season ended early after breaking his tibia against USC, but he said the recovery process was going well. He was recently named to the Lott Trophy watch list for 2009, an award given to top defensive players who have the biggest impact on and off the field. 
When asked, Anello said he didn't know he had been named to the watch list, but was excited. "I hope I can live up that, eh?" Anello said. 
Scott Smith will return and bring depth and leadership to a young but talented corps of linebackers. Smith recorded 12 tackles, including a sack, and played in all 13 games in 
2009. 

Herring will return behind McCarthy at strong safety, and will like Anello hope to make an impact primarily on spe­cial teams. Last season Herring also appeared in every game and tallied 1 7 tackles. 
In order to qualify for a fifth year, players must have remaining NCAA eligibility, have graduated by the end of spring semester, and enroll in graduate studies at Notre Dame. 
"We are happy to officially include all fi.ve players onto our roster," Weis said after the group was approved for another year. "Their leader­ship is greatly appreciated." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Notes: Weis clarifies Chicago Tribune story 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
An article in Sunday's Chicago Tribune reported that Charlie Weis considered leaving Notre Dame after last season, but the Irish coach clarified that state­ment after his Wednesday press conference. 
The article said Weis briefly contemplated a potential return to the NFL as a coordinator, but Weis said that while he addressed the possibility of a job change with his family, he fully intended on staying with the Irish. 
"Not that anything that was in the article was totally wrong. I think that the interpretation of what the intent and from my end and from the story are just a little bit different," Weis said. "The question was clearly asked to me 'Did you talk to your family about leaving.' I said 'Well, yeah.' 
"Uke anyone who has a situa­tion that is uncertain, as any hus­band and father would do, you know, you address it with your wife and address it with your kids and you talk about the what­
:~
us. " 
Weis said if he hadn't addressed the situation with his family. he would have been "neg­ligent in lhisJ responsibility." 

"Did I think I was going to quit 
and walk out the door? That's 
not what I came here for," Weis 
said. "Even in that article, it said 
very clearly that that's not why 
we came here. We came here to 
get Notre Dame back to the top 
of the heap and that's what we 
intend on doing." 
Steaks or hot dogs? 
It's not a done deal, but Weis 
said there's a good chance the 
Blue-Gold game will feature the 
added incentive of a friendly 
wager. 
Last year, the offense won on a 
last-second touchdown, and to 
the victors went the spoils -in 
this case, steaks as the post­
game meal. The defense had to 
manage with hot dogs. 
So will Weis, who will call plays 
Saturday and during the season, 
be hoping the offense can work 
the defense up and down the 
field? 
"Hell yeah," Weis said. "When 
I'm the offensive coordinator, you 
betcha I do. · ''I'm a sore loser. I don't want 
to eat hot dogs, OK?" 
Ones versus ones 
Asked how much of Saturday's game would feature the first­team offense against the first-team defense, Weis simply said, "the majority." 
Last year, the lack of a backup quarterback to Jimmy Clausen forced the Irish into an offense versus defense scrimmage. This season, it is a shortage of offen­sive linemen -or rather, the lack of two complete, cohesive units, Weis said. 
"We had 10 guys to put out there, but a couple of the guys that you would have put in that second offensive line, it would have been a fire drill," We is said. "So what do you do, go put Dayne out there and then every time he goes to pass the ball he's getting hit in the face by some­body right there? 
"We just didn't think that that made a lot of sense." 
Manning the sidelines 
The addition of several new coaches to Weis' staff made headlines this spring, but on Saturday, there will be four even new facers on the sidelines. 
This year's honorary coaches are Justin Tuck, Bertrand Berry, Jeff Faine and Reggie Brooks. They will address the players during Friday's team meeting, Weis said. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Friday, April 17, 2009 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Unveiling Ceremony for The Shirt 2009 TODAY at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore · 
. I 
Festivities begin at 4:00P.M. I Unveiling begins at 5:45P.M. 

• f ---~ . 


Free fc)od (~ drir2ks tLJhile stLpplies last • Remarks by Lou Holtz Emcee Mike Collins • Officer Tim McCarthy, Indiana State Police 
The Shirt student discount $11 with ND ID* 
*limit two shirts per ND student ID, one ID per person 
For tnore i11foi..mation, ·v--isit tlteshi1·t.nd.edu 

Friday, April 17, 2009 
page 13 


events 
By NICHOLAS ANDERSON Scene Wrirer 

An Oscar for Best Original Song, three-time winner of The Source's lyri­cist of the year, three Grammys for Best Rap Album, four Grammys for Best Rap Performance, best selling rap artist twice, NME's best rap act, ranked 82 on Rolling Stone's "The Immortals," named best rapper alive by Vibe in 2008, fastest selling rap album in history, four platinum albums. 
Eminem has a few honors already racked up. 
On April 7, 

Don't miss the chance to see Kate Winslet's intriguing, Oscar-winning per­formance in the post-WWII tale "The Reader" Friday night in DeBartolo Hall. Watch as a fascinating and inappropri­ate relationship develops between an ···• older woman and young boy who meet on not only a physical but also an emo­tional level, further inflamed as the teenage Michael Berg (David Kross) reads stories to his older mistress 
.,Hanna (Winslet). One day Hanna mys­·;teriously disappears only to come back 
•into Michael's life eight years later, when he witnesses her on trial for Nazi war crimes. Witness captivating and life-altering secrets unfold that capture the era of secrecy and surprise that.:. 
;,;: comprised the Second World War. 
but with his newest effort we have to ask, was his act ever really that good? To answer this question, one must start at the beginning. 
"The Slim Shady LP" was released slightly more than ten years ago. After hearing Eminem freestyle on a radio show, Dr. Ore signed him to the label Aftermath and released his first album. With itr.pressive hype surrounding the release following the huge underground success of "I Just Don't Give," the song "My Name Is" delivered. 
In his first album, Eminem was engrossed in his Slim 
When it comes down to it. no one should feel comfortable listening to Eminem ·s first two albums. His early work was rarely fun and would ceratinly be out ofplace at a club. 
Shady persona. Each Eminem song walks a balance released his Six years ago. Eminem was between funny and 
latest single, dark, charming and
unparalleled in his combination of
"We Made troubled, smug and 
You" off of both critical and commercial sympathetic. The his highly success but with his newest effort lyrics jump freely 
anticipated from his drug abuse
we have to ask, was his act ever 
new album to his stunted child­"R e I apse, " really that good? hood, his frustrated which is love life to his broken scheduled for home, and from car­
release May 19. A<i his first official release since 2005, it is hard not to be a bit disappointed. 
The song contains the expected amount of celebrity bashing, profanity and drug references which makes it feel a little dated. Six years ago, Eminem was unparalleled in his combination of both critical and commercial success, 
toonish violence to threats aimed at his family. 
The second single, "Guilty Conscience," continues this fine line between hero and villain as an angel played by Dr. Dre verbally spars with Eminem 's devil on robbery, date rape and even murder. 
The following year, Eminem release his second album, "The Marshall 
In a drama that chronicles the life 
, of the soon-to-be 15 year old·. Magdalena, tales of teenage tragedy· and unexpected complications flood the scene in a typical soap opera· manner. When Magdalena discovers that she cannot fit in her Quinceanera 
.·.·ball gown created for her special 
· coming-of-age party, the truth comes out that she is pregnant. Thrown out of her house with no support from her family or her baby's father, she·. turns to her distant great-granduncle and finds love and a home in surpris­.· ing places. Experience the ins and··· outs of the complex days of .Magdalena, a teenage girl trying to ~bring a sense of order to her con­
;·(~ stantly changing life. 
Mathers LP." Undeniably, "The Real Slim Shady," the first single off the album, made him a household name. 
Controversy surrounded his lyrics: parents found the music sexist, pro­fane, sexually explicit and violent. While these allega­tions hold true, oth­ers found value in his humor and social criticism. Remarkably, after a decade of examining these songs, it is still hard to tell when he is joking. 
Two more songs off his sophomore album stand out as examples. Both "The Way I Am" and "Stan" are incredibly dark and aggressive rants responding to his fame. 
The former is a violent, selfish song where Eminem lashes out at his fans, critics and record label. 
The latter tells the story of an obsessed fan and a compassionate artist. Surprisingly, ..Stan," the least successful song at the time of release, is considered as one of the strongest rap singles ever created because of its poet­ic narrative, sympathetic and personal portrayal of an artbt, exceptional pro­duction and an impressive hook provid­ed by Dido. 
Several components run through his 
Look behind the scenes at the over­whelming pressures young opera ·singers endure when trying to make 
·it to the top. Watch as men and women make or break their careers in auditions far more sophisticated than American Idol's, and compete for chances to win money, fame and an opportunity to sing on the one and only Met stage. Three men steal the show with characterizations ranging from the conflicted fireball (Michael Fabiano), to the attractive over­achiever (Alek Shrader), to the aging underdog (Ryan Smith). Watch as they meet challenges, success, and heartbreak in pursuit of victory. See if these men have what it takes to win in "The Audition.,. 
Co~Utct Ad.riaria Praft at apratt@nd.~du 
first two albums which contribute to Eminem's success; his flow is accessible, the crafty balance between humor and darkness provides a dramatic tension, 
the anger fueling his lyrics is unre­strained without being out of place and the production features Dr. Ore in near perfect form. 
When it comes down to it, no one should feel com­fortable listening to Eminem's first two albums. His early work was rarely 

fun and would certainly be out of place at a club or party. 
At the same time, Eminem really was, for a few years. the voice of a genera­tion; the only problem is most of his audience didn't give him the chance to act as such. 
As he's released more material, EminPm gradually lost some of his grace in vocalizing his anger and began to feel manufactured. 
Today, he feels out of date and appears to be playing catch up with the current music scene. Even with that, the greatness shown on his first two albums cannot be ignored. 
Contact Nicholas Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
Friday, April 17, 2009

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Cardinals stay hot with win over rival Cubs 
Astros edge Pirates behind Berkman's sixth inning homer to lead Houston's rally over Pittsburgh 
his own to make it 6-4. reaction to Vanover's call, Cubs 
Associated Press 

Things didn't go as smoothly manager Lou Piniella said only: 
CHICAGO -Chris Duncan is for Duncan in left field. He failed "What do you want me to say?" back and better than ever -at to catch a popup that led to the Though television replays made the plate, anyway. Cubs' frrst-inning run off of Adam it appear Wainwright (2-0) 
Despite some adventuresome Wainwright and he dropped a received a generous call, he said fielding, the St. Louis Cardinals routine fly to get Wainwright in the pitch "was too close to take." are happy to have Duncan back trouble in the sixth. Making his first start of the in the lineup every day. Wainwright responded to the year for the Cubs, Sean Marshall 
"When he's healthy, he's bases-loaded, one-out situation left after five innings with a 4-3 clutch," manager Tony La Russa by striking out Bradley and get­lead. The bullpen then imploded, said Thursday after Duncan ting Alfonso Soriano to fly out. as has been the case often this atoned for some adventurous "After I dropped that ball and season, wasting Kosuke fielding with a home run, two sin­he was able to get out ofthatjam, Fukudome's three-run homer. gles and three RBis in the that just set the tone," Duncan Aaron Heilman served up Cardinals' 7-4 victory over the said. "I think I broke back and Kahlil Greene's tying homer in Chicago Cubs. then tried to make up for it and the sixth, David Patton (0-1) 
In winning for the seventh time started running hard. I went at it walked pinch-hitter Joe Thurston in eight games, St. Louis struck and didn't slow down, so it kind to lead off the seventh, Neal Cotts first in a 16-game season series of bounced off me. I just flat-out gave up Duncan's run-scoring against its longtime rival. The missed it." single and Angel Guzman allowed Cubs' frustration showed when Said La Russa: "I liked the fact Brian Barden's eighth-inning Milton Bradley was ejected for that (Wainwright) picked up Chris homer. arguing a called strike in the on that play. Chris would have Twice, a perturbed Piniella sixth inning. been walking the streets tonight instructed pitching coach Larry 
St. Louis, which leads the if that leads to the inning that Rothschild to make changes on league in scoring, battered five beats us." the mound. Piniella, who like Chicago pitchers. Duncan, back Instead, Bradley ended up most managers usually makes after missing the second half of being the angry one. such moves himself, later got last season with a degenPrative Ever combative and com­more agitated when asked about disk in his neck, is batting .389 bustible, the Cubs' newest $30 it. with 10 RBis. million acquisition got in umpire "What's the difference whether game that he gets some outs." was trying to bury it down and 
"His toughness is off the Larry Vanover's face after the the pitching coach, the manager, in and left it over the plate." charts," La Russa said. "You see strike-three call. Bradley had the hitting coach or the third­Astros 6, Pirates 3 Pirates manager John Russell it the way he plays, the way he been on his best behavior since base coach ... makes pitching Two at-bats made all the dif­allowed the left-handed Burnett runs the bases, the way he joining the team and had down­changes?" he said. ference for the Houston Astros. to pitch to Berkman, even defends, the way he takes at­played his reputation as a hot­''I'm not trying to make a point The first ended with Lance though right-banders are hitting bats. He's never going to give in." head. about anything. You guys want to Berkman hitting the decisive .326 against him the last two 
Duncan's two-run homer gave He left the clubhouse before the make a big deal out of who home run and the other after seasons compared to .167 by St. Louis a 3-1 lead and he fol­media was allowed to enter and makes pitching changes. lt does­reliever Chris Sampson needed left-handed hitters. lowed Yadier Molina's go-ahead was unavailable for comment. n't matter. \'\'hat matters is when what seemed like a game's Burnett called it "really frus­single in the seventh with a hit of When asked about Bradley's the pitcher comes into the ball-worth of pitches to get a key trating," saying, "I got two quick 
out. outs and let it slip away and 
Berkman made up for an ear­gave the game away." lier missed opportunity with a An inning later, Sampson go-ahead three-run homer in needed 17 pitches before retir­the sixth inning and the Astros ing Sanchez on a fly ball to cen­overcame an early two-run ter during an extended at-bat deficit to beat the Pittsburgh with runners on first and sec­Pirates on Thursday. ond and one out. 
Hunter Pence added a solo Often, a hitter wears down a home run as the Astros won the pitcher during an at-bat that final two games of the three­requires so many pitches. game series. Before that, they'd "I think they brought a whole lost five straight during a 1-6 new case of balls in for that at­start, their worst in 25 seasons. bat," Sampson said. "I threw 
Berkman left the bases loaded everything. I threw my whole by flying out in the fourth inning repertoire. I threw curveballs with the score tied at 3. He early in the at-bat, I threw slid­made up for it with a drive into ers, I threw sinkers, I threw the left-field seats in the sixth four-seamers, I was like, 'Man, I off reliever Sean Burnett (0-1 ), wonder what pitch can I invent who retired two batters before to throw up there?' I didn't 
. Michael Bourn doubled and know if I should go sidearm or Miguel Tejada drew one of underhanded to him."
' '· ~ Houston's seven walks off six
' A couple times, Sampson said, pitchers. he and the 2006 NL batting 
'i Burnett got ahead in the count champion exchanged smiles 1-2 but, successfully throwing that acknowledged the extended Berkman a slider in the dirt, left duel. 
' 
• another slider over the plate. "That was a tough battle,"
'I 
'i "If it doesn't [stay up], I prob­Sampson said. "Thankfully I ably miss it," said Berkman, came out on top. You can't give whose average was down to in. Somebody was going to win . AP . 200. "You don't hit home runs He got the runner over and I got on good pitchers' pitches, it's the out, so I guess we both usually a mistake. I'm sure he won." 



.The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
'i ~ ~ I I ' I, I. li ' !{.; r· > I  LOST & FOUND FOUND: Dental retainer in South Dining Hall the week of March 29. Call 631-6147 to claim. ---------------FoR RENT Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. --------------­ andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCASTI --------------­Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com --------------­Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2·bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www. kramerhouses.com --------------­ 2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300-$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­3537. --------------­Rental House 1 mile from ND. on TRANSPO route. New kitchen, bath, windows & car· pet. 2 bedrooms, 2 living rooms & dining room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. Call Linda 574-288-0168. --------------­ 3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are NO alums. Pis call/text 619·804-3359. --------------­Off-Campus housing at Dublin Village. Irish Crossings. Now up to $100 off per room per month with an application by May 15. Call CES Property Management at 57 4-968·0112. --------------­PERSONAL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not JO it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. For more information. visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­tance-for-pregnant·students. --------------­ If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http:1/osa.nd. edu/health­safety/assault/ --------------­ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301 )977 -5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. --------------­ 
I  
~.  
I  



OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, April 17, 2009 

·················-··::::··:::-·::::::::···:::::::=::::::-:::::··:::::::::::::=--::::::···-····· .········· ···································· 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
······:::::::::::::~-.:::::::::::::::·::-.--·--···~~=::::::::·::::::::-·:::::::::::::::.:::::-::::::::::::::::::-·::::::::::::::::::·::::::··-··-·-··-··-·::::·::::-.....-... -........:::::=:::::::-.__-__-___-.-...:::...____:::::::.:::::::::..... ............. ···················································-··-····· 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
8 
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
1 
2 
3 
4 5 6 
7 
8 9 10 11 12 13 
14 
15 16 
17 18 
19 20 

ITA Men's Tennis Division I Top 25 
team 
Virginia Mississippi Ohio State Georgia Tennessee Southern California Baylor Stanford UCLA Florida Illinois Texas A&M Texas Kentucky Alabama Florida State Pepperdine Arizona Boise State NOTRE DAME Washington Virginia Tech Miami (Fla.} South Carolina Wake Forest 
points 
81 76 73 70 70 67 67 64 61 58 54 53 51 50 49 44 42 36 36 34 33 33 33 32 32 

USILA Division I Men's Lacrosse Top 20 
team 
Princeton Virginia NOTRE DAME Syracuse Cornell UMBC Hofstra Duke Johns Hopkins North Carolina Navy Maryland Colgate Brown Loyola {Md.) Massachusetts Harvard Bucknell Villanova Albany (N.Y.) 

record  points  
10-1  178  
12·1  165  
10-0  152  
9-2  149  
8-2  149  
9-2  135  
8-1  129  
9-3  125  
5-4  106  
9-4  98  
9-3  86  
6-5  66  
9-3  65  
9-2  58  
7-4  57  
7-3  57  
5-4  44  
7-6  29  
8-4  10  
6-4  9  

IWLCA Division I Women's 
Lacrosse Top 15 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 
7 
8 
9 10 11 
12 13 
14 15 
team 
Northwestern Maryland Penn North Carolina Duke Georgetown Princeton Syracuse NOTRE DAME 
Virginia 
Boston U. 
Vanderbilt 
Ohio State Dartmouth Stanford 
points 
400 
375 
365 
327 
311 
309 
282 266 240 
214 
185 
175 
159 
143 128 

around the dial 
MLB 

St. Louis at Chicago (N.L.) 
2:20 p.m., WGN 
NHL Playoffs 
Philadelpia at Pittsburgh 7 p.m., Versus 
NFL 


Fonner Oakland Raiders coach John Madden speaks during his enshrinement into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio on August 5, 2006. His last day as a broadcast analyst was Super Bowl XUII. 
Madden retires from broadcasting 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -John Madden's last game as a football announcer was a thrilling Super Bowl decided in the final sec­onds. 
The perfect ending to a run as one of sports' m0st popular broadcasters, now that Madden called it a career Thursday. Yet it didn't fit Madden's style to think about his retirement that way. 
''I'm a grinder," he said on his Bay Area radio show. "You just grind and get through it and when it's all over, you think about it. You don't rush into any decisions." 
Madden's exuberance for football and blue-col­lar persona endeared him to TV viewers for three decades. Boom! As sudden as his signature call, he's leaving midway through a six-year contract with NBC's "Sunday Night Football." 
"I think his work ethic and passion and love for the game made him apart from everybody else," said longtime broadcast part­ner Pat Summerall. 
Madden said his health is fine, but at the age of 73, he wanted to spend more time with his family. I lis 50th wedding anniver­sary is this fall, and his live grandchildren are old enough to notice when he's gone. 
"The thing that made it hard is not because I'm second guessing: 'Is it the right decision?' But I enjoyed it so damn much," Madden said. "I enjoyed the game and the players and the coaches and the film and the travel and everything." 
Cris Collinsworth will replace Madden, moving over from the network's studio show, NBC Sports chief Dick Ebersol said. 
Collinsworth  filled  in  
when  Madden  took  a  
game off last October.  

Ebersol called Madden "the absolute best sports broadcaster who ever 
lived." 
Madden traveled by bus because of a fear of flying, and with the two Bay Area teams struggling and not hosting any Sunday night games, he would be on the road and away from his family the entire season. 
Not that Madden expects to sit at home all the time. He'll keep using the bus and stay busy with his many endorsements. His "Madden NFL Football" is the top-selling sports video game of all time. 
Still, he noted this wiJl be his first season away from the sport since he was a freshman in high school. 

IN BRIEF Celtics' Ainge hospitalized
after heart attack 
BOSTON -Boston Celtics gener­al manager Danny Ainge was hos­pitalized Thursday after suffering what the team described as a minor heart attack. 
The team issued a brief state­ment saying that Ainge, 50, was taken to a Boston hospital but pro­vided few other details. 
"Danny Aingc is recovering at Massachusetts General Hospital after having a minor heart attack. He is recovering nicely," the team said. "Mr. Ainge is expected to 
remain in the hospital for  a  few  
days."  
A  spokeswoman  for  

Massachusetts General Hospital referred comment to the team. The news was first reported by WCVB, a Boston TV station. 
"All of Celtics Nation is thankful that Danny got incredible medical care so quickly and so effectively," Celtics owner Wyc Grousbeck said. 
Castroneves tax evasion 
trial still incomplete 
MIAMI -A federal jury reached a partial verdict Thursday in the tax evasion trial of Brazilian race car driYer and "Dancing With The Stars" champ Helio Castroneves, but was hung up on several counts. 
Federal Judge Donald Graham said he would not immediately read the verdicts on two tax evasion counts against Castroneves and told jurors to continue deliberating on four other tax evasion counts and one conspiracy count. The jurors left without taking further action at the end of their fifth day of delibera­tions. They were expected to return Friday to continue deliberating. 
Castroneves, 33, is charged with conspiring with his sister and lawyer to evade more than $2.3 mil­lion in U.S. income taxes. 
The jury said it also reached a partial verdict on eharges against Katiucia Castroneves, 35, who is her brother's business manager. 
Garnett could miss 
playoffs with injury WALTHAM, Mass. -The Big Three is down to Two. 
Celtics star Kevin Garnett, the cen­terpiece of Boston's 2008 champi­onship and a key to its hopes of a repeat, could miss the playoffs because of a knee injury that has limited him to four games over the final two months of the season. 
Celtics coach Doc Rivers said Thursday that Garnett will not be ready ((>r Game 1 against the Chicago Bulls and possibly won't be back at all. 
"It's not official that he's out for the entire playoffs, but it's oflicial as far as I'm concerned." Hivers said before practice at the team's workout facili­ty. "I just don't see how. I hope I'm wrung, but I just don't see it." 
Garnett has been the Celties' inspi­rational leader since joining them in a 2007 trade that. completed thf' new Big Three and propelled the fran­chise to its record 17th NBA title. 
--~~~-----------------------------------------... 
Friday, April 17, 2009 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
-~--~~~ 
MLB 

Indians spoil Yankees' opener atnew stadium 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig and other stars from the New York Yankees' famous pinstriped past would have been embarrassed. 
After an 85-year run in a stadium that was home to 26 World Series champions, the Yankees opened baseball's fanciest and priciest ballpark Thursday with a humiliating 10-2 loss to the Cleve land 

I ~ 
I, Indians. 
"It felt like we disappointed quite a few people today," Johnny Damon said. 
Fans in the sellout crowd of 48,271 and players alike bub­bled about unprecedented amenities on a picture-perfect sunny afternoon. New York's hitters then fizzled and its bullpen came apart in the for­mal debut of the new Yankee Stadium, a $1.5 billion monu­ment to the Yankees' wealth and power. 
Jhonny Peralta broke a 1-all tie in the seventh with a two­run double off Jose Veras, and Grady Sizemore hit a grand slam into the right-field seats off Damaso Marte. 


By the time Victor Martinez's solo homer capped the nine-run inning, just as the shadow of the famous frieze was about to creep past home plate, angry spectators who paid up to $2,625 list per ticket taunted the Yankees with chants of, "We want Swisher!" 
That was a reference to New York right fielder Nick Swisher, who pitched a score­less inning during a blowout loss at Tampa Bay on Monday. 


"It's not how you want to start a new stadium, but one game is not going to make the history of this Yankee Stadium," manager Joe Girardi said. 
Cleveland, whose only Series titles were won in 1920 and 1948, enjoyed its accom­plishment against a super­power whose $201 million payroll dwarfs the $82 million the Indians spent. 
"To come in here and do what we did is something we'll always remember," Sizemore said. 
On April 18, 1923, Ruth homered as New York opened the original Yankee Stadium with a 4-1 win over the Boston Red Sox. The ballpark, built for $2.5 million and con­sidered grand at the time, was quickly dubbed "The House that Ruth Built." 
The opening of the new house drew a celebrity-filled crowd that wasn't happy with the result. 

I 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, who has attend­ed few games since becoming increasingly frail, watched from his box to the left of home plate, with baseball commissioner Bud Selig and , I 
'I developer Donald Trump
J among his guests. 
I 
Current and former New York City mayors Michael Bloomberg and Rudy Giuliani watched from the first row to the plate side of the Yankees dugout in some of the most expensive seats, while former Yankees pitcher David Wells sat in the bleachers. New York Archbishop Timothy 
Dolan was on hand, as was rapper Jay-Z. 
They saw the Yankees botch numerous chances in the first five innings, when they stranded 10 runners while going 0-for-7 with men in scoring position against Cliff Lee (1-2). The primary cheers were for Jorge Posada, who hit the first home run in the ballpark's history, a fifth­inning drive that that landed in Monument Park behind center field. 
''I'm going to remember the home run, no question about it, but right now it's a little disappointing," Posada said. 
CC Sabathia, pitching in pinstripes for the first time since signing a $161 million, seven-year contract, allowed an RBI double to Kelly Shoppach in the fourth just after third baseman Cody Ransom threw out Peralta at the plate on Ben Francisco's grounder. But Sabathia left after 122 pitches and 5 2/3 innings in his first start against his former team 
"The park still looks kind of like the old stadium," he said. "But it's a weird feeling, too, going out, you know, it being a clean slate, a new era of Yankee baseball." 
After Edwar Ramirez and Phil Coke finished the sixth, Veras {0-1) failed to retire anyone in the seventh, walk­ing Mark DeRosa and allow­ing a double to Martinez before Peralta's double into the right-field corner. 
"I feel bad. Better to happen now than later in the season. I know I can be better than that," Veras said. 
Marte hit Shin-Sao Choo with a pitch, loaded the bases when he fielded Francisco's sacrifice and threw too late to third before giving up an RBI single to Shoppach and walk­ing Trevor Crowe one out later with the bases loaded, making it 5-1. 
"I didn't throw the ball inside or outside. I threw it down the middle and I paid for it," Marte said. 
Steinbrenner, who watched the first five innings from an outdoor seat in his luxury suite, quickly went inside. From the pricey seats to the $5 obstructed-view bleacher spots, fans started emptying out. 
It was the second ballpark opening in New York in a four-day span, following the Mets' 6-5 loss to San Diego on Monday night in the first game at $800 million Citi Field. 
Coming off two poor out­ings, Lee (1-2) allowed one run and seven hits in six innings in a matchup of the last two AL Cy Young Award winners. 
"You could feel that it was not just a normal game," Lee said. "But for me, I've got to kind of filter that stuff out and focus on executing pitches." 
Fans were entertained at the start of hourlong pregame ceremonies by the· West Point Marching Band, which played the "Washington Post March" and "Stars and Stripes Forever" by John Philip Sousa, who led the Seventh Regiment Band before the first game at the old stadium. 

NBA 
Starters may return to Magic 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Orlando coach Stan Van Gundy said injured starters Rashard Lewis and Hedo Turkoglu might be able to play in the Magic's frrst-round playoff series against the Philadelphia 76ers beginning Sunday. 
Those injuries combined with spotty play during the regular season's final weeks raised con­cern for a franchise with a hL-,tory of early playoff exits. 
"I don't know how ready we are," Magic guard Rafer Alston said. "We have some days in­between here and hopefully we can refocus." 
Turkoglu missed the last two games with a sprained left ankle, and Lewis missed the last three with right knee tendinitis. Van Gundy said Lewis wanted to play in the regular-season finale Wednesday night but told him during warm-ups his knees weren't ready. 
"I think he will be ready, and I hope he will be, but I just don't know at this point," Van Gundy said. "I think they'll be out there, I do. But until it's game time and they're out there, I don't know for 
.. 

sure. 
The Magic (59-23) fmished with the second-best record in fran­chise history, one win shy of the 1995-96 team led by Shaquille O'Neal and Penny Hardaway. But there are plenty of questions sur­rounding Orlando heading into the postseason. 
Until last year, Orlando hadn't been past the first round of the playoffs since 1996. The franchise still hasn't made it past the sec­ond round since that year, when they were swept in four games by Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls in the conference finals. 
"It's up to us to bring it in the playoffs," forward Tony Battie said. "With everything on the line, with the intensity up, it's up to us to get it done this year." 
Orlando was having problems before the injuries surfaced. The Magic lost to New York, 
Toronto, New Jersey and Milwaukee -all teams that missed the playoff..., -in the final two weeks, costing them the East's No. 2 seed. Poor defensive play, turnovers and lack of effort made Orlando look anything but the team with the league's best record back in January. 
"The past few weeks, we've been turning the ball over too much," guard Anthony Johnson said. "That's a concern. We have to take care of the ball and play some solid defense if we want to be successful in the playoffs." 
The Magic's funk led to a sea­son-high, three-game losing streak before beating Charlotte in the finale Wednesday night. Even if the Magic get Lewis and Turkoglu back, it may take some time before Orlando can find its groove. 
"The biggest thing is we have to just play. We don't need to be out there thinking too much about what we need to do and what we should do," center Dwight Howard said. 
Why Holy Cross College? 
Notre Dame is not n,r everyone. 
I know, I'm an alum. So are dozens of my colleagues on the thculty, sran: and administration here at Holy Cross College. 
While this may sound strange in the Observer, you've got to admit that it's true. As wonderful as Notre Dame is, not everyone would thrive at. a large, interna­tional research university. 
Holv Cross is not for ~vcf\ont•
.. . 

either. 
It all depends on what a student wants. Not everyone would thrive in a small, relationship-based, liberal arts college. But students who are a good tit for Holy Cross do thrive-and since so manv of our 
" 

students have strong ties to Notre 
Dmne~'""Hol)' Cross may be a 
J!.\'rfect Ot for vour brother. sister, friend, ~on ordau~;htf.~r. 
Our students h:wc gone on to muny top graduate schools including Comell. Dartmouth and Harvard. Others have entered exciting careers in business, education, st•rvice, and g<wern­mcnt. Some put their educa­tion to \vork in raising children and being active participants in their communities. A great number have gone on to profess vows in a religious community, especially our tlworite one, the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
What they all have in common is that they benefit from their ground­ing in t.he liberal arts. ·'the Lost Tools of Leaming'' as Dorothy 
By Robert Kloska, Nl> '90 
Sayers calls them. A true liberal arts ~ducat ion is the most liberating education possible. Students learn how to ask the right questions. 
lfs true thai over the years we've 
been rather quiet about our success. The Brothers of Boly Cross have a long~standing tradition of humble service. \Vc love them and respect this attitude. But now they've put us laypeople in charge of recruit­ing students. And we feel that the best approach is t.o hmg a little. So let's just say that after more than t(mr decades of continued success, we're rather confident about what we can do fcJr our students. 
Although we're very proud of our own accomplishments, we've got 
to admit that most of us also cheer. cheer f6r old Notre Dmnc! For years we have marched in the band, done push·ups at football games, drilled in ROTC, and worked to­gether in many student clubs and organizations. 
And yet. we arc very distinct. ,<\t Holy Cwss, we have tw·elvc varsity athletic tean1s that play in the NAJA. Although this year we
... .
~ 

have defeated teams from "the'' Ohio State Univcrsitv.-and the UniversityofMichigan(bothintablc tennis!) sufticc it to say that ESPN Gamedny has never visited our campus. \Vhen you play an NAIA spurt. you arc in it f()r the love of the game. 
It's fhnny t.hat many still think of us as the school of "Rudy.'' The legend of Rudy is a wonderful story and W\Z ndmit to having at least one autographed Rudy poster proudly dispkryeJ on our cam­pus. Hut please remember that the 
was set in the year lens. 

Thirty  four  years  later,  we  
are  no  longer  tht·  same  place  
we  were  back  then.  Yes,  

dozens of students still success­fully transfer from Holy Cross to Notre Dame every year. However. the majority of our students come to Holy Cross College fully intend­ing to stay. 
·J1:.,day we are a liberal arts Catholic college following the educational traditions of Blessed 
Basil Moreuu, the man who sent 
Fr. Sorin to tag al()ng with the six t'loly Cross Brothers who finmdt•d Notre Dame. (Okay, maybe Sorin did more than just •·tag along.'') We oner a unique experiential curriculum that includes professional internships. service learning, a senior Capstone pr~icct ami a global perspective experience at one of the many CSC Brothers. appostolates around the globe. 
But even now. alteraU the improvc­mentsonourcampus the pastdccadt~ or so, we have stayed true to our mission, It is virtually impossible ftJr a student to take a class without the professor kno\\,'ing his or her name. Some things never change. 
If you know of a high school student \vho might benefit from the type of education we otTer, please send him or her our way! As is our tradition, we generally accept 
applications on a rolling basis. 
Like Notre Dame. Holy Cross is not tor everyone. hut for those who lit, the sky is the limit! 
For inltlrnlation call Vince Duke at: (574) 239-8407 or visit: www.hcc-nd.edu. 
Friday, April 1 7, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF !OJ/C£!1 Of §Ae([f,flllfflt 
~ ~ ·. 

Irish seek fourth Big East title 
ByALEXWEST 
Sports Writer 
The defending Big East champion Irish will put their title on the line when they compete in the Big East Championship this Sunday at the Jovita Golf Club in Dade City, Fla. 
Last year, Notre Dame sur­prised heavily favored Louisville to win its third Big East Championship in school history. Once again, the No. 15 Cardinals are the favorites, but Irish coach Susan Holt says her team has been there before. 
"Last year they were sup­posed to kill us," Holt said. "We ended up winning by nine strokes." 
Even with the title of defending champions, the team is looking at this week­end's championship as just another tournament. 
"It's been one of our main goals all year to win the Big East Championship," Holt said. "But, there's really no need to bring anything more to the round than we normal­ly would." 
Holt, previously head coach at the University of South Florida, will be making a homecoming of sorts when she returns to the Jovita Golf Club, the Bulls' home course. 

Trying to duplicate her strong 2008 performances will be junior Annie Brophy who took home medalist hon­ors at last year's tournament. Brophy also took home all­Big East honors last season. 
Holt's only concern with the team this year is that it hasn't been playing up to expectations all spring. 
"We haven't been playing particularly well this spring and we know that." Holt said. "If we can find a way to play up to our potential, we could once again bring home the championship." 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 



AJi·eewill ojfering wifi support the Andrew Bum'J:is Scholarship rund. hl assi.~f Yo!re Dwne undr~rgradttales
C-M 
who work abroad with duklro1
Campus Ministry 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles drop doubleheader
.) 
il 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 'l Sports Writer 
\ 
\ The Belles' run towards an MIAA championship title hit a speed bump as they
} l l 
\ dropped both games of a 
~ 
,\ doubleheader to Hope 
\ 
College on Wednesday.

~ 
I The losses were the first 
' 
for Saint Mary's (22-6, 6-4 MIAA) at home in almost a month and come just as its bid for the MIAA playoffs seemed to be falling in place. 


The team managed just two runs total between the games, which is a disap­pointing number consider­ing the dominant offensive 
'· numbers it has put up this 
I season. 
~ 
"We struggled a little bit with hitting but I think· we have a good attitude so I think we will be ready for our next game," freshman third baseman Kate Mitchell said. "It's more mental than it is physical and I think with a day off it will help us regroup our­selves. We have been look­ing for the end of the sea-


SMC TENNIS 
' -·: 
'--~---..·... 
son for a while now." 
Even with the losses, however, Saint Mary's still controls its own destiny with four league games remaining in the season. As it stands now, the Belles are hanging on to the 
"We struggled a little bit with hitting but I think we have a good attitude so I think we will be ready for our next game." 
Kate Mitchell Belles freshman 
fourth spot in the stand­ings, but they still need to win three of their next four games to avoid being left out of postseason play. 
The Belles hope to right the ship against Adrian when the two teams meet Saturday. This will be no 
cross-town rival Bethel College. 
"We played Bethel, which was a solid win for us," Gebert said. "We have been down lately, and a win was crucial to our overall confi­dence." 
"We should have won and it was an important conference match for us. •· 
Camille Gerbert Belles junior 
Even after the win against Bethel College, this weekend's match proves to be of utmost importance to the success of the remainder of the season. 
"If we want any chance at a good draw for the conference tournament, we need to pull through with a win this Saturday," Gebert said. 
As a team of all sophomores 

easy feat as the Bulldogs boast an impressive 29-3 record on the season and are coming off a sweep of Calvin College. If that was­n't daunting enough, Adrian was recently named the top-ranked team in the NCAA Division III Central Region. 
Looking further into the future, the schedule doesn't get much easier as Saint Mary's finishes its MIAA schedule with a double­header against two-time reigning champion Trine University. The Thunder boasts a 23-7 record and is coming off two close wins over Albion. 
Despite the high level of competition that awaits the Belles, Mitchell feels her team will be ready. 
"We are not nervous, we are not scared, we are a confident team and I think this weekend will prove that," she said. 
The doubleheader against Adrian is scheduled to begin at 1 p.m. tomorrow. 
Contact Chris Michalski at 
jmichal2@nd.edu 
SaintMary'sseeks second MIAA win 
and one junior, the Belles boast a large amount of young talent. 
"We need to work on our confidence in singles play," Gebert said. 
At the forefront of the com­petition at this weekend's event will be the doubles tan­dem of Gebert and sophomore Jillian Hurley. Jessica Kosinski and Betsy Reed will hold down the No. 2 doubles spot for the Belles. 
"It will be important to start strong and win at least two of the three doubles points," Gebert said. 
Aside from delivering in both singles and doubles play, the Belles have a few other areas on which to work to secure the win on Saturday. 
"We need to close matches, expand on leads, fight back from deficits -all the things we know how to do," Gebert said. "We must implement them into our match play." 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Friday, April 17, 2009 

MEN'S GOLF 
Irish set to make title run at Big East Champs 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Th(~ Irish have been unable to put together a solid string of rounds over the past month, resulting in three straight disap­pointing finishes outside the top 
10. And Notre Dame coach Jim Kubinski knows that will be the key at this weekend's Big East Championship tournament if his team plans on snagging a top fin­ish. 
"We don't need the spectacular. We need only a focused and con­sistent effort," he said. 
The Irish will need to put all the pieces together if they are going to mount a serious charge at the Big East Championships at Lake Jovita Golf and Country Club in Dade City, Fla. Notre Dame captured its last Big East Championship in 2006 under Kubinski. That year, the tourna­ment was also held at the Lake Jovita Golf and Country Club. 
"Lake Jovita was 'our place' the last time we competed there in winning the [2006 Big East Championship]," Kubinski said. "We have great, great memories of doing something rarely done. We came from 12 shots back on the last day to beat Louisville after firing.16-under that day. We'll have positive vibes." 
The Irish have struggled in recent events, including back-to­hack lOth place finishes at the FAU Spring Break Championship and the Robert Kepler Intercollegiate tournament. 
While individual golfers have excelled, a complete team effort has been lacking for the Irish since they grabbed top-five fin­ishes at a pair of events over Spring Break. 
"From one to five we're as good or better than every team in our conference," Kubinski said. "It's just a matter of playing solidly over 54 hol~s. The team understands that." 
The lack of consistency can be chalked to up to an extraordinar­ily young line-up, featuring no seniors and only one junior, Doug Fortner, who has seen regular action his entire collegiate career. 
"We've gained a lot of experi­ence this season," Kubinski said. "If you look at our roster, just about every player other than [Fortner] either played their first event as a college player or dou­bled or tripled what they had played previously." 
Despite their youth, leaders have emerged in the ranks of underclassmen. Freshman Max Scodro has played in five tourna­ments this spring with a solid 
76.29 scoring average, including an eighth-place finish at the Caputo Invitational. Sophomore Jefl' Chen has also matured into a strong leader, carrying a team­best 74.67 scoring average. 
"I saw [Chen's] confidence grow with each event," Kubinski said. "He now knows he can compete at this level. I've really appreciated his approach and his consistency. Even when he does­n't have his golf swing where he'd like it, he doesn't panic. He just goes out with what he has and competes." 
The 7,153-yard, par 72 Lake Jovita course will be the setting for the Big East Championships, which begin Sunday morning and conclude Tuesday evening. The Irish hope to duplicate their success from the last time they played on this course. 
"Lake Jovita is a good test," Kubinski said. "There are some very good holes but a player can make some birdies if he hits the shots. I like what we're bringing to the event from one to five in our lineup." 
Still, Kubinski understands that nothing can be taken for granted, especially considering Notre Dame's struggles this spring. 
"The guys know this is it," Kubinski said. "They know what's at stake and how an entire season of work comes down to this. We don't see it as pressure, though. We see it as opportunity." 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


I 
.\ 
( .. 
'I 
. I 


By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will continue their search for a second MIAA Conference victory when it faces Kalamazoo this Saturday in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
"Just like Calvin and Albion, we know that Kalamazoo is one of the better teams in the conference and they play like it," junior captain Camille Gebert said. 
The Belles (6-7, 1-2 MIAA) got their first conference win at the expense of Alma earlier in the season, but tough losses against Calvin and Albion have set them back since then. 
"Our match against Albion last Saturday was very disap­pointing," Gebert said. "We should have won, and it was an important conference match for us." 
Despite a disappointing overall record, Saint Mary's has some momentum coming off Wednesday's win over 



.. 

Friday, April 17, 2009 

The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish enter tourney on top 
about the seedings," he said. much it means to his team toBy ALEX BARKER "We will have to beat the best get started on the right foot. 
Assistant Sports Editor 

teams to win it." "We really want to start each 
Notre Dame has handily match out well in the dou­
For the 13th time in the past defeated each of its conference bles," he said. "We are just14 seasons, No. 4 Notre Dame opponents so far this season going to worry about how we will enter the Big East and the team knows what play and not our opponents."Championship tournament as stands in the way of another The Irish have had a the top seed as it title. tremendous season thus far begins its run for "We had 5-and have high expectations for a second straight 2 matches the postseason. After begin­title today in "We have had a with both ning the season ranked out­Tampa, Fla. really good year up s 0 u t h side the top-15, the Irish wast­
The Irish (21-4, Florida and ed little time climbing up to
to this point.·· 
3-0 Big East) DePaul so the No. 3 spot after victories earned an opening we know over Stanford and Baylor in round bye as a Jay Louderback they are the ITA National Indoor cham­top-four seed and Irish coach very good," pionships in February. will take the court Louderback "We have had a really good for the first time said. "There year up to this point," said today at 9 a.m. are also Louderback. "Our schedule against Pittsburgh. The some other good teams we was very tough and I think our Panthers knocked off could face in the draw." kids did a great job each time Cincinnati 4-3 in first round For the most part, when the we played."eompetition yesterday. Irish have played well this sea­If the heavily favored Irish 
The Irish have had good sue­son, they have come away get past Pittsburgh, they will cess in this position, taking with the victory. And the key to move on to face the winner of eight titles· in 12 previous tries their success has undoubtedly the Marquette-Rutgers as the top seed, but coach Jay been the doubles portion of matchup in the quarterfinalsLouderback isn't getting the match. The team is 1-3 on on Saturday.caught up in hype. the season in matches where it 
"Our goal is to win the Big hasn't clinched the doubles Contact Alex Barker at East so we really don't worry point. Louderback knows how abarkerl @nd.edu 
MLB 
Dodgers defeat Giants for fifth straight victory 
and four walks. He also hit
Associated Press 
two batters and struck out 
LOS ANGELES -Rafael four. Furcal hit a leadoff home run Last Friday in his season and the Los Angeles Dodgers debut, he gave up four runs beat the San Francisco Giants and seven hits over four 7-2 Thursday night for their innings in a 7-3 loss at San fifth straight victory. Diego. 
Eric Stults (2-0) allowed two Zito, in the third year of a runs and five hits, Casey Blake seven-year, $126 million con­and pitch-hitter Doug tract, is 21-32 with a 4.95 Mientkiewicz each had two ERA in 6 7 starts for the RBis, and Matt Kemp hit a Giants. Last season, the 2002 run-scoring triple, helping AL Cy Young Award winner send San Francisco to its sixth gave up 102 walks, struck out straight loss. 120 batters and lost 17 games 
It's the first time the Giants -his worst totals over a full have lost their first six road season in the majors. He also games since moving west with became the first Giants pitch­the Dodgers after the 195 7 er since Jesse Burkett in 1890 season. The last time they to start a season 0-8, accord­dropped their first six on the ing to the Elias Sports Bureau. road was in 1947 -the year Zito left in the sixth after Jackie Robinson made his big nicking Russell Martin with a league debut with the pitch and walking the next Brooklyn Dodgers. two batters. All three scored, 
Three-time All-Star Barry as Brandon Medders gave up Zito (0-2) had another rough Blake's saerifice fly and start, allowing six runs over Mientkiewicz's two-run double five-plus innings on four hits into the right field corner. 

$t.arting. at 
. $29 400 
. I· . 

Use your Ford Employee DiscountM d 
on any new az a 4YR/50,000 Mile Maintenance Included on ALL new BMW's 
•Service On Most Makes and Models 
BASNEY IMPORTS-MAZDA/BMW ·From oil changes to major repairs-
www.basneyimports.com 
we can do it all! 

55203 State Road 933 North 
• Free shuttle service SOUTH BEND (2 miles north of Notre Dame) 
·Ask about our rewards program 574.272.8504 ·Certified Body Shop for all makes &models 
Auten Rd BASNEY IMPORTS * Darden Rd 
"" 
a-. 
"'CJ 
a: 
V\
Cleveland Rd 
-



ALL Notre Dame Faculty &Staff 
receive Employee Pr1cing! 
BASNEY HONDA 
www.basneyhonda.com 
3820 N. Grape Road 
MISHAWAKA (Corner of Grape &Edison) 
574.256.5550 
"'CJ Cl: 
DayRd 
Ql 
Q.
., 
\,:1 
-
Edison Rd 

*
BASNEV HONDA 


I 

Bookstore 
continued from page 24 

in this outcome as enchantEe cruised to an easy 21-3 vic­tory over Goodnight Moon in a game that took less than 20 minutes. 
EnchantEe opened up a 5-0 lead early and never looked back from there. Leading 11­1 at halftime, enchantEe out­
played  and  outhustled  
Goodnight from  start to fin­ 
ish.  

"We got owned," Goodnight Kristi Braunlich from captain Katie Kohler com­Goodnight said. "We just mented after liked to keep the game. up with the "Goodnight game after Bookstore." ..My horoscope said I playing in high 
However, the school."
was going to have a 
senior-laden Meanwhile,
jive-star day today.··
team from enchantEe Saint Mary's attributed their was still happy Sarah Smith success to their to have played number one
enchantEe player
in the tourna-fan, sophomore ment. Erica Ramirez. 
"We knew "Erica we were up against some Ramirez motivates us with serious basketball players," her bongo beat," Sarah 
Smith said. "Also, my horo­scope said I was going to have a five-star day today." 
It was right. 
"We'd like to thank the other team for their kind­ness," Saint Mary's junior Megan Hooper said. "[The 
tournament  is)  all about  
camaraderie."  
Smith  summed  up  

enchantEe's feelings of the game best, simply saying: "It was good." 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 
NHL 

Blackhawks take down Flames in overtime 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -The Chicago Blackhawks waited seven long years to get back to the playoffs. In a matter of sec­onds, thanks to Martin Havlat, they had a victory. 
Havlat took a pass from Dave Bolland and his quick wrist shot from between the circles 12 seconds into over­time Thursday night beat Miikka Kiprusoff and gave the Blackhawks a rousing 3­2 victory. 
"It doesn't matter who scored the goal. We got the first game the hard way," Havlat said. "I know (Andrew) Ladd was in front. I took the pass from (Dave) Bolland and went to the net." 
After tying it late in regu­lation, Havlat delivered the third-fastest overtime goal in playoff history, and sent the towel-waving crowd at the United Center into a frenzy. 
"We were patient, sticking to the plan until the end. There wasn't planning going into overtime," Havlat said. 
"I  was  shooting to  score  a  
goal."  
Calgary  coach  Mike  

Keenan said there could have been interference called on the play. 
"I believe it was Ladd who did not try to stop his move­ment toward the net and that's goaltender interfer­ence," Keenan said. "However, the officials saw it 
different or didn't make the call because of the excite­ment of overtime." 
Game 2 of the Western Conference quarterfinal series is Saturday night in Chicago. 
"We can expect them to come out with a better game," said Chicago's Cam Barker, who tied it at 1 in the second. "It might have taken us a little bit to get into this game, but once we did, we started making more 
Ipays." 
Mike Cammalleri gave Calgary a 2-1 lead about 4 minutes into the final period when he scored on a 2-on-1 break, taking a nice pass from Daymond Langkow. 
But Chicago got even with 
5:33 left when Havlat scored on his own rebound after Kiprusoff stopped his initial shot from the right circle. 
David Moss opened the scoring for the Flames in the first period. 
Havlat was 3 seconds off the NHL record of 9 seconds set by Brian Skrudland for Montreal in 3-2 victory over Calgary on May 18, 1986, in the Stanley Cup finals. J.P. Parise of the Islanders scored in 11 seconds of OT against the Rangers in 1975, and Chicago's Pit Martin also scored at 12 seconds in 1972 against Pittsburgh. 
Kiprusoff finished with 25 saves, including one on Bolland to preserve the tie in the closing seconds of regu­lation. Chicago's Nikolai 
Khabibulin, who has a 22-5­2 regular-season record against the Flames and beat them in the 2004 Stanley Cup finals while with Tampa Bay, made 23 stops. 
"He (Havlat) has scored a lot of big goals for us this year," Khabibulin said. "Tonight he put us on his back." 
Chicago won the regular­season series 4-0, outscoring the Flames 19-7, but Calgary's physical play from the outset Thursday night showed that the regular sea­son has little bearing once the postseason starts. 
"We established a pretty good road game to start with, but we couldn't sustain it in the third period when it was most necessary," Keenan said. "And to win on the road, you have to be able to push back when there is a momentum. You look after the details and stay assertive and stay forceful in terms of your defensive posture and not get on your heels a little bit, which I think we did." 
The Blackhawks have only 10 players with postseason experience and it took a while for them to adjust. 
Barker's tying score in the second came as he skated along the left circle and sent a wrist shot past Kiprusoff, who was screened on the play by teammate Anders Erikssson. 
Ex-Blackhawk Rene Bourque delivered a crush­ing hit on 20-year-old 
Chicago star Patrick Kane, sending him into the boards and then to the ice in the second period, an example of the approach applied by the Flames. 
But the Hawks began to match the physical play as the second period pro­gressed and Barker's goal gave them a lift to carry into the final period. Kane had a breakaway attempt with 3 7 seconds left in the period but Kiprusoff flicked it away at the last second with his glove. 
Moss, parked in front of the net, chopped a shot past Khabibulin-the score com­ing after a 3-on-2 for the Flames. Craig Conroy took the first shot that bounced off Khabibulin before Curtis Glencross retrieved it and pushed it toward the goal where Moss converted at 
8:38 of the first. 
Chicago had a first-period power play opportunity after Kiprusoff flipped the puck over the glass for a delay of game penalty, but the Blackhawks couldn't con­vert. 
Chicago's Jonathan Toews was assessed a double minor for high-sticking, giving the Flames a 4-minute power play that carried over into the first 28 seconds of the second period. But Calgary, which was 0-for-43 on the power play over its final 10 regular-season games, failed again with the extra man, getting off only one shot. 



..... . .. . 
~ 
•
..

Eat well. Be happy. .. 
•
• 

e~O'J c:L JHCU..:I-Jr-t.Ja..fv.IJt~ a.rrt2{J oj tfr-ESJ.1 01'~/e!..J • 
..

hi8-" f/..J-4../r/y. jood.S. •

•
•

• •• ~--------1 
•.. C.c~-ix 
FEATURING Breakfast served a!! day
••• ~ )( J.or a-. t..l 
micL-b)f:£k ~.$r.­
House-made soups, salads, and sandwiches
•
• 

Gourmet pizzas
£very Wednl?Sday ,. enioY 3 g\ass
• 
• 

or tott\eoffln~ w\ne at 
Great wlne selection!
• 
.. 

Dinner specials Wednesday-Saturday
50°/o offl
•
• 

Ask about our catering!
• 
• 
.. 
•

• 

lo<ated in los<ana ParkShoppingCentre • 303 Florence Ave., Granger, IN 46530
•

• E-mail: info@uptownkitchen.net • Web: www.UptownKitchen.net
• 
•
•
•
•
HOURS 
•
•

Sunday... fuesday;7 a.m; ~ 2p.m. 
•
•

Wednesday-Saturday;? a.m.-9p.m. 
•
• 

574.968.3030 •••• 
•

Reservations acceptedfor any meal. 
• 




Friday, April 17, 2009 
page 21

The Observer + SPORTS 
You've Come aLong Way! 
Announcing the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union Student Relocation Loan. 
.90%
Low Rate 

APR
of only 

Apply today! 
New Ownership 
.. IOOVISA,,
Readyfor· 

Gift Card Fall2009 Lease Signing Bonus 
Multi Million Dollar Renovation 
ft)rn1erly Turtle Creek Apartments 

NBA 
continued from page 24 
game. His goal is to impress 
enough people and raise his 
draft stock to the point where 
he can leave Notre Dame for 
good. 
"Right now, as me and coach 
said, I don't think we're going 
into this thing 50 percent," 
Harangody said. "We're going 
to go full speed. We're going in 
to go into it, not to just see if I 
need to improve on anything. 
We're just going to go and try 
to get this thing done." 
Harangody said there is no 
definitive pick number that'll 
make him jump for the pros 
and that he might not make his 
decision until a few days 
before the June 15 deadline. 
It's a decision he'll make after 
receiving feedback from the 
teams he works out for, his 
coach and his family. 
"I've talked to a lot of people 
and gotten a lot of input," 
Harangody said. "It's too early 
to tell how things are shaping 
up right now. I think that's one 
thing I'm going to know as the 
process goes on." 
Harangody will be the fourth 
player under Brey to declare 
for the draft before his senior 
year. 
"My feeling was after we went through it last year and the year that he had, in January, I really felt he owed it to himself to do this," Brey said. "Everything he's done for our program, as consistent as he's been in this league, play­ing against NBA frontline peo­ple, especially this year, you take advantage of the rule to get out there and do it." 
Troy Murphy decided to enter the draft folJowing his junior season in 2001, and was selected with the 14th overall pick. Chris Thomas and Torin 
Huskies 
continued from page 24 
"Our focus is shifting back 
to the Big East," Irish Coach 
Tracy Coyne said. "I think 
it's good to get back to our 
goal of winning the Big East 
Championship. We need to 
take care of business 
Saturday against Connecticut 
and then start preparing for 
really tough competition in 
the Big East Tournament." 
The Huskies recently 
defeated Holy Cross, snap­
ping their three game losing 
streak. Connecticut (3-12, 2­
4) comes into the match with its Big East tournament berth hopes on the line. 
The Irish are 8-2 all-time against the Huskies, winning four out of the five matches played at home. In the teams' previous meeting a year ago, Notre Dame defeated Connecticut 18-11. 
Scoring has been a strength for the Irish this season, as they come in to the matchup averaging near­ly 16 goals per game. good for first in the Big East. Five Irish players enter the con­test with point streaks, including senior Jillian Byers and sophomore Shaylyn Blaney, who are each riding 15-game point streaks, and junior Gina Scioscia, who enters the contest with a 13­game point streak. 
Francis also tested the waters 
following their junior years, 
but chose to return for their 
senior seasons. 
In all three cases, Brey said, 

his players made the correct 
move and he hopes Harangody 
makes the right decision, 
regardless of whether he 
comes back to Notre Dame or 
goes pro. 
"Troy Murphy and I were 
going through it and he said, 
'Coach I think I have to go.' 
And I said, 'You do have to go 
because you're going to be in 
the top 15. We're proud of you 
and we'll lead the parade and 
congratulations,"' Brey said. 
"I've been down that road 
before and I've been down two 
other roads where guys were 
smart enough not to stay hang­
ing out there on draft night." 
Harangody knows the obsta­cles that lie ahead of him. He knows some think he's under­sized and knows he needs to improve his post defense, but Harangody heard the same things when he came to Notre Dame. Two All-American selec­tions and a Big East Player of the Year award later, Harangody said he's ready to show his doubters what he can do. 
"I do see it as a challenge. I talked about this with coach the other day. When I came into college, that was a chal­lenge, to get playing time, get a starting position," Harangody said. "This is going to be exact­ly the same way. I feel like I have to prove myself again and that's fine with me. I like that type of challenge." 
"I've talked to a lot of people and gotten a lot of input. It's too early to tell how things are shaping up right now. I think that's one thing I'm going to know as the process goes on." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
relaxes us. From that stand­
point, if the attack is strug­
gling a little bit early, it 
makes us a little more tense. 
If we're scoring early, it will 
relax us a little more and 
maybe we'll play better." 
Notre Dame will also honor 
its seniors before the game 
on Saturday. Byers, along 
with Shannon Burke, Erin 
Goodman and Beth Koloup 
will be honored as they play 
in their last home game this 
weekend against the 
Huskies. 
"Everyone's going to be really motivated to go out and play well for the seniors and thank them for their contributions to the program and honor them with a great game," Coyne said. 
The class of 2009 has been one of the most successful in Irish history, appearing in three Big East tournaments, two NCAA tournaments and accumulating a 49-21 career record, the best in team his­tory. 
"[The seniors have] had a huge impact on the success of the program in terms of elevating our overall profile on the national level," Coyne said. "I think they've brought a certain level of intensity, commitment and competitiveness that's allowed us to compete with the top teams in the coun­try." 
The meeting between the Irish and the Huskies is
..•...·' ... 
~ 

"I have confidence in the scheduled to begin at noon team on both sides of the at Alumni Field.
Please recycle The Observer. 
ball, but I think we feel bet­ter as a team when we're Contact Eric Prister at 
scoring," Coyne said. "It eprister@nd.edu 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------... 
page 22 Friday, April 17, 2009 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

' ~ I 
' ; 

With joy and thanksgiving we invite you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of· 
' 
\ 
( 
\,\ 
\ ·'· ~ 
:tr .. 
I 
t 
'' 
·'' 

l 

'· 
Rev. Mr. Vincent A. Kuna, C.S.C. Rev. Mr. Charles F. McCoy, C.S.C. Rev. Mr. Aaron J. Michka, C.S.C.

dit 
:ill!·~ 
:tJ~.l
.}1., 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by 
·L· 
': 
• I 
.·, 
The Most Reverend John G. Vlazny, D.D. 
' 
I 
Archbishop of Portland in Oregon 
~ 
l) I I 
~ 
I 
' 
I 
, 
Saturday, April18, 2009 at 2:00p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
' 
. 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way" 
(Constitutions, I.3) 



Friday, April 17, 2009 

The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 1 It's shared by Russia and Ukraine 
10 Dated will? 
15 Flawlessly crafted 
16 Less well­looking 
17 They're produced in great quantities by supernovas 
18 Mosaic work 19 Honorific that's Sanskrit for 
~majesty" 
20 0, say 21 Light haulers 
23 B for 0, say 
25 "Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despaif writer 
27 "Silent Spring" subject 
28 "Like Niobe, all _":HamJet 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 Become part of 
history 60 It's open to debate 
63 Start to prepare, as 49-Across 64 Italian meal starter 65 A lot of assessments? 66 Saloonkeeper of note 
Down Having feeling 2 Brought to bear 3 "Summa Contra 
Gentiles" theologian 4 Tag cry 5 Tofu 
specification 6 See 9-0own 7 It may be fired 
back at someone 8 Chiwere dialect 
9 He demonstrated that what Columbus had discovered was not 6-Down 
10 Virgo's alpha star 11 Bit of hair 12 Referred 13 March preceder, 
periodically 14 Couples might set them up 22 They can't get any better 
24 Ominous words 
26_the Destroyer (rabble-rouser in Ralph Ellison's "Invisible Man") 
29 Strip on a bed 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Joon Pllhk  
31 Drill bit?  43 Blindly imitative  52 Tag cry  
33 Like some shells 35 Go for another tour  44 Deplete 45 Haref..to·define influence  55 It's featured in two Vivaldi cor.certos  
37 Put-down in a restaurant? 39 City due south of San Juan 400uick impressions 41 Specialized M.D.  46 Sportive 48 He joined Pizarro in the conquest of the Inca Empire 51 Funeral arrangements  57 Afterthought #3: Abbr. 61 "Revolution g~ collaborator 62 Inti. group with 35 members  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7·ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today"s puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles. nytimes.corn/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

('f:U:BH.ITif:S BORSON nus I)A\': Marlm b·wren,;~.-,44~ J:ll<.'U lhrkin,.5.5~ Kan.'<-·m Ahdul--Jabbar. 62; Hohhy Viu1011. 74 
llafJPY B!rthdlly; Yuu'\·e #OI a lot I~' 4'0Jttt:nd "'11h this yl.'ar but, :t<m arc a tm:tt\ee'r and it 
hn't lib>ly anyt.llte is ~out~ to kaw you in thctr <In~. "J1tc conqJCIU inn willllt' '>tiJf bill if 
y"u .~fa!<· hx:nwd. ~·on h<Wl.'ll't a tbiu# lo W<my at:>0111. Yvl~r tcadm~:~~ aud '*'illm!l:ue~:~, I(~ ).1-0 
II.!(! e1.1.rn mlle wdl wm th~ day. Yvu:r 1mml)(.-no MV J, 5, 14, ::w, .{{), J4, 42 
ARU:S (March .!!·April l9l: Re!!toUp and ~~Ull~· lh•• imJKll'f.ancc of not ~ctiin~ sid..~­
tra.:ked. You haw niOI't'" unportmat dun!!"<> to do th<m v.·aste lime m1 s.:mK-thill)l: you ~-mmot 
ch.mg~. Take care o( the llL'ople who have breu ~ood to Y<)U in the ))I.ISI. ** 
T.\l~Rt:S IApriJ ZO·Ma~ 20): Rely nn yollf llWil abibtk"s a.ud knov.·lt-.:1!1-c to ;,voitt "'mat· 
l:lfl" tryin~ to lead you "ff.tta\.'k. Rdax an..! CUJOY d!C' cQmpauy of fn"'n'h wb'' <>bai'C your 
hclid5-;md Gut con1ribu1c tt> >k·hat Y(lll are tryua~ tP ;~~;~·omt'lisb. A ~IWI"t tnp willl}ay oil. 
***** 

Gf:MJNI tMay :ZJ-Junt lt)): Pay hack any tti<U~ you owe Asuuatit)fll\'~anlmjl t,:>t:>ll tra~.-'1ual (lr Jqud IUalleT'> \\"Ill t'!!i.'alalt' ia~t. Ward oft ar;y d.~.aoc-1." (It emh;ut:as~ttlCnl Pr I."Xce~\ !:.'O<st!s by cotniu~ up wtlb vi;1bk wlmi<~tl~. Your prom!)t.Th:~!'l will iml'rcss otilef>.. *** 
CAN"<.'l:R IJunt ll·July 2.!): A falmll.lu~ arrnu~"tncnl betwe<~ll you and a pcrf~1 parttk."f C<Ul be m;.~de Spt.~ial cousidcrlltion gin'll at <1 time hke thi~ wtll ~h(>\\' your lila'tl,!!:lll of ~h!lraeter lllld atnhly to llk"CI any ()pJ)OSltiOII halfway. R~·wlntJOiiS ma<k· now W111 wad (I) :a llt'lfl.lllcrfumre *** 
LEO tJuly 2."\·Aug. 22)~ You may be tempted to oo somednn$ rlr:t<i:lic fortl~e v.Tong 
~as.;:m. It l:;ll"llh.al you ~ltouldn'1 lllilk<' duln~~ but r:all~t.•r b>)W ;\nd why )~I ~to about it 
CJK...-:k oul ways to b•mer your ~kills or move f(> a loc<~tion more ~omh.tcin~ to the indJblry 
you W(lrlo: in.*** 

\'IRGO (.~\ug.l3-Sc:pt.l:Z:•; Ta.k< wbat yt.'ltl lawl'· and bave r«eody learned and !!et 
nw,·ing ina new direction. Don'I let wu1eone else's uupr¢tlktabk nature Q\'emde what you know yoo baw l<l lk'~'Dmpb$h. A uew tti.:ndsbip ran br ~~tabbslwl .* * ** 
UBRA tSqtt. 1.\-0c:t.ll): Rise above 11o~~ip and n11110r:>. Make your ow11 <kci!>ion on 
what to hdie,·c and who to <;nppmt. Probkms at home or wil.h cbildren or a l<wcd one \\il.l require k!(al dtx...unenfllflon to prot11ct y~>Ur mteresh. ** 
SC.~ORPIO rOct.. 1."\-NoY.ll): He your own spokcspersotl and re(u:<.e t(~ piw in to 1~ 
$1U'e, Pur y(Jtlr tnVII(!}' in a safe pliK:e and don't biw ruayoJlC lUtlikdy ftl Jitive you your n!Onc·f~ ''Hirth. h~un? our wlutt you ..-an do your!it'lf. **** 
SAGil~fARfVS •Nov• .ll-Dee.lU: lfyoo aren't fair. y<...>u won"! win. A low,. OT c01upan· 100 \"i.ll be u~t with your acti.Otw if }'ffiJ b.!ud Lhc tntdl or antent1onally hurt S(lliJCOne C(~ltlillft :IC~¥1.~ it~ a d:Hts ll<.'t ~:~,>ill tlll(~ss your greatest cfitk.•** 
CAPH.f('OKN CJ)\>c.l2-Jan.l9J: Au icka y(m have will hrm~ about a change in ~'l.mr fi nam:ial ~tru1du:g: .. Property investments wilt n.~nh m g.1w1.h:r secunly and evcntmll Jlro~per• ity. A rdfltionship you ~.'ht"fisb will be amplihed if j~Ju are ~nkati~·e, *** 
AQUARIVS tJan. 20-FI.'"b. l8l: K.:.-ep thin!l-s to your'>t'lf :md yon will :·m)!d intc.rfeJ"etl(.~ SoulCQnc you tmsl will gi,·e you the-bead~· UJ' to J'rt'1\."\::<:d with a pla11 to add to ym1r skill~. A past acqnaint:uKe or :m expt."'fien~·e you had km;\! ago will inttoen~"\:: a d«,"islon }"JH ha,·e 10' mak.: now. * • * 
PISCf:S Web. H).March ltH: T:~ke a chan\.'<!: and listen to the advice tJ>Cill!!. ~iven ~-'Y wmc<:lfte i11 a powerful position. You -ota:rnlto llfOSpt.'f by followiull a plru1 of allacl that bas W(ltk~'d m the pa~t A l~annersliiJl w1111m•\·c lo lx: hrncficial **** 
Bi.rtbday Bab~·: Yvu hav~ integ.rity, bouor <tnd 1m: ctln.:aL You arc !:.'1lkllllltulg.a.nd pradi cal btat "'-'arm and loYill!!. Y(ll! Ctllll(! w y<:>ur dec-hivn~ lo~i~'llfly and will1 !ll(>ugbd1lhlC~~ 
l:o'll,Jt>mfn'!i Wrb sift'S: Nlgt>llinlmt.cvmjoF Nmjidl.'tttiai cmrsultmicms. /11VJpact•.romit'ugrmolnu for l:.l.t.~<'Hitr '.t blt)g. (l:>frr~tull"ke .comfor ftm 
30 It may concern arms or contain legs 
31 Supportive side 3201dbombs 
34_-cat 
36 Finno-Ugric tongue 
38_dela 
Societe 39 Isabella's home 42 Piltdown man 
locale 46 Make fun of 47 100 cents, in 
East London 49 Dish cooked in 
seasoned broth 50 Extraction target 51 Wildcats and 
Cougars play in it 53 Pro 54 "Sartor Resartus" essayist Thomas 56 Payoff 
58 1951 A.L. strikeout leader Raschi 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA

www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE JUMBLE 



Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 

ARfTI
I I 
©2009 TrlOOne MecJia Servic&s, Inc.. 
,~l~ftJ J I VOXCEN t 
1 
rJ J 
(] 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCAAMBI..f.D WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jell Knurek 

RUNNfER WANTE:O 
TO L..05E IN MORE WAYS THAN ONE. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: rI I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) PIPER LOOSE FERRET LEAVEN
Yesterday's IJumbles: 

Answer: When the ailing poet took to his bed, he ­FELT 'VERSE" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ __ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City~-------State ____ Zip__________ 

THE OBSERVER 
p
Friday, April 17, 2009 

page 24 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Early departure 
Harangody announces plans to enter draft 
By CHRIS HINE Senior Sports Writer 

When Luke Harangody arrived at Notre Dame three years ago, he was just worried about getting a few minutes of playing time and finding a niche in the competitive Big East. How life can change quickly. 
On Thursday, Harangody 
,· '' announced he will make him­self eligible for the NBA Draft and potentially forego his sen­ior season to fulfill his dream of playing professional basket­ball. Harangody will not hire 

,I 
\" .' ~ an agent, which will allow him

.. to withdraw from the draft by June 15 if he so wishes, but Harangody isn't entering this process of the draft just to have NBA teams critique his 
Irish junior forward Luke Harangody goes up for a dunk during a74-62 loss to West Virginia in see NBA/page 21 the Big East Tournament. Harangody announced Thursday that he will enter the NBA draft. 

NO SOFTBALL 

Team visits Big East rivals, looks to improve standing 
leader Louisville and 1 1/2 "Whether we win depends against Towson. son with three more Big EastBy LAURA MYERS games behind Depaul. 100 percent on how we play, The Scarlet Knights, who are doubleheaders.
Assistant Spons Editor 

The games this weekend will not on how our opponents last in the Big East, have also The first contest at Villanova wrap up a seven-game road play," Irish coach Deanna won three of their last six. will begin at 12 p.m. Saturday 
Notre Dame looks to gain trip for the Irish, the longest Gumpf said. However, the team lost both with the second to follow. The ground in the Big East this of the season. The Wildcats have had games of its last Big East dou­first game against Rutgers will weekend as it travels to con­Notre Dame will travel first mixed success lately, winning bleheader against begin at 11 a.m. Sunday with ference bottom-feeders to Villanova (19-15, 4-11) for three of their last six. Connecticut. the second game immediateJy Villanova and Rutgers. a doubleheader Saturday. The Wildcats senior Meghan After this wee,kend, the Irish after. 
The Irish (26-13. 9-3 Big squad will then head north to Morese, who leads her team in will return home for three East) currently sit third in the face Rutgers (16-25, 3-11) on hits with 37, hit her 200th non-conference games and Contact Laura Myers at conference, two games behind Sunday. career home run Thursday then will end the regular sea-lmyers2@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

laxers take on Huskies in finale 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 

No. 9 Notre Dame hopes to bounce back in its final match of the regular season when it faces Connecticut on Saturday at Alumni Field. 
The Irish {11-4, 4-2 Big East) are coming off two tough losses against No. 8 Syracuse, which is tied atop the Big East standings, and non-conference foe No. 12 Vanderbilt. Notre Dame's conference record has it sit­ting in third place behind the Orange and Georgetown. The Irish have already clinched their spot in the Big East Championships on April 24 and 26. 
see HUSKIES/page 21 


MEN'S lACROSSE 

Undefeated Irish to play two 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will get a taste of the past and a taste of the future in its two matches this weekend. 
The No. 3 Irish (10-0, 3-0)
·--face GWLL foe Quinnipiac (3­7, 1-2) on Saturday and host future Big East foe St. John's Sunday. The Saturday matchup with the Bobcats will be the penultimate GWLL regular season game for Notre DamP. On April 25. the Irish face Ohio State at Columbus in a prequel to the Buckeye spring football game. Next season, men's lacrosse· is joining the Big East confer­ence and Notre Dame will be leaving the GWLL. The weekend presents two matchups in two days, halfway across the country. 
see GWLL/page 20 



BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Police Squad defeats BOOMin long contest 
By ALEX WEST Sports Writer 

South Bend Police Squad -You're Screwed (SBPS) defeated BOOM! Roasted in a lengthy, physical and equally matched game 21­14 on the bookstore courts Thursday night. 
The game started slowly with neither team taking control early in the first half. It wasn't until a five­point run by SBPS gave them an early advantagP. SBPS lead 11-7 at halftime. 
In the second half, the game remained evenly matched. After SBPS started the second half with a three point run to open the lead to seven points, BOOM! brought the game back to four with a run of their own. 
SBPS was finally able to pull away and get the win after over an hour and 15 minutes of action. 
"Their height got us," BOOM! captain Sarah Trent commented after the game. "We just came up a little short." 
Kaitlyn Lynch of the SBPS was excited not only about her team's performance, but also about their fan base. "It was great!" Lynch said. "We have some hardcore fans that r~nmn to evnry ganw." 
Tiz Shadley of SBPS was also inspired by the team's fans. 
"Once we heard our cheering section we knew we were going to win." 
enchantEe 21, Goodnight Moon 3 
There wasn't much doubt 
see BOOKSTORE/page 20 









