
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Reishgiveslast State of Union address 
Impro-vement of student body-student gov't. relations emphasized 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Student body president Bob Reish said improving the relation­ship between students and their representatives in student govern­ment was a central focus and an accomplishment of his term in ollice during his final State of the Student Union address to Student Senate Wednesday. 
Reish will step down from his position on April 1, and student body president-elect Grant Schmidt will fill the role. 
Although the student body presi­dent generally delivers the final State of the Student Union in February, Reish said he preferred 
see UNION/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Coalition condetnns Obama's invitation 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
A coalition of student groups formed an ad hoc committee to "lead student response" in con­demning the University's invita­tion to President Barack Obama to deliver Notre Dame's 2009 Commencement address, according to a press release. 
The coalition -including Notre Dame Right to Life, Notre Dame College Republicans, the Irish Rover student newspaper and six other campus groups ­created a Web site, ndresponse.com, and released a formal statement Wednnsday denouncing University President Fr. John Jenkin's choice of speak­er. 
"In response to the University's decision, we pledge ourselves to acts of witness that will be char­acterized by respect. prayerful­ness, outspoken fidelity to the Church and true conr:em for the good of our University," the state­ment said of the coalition's pur­pose. 
Although outside religious and pro-life groups have been out­spoken against the University, this coalition is the first formal student response. 
But several Facebook groups have sprung up with the purpose of garnering support for Jenkins' decision. The largest group, titled "We will be honored to have President Obama at Notre Dame," claims 3,453 members 
see PROTEST/page 4 

By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Human beings cannot be understood without understand­ing their relationship with God, according to Igbo novelist and poet Chinua Achebe, who deliv­ered his second lecture of a three-part series titled "The Igbo and their Perception of God, Human Beings and Creation" Wednesday. 
"Chi [the creator] gives each one of us a meaning," Achebe, the author of the 1958 novel 'Things Fall Apart," said. 
It is impossible to generalize the relationship between God and humans, according to Achebe. "God reveals himself in 

Author explains hwnans'relation to God 
as many ways as there are us," 
he said. 
The personal nature of religion 
manifests itself in the blending of 
Christianity with traditional Igbo 
religion. according to Achebe, 
who added a Christian eonclu­
sion to a traditional prayer. 
"It's something that is happen­ing in Nigeria in the Igbo lan­guage," Achebe said. "Some peo­, pie don't like it-they think their religions and their prayers 
should stand apart." 
"But there's no point in making 
rules," Achebe continued. "It's 
people who make prayers." 
The primary Igbo deity, 
Chukwu, whose name literally 
means "Great Creator," is the 
see AUTHOR/page 4 


Campus sponsors 'PostSecret,' Irish style 
Anonymous messages of students' troubles to be displayed for mental health awareness 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
If you have checked your mailbox lately, you probably received a postcard blank on one side except for the words "Write it down ..." 
These postcards were part of Notre Dame's first "PostSecret" event: Students have the opportunity to mail secrets or personal troubles to be pub­lished anonymously. 
Spencer Howard, a co­founder of Notre Dame's chap­ter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) that helped to sponsor the event, said the group's goal was to raise awareness and advocate for better mental health. 
The College Democrats, the 
Sophomore Class Council, the Psychology Club and the Senate Social Concerns ·Committee also helped with 
sponsorship duties. 
"This was a way for student's 
to get the word out and share 
their stores of not just mental 
illness, but anything that's 
been on their mind," Howard 
said. 

The postcards were filled 
with thoughts ranging from 
concern over a mental illness 
to worries about friends to 
feelings of panic. 
The event had to go through 
a series of SAO activities as 
well as print off over 6,000 
postcards and fliers to publi­
cize the event. 
Dorm mailboxes were stuffed 
with the postcards, along with 
a blue slip of paper describing NAMI's mental health mission. 
Although the event targeted students living on campus, stu­dents living off campus were welcome to participate in the event. 
Howard said his fellow organizers were hopeful that students would share their personal struggles to help build a stronger sense of c_ommunity and a better support system. 
"If they don't have support in the community, dealing with issues for many students is challenging," Howard said. "People will want to talk about it, and others will be able to learn more about it." 
NAMl-ND was co-founded this year by Howard and Katie Dunn. Howard said he read a New York Times article in 2006 about the organization as a whole, and decided to try to start one here. 
"NAMI is a national group with state and local chapters," Howard said. "It is an impor­tant organization, often refer­enced by top political figures. 
According to NAMI's Web site, the group is "the nation's largest grassroots organization for people with mental illness and their families. Founded in 1979, NAMI has affiliates in every state and in more than 1,100 local communities across the country." 
The mission of the Notre Dame chapter is to work toward ending the stigma directed at mental illness on campus through alliance, advocacy and awareness. 
see SECRETS/page 4 

Econ prof dies at 73 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Charles Craypo, professor emeritus of economics at Notre Dame, died Sunday, March 22. He was 73. A pri­vate memorial service was held on March 24. 
Craypo was the former chair of the department of economics and the first director of the Higgins Labor 
Studies Program on campus. 
Current department chair Professor Jennifer Warlick called Craypo's death "an enormous loss for the department." 


"He was a wonderful role model," Warlick said. "He walks the talk in terms of working for social justice. In particular he worked very hard for the rights of working people." 
A native of Jackson, Mich., Craypo joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1978 as an associate professor of eco­nomics. After leaving to teach at Cornell University in 1982, he returned to Notre Dame in 1984 when he became the department chair. 
In 1993, he became the director of . the Higgins Labor Studies Program, which supports research. teaching, discussion and publication on political theory oflabor and the economy. 
Frank Connolly, a professor of mathematics and longtime friend of Craypo's, said that Craypo "never for­got where he came from." 
"He had a real sense of loyalty to the blue collar people of Michigan that he grew up with, and in his work he tried to work for them." Connolly said. 
"He tried always to remind people 
see CRAYPO/page 4 page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Magna Cafeteria 
There are many unwritten rules in life -no one should have to tell you, you just know. Correction -most people know, I guess, because from time to time these rules .do get broken. 
So let's get the unwritten rules of one relevant location down in writing, where they can be bro­ken so often -the dining hall. 
1. Do not ever, ever stop or step backwards in the dining hall. This rule mostly 
Michael Bryan
applies during peak hours, but really all the 
Associate 
time. Common 
Sports Editor 
sense says that when everyone is carrying a tray in front of them, and you move backwards, you're probably going to hit someone's tray. Then if the per­son behind you doesn't have cat­like reflexes, food and silverware will go flying, and it creates a sit­uation more awkward than watching American Pie with your grandparents. 
2. 
Do not talk on your cell phone and try and get food at the same time. Judging from every time I've seen this attempted, it is not possible. You need a hand for your tray and a hand to get any food, so I'm having a hard time where this secret phone hand is supposed to come from. Anyways, no one in line behind you should be subjected to your conversation about that guy that spilled your beer at Fever, its not a big deal. 

3. 
Don't invade people's space. If you have a lot of people eating with you, way to go, you're more popular than weed at a Pink Floyd laser show. Just don't sit down at a table with people already there, and make them feel bad or move because you suddenly can't fit all your bud­dies. 

4. 
Do not ever take more than two cups. Three is just too many. 

5. 
Do not try and be Rachael Ray. You do not have to travel the entire circumference of the din­ing hall in order to find some­thing to eat. What's in the home­style section? Shocker buddy, it's the same thing that's there every­day, bad burgers and hot dogs and a lot of grilled cheese and some fries. It's like when parents are at the dining hall after foot­ball games, except worse because you should know what's where. Stevie Wonder could get his food faster than you. 

6. 
Say hi to the people that work at the dining hall. Most everyone does this, but really, they're ridiculously nice people and the opportunity to talk and be around you is the reason they're here and not being a greeter at Wal-Mart (or maybe the economy, but roll with it). Seriously, they love students more than they love the Weather Channel. And damn, do old peo­ple love to talk about the weath­er. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contaci Michael Bryan 
at mbryan@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as 'a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 26, 2009 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD BE YOUR IDEAL COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER? 






Josh Espinoza  Andy Hills  Jon Rivard  Larissa Nez  
sophomore  freshman  freshman  sophomore  
Knott Hall  Carroll Hall  Carroll Hall  Pangborn  
"Ironman. ,,  "Merlin.,,  "Matthew  "Flava Flav. ,,  
McConaughey,  

no homo.'' 

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer Students paint up to support freshman pitcher Steve Sabatino during Notre Dame's baseball game vs. Oakland on Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Mich. baseball park to offer 4,800-calorle burgers 
GRAND RAPIDS -Well, at least the salsa is low­cal. The West Michigan Whitecaps, a minor league baseball team, will be offering up major league cholesterol, carbohydrates and calories in an enor­mous hamburger being added to the menu this year at the Fifth Third Ballpark. 
The 4-pound, $20 burg­er features five beef pat­ties, five slices of cheese, nearly a cup of chili and liberal doses of salsa and corn chips, all on an 8­inch sesame-seed bun. 
That's a lot of dough! 
The Grand Rapids Press reports that anyone who eats the entire 4,800-calo­rie behemoth in one sitting will receive a special T­shirt. Saner fans can divide it up with a pizza cutter and share. 
The Midwest League team is a Class A affiliate of the Detroit Tigers. 
Women uses a fake ID to buy fake breasts 
HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. -Police are seeking a woman they said used a false identity to get breast implants and liposuction, then skipped town. 

Huntington Beach police said Monday that a 30-year­old woman opened a line of credit in someone else's name in September 2008 and had the procedures worth more than $12,000 performed at the Pacific Center For Plastic Surgery. 
Employees said she never returned for follow-up vis­its. 
The woman turned her­self in Tuesday and was released on $20,000 bail. She faces charges of com­mercial burglary, grand theft and identity theft. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 


~ 

~ ·
0
I I I I I I I I II

,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,
.... 
1111111 I I I I
< 
I I I
(.) 

.s HIGH 58 HIGH 55 HIGH 60 HIGH 48 LOW 40 LOW 35 LOW 37 LOW 32 
IN BRIEF 
A lecture hosted by the Theology department titled "The lgbo and their Perception of God, Human Beings and Creation," will take place today at 7:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza College of Business. Nigerian novelist and poet Chinua Achebe will deliver the Third Biennial Blessed Pope John XXIII Lecture Series in Theology and Culture. The talk Thursday will focus on "Creation." 
The Department of Africana Studies will host a symposium titled "Change, Hope and Expectation: The Obama Presidency in Global Perspective" today at 6:00 
p.m. in the Eck Visitors' Center Auditorium. ~ panel consisting of the Erskine Peters Dissertation Fellows will speak. 
The Hawaii Club will be kicking off "Hula Le'a: Celebrating the Evolution of Hula" on Saturday at with a dinner at 5:00 p.m. in the Stepan Center. The show will start at 6:30 p.m. Costs for students is $10 at the door. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council will present "Fashion Show: Evolution" Saturday at 
8:00 p.m. in the ballroom of the Marriott Hotel in South Bend. Clothes will be featured from Men's Warehouse, Man Alive, Chi-Town Fashions, Street Stylin', Renee's, Dee, Vanity, Bridal Botique and Chico's. Tickets are $8 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



G,.,,:}fttf, 
·····dt'· :...--:;,*~tf:r·>.
**
* * * 
*&·*.,.
* *W* * 


HIGH 43 HIGH 54 LOW 29 LOW 36 
Atlanta 61 I 51 Boston 48 I 30 Chicago 50 I 44 Denver 53 I 24 Houston 73 I 63 Los Angeles 67 I 52 Minneapolis 41 I 36 New York 50 I 31 Philadelphia 49 I 31 Phoenix 81 I 53 Seattle 50 I 40 St. Louis 59 I 46 Tampa 81 I 60 Washington 51 I 33 
Thursday, March 26, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





LipstadtexannUnes Holocaust denial 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL News Writer 
New forms of Holocaust denial and anti-Semitism pres­ent an increasing challenge, Emory University Professor Deborah Upstadt said in a lec­ture at Notre Dame Wednesday night. 
Lipstadt, who delivered the 2009 Provost Distinguished Women's Lecture, is a Holocaust scholar and the author of several books about the Holocaust. She is known for discrediting Holocaust .denier David Irving in court when he sued for libel in 1996. 
Upstadt spoke about that trial in relation to the larger battle against anti-Semitism and Holocaust denial. 
There are two types of Holocaust denial, Upstadt said. The first, which she called 
core" denial, is more difficult to fight against, Lipstadt said. Examples of this type of denier include people who refuse to hear more information about the Holocaust and seek to can­cel Holocaust remembrance days, she said. 
"You see [softcore denial] accepted by many people who you would think would reject this kind of view, this kind of attitude," she said. "You begin to see this trend, and it's a very disturbing trend." 
It is difficult to decide whether to debate Holocaust deniers because doing so gives credence to their arguments, Upstadt said. 
"1, as a principle, do not believe in debating Holocaust deniers because it is like trying to nail a glob of jelly to the wall," she said. "You cannot debate liars." 
During the libel trial, it was important to defeat Irving's arguments, Lipstadt said. Researchers helped her find historical documents to dis­prove his statements in court. 
"How do you fight these peo­ple without building them up in importance?" she asked. "The one way I know ,how to fight is to show the facts." 
Lipstadt related Holocaust denial views to new forms of Anti-Semitism, which has increased in recent years. It is most prevalent in Europe, and is more worrisome than it was in the past, she said. 
"It is less directed at individ­ual Jews," Upstadt said. "It is more directed at Jews as a group. And sometimes it 
"How do you fight can be lethal." 
"hardcore 
A n t i ­

denial," denies these people without 
Semitism is

the very exis­

building them up in equally as diffi­
tence of the 

importance? The one cult to respond
Holocaust. She 
to as Holocaust


defined David way I know how to 
denial, Lipstadt

Irving as a 

fight is to show the 
said.

"hardcore" 

facts.,, ·"When you
denier. 
come to

The other 
respond to

form of Deborah Lipstadt 
these preju­

Holocaust 
Emory University dices you're
denial, or "soft­
professor already in a dif­
ficult position," 

she said. "You're immediately crediting an irrational sentiment. You're trying to respond to it rational­ly. You're never going to win." 
Lipstadt said that anti­Semitism is like all other kinds of prejudice. 
"It's the same thing as fight­ing racism, sexism, whatever you might be fighting," she said. 
It is a nearly impossible task to convince Holocaust deniers of the truth, Lipstadt said. Instead, she said she dedicates her time, to spreading facts because she hopes to prevent the expansion of prejudice. 
Corttact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 


Senate reinstates 'Chief of Staff' title 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
-

Student Senate passed a resolu­tion to amend the constitution of the undergraduate student body to restore the title of Chief of Staff at the last meeting of the term Wednesday. 
The position is currently called the Chief Executive Assistant (CEA) and is the number three positions in stu­dent government, serving under the student body president and vice president. 
Student body vice president Grant Schmidt officially announced that Ryan Brellenthin, current chair of the Academic Affairs Committee, will take the position of Chief of Staff onAprill. 
Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Brian Coughlin said the title Chiefof Staff was changed to Chief Executive Assistant because changes made to the format of stu­dent government essentially dis­solved the staff. 
"There wasn't any staff so the name was inappropriate· at the time," Coughlin said. 
Ian Secviar, chair of the Oversight Committee, which oversees changes to the constitution, said the switch was for practical reason<>. 
"People usually have a hard time explaining what the CEA is," he said. 
Secviar said current chief execu­tive assistant Karen Koski usually referred to the title of Chief of Staff when discussing her job with stu­dent government outsiders because the title is mo,re descriptive of the job. 
The resolution passed with 25 votes for the amendment, two against and zero abstaining votes. Alumni Hall senator Zach Reuvers and Fisher Hall senator Jon Vu opposed the amendment. 
The resolution states that the Chief of Staff will assist the student body president and vice president with daily tasks and committee efforts, attend all Executive Policy Board meetings and sit on Student Senate, Council of Representatives and the Campus Life Council as a non-voting member. 
The Chief of Staff will also be responsible for Student Senate press releases and general publicity, according to the resolution. 
In other Senate news: 

+Student body vice president Grant Schmidt said he has been preparing for the transitions that will occur when he takes his position as student body president on April 1, along with student body vice presi­dent-elect Cynthia Weber. 
+Chair of the Academic Affairs committee Ryan Brellenthin said his committee has been working with professors to obtain ISBN numbers for texts booKs required for University courses in order to lower the cost ofbooks. He said the project will continue into the next term. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Lecture discusses Jesus' humanity 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 

"We know that Jesus ate and drank, and put up with exasperat­ing apostles, but we do not know if Jesus laughed," said Anita Houck, Saint Mary's College Associate Professor of Religious Studies who spoke Wednesday for a lecture titled "Did Jesus Laugh?" at 4:30 
p.m. in the Student Center. 

We know that there have been stories of Jesus' laughter, but none that were accepted into the Canon with the church follows. We can­not turn to the Bible to fmd the answer, Houck continued. 
The talk was the second install­ment in a three-part spring lec­ture series called "Hope Hard Times" sponsored by the Center for Spirituality. The topic focuses on the benefits of spirituality amid the uncertainty of the current eco­.nomic crisis. 
One thing is undisputed: Jesus was human. And to be fully human, Jesus had to laugh like people, Houck said. 
"To attribute laughter to Jesus, we cannot go straight from 'he was human' to 'he had to have laughed.' We have to add the premise that it is good for humans to laugh," said Houck. 
To support her claim that laugh­ter is good, Houck listnd a variety of reasons centering around its importance to relationships: old­fashioned joy, comic relief, inside jokes, laughter as a sign of com­mon humanity and as a way to ward of evil and as a way to express the human side of the church. 
like Jesus, Houck gracticed the lessons she preached: While speaking about the benefits of laughter, she entertained the audi­ence by feeding them opportuni­ties for humor throughout the lec­ture. 
Using a video clip of MIT mathe­matician Tom Lehrer's satirical "Vatican Rag," a humorous list titled "Why God Never Received Tenure at Any University," and several cartoons, Houck demon­strated the capacity for laughter, as the room erupted at inside jokes aimed at Catholicism. 
"One function of humor is to build community,'~ Houck said. Inside jokes bring people together. 
But humor has had a bad repu­tation with religion, since the occasional mean-spirited intent clashes with virtue. This is one reason why it is difficult for us to accept that Jesus laughed, said Houck. 
"It would be dishonest to say that laughter is always put to good use," Houck said. 
"Despite humor's negative repu­tation, it is worth remembering that there are all kinds of laughter, and they can express all types of relationships," she continued. 
Houck used quotes from G.K Chesterton, Mark Twain, Albert Einstein, Thomas Aquinas and William James to transition through her points. 
She concluded her lecture with a quote from G.K. Chesterton: "You must have mirth or you will have madness." 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

15th Annual Mini-Medical School 
Hosting the 9th Annual Otis R. Bowen, M.D. Lecture: 

"Health Care Under President Barack Obama: An Insider's Debate" 
Ralph Neas, CEO, National Coalition on Health Care,Washington,D.C. Robert E. Moffit,PhD. The Heritage Foundation, Washington, D.C. 

Thursday, March 26,2009 
7:00-8:00 p.m. (EST) Indiana University School of Medicine -South Bend Radin -Carmichael Hall 1234 Notre Dame Avenue South Bend, IN 46617 {The southeast corner of Notre Dame main entrance, at Angela Blvd) 
Free of charge and open to the general 
for more information call Memorial Hospital: (574) 647 -7381 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 26, 2009 
tion amongst the groups and after groups that have offered help. Howard said. 
actual cards we have collected," debating, we decided it was best "This is an issue that's much


Protest
Secrets 

to collaborate on the basis of our bigger than this University to be continued from page 1 approval from the SAO before 
The group is still awaiting 
continued from page 1 common ground based on our honest, and so it affects every­
they can construct a wall, which 
belief.~." she said. "We thought it body and everyone associated in While this event has no affilia­will display the more than 20 
as of press time. would be most effective if we any remote way with the tion with the PostSecret event postcards collected so far. 
Despite the controversy, Shin worked together on the issue." University," she said. "Even peo­held on other college campuses, Howard, a senior, will not be 
Inouye, a White House Daly said she cannot comment ple who have never stepped on spokesperson, said the president specifically about the coalition's campus."
Howard said it earned the same on campus next year, but he is honored to speak to Notre plans becausn tl1ey are in the very However, Daly said the coalition name because of the use of the wants to see the event next postcard for spreading a per­year. 
Dame students. beginning stages, but the group's has not reached out to or made sonal message. "This is a good event to con­
"Notre Dame is one of the first Web site lists an event slated for any formal alliances with any out­universities President Obama will March 31 in which the coalition side groups or individuals.
While the location where the tinue annually," he said. "I anonymous messages will be believe that it will help students 
visit as president," Inouye said. will deliver red envelops to "Outside groups have been in posted has yet to be decided, feel more welcome and no one 
"He is honored to address the Jenkins representing abortions. contaet with us, but we have not graduating class, their families According to the site, the letters reached out to anyone becauseHoward said that he hopes it will feel isolated." 
and the faeulty of a school with will say: "Fr. Jenkins, This enve­we think it's important that wewill be centrally located. 
sueh a rich history of fostering the lope represents one child who are expressing a student voice," "We are looking to make a Contact Liz O'Donnell at exchange of ideas." died because of an abortion. It is she said. "We have been receiving wall where people can read the eodonnel@nd.edu 
Mary Daly, president of Notre empty because the life that was a barrage of e-mails, but we 
Dame Hight to Life, said the coali­taken is now unable to be a part aren't at a point to formally coop­
tion's Web site has already gotten of our world. This envelope was erate or organize anything." 
described as a game of hide­
a huge response. going to be sent to President Assistant Vice President forand-seek in search for the dead

Author 

"I personally have gotten over Obama on March 31st. However, News and Information Dennisperson. 
55 pages of e-mails, and the e­as he is scheduled to receive an Brown told The Observer student continued from page 1 "An aged group goes around mail of the coalition just today has Honorary Doctorate of Laws groups can sponsor these kinds of town singing calling on their received a massive response very Degree from Notre Dame on May events .i.Lnd the University sup­god who receives the least member to come out from hid­quickly," Daly said. 17th, we ask that you deliver it to ports the engagement of dialogue. 
amount of praise, Achebe said. ing and join them," Achebe Daly said the coalition is the him on our behalf at that time." "It's important to hear a variety"There are many deities for said. "They pretend they no result of a meeting on Tuesday Daly said the coalition aims to of opinions on a college campus," the lgbo, but Chukwu is infi­longer know where their friend that was organized by Right to "provide concrete, solid leader­he said. 
nitely greater and different is, that he is playing games." 
life but extended to all interested ship" and have students primarily from the others," he said. "The These searches last through groups and individuals. leading the protests, but will tap Contact Madeline Buckley atothers may be powerful and the night, until at dawn, the vil­"It initiated some communica-into the resources of outside mbuckley@nd.edu
may be troublesome and may lagers are forced to concede demand to be at peace with that their friend did pass away. shrines and worshipers which These customs are manifesta­Chukwu does not generally tions of the Igbo believe that have. "death has a place in the Igbo 
ment administrations that have Reish said the DVD rental "In lgbo cosmology, Chukwu land," according to Achebe. 
been around for a while tend to program his administration

Union

has a primary function that he "It is Chukwu who made 
lose their connection with the implemented this year also has does and that is creation," death," Achebe said. "The lgbo 
student body. increased the visibility of stu­
continued from page 1
Achebe said. "Making people, believe that the world of living 
"[Student government's] job is dent government among stu­making the world, making us." and world of the dead are con­
to speak during the last week of to serve the students," he said. dents. The lgbo word for "create" is nected in circular and unending 
his term. "This year, we've laid the foun­Because the rentals are avail­"ke," according to Achebe. manner. The finality of death is 
Reish said his transition to dation. Most work this term has able in the student government "There is a second meaning of not known to the lgbo." 
leading the student body last been connecting to student office on the second floor of 'ke' -to share, to distribute, to Achebe understands that 
April was difficult because he body." LaFortune Student Center, allow." Ache be said. there are "people who want 
did not come to office with the Heish cited the creation of the Reish said the program brought Because of the second mean­nothing to do with death, who 
experience of being student ad hoc committee, the Student students up to the second floor ing of "ke," Chukwu "is also want to resurrect those who 
body vice president or chief · Outreach Committee, as a to get to know the members of creating the attributes," Achebe died," he said. "They think they 
executive assistant, which is measure he took to bridge the student government. said. "A person is -only made are doing something which god 
traditionally the pattern. gap between students and stu­"We brought people to the when he has received their approves." 
But because Reish and stu­dent government. However, he second floor of LaFortune," he share of human attributes." However, for the Igbo, death 
dent body vice president Grant noted the committee will not said. "We changed that and The perception of death is an is not an evil. "The Igbo people 
Schmidt "broke the trfldition" of continue in its current form that's pretty cool." important way to understand would say it is god who made 
the succession of power in stu­when Schmidt takes office on Heish said he hopes the DVD the relationship between death," Achebe said. "He wants 
dent government, Reish said April1. rental program will continue to humanity and the divine in the us to appreciate the value of 
the team brought new ideas to Reish said the student sur­be a vehicle to increase dia­lgbo culture, Achebe said. just the sheer complexity of 
their respective roles. veys -administered by the logue between the student body "It shows the complexity of things around us." 
"It took us time to get used to Student Outreach Committee -and student government. how the lgbo people compre­Achebe will present his third 
all the administrators," he said. -have allowed students to offer Reish thanked the senators hend the complexity of God's lecture, on "Creation," 
"But it allowed us to get a fresh their input to student govern­and committee chairs for their presence," he said. "Death is Thursday evening at 7:30 p.m. 
perspective." ment. work in helping to reach the part of this complexity." in the Jordan Auditorium of 
This perspective led him to "The student survey, kind of goal of strengthening the con­"When a person dies, the Igbo Mendoza College of Business. 
question the disconnect like my little baby, has helped nection between student gov­search for the dead among the 
between the student body and us further projects along," he ernment and the student body. living," Achebe said. 
student government, Reish said. said. "Students saw their efforts "For all of you, I wish the best The young people in the vil­Contact John Tierney at 
As a result, he said he sought to make a difference." of luck," he said. "Thanks for a lage play what Achebe jtiemel@nd.edu 
create a perception among stu­Student input helped student good year." 
dents that student government government to make strides in 
is working for the student body. revising the University's sexual Contact Madeline Buckley at 
Reish said student govern-assault policy, Reish said. mbuckley@nd.edu 

Craypo 
continued from page 1 

at Notre Dame of the needs of ordi­nary laboring people, as Notre Dame grew wealthier and tended to look in that direction less often," Connolly said of Craypo's work. 
Former economics department chair Professor Charles Wilber said in a University press release that Craypo did "path-breaking research on labor relations within the context of industrial organiza­tion." 
"He was a great mentor to our doctoral students, directing many dissertations and aiding the new graduates to obtain excellent posi­tio~~in academia, government and labor organizations," Wilber said. 
Craypo most recently taught a one-credit course on Wal-Mart, which Warlick said "lent itself to our curriculum of social justice issues." 
"We will miss having that course very much," she said. 
Craypo served for two years in the Marines before attending Michigan State University where he earned bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in economics. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 26, 2009 Colv\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
'Most-wanted' trafficker captured 
MEXICO CITY -Soldiers captured one of Mexico's most-wanted smugglers, a man accused of controlling the flow of drugs through the northern city of Monterrey for the powerful Beltran-Leyva cartel, the Mexican army said Wednesday. 
The announcement came hours before 
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton arrived in Mexico promising to do more to help Mexico crack down on drug violence that is spilling over into the U.S. 
Gen. Luis Arturo Oliver said Hector Huerta was detained Tuesday in a Monterrey suburb, along with four men identified as his bodyguards. Soldiers also seized assault rifles and four grenades. 
Huerta was arrested on an outstanding homicide warrant; the other four suspects were being held pending charges. 
US journalists possibly led by guide 
SEOUL, South Korea -Two American journalists being held by North Korea may have been led across the border from China by a guide promising them exclusive footage of human trafficking or drug deals, an activist who helped organize their trip said Wednesday. 
The Rev. Chun Ki-won says he repeated­ly warned Laura Ling and Euna Lee by phone not to stray into North Korean terri­tory in the days before their March 17 detention. 
Chun, who said he helped arrange their trip to China to report on North Korean refugees living in border towns, said the reporters kept in close contact, calling him twice daily. They followed his advice to the word, and never mentioned wanting to sneak into North Korea, he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

F-22 fighter jet crashes in desert 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. -One of the Air Force's top-of-the-line F-22 fight­er jets crashed Wednesday in the high desert of Southern California. There was no immediate word on whether the pilot eject­ed. 
The F-22A Raptor crashed 35 miles northeast of Edwards Air Force Base, Pentagon spokesman Gary Strassburg said. The Bureau of Land Management identifies the area as Harper Dry Lake, a vast and empty expanse of sometimes marshy flat land. 
Rescue crews were at the site in the after­noon but there was no information on the status of the pilot, said Lt. Col. Karen Platt, an Air Force spokeswoman at the Pentagon. 
N.D. mayor 'optimistic' about flooding 
BISMARCK, N.D. -Demolition crews blasted a huge ice jam in the Missouri River in a bid Wednesday to open a chan­nel, like pulling out a giant plug to drain a flood threatening the city. 
"We are cautiously optimistic," Bismarck Mayor John Warford said after the string of explosives went off. He said officials would ha,ve a better assessment Wednesday night, but said water appeared to be moving. 
Water backing up behind the dam of car­size ice blocks already had forced the evac­uation of about 1,700 people from low­lying areas in North Dakota's capital city. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Lawsuit targets major polluters 
CROWN POINT, Ind. -A Crown Point father is suing 11 of Lake County's largest industries, claiming the air pollution they emit endangers the long-term health of the region's children. 
Ron Kurth is seeking class action status for the suit filed Wednesday in Lake Superior Court. 
The complaint cites a study that appeared in USA Today earlier this year that reported children in the heavily industrialized county are exposed to higher levels of airborne tox­ins than elsewhere in the United States. 
fRANCE 


French workers protest, burn tires 
3M manager held hostage as laid-off employees demonstrate against AIG 
Associated Press 

PARIS -French workers burned tires, marched on the presidential palace and held a manager of U.S. manufacturer 3M hostage Wednesday as anger mounted over job cuts and executive bonuses. 
Rising public outrage at employers on both sides of the Atlantic has been trig­gered by executives cash­ing in bonus checks even as their companies were kept afloat with billions of euros (dollars) in taxpayers' money and unemployment soars. 
As the U.S. administra­tion seeks ways of recoup­ing some of the $165 mil­lion in bonuses paid to executives at insurance giant American International Group Inc., kept afloat by $170 billion in taxpayer bailout money, French President Nicolas Sarkozy is threatening new laws on bonuses and gold­en parachutes. 
Sarkozy is also trying to deflect anger against his government's failure to ward off the job losses and economic hardship that comes with recession. 
The €3.2 million ($4.3 million) exit bonus paid to the former head of Valeo SA, an auto parts maker tB.at received state aid, has fueled outrage in France. Controversy also grew with a long tradition of Wednesday over bonuses at labor unrest. brokerage company A French 3M executive Cheuvreux, a unit of a was being held hostage for 
·French bank that got state the second day at a plant in handouts. Pithiviers, south of Paris, as 
"The risks of repercus­workers protested layoffs. sions of ill-feeling from The situation was calm, employees and from a however, with labor talks political backlash are real taking place there if execs continue to be com­Wednesday. pensated at pre-crisis lev­Detaine'd 3M manager els," said Cubillas Ding, a Luc Rousselet told an AP senior analyst at financial reporter "Everything's fine" research firm Celent. and workers planned to "Bonus and pay cuts are bring him mussels and now seen as the politically French fries for dinner. correct thing to do." In Paris, rage boiled over 
Rising public outrage at into an angry march on the employers has led to kid­presidential palace and a nappings, marches and bonfire of tires set alight by strikes in France, a country workers from Germany's Continental AG, whose auto parts factory in Clairoix, northeast of Paris, plans to shut down in 2010. 

Similar resentment is emerging in many parts of Europe. Vandals smashed windows early Wednesday at the homp of the former CEO of the Royal Bank of Scotland. Sir Fred Godwin resigned in disgrace but waltzed out at age 50 with an annual pension of about 700,000 pounds ($1.2 mil­lion). 
Bonus payments are dominating headlines in Sweden, which prides itself on a relatively egalitarian society. Big companies like truck maker Volvo and bank SEB have been forced to withdraw compensation schemes for top executives amid public outrage. 
And in Switzerland, top executives at UBS AG, which is benefiting from a $60 billion government bailout, have given up their 2008 bonuses. 
Henri Guaino, a top aide to Sarkozy, issued an ulti­matum to French employ­ers, saying in a radio inter­view Wednesday that the government will step in and legislate if France's main employers' federation, Medef, doesn't come up with proposals setting guidelines on executive pay by March 31. 


N.H. votes to repeal death penalty 
Associated Press 

CONCORD, N.H. -Three months after a man was sentenced to die for killing a police officer -New Hampshire's first death sentence in 50 years -the House voted Wednesday to repeal capital punish­ment. 
The chamber voted 193-17 4 to send the repeal bill to the Senate, where its fate is uncertain. Gov. John Lynch, a Democrat, said he would veto the bill ifit reached his desk. 
"There are some crimes so heinous that I believe capital punishment is 
warranted," Lynch said after the vote. 
Michael Addison was sentenced to 
death in December for killing 
Manchester police Officer Michael 
Briggs in 2006. No execution date has 
been scheduled because Addison is 
appealing the sentence. 
Law enforcers have lined up against 
the repeal, led by Attorney General Kelly Ayotte, who prosecuted . Addison. But the New Hampshire Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers says death penalty sentences 
are unfairly applied. 
Hampton Democrat Renny Cushing, 
whose father was shot to death in 
1988, led the fight to repeal the death penalty. After his father's murder, Cushing founded Murder Victims' Families for Reconciliation. 
"No matter how many times you kill, that doesn't bring anybody back," he said. Cushing asked the House to repeal the law "in the name of my father." 
But Wolfeboro Republican Stanley Stevens, who supports the death penalty, listed law enforcement offi­cers killed in the line of duty over the years. The law is a covenant with them that their deaths would be avenged, he said. 
"We ask them to stand between us and lawlessness," Stevens said. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 26, 2009 



Two hundred killer whales seen in Gulf 
Associated Press 
It was a fish story that even veteran boat captains found fas­cinating: As many as 200 killer whales feeding on tuna in the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico. 
"It was like being at Sea World because they'd come right up to the boat," said Eddie Hall, cap­tain of the Shady Lady, the 60­foot charter boat that spotted the shiny black sea beasts with white eye patches and under­sides. "It was pretty neat." 
It was also hard for some skeptics to believe: Orcas, as killer whales are also known, typically are thought to live in cold water and eat seals. 
But Hall's description of what he saw last Oct. 31 was no tall tale: A government biologist who saw video taken from Hall's boat confirmed the captain had spot­ted the creatures. And last week that same scientist, Keith Mullin, explained at a public meeting in Orange Beach, Ala., that yes, contrary to common percep­tions, killer whales really do live in the Gulf. far from land. 
Mullin, whose outfit has been working for years to get an accu­rate count of the Gulfs whale population, said it may be time to dramatically increase esti­mates on how many killer whales are lurking in the deep waters off the Gulf Coast. He's taking part in a research expedi­tion this summer that could determine if his hunch is right. 
Scientists believe the whales have been in the Gulf for years, Mullin said, and that their pres­ence -though startling to some anglers -isn't a sign of climate change or other manmade con­dition. Their relatively small population and the speed at which pods move make them difficult to count, which could have led to lower estimates. 
''I've got good records of them in the Caribbean. We see them almost exclusively in deep water, 600 feet and more," Mullin said. "I think they've always been there. It's just in the last 15 to 20 years that we've been trying to study them." 
Hall told The Associated Press on Monday that the Shady Lady was 95 miles off the coast of Alabama when anglers and crew saw scores of the marine mammals feeding near an on·­shore rig in water more than a mile deep. 
"There were four different pods. We estimated there were about 200 maximum. One pod had 75 in it," said Hall, who runs charters out of Zeke's Landing in Orange Beach, about 40 miles east of Mobile. 
People on the boat took video and photos, including some with the offshore rig in the back­ground to identifY their location. But Hall said they got laughed off the dock when they returned. 
"It was a joke because no one would believe us," he said. 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. ­President Barack Obama seemed to have as much fun Tuesday talking to the 10 astronauts in orbit about e­mailing, fitness and Tang as the children who surrounded him at the White House and took part in the call. 
Obama, making his first call to space, even asked the only woman aboard the shuttle-sta­tion complex whether she was tempted to cut her long hair while she was up there. She said no, and the president called her flyaway curls "a real fashion statement." 
He started the call off joking with the astronauts. 
''I'm told that you're cruising at about 17,000 mph, so we're glad that you are using the handsfree phone," he said. 
After getting a big laugh in orbit and on the ground, the president got right down to business, telling the astronauts that he was extraordinarily proud of them for their work at the international space station over the past week. 1le wanted to know how they installed the new solar panels and what the impact of that green power would be. 
"We're investing back here on the ground a whole array of solar and other renewable energy projects and so to find out that you're doing this up at the space station is particularly 
• exciting," Obama said. 
Last week's addition of the last set of solar wings doubled 
Obama makes first call to space 
the amount of power available for science experiments and will help support a larger crew in a few months, the astro­nauts said. 
The half-hour call came as the astronauts were enjoying their last full day together. Shuttle Discovery departs with its crew of seven Wednesday afternoon. 
Obama made sure the middle school students got first crack at the astronauts. Several members of Congress in atten­dance -"who are like big kids when it comes to talking to astronauts," according to Obama -had to wait their turn. 
One boy asked whether the astronauts can play video games in space. The answer: They can, but there isn't much free time. Other children want­ed to know what the astronauts eat and whether they have found any life forms up there. 
The astronauts said they haven't found anything yet. "I think we'll have much more success at finding new types of life and different structures when we go to places like moon and Mars," said astro­naut Sandra Magnus, the only woman aboard. 
One of two former middle school teachers who flew up on Discovery, Hichard Arnold II, said the food was pretty good, consisting mostly of dehydrat­ed fare and military-style ready-to-eat meals "that a few of us ate last year when the hurricane came through Houston." 
"You guys still drink Tang up there?" Obama asked with a laugh. He said Sen. Bill Nelson, 0-Fla., who flew on a space shuttle in 1986, told him Tang had been taken off the menu. Nelson was one of several members of Congress who took part in the call. 
Obama also wanted to know about the astronauts: e-mail system and whether it works up there like it does on Earth. Space station commander Mike Fincke explained it's not as instantaneous; they get it synched up just once, twice maybe three times a day. 
The president was interested in the fitness requirements of the job, too. "Some of us remember watching 'The Right Stuff,"' he said. The 1983 movie depicts how the seven original Mercury astronauts competed strenuously for their jobs. 
Fincke flexed his muscles for the president. "That's pretty impressive," Obama said. 
Later in the day, Magnus told reporters she can't. wait to go outside when her 4 1/2-month mission at the space station ends. She will return to Earth aboard Discovery. 
"You just can't get tired of looking at the views" of Earth, Magnus said. "But part of you wants to be down in the view, in nature, walking through the woods or enjoying the breeze ~r e~joying the sun on your lace. 
She's also yearning for sushi, pizza and a chocolate milk­shake. 

The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture Presents the 24th Annual Philip and Doris Clarke Family Lecture on Medical Ethics 
A Moral Foundation for the Helping Professions: Medicine, Law, Ministry, and Teaching 

~. 


J 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, March 26, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,749.81 +89.84 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,482 122 1,274 608,660,934 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE­S&P 500 813.88 +7.63 NIKKEI·.(Tol{9o'''''.. '"·'·a,IJ3i~~ii :liiij!II~II,JIII FTSE 100 (London) 3,900.25 -11.21 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) -1.99 -0.06 2.95 BK OF AMERICA (SAC) +6.65 +0.48 7.70 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.05 +0.85 81.45 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +7.53 +0.46 6.58 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +4.45 +0.118 2.770 13-WEEK BILL -9.76 -0.020 0.185 30-YEAR BOND +3.08 +0.111 3.720 5-YEAR NOTE +6.62 +0.112 1.810 . 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.21 52.77 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +12.00 938.00 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.50 88.00 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.6850 EURO 1.3611 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2300 BRITISH POUND 1.4604 
IN BRIEF 
EU negative towards US stimulus 
BRUSSELS -The head of the European Union slammed President Barack Obama's plan to spend nearly $2 trillion to push the 
U.S. economy out of recession as "the road to hell" that EU governments must avoid. 
The blunt comments by Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek to the European Parliament on Wednesday highlighted sim­mering European differences with Washington ahead of a key summit next week on fixing the world economy. 
It was the strongest pushback yet from a European leader as the 27 -nation bloc bristles from U.S. criticism that it is not spending enough to stimulate demand. 
Shocked by the outburst, other European politicians went into damage control mode, with some reproaching the Czech leader for his language and others reaffirming their good diplomatic ties with the United States. The leaders of EU's major nations -France, Britain and Germany, among others -largely ignored Topolanek and his remarks. 
Not out of the worst yet, economists say 
WASHINGTON -Glimmers of hope for the economy -better home sales and higher demand for goods, plus optimism from the White House and a nearly 20 percent rally in stocks -have some people wondering if the worst is over. 
Not so fast, say many economists. Layoffs are still mounting and home prices are still falling in an economy shrinking at an alarm­ing rate. A recovery anytime soon doesn't seem likely. 
"We may be seeing the end of the beginning of this recession, but it is not the beginning of the end of the downturn," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York. 
Still, the recent news has been better than expected. On Wednesday, the Commerce Department said demand for big-ticket manu­factured goods, which had fallen for six months in a row, actually rose by 3.4 percent in February.Lev L. Dassin. 
And reports this week have shown sales of both new and existing homes rising by about 5 percent last man: '1. 
Detnocrats stand behind Obatna onthe Hill 
U.S. budget to protect Pr~sident's priorities while drastically cutting deficit 
Associared Press  
WASHINGTON -In a  
springtime show of unity,  
congressional Democrats  
welcomed President Barack  
Obama to the Capitol  
Wednesday and unveiled  
budget blueprints that  
embrace his key priorities  
and point the way for major  
legislation this year on health  
care: energy and educatiGll.  
Even so, both the House  
and Senate versions lack  
specifics for_ any of the  
administration's signature  
proposals. And Democrats  
decided to cut spending ­ 
and exploding deficits - 
below levels envisioned in •  
the plan Obama presented  
less than a month ago.  
Administration officials  
and congressional leaders  
said any differences were  
modest.  
"This budget will protect  
President Obama's priorities  
-education, energy, health  
care, middle class tax relief  
and cut the deficit in half,"  
Senate Majority Leader  
Harry Reid, D-Nev., said after  
the chief executive met pri­ 
vately in the Capitol with  
rank-and-file Democrats.  
Earlier, White Honse  
Budget Director Peter Orszag  
told reporters the congres­ 
sional budgets "may not be  
identical twins to what the AP  
president submitted, but they Deputy Budget Director Rob Nabors, left, walks with Senate Budget Committee  
are certainly brothers that Chairman Sen. Kent Conrad on Capitol Hill on Wednesday.  
look an awful lot alike."  
Neither house included the  The House and Senate  ceptable over time if the  Budget Committee added  
$250 billion that the adminis­ plans both call for spending  economy is to recover and  that Democrats were mask­ 
tration seeks for any future  $3.6 trillion in the year that  remain healthy.  ing the true deficits left by  
financial industry bailout.  begins Oct. 1, according to  Given the strong  their plans by leaving out the  
Additionally, Senate  the Congressional Budget  Democratic congressional  cost of legislation that is  
Democrats assume in their  Otlice, compared with $3.7  majorities in both houses,  politically essential, such as  
version that Obama's middle  trillion for Obama's plan.  there is little or no doubt the  funding to shelter doctors  
class tax cuts will expire  The House plan foresees a  spending blueprints can  from payments they receive  
after 2010, and the House  deficit of $1.2 trillion for  clear both houses bv the end  for serving Medicare  
blueprint allocates $200 bil­ 2010 but would cut that to  of next month. But  patients.  
lion less to tax cuts over five  $598 billion after five years.  Republicans greeted them  In th~ House, Rep. Paul  
years than the president.  The comparable Senate esti­ with criticism nonetheless.  Ryan, R-Wis., said Democrats  
But none of that means the  mates are $1.2 trillion in  Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H.,  were advancing "the presi­ 
tax cuts can't be kept in  2010 and $508 billion in  who was briefly Obama's  dent's high-cost, big-govern­ 
place in 2011 and beyond,  2014.  choice to become commerce  ment agenda in camouflage ..  
only that lawmakers would  Obama's budget would  secretary earlier in the year,  ... Instead of simply righting  
have to find offsetting rev­ leave a deficit of $1.4 trillion  said the president had laid  the ship, this budget steers it  
enue to pay for them, said  in five years' time, according  out a "blueprint to move the  in a radically different direc­ 
Kent Conrad of North  to congressional estimates, a  government dramatically to  tion straight into the tidal  
Dakota, chairman of the  level that is viewed by  the left ... hard left." The sen­ wave of spending and debt  
Senate Budget Committee.  numerous experts as unac­ ior Republican on the Senate  that is already building."  

Post o~fice proposes major cutbacks 
Associated Press If the Postal Service does run out the American expectation of afford­
of money, the lingering question, able six-day mail delivery." 
WASHINGTON -The post office Potter told the House Oversight post Even if the agency succeeds in will run out of money this year office subcommittee, is which bills reaching its planned cost cuts of unless it gets help, Postmaster will be paid and which will not. $5.9 billion, there could still be a $6 General John Potter told Congress Ensurjng the payment of workers' billion deficit in 2010, Potter said. on Wednesday as he sought permis­salaries comes first, he said, but "Without a change we will sion to cut delivery to five days a other bills may have to wait. exhaust our cash resources," he week. Potter first raised the possibility said. "We can no longer afford busi­
"We are facing losses of historic of delivery cutbacks in January, but ness as usual." proportion. Our situation is criti-· the idea has not been warmly Asked if layoffs would occur. cal," Potter told a House panel. received in Congress. Potter said it is possible but he 
The agency lost $2.8 billion last "With the Postal Service facing hopes avoidable. year and is looking at much larger budget shortfalls, the subcommittee Last week, the post office said it losses this year. Reducing mail will consider a number of options to planned to offer early retirement to delivery from six days to five days a restore financial stability and exam­150,000 workers and is eliminating week could save $3.5 billion annu­ine ways for the Postal Service to 1,400 management positions and a1ly, Potter said. continue to operate without cutting closing six of its 80 district offices 
Potter also urged changes in how services," subcommittee chairman in cost-cutting efforts. Potter said the post office pre-pays for retiree Stephen F. Lynch, D-Mass., said. he expects 10,000 to 15,000 work­health care to cut its annual costs Lynch said the financial stability ers to accept the early retirement bv $2 billion. of the Postal Service is "critical to offer. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 26, 2009 
Pharmaceutical residue 
~ 
found infish across U.S. 

Associated Press 
Fish caught near wastewater treatment plants serving five major U.S. cities had residues of pharmaceuticals in them, including medicines used to treat high cholesterol, allergies, high blood pressure, bipolar dis­order and depression, researchers reported We-dnesday. 
Findings from this first nation­wide study of human drugs in fish tissue have prompted the Environmental Protection Agency to significantly expand similar ongoing research to more than 150 different loca­tions. 
'The average person hopefully will see this type of a study and see the importance of us think­ing about water that we use every day, where does it come from, where does it go to? We need to understand this is a lim­ited resource and we need to learn a lot more about our impacts on it," said study co­author Bryan Brooks, a Baylor University researcher and pro­fessor who has published more than a dozen studies related to pharmaceuticals in the environ­ment. 
A person would have to eat hundreds of thousands of fish dinners to get even a single ther­apeutic dose, Brooks said. But researchers including Brooks have found that even extremely diluted concentrations of phar­maceutical residues can harm fish, frogs and other aquatic species because of their constant exposure to contaminated water. 
The research was published online Wednesday by the journal Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry and also was present­ed at a meeting of the American Chemical Society in Salt Lake City. 
Brooks and his colleague Kevin Chambliss tested fish caught in rivers where waste­water treatment plants release treated sewage in Chicago, Dallas, Phoenix, Philadelphia and Orlando, Fla. For compari­son, they also tested fish from New Mexico's pristine Gila Hiver Wilderness Area. aa area i'iolat­ed from human sources of poilu­tion. 
Earlier research has con­firmed that fish absorb medi­cines because the rivers they live in are contaminated with traces of drugs that are not removed in sewage treatment plants. Much of the contamina­tion comes from the unmetabo­lized residues of pharmaceuti­cals that people have taken and excreted; unused medications dumped down the drain also contribute to the problem. 
The researchers, whose work was funded by a $150,000 EPA grant, tested fish for 24 different pharmaceuticals, as well as 12 chemicals found in personal care products. 
They found trace concentra­tions of seven drugs and two soap scent chemicals in fish at all five of the urban river sites. The amounts varied, but some of the fish had combinations of many of the compounds in their livers. 
The researchers didn't detect anything in the reference fish caught in rural New Mexico. 
In an ongoing investigation, The Associated Press has reported trace concentrations of pharmaceuticals have been detected in drinking water pro­vided to at least 46 million Americans. 
The EPA has called for addi­tional studies about the impact on humans of long-term con­sumption of minute amounts of medicines in their drinking water, especially in unknown combinations. Limited laborato­ry studies have shown that human cells failed to grow or took unusual shapes when exposed to combinations of some pharmaceuticals found in drinking water. 
"Thi'i pilot study is one impor­tant way that EPA is increasing its scientific knowledge about the occurrence of pharmaceuti­cals and personal care products in the environment," said EPA spokeswoman Suzanne Budzinski. She said the complet­ed and expanded EPA sampling for pharmaceuticals and other compounds in fish and surface water is part of the agency's National Hivers and Stream A'isessment. 


apartments available for 2009·2010 :walking distance to campus:; 2·b€drcom, 2-ba!h with 990± SF :: free internet : washer, dryer and dishwasher :: central air rondi!ionlng :: large balrony :: cathedra! ooillngs 
Call Cnristina at 314·~4l·13Jij to sc~eaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@nastaaiumcluo.com 

Priest found guilty of theft 
Associated Press 

WEST PALM BEACH. Fla. -A Florida priest convicted of steal­ing money from his church was sentenced Wednesday to four years in prison, the second cler­ic to be imprisoned for taking thousands of dollars from the same congregation. 
The Rev. Francis Guinan, 66, was found guilty in February of second-degree grand theft. 
Prosecutors had charged him with stealing $488,000 from St. Vincent Ferrer Catholic Church in Delray Beach, a first-degree felony punishable by up to 30 years in prison. But jurors found him guilty on the lesser charge of stealing under $100,000. 
Guinan had faced up to 15 years in prison. 
''I'm deeply sorry," Guinan told the judge Wednesday, adding that his month in jail since his conviction should be considered "sufficient time." 
The Hev. John Skehan, 81, was sentenced Tuesday to 14 months in prison after pleading guilty to stealing more than $370,000 from the same church. He will also serve seven years probation and will pay more than $700,000 in restitu­tion. 
Authorities claimed the two priests took the money to fund lavish lifestyles, including upscale homes, gambling trips and rare coin collections. They believed the money stolen over the years was in the millions, but a statute of limitations kept them from pursuing charges on the larger theft. 
An anonymous parishioner tipped prosecutors in April 2005, prompting police to con­tact the church, which was already conducting its own investigation. 
Guinan argued at his trial that he believed a priest could spend as much as $50,000 on any one item without reporting it to the diocese. 
Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Krista Marx said it was "extremely troubling ... that a reasonable person" could believe spending the church's money was justified. 
"You must be punished for your egregious abuse of authori­ty," Marx said. 
She sentenced Guinan to four years in state prison, less the time he has already served in jail, plus $99,999 restitution. 
Before his sentence, five peo­ple testified in support of Guinan, noting that he has suf­fered enough by the church hav­ing revoked his ability to prac­tice as a priest. 
"He has been denied of the priesthood which is everything to him," the Hev. Anthony Mulderry told the judge. "I would ask you ... to think that he has already suffered enough." 

Teenarrestedinradio reporter n1urder 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A teenager with a Web site describing him as a sadomasochist and featuring photos of a knife collection was arrested Wednesday in the stab­bing death of a veteran New York City radio reporter he met on the Internet. 
Police officials said that John Katehis, 16, confessed to killing George Weber shortly after being taken into custody late Tuesday in Middletown. N.Y., where he was hiding out at a friend's home. 
Police Commissioner Haymond Kelly said at a news conference Wednesday that the meeting between the suspect and Weber, 4 7, involved "an exchange of money." 
A law enforcement official, speaking on condition of anonymity because charges were still being drawn up, later said the suspect claimed Weber had offered him $60 to have rough sex. 
Police found Weber's bound body Sunday in the bedroom of this Brooklyn apartment after his boss reported him missing. He had been stabbed at least 50 times and bound at the ankles with duct tape. 
A name for the Queens teenag­er's attorney was not immediate­ly available. 
On a MySpace page, Katehis has posted a series of photos with various knives, one with the caption, "Love this blade." He describes himself as "a very easy person to talk to," but also as "an Extremist, an Anarchist and a Sadomasochist." 
He cautions, "As long as you show respect for me i will show respect for you, if you disrespect me, then i will ... break your neck." 
Weber had his first contact with Katehis on Craigslist some­time last week before the pair arranged a meeting, Kelly said. 

THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2009 
6:30 & 9:30p.m., Browning Cinema DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
lickt>h: $6, S5 fitcu!ty/staff $4 seriiors (rtiZ('flS, and Sl all ~tudenh Call S/4"631-2800 or vbit prrfonninqarts.nrl.edu 
~DE~ARTOLO 
'\___;;:) P'f.RfORMING ART!:. CH·.HER 

NANOVIC INSTITUTE FILM SERIES 
2008·2009: CONTEMPORARY EUROPEAN A_!IIMATION 
Thursday, March 26, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Historian Franklin dies at 94 
RALEIGH, N.C. -John Hope Franklin, a towering scholar and pioneer of African­American studies who wrote the seminal text on the black experience in the U.S. and worked on the landmark Supreme Court case that out­lawed public school segrega­tion, died Wednesday. lie was 94. 
David Jarmul, a spokesman at. Duke University, where Franklin taught for a decade and was professor emeritus of history, said he died of conges­tive heart failure at the school's hospital in Durham. 
Born and raised in an all­black community in Oklahoma where he was often subjected to humiliating racism, Franklin was later instrumental in bring­ing down the legal and histori­cal validations of such a world. 
As an author, his book "From Slavery to Freedom" was a landmark integration of black history into American history that remains relevant more than 60 years after being pub­lished. As a scholar, his research helped Thurgood Marshall and his team at the NAACP win Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 case that barred the doctrine of "sepa­rate but equal" in the nation's public schools. 
"It was evident how much the lawyers appreciated what the historians could oll"er," Franklin later wrote. "For me, and I sus­pect the same was true for the others. it was exhilarating." 
Franklin himself broke numerous color barriers. He was the first black department chair at a predominantly white institution, Brooklyn College; the first black professor to hold an endowed chair at Duke; and the first black president of the American Historical Association. 
lie often regarded his country like an exasperated relative, frustrated by racism's stubborn power, yet refusing to give up. "I want to be out there on the firing line, helping, directing or doing something to try to make this a better world, a better place to live," Franklin told The Associated Press in 2005. 
In November, after Barack Obama broke the ultimate racial barrier in American poli­tics, Franklin called his ascen­sion to the White House "one of the most historic moments, if not the most historic moment, in the history of this country." 
Obama's achievement fit with Franklin's mission as a histori­an, to document how blacks lived and served alongside whites from the nation's birth. Black patriots fought at Lexington and Concord, Franklin pointed out in "From Slavery to Freedom," published in 1947. They crossed the Delaware with Washington and explored with Lewis and Clark. 
The book sold more than 3.5 million copies and remains required reading in college classrooms. It was based on research Franklin conducted in libraries and archives that did­n't allow him to eat lunch or use the bathroom because he was black. 
"He was working in a profes­sion that more or less banned him at the outset and ended up its leading practitioner," said Tim Tyson, a history professor at Duke. "And yet, he always managed to keep his grace and his sense of humor." 
Late in life, Franklin received more than 130 honorary degrees and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People's Spingarn Award. In 1993, President Bill Clinton honored Franklin with the Charles Fninkel Prize, recog­nizing scholarly contributions that give "eloquence and mean­ing ... to our ideas, hopes and dreams as American citizens." 


Clinton awarded Franklin the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian prize, two years later, and gave him the role for which he was perhaps best known outside academia, as chairman of Clinton's Initiative on Race. It was a job of which Franklin said, "I am not sure this is an honor. It may be a burden." 
As he aged, Franklin spent more time in the greenhouse behind his home, where he nursed orchids, than in libraries. He fell in love with the flowers because "they're full of challenges, mystery" ­the same reasons he fell in love with history. 
In June, Franklin had a small role in the movie based on the book "Blood Done Signed My Name," about the public slaying of black man in Oxford in 1970. Tyson, the book's author, said at the time he wanted Franklin in the movie "because of his dignity and his shining intelli­gence." 
Franklin attended historically black Fisk University, where he met Aurelia Whittington, who would be his wife, editor, help­mate and rock for 58 years, until her death in 1999. lie planned to follow his father into law, but the lively lectures of a white professor, Ted Currier, convinced him history was his field. Currier borrowed $500 to send Franklin to Harvard University for graduate studies. 
Franklin's doctoral thesis was on free blacks in antebellum North Carolina. His wife spent part of their honeymoon in 
Catholic Charities USA. 
Florida gov't. debates tanning restrictions 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Miss Florida Teen USA Kayla Collier was 15 when she first visitnd a tanning salon so the stage lights at a local pageant would­n't make her fair skin look ghostly white. 
Later that year, as she tried on homecoming dresses, her mother noticed what looked like a scab on her back. It turned out to be skin cancer. 
And though she can't defini­tively link the tanning to the cancer, Collier, now 18 and healthy, won't be back under the bulbs. On Wednesday, her voice catching, she asked Sunshine State lawmakers to ban people under 16 from using tanning beds. 
"I know teenagers that go every day, every week, twice a day sometimes to tanning beds," said Collier, who wore her sash and a sunshine yellow jacket. "I do believe that it did play a part in my skin cancer." 
Florida is among 17 states, including Hawaii, considering laws this year that would restrict indoor tanning by minors. Proposals would ban teens from tanning salons or require them to get notes from parents or doctors. 
After the Florida bill passed a Senate committee, Collier's mother, Claire, who had si~-,rned the permission form that allowed her daughter to tan, said she hopes the full Legislature will approve it. 
"Do you really realize that your daughter or son -after just a few times in the tanning bed-could have melanoma? I didn't," she said. 
Opponents say the tanning beds are safe for teens and their use should be up to par­ents, not states. 
"I gotta tell you. you cannot regulate everything in this world," said Florida Sen. Mike Bennett, a Republican who voted against the bill. "I sup­pose we could say the same thing and outlaw tanning on the beach." 

Persuading teens to stop tan­ning co:ttld be a hard sell. According to onn study released in 2002. a quarter of those ages 15 to 18 had used indoor tanning in the past year. 
Florida already requires parental approval before minors can use tanning salons. If the new law passes. it would be among the strictest in the nation. Only one state, Wisconsin, bans teens 16 and under from using tanning beds, though a handful of others ­California, New York and New Jersey among them -ban the under-14 crowd. At least 29 states have some regulations governing tanning by minors. 
Even more restrictive propos­als in Texas and Vermont would prohibit anyone under 18 from using a tanning bed without a doctor's notn. 
Texas state Rep. Burt Solomons, a Republican, says it makes sense to ban minors from tanning just like they're prohibited from buying ciga­rettes because both are known carcinogens. And Democratic Vermont state Rep. Janet Ancel, who introduced her bill after having skin cancer her­self, said just requiring parental consent isn't good enough. 
"It isn't healthy for a young person to be in a tanning booth, so allowing it with a par­ent's consent isn't going to pro­tect them," she said. 
Many of the bills being debat­ed in state legislatures this year were promoted by California­based Aim at Melanoma, which supports research and educa­tion on the most serious form of skin cancer. 
StoreYour Stun 
t'lliulfuw fdctt; ti:nPttmffiw~
tffiwM·~ :tJ:Jijj t.,:::tz~~.fl;;s: :t~e ~ Call or $top on by & re~erve today! 
15741 203-0512 

6482 fitid: !<ki<;!ll. South l\t?-nd l<>ea!'id at O""elilnd Rd, & US 20 8ypa~~. '1 mlnut .. , from oampu~ 
Fr. Larry Snyder, President ofCatholic Charities USA will discuss: 
• 
The mission ofCatholic Charities 


• 
Oetting involved in Catholic Charities 

• 
Professional and entry-level positions 


Mond_ay~ Man:h 30. 2009 5:30,.6:30 p.m. 
'iNOTREsDAME
Plua Provided 
Mendoza College: of Business Oiovunini Commons~ Lower Level M~ndota Coll~ge of au~ine!g 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
pagelO Thursday, March 26, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Mecz 
MANAGING EDITOR -.: BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Sreiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mart Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
0FACE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
-(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisemen~. is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisements based on cont~nt. 
The news is reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and depanment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of rhe authors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro rhe Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Ediwr-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The O~er (USPS 599 2-4000} ill published Mo11day tbmut;h Friday q;.ccpt during o:am and vaca~ioc periods. A ~ip1ion to Th~ Olmm:r is $t'OO for one acadt:mic yt:ar; $55 for oru: St"Rle$t<:t. 
The Obstrvtr is published .at: POSTMASTER 024 Sou1h Dining Hall Send -address com:ctions w: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556--0179 ~~rver Periodial postage: paid ar Nouc Dame P.O. Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024 Soudt Dining lUll 
Nor.re Dame, lN 46556-on9 
Tht: Observer i.i a member ofthe Associated Ptesli, All [tftroduction rights are ti:S(!tvc:d. 

Obama, protesters and my graduation 
Randall Terry is the AI Sharpton of the anti-abortion movement, but with a few more arrests. 
That is, Terry -who runs the (really, really) pro-life group Operation Rescue ­makes incendiary statements that, for better or worse, garner far more media attention than they deserve. 
It's no surprise, then, that some­where between likening President Obama speaking at Commencement to the "cultural rape of true Catholicity" and warning that · he will "lead an attack on the ground" in South Bend, Terry told The Observer this week, "We will recruit people from all of the country, and we will make this a cir­cus." ~ 
Bad news for you, Randall: We're way ahead of you. Anytime Fox News puts your sk:lry on the front page, P.T Barnum's got nothin' on you. 
This is what it must have been like to go to school in the 60s and 70s. 
Of course, graduation is a day to cele­brate my class and those who have sup­ported us for four years. But it's also a day to celebrate our education, this University and its unique place in American and Catholic culture. 
My education at Notre Dame has been the social, political and Catholic controver­sies that we consistently witness and par­ticipate in. We're supposed to be the place where the Catholic Church does its think­ing. And whether it's the "Vagina Monologues," our non-discrimination clause or white crosses on the Quad every year, a thinking Church has been contro­versial and, at times, vitriolic. 

This is what Notre Dame has forced me to realize: The dichotomy between being "Catholic" and being a "University" is false. We don't have to pick one. We serve our Catholic mission by living our University mission. 
Graduation is not a time to celebrate the end of our education. It's a day to continue it. That's why we need to embrace the idea that President Obama should be welcome to speak before our graduating dass. But that's also why we need to welcome the scores of protesters, Viewpoint letters and anti-Obama public statements by profes­sors, alumni and, most importantly, seniors alike. To silence either side would be to undermine the experience of unique edu­cation we've gotten for four years and fun­damentally misunderstand the relationship between being Catholic and being a University. 
Contrary to a number of the letters we've seen on these pages in the last few days, we shouldn't be "embarrassed" by the presence of a pro-choice politician on our graduation stage, nor should we be "embarrassed" by the calls to keep a pro­choice politician otl' our stage. We shouldn't view protesters as "hijacking" our gradua­tion. Yes, I want protesters yelling at me on the day of my graduation, showing graphic pictures of aborted fetuses, because Notre Dame has taught me that to avoid debate -·as visceral as it may be -is to lack strength in my own convictions. 
This isn't an empty paean to relativism and tolerance. I have no problem picking a "right" side: of course President Obama should speak at my graduation, and -like it or not -like many of my fellow gradu­ates, I believe in most things he stands for. _ But that's not the point. Welcoming all to our campus and allowing this critical Catholic debate to play out here are not just numb tolerance. They're an all-too­rare opportunity to live out the mission of our University in a prominent, public way. 
This shouldn't be dismissed as a "Viewpoint War," as if we were debating the relative merits of pirates or an(other) off-color comic about Saint Mary's. On both sides, this is Notre Dame at her best ~ actively navigating the place of the Church in education, and the role of religion in a world too often ignorant of its extraordi­nary power for good and for evil. 
We should welcome organized, graphic protests outside, someplace students, guests and, yes, media can't miss them. 
We should welcome it when kids turn their backs to the President and boo, as some inevitably will. 
We should welcome parents, scholars and Bishops to denounce the very exis­tence of tbe speech as embarrassing and un-Catholic. 
But for the same reason, we should wel­come President Obama to stand at the podium and speak to us. 
We should welcome Mary Ann Glendon, a pro-life Catholic and Harvard Law pro­fessor, to stand next to him and speak to us. 
We should welcome Notre Dame to retake its rightful position as a public place where the Church does its thinking. 
I'll walk at graduation proud, armed with the knowledge that the "circus" around me is exactly what makes this University so important, and so special. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. He's eager for your response. He can be reached at anesi@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Robbie Singer Michael Bryan Irena Zajickova Meaghan Veselik 

Is your bracket faring better than Amanda Gray Chris Michalski Obama's?
Graphics Viewpoint "Success usually comes 
Mary Jesse Patricia to those who are too busy to looking for it." 
Scene Fernandez Yes Jordan Gamble No 
Henry David Thoreau American author 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 26, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Not on m.y cam.pus 
I feel like it was only a few weeks ago that I was sitting in LaFortune writing thank you letters to alumni for their generous donations. While their donations have been very helpful I've now resigned myself to the fact that the only good to come out of the experience was the free shirt and pizza I was bribed with to participate. 
Upon reading the Viewpoint section in Monday's Observer I found myself actually longing for the typical "I don't care if it's Lent I want meat in the dining hall on Friday" editorials. Instead I found myself staring at pages -yes multiple pages -condemning Notre Dame's recent selection of President Obama as our 2009 Commencement speaker. 
I'm not completely upset with this criticism. I love that we're actually using our paper to promote a dialogue on something other than the wave at home football games. What upsets me are the threats that some alumni are insinuating. Mr. Kevin Keane~ class of 1988 ("Obama choice unacceptable," March 23), I dare you to try and protest my graduation. Strike that, I triple dog dare you. I just don't see it happening. Do you really want to ruin "the happiest day of my life," or the happiest day of my 2000 fellow classmates by showing us pictures of dead babies? Really? Do you? Not even that, I'd like to see you try. 
I issue this to all alumni -you probably remember a little book called· "duLac." It basically says what you can and cannot do on the Notre Dame Campus. If I may direct you specifically to page 145 of our ,most recent edition, the Office of Residence Life and Housing has been kind enough to include a little section on campus demonstrations. The section begins stating, "All demon­strations must be registered in writing with the Associate Vice President for Residence Life." I bet you've already looked into that you seem like a very well informed gentleman. But wait there's more! All demon­strations "also must observe the following rules: A All demonstrations must be peaceful and orderly. B. Only members of the University community may organize or lead a demonstration on campus. C. Demonstrators may not impede the freedom of the University community." So there it is, laid out to us by good ol' "duLac," a docu­ment I've come to know quite well in my four years here. 
Mr Keane as well as any other alumni who might be outraged at who's speaking at my graduation, I'm sorry for you. But please if you do wish to ruin what will be "The happiest day of my life" with your shouts of hate and graphic displays, keep it off my campus, because here at Notre Dame we play by the rules. 
Matthew Degnan 
seruor 
Sarin College March24 
Outside appearances 
Unfortunately, this is another letter to respond to the response to the president's upcoming visit to Notre Dame. However, I have noticed something underlying the general uproar I might not have fully appreciated before. 
My initial reaction was horror and dread when I saw news stories right on the Google News home page about Our Lady's University, many of which seemed to project the diverse and colored opinions of various groups of people from outside Notre Dame onto her student body and our institution as a whole. Yes, there are 100,000 signatures on an Internet petition protesting the University's decision, but that, along with any other state-1 ments, demonstrations or fiercely worded articles from the media, other colleges or even Catholic bishops, do not necessarily represent what we as the students actually believe. I know this, but will Chicago Tribune and Washington Post readers? 
Hence my horror and dread; they are getting the mes­sage that we at Notre Dame are polarized, radical, fren­zied and scandalized. In fact, I have noticed that the vast majority of students are openly considering various opin­ions, engaged in conversation and primarily concerned that the Commencement actually honor the seniors. (Could this have been the goal of our administration in the first place?) 
All of this made me wonder why the rest of the world cannot seem to leave Notre Dame alone. If you are a Bishop, one of my high school friends who did not even apply to Notre Dame, an alumnus, a random Catholic from across the country or even a Saint Mary's student, why should this be such a big deal? Stop trying to take over our Commencement, I thought. Please do not come marching on Notre Dame Ave. and give the rest of the world an idea about Notre Dame students that does not actually represent most of us. 
However, I have concluded that the hundred thousand signatures and general interest across the country can only mean one thing. Notre Dame makes a difference outside the bubble too -a significant one, and to a lot more people: Catholic people, pro-life people, any politi­cally or religiously engaged people. There is no explana­tion for the passionate uproar and concern other than that hundreds of thousands of people see our University as symbol and stronghold of the Catholic faith, or of the pursuit of truth, or morality. 
With that in mind, maybe I should be less annoyed that everyone else is freaking out over what we are up to, and think about whether I fully appreciate and recognize my privileged role as a student of this institution. They think Notre Dame is important; I actually get to live here. Do I make any effort to consider or live up to the high (though diverse) expectations of so many who find us worthy of their own passionate concern? 
Joseph VanderZee freshman Keough Hall March23 
Politics, not religion 
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops 2004 statement, "Catholics and Political Life," states that Catholic institutions, like Notre Dame, "should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamen­tal and moral principles," and that those who do "should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions." 
On May 17, I will be honored with a Bachelor's Degree from Notre Dame. In my four years attending this university I have been awarded wtth over $100,000 in scholarships and financial aid froin Notre Dame, and have always been offered a platform to speak my mind, as I would in any credible University. On the day that I graduate, President Obama will be presented with an honorary law degree from Notre Dame and have the privilege to be the Class of 2009's Commencement speaker. Both Barack Obama and I have acted in defiance of the Church's fundamental and moral principles in the past, but no one is protesting me receiving my degree. 
The idea that by inviting President Obama to deliv­er the commencement address, Notre Dame is in any way supporting his position on abortion is ludicrous. In presenting him this honor, Notre Dame is reward­ing him for his achievements, just as Notre Dame will be rewarding me for mine. There is no Catholic lit­mus test to decide whether you are fit for this honor. 
Notre Dame has a long history of presenting this honor to people who have in opposition to the Catholic Church, from General Sherman in 1865, whose total war strategies in his "March to the Sea" clearly violate the Catholic standards of jus in bello, to President George W. Bush, who as governor of Texas presided over 155 executions. I'm willing to bet that the pro-life activists who are turning this event into a scandal were silent when President George W. Bush delivered the commencement speech eight years ago. Which leads to me to believe that this protest movement has nothing to do with "protecting Notre Dame's Catholic identity" and everything to do with politics. 
I have no problem with staging a political protest. It's our right as Americans to do so. What I do have a problem with is hypocrisy. If you disagree with Obama's politics, you have the right to stage a politi­cal protest, but don't turn it into something it's not. Don't hide behind the Church unless you plan to protest every speaker we have in the future that does not conform to Catholic principles. You are staging a political protest, nothing more. 
Bill Sanchez 
semor 
Knott Hall March 25 
Unity, please 
Frankly, Obama as a Commencement speaker has done 
little but divide Notre Dame. Whether or not you believe it is 
a scandal or an honor, the only effect I have seen is in the 
student body's behavior. All I overhear, in conversations 
from the dining hall or on campus, are people's strong views 
on how ignorant or disrespectful the other half of the stu­
dent body is, based solely on this issue. I've heard scoffs, 
heated arguments between friends, and all manner of disre­
spectful behavior ... towards fellow students. 
We say we want dialogue, yet the judgments made by the 
stronger personalities in a group are preventing students who do not want to be labeled by their friends, even mental­ly, from speaking out. There are, of course, exceptions, and I applaud them. I might have a moderate to strong view on the issue. In fact, I do. But if I told you what it was and why I believed it, would it change your· mind? No. You would either agree with me because I said something you already liked, or disagree with me and think me ignorant. Why? Simply because you place a lower priority on the things that _ are dear to me, and care deeply about things I fmd false or irrelevant. And as Joey Kulm ("Just embrace it," March 24) 
so astutely said, nothing is going to change about it. 
This speech has implications for the University (you may 
disagree on what they are), but they will ehoose to handle 
them or not. Enough sentiment has been expressed on both 
sides for the administration to know how the student body 
feels. So if we really plan on acting like a unified or Christian 
institution we should probably stop calling each other igno­
rant, disrespectful and calloused. 
But if there were no scandals or divisive issues, Viewpoint 
would be a lot less fun for everyone, I suppose. 
Laura Berlage sophomore McGlinn Hall March24 

Defending the senior legacy 
In her Letter to the Editor ("Money talks," March 24), Kelly Kapshandy expressed her shock and disappoint­ment at President Obama's inclusion in the 2009 Commencement ceremony and stated that she will not donate to the University after graduation. 
As members of the Notre Dame community know, our alumni are famously gtmerous in their support of the University, and the student experience is made possible through their continued donations. The students of the senior class will be asked in the upcoming weeks to join in this tradition by making a gift to th~ University. As a member of the Student Development Committee, I helped establish the Class of 2009's Senior Legacy, a fund that will assist future Notre Dame students. If sen­iors would prefer not to give to the Senior Legacy, they will have the option to donate instead to a favorite pro­gram or cause on campus, another opportunity to direct­ly impact student life. 
I urge the senior class to remember that pledges to the Senior Legacy, to the Annual Fund, or to the resi­dence hall or club of your choosing benefit the stlldents of Notre Dame. This is our class's opportunity to make a lasting impact, and I hope each senior will contribute to this tradition despite his or her opinion on the University's choice of Commencement speaker. 
Lauren Bennett senior offcampus March 24 

Take a stand 
I read a letter entitled,"Don't Hijack Our Day" (March 24). I would counter, "Don't be so self-absorbed." Just because it may not be your hot-button issue, protesting is all we can do at this point. Absolutely; the University giving President Obama an honorary award is saying the University is not taking a stand nor supporting the opposition to Embryonic Stem Cell Research. I'm just a simple mom with five children that graduated in 1991. I want Notre Dame to remain Catholic. This is the time to take a stand. Thank you. 
Barbara Volmen alum Class of 1991 March24 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursay, March 26, 2009 

to find the affection that his wife, Nan, mysterious note in his mailbox, By ERIC PRISTER has for God, whom she affectionately requesting his presence at the shack, Scene Writer calls "Papa." His life is happy, for the and signed "Papa." Despite reason 
most part, until he decides to take his telling him not to, Wm. Paul Young's bestselling novel three youngest children on a camping Mack journeys to those who are truly struggling "The Shack" claims to "[wrestle] with trip that will forever change his life. the shack and is with the question of evil in the
Young clearly 

the timeless question: Where is God in On the final day of the camping trip, thrown into a world world, it seems that "The 
means for "The

a world so filled with unspeakable Mack's pre-teen daughter, Missy, is of self-discovery led Shack" does very little. For pain," but seems to fall short of its abducted while Mack is distracted sav­by the three per­Shack" to have a conservative Christians, the goal for many people. ing his son who has fallen into a near­sons of the characters of the Trinity are
similar effect on his

"The Shack" tells the supposedly by river. Mack and the rest of the Christian Trinity -too anti-religious and too anti­
readers as the

true story of a man named Mackenzie Phillips family later learns that she God, in the form of establishment. For those who Allen Phillips, who lives with a wife, has been taken by a serial killer a large black experience had on have suffered pain and are five kids and the memory of an abusive named the Little Ladykiller, who tar­woman known only doubtful as to the existence of
Mack, or at least 

father. Mack, as he is called by Young, gets young girls, leaving only a lady­as "Papa," Jesus, in God, the theology of "The
for it to open the

a real-life friend of Mackenzie's, lives bug pin behind as evidence. The only all of his humanity, Shack" is simply too powerful a content life, though he cannot seem trace of Missy that the police can dis-and the Holy Spirit, eyes of the readers without giving any evidence as cover is a blood­who takes the form to why one should believe in
to the reality in 

stained dress in an of a mysterious His existence at all. If one is to
which he believes. 
The Shack 

abandoned shack in Asian woman who glean anything from the novel, the wilderness outside goes by the name of he must grant Young his spe­
Wm. Paul Young 

of the campground. Sarayu. cific beliefs about the state of Missy's death Throughout his time at the shack, the universe and try to look for the
10 Words or Less: Tries to tackle universal truths 

throws Mack into Mack comes to understand many underlying message that he is attempt­
"The Great Sadness," things about himself, about religion, ing to put forward. a term Young bor­and most importantly, about what it "The Shack" is a heart-wrenching rows from Mack him­truly means to be in a relationship. but enjoyable novel that is easy to self to describe the Young clearly means for "The Shack" read. It is by no means, however, life­empty feeling of to have a similar effect on his readers changing for those who are actually worthlessness that as the experience had on Mack, or at wrestling with the important question now surrounds his least for it to open the eyes of the for which it claims to answer. everyday life. That is, readers to the reality in ""hich he until Mack receives a believes, and for extremely open-Contact Ere Prister at eprister@nd.edn 
and doubts but falls short 



By PATRICK GRIFFIN 
Scene Writer 
For a trio who "don't care about our own faults," as they proclaim in their hit "Young Folks," the release of their new album could not come sooner for Peter, Bjorn and John. The Swedish pop group's latest full-length offering, "Living Thing" drops next Tuesday, March 31. 
Famous for the song "Young Folks" 


Living Thing 

Peter, Bjorn and John Label: Sony BMG Recommended Tracks: "It Donl Move Me," "Living Thing," "Lay It Down" 
which features an infectious yet unforget­table whistling track, Peter, Bjorn and John have been riding the popularity of this single for two years. Since their last album, "Writer's Block," was released in 2006, "Young Folks" has been featured in popular television, major films, and was even sampled by Kanye West. It has not always been underground success for the Swedish trio. Since 1999, the amalgam of Peter Moren's vocals and guitar, Bjorn Yttling's bass, keyboard and vocals, and John Eriksson's percussion and vocals have been striving for musical recogni­
tion. 

Recently, however, the trio's fortune · 
has begun to run out. The single's cult 
popularity has begun to wane and at the 
recent SXSW festival in Austin, Texas, 
Peter, Bjorn and John suffered through a 
set that was referred to as "an awful 
show," by Moren. 

Peter, Bjorn and John's latest effort 
arrives in a timely matter, and with criti­
cal acclaim to boot. The album is recog­
nized by all of the major music and 
entertainment publications as a sw.eep­
ing success. 

As a whole, "Living Thing" is a slight departure from the band's familiar indie territory. With the frequent use of effected percussion tracks, along with the hollow aura present in most of th~ songs, "Living Thing" calls to mind the sparsely visited '80s music atmosphere. The band acknowledges the '80s influence on the album, citing bands such as Autolux, A­ha, Fleetwood Mac and Depeche Mode from the era as major influences. 
The leisurely pace of the album incites varying moods throughout its duration. At times during "Living Thing," the cadence of the tracks is deliberate and enjoyable, evoking the necessary foot-tapping. "It Don't Move Me," "Lay It Down" and "Living Thing" remind the listener of the glory that continues to ripple from Peter, Bjorn and John's infamous "Young Folks." Other instances leave the audience ques­tioning where the band's direction went. Several songs drag, offering nothing more than mundane beats and aimless vocals. 
While the album as a whole lacks conti­nuity, "Living Thing" nevertheless pres­ents the keen indie fan with plenty of appreciable music. Though the conven-
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

tiona! musicality typical to mainstream collections has clearly been neglected on the album, Peter, Bjorn and John salvage the audience's attention with their dedica­tion to the distinct ambience of their style. At times, the tracks sound as if they were recorded within a tin can. The wandering of Moren's trembling voice accompanied only by the curious beats begs for appreci­ation, but in actuality is not sufficiently whole. On other instances, the songs blos­som and soar as if performed in concert hall proportions. 
As a complete album, "Living Thing" is rather inconsistent. At times, Peter, Bjorn and John effortlessly transcend the simple genius that has been brooding over the airwaves since "Young Folks." Regardless, a decade of effort has resulted in a foot in the door for Peter, Bjorn and John. Whether the album has the staying power of their previous work remains to be seen. For now, "Living Thing" exhibits enough musical ingenuity to keep listeners waiting for the next earworm. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu 

The Animated Films of Georges Schwizgebel; Latin Expressions 2009: "Ritmo Latino;" "From Glass to Celluloid;" Browning Cinema; 'Century Center; 7-9 p.m. 
6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Awaken your inner Latino/a this Friday 
Recognized as one of the most important_. night as the rhythmic movements of the Swiss animated filmmakers ever, Georges · · First Class Steppers, Project Fresh dancers Schwizgebel will make a stop at the University_·.· _and sounds of mariachi music and the ND of Notre Dame to introduce the screening of a-~· -Brass Band drill intense beats combined piece that delves into 12 of his short films. His~with intricately choreographed moves unique approach to creating each individual :, throughout the Century Center in downtown frame involves painting images directly onto--'< South Bend. Tickets are on sale at the acetate film, a talent that has won him awards .LaFortune Box Office and more information at both the Cannes and the Zagreb Film; ·.·can be found on the "Latin Expressions Festivals. Visit Browning Cinema for an inspir-. :2009" Facebook page. Kick off your week­ing introduction to the man who brought inno-.. end with a high-energy performance that vation to animation and for a unique opportuni-~-will keep you dancing into Saturday morn­ty to follow him on his creative journey. 'ing. 
:·_-•••-~._-_ > .!__ .·:.-.-·_·.·.:..••..,......• •• ; .": .·-.. -:. ·c.c..,. ;·· -•. 
. ~--. '-..,. ' } ~·>-<:.:··_~, .:=~< r:--~·-·''" ,'.. -~ ·_.;.·\ ! • :-:~­.....:: "Doubt;" 101 Debartolo; 8 and 10:30 p.m. "Stomp;" Morris Performing Arts Center; If the Obama-coming-to-ND scandal has. ·~2 p.m. 
-run its course with you and is no longer doing.;'.· Though the ticket price might seem a little the trick for your scandal-loving life, travel· · hefty for your budget ($20-$45.50), seeing back to the 1960s with Meryl Streep and -~~-"Stomp" is not something you'll regret. With ·Philip Seymour Hoffman. Streep plays a nun, an instrument selection'1wasting 30 brooms, 
and principal of a Catholic grade school who £four blocks of athlete's chalk, eight bananas ·becomes convinced that the parish priest"\ and more, the vibrant and eccentric cast will . (Hoffman) molested a young boy student_;.' ,amaze audiences with their quick hands, : . but no one, not even the audience, knows for·'·-·; 'invigorating beats and flashing lights that ­sure. Amy Adams plays a young nun and<.: bring an extra bit of magic to the show. As 
. Viola Davis is the boy's mother. "Doubt" was< they move across the stage dangling from nominated for five Oscars for its outstanding·· 'bungee cords and pounding out sounds on actors who bring intensity and crucial char-':. , their junkyard assemblage of rhythmic tools, 
., acterization to this film and for a quick, smarL;~ 'make sure to not even allow a small blink · . screenplay adapted from the stage. '· :;i,because every second is worth watching....._.......llflll!llil 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

By J.J. Rees 
Scene Writer 
"When I hold an egg in my hand I feel that it represents the image of the universe, and it awakens and increases my respect for life." This citation, taken from the world-renowned chef Michel Roux, is the first thing to greet customers at Uptown Kitchen, located in the new Toscana Park Shopping Center, just off Gumwood and north ofCleveland StJI-Iighway 23. 
Welcoming patrons in with such a com­prehensive quotation, painted onto the wall in front of the door, is a bold move. The words give the impression of intellectual chefs and cerebral menus. To invite the judgment to lie on just one ingredient, the egg, is a potentially dangerous game. If the eggs aren't prepared just right, the chefs (or at least decorators) look like fools. Even if the eggs are worthy of reference, it could undermine dishes without it. 
Fortunately, the eggs at Uptown Kitchen stood up to Roux's vision. In fact, .the eggs were perfectly prepared -scrambled and cooked not a minute too early or late. Furthermore, just about everything was well-executed throughout the restaurant. 
The biggest indicator was the owner, Jonathan Lutz. It is not incredibly uncom­mon to see owners or managers chatting in the food. The "breakfast all day" shtick can be easily phoned in, but as Roux would have it, Lutz seems to have devoted himsPlf to it. The three "House Specialties" indicat­ed on the menu are the Stuffed French Toast ($8.49), the Breakfast Burrito ($8.99) and the House Made Corned Beef Hash ($8.79). This burrito's size gives Chipotle a run for its money. With spicy chorizo, per­fect scrambled eggs, avocado, potato, jalapeno, red onion and melted cheese, all stuffed in a jalapeno tortilla, this dish is everything many people would want out of a breakfast -any time of day. The salsa on the side was a fine addendum to the taste, but really only got in the way of this amaz­brewed coffee will suit a casual or serious drinker, and the bagels aren't haphazardly presnnted, like so many Midwestern offer­ingf:.. Simply offering lox with the bagels shows that Lutz, raised in Chicago and infhumced by San Francisco culinary arts, has some qualification. 
The decor was fitting for Lutz' organic, fresh locus. Soft, faded colors covered walls and paintings that surrounded a well-lit dining area and a clean, surprisingly small open kitchen. The lofty ceilings gave a sensn of open space. 
The room would be a sight to see in can­dlelight, and there's an excellent opportuni­ty coming up. On Saturday, March 29 at 

with patrons every once ing burrito. 8:30 p.m., Uptown Kitchen will be one of in a while, but Lutz Non-egg dishes are positively satisfactory. the few restaurants participating in Earth
Uptown Kitchen 

maintains a steady pres-The 12-inch pizza made for a tasty but Hour. Besides the changed menu specials, ence in the restaurant overwhelming appetizer. The soup was the the restaurant will also adopt a more envi­and visited almost every kind that is too difficult to hold off ori until ronnwntally friendly lighting system with 
303 Florence Ave. (574) 968-3030 

Hours: 7a-2p Su-T, 7a-9p W-Sa 
table. On top of that, it's cooled down. But not ordering some candles. 
within a one-hour span, dish with eggs here would be like being a \\<ith food like the restaurant's -with a Lutz acted as husser, host fan of Michael Jordan as a Birmingham focus on organic and fresh ingredients ­
Prices: Breakfast $5-11 , Entrees $5-15 
10 Words or Less: Exceptional, moderately priced 
and sommelier. But most Baron. Uptown Kitchen won't find itself lacking 
impressive of all was his Around every corner, Uptown Kitchen business. The restaurant finds a way to eating dinner at the performed well. Even things on the side provid11 high quality food and a-··superior restaurant with his wife were exceptionally prepared. The fresh atmosphere while avoiding pretentious­and three children. Any squeezed orange juice had a great taste ness. Its attention to detail and genuine restaurant tied so closely and not too much pulp. And the granola earn for food come tlrrough in every bite. with its owner is bound cookie, with raisins, cranberries and white to be well-run. chocolate, is too good to turn down. 
Clear evidence of this is Desserts are finely presented. Specialty ContactJ.J. Rees at jrees@nd.edu 
breakfast food; fresh ingredients and atmosphere 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 26, 2009 
NBA 

Clippers knock out Knicks 140-135 •
In OT 

Parker scores 42 in defeat over Hawks; Nuggets end Hornets winning streak; Young puts up 29 in Sixers win 
onds left in regulation but was too little help as the Hawks suf­
Associated Press 

called for a tech for slapping the fered their first loss at Philips 
NEW YORK -Mike Taylor backboard. Arena since March 1. No other more than doubled his career Taylor knotted it with a jumper Atlanta player scored in the peri­high with 35 points, Zach with 2 1/2 minutes left in the od until Mike Bibby's 3-pointer Randolph added 33 against his extra period, Randolph followed with 1:54 remaining and Josh former team, and the Los with a bucket and Taylor banked Smith added a jam 30 seconds Angeles Clippers outlasted the in a runner in the lane for a 137-later to cut the Spurs' lead to 96­New York Knicks 140-135 in 133 lead with 1:35 left. 90. . overtime Wednesday night. The Clippers had lost three Parker, who had 10 assists, 
Al Thornton scored 21 and Eric straight overall and averaged answered with six straight points Gordon had 19 for the Clippers, only 76.5 points in the last two. for the Spurs. who snapped a nine-game road They passed that less than 4 min­Spurs coach Gregg Popovich losing streak. Seemingly on the utes into the second half against rested Duncan the day after a way to being run off the floor a Knicks team that recently home win over Golden State. while surrendering 44 points in absorbed home losses against Duncan already sat out back-to­the first quarter, they quickly sub.-500 teams New Jersey and hack games earlier this month to erased a huge early deficit and Sacramento by a combined 53 rest his knees. ended two games worth of dis­points. Roger Mason had 18 points and mal offensive efforts, shooting 58 The Knicks made 13 of their Michael Finley added 13 for the · percent from the field. first 15 shots and were up 27-8 Spurs. 
And for the second time this after Chandler's jumper with still Flip Murray, who had a season­season, they benefited from a 5:59 remaining in the first quar­high 30 points against Minnesota late technical foul on New York's ter. New York led 44-28 after on Monday, stayed hot by scoring Al Harrington after a dunk that one, shooting 79 percent (19-of-13 points in his first 8 minutes ofl' a mid-range jumper early the night. had given the Knicks a three­24) in its best period of the sea­the bench in the !'irst half. fourth quarter. Then Smith, a for­The Sixers are the worst 3­point lead in the final half-minute son. Murray, who finished with 15 mer Hornets' first-round draft point shooting team in the NBA of regulation. The Clippers wasted no time points, helped the Hawks stay choice, nailed a 3 to give Denver and hadn't made one all game 
Harrington finished with 38 coming back behind Taylor, who close early, despite Parker's 20 a 94-73lead with 7:38left. until the fourth quarter. Andre points for the Knicks, who became the first player drafted first-half points. Fans began getting up and Iguodala and Royal lvey hit two matched a season high with their directly from the NBA. With Parker making 10 of 13 heading for the exits, while one apiece in the quarter to open up sixth straight loss. Development League when shots, the Spurs led 53-48 at yelled, "you never should have let a double-digit lead and led 
New York raced to a 19-point Portland took him in the second halftime and stretched the lead him go," in an apparent refer­Philadelphia to its third straight lead in the first 6:01, heard boos round in 2008. His jumper to double figures at 72-61. Mason ence to Smith, who had 16 win. . after blowing all of it before half­capped a 13-2 spurt to open the had back-to-back 3-pointers in a points. Rodney Carney scored 21 time, and ended up with another second quarter and got Los 12-3 run in the third period. Hilton Armstrong and Rasual points and Craig Smith had 20 embarrassing loss against one of Angeles within five. The Hawks answered with a Butler each scored 10 points for for the Timberwolves, whose new the NBA's worst teams as it limps Taylor scored 17 in the quarter 13-2 run to pull even at 74 enter­New Orleans, which played an lineup couldn't help them avoid to the finish of its eighth straight -surpassing his previous career ing the fmal period. unusually sloppy game. Paul their sixth straight loss. losing season. Wilson Chandler high of 15 for a game. He blew Manu Ginobili had two points turned the ball over six times, Iguodala, who scored 15, hit backed Harrington with 22 by the Knicks for a layup that in 13 minutes as he returned in a and Denver wound up converting the go-ahead 3-pointer early in points. gave the Clippers a 63-62 edge limited role for the Spurs after 19 Hornets turnovers into 18 the fourth for a rare bright spot 
The Knicks know Randolph with 1:50 remaining, eliciting missing 19 games with a right points. in an otherwise horrid game well, having traded him to the loud groans from the Madison ankle injury. ln the second half, Anthony from the floor. lvey made back­Clippers in November in a deal Square Garden crowd, but the and Billups combined for 33 to-hack 3-pointers for a 76-69 that helped them clear salary­Knicks recovered for a 66-65 Nuggets 101, Hornets 88 points. lead and the Sixers started to pull cap space for the summer of advantage at halftime. Carmelo Anthony scored 29 Anthony started quickly, scor­away from the lowly 2010 but weakened them for The Knicks shot 64 percent in points and the Denver Nuggets ing Denver's first four points of Timberwolves. now. He was their leading scorer the first half and the Clippers beat New Orleans 101-88 on the game on a jumper and a Young, who went 9-for-18, at the time and had helped New made 59.5 percent of their Wednesday night, snapping the dunk. He had 13 points in the made a fadeaway 21-foote-r and York get off to a promising start, attempts. They picked right up Hornets' three-game winning first quarter alone, with his 3-made a layup to cap an 11-0 run fitting in better than expected where they left off after the streak. pointer giving Denver a 24-14 and give Philadelphia a double­under Mike D'Antoni. break, with Los Angeles hitting Chauncey Billups scored 26 lead. digit lead. Ivey's 3s were his only 
Taylor is much less known, six of its first eight shots and New points, hitting four of his five 3-Smith's 3-pointer to open the two baskets arid points of the coming into the game averaging York starting 6-of-9. Thornton pointers in the second half to second quarter gave Denver a game. 
3.9 points in his rookie season. scored nine points as the Clippers help the Nuggets pull away after 31-21 lead. Then the Hornets Carney kept Minnesota in the Yet he was so good Clippers brought a 95-93 lead into the the game was tied with a little clawed back into the game with game and one of his seven 3-· coach Mike Dunleavy used him fmal quarter. over 7 minutes to go in the third mostly reserves on the floor and pointers late in the game instead of the struggling Baron quarter. Chris Paul on the bench. Morris trimmed the deficit to seven. Davis to open the second half, Spurs 102, Hawks 92 Chris Paul had 19 points and Peterson's 3 ignited a 12-2 run, Young, though, punctuated the and he played 37 minutes. Tony Parker scored 42 points 13 assists, and David West scored capped by Antonio Daniels' 3-win with a thunderous dunk to 
Neither team led by more than and the San Antonio Spurs, play­18 points for New Orleans (44-pointer, which tied tM game at make it 94-85 and send the fans five in the second half and ing without Tim Duncan, ended 26), which dropped a game 33. toward the exits. Harrington's driving dunk gave Atlanta's eight-game home win­behind Denver (46-26) in the New Orleans briefly took a 44-Coach Kevin McHale spun his the Knicks a 127-124 lead with ning streak with a 102-92 victory Western Conference standings. 43 lead on Julian Wright's three­decision to start five reserves in 27 seconds left. But he was called on Wednesday night. The score was tied at 55 when point play, a fast-break under­place of the regular lineup as a for hanging on the rim, and Despite the loss, the Hawks Anthony scored six quick points handed f1ip off the glass as he reward for the way they helped Gordon hit the technical free clinched their second straight on two free throws and a pair of was being held by Anthony fuel a late comeback against throw to make it a two-point playoff spot, after losses by transition jumpers. The f1urry Carter. Billups responded with Oklahoma. game. Randolph tied it with two Milwaukee, Charlotte and New began a 17-6 run that lasted late his first 3-pointer of the game, The Sixers closed the quarter free throws with 13 seconds Jersey. into the third quarter, putting and Denver led 46-45 at half­on a 9-0 run, thanks to five free remaining, and Chandler was Parker enjoyed his second-best Denver up 72-61. Billups drained time. throws, to give them a 65-62 lead short on a potential winning 3-scoring total of the season. He set his third 3 of the game during the 76ers 96, Timberwolves 88 into the fourth. pointer. a career high with 55 points at spurt, while Kenyon Martin Thaddeus Young scored 29 Minnesota didn't quite get the 
The Knicks lost in overtime at Minnesota on Nov. 5. dunked and J.R. Smith converted points and Andre Miller had 15 boost from its reserves-turned­Los Angeles last month after Joe Johnson had 30 points, a tough driving layup into a to lead the Philadelphia 76ers to starters McHale wanted and shot Harrington gave them a three­including Atlanta's first 11 points crowd. a 96-88 win over the Minnesota only 36 from the floor with 15 point lead on a dunk with 25 sec-of the fourth quarter, but he had Billups added two more 3s and Timberwolves on Wednesday turnovers. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr -day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES FoR RENT 

Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. Lux twnhs: 3 bdrms 3 ba, next to St. 2009/1 ostudent rentals Angela UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Marys $680 moper bdrm.574-271-St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 7030 harvey.18@nd.edu $2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon Do not go it alone. 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­57 4-876-3537. We have many resources in place 
Oakhill Condo-two bedroom/two Affordable Graduate and Faculty es.com Need ott-campus housing for next to assist you. If you or someone bath unit available for rent or sale Off-Campus Housing. Call for yea (09-10)? 2,3,4 and 5 bedroom you love needs confidential support from 6/1/09. Will come partly fur­Availability (574)243-2818 or (574) 1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS houses available 1/2 miles from PERSONAL ·or assistance, please call Sr. Sue nished and equipped with fridge, 276-6118. across from Notre Dame Stadium. campus, ND ALUMNI OWNED. As Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1­washer/dryer; 'dishwasher, and fire­The Foundry features private baths low as $275 per student. Contact If you or someone you care about 2685. place. Pool and clubhouse. Cable andersonNDrentals.com FREE for every bedroom, washer/dryer, on-campus rep at ebarloh@nd.edu has been sexually assaulted, visit ready. Price negotiable. COMCAST! fitness center, theater room, tanning or 1-513-706-9655 Support Services for Victims of For more information, visit NDs 
salon. game room. Preleasing for Rape & Assault at: Assistance for Pregnant Contact Jim, ND alum and parent, Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­August. AA 1 Walk to Campus 2-5 bedroom Students//Office of Student Affairs at (203).249-1428 or ing 1 0-month leases. Call 57 4-232-1400 or lease online homes 574-277-0116-http:1/osa.nd.edulhealth­websit~ at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safe­JimMcGuireCT@aol.com Bluegoldrentals.com www.foundryliving.com Cooreman.com safety/assault/ ty/assistance-for-pregnant-students. 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 26, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
ITA Women's Tenn 
s 
team points 
1 Northwestern 89 2 Georgia 81 3 NOTRE DAME 74 4 Baylor 71 5 Miami (Fla.) 68 6 Georgia Tech 68 7 Duke 68 8 California 67 9 UCLA 60 10 Southern California 57 11 Stanford 54 12 Clemson 52 13 Tennessee 49 14 Florida 48 15 Fresno St. 46 16 Michigan 40 17 Alabama 39 18 North Carolina 39 19 Kentucky 38 20 Arizona St. 37 21 LSU 37 22 Virginia 34 23 Arkansas 34 24 SMU 33 25 Florida St. 29 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse Division I Top 20 
team record points 
1 Virginia 10-o 200 2 Syracuse 5-1 190 3 NOTRE DAME 6-6 175 4 Cornell 5-1 175 5 Princeton 5-1 156 6 Hofstra 4-1 137 7 Johns Hopkins 3-3 125 8 UMBC 5-2 123 9 Maryland 6-2 119 10 Duke 7-3 118 11 Harvard 4-1 96 12 North Carolina 7-3 89 12 Brown 5-1 82 14 Massachusetts 4-3 55 15 Loyola (Md.) 5-3 49 16 Navy 6-3 39 17 Hobart 5-1 36 18 Colgate 4-3 36 19 Villanova 5-3 17 20 Albany (N.Y.) 4-1 15 
USCHO Men's Ice Hockey Division I Top 1.5 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said he and the university are looking into a Yahoo! Sports report claiming the school broke NCAA rules during the recruitment of former basketball player Nate Miles, but added Miles is not at UConn and his team remains focused on the NCAA tournament. 
Yahoo reported Wednesday that Miles, a 6-7 guard from Toledo, Ohio, was given lodging, transportation, meals and representation by sports agent Josh Nochimson, and a UConn assistant coach knew about the relationship between the player and the agent. The story cited interviews, documents obtained under Freedom of Information laws and other sources. 
Nochimson, a former student manager for UConn, was considered a representative of UConn's athletic interests by the NCAA and was prohibited from having contact with Miles or giving him any­thing of value, Yahoo reported. 
Records also show that five UConn coaches called Nochimson and text-mes­saged him at least 1,565 times during a nearly two-year period before 
team 
1 Boston U. 2 NOTRE DAME 3 Michigan 4 Denver 5 Yale 6 Northeastern 7 North Dakota 8 Minn. Duluth 9 Cornell 10 Prin§eton 11 Vermont 12 New Hampshire 13 Miami (Ohio) 14 OhioSt. 15 St. Lawrence 
record 
25-11-4 

24-14-4 
21-12-8 21,9-4 
22·11-1 
20·W5 
19-u~s,:;; 
20·12-5 23-14-4 21-12-5 
around the dial 
NCAA Basketball 
Connecticut vs. Purdue 
7:07 p.m., CBS 
Villanova vs. Duke 
9:57 p.m., CBS 

IN BRIEF Pacers Murphy injures
MCL, misses game 
INDIANAPOLIS Indiana Pacers forward Troy Murphy missed Wednesday night's game against Miami because of a sprained ligament in his left knee. 
Coach Jim O'Brien said Murphy injured his MCL at the end of a shootaround earlier in the day. 
"We think it's a mild sprain, but it's not my knee," O'Brien said. "It's very painful and he can't cut. He tried to go, he tried to warm up, but he couldn't do it." 
The 6-foot-11 Murphy, who is averaging 14.1 points and is third in the NBA at 11.8 rebounds, will have an MRI on the knee Thursday. 
O'Brien said the injury would not affect the team's workout routine on days of games. 
"You've got to practice if you want to get better, and you have to practice to get ready for games. That's what we do," he said. 
and after Miles' recruit­ment in 2006 and early 2007. Calhoun had 16 of those communications, Yahoo reported. 
Miles was expelled from UConn in October without ever playing a game for the Huskies after he was charged with violating a restraining order in a case involving a woman who claimed he assaulted her. He is now attending the College of Southern Idaho and plays·-for the school's basketball team. 
Miles could not be reached for comment. A cell phone number used by The Associated Press to contact him in the past was answered Wednesday by his uncle, Thomas Pettigrew of Toledo, Ohio, who said the NCAA needs to do more to prevent recruiting violations. 
"I just think he got mixed up with the wrong people," Pettigrew said. "There was a whole bunch of adults who should have been doing their job instead of doing what they did. 
"That's how society is," he said. "They chew you up and spit you out. If they can use you, they use you. I think the whole situation is funny, because I'm sure there are people who are sup­posed to be looking over that." 

Armstrons;! still recovering
from colrarbone surgery 
AUSTIN -Lance Armstrong was recovering Wednesday from sur­gery on his broken collarbone. 
Surgeon Doug Elenz inserted a steel plate and 12 screws to stabi­lize the collarbone, which was broken in four pieces. Rating the surgery on a scale of one to 10, from easiest to most difficult, Elenz called Armstrong's proce­dure an 8. 
"This was a challenge. It was a hard case," Elenz said in a confer­ence call with reporters. 
Armstrong broke the collarbone Monday when he crashed during the first stage of the Vuelta of Castilla and Leon race in northern Spain. He flew home to Austin on Tuesday and went straight to visit Elenz. 
The 37 -year-old American cyclist has said he still hopes to ride in the Giro d'Italia, which begins May 9, and the Tour de France in July. 
College Hall of Fame 
inducts ten players 
LUBBOCK, Texas -Former World Series star Joe Carter of Wichita State and Mississippi State's Rafael Palmeiro, who hit 569 home runs in the major leagues, are among 10 inductees into the College Baseball Hall of Fame. 
Carter was a two-time MVP of the Missouri Valley Conference with the Shockers. The outfielder won the 1993 World Series for Toronto with a home run in the bottom of the ninth inning of Game 6 against Philadelphia closer Mitch Williams. 
Other 2009 inductees announced Tuesday include pitchers Darren Dreifort tJf Wichita State and Kirk Dressendorfer of Texas; shortstop Barry Larkin of Michigan; second baseman Todd Walker of LSU and catcher Keith Moreland of Texas. 
Longtime coach Ron Polk also made the list. He's the only coach to lead three teams to the College World Series: Mississippi State, Georgia and Georgia Southern. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 26, 2009 Thursday, March 26, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

NFL MLB 
Vick accused by Dept. of Labor Pirates' prospect 
Suspended NFL star allegedly spent his pension plan funds illegally 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. -The U.S. Department of Labor filed com­plaints Wednesday accusing suspended NFL star Michael Vick of illegally spending about $1.3 million in pension plan funds for his own benefit, including paying restitution ordered in his dogfighting con­spiracy case. 
The department filed the complaints in federal district and bankruptcy courts the same day Vick left a federal lockup in Kansas, apparently bound for Virginia to appear at a bankruptcy hearing next week. Vick was at the Federal Transfer Center in Oklahoma City late Wednesday afternoon. 
Mark Lichtenstein, one of Vick's bankruptcy attorneys, declined to comment on both the Labor Department allega­tions and the details of Vick's apparent temporary move to Virginia for the April 2 hearing. 
The Labor Department said Vick made a series of prohibited transfers from a pension plan sponsored by MV7, a celebrity marketing company owned by the former Atlanta Falcons quarterback. The department alleges that Vick violated his duties as trustee of a pension plan that covered nine current or former MV7 employees. 
"This action sends a message that the Labor Departm€Jnt will not tolerate the misuse of plan 
. money and will take whatever steps necessary to recover the assets owed to eligible work­ers," Secretary of Labor Hilda 
L. Solis said in a prepared statement. 
The department also accused two of Vick's former financial advisers, Mary R. Wong and David A. Talbot, of participating in some of the transfers. 
The filing further complicates Vick's bankruptcy case, which has gradually moved along in Newport News while Vick serves a 23-month prison term in the federal penitentiary in Leavenworth, Kan. The judge presiding over the bankruptcy case has ordered Vick to testify in person at next week's hear­ing on confirmation of his Chapter 11 plan. 
U.S. Bureau of Prisons spokeswoman Felicia Ponce said Wednesday that Vick was at the Oklahoma transfer facili­ty but added that she could not disclose the inmate's ultimate. destination until it he arrives. 
·There was no indication of when Vick left Leavenworth or when he would arrive in Virginia. 
Vick will likely be kept in a southeastern Virginia jail until the hearing, but it wasn't known which one. Newport News Sheriff Gabe Morgan said he had not been notified that Vick would be staying in the city jail, but it was possible Vick and federal marshals could show up unannounced. 

U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Frank Santoro earlier this month rejected the idea of allowing testimony by video hookup, say­ing he needed Vick in the court­room so he could assess his demeanor and credibility. 
Vick's plan for paying his creditors is based largely on his intention to resume his NFL career. Vick was suspended indefinitely after his 2007 indictment, and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell has said he will review Vick's status after he is released. 
The Falcons still hold the con­tract rights to Vick but have said they will try to trade him. Vick's bankruptcy plan would allow him to keep the first $750,000 of his annual pay. After that, a percentage would go to his creditors based. on a sliding scale. 
Vick is eligible to move into home confinement no earlier than May 21 and is scheduled to be released from custody July 20. 

Styx Concert STOMP South Bend with Kansas Rhythm & Dance Symphony Orchestra 
cleared by police 
Associated Press 
BRADENTON, Fla. Pittsburgh Pirates prospnct Jose Tabata is not involved in any wrongdoing in a bizarre case in which his much-older wife is charged with abducting a 2-month-old baby girl from a Florida couple, police told the team. 
Tabata, a 20-year-old out­fielder who is one of the Pirates' top minor leaguers, said in a statement Wednesday that he is "hurt, frustrated, and confused" that his 43­year-old wife, Amalia Tabata Pereira, is accused of taking the girl from a woman at a health clinic in Plant City, east of Tampa, on Monday night. 
Tabata's wife was turned over Wednesday to authorities in Hillsborough County after she was held Tuesday night in a Bradenton jail in lieu of $750,000 bond. She was arrested after handing over the girl to authorities in a Bradenton shopping center parking lot, less than 24 hours after the infant was taken. 
Jose Tabata was questioned by Manatee County authorities on Tuesday night following his wife's arrest, but they later told the Pirates the outfielder is not involved in the case. 
"Jose was as shocked as the rest of us upon hearing the news and has cooperated fully with law enforcement offi­cials," Pirates president Frank Coonelly said Wednesday in a statement. "The Pirates organ­ization will continue to do anything and everything we can to assist and support Jose during this difficult personal time." 
Tabata, who spent part of spring training with the Pirates, did not take part in workouts at their minor league complex Wednesday and declined to talk to reporters. 
"I was shocked to be told that my wife was arrested for kidnapping," Tabata said in a , statement issued by the team. "I am hurt, frustrated and confused by her actions. I have and will continue to cooperate with law enforce­ment officials in any way that I can. Until I have all of the facts, I cannot comment any further." 
The Pirates also said they could not further discuss the incident. 
"Due to the nature of this ongoing investigation, we can­not discuss any specifics of the case, other than to say that, like Jose, we are extremely thankful the young child was safely returned to her family," Coonelly said. "Our hearts go out to her and her family for the pain they must have endured during the hours that she was missing." 
The incident probably won't keep Tabata off the field for an extended period. He is expected to begin the season with Double-A Altoona of the Eastern League, where he was optioned last week after hit­ting .407 in 27 exhibition at­bats with the Pirates. 
"We continue to he enthusi­astic about Jose Tabata as a person, player and member of the Pirates' famil}." general manager Neal Huntington said. "Jose will return to the field in the coming days when he and we feel the timing is right. Jose has been a pleas­ure for our staff to work with and we will continue to work closely with him with respect to his development and growth in all areas." 
The infant, Sandra Cruz­Francisco, was taken from her mother, Rosa Sirilo-Francisco, about 3 p.m. Monday by a woman her family only knew as "Janet," according to police in Plant City, about 60 miles from Bradenton. The mother had taken her baby for a checkup at the Plant City Health Department, where she met Janet, who said she was an immigration official. The woman told Sirilo-Francisco there were officers at her home waiting to deport her and the child's father to Mexico. 
The woman known as Janet offered to help, but said she had to take the baby. The two women drove with the infant to a farm where the child's father works and Janet told. him the same story, and the mother later handed the child over. 
Authorities in Manatee County said Pereira was detained after an anonymous tipster called police to report a woman in downtown Bradenton had information about the missing baby. The baby was handed over when police responded to that call. 
Tabata was considered one of the New York Yankees' top prospects last year, only to walk out of a game involving their Double-A Trenton farm club early last season. Tabata apparently was frustrated by his slow start. 
The incident partly led to the Yankees including Tabata in the July trade in which the Pirates dealt outfielder Xavier Nady and left-bander Damaso Marte to New York for Tabata and right-banders Hoss Ohlendorf, Jeff Karstens and Daniel McCutchen. . 
After the trade, Tabata hit .348 in 22 games with Altoona -or 100 points higher than he hit in 79 games for Trenton -and had three homers and 13 RBis in 89 at-bats. Tabata. a native of Venezuela, also impressed the Pirates this spring with his line-drive power, throwing arm and abil­ity to learn quickly. 
Upon making the trade, the Pirates apparently were unaware that Tabata was married to a woman more than twice his age who, according to the St. Petersburg Times, spent more than two years in a state prison about 10 years ago for an arson case. Family mem­bers told the newspaper that Pereira, a native of Puerto Hico, has four children of her own, all of them teenagers or older. 
The woman apparently has used at least four names in the past, and the name given to police does not match the one -Mayita -in the Pirates' media guide. 
Tabata and the woman were married in January 2008 in Ilillsborough County. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 26, 2009 
NFL MLB 
Goodell looking for Smoltz pitches in Red Sox uniform 
Right-handed pitcher throwingfor first time from mound since surgery
more season games 
Associated Press 
DANA POINT, Calif. -More games that count, perhaps as early as August 2011? That's exactly what NFL commissioner Roger Goodell wants. 
There are several hurdles before the league can expand its regular season from 16 to 17 or 18 games. Among them is reaching a new collective bar­gaining agreement with the players' union. 
Still, the commissioner hopes to present a proposal to the owners in May after the matter was discussed at length this week at the owners meetings. 
"It's possible that we could vote in May, but we want to have core discussions on this," Goodell said Wednesday. "Anytime you have change, there is some reluctance. But it's dear we don't need four presea­son games anymore." 
Goodell said the league has not seriously discussed the sub­ject with its broadcast partners. lie couldn't imagine them not being interested in more mean­ingful games. 
"I think the quality of NH programming, that every one of our network partners would say, if they have the chance to have more regular-season program­ming, they'd be interested in it," Goodell said. "A key point is the fans also recognize players they want to see are not in those pre­season games; that's why they are not attractive. They want to see those players play." 
As for those players and their union, Goodell recognizes an expanded schedule will be part of CBA negotiations. Owners opted out of the current deal last year, and it expires after the 2010 schedule, which would be an uncapped season. 
"Under the current agree­ment, additional regular-season games would not be covered," Goodell said. "I think our most important priority after we get done with our internal analysis is talking to our key partners, and that includes the players. I 
w.mt to ~e_nd :your summermring and working m the Hamptons? 
:· 
to ~~i=ka~ilie=~iJ!:n! .!llii 
Earn a $10,000 scholarship plus a weekly stipend. 
iJ!i 
Looking for a momrated, self-starterwho enjovs working with people. " 
Mustbe a male freshman ors~homore who enjoys working outside. 
think we want to make sure that the right dialogue takes place before we make any final votes." 
DeMaurice Smith, ibn NFLPA's incoming executive director, wants any decision that affects the players to happen eollabora­tively. 
"His hope is that the concerns and interests of the players will be seriously considered," said George Atallah, a director at the public relations firm Qorvis Communications and a spokesman for Smith during his transition. "He was elected by the players to be their advocato on such issues and is more than ready to serve them." 
Among the issues team own­ers must discuss is when the regular season would begin; how many bye weeks would bn scheduled; how deep into February the playoffs and Supor Bowl would go;. and when the offseason programs -including the combine and the draft ­would be held. 
Plus, where would the extra games be played, pardeularly with 17 of them? 
One possibility, an idea Goodell and senior vice presi­dent of sales and marketing Mark Waller first mentioned several years ago, would be 17 neutral-site games, including some aboard. That would enable the league to step up its eil'orts internationally, a particu­lar goal of Goodell's. 
"There's been some discussion about that," Goodell said. "That's been one of the appeal­ing features of converting pre­season games into regular-sea­son games is it gives you more 
inventory, more games that you can take to neutral sites, either internationally or domestically. So that is a compelling feature." 
Another option would be hav­ing one conference play nine home games during a season, and the other conference do s the next year. 
An 18-game schedule, obvi­ously, would eliminate such con­cerns. It also would mean drop­ping two preseason contests. 

scheduled to for another a while that happens. It's bullpen session Saturday with never happened in a game. approximately the same num­Thankfully Josh said I made a ber of pitches, but h(~ should nice adjustment on the next add his offspeed pitches to pitch, probably the best the workout. adjustment he's ever seen 
"It was more a matter of anyone make." repeating his delivory, con­Smoltz said he was throw­trolling his intensity lnveJ, ing with about 70 percent of which I think he did very his normal intensity. well," Farrell said. ''I think he "Not that that bothers me," felt good coming away from he said. "I intentionally did it. it, and he's dealing with the And even if I wanted to turn 
subtletins  it up, I had already  
in  thn  set  my  brain  in  
adjust­ "All I cared about was  motion that I was­ 
ments in his deliver­ins, but  getting the ball to the catcher. But in my  n't going to go after it. That's for time to come."  
today  was  mind I was trying to  lie had to remind  
the first day he's thrown a  hit the outside corner. the inside  himself. he said, that hi purpose in this session was to  
bullpen  of  corner.  throw, and not to  
this strul:­ think like  a  pitch­ 
turn e a  since r I y  John Smoltz Red Sox Pitcher  er. "All  cared  

Associated Press 

FOHT MYEHS, Fla. -Hight­hander John Smoltz pitched from the mound in a Hed Sox uniform for the first time Wednesday, testing his surgi­cally repaired shoulclor by throwing 40 pitchns in tho bullpen. 
Smoltz, who turns 42 in May, threw to a ··r.rouching catcher for just the second time since having surgnry to ropair a torn Labrum on June 
10. Ilis first mound snssion was in December for Heel Sox pitching coar.h John Farroll. Smoltz then signnd with Boston in January. ending his 20-year tenure with t lw Braves. He has playnd r.atch off a mound this spring, throwing to a standing catch­er. 
"This was the first time I'm throwing down to a catcher," he said. "(It's) totally diiTnrent than throwing to a eatcher standing up. I didn't think it was going to be that big a deal and it was. It's just gnt­ting used to it all ovor again. Now I'm getting used to all the components, the mound, the height of the mound, all those things that you tah for granted. 
"I can't explain the awk­wardness. I didn't think it would be that awkward," Smoltz said. ''I've been doing this for a long time, but it was awkward. But, I've not gone that long without being on the mound." 
Smoliz, who threw 30 pitch­es from a windup and 1 0 from the stretch position, is December. So there's going to be some familiarity to regain with the mound. and the intricacies of his delivery." 
With Dusty Brown catching, teammates Josh Beckett, Jon Lester and George Kottaras watched Smoltz's. 
On what would havn beon Smoltz's 12th pitch, the ball slipped from his grip during his windup and fell behind him, initially giving Farrell reason for pause -until he saw the look on Smoltz's face. 
"I probably have that hap­pen once a side session," Smoltz said. ''I'm trying to not grip the ball, trying to gip it as light as I can, and once in 
about was getting 
the ball to the 
catcher," he said. "But in my mind I was trying to hit the outside corner. the inside corner. That's for times to come, I got to remind myself." 
For the next two weeks, Farrell said, Smoltz will throw bullpen sessions every third day, leading into throw­ing batting practice and sim­ulated games before a poten­tial rehab assignment. 
"I think every day he has the ball in his hand there's excitement," Farrell said. "But, I think today signifies in his mind the light at the end of the tunnel's getting brighter." 


Ifimerested, send a resume and a briefcOIUI!o~i~~ ,II to sbeach@n.d.eduby Sunday, April 5th, ~~ ....... why you would be a great candidate for the mtermhip .... 

Thursday, March 26, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Mets' pitching struggles in 10-6 loss to Tigers 
Pavano bounces back in Indians' defeat over Padres; Reyes pitches scoreless relief in Cardinals loss to Astros 
Associated Press 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. -Oliver Perez's outing Wednesday alarmed his manager, not because he gave up six runs but because he walked six in 3 2-3 innings of the New York Mets' 10-6 loss to the Detroit Tigers on Wednesday. 
Tigers starter Nate Robertson left the game with a sprained thumb on his pitching hand. Hobertson, competing for the No. 5 spot in the rotation, was hit by a throw while trying to cover first base in the bottom of the first inning. 
Mets manager Jerry Manuel said he will watch Perez, who gave up five hits, carefully in his next couple of outings. 
"I think when you don't have command. and you don't have that extra velocity, you're going to struggle and that's what hap­pened today," Manuel said. "(Perez) had neither. We have some things to work out." 
Perez's outing comes a day after Mike Pelfrey gave up six earned runs and 10 hits, and fel­low starter John Maine has struggled, too. He has a 10.38 EHA this spring coming off September surgery to shave a bone spur in his right shoulder. 
"Pelfrey I think is OK," Manuel said. "He sinks the ball real well, so he's always one pitch away. Maine, it's a big day for him (Thursday) for his confidence." 
Left-handed reliever Ron Villone also struggled Wednesday allowing four hits and four runs in one inning. Three of the four hits were by left-handed batters. 
There were bright. spots for Manuel's staff, though. 
Bobby Parnell tossed another scoreless inning, lowering his spring ERA to 2.61 and Brian Stokes worked two perfect innings with two strikeouts. 
Carlos Beltran went 2-for-3 with a double, an RBI and a run scored in his return to the Mets' lineup. Carlos Delgado went 0­for-2. 
Tigers' shortstop Adam Everett also left the game in the top of the first after spraining his ankle sliding into second base. 
Indians 8, Padres 4 
Carl Pavano rebounded from a rough outing with six strong innings Wednesday, and the Cleveland Indians beat the San Diego Padres 8-4. 
Pavano, who appeared in only 26 games in four seasons for the Yankees after signing a $39.95 million contract in 2005, has had his share of struggles this spring. He entered the game with a 9.82 ERA, but threw 53 of 77 pitches for strikes Wednesday and was the first Indians pitcher to go six innings this spring. He gave up six runs over four innings in his last start. 
"I still have to make some 

adjustments on the mound, but I felt really good today," said Pavano, who complimented his defense -in particular two sparkling plays from second baseman Asdrubal Carerra in the fifth inning. 
"I was getting frustrated with some things, but I spoke with our pitching coach ( Carl Willis ) and he simplified some things that gave me piece of mind," he said. "I was rushing my delivery a bit and he got me back in sync. I feel good to go out there and do a job like this." 
Indians manager Eric Wedge has penciled in Pavano as the No. 3 starter in the rotation this season, and was happy to see the positive results. 
"I thought he threw well. He was on line with his pitches all day and did a good job moving his fastball around," Wedge said "He came up in the zone that one inning, but he was able to get it back down and it was good to see him make the adjustment." 
After allowing a home run to Henry Blanco, a double to Luis Rodriguez and an RBI single to David Eckstein in the third, Pavano rebounded with three scoreless innings. 
Andy Marte hit a two-run homer in the fourth, and Kelly Shoppach and Trevor Crowe ·each homered in the eighth to pace a 12-hit attack for Cleveland. 
The Padres had 11 hits, including three singles by Eckstein, who raised his Cactus League batting average to .462 (18-for-39) before departing in the fifth inning. Eckstein is one of two former Arizona Diamondbacks second basemen who will start at that spot for NL West Division rivals this season -Orlando Hudson in Los Angeles is the other. 
"I've done stuff like this before in the spring, but maybe not this hot," Eckstein said. "I was very disappointed with my swing last year, and that's what I work on with my brother during the whole offseason. I've tried to simplify my approach and it's been going well." 
San Diego starter Knvin Correia pitched into the sixth inning, but wasn't happy after allowing nine hits and six runs. 
"I felt like I threw the ball well, but I'm looking for some results at this point," Correia said. "We reset to zero when the season starts, but any time you go out there you want to pitch well. 
"You're not always going to feel good out there. I got to 90 pitches (actually 92) and now I need to get some kind of a springboard into the season." 
Astros 4, Cardinals 3 
Dennys Reyes made his debut in a St. Louis Cardinals uniform Wednesday, pitching a scorPiess inning of relief in a 4-3 loss to the Houston Astros. 
R(lyes, who is with his lOth club after signing a two-year deal with the Cardinals earlier this month, showed little signs of rust after having not thrown since making three appearances for Mexico in the World Baseball Classic. Mexico was eliminated in the second round March 16. 
On Wednesday, he nntered the game in the top of the eighth with the score tied at 3 and faced four batters, surrendering only a double to llunter Pence . 
"I wanted to throw strikes," said the 31-year-old Heyes, who spent the last three seasons with the Minnesota Twins. 
"It was the perfect situation, just like during the rPgular sea­son in the eighth inning of a tie game. You have to go out there and throw strikes and I concen­trated on that and on locating my pitches over the plate." 
This game was a showcase for pitchers on both sides. 
Houston's starter Russ Ortiz is competing for the fifth spot in the starting rotation and had a two-hit shutout going into the fourth inning bnfore giving up back-to-back, two-out doubles to Hyan Ludwick and Khalil Greene. Ortiz left aftnr the fifth inning, having allow1~d one run on five hits with two walks and four strikeouts. I lis delivery and routine on the mound were hampered because of a stomach illness. 
a moral fQundatil:m f<1r the helping professions±·.. 

page 20 The Observrr + SPORTS Thursday, March 26, 2009 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Aztecs hold on to defeat St. Mary's 

Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -The fans stormed the court and Frank Sinatra's "New York, New York" blared over the sound system. 
The biggest game in San Diego State hoops history ended with Steve Fisher's Aztecs earning a trip to the Big Apple and sending Patrick Mills into his offseason. 
The Aztecs· raced to a huge lead at noisy Cox Arena, blew it all, then rallied to beat Mills and the Saint Mary's Gaels 70­66 on Wednesday night to reach the semifinals of the NIT. 
"It's an understatement for me to say that this was an important victory for our pro­gram," said Fisher, who arrived at SDSU in 1999 and revived its sad-sack program. 
Billy White scored 17 for the Aztecs (26-9), who will play the ball out of bounds. 
Mills drew his fifth foul and Williams again made the sec­ond of two free throws for a 70-66 lead. 
The Aztecs were just 4-of-8 from the line in the final 1:42. 
SDSU had lost to Saint Mary's in consecutive appear­ances in the John Wooden Classic, including 67-64 on Dec. 13. 
SDSU jumped to leads of 13­0 and 18-3 as Mills and the Gaels started cold. Saint Mary's pulled within five late in the first half before SDSU took a 39-28 halftime lead. 
"We were letter perfect," Fisher said of the opening salvo. "We were making every shot. We were turning them over. They were on their heels. "We jumped off to a phenom­enal start," Fisher added. "We owe our crowd. In the 10 years I've been here, I have not heard a 

Baylor (23­14) in the semifinals on Tuesday night  "In I o years I've been here, I have not heard a louder crowd for  louder crowd for the duration." The game drew a sellout crowd of  
at  Madison  the duration."  12,414  to  Cox  
Square  Arena, including  
Garden. Fisher  was  Steve Fisher  former SDSU and NFL football star  
part  of  two  Aztecs coach  Marshall  Faulk,  

NIT champi­onships while at Michigan, as an assistant to Bill Frieder in 1984 and as head coach in 1997. Fisher coached Michigan to the NCAA title in 1989. 
SDSU and Saint Mary's (28-7) both felt they should have been in the NCAA tournament. As it is, the Aztecs are the last Mountain West Conference team still playing in the post­season. 
This is the deepest SDSU has advanced in a national post­season tournament in its Division I history. 
SDSU blew a 13-point sec­ond-half lead, but Saint Mary's never took the lead. 
Tim Shelton posted up for the go-ahead basket with 48.6 seconds left and Richie Williams made three free throws in the final 26 seconds as the Aztecs held off the Gaels. 
The fast, normally exciting Mills had a miserable end to his season. He was on the bench at the final buzzer, hav­ing fouled out with 10.8 sec­onds to go. He scored a game­high 18 points but had a horri­ble night shooting, going 7 -for­24 overall and 4-for-13 on 3­pointers. 
"It was one of those days," said Mills, the Australian Olympic star who is widely expected to turn pro following his sophomore season. 
Mills -who came in shoot­ing 86.7 percent from the free­throw line -missed the front end of a one-and-one with 34.9 seconds left and the Gaels trailing 66-64. SDSU's Kyle Spain rebounded and Mills fouled Williams, who made both ends of a one-and-one for a four-point lead. 
Mills made a layup with 14.9 seconds left and Williams answered by making the sec­ond of two free throws to make it 69-66. After a timeout, the Gaels inbounded the ball to Mills but he inexplicably lost 
who sat courtside, next to San Diego Chargers coach Norv Turner. 
"I didn't think we were quite ready for the storm that hit us to start that game," Saint Mary's coach Randy Bennett said. "They are not used to not wi'nning. As a coach, you can't ask for anymore than to have a chance to win that game down the stretch." 
The Aztecs were up 46-33 early in the second half before Saint Mary's started closing the gap. Saint Mary's tied it at 64 on Mills' fast-break layup with 2:02 left but could 'never take the lead. 
"We had every excuse in the world to lay down and die," Mills said. "But we are a tough team." 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles face struggling Grizzlies 
against Manchester last week.
By CHRIS MASOUD The Spartans held off a Saint 
Sporrs Writer 

Mary's comeback in the sev­enth to win the first game by a 
With only two losses to their score of 7-5. name midway through the sea­But showing the importance son, the Belles will head into of a short memory, the Belles their match against Franklin came back in the second game today hoping to continue their to jump on the Spartans in the 
torrent  pace  early innings.  
towards the MIAA  Stingy pitch­ 
playoffs. Saint  Mary's  "I was proud ofour  ing and strong  
(12-2) will travel to face non-con­ference opponent  pitchers for staying in two tight games."  defense helped the Belles hang  
Grizzlies (3-11) in a doubleheader.  Erin Sullivan  on for victory.  a  5-4  
Franklin is com­ Belles coach  A  2004  
ing  off  a  late­ alumna  in  
inning,  come­ her  fourth  
from-behind vic­ season as the  

tory against Transylvania, one head coach of the team, Erin of the top teams in the IICAC, Sullivan knowsjw.w good her to split a doubleheader. players can be when they play 
The Belles are also rebound­to their full potnntial. ing from a doubleheader split "I was proud of our pitchers in their previous matchup for staying in two tight games," Sullivan said. "I am hoping today's games were a good wake-up call for us to make sure we play our game and play the sport with pas­sion, the way it is meant to be played." 
For better or for worse, the Belles have had a full week off to recover and to prepare for a Grizzlies team that can be dan­gerous when underestimated. 
Saint Mary's will look for strong performances in the lineup from freshman Lauren Enayati and senior Ashley Fusaro, who have been instru­mental in the Belles' success thus far. But in the end, strong pitching and solid defense will play a dominant factor in today's outcome. 
Saint Mary's takes the field at 3:00 p.m. at American Legion Field in Franklin, Ind. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Mon., March 30th 11AM-7PM The Gillespie Center at the Hilton Garden Inn 
Located on SR 933 and Dou~J!as Rd. on the campus of St. Mary's 
Delicious chocolate samples from some of the finest local restaurants, shops & bakeries. 
Cookir1q demonstrations 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR Cllildren under 5 FREE 
Prese.nted By: SAINT((flt)SEPH 
f\l-~l<m.1l \ h!K ,~{{~dtkt 

Photos with the ., Easter Bunny 
Prizes 

-$5 Each 
960A ies~ 
NEWSTALK 
~ 
"lJ 1"f I -v-E R. S I 'I' Y' <:::> F 
~C>'T _R_ E, I:>_A._ lVI E, 
C <>L I......E.<;;. .E. <> F 
.A..R.."'"S 

.A.:N' I> L.E"'"'I".E. .R..S 
I :r~.·'V"·i 1: e s "N" <> -.......... i.:rt. a 1:i c::> -.-. s £<>r the 

E~~cl-. ye.c.:"lr, tJ-.e s·l'"le~.;.:'!'(:..-:ly -Avv-.t.::tJ:•<...-i., ·~-=."':\'1"')''\eci f<.>r ~~ fc..:>·a·t--.,er c.-teC'\1­c::>.f t:.l"'lC'.i~ C::::c:·.>.ll<~s"-'~ c::,f A rt:s <i.'lt:"'lcl 1-co~t:t"-'~•~s. l'lc:·>t'l<:>t·s <>•,_e r.,:-'1.<.••-:r-..bos•r <>:f t:l'lc .Arts anc1 l--<"t:t:C'.i~rs t'acL&lt:y fc:.:.1· c·n...ttsta.nctiJ·-..g t<'.i.,ac.J--.ing 
l3c.:>th. st"Ll.cier"t:s ~'lnci f"n<~ulty <.'u·co• i..rtvih;~d h:> SL&brn.i.t n<.>.n:-t.l.&:-'!..n·tic:;.:>a-. .l<ti~tt<."rs f"<.>r tl-.i.s y<.~a.r's m·w~'lrc::.:l t<.:>: 
Stt-1.art: Gree.t:"'e Assc:::>cia tOE~ L.:>ea:n. £c::>r U:t~<..-:IE~rgra<..'"i 1-.1.a.t:e St:Lt.clies ~104 C:>'Shaugh.t-.essy .1-,:.l.al.l 
I.:> ea.d.I i :rae ~.on.da.y.... April "1.3, .2009 
.----------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------­
Thursday, March 26, 2009 
Ho01ers 
continued from page 24 
slow pitchers," Gumpf said. "But what was really impor­tant was when their pitch_ers missed, they took advantage." 
Jorgensborg sparked the offense twice more with an RBI single in the third inning and a home run to left center in the sixth to cap the scoring for the Irish. 
Notre Dame came out fast in the second game of the doubleheader as well. 
Fleury began the bottom of the first with a walk and advanced to second on a sac­rifice bunt. Junior third base­men Heather Johnson and Lux then walked to load the bases for freshman second basemen Dani Miller, who promptly placed the ball behind the left field fence for a grand slam. 
Miller, who went from little playing time at the beginning of the season to a starting job, has been an offensive force for the Irish during their current homestand. 
"She really deserves it," Gumpf said. "There isn't any­one who works harder than Dani. She fires me up, the way she approaches the game." 
The Broncos scored their only run of the game in the 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
third inning on a walk and an error. 
Sophomore pitcher Jody Valdivia (5-5) allowed just one hit and an unearned run in her seven innings of work. She struck out eight batters. 
"It was one of [Valdivia's] best outings," Gumpf said. "She had good stuff and it W.{LS really moving. She kept the other team guessing." 
Gumpf said the early runs for the Irish were helpful for both pitchers. 
"It takes all the pressure off," she said. "I know Bargar and Jody really appreciate it." 
Morrissey Manor Medallion Hunt 

The Irish added an extra four runs in the bottom of the sixth. Jorgensborg began the inning with a single and advanced to third on a walk and a wild pitch. Fleury then batted her in with a single. The Irish added three more on two walks, a sacrifice fly and an error. 
Notre Dame will have two days' rest before traveling to Georgetown and South Florida this weekend to play in their first conference road games. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Abandon all hope The Medallion has been found 
Thanks for playing 
Thinking about Grad School? 

page 21 


Hoosiers 
continued from page 24 
Katya Zapadalova, who com­peted in the NCAA singles tournament last year as a freshman. 
Notre Dame enters tho final stretch of its regular season schedule with only seven games remaining until the Big East championship tourna­ment. After the Irish host Baylor next week at home, they will head on a four-game road trip where they will play four games in five days, simi­lar to the pace they will run into at the NCAA tournament in May. 
NBA 

Pacers stymie Wade, squeak out home win 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's home-court mastery of cold­shooting Dwyane Wade and the Miami Heat came down to one possession, one last shot and one big scare. 
The 90-88 victory Wednesday night-was Indiana's 17th straight home win against the Heat, but it wasn't certain until Wade's desperation 3-point shot went halfway down and rimmed out at the buzzer. 
"I thought it was (going in) for a quick second, then I saw he shot it a little to the left and that's why it rolled out," said Danny Granger, who led Indiana with 28 points. "Fortunately, he missed it." 
Wade, the NBA scoring leader at almost 30 points a game, had 21 points but was just 5-of-24 from the field, including 2-of-11 in the second half. 
"I think it was good defense collectively," Granger said. "A player like Dwyane Wade, he scores out of this world, he does it on a regular basis." 
Indiana trailed by four early in the fourth but took control with a 13-1 run midway through the quarter and held 
The dwindling time before postsea.son play is set to begin has Louderback anxious to see improvements from his team over the next few weeks. 
"1 think our doubles has improved, but we need to get where all three teams are more consistent," he said. "We still have some big matches coming up, including two top-four teams in Northwestern and Baylor, where I think we can do that." 
Notre Dame's in-state matchup with the Hoosiers is scheduled to begin at 3 p.m. in Bloomington. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
on despite going scoreless for nearly the final 4 minutes. The 17 straight wins, including three in the playoffs, go back more than seven years, and Wade has never-won in Conseco Fieldhouse. 
"I don't know why we are so dominant here against them, I really don't," Granger said. "But it's a good streak." 
Granger had seven points, and T.J. Ford six during Indiana's big run, and a 3­pointer by Granger gave the Pacers their biggest lead at 90­
80. Former Pacer Jermaine O'Neal had two baskets during an 8-0 run that brought Miami within two. The Heat then had two chances to tie, but neither Udonis Haslem nor Wade could convert in the closing seconds. 
"It's just one of those nights, man," Wade said. "Naw, I got a lot of good shots. I've played against the Pacers many times, so I know how to play against them. I just missed a lot of shots I normally hit. It's just one of those nights." 
Haslem finished with 18 points and 14 rebounds, and O'Neal had 13 points and three blocks but only two rebounds. 
Ford added 20 points and Jarrett Jack 13 for the Pacers. Jeff Foster, starting in· place of injured Troy Murphy, had a season-high 16 rebounds. 
The bulk of the defense on Wade throughout the game was by Indiana rookie Brandon Rush. 
"I just tried to challenge him on every shot he took and tried to stay in front of him," Rush said. "I tried to contest every­thing he put up and make sure I got a hand up every time he left his feet." 
Wade hit only three of 13 shots in the first half but kept Miami close from the free­throw line. 
He hit all six of his first-half foul shots, including the first two during a 10-2 run that erased an early seven-point Pacers lead. A 3-pointer by James Jones and a basket by Michael Beasley put the Heat _ up 29-27 early in the second period. Wade pushed Miami's lead to 49-45 with two more free throws with 13 seconds left in the half, but a 3-pointer by Jack with 2 seconds to go got the Pacers within one. 
Miami took its biggest lead at 74-70 on two free throws by Mario Chalmers before a bas­ket by Ford started Indiana's decisive run. ­



page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 26, 2009 
GWLL 
continued from page 24 
Corrigan was not pleased with offensive execution in particular. 
"In the first half we were too quick offensively and not very good," Corrigan said. "We didn't take advantage of opportunities from the out­set." 
The Knights remained within striking distance for much of the day, and the. Irish (7 -0, 1-0 GWLL) only had a 7-5 lead with 1:15 left in the third quarter. However, senior attack Duncan Swezey scored three of his four goals in just over 1 1/2 minutes at the end of the third and the start of the fourth period to give the Irish a 10-5 lead and squan­der ~ny hopes of a Bellarmine rally. 
Corrigan thought that Swezey should have had an even stronger performance, but was pleased with it nonetheless. 
"Duncan was like a lot of our guys," Corrigan said. "He should have had seven goals, but I'm glad he had 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
Kyle McAlarney said. " ... It's obviously very special to go out like that and the fans were great, and we can't thank them enough." 
The Irish improved their all­time record against Kentucky to 18-41. 
Notre Dame led by as many as 17 points in the second half but Kentucky fought back to make it 6 7-62 with 2:41 left. Wildcats junior Jodie Meeks, who scored just three points in the first half, exploded for 18 after intermis­sion to lead the comeback. 
"It looked like we were on the verge of putting them away but he is such a potent guy," Irish coach Mike Brey said of Meeks. "You know, two threes and all of a sudden it's a game again. And he kept the game pressure on us. We just couldn't get away." 
But the Irish responded to the Wildcats run as McAlarney and junior Luke Harangody hit 9-of­10 free throw attempts in the final two minutes. 
"We were poised offensively, made big free throws," Brey said. "I think we're excited to get to New York." 
Harangody led Notre Dame to four." 
Bellarmine scored the first goal of the game at the 12:47 mark when Knights sopho­more Jarrett Davis tallied his first of two scores on the day. The Irish responded nearly two minutes later with Swezey's first goal off an assist from sophomore midfielder David Earl at the 
10:49 mark. 
The teams remained tied until Irish sophomore mid­fielder Zach Brennenman scored with 2:35 left in the first quarter. Senior mid­fielder Dan Gibson scored 50 seconds later to make the score 3-1, but a goal by Bellarmine sophomore Dereck Hopcroft made the score 3-2 at the end of the period. 
Bellarmine tied the game at three with a goal from junior Brian Doyle nearly two minutes into the second quarter. However, two goals from junior midfielder Grant Krebs put the Irish on top 5­3 with just over 11 minutes to play in the half, and a tally from junior attackman Matt Ciambella put the Irish on top by three halfway through the second quarter. Knights sophomore Chase 
an early lead it never relin­quished as he scored 11 of the team's first 14 points. He also helped hold Kentucky forward Patrick Patterson to just six first­half points. The hot start pro­pelled Harangody to a final stat line of 30 points and 11 rebounds. 
"It was good to·get off to a good start for myself, inside and outside," said Harangody, who hit two 3-pointers in the contest. "Coming into this game, [Patterson] is one of the best post players in ,the country so just getting in a rhythm like that was key for me." 
The Irish made 7 -of-14 3-point attempts in the first half as they built a 34-26 halftime lead. McAlamey and Ryan Ayers com­bined to go 7-of-16 from behind the arc in the contest. 
"Zach [Hillesland] and Ty Nash really screening really freed us up a little bit but I think we were ready [to shoot]," McAlarney said. "We wanted to get some good looks in transition ... They were really coming in on [Harangody] tonight so credit him for his kickouts. It's our job to be ready and take those shots but credit our teammates for getting us open." 
Midway through the second half, the Irish went on a 10-4 run to take a 62-45 lead. But 

SENIOR SENDOFF 

PAT COVENEY!The Observer Senior Kyle McAiamey is greeted by classmate Ryan Ayers and junior Luke Harangody in his final home game Wednesday. 

Williams scored with 4:11 play in the half to make the score 6-4 at the break. 
Doyle scored his second goal of the game to narrow the gap to one just 50 sec­onds into the third quarter. The Irish responded as Krebs scored his third goal of the game at the 7:59 mark to put the Irish up two. Swezey would score two of his three straight goals in the final 1:15 of the quarter to put the Irish up 9-5 head­ing into the final period. 
Swezey scored his fourth goal with 14:37 left in the game to give the Irish a five­goal cushion. Davis added his second tally for Bellarmine almost a minute later to make it a 10-6 game, but that would be as close the Knights would get, as Irish junior attack Neal Hicks concluded the scoring with 9:20 left in the contest. 
Notre Dame improved to 4­0 all time against Bellarmine and 15-1 in GWLL openers. The Irish return to action on Tuesday for a non-confer­ence tilt at home against Villanova. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Meeks and the Wildcats battled back, cutting the deficit to single digits. When Meeks hit a 3-point­er to make it 64-55, the thou­sands of Kentucky fans in atten­dance rose to their feet. But the Notre Dame fans responded, helping the team stave off the comeback. 
"What a great atmosphere in there," Brey said. "One thing about the Kentucky fan base, man, they travel. And they made our fans compete tonight so it was really a great atmosphere in there." 
A dunk by Ayers in the final minute put an exclamation point on the Irish victory. 
"To go out with a win as a sen­ior, playing with these guys that you love to play with every day [is] really special, and we're just thankful for everyone coming out and being a part of our four years here," Ayers said. 
After closing the Joyce Center with a win, the Irish now look ahead to a semifinal matchup against Penn State Tuesday. The NIT final will be played Thursday. 
"We're extremely excited and we're looking to cut down the nets there in the Garden, so it's not over yet," McAlarney said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
SUMMER IN MAINE Miesand females. Mfttnewfriendl. TrMI! 
Tach yaurfavorlttactMty 
ifMll ._  -WN  
~ .,.,..,  MtJIIIr,.  
-­ S«at  

-~~ 
,.,.,. lmJif 
n..eowFW4-*,.,
.....
...........
......... 
.,&Mif.AI'wOiilf; 
if».,~ 
•.~.{.M 
Walks 
continued from page 24 
Shane McCatty, but he fared no better. Senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes hit a triple to the warn­ing track that scored Grosso and tied the game at five. 
Spano struck out two in the top of the eighth, but also walked sophomore catcher Brett Greschke. The Grizzlies pinch-ran freshman Tim Ryan for Greschke and Ryan stole second and third on two con­secutive pitches. When junior righty Steven Mazur came in to face the right-handed Jarrad, the Grizzly singled to left to give Oakland a 6-5 lead. 
"We don't really start scoring runs until the fifth inning," Schrage said. "If I could put my finger on it and figure out why ... I don't know if it's coin­cidence or what." 
Oakland got on the board in the top of the second. Stafford doubled off the wall in center field and advanced to third on a wild pitch. Sophomore desig­nated hitter Dan Gliot popped out in foul territory near first base, but Stafford scored after tagging up. 
Notre Dame tied the score at one in the bottom of the inning. Two walks and a single loaded the bases, and sopho­more catcher Matt Scioscia lined out to right field to drive in Barnes. 
Oakland scored two in the third inning. Geschke singled to lead off and senior center fielder Justin' Wilson walked. Jarrad bunted the runners to second and third, and sopho­more second baseman Tommy Jablonski's sac fly drove in Geschke. Stafford singled in Wilson and Oakland led 3-1. 
Spano replaced Sabatino in the top of the fifth, but the struggles continued. Stafford singled and advanced to sec­ond when Spano was called for a balk. Sophomore first base­man Aaron Wick walked, and an error on freshman second baseman Tommy Chase allowed Stafford to score. Sophomore left fielder Eric Ogg singled in Wick and the Grizzlies led 5-1. 
The Irish got one back in the sixth. Casey doubled down the left-field line, advanced to third on a passed ball and sophomore third baseman Greg Sherry's groundout scored him to make the score 5-2. 
"As a team, we just need to work on getting ready to go off the get-go," Grosso said. "Jumping on teams early, that's something that we've talked about as a team all year." 
The Irish play a three-game series at Pittsburgh beginning Friday. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 



Thursday, March 26, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Kevin G. Der  
35 Second part of a  44 Health  55 Precursor to  
three-part command  supplement store  Surrealism 57 Rock genre  
36 Dortmund denials  47 Tear off forcefully  58 Series finale  
37 ''Volver" actress, 2006  48 Be serious 49 Long hyphen  59?, on a sched. 60 Not even rare  
38 Not decent  52 Becomes fuller  61 Code carrier  
39 Advantage  53 Honor  62 "Poor venomous fool," to  
43 Unsettling look  54 Water colors  Shakespeare  

-----------------------· 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year) . Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Sheryl Swoopes, 38; Sarah Jessica Parker, 44; Elton John, 62; Aretha Franklin, 67 
Happy Birthday: Don't get all worked up over nothing. It's the thinldng Aries who will win this year and have others marveling at the way you can magically make things happen. Your uniqueness will not go unnoticed. Your ability to drum up support and enthusiasm will help you finish what you start. Your numbers are 8, 16, 19, 24, 28, 35,43 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You need to get rid of anything or anyone holding you back. Organization will be required to fulfill responsibilities that you promised you would take care of. A new beginning will be easier once you clear the way. *** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Put your skills to work for you. Offer services that you have perfected over the years. Stick to your budget and do not give in to sales that promise you the impossible. It's amazing what you can do when backed against a wall. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be disappointed if you bank everything you've got on a plan that isn't foolproof Promises made will be broken due to circumstances beyond your control. Be clear about what you have to offer. ** 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Separate business from pleasure if you want things to run smoothly. A love relationship may need an adjustment before it's too late to do anything about something you have grown to dislike. Take a serious look at the changes needed at 
home.***** 

LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): It's time to expand your awareness, try new things and open up possibilities you have never considered. Travel or getting together with people who have similar interests will help you attract love and romance as well. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't be tempted to spend your cash on something you really don't need. A tight budget will allow you to save for something you really want or that can help you get ahead in the future. Avoid anything that threatens your long-term security.*** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You need to network with as many people as possible about your plans for the future. Someone will take an interest and help you find the perfect outlet for your ideas. You can take something you really enjoy doing and turn it into a viable commodity. *** 
SCORPIO (Od. 23-Nov. 21): You have more to offer than you realize, so put your talents to work for you. A change of plans will be your advantage. An honest, emotional attempt to get your way will work, so share your feelings. ***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Before you move forward with anyone or with a deal you are involved in, make sure everyone --including yourself -is there for the right rea­sons. It will be easy for something to go wrong and anger to set in. Don't send the wrong signal.** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A personal conflict will leave you wondering if you should make some changes in your life. A different job or project will help give you some ideas about where to head, spiritually and vocationally. Don't give in to peer pressure. 
**** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can't say yes to everyone and manage to get the things you have to get done finished. Make suggestions but don't give up cash or precious time. Erratic behavior must be treated accordingly, so don't give in. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be unpredictable and impulsive in your actions and this can cost you both emotionally and fmancially. It is important for you to trust in 
someone whom you respect. Keep busy and avoid arguments. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are into everything and always curious. You are compelling, passion­ate and will never give in or giVe up. 
CROSSWORD 
Across One of the Untouchables 5 Disney's "_ and the Detectives" 9 'That's great ... not!" 14 Ryan of "Star Trek: Voyager'' 15 Film character who says "Named must your fear be before banish it you can" 16 It's good for 
Juan 17 School 18 What mi~ht have 
the head1ng "Collectibles" or 'Toys & Hobbies"? 
20 Words with innocence or consent 
22 Confused responses 23 Optimistic scan at the dentist's? 26 Not recorded 
30 Boomer's kid 31 Org. in the 
Bourne series 32 Conjured up 34 Story of Ali 
Baba? 37 Many truckers 40 One may be 
caught in it 41 Sycophant 42 Transmits a 
message to Pancho and pals? 
45 Pressing 46 Naut. heading 47 Letters on some 
churches 50 Scrabble 1a­pointers 51 Amazes a horror film director? 55 Bond villain in "Moon raker'' 56 Starters and more 57 Old street cry, or what's in 18-, 23-, 34-, 42-and 51-Across? 63 Bone meaning "elbow'' in Latin 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-'-'+'-+"+-'-! -:-:+-=+=+:-! ..::-t-=+::-t:'':-1 
..::.J...:..:..L.:=...L...:~ 


64 "Sorry, I did it'' 
65Aseeming eternity 
66 Sale caveat 
67 Conductor noted 
for wearing turtlenecks 68 Unfortunate date ending 69 Dickens's Mr. Pecksniff 
Down Marshalls 
competitor 2 Thin, overseas 3 Amount of debt, 
old-style 4 "I Am Spack" 
autobiographer 5 Socket filler 6 Kind of scene 7 Home of the City 
of Rocks National Reserve 
8 Easy two points 9 They have bows 1 0 Ancient pillager 11 President Bartle! 
on 'The West 
Wing" 
12 ''Wedding Album" recording artist 
13 "That hurt!" 19 Prop on ''The Price Is Right'' 21 Pay strict attention to 24 Center of holiday 
decorations
25 Speak in Spanish 26 Racecar adornments 27 Furniture chain 28 Deal in 29 Swirl 33 Nay sayers 34 Essays 

WWW. 8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
JUMBLE 
~!! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LE5EB
[ I t] 
©2009 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
r~fftxJ 
tDETHOB t
J [] ) 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

• WHt:N Ht: TOOK 
A. STAB A.T Nt:W 
SPORTS, Ht: 6t:C.A.Mt: A. --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


FORBIDDEN DONUT 
Are you going to Easter Mass at the Basilica this weekend? 

PAT GARTLAND 
First Obtuna, now we're lying to everyone about Easter'? WHAT'S GOING ON?!? 
Ans: 

" ( I I ]" rI I XI I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) FROZE SHINY DECODE LEGACYYesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: What the daredevil experienced "when he trimmed the bushes -LIFE ON THE "HEDGE" 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
... 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 


THE OBSERVER 
' 

PORTS
Thursday, March 26, 2009 
page 24 
BASEBALL 

Eights walks, hit batter doon1 ND in 6-5 loss to Oakland 
Grizzlies (6-11). going two­allowed three runs on two hits. D.J. Jarrad went 2-for-4 with out rally. Freshman second
By BILL BRINK 

thirds of an inning and giving Sabatino had trouble locating an RBI. Junior designated hit­baseman Tommy Chase 
Sports Writer 

up no runs. on one hit. his breaking pitches, some­ter Matt Grosso and sophomore reached after he got hit by a Oakland's starter, sophomore thing Schrage said allowed the first baseman David Casey pitch and junior center fielder Eight walks and a hit bats­Greg Welke, went 6 2-3 Grizzlies to wait for their pitch. each had two hits for the Irish. A.J. Pollock's double down the man doomed Notre Dame (14-innings, giving up five runs on "When our pitchers can only "I've been pretty spotty the third-base line scored him. 8), who lost 6-.5 to Oakland at six hits. Freshman Matt throw one pitch for a strike, last couple weeks now," Grosso Pollock advanced to third on a Eck Stadium Wednesday. LaMothe picked up his first obviously they're sitting on a said. "I was just getting up passed ball and scored on 
"That's the difference in the save. fastball and they're going to there trying to get something in Grosso's single to make the ballgame," Irish coach Dave ~Freshman Joe Spano took the drill it," Schrage said. the zone and swing at it. I just score 5-4. Schrage said. "We talk about it loss for the Irish, dropping his Senior Grizzlies shortstop tried to be a little more patient The Grizzlies took Welke out all the time." record to 0-1. Spano relieved Andrew Stafford went 3-for-5 today." and replaced him with seilior 
Junior Andrew Estes (2-0) freshman starter Steve with two runs and an RBI, and Down 5-2 in the seventh, the picked up the win for the Sabatino after four innings and sophomore second baseman Irish tied the game with a two-see WALKS/page 22 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Team hits courts at local rival Indiana 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
No. 3 Notre Dame will try to continue to rebound from a loss to Georgia Tech and stretch its win streak to three today when the Irish travel to Bloomington, Ind., to take on No. 37 Indiana. 
This past weekend, the Irish were able to bounce back from their second loss of the season against the Yellow Jackets to defeat No. 12 Tennessee and No. 29 Vanderbiit, posting scores of 5-2 in each match to push their record to 16-2 on the season. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback touted the wins as steps in the right direction fo.r his t~am. 
"They were very big wins for us because we always have trouble with both Vandy 
and Tennessee, especially at Tennessee," he said. "Getting the win at Tennessee [playing outdoors] really helps our team's confidence." 
Even with all of their expe­rience playing and beating high-ranked opponents this season, the Irish are making sure they aren't overlooking the lower profile foes like Indiana. 
"Indiana has had a solid year and is always a tough team to play. They make you 
.finish points in doubles and don't give away any free ones," Louderback said. "We have played a tougher sched­ule than Indiana up to this point and so I think we will be tough to beat." 
The Hoosiers are led by two-time all-Big Ten selection Alba Berdala and sophomore 
see HOOSIERS/page 21 

NO SOFTBALL 
Long balls propel two victories 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
It was a windy evening, but the Irish bats didn't need any extra help to clear the fences at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Notre Dame (14-11) hit five home runs to fuel its 6-1 and 8-1 victories over Western Michigan (6-12) on Wednesday. "The-y crushed those balls," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "Every single one was legit." 
The Broncos jumped on senior pitcher Brittany Bargar (9-6) early, scoring one run on two singles in the top of the first. However, it· was all they would get, as Bargar gave up only four hits for the rest of the game. 
The Irish answered with one of their own in the bot­tom of the frame on a sacri­fice fly by junior first base­men Christine Lux. 
Then the show really began. So ph om ore left fielder Brianna Jorgensborg got the 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team advances to NIT semis, seniors get win in final game at JACC 
By FRAN TOLAN Senior StaffWriter 
For the four Notre Dame sen­iors who led the Irish to a 52-3 record at home the past three seasons, the final game at the old Joyce Center could not have been any better. 
The hosts never trailed and held off a late Kentucky rally to beat the Wildcats 77-67 on Wednesday night. The Irish advance to the semifinals of the NIT, which will be played in New York City's Madison Square Garden starting next Tuesday. 
"What a way to go out. Kentucky, probably the most sto­ried program in college basket­ball, and to get a 'W,"' Irish senior 
see SENIORS/page 22 

Big Apple Bound 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
No.3 Irish net victory vs. Knights 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
The No. 3 Irish put their undefeated record on the line on Wednesday at the Loftus Center in its GWLL opener against Bellarmine and need­ed a late run to defeat the Knights 11-6. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan was thankful for the win after what he thought was a lack­luster performance by his team, who was playing its second game in four days. 
"I wasn't real pleased with our effort," Corrigan said. "Our execution wasn't good, our preparation wasn't good, and that's on me." 
see GWLL/page 22 
LA!The 

Senior Irish pitcher Brittany Bargar delivers against St. John's during a 4-3 loss at Melissa Cook Stadium on Mar. 22. 
Irish started in the bottom of more second baseman Katie the second with a one-out Fleury added another run walk. Junior catcher Alexia with a solo homer. Clay followed with a two-run "We usually struggle with blast to left that put the Irish on top. One out later, sopho-see HOMERS/page 21 




