
42nd annual AnTostal celebrates end of year 
Festival features events based on reality TV shows, 'Heavyweights' and band Slightly Stoopid 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 126 TUESDAY. APRIL 21.2009 

University a'dream school'for parents 
Admissions office says it puts· little stock in rankings that don't focus on ND's 'unique qualities' 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL News Writer 
Notre Dame was rated as the fourth-most desirable school for parents to send their children, according to a poll of "dream schools" released earlier this month by the Princeton Review. 
Various rankings of colleges are becoming increasingly popular, yet Notre Dame does not emphasize its rankings, Dan Saracino, assis­tant provost for undergraduate admissions, said. 
"It's interesting," he said. "Do we do anything different to improve our rankings? No. They are what they are." 

The dream school ranking was based on a poll of approximately 3,000 parents of college appli­cants, according to a press release from the Princeton Review. Notre Dame ranked behind only Harvard, Stanford and Princeton in these parents' list of dream col­leges. 
The Princeton Review also ranks colleges in a number of other cate­gories. For example, Notre Dame is currently ranked first for "every­one plays intramural sports" and "alternative lifestyles not an alter­native," and second for "most reli­gious students," according to the company's Web site. 
see RANKINGS/page 3 
DAN JACOBS/The Observer Pat Kuntz participates In the "Ring by Spring Dating Game" as part of the end-of-the-year AnTostal festival. 
Notre Dame's place in 
Princeton Review:  
DREAM SCHOOL FOR PARENTS:  4  
EVERYONE PLAYS INTRAMURALS:  1  
MOST RELIGIOUS STUDENTS: Source: Princeton Review  2  

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
This week marks the Student Union Board's 42nd Annual AnTostal at Notre Dame. AnTostal, which is Gaelic for "festival," is the school's end-of-the-year cele­bration. 
AnTostal's theme this year is "True Life: I'm a Domer." Many of the scheduled events will be based on various real­ity television shows. 
Megan MacCaughey, the Programmer of AnTostal, said this year's celebration 
includes both traditional favorites and new events. 
Among those carried over from past years' include the quarter-dog eating contest and the Movie on the Quad, which, this year, will be "Heavyweights." 
Also appearing at AnTostal this year will be the annual Spring Carnival, which will take place Thursday after­noon on South Quad. 
"This year's carnival will feature lots of inflatables," MacCaughey said. "New this year we also have a photo 
see ANTOSTAL/ page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


OIT gives heat to city vvaste treaters 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

No one thought poop could be so useful, until now. 
The University and its Center for Research Computing received a 2009 Green Enterprise IT Award, presented by the Uptime Institute and co­sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy, for their innovative work with the South Bend Wastewater Treatment Plant, which is responsible for breaking down waste. 
The University plans to use the heat produced by its com­puting equipment to break down waste, Dewitt Latimer, the University's Chief Technology Officer, said. 
"As part of the treatment process you actually have to apply heat to help break down the waste steam into something that can be distributed out to landfills or whatnot," Latimer said. 
South Bend spends "a consid­erable amount of money basical­ly heating poop," he said. 
"We have been looking for innovative uses for that waste heat instead of just dumping it up in the atmosphere. We're try­ing to fmd a second life for that waste heat," Latimer said. 
The heat released from com-
see WASTE/page 4 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

CLC passes diversity resolution 
Taskforce calls for creation ofcommittee supporting older diverse students 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Committee 
(CLC) unanimously passed a resolution Monday to encour­age the creation of a commit­tee to support diverse stu­dents beyond their first year at Notre Dame. 
Brigitte Githinji presented the resolution, which was created by the CLC task force on new student introduction to Notre Dame. 
Githinji said that before the task force narrowed its focus to upper-class students, it aimed to help all diverse stu­dents feel welcome at Notre Dame. 
"We wanted to see how we could help international and multi-cultural students feel comfortable and get into Notre Dame," she said. 
When the task force discov­ered that International Student Services was already involved in a similar project, Githinji said the focus shifted to diverse students on cam­pus. 
They conducted a survey of international and diverse stu­dents, in which they found that first-year students were welcomed and made aware of resources available for their adjustment to the University. After the first year at Notre Dame, however, the survey participants indicated that their needs were no longer addressed, Githinji said. 

"There's more focus on helping first year students being welcomed as diverse students," she said. "[Resources] are available for everybody and not just first 
see CLC/page 3 



ND Vision gets ready for summer 
By NORA KENNEY News Writer 
Each year, more than 60 Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's students con­tribute their talents to the Notre Dame Vision program. Some are counselors, some are musicians, but all are what the program's director, Leonard DeLorenzo, refers to as mentors-in-faith for the many high school students who attend NO Vision in the summer. 
The program, which hosts different high school students on campus during four weeks in the summer, is dedicated to helping participants discern "what vocation is, and how God calls them to give their gifts to the life of the church," DeLorenzo said. 

To achieve this, the pro­gram focuses on the values of the Catholic Church and the ways in which these values can enhance and deepen spir­ituality. The hope of the NO Vision staff is that as partici­pants grow more deeply in their spirituality, they discov­er how they are called to use 
see VISION/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Review "State of Play" with Russell Crowe page 12 +Notre Dame baseball prepares to take on Michigan page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, April21, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ceremony 
•

:rrurrorsseason 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team capped off a disappointing sea­son last week with its annual awards ceremony. The event was a perfect example of why the Irish have, and will continue to, underachieve under the watchful eyes of Mike Brey. 
The group, a preseason top 10 pick, fmished 8-11 in the Big East and failed to make the NCAA Tournament. They were rewarded with eight tro­phies on Wednesday. 
Luke Harangody 
Dan Murphy 
leads things off with the team MVP, and 
Senior Staff 
deservedly so. But 
Writer
things went south from there. Six other players won awards. On a 14­man roster that means exactly half the team went home with some hard­ware. That is better than when we passed out Paper Plate Awards at the end of summer camp. Never, since Gaylord Focker's Wall of Fame, has such mediocrity been celebrated. 
Zach Hillesland won two awards ­one for every bucket he averaged per game. There are also rumors about a Guinness Book of World Records entry for most consecutive days with a black eye. Congratulations on the student­athlete award, but the Captain Award? I thought he won that along with every other senior on the team when Brey named all four of them captains in October. 
Ayers won defensive player of the year with his thrifty 3.5 rebounds per game. But, hey, I guess Harangody can't win every category. Tory Jackson won the Outstanding Playmaker Award -a.k.a. the Starting Point Guard Award. And Kyle McAlarney came home with the Team Irish Award. The criteria for this one isn't very clearly, but let's just say Seamus O'Toole came in a close second. 
Last, and probably the least, is the Most Improved Player Award. Most is generally a word reserved for a single entity. It is hard for two things to be the "most" of anything. However, Brey managed to find a loophole in his everybody-is-a-winner-even-when­you-lose-seven-straight fantasy land. Ty Nash and Jonathan Peoples were award co-Most Improved Player Awards. 
That means that the likes of Scott Martin, Tim Abromaitis, Tim Andree and Tom Kopko went home empty­handed. I'm sorry, Who? Hansbrough the younger was ineligible and Carleton Scott hasn't seen meaningful minutes since Stone Hill came to town. 
The only player who started a game that didn't win an award was Luke Zeller. Unfortunately for the 7 -footer, the Tallest Guy on the Team Award was discontinued after last season. 
Since Mike Brey arrived at Notre Dame, the Irish have been the most frustrating team in the country. He knows the game and his players would take a bullet for him. That's the problem. He's too nice, and we all know where nice guys end up. I can't imagine Jim Calhoun or Bobby Knight giving out trophies to half of their teams. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In Monday's article "Conversation about Obama invitation continues at NO," the "conscience clause" was incorrectly referred to as the "conscious clause." The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD TEACH A CLASS AT NOTRE DAME, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 







Angela Carothers  Sarah Spieler  Johanna Kirsch  Steve Santay  Lee Haggenjos  
senior  freshman  junior  sophomore  freshman  
Badin  P.W.  McGlinn  Alumni  Knott  
"Surfing IOI  "Defense  "How Not to  "How to Grill  "Healthy ... so  
(i ?) ,,OI. .  Against the  Write: A  Good Food ...  my roomate  
Dark Arts. ,,  Superficial Look  have the DH  wouldn ,t get  
at the 'Twilight,  staffsign up. ,,  manor  

Books.,, 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Marker of popular tourist location off by 2.5 miles 
SALT lAKE OTY -Tourists who think they're putting a hand or foot in each of four states at the Four Comers area are apparently missing the mark -by about 2.5 miles. National Geodetic Survey offi­cials say the Four Corners marker showing the intersec­tion of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico and Utah is about 2.5 miles west of where it should be. 
The only place in the United States where four state bound­aries come together was first surveyed by the government in 1868 during the initial survey of Colorado's southern boundary. The survey was inaccurate. 

Florida lotto winner looks to open nude dude ranch 
BROOKSVILLE -You've heard of nude beaches, but how about a nude dude ranch? Tim Clements hit a $3.3 million jackpot in 2004, and wants to return to the farm life he grew up in. Oements and David Jennings, co-owner of the ranch, said the farm is secluded enough to be in the buff. 
But they have two big prob­lems -local zoning laws and a nudity ban in Hernando County. 
Clements said they'll try to get the necessary paperwork, but if they can't get approval he'll close the 0 Ranch again to all but friends. 
Strong winds to blame in New York golf cart accident 
FISHKILL, N.Y. -Police said two men were injured after they became trapped under a golf car at a coun­try club in suburban New York when their vehicle flipped over during a "weird little wind event." 
Police say strong winds were to blame for the mishap at the Beekman Country club in East Fishkill, about 66 miles north of Manhattan. Both men suffered head injuries and abrasions, but refused treatment. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 

::LLI 




0,,,,,,,
..... 

,,,,,,,
c:C 
(.) 

0 

..... HIGH 43 HIGH 40 HIGH 58 HIGH 73 
LOW 35 LOW 35 LOW 42 LOW 55 
IN BRIEF 
A lecture titled "Facing the Obama Administration: Economic Policy" will take place today at 7 p.m. in the first floor lounge of Coleman-Morse. The discus­sion will feature Michael Pries, Professor of Economics and Econometrics; Nelson Mark, Professor of Economics and Econometrics and Alexander Guisinger, Professor of Political Science. 
A lecture called "Ohama Invitation & Religious Freedom" will be presented by professor Rick Garnett in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Wednesday at 8 
p.m. Curious about your role as a student at our Lady's University in the upcoming months? About the role of a Catholic in America today? Join in discussions led by several of Notre Dame's dis­tinguished faculty. 
Professor Christine Stansell, a leading historian of American Women will give a lecture titled "Matrophobia and the Women's Movement: General Tensions in Feminism, 1968-2008" on Thursday at 4 p.m. at the Hesburg Center Auditorium. A Reception will precede the event at 3 p.m. 
Harmonia, Notre Dame's only all female a cappella group will host their Spring Concert on Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are $5 at the door. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 80 HIGH 
82 

LOW 57 LOW 
53 


Atlanta 64 I 45 Boston 55 I 42 Chicago 54 I 40 Denver 73 I 41 Houston 82 I 55 Los Angeles 73 I 57 Minneapolis 57 I 37 New York 57 I 48 Philadelphia 64 I 51 Phoenix 99 I 68 Seattle 65 I 46 St. Louis 68 I 42 Tampa 77 I 63 Washington 66 I 54 
Tuesday, April21, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
year students, but I feel that after the first year, students are not told about them as much." 
The resolution proposes that a committee composed of students, faculty and administrative staff address the issue of continued out­reach to diverse students at Notre Dame. 
The CLC acknowledged that committees already exist to address issues for diverse students. Githinji said the CLC task force met with a committee led by associate vice president for student affairs Ann Firth as it developed the resolution. Another committee, led by assistant vice president for student affairs David Moss, also addresses similar con­cerns. 
"What we are asking is that they put together their resources and compile them to address this issue," Keough Hall rector Fr. Pete McCormick, C.S.C., said about the committees. 
The committees are encouraged that the resolu­tion will facilitate communi­cation between them in order to more efficiently address the issue, Githinji said. 
"The goal is to encourage interactions between those groups. And also create a committee that focuses on retention," she said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Store Your Stun 
tlv1r lhlS1smm1r1 
1514) 203-0512 

64S2 llrkk Rood, South Bend louted •tClevel;md Rd& US 2() Bypass. 7 minut"' from campu' 
College hosts discussion on sex 
Students advised to get screened for STDs, develop relationships 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
Resident Assistants at Saint Mary's Holy Cross Hall hosted a dorm-wide event called "Sex & Candy" for all residents Monday. Guests dined on chocolate-cov­ered strawberries and M&M's as they listened to a panel discus­sion of sex. 
Health Center staffers Cathe DeCleene and Cindy Borton­Cavanaugh were present to help end myths women have about sex and sexually transmitted dis­eases. 
The event was spearheaded by sophomore resident assistant Mary Beth Gizinski. 
"We wanted to have this event because we feel like students are so uninformed and perpetuate the myths they hear," Gizinski said. 
DeCleene cited television shows as reasons many myths are created. 
"Shows like 'Gossip Girl' often have misinformation about sex." 
DeCleene said. "It is not just recent shows, 'Seinfeld' often presented many myths. If you just came to the counseling cen­ter or health center you would realize these myths are not true." 
Horton-Cavanaugh discussed the dangers of STDs. 
"Certain STDs you may have symptoms with," she said. However, "HPV very rarely has symptoms unless it is the high­risk kind that causes cancer." 
HPV vaccinations are now given to girls as early as age nine because if women receive the vaccine between ages 9-25 it is covered under insurance, Horton-Cavanaugh said. 
"There will be an STD screen­ing at Saint Mary's in the near future," Horton-Cavanaugh said. "It will only cost $10 whereas normal screenings cost over $300." 
STDs usually surface three years from the day they are con­tracted. STDs won't appear right away in 93 percent of people who don't smoke. 
The panel also discussed the emotional aspects of being sexu­ally active. 
"Being sexually active is a learning and growing process," Horton-Cavanaugh said. 
The panel said it is important to be empowered when it comes to sex. Women are not objects to fulfill someone else's pleasure. 
"A good age to have sex is when you are emotionally ready," Horton-Cavanaugh said. 
Ultimately it is important to form a relationship, Borton­Cavanaugh said. She said it is important to have face-to-face contact without the texting and instant messaging. Sometimes a friendship is needed before any kind of sexual relationship begins. 
At the end of the evening, before a hall-wide "Gossip Girl" watch, Holy Cross Hall Director Terrie Paul encouraged everyone to "check into the Health Center ifyou have any problems." 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Rankings 
continued from page 1 
Saracino said rankings by the Princeton Review tend to be quite subjective. 
"They send their people to col­leges and stand outside the dining halls and just quickly interview students," he said. "They just get a sample. Is it large enough a sam­ple to make those rankings?" 
While other colleges and univer­sities publicize high rankings, Saracino said Notre Dame does not use this marketing technique because rankings focus on num­bers rather than the University's unique qualities. 
"There isn't anything to say that Notre Dame is the best school for every student or every senior who is in high school," he said. "We have a variety of schools in the United States because we have a variety of students." 
Rankings also do not ultimately have a large impact on students' college decisions, Saracino said. 
"The rankings of a college play a role in the eyes of students, but it's a role along with many other fac­tors," he said. "It's more of an affirmation of what you've already been thinking of." 
Saracino said U.S. News and World Report, which is the most well-known ranking system for colleges and universities, releases rankings each August which are more objective than those by the Princeton Review. Notre Dame ranked 18th among national uni­versities in 2008 in the U.S. News and World Report rankings, according to Saracino. 
Even though U.S. News and World Report is most highly regarded and publicizes its rank­ing methods, Saracino said all rankings have some level of sub­jectivity. 
"In general my advice is you take all of those rankings with a little grain of salt," he said. "You say, they're interesting, but I still need to on my own dig a little deeper." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


Vision 
continued from page 1 
their own unique gifts. 
However, DeLorenzo said the program does not just benefit the high school stu­dents who attend. He said he is very dedicated to the devel­opment of the college mentors that he works with. 
"I like to inspire and to help specifically the mentors to find their best selves in what they are doing, to unlock their own gifts and use them," DeLorenzo said. 
The undergraduate mentors grow through the spirit of communal living that the pro­gram fosters, according to DeLorenzo, who has worked with Vision since 2002. 
"Year in and year out, see­ing the impact the mentors can have and do have is always inspiring," DeLorenzo said. "It just proves that we don't live our lives as Christians alone. Community is important. When you create small communities, God is present in those." 
DeLorenzo has found that 80 percent of college students who work with the program go on to do some form of min­istry work. 
DeLorenzo himself has an impact on the lives of the col­lege students who serve as ND Vision counselors. 
"He's obviously hilarious 
and incredible and I basically sit there amazed," Notre Dame freshman Erica Vesnaner, who will serve as a counselor with ND Vision this summer, said. "He's really creative and really knows what he's doing. He always seems to have some really good insight." 
In preparation for the sum­mer, Vesnaner attends class twice a week to study the Catholic Church's theology on spirituality, as well as to explore the questions that will be asked of the high school students in the summer. 
Mentors in faith like Vesnaner were chosen amongst applicants because of the "authenticity, openness, sense of faith, and willingness to grow" they showed in their interview and application essays, according to DeLorenzo. 
"I think the message when you boil it down is that God has drawn near to us specifi­cally in Jesus Christ and for each of us there is this invita­tion to this life-giving rela­tionship and a call to become who we're created to be," DeLorenzo said. "ND Vision is about helping high school and college students to know that and experience it. At the end of the day is there anything more· that Notre Dame is about?" 
Contact Nora Kenney at 
hkenney@nd.edu 

...--------------­
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April 21, 2009 
Waste 
continued from page 1 

puters happens to be the same temperature that the Wastewater Treatment Plant uses to heat waste, Latimer said. 
''I'm producing a lot of waste heat in my research computing ... And here is the Wastewater Treatment Plant creating a lot of heat to conduct their business," Latimer said. "So why not bring the two together? Why not let my waste heat be used for their purposes?" 
The University plans to move a mobile data center and put it on site at the South Bend Wastewater Plant, which is located past Saint Mary's College, just off the Indiana Toll Road. 
No computers have been installed on site yet, and will be built over the summer, Latimer said. He said they hope to be set up by the winter. 
"Obviously, the summer is not quite as bad as the winter as far as the heating," Latimer said. 
In addition to using excess energy from computers to heat the waste, the University can use the cold air in vats at the Wastewater Treatment Plant to cool computers, Latimer said. 
"Vats are a natural source of cold just because the outside is cold," Latimer said. 
''I'm trading my heat for their cold. I'm dumping my heat into their vat and I'm extracting their cold and taking it back to the data center to cool my equip­ment," he said. 
By trading cold and heat, both entities are saving money, he said. 
Although Latimer does not have concrete figures on how much this effort will save, there 

AnTostal 
continued from page 1 

booth where people can take pictures with friends." 
There are two new events that are being incorporated into this year's lineup as well. Monday night marked the first "Ring by Spring Dating Game." 
Also new this year is the ND Scavenger Hunt. Beginning noon on Wednesday, students can pick up the list of items to be found outside the elevator have been estimates, he said. 
"For 50 kilowatts, it would save the city $16,000 in natural gas. It would save the University $5,000 in cooling per year," he said. 
The University will begin by putting 80 kilowatts of comput­ing at the Wastewater Treatment Plant so those numbers will like­ly be higher, Latimer said. 
Latimer said the Wastewater Treatment Plant must get rid of the waste, and the city of South Bend spends $200,000 a year transporting the waste to farm fields. 
But if the waste is heated and broken down even more, then it can be sold as residential or commercial compost. Currently, it is not viable for the city to do this because it would cost more than simply transporting it. 
"But if they get their heat for free, then it might make more sense for them to do this," Latimer said. 
"We hope to be able to give them enough heat where they can break it down [enough to be sold as compost]," he said. "That would save $200,000 in trans­portation." 
The University was selected as a winner in the category entitled "Beyond the Data Center" for its innovation and leadership in introducing sustainability initia­tives to computing and data cen­ters, according to the press release. 
"The University of Notre Dame's successful initiatives serve as a great example to its industry peers of the realistic impact and feasibility of energy efficiency initiatives," Kenneth 
G. Brill, founder and executive director of the Uptime Institute, said in the press release. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

are Golfing with Marshmallows, Hula Hoop and Irish Quarterback, where stu­dents will have the ability to display their football-throwing skills. 
On Wednesday evening, there will be Pop Culture trivia in the Montgomery Auditorium with a prize for the winner. 
Thursday's main event is the annual Spring Carnival, which will take place from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. on South Quad. The Marketing Club will also host a Golf Scramble and Picnic at the Burke Memorial Golf 
IRAQ 


Soldiers transfered to nevv vvar 
Only a few weeks after deployment, troops shipped to Afghanistan 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Only in Iraq a few weeks, nearly 500 U.S. Army combat engineers who specialize in clearing roads of explosives learned they were being shipped off to southern Afghanistan, one of the clearest signs of America's shifting wartime priorities. 
The transfer, which moved into its final stages Monday, is the largest movement so far of personnel and equipment from Iraq as President Barack Obama puts the focus on the fight in the Taliban heartland. 
"We are probably going to be the beginning of the influx you are going to see to Afghanistan," Lt. Col. Kevin Landers, commander of the Fort Carson, Colo.-based 4th Engineer Battalion, said as crews packed crates and cleaned vehicles for the flight to Kandahar. 
It's now clear some of the troops and firepower will flow directly from Iraq, where the Pentagon plans to gradually draw down its more than 132,000 personnel before the withdrawal of all combat forces by September 2010. 
Obama has ordered 17,000 more U.S. soldiers and Marines to Afghanistan to bolster the 38,000 American troops already battling the resurgent Taliban. 
"We are going to take this footprint out of Iraq," said Landers, whose battalion received word of its reassign­ment last month just after tak­ing command of clearing roads in Baghdad of bombs and debris. 
Since then, his troops have conducted routine operations while preparing for their depar­ture. 
They won't be replaced ­another sign of America's evolv­ing military map. 
By the end of next year, the 
U.S. military presence could be down to about 30,000 to 50,000 personnel to train and advise Iraqi security forces. Plans call for all American forces to leave Iraq by the end of 2012. 
Military officials have publicly said they would not redirect large numbers of soldiers directly from Iraq to Afghanistan. Quietly, though, the military has been sending troops and equipment for months. 
In late March, the Fort Sill, Okla.-based 100th Brigade Support Battalion was moved from the giant U.S. base in Balad, 50 miles (80 kilometers) north -of Baghdad, to southern Afghanistan. 
Meanwhile, a stream of mili­tary transport planes lias been ferrying helicopters, vehicles, weapons and other equipment from Iraq to Afghanistan. 
But this week's airlift of the 4th Engineer Battalion "is the largest unit movement of per­sonnel and gear from Iraq to Afghanistan to date," said Lt. Col. Dave Dancer, operations chief for the 225th Engineer Brigade, which oversees the 4th Engineers. 
The battalion arrived in Iraq in late February. Four days after taking command in mid-March, it received new orders: pack up and compete its 12-month deployment in Afghanistan, said Landers, 42, of Atlanta. 
The battalion began sending troops and equipment -every­thing from giant tow trucks and bulldozers to desks and chairs -last week, said Command Sgt. Major Anthony Archer, 41, of Austin, Texas. The transition is expected to be completed within weeks. 
On Monday, soldiers were busy cleaning wrecker trucks, which are used to haul dam­aged or broken down military equipment, before loading them on airplanes to send later in the week. 
Sgt. Tony Hardy, 38, of Fountain, Colo., said his troops hadn't had time to think too much about the move. 
"Just keep them busy. Keep them working and it keeps their mind on what we have got to do and not what they may have to do," Hardy said. 
Landers and Archer broke the news to the soldiers in late March at Camp Victory, the main U.S. military base in Iraq. 
"We told them what we had in front of us ... and that we need­ed them to pull together as a team," Landers said. Families in Colorado were later told in a video conference. 
Landers said his soldiers will face challenges with the new assignment -from new terrain to a new enemy to new tactics. 
But he said the battalion drilled at the National Training Center in Fort Irwin, Calif., where troops are put through combat scenarios meant to replicate hazards faced in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
"There wasn't necessarily a signal, something that said we were going to go," Pfc. Angela Dubose, 25, of Duluth, Ga., said of the unit's new orders. "But it sort of made sense." 
She said she broke the news to her family over the phone. 
"When I left, I told my family to expect the unexpected," she said. 
Although violence is down sharply across Iraq, a gradual rise in attacks recently has brought worries the relative calm may not last. 
A suicide bomber wearing an Iraqi army uniform attacked a 
U.S. military delegation visiting the mayor of violence-wracked Baqouba on Monday, killing three Iraqi civilians and wound­ing at least eight American sol­diers as well as three Iraqi policemen and other people. 

5x10...$169 t DEP 10x10... $269 +DEP 

on the main floor of LaFortune. 
"After taking pictures at the designated locations, teams should upload their pictures to Facebook and friend AnTostal," MacCaughey said. "The team with the most points wins an iPod Touch." 
Another new feature of this year's AnTostal is the avail­ability of the events booklet online. SUB e-mailed the booklet to the student body in an effort to go green. 
In addition to the full week of activities planned, SUB will also sponsor different give­aways everyday. 
"We have tons of free give­aways for every day this week including Irish rubber duckies and Kanye West glasses," MacCaughey said. 
Tuesday's events include the Irish Gladiator Afternoon, which begins at 3 p.m. on South Quad. A number of childhood games, including kickball, croquet, bingo and freeze tag, are all scheduled. 
In addition to the Notre Dame Scavenger Hunt Wednesday, there will also be Survivor Man games on North Quad. Included in these games Course. 
Friday afternoon will feature dance lessons in the LaFortune Student Center. Slightly Stoopid will perform that evening at Legends at 10 p.m. 
AnTostal events conclude Saturday night with the Battle of the Bands competition at Legends. 
In addition to these events, there will also be a number of dorm events taking place throughout the week. 
"This year we are really hoping to have a good time," MacCaughey said. "We tried to include the dorm events as well as those planned by SUB." 
MacCaughey said she hopes that everyone on campus will participate in the activities throughout the week. 
"AnTostal is fun, but more importantly it is a Notre Dame tradition, which is what this University is all about," she said. "We really hope to see a lot of people out there, espe­cially the seniors because this will be their last one." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 


Arts &Letters Stud ts 

You ~,.e inuilecl h» o f-JCdltering to 1nor·k the releose ofthe JOURNAL OF' 
tiNDBRGRAl>UATE RESBAI~Cll 
•Wetfrtestfay, _)lpnf22tuf ~reat !!faiTof0 :rliauglines.ry 3:30-4:45 (i(tfreJiiments serf/ed 
Please come join the authors and editors of this year's JUR to discuss the JUR. particular articles, or vour own research. 
College of Arts and Letters Journal of Undergraduate Research is now available in the Great Hall, 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall, and Decio. 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April21, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran leader sparks UN walkout 
GENEVA -Dozens of Western diplomats walked out of a U.N. conference and a pair of rainbow-wigged protesters threw clown noses at Iran's president Monday when the hard-line leader called Israel the "most cruel and repres­sive racist regime." 
The United States decried the remarks by Malunoud Ahmadinejad as hateful -reinject­ing tension into a relationship that had been warming after President Barack Obama sought to engage Iran in talks on its nuclear program and other issues. 
Ahmadinejad -the first government official to take the floor at the weeklong event in Geneva -delivered a rambling, half-hour speech that was by turns conciliatory and inflammatory. 
Pakistani Taliban welcome Osama 
MINGORA, Pakistan -Pakistan was trying to end bloodshed when it let the idyllic Swat Valley fall under Islamic law last week. Instead, it has emboldened the Taliban and prompted an invitation-however improbable -for Osama bin Laden. 
The local spokesman for the Taliban, which control the valley, told The Associated Press he'd welcome militants bent on battling U.S. troops and their Arab allies if they want to set­tle there. 
"Osama can come here. Sure, like a brother they can stay anywhere they want," Muslim Khan said in a two-hour interview Friday, his first with a foreign journalist since Islamic law was imposed. "Yes, we will help them and pro­tect them." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Craigslist killer now in custody 
BOSTON -A man was held in custody Monday in connection with the death last week in a luxury hotel of a woman who advertised massage services on Craigslist, Boston police said. 
But Boston police spokeswoman Elaine Driscoll did not immediately provide any other information about the man Monday. 
Suffolk District Attorney spokesman Jake Wark said he did not know of any charges filed in the case. 
Julissa Brisman, 29, was found dead Tuesday at the Boston Marriott Copley Place. The New York City woman adver­tised massage services on Craigslist and had a massage table set up in the room where she was shot, police said. 

Whistleblower faked report 
SAVANNAH, Ga. -Attorneys for one of the nation's largest sugar producers accused a whistleblower Monday of faking a report that he says he sent to company executives warning them of the dust hazard at a Georgia refinery days before a blast there killed 14 workers. 
Lawyers defending Imperial Sugar in more than 30 lawsuits filed a motion in Chatham County State Court asking a judge to throw out the report and all testimony by Graham H. Graham because he "knowingly provided false testimony." Graham was vice president of operations at the Texas com­pany at the time of the explosion. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man sentenced for killing girlfriend 
GARY, Ind. -A Gary man has been sen­tenced to 45 years in prison for stabbing his girlfriend to death more than six years ago. 
Thirty-two-year-old Angelo Dove was sen­tenced Monday in Lake Criminal Court. Lake County Prosecutor Bernard A. Carter says Dove pleaded guilty but mentally ill to a charge of voluntary manslaughter in the death of 29-year-old Kelly Cleveland, who was stabbed in her neck, chest, back, wrists, hands and fingers following an argument at their home in January 2003. Her body was found five days later by rela­tives. 
IRAN 


Uncertainfuture for jailed U.S. journalist 
Iran orders investigation into the case of a reporter accused of spying for the U.S. 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -Iran's judici­ary ordered a full investi­gation Monday into the case of an American jour­nalist imprisoned for allegedly spying for the 
U.S. and allowed the woman's parents to visit her for the first time since she was sentenced to eight years in prison. 
The developments in the case of Roxana Saberi appear to be the latest signs that some senior Iranian officials want to ensure tensions over the case do not derail moves toward a dialogue with the Obama administration to break a 30-year diplomatic deadlock between the two countries. 
In Washington, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton renewed calls for Iran to release Saberi said she hoped for positive action from the judiciary chiefs investigation order. 

"We believe she should be freed immediately, that the charges against her are baseless and that she has been subjected to a process that has been non-trans­parent, unpredictable (and) arbitrary," Clinton told tor urging him to ensure the mixed messages January and initially reporters. Saberi be allowed a full emerging from Iran may be accused of working without 
Saberi, who was born in defense during her appeal. an indication of political press credentials. But ear­the U.S. and grew up in It was a rare request from divisions in the leadership, lier this month, a judge lev­Fargo, North Dakota, was an Iranian president and with hard-liners in the eled a more serious allega­convicted of espionage last came at a time when judiciary trying to hamper tion that she was passing week after a one-day trial President Barack Obama government moves toward classified information to behind closed doors. Her has been seeking engage­closer relations with the U.S. intelligence services. Iranian-born father, Reza, ment with Iran's leaders. U.S. by pressing the Saberi Saberi's father said he told The Associated Press However, Iran's Foreign case. hoped officials will heed that he and his wife visited Ministry took a swipe Saberi had been living in Ahmadinejad's letter. their daughter in Evin Monday at President Iran for six years and "Also, they should be prison north of Tehran. Barack Obama, saying worked as a freelance compassionate in their 
"She seems to be OK," he "those who studied law" reporter for news organi­judgment and not be very said. "She was looking for­should not comment on the zations including National harsh," he told the AP. ward for the appeal case without seeing the Public Radio and the Saberi's parents, who live because she knows that context. It was a clear ref­British Broadcasting Corp. in Fargo, traveled to Iran this kind of verdict was too erence to Obama, who has Because Saberi's father to seek her release. heavy for her." a law degree from Harvard was born in Iran, she "As far as she is healthy 
The judiciary chief's University and taught con­received Iranian citizen­and she is taking good care order came a day after stitutional law at the ship. of herself," her mother, President Mahmoud University of Chicago Iran has released few Akiko Saberi said. She Ahmadinejad sent a letter before becoming president. details about the charges. denied her daughter was a to Tehran's chief prosecu-Some analysts have said Saberi was arrested in spy. 

21 horses die mysteriously at Polo Open 
on by some sort of toxic reaction in pening when the frenzy of workers 
Associated Press 

their bodies. Possibly tainted feed, and trucks hovered around the horse 
vitamins or supplements. Maybe a trailers. Soon blue tarps were hung 
WELLINGTON, Fla. -Ladies in combination of the three. and trailers were shuflled into place to their spring dresses and men in casual While polo club officials and several obscure their view. linen suits sipped champagne and nib­independent veterinarians insisted the The match was canceled, replaced bled hors d'oeuvres as they waited for deaths appeared to be accidental, it by an exhibition game, to keep the the U.S. Open polo match. What they remained a mystery that puzzled and crowd busy. Rumors swirled and the ended up with was a field of death. saddened those close to a sport that death toll climbed. 
Magnificent polo ponies, each val­has long been a passion of Palm Some horses died on scene. Others ued at up to $200,000, stumbled from Beach County's ultra-rich. were shuttled to clinics for treatment, their trailers and crumpled one by one "The players, the owners of the but there was nothing that could be onto the green grass. Vets ran out and horses were in tears. Bystanders and done. Their fate was sealed. poured water over the feverish, volunteers were in tears. This was a All the dead horses were from the splayed-out animals. But it was no very tragic thing," said Tony Coppola, Venezuelan-owned team Lechuza use. One dead horse. Then another. 62, an announcer for the International Caracas, a favorite to win the title at Then more. And within a day, 21 hors­Polo Club Palm Beach in this palm what's described as the World Series es were dead. tree-lined town some 15 miles west of of this sport. The team included about 
State veterinarians were still per­the millionaire enclave of Palm Beach. 40 thoroughbreds in all, maybe more. forming necropsies but suspect the Spectators at the Sunday match had The team has not made any public horses died from heart failure brought difficulty making out what was hap-comments since the deaths. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April21, 2009 
Process of identifying bodies begins in Md. 
Associated Press 
TOWSON, Md. -Investigators began the task Monday evening of identifying four bodies found inside a hotel guest room earlier in the day in suburban Baltimore, as well as figuring out how the people died. 
The bodies were discovered at the Sheraton Baltimore North Hotel in Towson, just north of Baltimore and just inside the Baltimore Beltway, said Baltimore County Police department spokesman Bill Toohey. Police received a call at 2:56 p.m. Monday reporting that four people were dead in a room. 
The occupants of the room did­n't check out when they were expected to Monday afternoon, Toohey said. That's when hotel staff unlocked the door and found the bodies. Cpl. Michael Hill, another police spokesman, said it was not known whether all four people were hotel guests. 
"I can't release the nature of the scene or, right now, gender, age or race of any of the victims," he said. "We have not confirmed any identities whatsoever." 
Hill also said there was no threat of harm to anyone else in the area. 
Hill said it would take at least several hours for crime scene technicians and a medical exam­iner to collect evidence. 
"We can't say how this hap­pened or exactly when it hap­pened so to release anything would be very, very premature at this point," he said. "We don't know even what kind of investiga­tion we're dealing with at this point." 
Several hotel employees declined to comment. 
K.C. Kavanagh, spokeswoman for Sheraton Hotels and Resorts, said Sheraton Baltimore North is a franchise property and the owner of the hotel is GF Hotels. 
"This is just a terrible tragedy and our team is terribly saddened by this event," Kavanagh said. "We're doing all we can to assist the police and it's a matter that's in their hands at this time." 
A call to GF Management Co. in Philadelphia was not immediately returned. 
Several marked and unmarked police cars and two forensic serv­ices vans were parked outside the hotel entrance. 
Nick Gelston, 30, an electrician from Bel Air, said he stayed at the hotel Saturday night to attend a friend's wedding. He was back there Monday afternoon because his car had broken down and he'd had to leave it at the hotel. 
"I hope it was nobody who was with us," Gelston said, adding that he wasn't aware that any of the wedding guests had stayed on the 10th floor. 


Mississippi juvenile center cited 
Lawsuit filed claims occupants physically, emotionally abused 
Associated Press 

JACKSON -A south Mississippi juvenile deten­tion center subjeets young people to physical and nmotional abuse, forcing them to live in squalid cells infested with insects and the stench of human excre­ment, a federal lawsuit alleged Monday. 
An attorney for the pri­vate company that runs the Harrison County Juvenile Detention Center said he had not seen the lawsuit 
and  denied  there  are  
major  problems  at  the  
facility.  

The lawsuit was filed in 
U.S. District Court in Gulfport on behalf of a 17­year-old boy referred to only by the initials "D.W." and seeks class protection of others in the facility. It alleges, among other things, that D.W. "endured a brutal physical assault from adult staff members" and was denied appropri­ate mental health care after he tried to commit suicide. 
"The abusive conditions at the Juvenile Detention Center include punitive shackling, staff-on-youth assaults, 23-hour a day lock-down in filthy jail cells, unsanitary conditions 
resulting in widespread contraction of scabies and staph infections, danger­ous overcrowding that forces many youth to sleep on the concrete floor, and inadequate mental health care," the lawsuit alleges. 
II arrison County was named as the defendant in the lawsuit, which says the county pays Mississippi Security Police Inc., a pri­vate corn pany based in Pascagoula, $1.6 million a year to house juveniles. !Iarrison County's adminis­trator, Pam Ulrich, said the county had not seen the lawsuit and could not com­ment on it. Mississippi Security Police is not a defendant in the lawsuit. 
Tim Holleman, a Gulfport attorney who represents the company, denied the accusations. 
"I've had elients go in there and not one of them has ever said anything about abuse or anything of that nature," Holleman said. 
As for staph infection, Holleman said that's a problem even in sterile environments like hospi­tals. And he denied the facility is routinely over­crowded, though he acknowledged it some­times exceeds its designed 
capacity of 48 because of the need to hold youth accused of serious crimes. 
Members of the Mississippi Youth Justice Project, a project of the Southern Poverty Law Center, filed thP lawsuit. 
Sheila Bedi, the SPLC's regional juvenile justiee attorney, said the popula­tion of the detnntion eenter is sometimes as high as 60 and that most of the youth there are involved in minor crimes like disorderly con­duct. 
She said it's problematic for a for-profit company to run a juvenile correction­center: "When there's a market incentive to imprison children, the entire community suffers." 
Bedi said the group hopes to work with Harrison County to improve conditions at the facility. 
The lawsuit claims D.W. "spent 23 hours a day locked in a squalid vermin­infested jail cell" and was forced to sleep on the floor "with only a thin mat that smells of urine." 
The lawsuit claims that more than 30 other youth at the center echoed the descriptions of filthy, crowded conditions and violent staff. 

Tuesday, April 21, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
~289.60

Jones 7,841.73 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 461 55 3,327 3,986,407,410 
AMEX 


NASDAQ 
1,60fS.2l ·-· \~:~6 NYSE -+4$llliL,,,. :":.;2;~5;2~(}~;4:2 >~+laJI3··· S&P 500 832.39 -37.21 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,92111111:!• (r'i'lllt~H'···· 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FTSE 100 (London) 3,990.86 101.94 

CITIGROUP INC (C)  -19.45  ·0.71  2.94  
BK OF AMERICA (SAC)  ·24.34  ·2.58  8.02  
SUN MICROSYSTE.MS (JAVA)  +36.77  +2.46  9.15  
FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS)  -30.22  -2.84  6.56  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  ·2.97  -0.090  2.84  
13-WEEK BILL  -7.69  -0.010  0.12  
30-YEAR BOND  -2.59  ·0.098  3.69  
5-YEAR NOTE  -4.42  -0.083  1.80  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -4.45  45.88  
GOLD {$/Troy oz.)  +19.60  887.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  ·2.68  82.05  
Exchange Rates  

YEN 98.0800 EURO 1.2934 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2374 BRITISH POUND 1.4550 
IN BRIEF 
Bank sees stocks fall despite profit 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Bank of America Corp. warned of worsening loan default problems Monday even as it posted a first-quarter profit of $2.81 billion. Investors concerned about the banking industry's health sent financial stocks and the overall market sharply lower. 
Although Bank of America said higher rev­enue from the purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co. helped offset a surge in credit costs, it took a $13.4 billion provision for credit losses during the first three months of the year. The amount of its problem loans more than tripled to $25.7 billion and CEO Ken Lewis said he couldn't pre­dict when the bank's credit morass would end. 
The bank's stock fell $2.58, or 24.3 percent, to $8.02 as the overall stock market plunged. Last week Wall Street was happy with better­than-expected results from JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc., but investors have been rethinking that initial upbeat response. Banking companies generally benefited during the quarter from unusually strong bond trading, a trend not expected to continue, while recession-driven loan problems persist and are expected to worsen this year. 
Drugmaker profits rise, stocks fall 
INDIANAPOLIS -Drugmaker Eli Lilly and Co. saw its first-quarter profit soar on strong sales but then watched its stock price dip Monday on a rough day for the broader mar­ket. 
The quarterly performance -which included a 23 percent profit increase -impressed ana­lysts, but they noted that longer-term questions remain unanswered for Lilly. 
Despite the strong start to 2009, Lilly only reaffirmed -and did not raise -its guidance for full-year earnings between $4 and $4.25 per share. Analysts forecast $4.14 per share. 
"There's not going to be follow-through for the rest of the year, so I think that's a little dis­appointing from ... a near-term perspective," Edward Jones analyst Linda Bannister said. 
Miller Tabak and Co. analyst Les Funtleyder said the company's core business is doing well, but he would like to see new product approvals or learn more about drugs in Lilly's develop­ment pipeline before he recommends investors "jump in with both feet" to buy the stock. 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

Pulitzer wins lift journalists' spirits 
Two newspapers hard-hit by the recession earn a chance to celebrate their successes 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Two newspapers hit hard by a historic downturn won Pulitzer Prizes on Monday for exposing sex scandals that brought down a gov­ernor and a big-city mayor, in what was hailed as a victory for old-fash­ioned watchdog journal­ism at a time when the industry's very survival is in question. 
The New York Times received five Pulitzers in all, including one for being the first to report that then-Gov. Eliot Spitzer was a client of a high-priced call girl ring -a discovery that led to his resignation. The Detroit Free Press won for obtaining a cache of steamy text messages that destroyed then-Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick's politi­cal career. 
Three Pulitzers were awarded for coverage of Barack Obama's historic election. But in a surpris­ing turn, not one prize was handed out for the other big story of 2008 ­the financial meltdown. Some suggested it could be a criticism of the press for not sounding enough of a warning before the cri­sis. 

"If I had to guess, I feel like there is going to be some reluctance to give reporter in Arizona, was news organizations to paper six days a week. prizes for after-the-fact laid off a few months ago. compete for Pulitzers this The Las Vegas Sun won reporting no matter how "These are tough times year for the first time, the Pulitzer for public good it is, period," said for America's newspapers, none of the 65 entries won service for exposing a high Dean Starkman, managing but amid the gloomy talk, any prizes. However, the death rate among con­editor of Columbia the newspaper winners Pulitzer Board said online struction workers on the Journalism Review's The and the finalists are heart­content played a role in Las Vegas Strip. Audit, which focuses on ening examples of the several of the winning Alexandra Berzon the business press. high-quality journalism entries. described how the rush to 
The awards were that can be found in all In a measure of how bad build quickly and at highly announced after one of parts of the United things have gotten, the congested work sites led the most depressing years States," said Sig Gissler, Detroit paper less than a to deadly shortcuts. Her ever for the newspaper administrator of the month ago cut back home work led to changes in industry, with layoffs, prizes. "It's quite notable delivery to three days a workplace conditions. bankruptcies and closings that the watchdog function week. Similarly, the Metro "The fact that this series brought on by the reces­of journalism is under­staff that broke the Spitzer stopped people from dying sion and an exodus of scored in this year's story at The New York on Las Vegas Strip con­readers and advertisers to awards. The watchdog Times has since been cut struction projects is the the Internet. Many of still barks, and the watch­back, and Metro was elim­most important part of Monday's winners were dog still bites." inated as a standalone what we did," said among the hardest hit; in Despite a rule change section and folded into the Managing Editor Michael fact, one of the winners, a that allowed online-only main news part of the J. Kelley. 

GMworkerslaidoffasgov't deadline looms 
President Barack Obama says a lean and agile company," GM
Associated Press 

Chrysler won't get any more help. North America President Troy 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. If GM can swap much of its debt Clarke said Monday in an e-mail to started firing 1,600 white-collar for stock and get concessions from employees obtained by The workers Monday, continuing its the UAW and Canadian Auto Associated Press. effort to slash costs and qualify for Workers by June 1, the government Meanwhile, GM said in a govern­more government loans on the same says it will provide more loans to ment filing that it spent $2.8 million day it revealed it spent $2.8 million keep the company going. in the first quarter lobbying the U.S. in the first three months of this year Bankruptcy financing also is possi­government on a range of issues, to lobby federal lawmakers. ble if the company determines including the economic stimulus 
Meanwhile, Fiat's CEO left Italy to Chapter 11 is its best bet to achieve package, and environmental, con­resume critical talks on an alliance the cuts it needs. sumer safety and health issues. with Chrysler LLC, as deadlines GM's layoffs this week bring the "We're a part of arguably one of draw closer for GM and Chrysler to automaker close to its goal the most regulated industries and finish their restructuring plans. announced in February to cut 3,400 we provide a voice in complex policy 
Both automakers are living on a U.S. salaried positions, spokesman discussions," GM spokesman Greg combined $17.4 billion in govern­Tom Wilkinson said. GM has about Martin said. ment loans and have said they'll 29,000 salaried workers in the U.S. GM's lobbying costs fell 15 percent need more money to survive. "In these unprecedented times, from the $3.3 million it spent in the Chrysler must cut its debt and its GM is reinventing every aspect of fourth quarter of 2008, but they labor costs and forge an alliance our business, including our organi­rose from the $2.7 million GM spent with Fiat Group SpA by April 30, or zational size and structure, to create in the third quarter. 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April21, 2009 

The Schmitt Lecture Series 
SCIENCE AND THE HUMAN ~000: 
HOW TO THINK PHILOSOPHICALLY OF VALUES IN SCIENCE 
DON HOWA~D P~o FESSo ~ oF PH ILoSoPHY VNfVE~SITY OF NOT~E DAME 
UESDAY APRJL 21ST AT 4PM MCKENNA HALLAUDITO~IUM 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture For more information, visit http://ethicscenter.nd.edu 
Gun control rally held in Colo. 
'Lie down' occurs on 10th anniversary of Columbine shootings 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Dozens of people participated in a "lie-down" at Colorado's state Capitol Monday to demand stricter gun control and mark the lOth anniversary of the Columbine High School shootings. 

Thirteen people representing those killed at Columbine lay like spokes of a wheel at the west steps of the Capitol. They had wrapped blue and white ribbons around their necks, the official colors of the suburban Denver school. 
Others kneeled nearby as the names of the 23 injured in the April 20, 1999, attack also were read. 
Among them was Mallory Sanders, granddaughter of slain teacher Dave Sanders, and Steve Wewer, godfather of slain student Daniel Mauser. 
Daniel's father, Tom Mauser, said he realized some might question his appearance at a ceremony with a political, though not partisan, overtone on the solemn occasion. But he said he doesn't think the coun­try has done enough to stop gun violence since Columbine. 
"I would just say, 'Why wouldn't we do this today?"' Mauser said. " ... We have become desensitized. We shake our heads and say, 'What a shame,' but we don't do very much about it." 
Mauser wore the Vans shoes his son was wearing the day he was killed, shoes that were held in evidence until five years ago. 
Above the rally, the U.S. and Colorado state flags flew at half-staff at the Capitol, as ordered by Gov. Bill Ritter. A giant blue ribbon memorializ­ing Columbine hung from the outside of the Capitol's gold dome. 
Monday's event was spon­sored by Colorado Ceasefire, a gun control group. 
"I don't necessarily think we need to get rid of guns entire­ly," said Richard Castaldo, who was partially paralyzed at Columbine. But he insisted background checks are needed at gun shows. "We need to know who they are." 
The crowd at the rally includ­ed families commemorating the 2007 VIrginia Tech shootings, as well as lily llabtu, who was wounded at the university. 
Columbine students Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, armed with guns and pipe bombs, killed 12 students and a teacher. Harris and Klebold later killed themselves. 
Harris and Klebold obtained three of the four weapons they used in the massacre from an 18-year-old friend at a gun show, where she wasn't sub­jected to a background eheck. The friend later insisted she believed the guns would be used for hunting or eolleeting. 
After Columbine, Colorado's Legislature failed to pass a measure that would have closed the so-ealled gun show loophole. Colorado voters then passed a ballot initiative to do so. People who buy guns at a gun show must now undergo eriminal baekground checks by a licensed gun dealer, just as they would ifthey bought a gun from a federally lieensed gun store. 

Dementia patient found dead inwoods 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA -After hearing news reports about a 75-year-old woman with memory problems who disappeared into the remote Maine woods, Claire Young had a talk with her husband, William, who has dementia. 
Snowmobilers had rescued the missing woman. But Claire Young knew it could have ended differ­ently if her 77 -year-old husband had been the one missing. She and her husband made a note to keep a eloser tabs on his aetivity. 
Strangely, police say, William Young later got a compass out of storage and laid it on his bedroom dresser as he prepared to drive up to the north woods in search of Beverly Rutherford, apparently believing she was still lost. 
The compass still lay there three days later, when his frozen body was found 150 miles north of his home in Auburn. 
"Mrs. Young said that during the conversation with her husband she expressed some concern that he did not end up in a similar situ­ation," said Lt. Pat Dorian of the Maine Warden Service. 
"For some reason, Mr. Young felt compelled to head to the Kokadjo area and find her," Dorian said. "I don't have any doubt in my mind that this is what happened." 
People with dementia can often make sense one moment, then behave irrationally the next, said Beth Kallmyer, a spokeswoman for the Alzheimer's Association in Chicago. There's no way to know what triggered Young's decision to drive about 150 miles from his home to look for Beverly Rutherford. 
"That's the frustrating thing for families -wandering," Kallmyer said. 
At least a dozen similar searches have been conducted in the past 20 years in the area where both Young and Beverly Rutherford dis­appeared, Dorian said. 
For some reason, people with mental and physical illnesses appear drawn to the rugged, heavily forested region, Dorian said. But Young's case is appar­ently the first in which someone felt compelled to search for some­one with whom they might have shared a medical condition, he said. 
Beverly Rutherford had driven to the area from her home in South Portland and was wearing only one boot when she was found on a snowy, icy trail three days before Young disappeared. She suffered no serious injuries. 
Like Rutherford, Young had no family or personal ties to the area, Dorian said. He might have been motivated by a desire to help oth­ers in need, Dorian said. 
A retired assistant principal at Lisbon High School in southern Maine, Young volunteered with area organizations even after he stopped working, his wife told the Lewiston Sun Journal. 
Tuesday, April 21, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

Coverage you can count on 
New year-different economic times. Take a look at the Notre Dame sponsored student health insurance plan and compare it to your current coverage. Look at premiumsf deductibles, and benefits/time covered. For more information, attend the following sessions presented by Aetna Representatives. 
Mon-Tues-Wed 12:15-1:00 Law Building Room 1130 Monday 8-1 OPM Beichner Community Center at University Village Tuesday 6-SPM Jordan Auditorium in Mendoza Wednesday 5-7PM Saint Liam Hall 3rd Floor Conference Room (Health Center) 
Aetna Student Health is a national leader in creating alternatives in student health insurance. 




1\Aetnrr 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April 21, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER i· Bill Brink John Donovan 
' AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
I I NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
•
I SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
•
' SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporu@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharn01 @sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer, 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information, 
Questions IY!garding Observer policies should be diiY!cted to Editor-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The O~cr {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccp' during cum and vaau:ian pcrlocb. A subscription to~ Observrr is $!20 for one: ac.ad.cmk year. $65 for ane sanc::r;rcr. 
Tht: Obsetvtt is puhlisht:d ar: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addra,s cotr«tions oo: Notrt: Dame, lN 4.6556-0779 The Observer Periodical posm~ paid a( Notre Dame P.O.Ilox779 
and additional mailing offic:~ 0.24 South Dining HaU 
Noue Dam<:. IN 46556-0779 
'fhc. Observer is a member of the J\s$ocUt<:d Press. All reproduction righu ate 
'""'""'!. 

Torture is in the eye of the beholder 
The Justice Department recently released four memos detailing the enhanced interrogation techniques used by the CIA on senior AI Qaeda operatives under the Bush administration. 
The tactics employed have been described as "brutal," "harsh," "shocking," "dis­turbing," "barbar­ic" and just about every other syn­onym in the book. 
Despite President Obama's high-minded claim of acting in the name of truth and transparency, it should be abun­dantly clear to any non-Obamaniac that the decision to release these memos was politkally-moti­vated. Facing a flurry of criticism on everything from the economy to his Worldwide Apology Tour, Obama hoped to shift attention to everyone's favorite tar­get: George W. Bush. 
And while liberals howl in sanctimo­nious outrage and our enemies overseas gleefully add new weapons to their propa­ganda arsenals, just what has the release of these memos really accomplished? 
According to Obama, "exceptional cir­cumstances" called for the release of the memos. 
Just what sort of "exceptional circum­stances" are you referring to, Mr. President? 
His response: "Withholding these memos would only serve to deny facts that have been in the public domain for some time. This could contribute to an inaccurate accounting of the past, and fuel erroneous and inflammatory assump­tions about actions taken by the United States." 
Well I sure am glad we now have more evidence to prove what we already knew. Needlessly reopening old wounds when most Americans would just like to move on and tackle more pressing issues, like the abysmal state of the economy, is obvi­ously warranted despite the potential risks entailed, including jeopardizing our national security, a charge leveled by five former directors of the CIA. 


Incidentally, a number of other high­ranking officials have severely questioned Obama's decision. 
"I cannot think of a rational public poli­cy consideration for releasing these," says Dan Bartlett, former counsel to the White House. 
"The release of these opinions was unnecessary as a legal matter, and is unsound as a matter of policy," writes for­mer Attorney General Miehael Mukasey. "Its ell"nct will be to invito the kind of insti­tutional timidity and fear of recrimination that weakened intelligence gathering in the past, and that we came sorely to re~-,rret on Sept 11, 2001." 
Indeed, a recent Wall Street Journal editorial points out that the administra­tion has efl'ectively bound its own hands, and the hands of all future administra­tions, in using these coerdve measures against high-level, captured terrorists (I apologize, I meant instigators of "man­caused disasters") to gather intelligence enabling our troops to eiTcctively execute the "Overseas contingency operation" (formerly known as the War on Terror) and save innocent lives. Never mind the faet that gathering accurate and timely intdligence is crucial to preventing terror­ist attacks, as we learned the hard way on September 11, 
Those who claim that these techniques are already prohibited would do well to recall that Obama merely suspended their use until further investigation could be performed by a task force, as the editorial states. Now that they have been released, there would be little reason to authorize methods that are known to the enemy. 
One possible silver lining in this debacle is that the administration's desire to incite further outrage could potentially backfire, as the American people now have a chance to judge for themselves whether these the tactics used constitute the label of "torture." 
So what methods did the Office of Legal Counsel authorize in the memos? 
Well for starters, there is waterboard­ing, which as most of us know involves binding a prisoner to an indined board, wrapping his face in cellophane, and pouring water over him in order to simu­late drowning. No surprises there. 
There is also forced nudity. 
Embarrassing and awkward, perhaps, but it doesn't amount to torture. 
Shoving prisoners into a wall. My friends and I used to do that to one anoth­er all the time while walking down the hallways in high schooL 
Slapping prisoners in the face and stom­ach. Putting prisoners in stress positions and confiDing them in boxes. Dousing them with cold water. Again, hardly the equivalent of torture . 
Prolonged sleep deprivation. Using this logic, our professors should face criminal charges for forcing students to pull multi­ple all-nighters during finals week study­ing for tests and writing papers. 
Placing a prisoner inside a box contain­ing a caterpillar to exploit his fear of insects. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a harmless caterpillar was used to "tortun~" a prisoner. What kind of sadistic monster would employ such cruel, grisly measures to save the lives of innocent Americans? 
What's more, the interrogations were "continuously monitored" and "the inter­rogation team will stop the use of particu­lar techniques or the interrogation alto­gether if the detainee's medical or psycho­logical conditions indicates that the detainee might sull'er significant physical or mental harm." The CIA has also tested these methods on service members in order to ensure that no long-term physi­cal or psychological pain would result 
To be sure, enduring such treatment would be far from pleasant However, classifying the tactics as "torture" is a substantial exaggeration. We must remember that in the wake of September 11, President Bush was under extreme pressure to ensure that Americans were no longer vulnerable to similar, or even worse, attacks. Thank goodness we had a man in the White House who had the courage to put national security concerns ahead of political ones. 
Too bad the same cannot be said of its current occupant. 
Christie Pesavento is currently classified as a "right wing extremist" according to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports John Tierney Alex Barker Liz O'Donnell Eric Prister Do you like "The Shirt" this year?
Tess Civantos Molly Sammon 

"Battle not with monsters, lest ye 
Graphics Scene 

Yes become a monster, and ifyou gaze 
Madeline Nies Caitlin Ferraro 

into the abyss, the abyss gazes also 
No

Viewpoint into you." 
UndecidedLauren 
Friedrich Nietzsche
Brauweiler 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at German philosopher www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April21, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Just a precaution 

I write in response to Brendan Durr's recent Letter to the Editor ("Cover up the crosses," April 20) regarding the White House decision to cover up a cross and the letters "IHS" at Georgetown during a speech given by President Obama. While it is lam­entable that images sacred to Christian faith were covered up, it is even more lamentable that our current society requires these actions on the part of our president. 
We are lucky enough to live in a nation founded on principles of religious freedom and separation of church and state. However, we are unlucky to live in a nation where any association with religion on the part of a public official is a source of outcry. Any image with a public official with reli­gious symbols could be construed as favoritism, which would violate any impar­tiality necessary to maintain a separation of church and state and to protect religious freedom. 
Unfortunately for President Obama, this question of religious favoritism has plagued him since before he was our nation's leader. His middle name, Hussein, has generated a tidal wave of attacks alleging his partiality to a Muslim faith he does not adhere to. 
Given these previous attacks, it is under­standable that President Obama would be cautious in how he appears with any reli­gious symbols. While it would be amazing if our nation's leaders could stand next to a cross, the Star of David or the Star and Crescent without public uproar, history has shown that they cannot without seeming to favor one faith over another. Until our nation can mature to the point where simple images of the president by religious symbols do not yield uproar over violations of reli­gious freedom or separation of church and state, we will continue to see these precau­tionary tactics. 
We as a nation have a duty to show that we will not be fooled by visual associations so that Georgetown or any other religiously affiliated institution may not have to cover religious symbols to protect our president from public slander over his stance on reli­gious freedom and separation of church and state. 
Meghan Thornton junior Lyons Hall April20 

Pick speakers instead 

An old SNL skit involved a talk show called, "What Were You Thinking?" where a straight-faced host would grill politicians and celebrities over bone­headed decisions. Considering how well Fr. Jenkins has handled the selection of Commencement speaker, he should pray SNL doesn't bring it back. 
I might be reaching here, but I'm guessing most graduates were hoping to hear something a bit more profound than "don't just hope for change, change hope," (or whatever the latest arrange­ment of those words might be). Perhaps they anticipated hearing from a renowned alumnus, from a leading sci­entist, entrepreneur, doctor, engineer, industrialist, writer, scholar or philoso­pher. But no. Instead they'll hear a stump speech from a politician. 
Sure, Obama might regale the crowd with riveting stories about how he helped crooked developers expand Chicago's blight of public housing, or sold out students by backing six-figure salaries for incompetent public school administrators. He'll probably have the Catholics rolling in the aisles when he tells them how he fought to kill the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act, is using their tax dollars to fund overseas abortions or demanded Georgetown University cover the monogram for the name of Jesus Christ as a condition of his speaking there. But I doubt it. It's as if Fr. Jenkins began the selection process by asking, "How can I alienate our graduates, enrage the Catholic com­munity and turn what's supposed to be a dignified ceremony into a political cir­cus?" 
Fr. Jenkins, I hate to ask, but ... what were you thinking? Even Obama's cam­pus supporters must realize that any speaker who repulses half the student body probably shouldn't be giving the Commencement address. The purpose of Commencement is to recognize and honor student achievement, not provide a platform to polarizing speakers. 
Fr. Jenkins needs a wake-up call. I suggest that during Commencement, at about one minute into President Obama's speech, students and their fam­ilies should quietly rise and walk out. No heckling or disruption. Just a calm, deliberate exit. Maybe this will help spare future graduates the indignity of having their commencement ceremonies politicized by absent-minded university presidents. 
Edward Cox alumus class of 1995 April20 


Stay sensible 
To Brendan Durr ("Cover Up the Crosses," April 20): 
I know that those of you who oppose President Obama's appearance at Commencement are looking for any fuel you can add to your fire. You have missed a key distinction between that appearance and recent appearance at Georgetown. Yes, signs of Georgetown's identity, not just as a Catholic school but as a school period, were covered during the address, which was a speech about the United States economy. The move was made in order to avoid the appearance that the President was giving economic policy advice from Georgetown's "pulpit." At Notre Dame's Commencement, which is all about celebrating Notre Dame and its graduates, you can be certain that no such "cover-up" demands will issue from the White House. Let's try to keep the debate sensible. Obviously, you can see a distinction between a political speech and a commencement address, can't you? 
Sean Lyttle 
grad student 
offcampus 
April20 


Enough already 
Brendan Cordial wrote in a letter to the Editor in today's Observer, "Obama voted -while an Illinois senator -multiple times against leg­islation that would protect infants who survived a failed abortion attempt." ("Pro-life terrorism?" April 16) This is an absurd distortion. FactCheck.org presents an explanation of the endless loops of technical­ities involved in these bills , but the bottom line is this: it is, and has always been, the law that any viable fetus born as a result of a failed abortion must be treated as an individual deserving of medical care. Obama's votes were attempts to prevent the bills' writers from attacking Roe v. Wade, not attempts to "keep infanticide legal," as though it were ever legal in the first place. Could we please make an effort at exerting just a little bit of intellectual honesty when debating these matters? 
Jarett DeAngelis alumus class of2008 April20 


Oppression? 
I thought about writing to respond to Brandon Durr's supreme faux out­rage about Obama's visit to Georgetown ("Cover the crosses," April 20). I probably could have made a "Durrr" joke somewhere. Instead, I'm going to quote the response NBC Washington got when they asked the University about the covering of the cross. "Julie Bataille from the University's press office e-mailed me that the White House had asked that all university sig­nage and symbols behind the stage in Gaston Hall be covered. The White House wanted a simple backdrop of flags and pipe and drape for the speech, consistent with what they've done for other policy speeches," she wrote. "Frankly, the pipe and drape wasn't high enough by itself to fully cover the IHS and cross above the GU seal and it seemed most respectful to have them covered so as not to be seen out of context." 
Man, that's some oppression of Catholicism right there. Ouch. 
Ben Meekins grad student offcampus April20 


Try to understand 
It's wonderful that President Obama has agreed to speak at Notre Dame's Commencement exercises, and that the University, as is customary, will confer an hon­orary degree on him. If Pope Benedict XVI can receive in audience and bestow an honorific title on the presi­dent of France, who is also pro-choice, surely Notre Dame can do the same for our own. 
As an ND grad I am thrilled to see the progress made by our young and talented president, and by the lead­ership and vision reflected in his proposals -on the economy, health care, energy, education, taxes, Guantanamo, Iraq, Iran, Cuba-all of which align nicely with church social teaching. 
I disagree, however, with his stance on abortion and embryonic stem-cell research. One answer to this dilemma might be to consider what the bishops wrote at Vatican II: "Respect and love ought to be extended also to those who think or act differently than we do in social, political and even religious matters. In fact, the more deeply we come to understand their ways of thinking through such courtesy and love, the more eas­ily will we be able to enter into dialogue with them." 
Another might be to consider what Fr. Jenkins him­self wrote in a 2006 statement he made on Academic Freedom and Catholic Character: "We are committed to a wide-open, unconstrained search for truth, and we are convinced that Catholic teaching has nothing to fear from engaging the wider culture ... After all, a Catholic university is where the church does its think­ing, and that thinking, to be beneficial, must come from an intellectually rigorous engagement with the world." It is certainly not to let radical pro-life activists, spot­light-seeking fringe groups, or a small number of extremist clergy and hierarchy hijack this year's Commencement and reduce it to a media circus. 
May 17 is a day for the Class of 2009, and from an historical perspective one that should be a time for rejoicing and celebration -for the substantial progress made in civil rights and racial relations over the past 50 years, and Notre Dame's contribution to that progress. It was Notre Dame's president emeritus, Fr. Hesburgh, who was active for years on the Civil Rights Commission and who walked hand in hand with Dr. Martin Luther King in Alabama. For Fr. Hesburgh and all men and women of good will who worked to overcome centuries of deeply ingrained racial injustice, this year's Commencement represents a very special moment. Let's give it the attention it deserves and cele­brate it accordingly. 
Michael Kronin alumus class of 1960 April20 



The trailer for "Dragonball: Evolution" made thR movie look so laughably bad that I couldn't help but tag along with some friends to see it this weekend. Now, I wasn't a huge fan of the series when I was younger, but even I could tell within the first 15 minutes that the movie was one of the worst I have ever seen. 
The movie revolves around the search for seven Dragonballs by the main characters. Piccolo, portrayed by James Marsters, wants to gather them to destroy or conquer the world: He says both at one point or another in the movie, which is one example of the film'& poor standards for continu­ity. Also racing against the clock is Goku (Justin Chatwin) and his cohorts, who want the Dragonballs in order to stop Piccolo. Either side will achieve their goal by gathering all seven Dragonballs and summoning the dragon Shen Long, who can grant "one perfect wish." 
The most important thing that this movie is lacking is conti­nuity. Not only does Piccolo waver between wanting to destroy and conquer the world -two very different concepts -but supposedly the only time the Dragonballs can be used is during the eclipse. At the beginning of the movie, this is slated to happen in seven days. However, before long, sud­denly it's down to two. Where did the other five days go?! 
One of the best examples of how important this race against the clock is when Bulma Briefs (Emmy Rossum), Roshi (Chow Yun-Fat), and Goku end up trapped in a hole by the bandit Yumcha (Joon Park). They sit there for several hours when he refuses to let them out without payment. But when Roshi gets upset with Yumcha, he just levitates himself out, saying: "We don't have time for this." Why didn't you say so in the first place?! You are wasting your time in the movie, and the audience is already regretting wasting their money to watch you continue to waste your time! 
In addition to this, the acting is less than the best. Goku often adopts a monotone voice to lament things like his grandfather, Goban's, death, and his own solutions to the problems later in the movie. The villains aren't a threat at all, because they're barely in the movie. Piccolo had approxi­mately 15 minutes of screen time during the entire 80-minute film. His henchmen were less than threatening when they appeared, which they rarely did. 

Dragonball: Evolution 
20th Century Fox Directed By: James Wong Staning: Justin Chatwin, Emmy Rossum, Chow Yun-Fat, James Marsters 
This film failed to achieve anything even vaguely resem­bling decency. Characters were randomly thrown in and introduced, placed there more because they were a part of the original series than the fact that they actually had a decent moment to enter the film. Connections were made between characters in the span of seconds, like Bulma's brief affair with Yumcha. Things are never explained, like how Piccolo just seems to know where the Dragonballs are and how Goku and Bulma are lucky enough to stumble upon them with her detector device. 
All in all, this wasn't just a massacre of a popular series: it was a poorly written and directed film. It lacked everything that would have made it laughably terrible, and instead plunged off the deep end into just horrible. 
Contact Kaidyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 

The 1980's were a strange time. The style of those years is almost incompre­hensible. Our generation's current fascination with this past decade seems to originate in a comparison which makes us seem almost intelligent. In as much as our fashion comes off as superior, it's hard to give the 80's much credit. 
There remains, however, one aspect of the 80's which is hard to contend with for any decade; the music. While a fair amount of filler was produced, a huge num­ber of excellent artists emerged who were able to achieve both critical and commercial success. One of the rare musicians who reached this summit was Prince. 
Before Prince became somewhat of a musical punch line by changing his name to a symbol (0(+> for those who missed it), he had put together one of the most impressive decades of the past 30 years. While his musical peak occurred with the release of "Sign 0' the Times," his cultural peak followed the release of the film "Purple Hain" in 1984. 
In a modern viewing, the movie cannot be taken seri­ously. Its immersion into the 80's plays for laughs. In more than one scene, a club full of people dance in uni­son. The clothing and make-up (on both sexes) looks more at home at a stume party. Not even the g comes off as authen­. Beyond that, the story­line is full of holes. There are several relationships hich are left unexplained. he shooting looks worthy of a much lower budget and the attempts at symbolism are shallow. But if you're atching a film starring Prince for its cinematic alue, you're missing the 
int. 
What it lacks in sub­tance, the movie more makes up in entertain­At its core, it's a two our long music video and 
y keeping music  as  its  
, it excels.  
While  Prince's  music  

rves as the score for the , the finest moments are e music performances. Most of these scenes were shot in a single take and on 
location at nightclub in Minneapolis, Minn. Prince takes com­mand of the entire audience with an energetic, aggres­sive stage presence which leaves no questions as why he's considered one the best live shows, even today. 
For a musician with such a large ego, it's amazin that Prince's performan don't overpower the movie. Prince allows his rival, Morris Day, to steal a eou­ple of scenes. Day's per­formances don't reach the same emotional highs as Prince, but they're just as entertaining. "Jungle Love", the group's most successful song, provides a wonderful­ly flamboyant stage show, complete with animal sounds and a dancing hype man. In fact, Day's over­the-top and uncontrolled acting provide a com reason to watch the their own. 
While the climax of the storyline revolves around Prince's relationship with his father, the high point when Prince and th Hevolution take the stage play the title track. As an expressive Prince plays the best song he ever wrote, the audience is left floored both the outpouring of emo tion and sheer majesty o the music. Even in the out­landish and somewhat cheesy atmosphere, "Purple Rain" stands out as one the best performances e filmed. 
Although Prince went on to star in two more movies, he would never come any­where close to the suceess enjoyed by "Purple Rain". Instead, it propelled his musieal career even higher and gave him a huge and well-deserved mainstream audience. 
For such an awesome dis­play of music, it's amazing how few people under th age of 40 have seen it. Over the past 25 years, "Purple Hain" went from one of the best rock and roll movies ever to a forgotten gem. some point, everyon should get out their best high heels, eye liner and tight pants and take two hours to marvel at the experience that is "Purple Rain". 
Contact Nick Anderson at nandersS@nd.edu 

By CORNELIUS ROGERS 
Scene Writer 
Journalism. Politics. Murder. Conspiracy. Watergate. No, "All the President's Men" was not re-released in theaters. Rather, the thriller "State of Play" opened this weekend. The film delivers a complex plot rife with the suspense of D.C. politics, journalism, and of course, murder. As if the suspenseful plot wasn't enough, the film packs an all-star cast. Newer stars, such as Rachel McAdams and Jason Bateman, hold their own alongside big names, such as Russell Crowe, Helen Mirren, Ben Affleck and Robin Wright Penn. The film's complex plot and excellent acting are sure to give viewers a lot of bang for their buck. 
Coming to the foreground of the film is Cal McAffrey, played by Russell Crowe. Cal is a seasoned veteran reporter who is interested in only one thing -getting the real story out there. To this end, he will overcome any legal or ethical obstacles, including taping a source without their knowledge. Method actor Russell Crowe fully immerses his persona into the role of Cal. His disheveled hair and the weight he put on for the role are likely to convince viewers that he is long past his physical prime. 
Partnered alongside Cal is Della Frye, played by Rachel McAdams. She is an online political blogger, which Cal, whose loyalty is to the printed page, refers to as "online upchuck." Ms. McAdams is quite convinc­ing as an older woman, partly due to her character's older name, and partly due to her acting talent. While the film's plot itself delivers many surprises, another and McAdams. The two actors portray a fierce dualism. Old vs. New. Journalism vs. Blogging. And of course, Man vs. Woman. The odd thing about their chemistry is that there is no sexual tension whatsoever. The fact that the film does not fall into this cliche romantic plotline is refreshing. However, the writers cannot help themselves when Cal has an affair with the wife of his best friend, Stephen Collins (played by Ben Affleck). Affleck's acting is noteworthy. He does a fairly convincing job as the passion­ate Congressman set on dismantling a mali­cious defense contractor. But his acting can be a tad overdramatic at times. Nevertheless, he has certainly outgrown the days of "Paycheck" and "Daredevil." 
On the other side of the camera, the film is directed by Kevin Macdonald (of "Last King of 
Scotland" fame). Its three writers are pros when it comes to the subject of politics and conspiracy. The film is written by Matthew Michael Carnahan ("Lions for Lambs"). Tony Gilroy (The "Bourne" trilogy and "Michael Clayton") and Billy Ray ("Breach"). Unlike most films that take place in Washington D.C., the film does not deliver a one-sided political message. Instead it offers a glimpse at the dark side of journalism, with reporters who will violate several laws and ethical codes, including withholding evidence from the police, to get to the bottom of a story. But the reporters are not the only ones to blame because they are under pressure from newspaper owners who are solely inter-
State of Play 
Universal 
Director: Kevin McDonald Starring: Russell Crowe, Rachel McAdams, Ben Affleck, Helen Mirren, Robin Wright Penn 
ested in making a profit. (Oddly enough these owners never appear in the film.) Rounding out the cabal, there are Congressmen with varying agendas investi­gating the shadowy dealings of a private defense con­tractor. But just who is more corrupt? The many point­ed fingers are just part of the greater narrative of intrigue and subterfuge. 
In short, if you are hungry for a political thriller that is mysterious enough to keep you interested but not complex enough that you get lost, combined with a tremendous wealth of superb acting talent, then "State of Play" will satiate your palate. 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl@nd.edu 
By CORNELIUS ROGERS 
"Prison Break" has broken free of the shows that get cancelled mid-sea­with large storylines unresolved. Now its fourth and final season, "Prison Break" has only a handful of episodes left before its season finale. However, this is not due to a decline in ratings or a lack of confidence by the network. The writers and producers petitioned Fox to allow to end the series this year, because felt ending it this season would pro­an ending that would be in keeping the rest of the show and would the loyalty of its fans. This will nt the writers from dragging the out long past its prime. (They can escape from prison so many times). as the series winds to its close, let's 
back on how it all began and how it where it is now. tale began like any other. It was a 
e of brotherly love. Not set in hiladelphia, but rather Joliet, Ill. to jail and framed for a crime e did not commit, Lincoln Burrows \'-''""'~ ..... Purcell) faces the death penalty. to his rescue is his brother ""''"""'" Scofield (Wentworth Miller), the engineer who throws himself in alongside his brother. Michael's cun­wit and the blueprints of the prison he tattooed to his body are their only 
for escape. 
While they hatch their escape plot they unter benevolent friends, like cell­Fernando Sucre (Amaury Nolasco), enemies like the eloquent pedophile Theodore Bagwell, erwise known as "T-Bag" (Robert er). The brothers also manage to romance in the first season. Michael smitten by prison doctor Sara Tancredi Wayne Callies), and Lincoln falls his attorney, Veronica Donovan (Robin 
). 

But how could romance blossom when secret service agent Paul Kellerman (Paul Adelstein) was hired by a secret evil cor­poration known as The Company to kill the brothers and anyone close to them? More about the mystery surrounding the death of the man that Lincoln supposedly "killed," is revealed in a shocking season finale where the brothers and six other cons escape from prison. 
But breaking out was only the begin­ning. As the second season began, the clever Michael Scofield met his match in the formidable genius of Alexander Mahone (William Fichtner), the FBI agent assigned to track down the fugitives. For every smart move Michael had, he had an equally impressive countermove. Just as cunning as Michael, he managed to track down half of the fugitives and had several close encounters with the brothers. But like all "Prison Break" characters he was not perfect. He had some skeletons in his closet, and in his backyard. 
Also, the second season showed viewers more background to the characters and how they acted while on the run. Some relationships flourished, while others were cut short by an untimely death. The second season had the highest body count by far, but such can be expected when the stakes are as high as pursuit of a million dollars and exposing a secret government conspiracy. In an explosive showdown full of many twists and turns, the gang ended up in Panama by the end of the second season. 
Season three began with half of the characters in a Panamanian prison with no guards. The biggest threat this season was two-fold. 1) If someone threw down a chicken foot, it meant a fight to the death was imminent. 2) Meet sexy Company agent Gretchen Morgan (Jodi Lyn O'Keefe): she will do just about anything to make sure Michael breaks out of that Panamanian prison, along with the mys­terious James Whistler (Chris Vance). 
This season was only 13 episodes long due to the writer's strike, but that did not make any less emotional with the tragic death of a beloved character. 
However, season four begins by telling us this "death" never actually took place. This is just one piece of exciting news as the gang of ex-cons are offered an unusu­al deal by Homeland Security agent Don Self (Michael Rapaport). If the gang can work together to help bring down the evil Company that set them up, they will be granted full immunity. But as "Prison Break" often reminds us, no one can be trusted and the characters soon find themselves scattered across the U.S. and on the search for Scylla -a hard drive that contains vital information to the Company. 
This brings us to the current state of affairs. It looks like the writers are trying to meddle with the notion of brotherly love that started the show in the first place by pitting Michael and Line against each other. Hopefully they are just pulling our legs for a more dramatic fraternal reunion. And the family drama is even more prevalent as the brothers' mom, long thought to be dead, emerges. Her loyalties to her sons and to the Company are both questionable. 
What's in store for the final episodes? The writers claim episode 22 will be a flash forward a few years in the future to see where everyone ends up, that is for those who don't end up in body bags. Then a two-hour movie will bridge the gap between the present and the future flash forward. Will Michael and Lincoln finally open their scuba shop in Panama? Will Alexander Mahone ever get to see his wife Pam again? Will the irascible and verbose T-Bag fmally get what's coming? You'll have to tune it at 8 p.m. on Friday nights to fmd out. 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl @nd.edu 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 21, 2009 
NBA 
Brown wins Auerbach trophy for coach of the year 
Cleveland to the postseason in yourself. panel of 122 sports writers and er," Brown said. "The biggest
Associated Press 
each of his four seasons, was "You have some great people broadcasters, who awarded five thing this year was fmding that 
INDE-honored Monday as the league's around you." points for first, three points for elusive word chemistry among a PENDENCE, Ohio -like his first top coach after leading the None greater than James, the second and one point for third. group of individuals to try and year in Cleveland, LeBron James' Cavaliers to 66 wins, a Central likely league MVP, who feels Houston's Rick Adelman was reach one goal. Our goal has not second NBA season ended with­Division title and the No. 1 overall Brown has been overlooked second with 151 points, one changed, but the thing that we out a trip to the playoffs. The playoff seed following the great­mostly because he has a super­ahead of Orlando's Stan Van felt would help define chemistry miss was inexcusable to Cavaliers est regular season in club history. star at his disposal. Gundy. Both got 13 first-place is trust. They have shown rookie owner Dan Gilbert, who With James and the other "That was the main reason," votes. Portland's Nate McMillan tremendous trust in one and set out an immediate coaching Cavaliers standing behind him James said. "But that doesn't was first on 15 ballots and fin­other. We've tried as a staff to search so it wouldn't happen and his coaching staff seated a take away from the fact that we ished fourth with 127 points. show trust in them and in order again. few feet away, Brown humbly still have to go out there and play New Orleans coach Byron Scott to help that I had to show trust in 
Gilbert plucked a highly accepted the Red Auerbach tro­for him and abide by his system. won the award last year. my assistants." regarded assistant off Indiana's phy. There are a lot of teams with Preaching the importance of As he complimented his assis­staff, a likable guy who vowed to "If they did not want me to great talent, but that doesn't trust to his players since training tants, James, Delonte West and instill a defense-first identity in coach them, I wouldn't be able to automatically qualify you as a camp, Brown has created a tight­other players reached over and Cleveland. coach them," he said. "I look at good coach or give you wins. ly knit team fronted by James, began patting assistants Mike 
The hiring wasn't well received. this as a partnership. Yes, my "It just showed this year how who led the applause for his Malone, John Kuester, Hank 
"Who the heck is Mike Brown?" name is on this, but this is the good of a coach he is." coach during the news confer­Egan, Melvin Hunt and Chris Jent Cavs general manager Danny ultimate team award from a Brown joins Bill Fitch in 1976 ence at Cleveland's training facili­on their backs. Ferry recalled as the overriding coaching standpoint. I haven't put as the only Cleveland coaches to ty. The 38-year-old Brown also "I had to show our players that sentiment back then. on a uniform or done anything win the award. has given more authority to his I trust those guys," Brown said. 
Four years later, here's an out on the floor. The players have Expected to be a close vote, assistants, a sign of both his "We can talk about something updated answer: coach of the done it all. The coaching staff has Brown won in a landslide. He maturity as a coach and confi­and I can turn my back to it and year. done a lot and when you win an received 55 first-place votes and dence as a leader. we know the job is going to get 
Brown, who has taken award like this, you can't do it by earned 355 total points from a "This is our fourth year togeth-done." 

Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -Mississippi basketball coach Andy Kennedy avoided jail time Monday by pleading guilty to a reduced charge of disorderly conduct for his altercation with a cab driver. 
Kennedy was sentenced to 40 hours of community service and six months probation by Hamilton County Municipal Court Judge Dwane Mallory. The coach faced up to six months in jail on his original assault charge. 
Standing in the middle of the courtroom with his hands clasped behind his back, Kennedy turned toward the cab driver and a valet who wit­nessed the incident and apolo­gized to them "for any role that I may have played in this unfortu­nate situation." 
Kennedy has three years remaining on his contract with Mississippi. A few hours after the coach's plea, the school's athletics director declined to extend the deal beyond that ­even though he said Kennedy's on-the-court performance war­ranted it 
"Andy should have handled 
NCAA BASKETBALL 



Coach Kennedy avoids jail time 
Ole Miss head coach pleads guilty to disorderly conduct charges 
this situation better as it relatns to the time frame and subse­quent dispute," athletics direc­tor Pete Boone said. 
The 41-year-old coach was arrested last December when Mississippi was in Cincinnati for a game against Louisville as part of the SEC/Big East Invitational. Cab driver Mohamed Moctar Ould Jiddou said Kennedy punched him in the face and called him a terror­ist after he told the coach he couldn't fit him and four others into his cab. 
Kennedy is still embroiled in civil lawsuits with the driver and the valet, who backed the cab driver. 
Kennedy declined to comment after the hearing Monday, not­ing that the civil lawsuits are still pending. He later released a statement through Ole Miss apologizing to the school and its fans. 
"I acknowledge using poor judgment which resulted in an adverse reflection on me, my family, our program and the university that I so proudly rep­resent," Kennedy said in his statement. 
Ole Miss finished 16-15 last season, ending with a loss to Kentucky in the opening round of the Southeastern Conference tournament. 
Police said Kennedy was in a downtown bar with friends and Ole Miss staff last Dec. 18, the night before the game. When Kennedy hailed a cab to return to the team's hotel, Jiddou told him there were only four seat belts in his car, so under law he couldn't take the entire party. 
The cab driver said Kennedy became abusive, called him "bin Laden, Saddam Hussein," and punched him in the side of the face. Police were called and Kennedy was arrested. 
Bill Armstrong, the school's director of operations for the basketball team, also was charged with disorderly con­duct. Armstrong pleaded guilty before a different Municipal Court judge Monday and was fmed $100. 
Kennedy vehemently denied that he hit the cab driver or called him names, saying the allegations were "heinous." He later sued the cab driver and the valet who came forward as a witness, and they filed coun­tersuits. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit

CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Rental House 1 mile from NO, on TRANSPO route. New kitchen, FoR RENT bath, windows & carpet. 2 bed­
rooms, 2 living rooms & dining andersonNDrentals.com FREE room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. COMCAST! Call Linda 574·288-0168 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer-3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on ing 1 O·month leases. Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are NO Bluegoldrentals.com alums. Pis call/text 619-804·3359. 
Off-Campus housing at Dublin 2009/1 0 student rentals Angela Village, Irish Crossings. Now up to St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300· $100 off per room per month with $2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon an application by May 15. Call CES 57 4-876-3537. Property Management at 574·968· ---------------0112. 
Houses for the 09·1 0 school year. --------------­2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at Professor s home near NO avail· 574·234-2436 or www.kramerhous· able summer session. 574-233­es.com 8855 or 574-387·4205. 
HISTORIC HOME· CHAPIN PK. 2800 s/1 +base., L.R. w/fp. 4 bdrms,study +finished 3rd fl. Full appliances+ W&D,3 porches. 413 W. Navarre. $1350 + uti1574·261­3184 or email escargot55@hot­mail.com or www.xog.com/proper· ty/413WNavarre.html 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assault! 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health·safety/assis· tance-for-pregnant·students. 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301)977·5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
Something in the way she moves Ooh I need your love babe Attracts me like no other lover Guess you know it's true Something in the way she woos me Hope you need my love babe I don't want to leave her now Just like I need you You know I believe and how 
Hold me, love me, hold me, love me Somewhere in her smile she knows I ain1 got nothing but love babe That I don1 need no other lover Eight days a week Something in her style that shows me Love you every day girl Dont want to leave her now Always on my mind You know I believe and how One thing I can say girl 
Love you all the time You're asking me will my love grow I don't know, I don't know Eight days a week I love you You stick around now it may show Eight days a week is not enough to I don't know, I dont know show I care 
Something in the way she knows --------------­And all I have to do is think of her Something in the things she shows I'm much happier than Jane. All she me does is smile. I laugh. 








OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April21, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
Deriba Merga crosses the finish line first for the men's division at the Boston Marathon Monday. Salina Kosegi won for the women's division. This year's race marked the best placements for American racers since 1985. 
Merga and Kosgei win Marathon 
NCAA Softball· RPI National Ranking! 
team  record  
1  Florida  42-3  
2  Washington  31·7  
3  Alabama  33·8  
4  UCLA  29·8  
5  Georgia  29·7  
6  Tennessee  33·9  
7  Missouri  36·5  
8  Arizona  33·9  
9  Arizona State  34·8  
10  Michigan  29·9  
11  Oklahoma  31-13  
12  Stanford  35·4  
13  LSU  25-10  
14  Ohio State  32·6  
15  Florida State  32·13  
16  Kentucky  25·16  
17  Louisville  36·5  
18  Iowa  33·9  
19  Northwestern  23·8  
20  North Carolina  37·7  
21  DePaul  24·9  
22  Auburn  27·16  
23  California  28·12  
24  Florida Gulf Coast  40·6  
25  Texas  31-14  


NCAA Women's Rowing Division 1 CRCA Poll 
team  points  
1  Yale  494  
2  Brown  425  
3  washington  420  
4  Stanford  413  
5  California  400  
6  Virginia  366  
7  Michigan State  327  
8  Princeton  321  
9  Harvard  314  
10  Southern California  280  
11  Washington State  255  
12  Ohio State  221  
13  Clemson  201  
14  Wisconsin  174  
15  Michigan  165  
16  Tennessee  98  
17  Boston University  93  
18  Oregon State  70  
19  Minnesota  66  
20  Louisville  30  


NCAA Women's Tennis ITA Division 1 Rankings 
team 
1 Northwestern 
2 Georgia 
3 Duke 
4 NOTREDAME 
5 Baylor 
6 Miami(Fia.) 
7 Georgia Tech 
8 california 
9 Southern Ca lilontia 
10 UCLA 
11 clemson 
12 Stanford 13 Tennessee 
14 Arkansas 15 Fresno Slate 



around the dial 
NCAA Football 
College Football All-Star Challenge 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
Chicago Cubs vs. Cincinnati Reds 7p.m., WGN 
BOSTON MARATHON 


Associated Press 
BOSTON-Ethiopia's Deriba Merga overcame the disappointment of his Olympic fade to win the Boston Marathon on Monday, and Kenya's Salina Kosgei won the closest women's race in the history of the event. Americans took third in both races for the best U.S. finish since 1985. 
Merga, who was passed in the last quarter-mile and finished fourth in Beijing, pulled away before Heartbreak Hill and won in 2 hours, 8 minutes, 42 sec­onds-almost a full minute ahead of Kenya's Daniel Rono and American Ryan Hall. 
IN BRIEF Demebius Bvrd in critical but 

stable condition after crash 
MIAMI-Former LSU receiver Demetrius Byrd was in critical but stable condition Monday after a car accident in Miami, and his agent said the NFL prospect was expected to recover fully. 
"I just spoke with Demetrius' mother and she said that he has mostly bumps and bruises," Byrd's junior college coach, Tim Hatten of Pearl River Community College, told ESPN's Joe Schad. "She said his injuries are not life threatening and should not be football threatening." 
Agent David Dunn said in a statement that initial reports indicated Byrd will be OK. The statement did not give Byrd's injuries or any details about the crash Sunday. 
"Our thoughts and prayers are with Demetrius and with his mother, Sharon, and the entire Byrd family," Dunn said. 

''I've never experienced anything like this," said Hall, who took the early lead and was shoulder-to· shoulder with the leaders until they passed from Wellesley into Newton, with about 10 rrriles to go. "And I've been in the Rose Parade, so that's a pretty big deal." 
Kosgei won a sprint with defending champion Dire Tune, trading the lead sev· eral times in the final blocks of Boylston Street before hitting the tape less than a stride ahead of the Ethiopian in 2:32:16. American Kara Goucher led the three as they crossed the MassPike into Kenmore Square with one rrrile to go, 
Detroit Lions make subtle 
changes to team's logo 
MADISON HEIGHTS, Mich. ­Detroit has added teeth to its new Lions logo. Only time will tell if the product on the field also has teeth. 
The franchise revealed subtle changes to the logo and how the word "Lions" is spelled out during a news conference Monday attend­ed by dozens of fans. 
Detroit stumbled to the NFL's first 0-16 season last year and has the first pick Saturday in the NFL draft. 
The leaping lion appears more fierce, while the team name fea­tures an italicized slant. 
The team says the changes are consistent with its "sense of mis­sion and direction." 
"We stand firmly committed to improving the team on the field," team president Tom Lewand said. "That success is always the most determinative factor of any NFL brand." 
but she was outkicked down the stretch and fin­ished nine seconds back. 
"I just wanted it for every­body that wanted it for me," said Goucher, whose voice cracked repeatedly in the postrace news conference. ''I'm proud of how I did. I just wanted to be the one that won-for everybody." 
The winners will take home $150,000, but Merga had to wait for his tradition­al laurel wreath: The women, who had a 30­minute head start, ran so slowly and the men's pace was so fast that he crossed the finish line before Kosgei had a chance to climb the champion's podium. 
"I was little bit embar­
Celtic's GM comes back 

after hospitalization 
BOSTON-Celtics general man­ager Danny Ainge attended Boston's shootaround Monday after being released from a hos­pital following a heart attack but was not at the second game of the playoffs against the Chicago Bulls. 
Ainge was released from Massachusetts General Hospital on Sunday, three days after he was admitted and had surgery. The 50-year-old Ainge did not speak with reporters Monday. 
"It meant a lot" to see Ainge at the morning shootaround, Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. "He came in today, then we told him to go home. It was great to see him." 
Asked if he thought the intense Ainge would watch Monday night's game at home, Rivers said, "I don't know if anybody in his house will be able to turn the TV off." 
rassed," said Colleen De Reuck, a 45-year-old four· time Olympian and natural· ized U.S. citizen who grabbed the lead out of frustration and finished eighth. "You come to a marathon and a big marathon like this, you get paid a lot of money to come and run and I think you should race." 
No American has won in Boston since Lisa Larsen­Weidenbach in 1985, when the U.S. women swept the top three and the men came in second and third. But the presence of Goucher and Hall among the leaders brought out fans holding "Go Kara!" signs and chant­ing for the U.S. runners. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April21, 2009 
MLB 




Double-digit victory caps off sweep for Red Sox 
Ohlendorf allows two hits over seven on way to shutout; Votta drives in two in the seventh to push Reds past Astros 
Justin Masterson (1-0), who further information was something is working. April coming into this season
Associated Press 

replaced injured starter available. "As a staff, I think we get was the third lowest of any 
BOSTON -A couple of Daisuke Matsuzaka, held the Red Sox left-ha.nder Hunter along really well and push NL hitter since 1900. slumping sluggers broke out Orioles to one run and four Jones made his major league each other, and it does seem LaRoche was 0-for-1 0 in his on Patriots' Day for the Red singles in 5 1/3 innings. He debut and pitched a hitless to be breeding confidence previous three games and Sox. walked two and struck out ninth. and competition between us was 0-for-14 against Florida 
Dustin Pedroia went 4-for-6 three. Baldelli left the game in the to see who can pitch the last season. with three run-scoring sin­Cesar lzturis drove in top of thP fourth with a mild best," Ohlendorf said. "I The announced crowd on a gles and David Ortiz had a Baltimore's run with an strained left hamstring. know we're all really happy cool, rainy night was 8,090, two-run triple to lead the infield hit. with how we've done so far but the actual attendance Boston Red Sox to a 12-1 win "We didn't pitch well, Pirates 8, Marlins 0 and we feel we'II be able to appeared to be about half over Baltimore, completing a except for yesterday," The majors' hottest team build on it." that. four-game sweep of the Baltimore outfielder Luke was no match for one of its Ohlendorf (1-2), finally get­Orioles on Monday. Scott said. "But at the same most surprising. ting some run support, won Reds 4, Astros 3 
"I would like to be able to time, the last two days we And the surprise is how for the first time in eight The Cincinnati Reds are swing like Pedroia. He does­ran into really good pitching. well the Pittsburgh Pirates starts since being traded to starting to believe in them­n't have to worry about When we score runs, we've are pitching a year after the Pirates by the Yankees selves. mechanics," the big slugger got to have guys hold it on their starters were mostly last season. He shut down a Joey Votto's two-run double Ortiz joked about the MVP the mound. When guys are bad and their bullpen was team that had scored a com­in the seventh inning lifted second baseman who hits in struggling on the mound, even worse. bined 16 runs in its previous the Reds to a victory over the front of him. we've got to pick up the slack Ross Ohlendorf allowed two two games, giving up only Houston Astros on Monday 
Ortiz entered the game hit­and swing the bats." hits over seven innings dur­singles to leadoff batters night. ting just .170 with one extra­The Red Sox jumped on ing Pittsburgh's third shutout Emilio Bonifacio in the first Trailing 3-2, Paul Janish base hit. He also doubled in Mark Hendrickson (1-2) for a in four games and Nate inning and Hanley Ramirez and Willy Taveras singled the first inning on Monday to pair of first-inning runs McLouth drove in four runs in the fourth. Ohlendorf before Votto's hit. It was the go 2-for-4 and knock his before Fenway was filled on as the Pirates ended struck out five and walked third time in the last four average up to .196. a chilly morning with its Florida's seven-game win­one. games that the Reds rallied 
"It felt good today," he 476th straight sellout. ning streak, winning on The Marlins' first three late to win. said. ''I've been working with Pedroia's RBI single made it Monday night. batters reached in the first "It feels great to beat a my mechanics. I've been a 1-0 and Rocco Baldelli's The Marlins began the with the help of shortstop team in our division and to little late with pitches, which groundout scored Pedroia. night with a major league­Jack Wilson's error. After win on the road," Votto said. is something I usually don't Varitek's homer into the best 11-1 record and were that, manager Fredi "But the best part of it was I do." Green Monster seats, where coming off three consecutive Gonzalez said, "I don't think don't think a single player on 
Pedroia, who has also fans were turning around at come-from-behind victories we put a good swing on him the bench was concerned started slowly this season times to see the Boston in their final at-bat in [Ohlendorf] the rest of the when we were behind. and entered the game hitting Marathon's runners make Washington. This time, they night. ... He had a good "They just believe in us .235, had simple advice for their way through Kenmore fell behind 1-0 in the first sinker tailing into right-ban­now. I didn't get the feeling Big Papi. Square, made it 3-0. and never caught up during ders. I think he broke four or that anyone had their heads 
"He'll be all right. He Pedroia's RBI single and their first loss in seven road five bats." down." swung the bat well today," he Ortiz's triple off the left-cen­games. Tyler Yates and Jesse Bronson Arroyo (2 -1) said. "It's a long year. Six ter field wall, just past a With four shutouts, the Chavez finished off the allowed three runs and nine hundred at-bats. The season lunging attempt by center Pirates already have twice as shutout with a scoreless hits in seven innings. isn't 50 at-bats." fielder Felix Pie, made it 6-1 many as they did last season, inning each. "Things are really rolling 
Red Sox manager Terry against reliever Dennis when their 5.10 ERA was the The Pirates manufactured a for us now," Arroyo said. Francona kept Ortiz in the Sarfate in the sixth. NL's worst and the third run in their half of the first "Everything is just falling lineup against a left-handed Mike Lowell had an RBI worst in franchise history. as Nyjer Morgan was hit with into place for us. I just want starting pitcher. double and RBI single to go They've cut that by more Andrew Miller's pitch, stole to keep riding this wave." 
"Anytime hitters hit the along with run-scoring sin­than two runs per game to second and scored on Manager Dusty Baker ball the other way with gles by Ellsbury, Pedroia and 3.08, even while losing 11-1 McLouth's single. They took agreed. authority something's got to Kevin Youkilis in the seventh. Sunday to Atlanta. They shut advantage of some sloppy "Arroyo pitched really be right," Francona said. Hendrickson gave up three out the Braves 3-0 and 10-0 play by Florida to keep well," Baker said. "And 
Jason Varitek hit a solo runs, five hits, walked three in the first two games of that adding on runs, as the (Ryan) Hanigan and Janis homer and Jacoby Ellsbury and struck out six in six series. Marlins had three wild pitch­and everyone contributed. had three hits to highlight innings. He's 0-5 with an The Pirates are 7-6, not a es, a balk and issues six His is a really big win. It's Boston's season-highs in runs 8.05 ERA in eight career great start but an encourag­walks. The Pirates also stole early but they all count the and hits (15). Fenway starts. ing one for a club that hasn't three bases. same." 
The win was the fifth Baltimore third baseman had a winning season since Miller (0-1) threw a run­Arthur Rhodes got out of a straight for the Red Sox, who Ryan Freel left the game in 1992. scoring wild pitch in the bases-loaded jam in the won their sixth consecutive the third after getting hit in "We talked in spring train­fourth, and reliever Logan eighth by striking out Hunter Patriots' Day game; and 27th the head by Masterson's ing about the expectations, Kensing committed a run­Pence. Francisco Cordero in their last 33 at Fenway pickoff attempt at second. He the accountability that was scoring balk while giving up then pitched the ninth for his Park against Baltimore. was flat on his stomach for a put on the starters to be pro­four runs over 2 1/3 innings, fifth save in five tries. 
Boston led 3-1 before scor­few minutes before being ductive and give us innings," ending the Florida bullpen's "We still haven't gotten the ing three runs in the sixth helped to his feet and aided manager John Russell said. streak of 21 1/3 scoreless big hit," Pence said. "You and six in the seventh. The to the dugout by a pair of "We didn't do that last year innings. don't have a lot of opportuni­Orioles lost their fifth Orioles' trainers. Freel has and we suffered. There's After the game, Miller was ties. I think everyone has and straight after a 6-2 start. missed time with concussions urgency there that we've got placed on the 15-day dis­once again we didn't get it 
"Well, it can turn on you in earlier in his career. to be better starting pitch­abled list with an oblique done. I'm going to be a win­a hurry," manager Dave Trembley said that he was ers." injury. ner, I'm going to find a way Trembley said. taken for a CT-scan, but no All those zeros suggests "I thought that it'll be a lit­in those times I'm up at bat, 

!Now £easinu Por 2009-2010 }f.pp{y fl'orfay £imitetfSpace )lvaifa6Cet/I 
Offerino rr1ie (}Jest CJ(§ntdClqltes t"n rz'ownl $99 Por151 tftf.ontfis CJ?§nt tWitJi 12 :Montli Lease! $300 Offpttftf.ontfis Cf<§nt mtli 9 :Montli Lease! Pree;4ppticatt"on Pee !f"orStudents tWitli J.QJ.! Cfose to Campus! 


eastle1'oint 
,~ t UOll C1e-.l.ad ad. So11fa Bead, Dl 46637Apart'nlen .~ l'ltolte: cs141 n~-1111.0 l!a.: (574) zu~,.1.1., 
' 

tle bit of a factor, but I this time I didn't get them." shouldn't haven't any prob­Geoff Geary (0-2) took the lems pitching through it," loss. Miller said. "But it's not an Lance Berkman and Carlos excuse for some of the pitch­Lee hit consecutive homers es I made. It's just not get­in the sixth inning to give the ting any better. I didn't have Astros the lead. Arroyo was that second gear when I the pitcher who broke Lee's wanted to put somebody hand last Aug. 9 ending his away." season when he was leading 
Before Miller left, Adam the league in RBis. LaRoche had a two-run sin­Mike Hampton gave up gle in the fifth. McLouth hit three runs and eight hits in 6 his fourth homer, a three-run 1/3 innings for Houston. He drive off Kensing in the sixth struck out five and walked with the Pirates already up one. It was his first start 5-0. against the Reds since May 
"We don't feel like we have 26, 2003. to put up seven or eight runs "I know I sound like a bro­a game," LaRoche said. "It's ken record, but we got good great. We know if we put up starting pitching and couldn't a couple, we have a chance come up with a big hit when to be in the game and we we needed one," Astros man­haven't had that luxury in ager Cecil Cooper said. "All the past." we needed was one big hit in 
LaRoche went 2-for-3 to the eighth and that would've raise his average to .255 -given us the big, big inning 
an improvement for a player for us but we just couldn't 
.,...z~c~aua.cam 

whose .179 career average in get it." 
Tuesday, April21, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

Cheese & Cracker Reception 
3:00 -4:15 PM, LaFortune Student Center 
Meet Merlin 


Crossingham 
Key animator on "Chicken Run': IIMorph': and J/Wallace &Gromit: Curse of the Were-Rabbit" from Aardman Animations! 

Thursday, April 23, 2009 

FILM-Aardman Animations: A Brief History 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute Film Series 
6:30 &9:30 PM, Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
featuring the latest Wallace and Gromit film 

A Matter of Loaf 

and Death 
Tickets: S6, $5 faculty/staff, $4senior citizens, and $3 all students. Call 574-631-2800 or visit performingarts.nd.edu 
* 1 DEBARTOlO

,,,~~~R~ r~ PERfORMING AR1S CENTER 
Hl~ ~ }.J~OnAN Hti1Hl ~ 


NBA 
Last-second shot 
gives Celts victory 
Allen scores 30, hits tie-breaking three­pointer with two seconds left to beat Bulls 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Ray Allen landed the final blow in a memorable duel with Ben Gordon on Monday night, shooting the Boston Celtics back into their first-round series. 
Allen made a tiebreaking 3­pointer with 2 seconds left and finished with 30 points, lead­ing the Celtics a 118-115 win over the Chicago Bulls in Game 2 on Monday night. 
Gordon nearly carried Chicago to a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven series. He scored with 12.3 seconds left to tie it, the final hoop of his playoff career-high 42 points. Then Boston set up a play for Allen, who took a pass from Rajon Rondo and connected from the right side. 
Allen scored 28 points after getting some advice from coach Doc Rivers at halftime. 
"Doc said going into the half, 'Be aggressive, but let it come to you," Allen said. "I never think I'm not in my rhythm. It can be a grind as a shooter. As a scorer you're always trying to find something." 
Allen and Gordon each had several clutch baskets in the second half as the former University of Connecticut guards battled for control of the game. After Tyrus Thomas missed a shot from midcourt as time expired, Allen headed for his bench where injured Kevin Garnett delivered a cou­ple of congratulatory slaps ­to his head and chest. 
Allen said he doesn't like "being made a fuss over." But that was unavoidable after he broke out of his shooting slump. He scored just four points on 1-for-12 shooting and missed the final shot in Chicago's 105-103 overtime win Saturday. 
"It felt like we were at UConn in the summertime playing pickup," Gordon said. "He is a great shooter and I knew he would break out eventually." 
The next two games of the series are scheduled for Chicago on. Thursday night and Sunday. 
"We feel very confident because we feel like we haven't even played good bas­ketball yet," Boston's Paul Pierce said. "Our best is yet to come." 
The Bulls showed they could compete with the Celtics, who could be without Garnett (strained right knee) for the rest of the playoffs. 
"We got a split and that's tough to do against the defending champs," Gordon said. 
Consecutive 3-pointers by Gordon gave the Bulls a 109­104 lead before the Celtics ral­lied. Glen Davis made two free throws and Rondo connected 
on a long jumper to give Boston a 112-111 lead with 
1:01 to play. 
Gordon followed with a 16­foot jumper and Allen coun­tered with a 3-pointer that put Boston ahead 115-113 with 
25.3 seconds remaining. 
Then it was Gordon's turn. He connected from near the foul line before the Celtics called a timeout to set up their final play. 
Rondo dribbled on the left side and Allen worked himself free, caught the pass in rhythm and converted as the crowd went wild. 
On his way to the locker room after Thomas missed the last shot for Chicago, Rivers shouted, "yeah, yeah," pumped his fist and exchanged high-fives with fans. Then, headed to his postgame news conference, Rivers joked, "nice and easy, never a doubt." 
Davis had 26 points for sec­ond-seeded Boston, passing his career high of 24 points on March 21, and Rondo had a triple-double -19 points, 16 assists and 12 rebounds. Pierce added 18 points and Kendrick Perkins contributed 16 points and 12 rebounds. 
John Salmons had 17 points and Brad Miller scored 16 for Chicago. 
The Allen-Gordon shootout "almost looked like they turned it into a personal bat­tle," Rivers said. "You know, who's the best UConn player to ever play. And it was amaz­ing." 
And physical. 

"We were exchanging jabs there, and I don't mean shots," Allen said. "I mean he caught me with an elbow, I got him right back with an elbow. It was ... competitive." 
Chicago coach Vinny Del Negro cited the Celtics' rebounding as a key to their win. 
"They had 21 offensive rebounds," he said, "and it's going to be hard to win any game, not even a playoff game, if you give up that many offfmsive rebounds." 
The Celtics nearly lost despite controlling rookie point guard Derrick Rose, who sat out most of the first quar­ter with two fouls. He finished with 10 points. seven assists and six rebounds after leading the Bulls with 36 points and 11 assists on Saturday. 
Rondo missed the last 5:03 of the first half with a minor right ankle sprain but returned to start the third quarter. Backup forward Leon Po we didn't return to the bench after going to the locker room early in the second quarter. Rivers said he didn't know anything about Powe's condition "but it didn't look good." 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April21, 2009 
NHL 






Bruins lead series 

3-0 after victory 
Ryder, Thomas lead Boston over Montreal; Varlamov posts shutout in Capitals victory 

A celebration ofNational Poetry Month with a Tag Team Poetry Extravaganza! 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL -Michael Ryder put his past behind him and the Boston Bruins one win from their first playoff series win in 10 years. 
Ryder scored late in the second period against his former team and Tim Thomas made 23 saves to lead Boston to a 4-2 win over the Montreal Canadiens on Monday night. 
Phil Kessel, Shawn Thornton, Chuck Kobasew also scored for Boston. which increased its lead in the Eastern Conference quar­terfinal to 3-0 despite the absence of left wing Milan Lucie, who sat out a one-game league suspen­sion. 
Ryder, a healthy scratch for all but four of Montreal's 12 playoffs games last season, put Boston ahead 17:21 into the second peri­od. 
''I'd forgotten about last year. I don't really think about it," said Ryder, who signed a three-year, $12-million free agent contract with Boston. "It feels like I've been here for so long now, actual­ly, and the guys are great and they've welcomed me in and it's good just to be a part of the team. We're rolling good right now." 
The former Canadiens left wing jumped on a rebound of Dennis Wideman's shot from the right point and beat Carey Price with a shot into an open left side. 
''I'm sure everybody would like to hear the word 'justice', but that's not for me to say," said Bruins coach Claude Julien, who was himself relieved of his duties behind the Canadiens' bench mid­way through the 2005-06 season by Montreal GM -and current head coach -Bob Gainey. 
"I think we're just kind of happy we were able to sign him," Julien said of Ryder, "and he's played a big role for us this year." 
Kobasew scored into an empty net with 37 seconds remaining. 
Chris Higgins and Yannick Weber scored for Montreal, which has lost seven in a row, including its last four games of the regular season. 
"At this point, there's not too much positive there," Canadiens Saku Koivu said. "Every game, there are things you try to build on but what we're doing right now is not enough. We have to find a way to get the goals. It doesn't matter how you do it, to get the win." 
Price, pulled Saturday after allowing five goals through the first two periods, made 26 saves in his third straight start. 
The Bruins, who haven't won a playoff series since 1999, are poised to beat the Canadiens for only the eighth time in 32 playoff matchups between the longtime rivals. 
Game 4 is Wednesday night at the Bell Centre. 
Lucie was suspended Monday by league disciplinarian Colin Campbell after he was assessed a match penalty for cross-checking Montreal's Maxim Lapierre late in Saturday's 5-1 win in Boston. 
Left wing Alex Tanguay and defenseman Mathieu Schneider were both injured and unable to play for Montreal. The Canadiens, already without injured top defenseman Andrei Markov, announced moments after the opening faceoff that both key players were sidelined by upper­body injuries. 
"I didn't even know they weren't playing tmtil pretty close to warmups," Higgins said. "To miss those guys, that's a lot of skill that you've got to replace." 
Weber, who made his playoff debut Saturday, remained in the lineup and collected two points, including an assist as Higgins gave the Canadiens' their first lead of the series when he opened the scoring with his second goal 
11:52 in. 
Capitals 4, Rangers 0 
Alex Ovechkin proved that the Washington Capitals still have plenty of playoff life even though he's still searching for his first postseason goal. 
Ovechkin did plenty Monday night without finding the back of the net, and the Capitals knock11d back the upstart New York Rangers with a solid victory. Washington rebounded from a pair of frustrating home losses, got to goalie Henrik Lundqvist, and cut its series deficit to 2-1. 
"It was an important game, but it's over," said Ovechkin, who led the NHL with 56 regular-season goals. "It's done. It's history. And we have to battle next game." 
Ovechkin went a third game without a goal, but earned two assists for the second-seeded Capitals, who dominated the No. 7 Rangers. 
Behind 33 saves from 20-year­old Simeon Varlamov, the Capitals moved into position to tie the Eastern Conference matchup Wednesday at Madison Square Garden. 
"We had some lucky goals," said Nicklas Backstrom, Ovechkin's linemate who had three assists. "It's just one game. We have to regroup and come back Wednesday. 
"We worked harder and we had to fight for our lives." 
Despite playing only six career NHL games, Varlamov made a surprise start in Game 2 after Jose Theodore was ineffective in the opener. He was the hard-luck loser in New York's 1-0 victory and earned the nod again. Varlamov, 4-0-1 in the regular season, made coach Bruce Boudreau's decision look brilliant with the help of Washington's potent attack. 
"He's played in the finals of the Russian elite league, which to him is probably like our Stanley Cup," Boudreau said. "He's played in the world championship, and the fact that he doesn't understand a word we're saying probably really helps him." 
After being held to three goals in two games, one at even strength, the Capitals showed how they ranked third in the NHL in scoring during the regular sea­son. 
Ovechkin cut down on his shooting after recording 19 shots in the first two games and having another 17 attempts blocked, and showed off his passing skills. He earned assists on Alexander Semin's two goals in the first peri­od and was on the ice when Brooks Laich added a power-play tally in the second. 

Pleasejoin us for live performances from the Creative Writing Faculty, Emeriti and MFA students 

CREATIVE 
WRITING PROGRAM 

PRESENTED AT TH£ 
HAMMES NOTrtF DAME f\OOKSTORF 
Please contact 574.631579l with questions. 

iPhone use on campus 

Tuesday, April 21, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
Softball 
continued from page 24 
will enter Tuesday's contest after rattling off a string of strong performances last weekend. Notre Dame swept the cellar of the Big East with convincing wins over Villanova and Rutgers to maintain their third-place position in the Big East standings. 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf knows her squad will not change its approach to accommodate any team, even a nationally-ranked nonconference opponent. 
"We prepare for all teams the way we've been prepar­ing all year, and that's work­ing on the fundamentals," Gumpf said. 
Not only will today's game serve as an intense matchup between two conference leaders playing at the top of their game, but it will also be the scene of a collision between two of the nation's best. 
Notre Dame senior Brittney Bargar, scheduled to start today's contest, was named the Big East Pitcher of the Week by the league on Monday. Bargar finished last week with a 3-0 record and an ERA of 0.33, bringing the righty to 18 wins and shrinking her ERA to 1.72 on the season. 
The confident Wildcats will bring their best to Melissa Cook Stadium to contend against the stingy Bargar. 
Northwestern freshman Adrienne Monka, one of the nation's most promising young stars, was named Big Ten Player of the Week on Monday for the second time this season after putting together the ninth-longest consecutive hitting streak in Division I history. Monka, joined by four teammates who have earned Big Ten weekly accolades this sea­son, hit .765 in five games, driving in 13 runs and slug­ging 1.706. 
Nevertheless, Gumpf places a great deal of trust in the veteran hurler 

Bargar, who she believes the team can ride all season long. 
Keeping in mind that a postseason berth is the team's ultimate goal, Gumpf is confident that solid pitch­ing and timely hitting will lead the Irish to victory. 
"I think that when we bring it, we can beat anyone we want at any time," Gumpf said. 
Expect big performances at the plate from freshman Dani Miller and junior Christine Lux. Miller is rid­ing a 20-game hitting streak, while leading the Irish in batting average, doubles, and slugging per­centage. The dangerous Lux is having a sensational jun­ior campaign, as she looks to build upon her league­leading 13 homeruns and team-leading 42 RBis. 
The Irish will defend their season-high 10-game win­ning streak when they take the field at 6:00p.m. 
Contact Chris Masond at cmasoud@nd.edu 

NBA 

Parker's 38 helps Spurs even series 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -Tony Parker had 38 points and eight assists to help the San Antonio Spurs beat the Dallas Mavericks 105-84 on Monday night in Game 2 of their first­round playoff series. 
Dallas was trying to send the Spurs to consecutive home playoff losses for the first time since 2002, but couldn't con­tain San Antonio's speedy point guard. Parker had 27 points in the first half. 
"I was just trying to be aggressive," Parker said. "It was a must win for us. Big game." 
Jason Terry finished with 16 points for Dallas, which suf­fered one of the worst losses in the playoff rivalry. 
Game 3 is Thursday in Dallas. The Mavericks beat the Spurs 105-97 on Saturday night for 
their first road playoff victory in three years. But it was hard­ly rare territory for San Antonio: The Spurs have come back to win four series after losing Game 1 since 2002. 
They put together a convinc­ing response in the second game and the frustration for Dallas could be seen all the way down its bench. Mavs owner Mark Cuban punched a water cooler as San Antonio pulled away in the fourth. 
The Mavericks haven't won a playoff series since 2006. Winning the opener was a start, but they'll have to figure out another way to stop Parker in Game 3. 
Parker finished 16-of-22 from the field. He had 19 points in the first quarter alone, equaling the Mavericks' total. 
Parker departed with about 5 minutes left in the fourth to a raucous ovation -and with the leading man out of the game, many fans headed to the exits as Parker took his seat. 

The Mavericks were a favorite target all season for Parker, who averaged more than 31 points and seven assists in four regular-season meetings this season. He had 24 points in Game 1 but the Mavs kept him under control by using different defenders, including the pesky Jose Barea. 
The approach didn't work this time. 
Parker fell three points of his playoff high of 41, set last year in the first round against Phoenix. 
Dirk Nowitzki and Jason Kidd had 14 points apiece for Dallas. 
Tim Duncan had 13 points and 11 rebounds, and Drew Gooden had 13 for the Spurs. 
Dallas shot just 39 percent from the field. The Spurs also dominated on the glass, outre­bounding Dallas 44-28. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 



Jackson pleads guilty, avoids jail 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue point guard Lewis Jackson must complete community service and spend a year under court supervision after pleading guilty Monday to charges of illegal alcohol consumption and possession of drug paraphernalia. 
While Jackson will avoid jail time if he stays out of trouble, Purdue coach Matt Painter has not yet announced any team disci­pline against him. Jackson's bright future could be in doubt after a freshman sea­son that saw him start 30 games and average 5.9 points and a team-leading 
3.3 assists as the Boilermakers reached the NCAA regional semifinals. 
Jackson made the plea during a court hearing in Piatt County, Ill. Jackson, 19, was arrested after he was stopped about 2:30 a.m. April 12 for speeding on Interstate 72 near his home­town of Decatur, Ill. Jackson's defense attorney, Daniel Kennedy, said his client was pulled over for driving 81 mph in a 65 mph zone. 
Assistant state's attorney Jerry Johnson said charges of illegal alcohol possession and possession of less than 
2.5 grams of marijuana were dropped in the plea agree­ment. 
Johnson said Jackson faced no jail time because it was his first criminal offense and that the conviction would be removed from his record if he completes the requirements of his sen­tence. Kennedy said no judg­ment will be entered unless Jackson makes another mis­take, and he doesn't expect that to happen. 
"He was one of the most respectful clients I've ever had," Kennedy said. "He's deeply remorseful for the 
impact this has had on his family." 
During his court supervi­sion, Jackson cannot enter any establishment that pri­marily serves alcohol, and he is subject to random urinaly­sis. He also must complete 50 hours of community serv­ice and a drug evaluation. 
One reason for the guilty plea, Kennedy said, was that the case could be decided in one day, which would pre­vent Jackson from having to make multiple trips back to Piatt County during the school year. 
A Purdue spokesman did not immediately return a call seeking reaction to Jackson's guilty plea. The school last week released a statement saying Painter was aware of Jackson's arrest and that he would wait for an outcome to the court case before com­menting. 
Painter has been tough on players who have gotten in trouble in the past. 
He suspended Tarrance Crump in 2005 for an entire season after his sport-utility vehicle hit a student on cam­pus. 
That same season, Painter kicked guard Korey Spates out of the program for con­duct detrimental to the team. Spates was averaging 10.1 points and 2.5 rebounds a game for a team that had already lost four projected starters to injuries or sus­pensions that season. 
In October 2007, Painter threw starting forward Gordon Watt off the team for good after he was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving. 
Kennedy wants Painter to view Jackson's case differ­ently. 
"I really hope this doesn't have any impact on his future or his career," Kennedy said. "I hope this doesn't hurt him in any way." 


Candide 
THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION Music by LEONARD BERNSTEIN Book Adapted from Voltaire by HUGH WHEELER In a New Version by JOHN CAIRO Lyrics by RICHARD WILBUR Additional lyrics by STEPHEN SONDHEIM, JOHN LATOUCHE, LILLIAN HELLMAN, 
DOROTHY PARKER and LEONARD BERNSTEIN 
Directed by MARK ABRAM-COPENHAVER Music directed by NANCY MENK Choreography by LAURIE LOWRY Costumes designed by MELISSA B BIALKO Lighting and set designed by MICHAELA DUFFY 
CANDIDE (NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION) is presented through special arrangement with Music Theatre International (MTI). All authorized performance materials are also supplied by MTL 421 West 54th Street, New York, NY 10019 Phone: 212-574-4684 Fax: 212-397A684 www.MTIShows.com 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April21, 2009 
a basket on a skillful tip-in, but Main Street Pub quickly

Bookstore 
answered to bring the half to continued from page 24 a close at 11-1. 
The second half opened as also just went cold from the the rain continued to intensi­field in the second half." fy. The ball and the court 
Hallelujah will move on to became slippery, leading to play in the championship several dropped passes, lost game tonight against Main balls and scraped knees. Street Pub at 8:45 p.m. Main Street Pub struck first 
once again, but The Delivery Main Street Pub 21, The Boys answered back. Delivery Boys 11 The Boys put together a 4-2 
Main Street Pub proved why run early in the second half, they are the top team when but Main Street's offense was they handily dispatched The too dynamic to control for Delivery Boys 21-11 Monday long, as they threatened from night. all over the court. 
As the rain drizzled on and "This has been a great sea­off, the undeterred crowds son so far, a really great tour­packed the bookstore courts nament, these guys were a in anticipation of the tough great team and we had a lot match up. The two teams of fun playing them," said Pub began play, clearly favoring captain senior Alex Klupchak. mad skills over fancy match­"We have played some tough ing uniforms. matches in this tournament, 
The game started out rough­this match and tomorrow's ly and intensely. Main Street are no exceptions, I just hope Pub's defense forced The we get better weather." Delivery Boys to take off-bal­The Delivery Boys pushed ance shots and miss key offen­the score up to 13-5, but that sive opportunities. was the closest they would 
Main Street Pub's offense pull in the second half. Main seemed unstoppable, scoring Street Pub attempted some the first 10 points of the con­NBA Jam-esque plays late in test, including two steals, two the half, but after The break-away lay-ups, and Delivery Boys continued to going 2-2 from the line. gain momentum, Main Street 
"This was a tough game, Pub put the final nails in the they really came out quickly coffin and finished the game at the start," said Delivery off 21-11. Boys captain senior Gary Main St!'eet Pub will face Burke. "We came out of the Hallelujah Holla Back in the second half with a lot of open bracket championship adjustments, and managed to tonight at 8:45 p.m. at the keep pace with them, but it Bookstore Courts. was just a little too late." 
After being run over for Contact Alex West at almost the entire half, The awest@hcc-nd.edu and Delivery Boys managed to get Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles break streak vs. Trine 
New lineup adjustments prove vital in timely conference victory 
format, therefore we are Hurley and Gebert both
By KATE GRABAREK 

trying to be more aggres­faced tough opponents at 
Sports Writer 

sive. [Mary Therese Lee] No. 1 and 2 singles, moves extremely well at respectively, but each came 
Saint Mary's earned a the net. She is quick and is away with straight set vic­convincing 9-0 victory over able to put the ball away tories. MIAA opponent Trine quickly up close at the Campbell noted that Monday evening at the Eck net." Gebert's physical fitness Tennis Pavilion, breaking a The No. 1 duo of junior has been a key for her this three-Camille season and that it gives her game con-Gebert and a tremendous amount of ference sophomore confidence going into her I o s i n g "Doubles can be quickly J i I I i a n matches. streak. won or lost in an eight Hurley con­This was the Belles first 
T h e tinued their MIAA win since defeating
game pro-set format, 
Belles sur­dominance, Alma on March 28, drop­rendered therefore we are trying to winning 8-0, ping more recent matches just 12 be more aggressive. " while sopho­against Calvin, Albion and g a m e s mores Betsy Kalamazoo. total on Reed and "I hope the tough losses
Dale Campbell 
the day, F r a n c a will motivate us," Campbell with six of Belles coach Peluso said. "We know we are so their nine teamed up close to breaking through." victories at No. 2 The Belles will travel to coming doubles for Hope College to play their without dropping a single an 8-2 victory. next conference match, and game. Sophomore Jessica then to Adrian on Saturday. 
Thanks to a few lineup Kosinski was inserted back "Hope is really tough and changes made by coach into the lineup at No. 3 sin­they will be ready for us," Dale Campbell, sophomores gles and was able to defeat Campbell said. "They have Jessica Camp and Mary her opponent without drop­been on a roll as of late. Therese Lee were able to ping a set. Hopefully, we can bring our cruise to an early 8-0 vic­Reed defeated her oppo­best game and give them a tory at No. 3 doubles. nent by the same score at close match. We look for­
"We made lineup changes No. 4 singles, while Peluso ward to the challenge." to try to change the strate­earned a double bagel at The match against Hope is gy a bit in doubles," No. 5 singles. slated to start at 4 p.m. Campbell said. "Doubles Camp followed suit in the can be quickly won or lost No. 6 singles match, also Contact Kate Grabarek at in an eight game pro-set without dropping a game. kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Rev. Ed1nund P. Joyce, c:.S.C. Award f()r Dockweiler Award for Exccllenee in Excellence in Undt~rgraduate Teaching Undere,>raduatc Advising 
The following faculty members have had a profound influence on The following individuals have demonstrated a deep commitment Notre Dame undergraduates through sustained, exemplary teaching. to Notre Dame undergraduates through outstanding mentoring, academic advising, or career counseling services. 
Carl B. Ackermann David K. O'Connor Gary A. Amkrson David F. Ruecio Francis X. Connolly Seth N. Brown \ViUiam j. SdunuhL Jr. Julliet N. Mayinja Noriko llanahusa Robert P. St·<llack, Jr. Ava Preacher Paul Hdtjuist MihirSen Mary Catht·rine Hilkert, O.P. Dennis M. Snow Joshua B. Kaplan john j. Statui lan KuijL Henry M. Wcinficld 
I$1UNIVERSITY OF
Gary A. Lamberti l\·fiehcHe A. \Vhaky 

WNOTREDAME
Sylvia L. Lin Susan L. Y ouens 


Tuesday, April21, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Michigan 
continued from page 24 
Michigan will make the trip to Eck Stadium Wednesday for the second game of the home­and-home series. 
Junior A.J. Pollock said he thinks placing more emphasis on one opponent than another can be dangerous in a sport like baseball. 
"If we put more emphasis on this game than any other game it goes against what baseball is all about," Pollock said. "It's not like football where you have a week build­up and pep rallies and all that." 
Both Pollock and Maust said the length of the baseball sea­son makes it difficult to play up one opponent over another. And after the weekend the Irish had, they're looking to continue their momentum no matter whom they face. 
Notre Dame (22-14, 8-7 Big East) got drilled 19-3 by West Virginia Friday, but took both games of Saturday's double­header, 8-6 and 3-0. Maust pitched a complete-game shutout in the second game and allowed only five hits. 
"If you dwell over one loss and have that carry over into the next games you're not going to do too well," Maust said. "You've got to be able to bounce back and be resilient." 
The Wolverines (21-16. 5-7 Big Ten) are 4-7 in their last 11 games. They beat Michigan State 9-2 Sunday. Ryan LaMarre leads the Wolverines in batting average (.364) and on-base percentage (.473). He also has hit 10 home runs and has 45 RBis. The team as a whole hits .296 
"The thing about Michigan is they have a solid athletic program," Maust said. "It starts with the fact that you have to respect your oppo­nent. But also, beyond respect you can't give them anything else." 
The Wolverines have been at home for 12 of their last 14 games and only had to travel to East Lansing to face the Spartans for the other two. After a series at Cincinnati, Notre Dame was home this weekend and will travel to Louisville next weekend. 
Maust said that to be suc­cessful against a tough oppo­nent like Michigan, the team needed to break the game into nine one-inning games. That way the task seems more manageable. 
"They have good hitters, good pitchers, and it may look like it's too much to handle, but if you break it down and focus on the process and try to take it inning by inning, break that big thing up, then it's very ... achievable," he said. 
To continue the success the Irish had Saturday, Pollock said, the team must play loose. 
"The pressure was off on Saturday. We lost 19-3, what's the worst that could happen?" he said. "The pressure's off, have fun, enjoy yourself. If you have fun I'm sure you're going to be winning a bunch of games." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

and 18th holes to end the round at one-over and tied
Holt 

for the individual lead. continued from page 24 "She played really well, but finished bogey-bogey," 
"Three scores were good," Holt said about Maunu's Holt said. "But an 80 negat­round. "She wasn't very ed the good three rounds." happy, but she still played a 
Halfway  solid round."  
through round  the on  'Three scores were  0 t h e r notable scores  
Monday, play was suspended due to weath­er. After the  good, but an So negated the good three rounds.,,  for the Irish included jun­ior Annie Brophy's  
players  got  round of one­ 
back out on the course, the Irish weren't  Susan Holt Irish coach  over to finish in a tie for eighth after  
able to regain  two  rounds  
the momentum  and freshman  

they had possessed earlier Becca Huffer shot two-over in the day. Senior captain to finish in eighth after two Lisa Maunu was one-under rounds. until finishing the round Holt said the team realized with two bogeys on the 17th the opportunity they missed 
Big East 

continued from page 24 
Dustin Zhang, shot five­over or worse in each of the other rounds. 
"We played a little better, but we still can't get a fourth score that really helps us out," Kubinski said. "We've had to count 77 in the first two rounds and in this kind of event you'd like a 73 or 74 at worst. We're just not quite getting four guys to put up the numbers for us." 
The Irish will finish the tournament tomorrow, and with a low scoring differen­
tial between the teams ahead of them, they have a good chance to finish strong. 
Kubinski would not rule out his team's chance to make a run at the top spot. 
"[The scores are] really bunched up second through fifth, so it's a real opportu­nity for us to move into sec­ond tomorrow," he said. "We've come back from 12 down, and granted we're down a lot more than that, but if you get three or four guys who can shoot in the 60s, you can make up a lot of ground." 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
on Monday to catch up to Louisville, and that it might be hurting the team's morale. 
"[The team was] in posi­tion to get about eight shots back," Holt said. "Morale isn't very good right now because of the weak finish." 
The Irish have a chance in the final round Tuesday to catch Louisville and claim back-to-hack Big East titles. With Louisville's average performance on Monday, the Irish are well within striking distance. 
"We didn't expect them to leave the door open for us," Holt said. "We've got a good round in us, we just hope that it can come out tomor­row." 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 


THE 
BSERVER 

Join the can1pus organization that brings the news to Notre Dan1e and Saint Mary's campuses every day. 
We're looking for ne\.v staff in all departments. 
Join The Observer staff. Contact us today. 

L------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
News Madeline Buckley (mbuckley@nd.edu) Ashley Charnley (achamOl@saintmarys.edu) 
Sports Matt Gamber (mgamber@nd.edu) Scene Jess Shaffer Qshaffel@nd.edu) Photo Ian Gavlick (igavlick@nd.edu) 
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April 21, 2009 
Updergraduate Male Athlete of the Year; 
1. Carl Andersen 

o Senior Carl Andersen, one ofthe top basketball players on campus, led Morrissey Manor to their second straight lnterhall Basketball title and undefeated season with 17 points in the championship game. Carl's athleticism and ability to shoot it from anywhere make him a tough opponent and an impressive player to watch. In addition to playing basketball. broomball and volleyball, Carl also plays lnterhall and CoRee football where he is one of the league leading wide receivers for both his lnterhall and CoRee football teams. 
2. Alex Klupcbak 

o Alex Klupchak, a senior from O'Neill Halt, can be found most afternoons playing several hours of pick-up basketball at Rolfs. Alex has aconfidence and intensity that can be matched by few other players and his quickness and ability to both drive the lane and shoot it from deep make him aconstant threat. As captain and leading scorer of his CoRee and lnterhall basketball teams, he led them both to appearances in the championship games, putting up 23 points in the lnterhall Final. When not on the hardwood, Alex plays wide receiver on O'Neill's lnterhall Football team and referees countless basketball and football games. 
3. Casey McGushin 

o Casey "Pistol" McGushin is the captain and leading scorer for Sorin's lnterhall Basketball team where his driving ability and accuracy from deep behind the arc make him the Otter's number one threat. In addition, Pistol plays quarterback on the Otters' lnterha!l Football team and is the captain of the Little Giants flag football team who had an undefeated regular season, beating opponents by an average of 52 points. 
Updergraduatg Female Athlete oftbe year; 
1. Kathleen Stanley 

a. Kathleen Stanley helped McGlinn Hall capture the !nterhall Women's Basketba!l & Flag Football championships. McGlinn upset the top seeded Purple Weasels ofPW in a41-33 victory to 
win the lnterhall Women's Basketball title. In addition, Stanley plays in multiple soccer leagues, lnterhall Lacrosse, and was amember ofDVD Late Night who made an appearance in the CoRee basketball final. 
2. MaryForr 

a. Mary Forr was amajor component of Pasquerilla West's Flag Footbali team as their top wide receiver. She also led the Purple Weasels to the number one seed in the Women's lnterhall 
Basketball tournament where they fell to McGlinn in the championship game. In addition, Mary was akey contributor on several CoRee teams including Flag Football, Basketball, and Broomball. 
3. )enni Gargula 

a. lenni Gargula plays quarterback fur Welsh Family's lnterhall Flag football team that lost the championship game in the final minutes. Over the past three years, she has aperfect record 
in the regular season as the Whirlwind's quarterback. jenni also brings an unmatched intensity to the point gu.ard position on the Whirlwipds'lnterhall Basketball team. Graduate Male Athlete of the year; 
1. Matt Hamel 

a. After losing on penalty kicks in the GFS Soccer championship game, Matt Hamel helped the Insurance Waivers capture the CoRee Basketball title en route to an undefeated season. Hamel 
brings an unmatched intensity and determination to all sports as the leading scorer of the GFS basketball team, Flannel. and astrong defender on his CoRee Soccer team. In addition to playing basketball, soccer, broomball and volleyball, Hamel is one of the top officials for both soccer and basketball. 
2. Braden Turner 

a. Braden Turner represents MSA in avariety of sports including basketball. flag football, and volleyball. He was captain of the MSA flag football team and amember ofthe MSA soccer team that lost in the finals on penalty kicks. 
3. David Standa 

a. As captain of his self-titled team, Dave Standa led his team to the GFS baseball title with avictory over CEGEOS. Dave played GFS basketball on Team Flannel who made it to the semifinals before losing to the eventual champions. He is abo akey contributor to his league leading Floor Hockey team, Threat Level Midnight, who has beaten their opponents by an· 
average of 1 0 goals. Graduate Female A!blete gfthe ¥ear; 
1. Susan Pinnick 

a. Susan Pinnick represented the MSA program well, playing as many sports as she could. She was a member of MSA soccer team that lost the championship game on penalty kicks and a key component of her undefeated CoRee soccer team. In addition, Susan played basketball, flag football, and volleyball. 
2. Chrissy Vaughn 

a. . Chrissy Vaughn was the captain of th.e Mighty Mendoza GFS sm:certeatri that won their league. She always brought enthusiasm and leadership to her team as akey contributor to their successful season. 
3. Brittany Baron 

a. Brittany Baron is the leader of MSA athletics as the captain of both their soccer and basketball teams. She was amember ofthe CoRee championship basketball team, Insurance Waivers, 
and the GFS soccer runner-up as welt as flag football and volleyball. Team oftbe year; 
1. lnterhall Men's Basketball Champions: Morrissey Manor Basketball 

a. By averaging 65 points agame, Morrissey Manor completed an undefeated season and claimed the number one seed in the Men's !nterhall Basketball Championship. Lt.'<! by senior Captain Carl Andersen's 17 points, they were able to defend their lnterhall basketball title with a 69-62 victory over O'Neill Hall. 
2. CoRee Flag Football Champions: Weapons of Mass Destruction 

a. Weapons of Mass Destruction struggled in the regular season. but a 2·2 record was just enough to get them into the playoffs where their season took off. They upset both the number one and number uvo seeds en route to the CoRee Flag Football Championship. 
3. CoRee Basketball Champions: Insurance Waivers 

a. Joe Marnell, Matt Hamel. &Joe DeMott led the Insurance Waivers to an undefeated season. Averaging 71 points agame to their opponents' 38, they captured the CoRee Basketball 
Championship over DVD Late Night with a71·30 victory. Game oftbe year: 
1. Men's Interhall Hockey Championship: Siegfried vs. Stanford 

a. The #4 seed Siegfried met the #1 seeded Stanford Griffins in the lnterhall Men's Hockey championship after both teams had to go into OTto win their semifinal games. The Siegfried Ramblers pulled offthe 3-1 upset over the heavily favored Stanford Griffins to take home the championship trophy. 
2. Men's lnterhall Football Championship: Siegfried vs. Keenan 

a. The top-seeded Siegfried Ramblers defeated the seventh·seeded Knight~ of Keenan Hall14·13 to capture the Men's Interhall football Championship trophy and complete an undefeated 
season. Despite the inspired play of the Knight's wide receiver, james Zenker, Siegfried was able to seal the victory when they stopped Keenan's attempt at atwo-point conversion with just over two minutes to play. 
3. GFS Soccer Championship: Team MSA vs. Pick Up United 

a. Forty minutes wasn't enough to settle the GFS Soccer Championship as the game went into overtime tied 2-2. Top seeded Pick Up United pulled out the victory over third seeded Team 
MSA in Penalty Kicks 5·3. fags ofthe Year; 
1. Zabm Hockey 

a. Defending lnterhall Hockey Champion, Zahm House, could always he found with alarge contingent of fans including fans in costumes of all sorts. Even as the team started to struggle, their fan base stayed strong during the eady morning hours at the }t\CC !ce Rink 
2. Welsh Flag Football 

a. Welsh Fam was never short of fans, especially for Flag Football. Even Father Greg never missed agame. It's hard not to play well when you have the fan support that the Whirlwinds do, cheering them on to an undefeated regular season and an appearance in the Internal! Championship game. 
3. Purple Rain 

a. GFS Flag Football team, Purple Rain, alw<1ys had aton of support from their fans, even bringing a mascot. The fans for Purple Rain stayed strong even as the weather turned cold and rainy for the playoffs where the team lost in a hard fought semHlnal game to Palin's Spawn. 
Voting is open until midnight, Sunday, April 26th Check out http://web.recsports.nd.edujrecspy/index.php 

Tuesday, April21, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
Hal1aha... that's one idea. Looks like next Tuesday it is. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.._,.~~~~ 
~-=+~:.:.+~:.t 
.:,;+#;.;+;+~:.j 
~~;.;r,=+:+.:+=-F--1 
68 Period of time 69 Solo 
Down Delighted 2 Prego 
competitor 3 "Yeah, right'" 4 "To thine own 
_be true" 5 Victimize 6 Ado 7 Geographical 
datum 8 Czech, e.g, but not a Hungarian 9 Ferrara ruling 
family 10 Ad exhortation 11 Status 12 Good times 13 Numbskull 21 Transgress 22 Kentucky Derby 
prize 25 Sand trap, e.g. 26 Barely making, 
with •out• 27 Defunct 28 Prison 
population 29 Needing a doctor's attention 30 ~ ··-· Fly Now" 
("Rocky" theme) 31 Tummy muscles 32"_won't!" 33 Establishment 
with a revolving mirrored ball 
36 Forrest _, 1994 Oscar­winning role 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puule by Richltd Cbis:holm 
37 Schoolyard retort  48 First name in  
38 Fed. property  soul  
overseer  52 Play dates?  
39 Publicize  53 Surmounting  


40 Novelist Deighton  54_ bene 55 Down-to-earth  famously played by Bill Clinton on "The Arsenio  
45 Available  56 Roughly  Hall Show·  
46 "Already?"  57 Land that's saluted in this  61 One catching a  
47 "Rubbish!"  puzzle  ram's eye  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554, Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilaxword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords tor young solvers: nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CEl.EnRITlf$ !lORN ON TJUS OAY: Joey tawrence. :13; Cam~en T>k<:lra, 37; Jessica Lau~c,ti(); Ryan O'Neal, t\8 
Uappy Birthday: You can t>ffer your services bm dml't let anyone lake a<lvanta!!e ol you. Any uncertainlY f(!!nrdmg wlmt y\lu are trying to nre<•mpli~b should he a w:uniu~t sigtml to avuid taki1111 on re:>potl,ihllitie.s that will tie Ufl ton mudt of yourtilne Don't W\lfl)' ab<)ut cbaugin~t ymll' mind or yom· dirt'<:lkm mid ·Stream. Look out for your own i.nterests Your wunbers!lre5, 14. 19,2J.JJ,.i4,42 
ARIES IMaffh 21-AprU 1\J): J11c more emphasis you pur on your wolt arul ~elliu~ along wuh rollca)!ue~ vr mhers, the easier it will he to put emotio1~11 matt~rs hduntl you Work on whal you can change in~tead of lamenting owr 'Wmetbin~ over wlucl1 yon haw no mil· tn>l. 3 SUU:'S 
1AHR{)S !April :ro..May 20): Dou'tgel all wmmd np lx-causc sontemtc i~ uying to pull smndhiug over on yon. Go to the SOI"cc and you will gctllre facts and figu~s ym1ue.:d to make the ri~11 choice. A 1110ve may he necessary. 3 'tars 
Gli:l\;fiNl (May 21-June lOl: Go after your dreams and focus on the tbi.ug~ yoo feel pas ~iouatdy about. You will disc<wcr how powerful and effective you cau be. Yon will have tbe wbdmu and wtwrewithal !o face any opposil.iotl Play by tbc mles. 3 •tars 
CANCER (.June 21-JuJy 22!: Give and take will be essemial if you want to Jmtkc Jlfllg· ress.llon'! avoid the tmth or bdicvc what you hear from sou!COnc tryiug lo convince yvu to try son~<.'thing new Find out the facts before you r:et involved. 4 stars 
LF.O UuJy 2.'-Aug. 22): Try nullo disagree wiih anyone who can influence your P"rsonal or professional life. Maintain a positron that allows you to change your uund or your direc· tiou at tbe last minme, if ut:cessary,A love coum:ction appears to he taking <>11 a different llavor. 2 sliii"S 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. :12): If you are bones! and strai$hlforwanl about your n«.•th us well a~ what you have to offer, you cautn.'lke a deal that wt!l work '''oud<:rs for you. Don't let a jealous peer stand in your way, Don't get itwolved in mmors or ~ossip. 5 stars 
UBRA (Sept. 2..'\.0ct. :12): You can make a !iu:mcial deal that will help }'011 with prop crty, dome~tic changes qr a coolfaet. An imw•'ative way of dcllling with peers, frieuds or children will help you brillll others around to tlunllin, your way. 5 stars 
S(~ORPlO (Od, 2.\.Nov, 21}: Keep oulop of what everyon<' around you is "'}''ug and doing. Someone is not being forthright wnb you abom his or berdireclions. Make a few 
pewnal changes that will disguhe what y011 plan to do in tl1e future. 3 stars 
SAGfTIARIUS (Nov. l2•Dee.lll: You can trick most of tho people vou talk to but, when it comes to the ones who know yon well, you may foce a ru<k a1\·akcnin!\ Don't play "-itll ftre or you will get burned. Yon mustn't use emotional tactics in business.~~ stars 
CAPRICORN (ike. :U.Jan, 191: Don't let love ~crew vou up when vou haw so much 011 your plak and the ability to get ahead professionally. firuwdally and domestically. Make: your plau.s and stick to tlrem. In the eud, evetyolk' y,·iJl re."llize you have ma<le the ril\ht rboiees. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 2fl·Feb. l8J: Argument> will no! t>riug about a S<>!utiou <>r F•'i<•lution. 
Be hvucst witll yvur,;clf as wdl as others if y<>u want to con.e up with a workabk idea. 
Pmtect yonr """'' and your loved''"'"· 1 stors 
PISCES (feb. 19-l\tareh l{)): A dmlkugc can t1m1 into something very lucrative Put 
ymn lreart into wnwthinf:\ yon eujoy doiu!l. Aprofcs.<;ional p.ain can be the start of greater 
recognition, bul!!el your facts slr:!i~bt. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You :~re solid, pmt1ic:1l :md nor afraid 10 worl hard for what you wan! 
You are intcrest~d in foreiltu cultures and diffcrt'lll !ifcstvks and phiiOS<Jphi~. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TREES 
I [J 

WORMAR 
I I r IJ 

Ans: A [I I I ]"(X I J I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) GAILY JEWEL NOBODY YELLOW
Yesterday's IJumbles: Answer: What his wife did when the game went into 
overtime -"BOILED" 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Atgirion and Jeff Knurek 

FA.VOI'<£::0 BY THE:: 
REPORTE::R, BUT 
NOT BY THE:: DRY CI..E::A.N£::1<. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 

Comprehend 6 Contemptible 10 Shade of many 
a swimming pool basin 14 Surgeon's tool 15 Web addresses 16 Parts of a tea set 17 Sprightly 18 Politician's goal 19 Give the heave-ho 
20 1940s hit radio show featuring the bartender Archie 
23 Salad additive 24 Marveled audibly (at} 28 1939 James Joyce novel 33 Second-smallest state: Abbr. 34 Instrument held with two hands 
35 Pakistani leader. 1977-88 
36 1960s sitcom about a group of castaways 
41 G.L entertainers 42 X ...... xylophone 43 Work unit 441946 Bing 
Crosby hit 49 B!og messages 50 Sculler's item 51 1960s sitcom set 
ina P.O.W. 
camp 59 On the briny 62 ·Am _ late?" 
63 cotta 64 Wimbledon 
surface 65 Head for 66 Jew traditionally 
dressed in a black coat and hat 
67Canned 

www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
You should probably get some ofthat work done in advance. 
So it turns outl have 2 papers due and 2 tests next Wednesday. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, April21, 2009 
page 24 
BASEBALL 
Heated rivalry 
Irish begin home and home series vs. UM 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Writer 
The animosity between the two teams certainly doesn't run as deep as it does in foot­ball, or in this day and age hockey, but junior pitcher Eric Maust, for one, hates Michigan. 
"You don't see any signs in here that say we hate Michigan, but I guarantee if you ask anybody nobody real­ly likes Michigan," Maust said. "I can't stand them. There's a few teams that I really cannot stand at all, and Michigan and USC are up there, easily in the top three." 
The Irish travel to face the Wolverines tonight at 7:05 
p.m. at the Wilpon Baseball Complex in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Irish junior pitcher Eric Maust throws a pitch against VIllanova April 4 In a 9-3 victory. The see MICHIGAN/page 21 Irish swept the Wildcats in a three-game series. 

MEN'S GOLF 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Tea111 eyes final round co111eback 
By ALEX WEST SportS Wrirer 

Normally, cutting into a 16­stroke lead in the Big East championship can be looked at as a successful day of play, but the Irish really felt that they could have done a little more damage in Monday's second round. 
Despite the feeling of a missed opportunity, they were still able to cut No. 19 Louisville's 16-stroke lead down to just 12 strokes after firing a team best 298. 
Coach Susan Holt, although happy with her team's per­formance, said she knew her team left some opportunities out on the course. 
see HOLT/page 21 

Scodro, Fortner top-ten individually at Big East chan1pionship 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Wrirer 
The Irish struggled to find consistency from the team as 
a whole over the first two
t days of the Big East champi­onships, in which they find themselves in fifth place with just one round remaining. "We just need a little bit 
more from our five," Irish Coach Jim Kubinski said. "We felt good coming in, like we had five guys that could keep us in play, but honestly we've only had two or three good scores in the first two days." 
Notre Dame posted a seven-over 295 on day one and a four-over 292 on the second day of the tourna­ment, leaving them 19 strokes behind the leader, Louisville, but only eight strokes behind seeond-place Marquette. 

Freshman Max Scodro and junior Doug Fortner have led the Irish thus far, posting solid rounds early in the tournament. Seodro has been under par on both days, starting the tournament with 
ND SOFTBALL 
Bargar takes mound vs. NU 
By CHRIS MASOUD SportS Wrirer 
Normally a respite from Big East play is a godsend for a team that just finished a seven-game road trip undefeated and uninjured. But as the Irish host Northwestern today at Melissa Cook Stadium, the Wildcats will be an unwel­come presence this late in the season. 
Northwestern (27-9, 12-2 Big Ten) has won 16 of its last 18 games, good enough for second in the Big Ten and No. 7 overall in the nation according to the ESPN.com/USA Softball Poll. The Wildcats are coming off a split against Purdue last weekend, with scores of 0-2 and 10-8, respectively. 
Not to be outdone, the Irish (31-13, 13-3 Big East) 
see SOFTBALL/page 19 a one-under 71 on Sunday and then following that Monday with a two-under 70, putting him at three-under and in a tie for third overall. Fortner is currently in sole possession of eighth place after shooting a one-over 73 on the first day followed by a one-under 71 on day two. 


"[Scodro] and [Fortner] have done a fantastic job," 
Kubinski said. "Both of them have a chance to win the tournament tomorrow as individuals." 
Beyond that, the Irish have not gotten much help. Sophomores Jeff Chen and Connor Alan-Lee each con­tributed a two-over, 74, but they, along with sophomore 
see BIG EAST/page 21 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Holla Back to face Main Street in finals 
By ALEX WEST and 
NATHANIEL LEE 
Sporrs Wrirers 
Halle! uj ah Hoi! a Back defeated a resilient and tal­ented Kramer Properties team 21-17 Monday night to move onto the final game of the Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
Early in the game, Kramer and Ilallelujah traded bas­kets. Kramer was leading 9­8, relying mostly on jump shots. The game changed when freshman Joseph Fauria dunked over Kramer's Joe Marnell to tie the game and fire up his teammates. 
"I, Joe Fauria, had this monstrous dunk on Marnell," Fauria commented after the game. "If anybody wants to bring a picture of that 'posterization' to me in St. Ed's, I will sign it for them." 
Hallelujah lead 11-10 at halftime, and was never able to open a lead greater than four the entire game. A free throw by Dayne Crist sealed the game for Hallelujah as they moved onto the finals. 
Fauria went on to compli­ment all of his teammates efforts in the game, includ­ing fellow football players Dayne Crist and Jonas Gray, as well as Pat Kelly and Griffin Naylor. 
"We all played well," Fauria said. "We're bringin' gangsta back to Catholicism." 
Kramer captain Joe Marnelo attributed Hallelujah's size to some of their success. 
"They were a lot bigger than us," Marnelo said. "We 
see BOOKSTORE/page 20 










