
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ESTEEM graduate program welcomes first class 
Students in the engineering, science and business colleges work to bring new technology to commerical market 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The Engineering, Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Excellence Master's Program (ESTEEM) welcomed its first class this fall, just over a year after it was conceived as a joint ven­ture graduate program between the Colleges of 
Science, Engineering and Business. 
The program seeks to train scientists and engineers in the skills needed to bring new technology to the commercial market, according to Bob Alworth, an associate dean in the Colleges of Science and Engineering. 
"There's wonderful science and engineering that's being created," Alworth said. "The faster we can get that to do good for society, the better society is." 
The ESTEEM program's curriculum seeks to give sci­ence and engineering stu­dents, many of whom do not have a background in entre­preneurship or business, the tools they need to take tech­nology from the research to the development level, Alworth said. 


Students Hayley Mohr, left, and Mariel Osetinsky enjoy traditional German food at the 2008 Okdomerfest event. This year's Okdomerfest will take place tonight at Legends. 


Annual Okdomerfest to be celebrated tonight 
By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
Many Americans ring in the autumn season with pumpkins and apple pie. Others, howev­er, turn to the ways of their German counterparts and cele­brate with lederhosen and wienerschnitzel. 
The Notre Dame German Club, along with the Student Union Board (SUB) will spon­sor its annual Okdomerfest cel­ebration tonight from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. at Legends. 
Marie! Osetinsky, a senior German major and vice presi­dent of the German Club, has been working with the Club as well as Legends since the beginning of the year to plan Okdomerfest. 
"Okdomerfest is the German Club's biggest event of the year," she said. "I can confi­dently say Okdomerfest will be one of the best events for Notre Dame students all year." 
The event, which is open and free to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty and stu­dents with a valid school iden­tification card, will serve a variety of authentic German cuisine including brats, sauer­kraut, pretzels and potato salad, senior Katy Smith, treasurer of the German Club said. Smith, along with Observer Assistant Managing 
see GERMAN/page 6 


Professors discuss '08 election, presidency 
By SCOTT ENGLERT News Writer 
The role of the United States President, especially that of President Barack Obama, along with discussion of the scope of government, remained a heated topic of discussion amongst University political scientists Tuesday afternoon. 
Notre Dame's Rooney Center for the Study of American Democracy contin­ued this discussion yesterday in a lecture "Congress and the Presidency" as a part of its conference titled "The Change Election? The 2008 Presidential Election and the Future of American Politics." 

In the first part of the lec­ture, Notre Dame associate professor of political science John Griffin addressed the relevance of a famous presi­dential quote to modern American politics. and conse­quently, its impact of the 2008 presidential election. 
"Government is not the solution to our problems, government is the problem,·· Griffin quoted former presi­dent Ronald Reagan as say­ing in 1981. 
Griffin presented a graph depicting popular opinion about the scope of govern­ment. The graph portrayed 
see ROONEY/page 4 

Twenty-eight students are currently enrolled in ESTEEM, which is a one-year graduate program that awards a Masters of Science degree. These students have strong undergraduate back­grounds in science and engi­neering, Alworth said. 
"They're not in [ESTEEM] because they're going to do research," Alworth said. 
Instead, ESTEEM students hope to work to bring researched technology to the commercial market, either for profit or non-profit ventures. 

The program was first con­ceived late in the summer of 2008 by Gregory Crawford, dean of the College of Science, Peter Kilpatrick, dean of the College of Engineering, and Carolyn 
see ESTEEM/page 6 


Expert explores peace inAfrica 
ByMEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

VIsiting fellow C..eorge Wachira, a senior Research and Policy Advisor of the Nairobi Peace Initiative­Africa, discussed the effectiveness of Truth and Reconciliation Commissions (THC) for peace building efforts in Africa in a lec­ture Tuesday night. 
The lecture, titled "Truth Overstretched? TRCs as Transitional Justice Tools in Africa," was hosted by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
A THC, Wachira said, is formu­lated to address daims of human rights violations and to assure pun­ishments for the crimes committed against victims of such injustices. 
see AFRICAlpage 3 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Print quotas depleted page 3 • Madonna album review page 12 • Men's golf wins Classic page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Love 
A person's relationship with their home­town's sports teams is the kind of thing that can be likened to a romantic relation­ship. You are there for you team through thick and thin, whether you are winning or 
l?sing. In fact. the dev?-Jared Jedick tion of the typical fan IS probably indicative of a 
Sports
stronger relationship with their hometown Production team than they have Editor with their actual wives or 
girlfriends. 
Fans incorporate their sports teams into their sense of self, and when your team wins, you win, and when it loses, you lose. The agony and joy is palpable, despite the fact that we are often reminded that it is just a game. 
And like any relationship, it can have rewards and drawbacks. 
Some fans get to go to the playoffs every year and compete for a championship, while some fans get run into the ground every year. It is the inevitability ofsports life. 
These fans can be sorted into dllferent categories. 
For some, like Yankees or Steelers fans, it's flirting with the playoffs and champi­onships every year. I will classify these fans as the "fortunates." They have no rea­son to be stressed about what is going to happen in the season, because sixty per­cent of the time they are going to win. They are never out ofthe running until the end ofthe year, and every so often they get to taste the joys ofwinning a championship. 
But these fans can still find reason for complaining. 
These fans wonder: will former Cy Young winner CC Sabathia live up to the hype and lead the team to the World Series? or will our team win our fourth or fifth championship in the past ten years? 
Then there are the "middle-of-the-road­ers," who usually do not compete but every five years or so make a run at a champi­onship. These fans get to enjoy the benefit.'> of"Money Ball" and see how good man­agement both on the field and in the front office can lead to a product worth spending money on tickets to see. These are your Minnesota Twins or Tampa Bay Rays, and they are able to create legitimate underdog stories that can capture the imagination, despite not always being in the race every year. 
And then there are the "unfortunates." These are the poor, hapless souls whose sports experience is an endless agony. Year after year they rebuild, and year after year they fail to compete. This category can be likened to your Cleveland Browns or your Kansas City Royals. These teams have inept coaching, inept front office execu­tives, and players who cannot figure out how to play as a team. As a fan in this cat­egory, you only taste the agony of defeat. 
Ifour teams always disappoint those of us fans who are "unfortunates," why do we keep coming back for more? The answer can only be found in another anal­ogy. 
We are like people trapped in abusive relationships. We keep getting hurt and disappointed again and again, and yet we cannot stop coming back for more. We are often even proud ofour failures, saying our city is more championship starved than your city. So why do we keep coming back for more? 
It is for the hope, the forlorn hope, that someday, somehow, the stars will align, the coach will be perfect, the players will come together perfectly, and all the "fortunates" will choke, and maybe, just maybe, we can win. It is a dream, but it is our dream, and we are going to keep hoping for it. Always. 
Contact Jered Jedick at jjedick@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOUR LIFE COULD BE A YOUTUBE VIDEO, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 




Sarah Spieler  Jordan Matulis  Johanna Kirsch  Ariella Phillips  Elizabeth Andrews  Zachary Angus  
sophomore Paquerilla West  sophomore Howard  senior McGlinn  sophomore McGlinn  sophomore Pasquerilla West  sophom(Jre Keough  
'"Can I have yo number?' Self explanatory. "  "Justin Bieber music video 'One Time' becuase he's my number one. "  "ND vs. Washington, Golden Tate flipping. "  "Otters holding hands. YouTube it and you'll see why. "  "'Total Eclipse ofthe Heart' video. It's weird yet it makes so much sense. Just like ... me. "  "Potter Puppet pals. Because I'm full of wizard angst."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Notre Dame junior Dustin Zhang watches his tee shot as the rain begins to fall during the Fighting Gridiron Golf Classic at the Warren Golf Course Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Aussie race fans limited to 24 cans of beer daily 
MELBOURNE -Adult fans at one of Australia's most pop­ular motor sport races, the Bathurst 1000, will be limited to one "slab" of beer a day ­or 24 375 ml cans-as police focus on reducing alcohol­related crime. 
The 24-can rule would also be placed on mixed drinks for the V8 car race starting Thursday which draws thou­sands to the rural town of Bathurst in eastern New South Wales state, the NSW police said Tuesday. 
But more restrained specta­tors would be able to slake their thirst, ifnot their craving for alcohol, with up to 36 cans of low or mid-strength beer. 

Wme lovers must make do with no more than four liters of cask wine per day and combinations of the options would not be allowed, the police statement said. 
Irish school children told to provide own toilet paper 
DUBLIN -Irish parents struggling to buy schoolbooks and uniforms in the face of a deep recession may now have to worry about sending their children to school with a toilet roll as well as a packed lunch. 
Pupils at a primary school in the southern county ofCork are being asked to bring their own toilet paper to school to help save money, one of the starkest examples yet of the death of Ireland's "Celtic Tiger" economy. 
"The letter was sent out just as a way of balancing books here in the school and not intended as a demand," said Catherine O'Neill, principal at St John's Girls National School. 
O'Neill said the request was made because of cuts to gov­ernment grants for books and computers. She added that parents were responding well. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
U.l :::1: 
~ 
1.1.1 
3: 





0,,,,,,, 
0,,,,,,,
....1 

,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,,
cc 
(,) 
0 

..... HIGH 57 HIGH 47 HIGH 56 HIGH 53 LOW 44 LOW 44 LOW 49 LOW 37 IN BRIEF 
David Foster will deliver a lecture titled "Contesting a Revolution: Raymundo Gleyzer's Documentary Mexico: La Revolucion Congelada" today at 4:30 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center in room C-103. 
The New Playwrights Workshop will perform "Cargo" and "Scattered Voices" tonight at the Philbin Studio Theater of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $5 for stu­dents, $12 for faculty and 10 for staff and seniors. The perform­ances will run from Oct. 6 to Oct. 11. 
The Blue and Gold Mechatronic Football will be held tonight at 8 p.m. in Room 356 of Fitzpatrick Hall. Free pizza and soda, as well as infor­mation about the 2010 Chicago Auto Show will be provided. 
Junot Diaz will be reading from his novel "The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao" tonight from 8 to 9:30 p.m. at the Decio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free but ticketed. 
The Notre Dame Men's Hockey team will play Alabama-Huntsville Friday at 
7:35 p.m. at the Joyce Center Ice Rink. Ticket information is available at 631-7356. 
The 121st Annual Sorin College Talent Show will take place on Friday at 8 p.m. in front of Sorin Hall. The event is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
e 

HIGH 48 HIGH 49 LOW 36 LOW 36 
Atlanta 78 1 51 Boston 62 I 47 Chicago 59 I 49 Denver 70 I 54 Houston 87 I 77 Los Angeles 71 I 54 Minneapolis 60 I 54 New York 65 150 Philadelphia 68 I 50 Phoenix 85 I 65 Seattle 64 I 45 St. Louis 66 I 51 Tampa 92 I 76 Washington 72 I 52 
Wednesday, October 7, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Print quotas dvvindling quickly 
Students, faculty weigh in one-Reserves, increase in printed assignments 
By JIM FERLMANN 
News Writer 
The increased use of e­Reserves and online reading materials has become a major debate topic on campus this year as students find their print quo­tas, which are supposed to last for the entire academic year, depleting much faster than expected. 
E-Reserve use has steadily increased from 309 courses in the 2002-03 year to 407 courses in the 2007-08 year, Collette Mak, head of Resources Access and Delivery at the Hesburgh library, said. In in the Fall 2008 semester alone, almost 300 .courses were making use of e­Reserves and other online bases for material such as Concourse, she said. 
While some see the increased use of online-based work to be an unnecessary burden on stu­dents and professors, others see the expanding system as useful and practical. 
"We fulfill a service for the pro­fessors," Mak, who oversees the e-reserves,said. 
'The most important thing we do is to actively search to see if the articles are being reproduced under the Fair Use Policy. If not, then the library pays for the pub­lishing fees in order to reproduce the documents," she said. 
Although the increase in print­ing might seem wasteful, Mak said the larger scale use of University printers in fact is a part of the University's efforts to "go green." 
"The expansion of e-Reserves has also furthered Notre Dame's mission towards sustainability," she said. "All the pages of all the course packets were going to be printed whether students read them or not, and it was environ­mentally unsound to print course packets that not all students would be reading fully. Now what is being printed is what stu­dents have read, and that will save a lot of paper in the long 
run." 

The amount of paper that still needs to be printed, however, still has many students concerned. 
"My print quota is at about $70 right now," said senior Jessica Technow, "It seems to be deplet­ing a lot more quickly this year as compared to this time last year." 
She attributes her depleted quota to the increase in online materials in all of her classes . 
"As it stands right now, I guess I'm okay, but as my print quota gets closer to zero I'll have more of a negative reaction," she said. "I definitely think that increasing the print quota would be a good way to take care of the issue." 
Professors, on the other hand, see the increased use of e­Reserves as a sign ofthe times. 
"Things are tough on everyone right now," political science pro­fessor Tara Lavallee said. "When I first started teaching at Notre Dame, I was able to assign course packets that ran for about $10 apiece. Now with the copy­right infringement laws and the huge increase in course packet costs, they're just no longer a viable teaching tool. I have to put up the material on the Internet now." 
Lavallee also said the best pos­sible solution is for students to simply read the materials in PDF form, avoiding the need to print the pages out. 
"However, there are simply some things that need to be printed out, mostly PowerPoints for my classes," she said. "PowerPoints are the best forms of information for students these days, but they aren't very printer friendly. If I don't put material in PowerPoint, people complain about it being tough to read. If I do, people complain about print­ing costs. It's a catch-22." 
"Putting reading materials online has really helped out with my classes," history professor D'Arcy Boulton said. "Over time, most of the books I used in my courses were taken out of print. I used to solve the problem by put­ting the relevant readings in course packets, but when they started costing a student $60 and up, online materials became an excellent substitute." 
Boulton said an increase in print quotas has been a possibili­ty for students who seek it. 
"I've discovered that ifstudents petition their professors to increase the print quota due to increased course loads, and ifthe professor agrees with it, then the professors can get [the Office of Information and Technologies] to increase the students' print quo­tas." 
Regardless of opinions on the increased use of e-Reserves, the issue will only get more pertinent as students see their print quotas continue to decrease. 
"It's sort of ironic, really," Mak said, "Back before the advent of e-Reserves, students were clam­oring for online printable materi­als because the price of course packets was killing them. It seems we've come full circle now." 
Contact Jim Ferlmann at jferlman@nd.edu 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

BOOK REMAINDER SALE
•

re-main·der (noun) : a book sold at a reduced price re•duced (verb): up to 50% offregular prices (but wait, there~s more••. ) PLUS YOUR DISCOUNT!* 



Business Computer 

/ 
Y.«o:->>.--.,.,-·.<-·''"-*-'<"""" "' 
/

'­
Fiction/Literature Sociology 
Art Biography 
Education Engineering 
Catholicistn lecture celebrates C.S. Levvis 
By TESS CNANTOS News Writer 
Although C.S. Lewis made fun of Catholics as a teen, he was actually incredibly close to being Catholic himself, associate professor of Literature and Writer-in-Residence at Ave Maria University Joseph Pearce said in a lecture Tuesday. 
Pearce's lecture was the third of four in the "Close to Catholic: A Celebration of Kindred Spirits" series, sponsored by the Center for Ethics and Culture. 
Pearce has a close personal con­nection tu Lewis' story. Both con­verted after reading G.K. Chesterton's writings -Pearce from agnosticism tg Catholicism and Lewis from atheism to Anglicanism. 
Having published "C.S. Lewis and the Catholic Church" in 2003, Pearce is considered a C.S. Lewis expert. 
Pearce began his lecture with a story. Russell Kirk, a prominent American conservative thinker, was once asked, ""If C.S. Lewis were alive today, would he be Catholic?' Kirk responded, 'Probably.'" 
Pearce traced the four phases of the Catholic literary revival, which began with Wordsworth and Coleridge and concluded with "the Inklings," a club of Oxford profes­sors that included Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien. 
The conundrum, Pearce said, is that Lewis was not Catholic. 
"Lewis saw himself as resolutely on the side of orthodox theology and as a great enemy of theological modernism," Pearce said. Lewis saw theological modernism as a poor dilution of Christianity, he explained. 
"He was a great ally of Chesterton's view that orthodoxy is 

· something dynamic that changes hearts, changes minds and changes society." 
Pearce said Tolkien attributed Lewis' steadfast Anglicanism to his patriotic roots, since he was born in 

Africa 
continued from page 1 
After the post-apartheid TRC in South Africa met successfully, other such commissions have begun to develop in several other African countries, he said. 
Wachira's current work at the Ktoc Institute focuses on analyzing the ways in which organizations, including TRCs, can work to imple­ment social change. He described his mission as acting as "a practi­tioner of peace building," under­standing the voices of villagers in order to represent their expecta­tions. 
Wachira said skepticism is grow­ing about the benefits of the com­missions. He said they are rumored to be effective, yet many African villagers claim the organizations are simply "crying commissions" that listen to their stories without acting upon them. 
"If you are going to do nothing about making someone cry about their loss, why bother?" he quoted historically Protestant Northern Ireland. 

"If you asked Tolkien why Lewis never became Catholic, he's answer you in three words," Pearce said. "The Ulsterior motive." Ulster is another name for Northern Ireland. 
As a teen at boarding school in England, the atheist Lewis wrote home to his father about "the crazy Papists and popery" of the Anglican High Church, but it was there that he first thought religion could have substance. 
Lewis served in World War I and he first encountered Chesterton while recovering at a hospital in France. Chesterton's "Everlasting Man" showed Christ as the center of history. Reading this view of Christianity was "a major milestone on Lewis's path back to Christian belief." 
Lewis began to believe in God, but "he didn't much like God" since he saw God as a vivisecting, con­trolling being, Pearce said. 
The final crucial step in Lewis' conversion was a conversation with 
J .R.R. Tolkien, whose love of mythology had originally made the two men friends. 
"Lewis said that myths are lies," Pearce said. 
Christianity, meanwhile, is itself a myth "but it's the true myth, with God Himself as the storyteller," he said. 
Shortly after this conversation, Lewis converted to Anglicanism. 
Later in his life, Lewis attended the sacrament of confession, referred to his love for "the Blessed Sacrament" and repeatedly wrote about his belief in Purgatory. 
Lewis never converted, but he wrote on his deathbed that he expected to be in Purgatory soon. 
"To return to the Russell Kirk question, 'Is C.S. Lewis a Catholic?"' Pearce said, "I would say, if he's in purgatory, he is [Catholic] now." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
one anonymous villager as saying. 
Wachira became involved in his work after his father was arrested and detained in his native Kenya without a trial for three years. He encouraged a greater connection between the expectations of vil­lagers, who stand as the main ben­eficiaries of the commissions, and the actual results of the work of TRCs. 
"Perhaps we need to draw a line between being victim-focused and victim-dominated," Wachira said. 
TRCs, said Wachira, ought not to focus on avoiding undesirable situ­ations but rather to formulate tools that can help publicly confront the ugly past in order to rebuild society in the future claims. 
In order to begin to achieve the goals laid out by Truth and Reconciliation Commissions, Wachira also advised defining the unique functions of a TRC as well as a coming to a better under­standing of the expectations and needs ofthe people it serves. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoylell@nd.edu 
1 OR 2 COPIES OF SOME OF YOUR FAVORITE TITLES. GET THEM WHILE YOU CAN! 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
New task forces created to address issues on campus 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
At Tuesday's Council of Representatives (COR) meeting, Campus Life Council (CLC) rep­resentatives announced addi­tional task forces that will address specific issues central Grant Schmidt said. 

The Disciplinary Records Committee will be working with the Office of Residence Life and Housing to recommend striking minor infractions from a stu­dent's record that occurred during his or her first year, given that the student had no 
subsequent viola­
tions. 

to campus life. When applying
'This is modeled after 
The new task to graduate
several other 
forces will schools, students include a universities that give often find them­Student Legal selves negatively
students the 
Services affected by minor

opportunity to receive
Committee, an infractibns, stu­
On-Campus certain legal advice. " dent body vice and Off­president Cynthia Campus Weber said. 
Grant Schmidt 
Advertising "This is a really
student body president 
Committee and interesting topic a Disciplinary and would be R e c o r d s appreciated by Committee. many," Schmidt said. 
In a joint effort with the CLC has also created an University, the legal services advertising task force that will task force will focus on provid­analyze and address the meth­ing assistance to students who ods of marketing for events and are seeking legal council. resources on and off campus. 
"This is modeled after several "There are so many ways other universities that give stu­people advertise across cam­dents the opportunity to receive pus," campus advertising certain legal advice" on issues chairwoman Bridget such as landlord-tenant issues, Bredemann said. "But what's alcohol-related issues or civil the most efficient way to adver­matters, student body president tise to students?" 

Looking to streamline the ways student groups and organizations publicize infor­mation, the committee will examine the effectiveness of midnight e-mails and the possi­bility of a central location on campus for posting flyers and posters. 
"Other campuses have a cen­tralized spot where all the advertising goes," Schmidt said. "We still want people to have a little competition for advertising, but there are so many events and people just don:~ know how to get the word out. 
In other COR news: 

+ Schmidt discussed financial aid at Notre Dame and looked to COR members for important questions to ask the Office of Financial Aid at the next COR meeting. 
Many COR members empha­sized the need for greater transparency in the financial aid office, as well as a better understanding of what consti­tutes demonstrated need when receiving aid. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 




Rooney 
continued from page 1 
the upward jump in the pop­ularity of big government in America from 1984 to 2008. 
He said the change is a result of three principle factors, including "changing composi­tion with the growth of the Democratic party, changing effect with the new entht1siasm of big government and a shift in party identities." 
Griffin quoted Michael Barone, senior writer for U.S. News & World Report and principal coauthor of The Almanac of American Politics, noting that Americans may still not be ready for a shift to big government, 
"Americans seem to be recalling against big govern­ment when it threatens to become a reality rather than a campaign promise," he said. 
The next speaker at the lec­ture, Professor William Howell, the Sydney Stein Professor of American Politics in the Harris School of the University of Chicago, addressed presiden­tial wartime power. 
"War is a fetus of monarchy," Howell said, citing the opinions of the founding fathers. 
Howell said, however, war has often not been kind to presidents. 
"Post-World War II experi­ences have been devastating for presidents: Truman and Korea, Johnson and Vietnam, Bush and Iraq," he said. 

Despite this trend, however, war can be beneficial for a president, Howell said. 
Using several graphs, Howell demonstrated the conservative shift of Congress in the days following September 11, 2001. 
Howell shifted his dialogue to address modern politics, focus­ing on President Obama. 
"At one level the results sug­gest Obama is inheriting a compliant Congress than he otherwise would, in the absence of war," he said. 
Rogers Smith, Christopher H. Browne Distinguished Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, delivered the final part of the lecture. 
Smith addressed two key points concerning the histori­cal perspective of Obama's presidency -the change of partisanship that came with the end of the "Reagan Revolution" and the election of the first African-American. 
Smith explained how Obama was able to overcome the racial divide in the United States. 
Rather than uniting with what he referred to as the Modern Race Conscious Alliance, which includes, "most Democratic party office holders and members," Smith said Obama adopted the theme, "E Pluribus Unum." 
Quoting the President, "This nation is more than the sum of its parts. Out of many, we are truly one," Smith said. 
Information Session on Study Abroad Programs in Japan: Nagoya & Tokyo 
Wednesday, October 7, 7:00p.m.. 
229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 For Academic Year 2010-2011, Fall 2010 or Spring 2011 

Contact Scott Englert at senglert@nd.edu 


,~-~---~-~ 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday. October 7, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nobel prizes considered 'Eurocenbic' 
STOCKHOLM-American authors, you may be back in the Nobel running. 
The most prominent member of the Nobel literature prize jury believes the secretive panel has been too "Eurocentric" in picking winners and said Tuesday there are many American writers who would qualify for the coveted award. 
Peter Englund's comments ahead of the 2009 prize announcement on Thursday con­trast with his predecessor's view last year that U.S. literature is too insular. 
"In most language areas ... there are authors that really deserve and could get the Nobel Prize and that goes for the United States and the Americas, as well," Englund told The Associated Press. 
l\1inHerofdefense kidnappedin Uganda 
MOGADISHU, Somalia-Gunmen kid­napped Somalia's state minister for defense Tuesday during a trip to the Ugandan capi­tal, a Somali government spokesman said. 
Minister Yusuf Mohamed Siad was abduct­ed as he walked out of a mosque in Kampala, Somali government spokesman Sheik Abdirisaq Qeylow said. 
"We are investigating," Qeylow told The Associated Press. "All we know so far is that he was taken away." 
The circumstances of the kidnapping were not immediately clear. Kidnappings for ran­som are common in Somalia, where the gov­ernment controls just a few blocks of the capital. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Sdtool ~blamed forteen violence 
CHICAGO -Escalating violence among Chicago's teens may have roots in an unlike­ly place -an ambitious plan to improve education that's also thrown rival gangs together in an often-volatile daily mix. 
After images of a teen slaying were cap­tured on a cell phone last month, President Barack Obama is sending his education sec­retary back to Chicago where, as head of the city's schools, he implemented that plan. 
Since 2005, dozens of failing Chicago pub­lic schools have closed and thousands of stu­dents reassigned to campuses often across gang lines. Activists say this has resulted in a surge of violence that has turned deadly. 

Pediabicians accused of molestation 
HAMILTON, Ohio -A pediatrician per­formed oral sex on three teen patients and fondled a younger boy during office visits, slipping the teenagers cash payments of at least $200 as they left, a prosecutor told jurors Tuesday. 
Dr. Mark Blankenburg doled out money and prescription drugs to some of the patients even after they became adults to keep them silent about the acts, Assistant Butler County Prosecutor Lance Salyers said in opening statements at the doctor's trial. 
"Dr. Mark Blankenburg, for 20 or 30 years now, has been driven by a specific sexual appetite for teenage boys," Salyers said. 
Blankenburg, 53, and his twin, Dr. Scott Blankenburg, also a pediatrician, are accused of sex crimes involving minors. The brother, who does not face any drug charges, is scheduled for trial in April. 
Authorities said the abuses date to 1987. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Assets from eye doctor's estate sold 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Ajudge is allowing some assets to be sold from the estate of a northern Indiana ophthalmologist who committed suicide after he was charged with health care fraud. 
The executor of Dr. Philip Gabriele's will says his assets are worth about $2.8 million, but that not enough money is available to pay expenses, including the ongoing federal criminal case against his medical practice. 
Police found Gabriele and his wife, Marcella, dead at his Elkhart office June 15, three days after they and their practice were named in an indict­ment accusing them of financial fraud and injur­ing patients through unnecessary procedures. 
Boatinghousecouldwithstandstorm 
Brad Pitt's Make It Right foundation invents structure for hurricane-prone areas 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -A house capable of floating atop rising floodwaters made its debut Tuesday in New Orleans alongside more than a dozen other homes built through actor Brad Pitt's Make It Right Foundation. 
Called the FLOAT House, the unique home aims to answer the challenge posed by the Big Easy's flood risk, starkly illustrated by the rising waters of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. 
"I wanted to float it down the Mississippi River to New Orleans," architect Thorn Mayne said with a chuckle while in New Orleans for Tuesday's event. Instead, the home was shipped in pieces from Los Angeles, where it had been constructed on UCLA's campus. 
The dwelling was designed by Morphosis Architects under the direc­tion of Mayne, a professor at UCLA. Mayne said it's the first of its kind to be permitted in the United States 
It is long and narrow like the traditional New Orleans shotgun home and sits on a raised 4-foot base. It also has a front porch. But the home is contemporary in house or other homes being innovative and eco-friendly included architects and design, with sharp angles built by Pitt's group. They as we can be, and the UCLA graduate students, and energy efficient fea­must have lived in the FLOAT House is certainly took about two years to tures like solar panels and Lower 9th Ward before technology designed for design and build the house. a roof designed to capture Hurricane Katrina struck this climate." He said he is now shopping and recycle water. the area in August 2005. The home's base is a for a production company 
"You have to build a Mayne said the Morphosis high-performance chassis to help mass produce it. house for the environment, floating house technology made from polystyrene Miller said the houses could for the reoccurrence of was developed and is in use foam coated in glass fiber­sell for around $150,000. hurricanes, but it can also in the Netherlands, where reinforced concrete. It Shannon Sharpe Briand, be energy efficient," Mayne architects are working to houses the essential equip­a New Orleans real estate said. address rising sea levels ment to supply power, agent with ReMax for more 
No one lives there yet, expected with climate water and fresh air. than seven years, said she but a family could buy the change. While not intended for thinks some buyers would home and move in as early In case of a flood, the occupants to remain inside be interested in the floating as next month, said Tom base of the house acts as a during a hurricane, the homes, especially if the Darden, executive director raft, allowing the home to structure is designed to going price is $150,000. of Make It Right. The group rise on guide posts up to 12 minimize catastrophic Mayne said he admires says it went through the feet as water levels rise. In damage and preserve the Pitt's effort to build local zoning and permitting the Lower 9th Ward, which homeowner's investment, stronger, safer and more channels before erecting saw some of the worst Mayne said. energy efficient housing in the 1,000 square-foot, two­flooding in the city during The floating home should New Orleans. Pitt founded bedroom house on the site. Katrina, floodwater also allow residents to Make It Right in 2007 to 
Residents must qualify reached as high as 12 feet. return within days of a hur­help Lower 9th Ward resi­through the foundation to "It's amazing," Darden ricane or flood, Mayne said. dents who lost their homes be eligible for the floating said. "Our goal is to be as Mayne's team, which during Katrina. 

INDONESIA 


U.S. troops increase earthquake relief 
Associated Press tries focused on caring for the home­expected to arrive in the next day or 
less, who huddled in makeshift shel­so. A supply ship has also been 
PADANG -American troops set up ters and cooked meager meals of rice cleared to begin operations with four a field hospital Tuesday and rerouted and noodles over open fires or ate helicopters large enough to carry 30­ships to aid victims of a powerful vegetables from their fields. 40 people or equipment to areas that earthquake that left hundreds of thou­Rear Adm. Richard Landolt, who cannot be reached by land, he said. sands homeless, in their largest relief arrived Tuesday in Padang, the largest Also Tuesday, 69 U.S. troops ­operation in Muslim-majority city in the quake zone, told The including 11 doctors -flown in from Indonesia since the 2004 Indian Ocean Associated Press that three U.S. Navy Alaska, Hawaii, Guam and Japan tsunami. ships were on their way, full of sup­opened up a 300-bed field hospital 
The expansion of the U.S. mission plies, food and heavy equipment that outside Padang's main medical facility. comes as efforts shifted from search­can be used to clear roads and exca­"We are ready for the long haul," ing for survivors amid the rubble to vate collapsed buildings. said Col. Dan Settergren, who led the providing relief to villages that have "There is a huge valve that is about military team that set up the hospital. been cut off by massive landslides to turn on," he said. "There is going to "We will do whatever it takes." generated by last week's magnitude-be a terrific ramp-up of operations out The official death toll rose Tuesday 
7.6 quake. here." to 704 and officials said it could reach Aid workers from at least 20 coun-Landolt said two naval ships were into the thousands. 
page 6 The Observer+ NEWS Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
Ger01an 
continued from page 1 
Editor and German Club President Aaron Steiner, helped organize the event. 
"You don'( hav\e to be in the German Club or even know anything about German culture to come," Osetinsky said. "We just want everyone to have a great time and enjoy the food, music and company." 
Although the famous German event Oktoberfest is famous for 
• its beer, Smith said, Okdomerfest will not provide beer. Students of age, however, can purchase authentic German ales from the Legends bar. She also said the event will feature an authentic German oompa band called the Strudelmeisters as well as a T­shirt giveaway for the first 35 people who show up. "It will be a great experi­ence," Kevin Godshall, German Club secretary said. "We are giving away free T-shirts." 
Smith, who spent a year studying abroad in Innsbruck, Austria, is passionate about the German culture and hopes 


Estee01 
continued from page 1 
Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business. 
"They decided there's a need for a program for sci­ence and engineering under­graduates on how to take great new technology and translate it into new commer­cial ventures," Alworth said. 
The Academic Council approved the program in January 2009. Alworth said that ESTEEM's approval was one of the fastest approvals of a new program he had ever witnessed. 
ESTEEM's core program consists of 12 one-credit courses focused on business and operations management. Students are also required to take six credits of technieal electives at the graduate level. 
According to Alworth, the program's capstone project is designed to allow students to the event reflects the culture of the area she lived in. 

"I spent a year living in the Austrian Alps," she said. "It's such a gorgeous place with honest people ... it's not hard not to like Germany and the people. Plus, it has a rich eul­tural tradition so there are a lot of fun things you ean do year-round." 
Smith, who is of German descent, also attended the real Oktoberfest in Munich during her time abroad. 
"When we got there, every­thing was just booming," she said. "It was the first weekend [of Oktoberfest] so it was espe­cially crowded. Women in their dirndls, which are the old­fashioned women's German clothing, and men in their lederhosen." 
Osetinsky echoed Smith's enthusiasm about German cul­ture. 
"The best way to eat the same kind of food, beat the crowds and not spend your savings flying across the world to Germany is by coming to Notre Dame's very own Okdomerfest," she said. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
put what they learn in the core program into action. Students work with a faculty member to figure out how the faculty member's invention can come to completion, Alworth said. 
This capstone project is similar to the work Alworth anticipates students doing after graduation. "We hope students help to move new technology to commercializa­tion to benefit society," he said. "How they do that is limitless." 
ESTEEM's core classes, the 12 one-credit courses, are held in Innovation Park, which is also where the pro­gram itself is headquartered. Alworth said that Innovation Park, a product development facility launched by the University, and ESTEEM have similar missions -to bring new technology from the research phase into the com­mercial marketplace. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

Newring discovered around Sahnn 

PASADENA, Calif'. -The Spitzer Space Telescope has discovered the biggest but never-before-seen ring around the planet Saturn, NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory announced late Tuesday. 
The thin array of iee and dust particles lies at the far reaches of the Saturnian sys­tem and its orbit is tilted 27 degrees from the planet's main ring plane, the laboratory said. 
JPL spokeswoman Whitney Clavin said the ring is very dif­fuse and doesn't reflect much visible light but the infrared Spitzer telescope was able to detect it. 
Although the ring dust is very cold-minus 316 degrees Fahrenheit -it shines with thermal radiation. 
No one had looked at its loca­tion with an infrared instru­ment until now, Clavin said. 
The bulk of the ring material starts about 3. 7 million miles from the planet and extends outward about another 7.4 mil­lion miles. 

The newly found ring is so huge it would take 1 billion Earths to fill it, JPL said. 
Before the discovery Saturn was known to have seven main rings named A through E and several faint unnamed rings. 
A paper on the discovery was to be published online Wednesday by the journal Nature. 
"This is one supersized ring," said one of the authors, Anne Verbiscer, an astronomer at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. Her co-authors are Douglas Hamilton of the University of Maryland, College Park, and Michael Skrutskie, also of the University of Virginia. 
Saturn's moon Phoebe orbits within the ring and is believed to be the source of the materi­al. 
The ring also may answer the riddle of another moon, Iapetus, which has a bright side and a very dark side. 
The ring circles in the same direction as Phoebe, while Iapetus, the other rings and most of Saturn's other moons go the opposite way. ·scientists think material from the outer ring moves inward and slams into Iapetus. 
"Astronomers have long sus­pected that there is a connec­tion between Saturn's outer moon Phoebe and the dark material on Iapetus," said Hamilton. "This new ring pro­vides convincing evidence of that relationship." 
The Spitzer mission, launched in 2003, is managed by JPL in Pasadena. Spitzer is 66 million miles from Earth in orbit around the sun. 
& ICLO'V:EB :RI.)DG~E! 
-· ~--~ 
A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 
Deluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments 

• 
State of the Art Brand New High Line Fitness Center and Community Club House 

Free Tanning Beds 


• 
Private Balconies and Free Parking 

• 
... ~wjmming Pool, Sun Deck, Hot Tub ·· and BllSketbaU Court 

• 
OnSite M~nagement and 24/7 Maintenance 

• 
(}n Site Security Officer 



• 
Swimming Pool,Tennis Court, 24 Hour Fitness Center, Basketball Court 

• 
Free Tanning Beds 

• 
Free Washer and Dryer in each unit 

• 
High Speed Wtreless Internet and Comcast Premium Cable Included 

• 
On Site Management and 24/7 Maintenance 

• 
On Site Security Officer 




574.272.8124  574.272.1441  
l71 0 Turtle Creek Drive • South Bend> IN  180l Irish Way • South Bend, IN  
www.dovervillageapartments.com  www.doverridgeapartments.com  


THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 

Jones 9,731.25 +131.50 
Up; Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,943 85 811 1,628,601,502 
AMEX NASDAQ 2(103.57 t35A3 NYSE 6;899.68 +JG4SS5 S&P 500 1,054.72 +14.26 



NIKKEI (Tokyo)···· 9i09~~SO T()[{j() FTSE 100 (London) 5,137.98 +1 l3.65 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
OTIGROUP (C) 0.00 0.00 4.67 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.43 +L49 105.51 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) +0.14 +0.04 17.00 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.29 +0.19 14.93 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.74 +0.024 3.25 13-WEEK BILL -22.22 -0.02 O.o7 30-YEAR BOND +0.87 +0.035 4.05 5-YEAR NOTE +0.99 +0.022 2.24 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.47 70.88 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +21.901,039.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.70 80.40 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 88.6750 .EURO 1.4733 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0605 BRffiSH POUND L5936 

IN BRIEF Toyota begins Highlander production 
PRINCETON. Ind.-Toyota Motor Corp. says it has begun production of its Highlander sport-utility vehicle at its truck complex near Evansville. 
Spokeswoman Kelly Dillon says Toyota Motor Manufacturing Indiana plans to cele­brate the launch Thursday with small worker celebrations on the shop floor and an after­noon reception for community leaders. 
The assembly line in the Toyota West plant underwent a $500 million retooling to handle the midsize Highlander after production of the Tundra full-size pickup was moved to San Antonio, Texas. 
Toyota West will continue producing the full­size Sequoia SUV, while the Toyota East plant assembles the Sienna minivan. The complex employs 4,200, following the recent buyouts of about 400 workers. 
Toyota operates 14 plants in North America. 

Armstrong to be spokeman for beer 
MILWAUKEE -Cycling great Lance Armstrong has inked a deal with Anheuser­Busch InBev to be the spokesman for the com­pany's Michelob Ultra brand of beer. 
The seven-time winner of the Tour de France and the brewer announced the three­year deal Tuesday. 
Armstrong will appear in two television ads featuring the brand, and his image will be in outdoor, print and in-store advertising and possibly packaging. 
Speaking from the company's St. Louis offices, where he had addressed 5,000 distrib­utors, Armstrong said he's not quick to jump on endorsements and tries to limit them because of demands on his time from racing, his family and his other ventures. 
He said a pairing with Michelob Ultra fit his lifestyle, which focuses on balance. The beer is marketed for health-minded drinkers. 
"The key word is we tried to be authentic," he told The Associated Press. "You don't want to be in a place where you're putting your name or face or likeness in any old thing that comes along and whispers in your ear." 
"l-Ie's the perfect athlete to connect with adult beer drinkers who lead active lifestyles and also a balanced lifestyle," said marketing vice president Keith Levy. 
Burger King revamps image, food 
Fast-food restaurant chain introduces new, higher-quality design called '20/20' 
Associated Press 

CIIICAGO -Burger King Corp. plans to swap its generic fast-food feel and bland tiles and table­tops for a vibe that's more sit-down than drive­through. 
As part of a plan to bP revPaled Wednesday in Amsterdam, the company will announce a massive effort to overhaul its 
12.000 locations world­wide. The sleek interior will include rotating red name chandeliers, bril­liant TV-screen menus and industrial-inspired corrugated metal and brick walls. 
''I'd call it more contem­porary, edgy, futuristic," Chairman a·nd CEO John Chidsey told The Associated Press. "It feels so much more like an upscale restaurant." 
But that comes with an upscale price: The new look is expected to cost franchisees, who operate 90 percent of Burger King's locations, between $300,000 to $600,000 per restaurant. 
The company said the new design, called "20/20" at the Miami-based chain, is already in place at about 60 locations around the world. Burger King Observers say the hip, ing and will be swayed with sit-down counter­expects about 75 more urban and masculine ele­once they see how sales parts that many cus­redesigned restaurants to ments in the redesign may can climb. tomers think offer better be open by the end of next be a hit with Burger Morningstar analyst R.J. food and better ambiance. year. But it will take years King's most loyal cus­Hottovy said the reformu­Ron Paul, president of before all its locations are tomers -young men who lated restaurant could the food consultant com­transformed. frequent the chain known keep diners at the table pany Technomic Inc., said 
Burger King franchise as much for its signature longer but may not draw he thinks the redesign owners are contractually Whoppers and "steak in enough extra diners to shows just how deter­required to update their burgers" as its sometimes­justify the cost. mined Burger King is to restaurants after a set creepy "King" commer­"I don't think they'll compete with "fast casu­period of time, and execu­cials. But some experts change their perception," al" restaurant chains such tives said the redesign will are skeptical about he said. "They're pretty as Chipotle, Starbucks and be the primary option for whether sales will grow as entrenched in their reali­Panera, which customers future upgrades. All new much as the company ty." think of as a cut above restaurants will be built claims and how eager A group representing typical fast food. using the plan. franchise owners will be Burger King franchise "People in the fast-food 
So far, remodeled to part with that kind of owners didn't immediately category are recognizing restaurants have seen cash, particularly in a comment. they've been losing cus­sales climb about 12 to 15 sour economy. Fast-food restaurants tomers to the fast-casual percent, while restaurants Chidsey said he thinks typically get almost two­player," he said. "What that are torn down and most franchise owners, thirds of their business this sounds like is an completely rebuilt at the who typically own both from drive-through or attempt to get that dining­same location have seen their restaurant's building carryout orders. More in business back by mak­sales climb by as much as and the land, won't have appealing interiors could ing it an attractive envi­30 percent, Chidsey said. trouble obtaining financ-help the company compete ronment." 

AT&T to expand internet services on iPhone 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -AT&T Inc. said late Tuesday that it will begin allow­ing iPhone owners to use Internet calling services on its wireless net­work. 
The phone giant, the exclusive wire­less provider for Apple Inc.'s iPhone, has until now allowed Internet calling services to work on the popular device only over Wi-Fi connections. Those connections generally have limited mobility and therefore present less of a competitive threat to AT&T's core wireless calling business. 
The move comes amid a Federal Communications Commission inquiry into competition in the wireless indus­try. Among other things, that inquiry will examine handset exclusivity deals, such as AT&T's agreement with Apple giving AT&T exclusive access to the iPhone. 
It also comes ahead of an FCC vote scheduled for later this month on "network neutrality" rules, which would prohibit broadband providers from favoring or discriminating against certain types of Internet traffic flowing over their lines. 
FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski, one of three Democrats on the com­mission, wants to impose net neutrali­ty rules to ensure that broadband providers don't abuse their power over Internet access to favor their own services or harm competitors. 
His plan faces stiff opposition from the phone and cable companies that provide most broadband connections in the U.S. and has particularly alarmed wireless carriers because it would also apply these rules to wire­less networks. 
AT&T said late Tuesday that it has informed Apple and the FCC that "it has taken the steps necessary" to enable Voice over Internet Protocol ­or VoiP -services on the iPhone over its 3G wireless network. AT&T said it made the decision "after evaluating our customers' expectations and use of the device compared to dozens of others we offer." 
The company already allows sub­scribers to make Internet calls over its 3G network using other wireless devices. 
Apple welcomed the announcement. "We are very happy that AT&T is now supporting VolP applications," said Apple spokeswoman Natalie Kerris. 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
MEXICO 


Anti-prostitution group seeks to block 111ovie 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY -Efforts to film Nobel Prize-winning author Gabriel Garcia Marquez's latest novel are meeting resistance in Mexico, where an anti-prostitution group is seeking to block pro­duction, charging the movie will promote child prostitu­tion. 
"Memories of My Melancholy Whores" tells the story of a bachelor who for his 90th birthday decides to give himself the gift of a night of "wild love with an adoles­cent virgin." 
The Regional Coalition Against Trafficking in Women and Girls in Latin America and the Caribbean filed a criminal complaint with Mexico's Attorney General's Office on Monday. The com­plaint does not specifically name Garcia Marquez, but instead "whoever is responsi­ble for acts that could be con­stituted as the crime of con­doning child prostitution." 
Coalition director Teresa Ulloa told The Associated Press that a movie adaptation of the Colombian author's novel would promote pedophilia and be accessible to a wider audience. 
"As a book, it does not have access to the most vulnerable people in society," she said. "Once they make the movie, it will be in movie theaters and later it will surely be on tele­vision." 
The Attorney General's Office did not immediately respond to requests for infor­mation on the lawsuit. 
The film's co-director and producer, Ricardo del Rio, told Mexico's Heforma newspaper in an interview published Tuesday the lawsuit's claims were inaccurate and unfair. 
"They are censoring a film before it's been made, without knowing either the script or the vision of the director," he said. 
He told Heforma that film­ing, scheduled to begin in late Octobe~ had been postponed because government officials in the Mexican state of Puebla had decided to withdraw funding for the movie in light of the lawsuit. 
Puebla's government said in a statement released Tuesday would not help fund the $8 million film. 
Del Hio said producers had picked a 21-year-old actress, Ana de Armas, for the movie part, and that the character's age would not be dealt with in the film. 
"Here they have simply killed our adaptation. They have dealt us a fatal blow because we can't film without all the resources," he said. 
Representatives  of  
Memorias  del  Sabio  
Producciones, listed as  the  

producer of the movie on a Mexican government Web site, said filming has been delayed but did not provide further reactions to the law­suit. 
"We are actively working to make this film project ... We know it is a film that will awaken an interesting debate, just as it will make us grow as a society," producer Raquel Guajardo said in a statement. 
Ulloa said stopping the adaptation was her organiza­tion's goal. 
"We don't want them to put Garcia Marquez in jail," Ulloa said. "What we want is for them not to film the movie." 
She said the governments of Denmark and Spain were pro­viding funding for the film. The coalition also plans to send letters to those govern­ments asking them to recon­sider their participation, she said. 
"Memories of My Melancholy Whores," pub­lished in Spanish in 2004, is the Nobel Prize-winning nov­elist's most recent book. When the novel came out in Mexico, publishers described it as a "hymn to life." 
PAKISTAN 

Country braces for bombings 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD -Pakistan braced for more militant attacks ahead of an anticipat­ed offensive against a Taliban stronghold, as the insurgents said they bombed a U.N. relief agency because inter­national aid work was not in "the interest of Muslims." 
The suicide bombing Monday at the World Food Program headquarters in Islamabad killed five people, prompting the U.N. to tem­porarily shut all its offices across the country. 
U.N. humanitarian chief John Holmes said security at the U.N. of'l'ices would be reviewed. "But we have no intention of giving up or stop­ping giving the help that peo­ple need so desperately at the moment," he told reporters in New York on Tuesday. 
Holmes urged militants not to attack U.N. and other aid agencies "on the pretense that we're doing something other than" humanitarian work, adding that the aid groups have "no political or religious or other agenda." 
The attack proved the Taliban retained the ability to launch deadly strikes in the heart of Pakistan despite gov­ernment hopes that the Aug. 5 killing of their leader Baitullah Mehsud in a CIA drone attack and recent mili­tary successes in the Swat Valley would send the group spiraling into chaos. 
Pakistani officials have said they are prepared to launch another offensive to rout the Taliban from their mountain redoubts in South Waziristan. A media report last week said a major ground offensive was imminent, and an AP reporter in the area Sunday saw Taliban fighters taking up positions and villagers fleeing. 
Such an offensive would likely come at a high price for the military. The army has been beaten back there three times since 2004 and analysts say 10,000 well­armed militants, including foreign fighters, are dug in around the region. 
Helicopter gunships, jet fighters and artillery batter­ies pounded suspected mili­tant hide-outs in South Waziristan on Tuesday, killing two militants and seven other people, intelli­gence officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the media. They said the army was trying to establish whether the seven unidenti­fied victims were militants. 
The military launched the strikes in response to a Taliban attack on two mili­tary bases, the officials said. 

Wednesday, October 7, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Abducted baby to be returned to Tenn. mom 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE -A mother will be reunited with her newborn son after losing him twice, first to a kidnapper and then to state custody after someone claimed a family member had tried to sell him. 
Infant Yair Anthony Carillo is no longer in state custody and authorities do not believe par­ents Maria Gurrolla and Jose Carillo were involved in the abduction, the Department of Children's Services and Nashville police said Tuesday. 
Maria Gurrolla lost custody of Yair and his three siblings after the baby was found safe in Alabama. Two officials familiar with the case, speak­ing on condition of anonymity because they were not author­ized to discuss it, said the state took the children after someone claimed a family member had tried to sell the baby. 
Thomas Miller, an attorney appointed to represent the children, told The Associated Press that police informed child welfare offlcials Tuesday they had "cleared the parents of any wrongdoing." 
"The kids will be returned as soon as logistically possible," Miller said. 
Gurrolla and Carillo could not immediately be located for comment. 
The baby was found Friday, three days after he was abducted during a Sept. 29 knife attack on his mother in her home. Gurrolla was briefly reunited with the infant Saturday before Children's Services put him and his sib­lings, ages 3, 9 and 11, in fos­ter care for their safety. Department officials have declined to be more specific, citing privacy concerns for the family. 
Tammy Renee Silas, 39, of Ardmore, Ala., was charged with kidnapping after authori­ties said they found the baby unharmed at her home about 80 miles south of Nashville. 
Silas has not been charged in the attack on Gurrolla, who was stabbed several times and had a collapsed lung. 
The police statement says "significant unanswered ques­tions remain" in the case, including why Gurrolla and her infant were targeted. 
Gurrolla told investigators that after she was stabbed, the attacker made a phone call and said in Spanish "The job is done" and the mother "was dying," according to court doc­uments. 
Silas, who remained in cus­tody Tuesday, waived an initial hearing and has not yet appeared in court. She has given a statement to investiga­tors, according to Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokeswoman Kristin Helm, who declined to detail what she said. 
Letterman scandal ups ratings 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -While David Letterman would undoubtedly do without the personal turmoil, his blackmail scandal is great for business. 
The late-night talk show host's apologies to his wife and staff made for gripping television, and more viewers tuned in to his CBS program than watched anything on NBC in prime-time on Monday. That includes Letterman's old rival, Jay Leno. 
Letterman used most of his monologue for jokes at his own expense. In revealing last week that he was the victim of an alleged blackmail scheme, Letterman also admitted to hav­ing sexual relationships with women who worked on his "Late Show." 
When the laughs quieted down, Letterman apologized to his staff for "putting up with something stupid I've gotten myself involved in." Many had been humiliated by questions from reporters. Letterman said the relationships were in the past. He married longtime flame Regina Lasko in March, and said he is intent upon repairing their marriage. 
"Let me tell you folks, I got my work cut out for me," he said. 
CBS News producer Robert J. "Joe" Halderman has pleaded not guilty to charges of trying to 
extort  $2  million  from  
Letterman.  
Although  Letterman  has  

acknowledged having more than one sexual relationship with staff members, Halderman referred to only one woman by name -Stephanie Birkitt -in his alleged extortion attempt, according to a law enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the continuing investigation. Birkitt, Letterman's assistant, is Halderman's former live-in girl­friend. 
The 5.7 million viewers who tuned in to Letterman Monday more than doubled the audience for NBC's "Tonight" show with Conan O'Brien, according to the Nielsen Co. It was slightly less than the 5.9 million who watched Thursday when Letterman broke the news of the alleged extortion attempt. 
The ratings are a testament to the power of the Internet after Letterman's representatives released details of the scandal to the media about three hours before his show aired Thursday. His audience that night was more than a million more than usual, meaning word spread quickly and encouraged people to tune in. 
The timing also couldn't be better for CBS, which has seen Letterman eclipse the "Tonight" show shortly after O'Brien took over. The "Late Show" is solidi­fying the lead partly because of the scandal and guests like President Barack Obama, who brought 7.2 million viewers when he appeared on Sept. 21. 
Also appreciating the timing was the pistachio nut industry, which started its first-ever tele­vision advertising campaign Monday with commercials on Letterman and the NFL game between the Minnesota Vikings and Green Bay Packers, which was the most-watched event in cable TV history. 
"This is gravy for us," said Dominic Engels, vice president for marketing at pistachio maker Paramount Farms. 
No advertisers have publicly asked to back out of the "Late Show" since the story broke, and analysts say they don't expect the incident to make a bottom-line difference to the CBS Corp. 
"The ratings popped the first night," said David Joyce, analyst for Miller Tabek. "It appears as ifit's going to be a non-story." 
Letterman even got an endorsement from Martha Stewart, who said his actions aren't at all disturbing unless there was force involved. 
"He's a very attractive man," she said. "Very appealing. Great sense of humor, obviously, and I think all this was done while he was still not married. Although it's still probably harmful to his wife ... But, you know, men are men. I've put up with it all." 
Letterman's effort to be pro­active with the issue in a self­deprecating way is helping him control the story and his image, said Michael Gordon, head of a New York-based crisis public relations firm. 
"What he can't control is if there are more revelations," he said. "If just one woman claims harassment, then his ratings will go down along with his career." 
Letterman arrived on stage Monday to applause and cheers from his studio audience. After drinking it in, he grinned sheep­ishly and inquired, with a mock stammer, "Did your, did your weekend just fly by?" 
After pausing for the audi­ence's sympathetic laughter, he went on: "I mean, I'll be honest with you folks -~ight now, I would give anything to be hiking on the Appalachian Trail." 
"I got into the car this morn­·ing," he added. "and the naviga­tion lady wasn't speaking to me. Ouch." 
His performance drew mixed reviews. 
Entertainment Weekly's Ken Tucker called it "was such a superb hour of television ... that it reminded us all over again how invaluable he is." 
"It is time for those calling for his head to calm down and let the man do his job, the job he does as no one else does, and no one will ever do as well again," Tucker wrote 
But editorial page columnist Yael T. Abouhalkah of the Kansas City Star said Letterman's effort to poke fun at a serious situation "made the apologies he issued look rather lame." 
Joel Keller of the Web site TV Squad advised Letterman to "stop talking about this mess, immediately." 
"The more jokes he made, the more I felt that he was digging a hole he couldn't get out of," Keller wrote. "And then when he made that apology, sincere as it was, it felt like the hole just got much, much deeper." 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Disorganized crime fighting 
P.O. Box 779, Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Merz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jadyn Espinoza CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
{574) 631-4540 jshalfel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DEsK 
achamO 1 @sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

0BSERVER.ONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe aurhors and nor neces$3Ii.ly those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofaU opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contacr information. 
Q;testions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editur-in-Chiifjenn Metz. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer \USPS 599-2-4000) iS publish«~ Monday thto.llgh Friday (:xt:-ept during exam a~d v.ttati<l:ll p('fiods. A ~ripti® (o The Ob5erver is $120= f~r one aE:ademic year; $6:"5 for one stmesttt~ 
The O.bscrvtt is published at~ POSTMASTER -O:Z-4 South Dinlng Hall Notre Dom" IN 46556-j)77~ The-Observer P-triodkal posttg.t:pahl.Jn..Naci-~ Dm1c: RO,Box77'J and .uklirlonal m&ln.g offiecs. 024 Sour!) Dining Hall 

N<>n< Dame, IN 465;6-0779 
The 0~~ is a mt:mht:[ ~f thr Associated l':ress•.All .reproduction rightsW 
<<=V«<. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Peralta Sam Werner Sarah Mervosh Jared Jedick Ann-Marie Andrew Owens Woods Viewpoint Graphics Patricia Sofia Iturbe Fernandez Scene Jordan Gamble 
It has become painfully obvious to any­body reading The Observer since school began that the issue of off campus crime has regrettably surfaced again, and with a vengeance. Whether it was the plethora of assaults down Notre Dame Ave., the break-ins all around the Northeast Neighborhood, or the violent carjacking that took place less than a mile from Notre Dame's gates, the problems have seem to become more fanatical and outrageous at every turn. 
As a senior off-campus, I am obviously concerned for the well being of the stu­dents and my friends scattered around LaSalle, Notre Dame Ave., and Vaness St. Moreover, as a student, I am concerned with the tepid University response, and some of the misplaced efforts of the South Bend Police Department (SBPD). To date, students off-campus have received a lone e-mail, from Fr. Poorman, explaining that "We have experienced crime near the campus previously, but in these most recent cases the perpetrators have been bolder than in the past." Furthermore, he assures us that ResLife is "working closely with our University and local police agen­cies to proactively address the issue." I find neither of these sentiments reassur­ing or helpful. Beyond this single effort, little has been openly discussed or put out in a forum that would actively engage stu­dents and the community living in these areas to action. Confidence in action by the University is ebbing low. 

The effectiveness of the SBPD in dealing with crime in the area is also in doubt. The normal cause for concern is the zeal­ousness on the part of the police force to target underage drinking and employ scarce resources to stop a bunch of kids in Polos and miniskirts from indulging. This seems especially true when SBPD is using multiple patrols to write dozens of tickets in one fell swoop, something that happens with some regularity every semester. 
However, the state budget is tight, and SBPD was nearly unable to reach a con­tract agreement for the new fiscal budget. Things would have been worse had already tight resources been stretched further. For what they have, the force has made several notable arrests in the past few weeks, and for that it deserves some recognition. 
Interestingly, the SBPD has been increasingly using new teehnology (such as Twitter, and Facebook) to help spread the word about safety and crime issues. This is a positive step and could be even more eflective if an efl'ort was made to get the students involved. Imagine if most stu­dents off campus could receive text mes­sages warning them of a rise in crime on their block, or if there was someone at large in the community. It would certainly be a start. 
Furthermore, the student government has been working on a new project aimed specifically at off-campus woes. Although the details remain vague, the idea is aimed at providing late night shuttle transportation in off-campus areas for students. I think this is an exciting idea, and should be pursued. Aroute similar to the current Notre Dame Transpo bus would hit many of the major spots already, and could be aujusted to swing by downtown, and back up through the apartment neighborhood. This could be an easy and effective way to at least pre­vent some of the "en-route" crime that occurs. 
The quickest and strongest response so far has come from Mark Kramer, the largest landlord of off-campus student housing, and a strong advocate for action on this issue. Within the last week, he has begun to promote Gargoyle, a company which will provide a house with a security check, log all serial numbers of valuable devices/electronics, and leave them with an ultraviolet stamp that identifies them as stolen goods. Additionally, he has pro­vided this service free of charge to his ten­ants, in addition to the security car that drives around his properties on the week­ends. This has been the most concrete action yet observed in the community, and hopefully is only the beginning. 
There are a lot of moving parts in the puzzle here, and to claim the students have no responsibility for their own safety would dangerous and absurd. However, if the University, the SBPD, some of the larger landlords and student government (along with the snazzy new off-campus Web site) unified to combat crime in the Northeas Neighborhood, progress could be made in a bigger way. 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major. He can be contacted at cole­man. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What are you doing for Fall Break? 
Going home 

"Normal is not something to aspire
Staying at Notre Dame 
to, it's something to get. away from." 
Going on a service trip Other Jodie Foster 
U.S. actor 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com · 



THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
I'll start by saying that I have noth­ing against gay people. If that's the way that God made you, then that's the way you are. The Catholic Church states that there is nothing immoral about being homosexual: only immoral to practice homosexuality. In other words, being gay is acceptable, but openly practicing it is not. However some believe that Notre Dame needs to adjust its non-discrimination clause to include homosexuals ("Clause needs updating;" Oct.6). 
I offer the following thoughts. I think that Notre Dame should endorse the same policy as the United States mili­
Don't ask, don't tell 
tary when it comes to admitting gay students: Don't ask, don't tell. 
This policy prohibits anyone who "demonstrates a propensity to engage in homosexual acts" from serving in the armed forces. If people don't open­ly practice homosexuality, then we shouldn't hold their sexual orientation against them in admissions. But allow­ing gay students to openly practice homosexuality on the campus of Notre Dame only makes us more secular. 
I thought that Notre Dame had peaked in secularism with our choice of Commencement speaker last spring. Having the biggest pro-choice advocate in the world justifying abortion on the platform of the University of Notre Dame was a disgrace. It's about time for Notre Dame to honor the teachings of the Catholic Church, not contradict them. The University of Notre Dame ought to be the gold standard of Catholicism in higher education. We should not adjust our policies to fit societal norms so that people can feel better about their sin. One thing will be certain, if Notre Dame adjusts the clause to include openly practicing homosexuals, then we will have no right to consider ourselves a Catholic university anymore. 
page 11 

How could we when we don't honor even the most basic of Catholic social teachings in abortion and homosexual­ity? So no, I don't agree that the clause needs updating to include gays. If you're a homosexual student applying to Notre Dame, you should keep your sexual orientation to yourself. 
We are, or at least were, a Catholic university. 
Sean Mullen sophomore Keough Hall Ocr. 6 

Miley Cyrus: a bard for today's youth 
Thank you, Martha Karam ("Leave And displaying her usual lyrical flair, I not for Rolling Stone. 1984. Miley alone;" Sept.30), for defending might add: "And the Jay-Z song was on I How tasteful were your photo shoots Lastly, I have deduced through a thor­Miley Cyrus. She is, as Ms. Karam notes, and the Jay-Z song was on I and the Jay­when you were 16? Only moderately ough Facebook recon that the writers of only 16 years old. To all the haters: grow zsong was oooonnn." I'm sure Jay won't tasteful -at best. You find her digitally the original piece -Szymon Ryzner and up. I don't know what kind of fancy high be tempted to shoot her next time he enhanced voice "nasally?" You wouldn't Nick Anderson -were much, much school you went to, but I didn't know any sees her in the club. Even if he were, he know Bob Dylan if he rolled a huge blunt worse looking as 16-year-olds than Miley adverbs when I was 16. Get off your high won't get the opportunity for two years with the American flag and smoked it in is. fact. horse and remember what it was like to because California's clubs don't allow your nay-saying face. I, for one -and Ms. Karam, too, no just do things like "yeah!" minors. This definitely isn't a Nashville Frankly, I question the patriotism of doubt-enjoyed partying in the USA 
As Ms. Karam notes, Miley's lyrics are party! Miley's critics. I won't speak for you, Mr. last weekend. Like "yeah!" comparable to those of other pop and Yet if Miley were to go to the club Mohammed al-Qaeda Hamas, but I hip hop artists. Let's all admit that the underage -and I am by no means sug­believe that "Party in the USA" is the Tom Dybicz only reason Jay-Z's Blueprint 3 is rele­gesting she's the type-she would not best song to feature the phrase "in the senior vant is because Miley mentioned him in dress like that coked-out wench Lady USA" in its title since the Boss extolled off-campus "Party." Gaga. So Miley was all naked and what-the virtues of killing the yellow man in Oct. 4 

Wanted: Colin Sullivan 
To those who printed the Wanted posters: as someone who con­siders myself lucky to be Colin's girlfriend of almost a year, I was pretty surprised to wake up yesterday morning and find out that all 
-this time I've actually been dating one of Notre Dame's most sexist men. Apparently what I considered a humorous comment was actually a direct attack on myself and all other female students on campus. I thought the fact that he supports me in everything I do, is best friends with my roommate and adores his two sisters was a sign of a guy who had an inherent respect for women. It took your letter for me to see the error of my ways. Thank you so much for enlightening me: you obviously know him better than I do. 
Michelle Lee sophomore Howard Hall Oct. 5 



Proud to be a w-otnan 
"What's your favorite 80's movie?" "If you could jump into a pool of anything, what would it be?" "If you could be any Pokemon, which one would you be?" These examples of previous Observer "Questions of the Day" somehow lead me to believe that these daily inquiries are not exactly meant to be deep, pressing, intellectually-stimulating questions. 
Let's be honest. How many of us look to the "Question of the Day" thinking "Ooh! What riveting organic chemistry synthesis will they have for me today?" or "What will be the latest philosophical debate today?" Of course not. The "Question of the Day" is meant to be a frivolous question that makes us laugh and lets us (for a brief moment) not be seri­ous. 
Therefore, Colin Sullivan's comments must be taken in light of their context: in jest. No one would voice such inflammatory remarks on a light-hearted platform, and I urge all those up in arms to take the comment for what it was -a joke. If we start taking offense towards remarks with humorous intent, we are setting ourselves on a slippery slope towards censorship. 
I, as a proud member of the female gender, am not offended by his answer because I read it for the joke that it was. 
Kelly Jones sophomore Welsh Family Hall Oct. 5 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 


thrown out. On shifts I work, I throw away countless 
pieces of untouched fruit. 
Whole apples, bananas, 
oranges and pears are tossed 
every day because they have been contaminat­ed by the simple act of



solve anything? I simply propose 
that some discretion is used in

TRA-;M&~ &OOD FOOD 
Going green is the responsible, if not trendy, thing to do these days. Everyone is concerned with conserving energy, being a conscious consumer and making the world a better place to live in. Signs of the times can be Genevieve seen across cam­
McCabe 
pus. We have a whole week dedi­cated to ceo­Scene Writer friendly energy and consumption. Last year's Notre Dame Forum was dedicated to the discussion of sustain­able energy. Even in the dining halls little signs remind us to "consider going tray-less" and "not waste food." Yet there is a clear flaw in the design of this latest campaign -the one-item rule. 
I know it may seem strange to con­nect an attempt to reduce waste with the one-item rule (a student is only permitted to take one item with them from the dining hall following a meal) but I would like to supply a personal experience that will hopefully explain my reasoning. 
I was recently eating dinner at one of the dining halls on campus. After putting my tray up, I decided that I was going to grab some fro-yo for the 
walk back to my dorm. Yet I already had a banana in my 
hand. Big mis­take. As I walked to the 
exit, I was promptly stopped 
short and informed that I 
was 
only 
permit­ted to remove 

one of my two items 
from the din­ing hall. Thinking in the 
short term, I handed over my banana and 
walked out the door with my fro-yo in a 
huff. This may seem like a familiar story, 
but let me break it down one step fur­
ther. As a dining hall worker myself, I 
know for a fact that that banana was 
being picked up by a stu­dent. Considering the big pic­
ture, wouldn't it have been better to allow me to take that piece of fruit in addition to my fro-yo? The banana would not have been wasted, and I would have had breakfast. Instead the banana was thrown away, and I still ate breakfast. Thus, twice as much food and energy was expended on my breakfast than if I had been allowed the banana in the first place. 
Coming at this situation from another standpoint: does it really make a dif­ference if I consumed my fro-yo and banana in the dining hall or outside of it? Not to beat a dead horse, but I pay a good deal of money for Wednesday, October 7, 2009 

every meal I eat at the dining hall, and I am fairly certain that I rarely con­sume an equivalent amount of food. Eating my fro-yo before I leave changes little -the same amount of food was consumed, and less food would have been wasted in the end. 
I realize there is a slippery slope 
when it comes to rules. Who is to 
say that a two item rule will 
considering each situation. I 

think that as students of Notre Dame, we have the ability to know the difference between taking two items and taking an entire meal home for later. And in an environment where everyone is concerned with the responsible use of resources, isn't it better that that banana is eaten rather than thrown away? This may be a small step, but it is one step further in reducing waste and limiting our impact on the environment. 
Genevieve McCabe may be 

reached at 
gmccabe@nd. edu 
The views 
expressed in this 
column are 
those of the 
author and not 
necessarily 
those ofThe 
Observer. 
By KATHERINE GREENSPON Scene Writer 

The Material Girl has done it again. On Sept. 29, Madonna released a greatest hits album on Warner Bros. Records that can be purchased as a two-disc deluxe set or an 18-song single disc. Every song on the new album has been remastered and handpicked by Madonna and her fans. 
Madonna's "Celebration" is a compilation of her achievements over her successful and extraordinary musical career. Hits including "Vogue," "Ray of Light," "4 Minutes" and the world-renowned "Like a Virgin" will be avail­able on both the two-disc set and the single disk album. Madonna also adds a new extended version of "Frozen" from her 1998 "Ray of Light" album. 
This newest CD showcases her pro­gression with her sound and musical elements that has kept her success and popularity going for so long. Madonna is known for her eclectic style, youthful approach and edgy music videos that have helped make her the music icon she is today. Madonna's devotion and passion towards 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 

her music and the lyrics she uses expresses her unique­ness and displays new style that has been adapted by many other artists such as Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera and Kylie Minogue. 
Madonna adds two new songs to the collection of past hits: "Revolver" featuring rap royalty Lil' Wayne and "Celebration," which was co-produced by Madonna and Paul Oakenfold. Both songs have an electronic sound and display Madonna's new instrumental elements that make her music so appealing to many different audi­ences. 
Previously released songs like "4 Minutes," featuring Justin Timberlake and Timbaland, prove that Madonna can be versatile and experiment with dif­ferent elements that grant her such longevity in the music industry. Her look is timeless and so is her music. "Celebration" exemplifies Madonna's style and she has man­aged to hold a strong spot in the 
young music world today. 
Radio received "Celebration" 
on Aug. 3 and it has been 
played everywhere: from local 
radio stations to the biggest 
clubs across the nation. Dance 
club remixes of "Celebration" 
are already being made and 
heading to the clubs where 
people half Madonna's age 
are enjoying her buoyant 
and upbeat works. 
Madonna incorporates 
her old flavor with new 
and youthful contrib­
utors like Paul 
Oakenfold who has made a name for himself as one of the most recognized producers and DJs in the industry. 
Madonna is one of the highest earning female pop stars in the world. With sold-out concerts and theatrical performances, it is no wonder why she is crowned as the world's favorite material girl. The "Celebration" album is already on iTunes and store shelves, but the deluxe video edition is also causing some commotion with its 38 tracks and 30 music videos. Madonna is highlighting all of her work on this album and every song that earned an award and recognition are being noticed. 
Madonna has repeatedly reinvented herself through a chain of visual and musical personas that has held the attention of both her original audience and new disci­ples. With this new CD it captures every turning point in Madonna's musical career to date. 
This album will not disappoint. "Celebration" is an accomplished album and with Grammy award winning, Billboard dominating and hit smashing songs this album truly tops any of its kind. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreenO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Celebration Madonna Best Tracks: "Revolver," "Ray of Light" and "Vogue" 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
page 13 

The eating disorder paradox 

N)(· \ 
..' ...:~ l 
.
I 

~~ . 
"'-~·-ih~ 

Are eating disorder clinics healthy Polly was the Renfrew Center's wild­solutions for men and women suffering card. She made the best progress of the from anorexia nervosa, bulimia and four but did so to the detriment of the chronic over-eating? Clearly clinics are community by constantly bending the full of mentally and physically ill rules and enticing others to do so with patients and there-her. She admitted she came to Renfrew fore cannot be after attempting suicide because she ate 
Adriana Pratt

deemed "healthy" two pieces of pizza. She was eventually in most senses of forced to leave Renfrew for her bad the word, but can influence on others but was by far one of 
Assistant

they even be suc­Renfrew's most lively characters. cessful in their mis­Scene Editor Shelly's poor self image came in part sion to heal eating from years of comparing herself to her disorder victims? twin and constantly trying to be thinner 
On Monday evening, the HBO docu­than her and also from other unnamed mentary "Thin" based on Lauren events that happened in her past. She Greenfield's photo exhibit of patients spent five years being force-fed through from The Renfrew Center Eating a feeding tube and came to Renfrew Disorder Clinic, aired in the Annenberg after ten hospitalizations. Her stay at Auditorium in the Snite Museum for a Renfrew was followed from beginning to packed audience that rode the emotional end and though she seemed to be mak­highs and lows of life with an eating dis­ing progress, like the other three order. patients she fell back into her old ways 
After watching the film it is hard to once released. believe that communities of that nature The failed attempts of each of these can truly cure a patient of his or her dis­women lead to questions about the ease. This view might be skewed by the effectiveness of an eating disorder clinic. director's choice to choose the most dra­One of the driving forces behind an eat­matic characters for the film, but the ing disorder is a sense of competition subjects chosen may really be accurate and a desire to be better than those examples of eating disorder victims. around you. In an especially poignant 
Alisa, 30, Brittany, 15, Polly, 29, and moment during a group therapy session, Shelly, 25, live harder lives than most. Polly carefully acknowledged this prob­Every day is spent denying their bodies lem by directly addressing Brittany for of healthy sustenance and their minds of trying to be the thinnest. Also, with a peace and order by purging and obsess­constant influx of new patients who start ing over the unreachable goal of being at ground zero and are horrified by the thin enough. thought of food, it's hard not to wonder 
Alisa, a divorced mother of two, how older patients can make spent 16 years suffering from progress. Yes, the community 
is supposed to be one of support and encourage­ment, but that seems 
too utopian for reality. 
Eating disorders are paradoxical in that people strive for the unachievable 
goal of being satis­
fyingly thin, which takes dying to get there, they can never be so be it." because they can­
Brittany said eat­not be satisfied. An ing disorders had eating disorder is been a part of her also paradoxical in life since the age that if you finally of eight when she win and are some­was told she was how satisfied, in overweight. Her reality you lose. parents' divorce You lose years of and her mom's happiness, peace, eating disorder adventure, fun, influenced her love and even own personal potentially your body image and life. May Alisa, insecurity and Brittany, Polly and she recalled Shelly's stories be memories of enough to show time spent that the only way with her mom to win is to love "chewing yourself. and spit­ting." She said, Adriana Pratt "I want to may be reached at purge, not apratt@nd.edu because I don't The views want the food expressed in this in me, but column are those of because I want the author and not to purge my necessarily those of feelings." The Observer. 
I 

' 
J 

does make the audience member con­By BRANDY CERNE front their own beliefs: Which ones do 
Scene Writer 

they believe to be actually true and 
which ones do they choose to believe 
Imagine a world where no one is for comfort's sake? able to lie, People unquestioningly Aside from religious debate, the believe everything everyone says, film also raises the question of because it must be true. To have whether total honesty is a good thing unflinching trust in everyone, to or not. Most characters were much never wonder what people are really unhappier before Mark told them thinking -that sounds pretty nice, small untruths to make them feel bet­right? ter. The film's message seems to be 
As shown in "The Invention of that lying does not necessarily solve Lying," sometimes we need those little problems, but can help somewhat so lies to help us get through the day. that people are not consistently rude 
Ricky Gervais is the co-writer, co­to each other. director and star of the comedy in the "The Invention of Lying" is incredi­role of screenwriter Mark Bellison. bly similar to 2008's "Ghost Town," Everyone believes Mark is a fat, short also starring Gervais. Both films are loser, and because they cannot lie, good but not great, semi-romantic they let him know that almost every comedies that star Gervais as a time they see him. Mark is alone in schlubby guy who tries to do good in his 40s and about to be fired and the world once he develops a special homeless, so his life is in a downward characteristic, whether it be seeing spiral when he discovers that he has ghosts or being able to lie. told the world's first lie. "The Invention of Lying" is very 
Determined that lying is his ticket funny in its first act, as it explores the out of loserville, Mark attempts to shockingly true but hilarious things manipulate his life to make it better. people would say to each other if He first starts with getting his job complete honesty was the only way. back. The only movies in this truthful However, as it sinks into the romantic on-screen world are lecture films, plot between Anna and Mark. the film because fiction does not exist. Thus, loses its satiric edge and becomes Mark fabricates an outlandish story pleasant but conventional. The film and claims it is newly discovered his­would be better if it had stuck with tory. Just like that, his career booms. exploring its concept to the fullest in 
Mark's main focus though, is his a comedic way. However, that is not to attempt to win over beautiful, out-of­say it is a bad movie. his-league Anna (Jennifer Garner). The idea of a world where no one Since he is no longer restricted to lies is fresh and interesting, and is telling the truth about his mediocre used in quite amusing ways in many life, he impresses her with heroic sto­parts, such as the fake Coke and ries. They do actually discover they Pepsi ads. The film has a great sup­have much in common, but Anna can­porting cast, including appearances not get past Mark's lack of good looks. by Tina Fey, Jonah Hill, Jason 
"The Invention of Lying" presents a Bateman, Edward Norton and many number of philosophical concepts, others. which was not to be expected from "The Invention of Lying" is a high­watching the trailer. The notions of concept comedy that could use a few heaven, hell and the existence of God tweaks, but overall has an amusing are all made up by Mark in the film. and original storyline. This could be offensive to those who are religious, as the film suggests that Contact Brandy Cerne at the core Christian concepts are lies. It bcernel@nd.edu 
The Invention of Lying 
Warner Bros. Pictures 
Director, Producer, Screenwriter: Ricky Gervais Starring: Ricky Gervais, Jennifer Garner, Tina Fey, Jonah Hill, Jason Bateman, Edward Norton, 

Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
NHL 

Penalty shot goal in second period lifts Senators 
Richards nets hat trick in Flyers victory over Capitals; Hurricanes' Ruutu's shootout score enough for win 
Associated Press 
TORONTO Daniel Alfredsson's second-period goal on a penalty shot gave the Ottawa Senators a 2-1 vic­tory over the Toronto Maple Leafs on Tuesday night. 
The Senators captain used a nifty backhand deke move against Swedish countryman Jonas Gustavsson to help lift his team to its first victory of the young season. Shean Donovan had the other goal for Ottawa (1-1-0). 
Matt Stajan scored the lone goal for the Maple Leafs (0-2­
1). 
After two losses with No. 1 goalie Vesa Toskala in net, Toronto gave Gustavsson his first career NHL start. The 24­year-old was steady in his debut but didn't get much help from the offense. 
Stajan found himself with a chance to tie the game in the closing seconds but was unable to get the puck past 
-Pascal Leclaire's outstretched pad. That helped secure Leclaire's first victory in an Ottawa uniform. Toronto lost rookie Viktor Stalberg to an injury in the first period. He was crushed by Anton Volchenkov while cruising into the Sens zone and didn't return for the final 40 minutes. The only goals to get past Gustavsson were scored 37 seconds apart in the second period. The Swedish goalie was on his back during a long scram­ble that ended with Donovan batting the puck out of the air and in at 6:45. The Sens fourth-liner was a healthy scratch in the season opener and displayed a big toothless grin on the bench after a video reviewed confirmed he didn't catch the puck with a high-stick. Leafs defenseman Luke Schenn and Francois Beauchemin were on the ice for the opening goal and remained out there when Milan Michalek took a break­away pass soon after. Schenn ended up catching the Sens winger with a high -stick while hauling him down, giving the Sens a penalty shot and a two­minute power play at the same time. Alfredsson took the attempt in place of Michalek and beat Gustavsson at 7:22. Earlier in the day, the Leafs goalie had said Alfredsson was one of his heroes when he was growing up. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Ottawa took the 2-0 lead into the third period, but soon saw the advantage narrowed. Tomas Kaberle found Stajan with a great cross-ice pass on the power play and the Leafs center one-timed it behind Leclaire at 5:36. 
Suddenly, Toronto found itself with some momentum. Mike Komisarek appeared to have the tying goal, but his blast from point caromed off both posts and out. 
Gustavsson was forced to stand tall when Schenn coughed the puck up to Michalek, giving his team a chance to tie the game. 
Flyers 6, Capitals 5 
Danny Briere pounced on a loose puck and knocked in the rebound at 3:52 of overtime to keep the Philadelphia Flyers perfect and lift them to a win over the Washington Capitals on Tuesday night. 
Mike Richards bested Alex Ovechkin with his second career hat trick to help the Flyers improve to 3-0 for the first time since the 1998-99 season. Ovechkin scored twice and has five goals already in three games this season for Washington (2-0-1). 
Ovechkin and Richards scored all their goals in a can­you-top-this second period. The teams scored seven times in the second, and Capitals goalie Semyon Varlamov was yanked for Jose Theodore. 
Alexander Semin scored twice for the Capitals. Matt Carle had four assists for the Flyers. 
Ovechkin and Richards turned the second period into a rapid-fire game of 1-on-1 that gave a sold-out crowd at the Flyers' home opener its money's worth. 
After a scoreless first, Richards took a fantastic pass from Carle and shot high from the red line 1:37 into the peri­od for the power-play goal to make it 1-0. 
Philadelphia's celebration was short-lived. 
The fans were just winding down from the replay when Ovechkin, who scored twice on opening night, scored his first goal thanks to a turnover and tied it only 67 seconds later. 
Ovechkin made it 2-2, and Richards had another goal on the power play that tied it at 3-all. 
Back-and-forth went two of the top young stars in the Eastern Conference: Ovechkin, the back-to-hack Hart Trophy winner, against the Flyers' orange-and-black clad fans. both on the power play. blossoming young captain. Briere, who missed most of The Hurricanes were play­

When Richards scored his last season due to groin and ing their first game since for­third goal of the period only abdomen injuries, bailed out ward Erik Cole, who is expect­18 seconds after his second Emery with his first goal. ed to be out 4-6 weeks, suf­and put it past Varlamov, the fered a broken leg in crowd burst into cheers. Fans Hurricanes 2, Lightning 1 Saturday's 7-2 road loss to the littered the ice with hats and The Hurricanes' Finnish Boston Bruins. caused a brief stoppage. connection had a big night Carolina won all six of the Richards pumped his fists and against the Tampa Bay teams' meetings last season. was mobbed by teammates Lightning, extending "It's a little mental right after giving Philadelphia a 4-3 Carolina's domination of its now," Tampa Bay coach Rick lead. Southeast Division rival. Tocchet said. "It was the sec­
Semin poked his third of the Tuomo Ruutu scored the ond game of the year. It's one season past Emery, and shootout-clincing goal after of those things where you Kimma Timonen's first was a former Lightning forward have to stick with it. You've wrister through teammate Jeff Jussi Jokinen scored his just got to free your mind. It's Carter's screen that put the team's only goal in regulation you against the goalie, that's Flyers ahead 2-1. as Carolina won Tuesday all it is. It's tough when you're 
No one played a bigger role night, extending the in a rut." in Richards' success than Lightning's RBC Center losing Jokinen, obtained in a trade Carle. The defenseman forced streak to seven games. with the Lightning in the turnover that led to Sergei Samsonov began the February, gave the Hurricanes Richards' third goal. He set a shootout by beating Tampa their first lead of the season Flyers record for assists in a Bay goalie Mike Smith, wrap­on their first power play at period by a defenseman and ping the puck around him left 13:12 of the first, scoring on a tied the NHL mark. to right, before Cam Ward rush off Joni Pitkanen's lead 
Carle had two points in the stopped the Lightning's Martin pass. first two games. St. Louis. Smith then stopped "It's a big win," Jokinen 
Semin tied it at 4 early in Jokinen, and after Vincent said. "The last two games we the third, and Brendan Lecavalier hit the right post didn't play as good as we Morrison put the Capitals the left-shooting Ruutu beat wanted, and I think we took a ahead when the puck bounced Smith to the stick side. big step. We could play better, off him and past Emery as he "I wasn't sure what I was but wins are what counts and skidded into the crease. going to do but it ended up it's a big win. Obviously when 
Scott Hartnell poked in a working out so that was pretty you play against your old deflection with 4:10 left in the good," Ruutu said. "I just had team there's an extra feeling third that gave the Flyers new to shoot somewhere. These there. It's nice to get a win life and would sent the game games are so tight right now." and nice to get a goal. It feels into overtime. The goal was The win was Carolina's first good." Philadelphia's third on the in three games this season, Tampa Bay tied it in a 5-on­power play. while Tampa Bay is 0-1-1. 3 at 6 minutes of the second, 
Emery, who had a shutout in Jokinen got the regulation as Malone scored on a his Flyers debut, was shaky in goal for Carolina while Ryan rebound of Steven Stamkos' his first game in front of the Malone scored for Tampa Bay, shot. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES 
1 bdrm apartment for rent right off campus. $390/mo. 574-243­7777 
2 BDRM APT. CLOSE TO NO. UTILITIES NOT INCL. CALL 313-382-0536 OR 574-386-3896 54684 TWYCKENHAM 

FoR SALE 
Ford 79 T-Bird 45K miles Orig. owner $8000 574-299-0925 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base appt., no experience needed, customer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
TICKETS 

HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victory1ickets.net 57 4-232-0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential sup­port or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more infor­mation, visit NOs website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http:1/csap.nd.edu 
Here comes the sun, here comes the sun, and I say it's all right Little darling, it's been a long cold lonely winter Little darling, it feels like years since it's been here Here comes the sun, here comes the sun and I say it's all right Little darling, the smiles returning to the faces Little darling, it seems like years since it's been here Here comes the sun, here comes the sun and I say it's all right Sun, sun, sun, here it comes.. . Sun, sun, sun, here it comes.. . Sun, sun, sun, here it comes.. . Sun, sun, sun, here it comes.. . Sun, sun, sun, here it comes.. . Little darling, I feel that ice is slowly melting 
-------------~---------------­

Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
AVCA Division 1 Women's Volleyball Top 25 
team previous 
1 Penn State (48) 1 2 Texas (9) 2 3 Washington (3) 3 4 Hawaii 7 5 Minnesota 8 6 Florida 11 7 Stanford 12 8 Michigan 10 9 Nebraska 13 10 Kentucky 14 11 Oregon 15 12 Illinois 17 13 Southern California RV 14 Iowa State 16 15 Calilornia 5 16 UCLA RV 17 Baylor 9 18 Michigan Stale 20 19 Florida Stale 21 20 long Beach State 19 21 St. Louis 4 22 Arizona 23 23 UClrvine 25 24 San Diego 6 25 Washington Stale RV 
NSCAA Women's 
Soccer Rankings, 

team previous 
1 Stanford (32) 1 2 North Carolina 2 3 UCLA 3 4 Portland 4 5 Aorida Stale 5 6 Boston College 6 7 Soulh Carolina 
8 8 NOTRE DAME 10 9 Purdue 12 10 Rutgers 13 11 Wake Forest 
9 
12 Virginia Tech RV 13 LSU 23 14 Florida 7 15 Santa Clara 11 16 UCF 21 17 TexasA&M 16 18 Georgia 22 19 Maryland 24 20 Arizona State 19 21 California 14 22 St.John's (N.Y,) 17 23 Southern Calitornia RV 24 Connecticut RV 25 Ohio State 15 
NSCAA Men's Soccer Rankings 

team previous 
1 Akron (23) 1 2 North Carolina 
5 3 South Florida ..6 4 UCLA . 4 5 california 7 6 Wake Forest 3 1 UC Santa Barb. 11 a Harvard 8 g Duke 14 10 Monmouth 10 
around the dial 
MLB 
Twins at Yankees 6 p.m., TBS 
Cardinals at Dodgers 
9:30 p.m., TBS 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
page 15 
MLB 


Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -Alexi Casilla singled home the winning run with one out in the 1 Zth inning and the Minnesota Twins rallied past Detroit 6-5 in the AL Central tiebreaker Tuesday night, completing a colossal col­lapse for the Tigers. 
The Tigers became the flrst team in major league history to blow a three-game lead with four games left. The Twins overcame a seven-game gap in the final montn, went 17-4 to pull even on the final weekend and won their fifth division title in eight years. 
Baseball's only real pen­nant race this season need­ed an extra game, and extra innings to fillish off a thriller that got better with every pitch. 
Both team had their chances to end it earlier, and each club scored in the 1Oth. Casilla was thrown out at the plate to end that inning by left fie_lder Ryan Raburn after taggmg up. 
Detroit thought it had taken the lead in the 12th. But with the bases loaded, plate umpire Randy Marsh ruled that Brandon lnge was not hit by a pitch by Bobby KeppeL The replay appeared to show the pitch grazing Inge's billowing uni­form. 
As Carlos Gomez streaked home from second with the winning run -well ahead of a late throw from right field -Homer Hankies spi­raled around the Metrodome. The Twins cele­brated and also started to scramble-they had 21 hours to get ready for Game 1 of the AL playoffs at Yankee Stadium against New York ace CC Sabathia. 
"lbis is the most unbeliev­able game I've ever played or seen," Twins shortstop Orlando Cabrera said. 
It was the first AL tiebreaker to go to extra innings, and made up for Minnesota's disappointment last October when it lost 1-0 in Olicago to the White Sox in an AL Central tiebreaker. 
Had the Twins lost, it would've been the final baseball game at the Metrodome. Instead, the Twins get the Yankees ­New York was 7-0 against Minnesota this season. 
A day after Brett Favre and the Minnesota VIkings beat the Green Bay Packers -"Monday Night Football" is what delayed this tiebreaker for a day -the Twins pulled off a Tuesday Night Thriller. 
Tigers reliever Fernando Rodney (2-5) worked his longest appearance of the season, getting the last two outs of ilie ninth. He gave up a single to Gomez to start the 12th, and the speedy center fielder -who came in for defense late in the game -moved up on a groundout. He came racing around for the winning run when Casilla's single made it through the right side of the infield. 
The Twins rushed out of the dugout in celebration even beTore Gomez reached the plate. Their comeback from a seven-game gap with 20 to play was complete. 
IN BRIEF 

Tigers' Cabrera apoloJ;!izes
for drunken 1nciilent 
MINNEAPOLIS-Detroit star Miguel Cabrera apologized to his teammates for being drunk last weekend while the Tigers were trying to clinch the AL Central title, then delivered two big hits in Tuesday's tiebreaker against Minnesota. 
The slumping Cabrera hit a double his first time up, then hit a two-nm homer that put the Tigers ahead 3-0 in the third inning. The winner of the one-game playoff advances to play the New York Yankees in the first round Wednesday. 
Before batting practice, Cabrera told reporters he was sorry for his actions and the stress he caused the organization. He insisted the alcohol consumption ­between two games the Tigers lost-didn't negatively affect his performance. 
Cabrera went 0 for 4 and stranded six runners in a 5-1 loss to Chicago on Saturday, a game that started about 12 hours after Tigers general manager Dave Dombrowski picked him up at a police sta­tion following a fight with his wife. 
49ers have conversations with first round pick Crabtree 
SAN FRANCISCO-Three top San Francisco 49ers executives met in person Tuesday with unsigned wide receiver and top draft pick Michael Crabtree and his agent. Eugene Parker. 
Team spokesman Bob Lange confirmed the meeting to The Associated Press but said the 49ers would not get into particulars of discussions or negotiations, though this development appears to be a positive step for both sides to getting something done. 
"The 49ers were pleased to meet with Michael and Eugene in person," Lange said. 
Crabtree and Parker sat down with team president Jed York, vice president of foot­ball operations Paraag Marathe and gener­al manager Scot McOoughan, Lange said. 
The former Texas Tech star is the only draft pick who has yet to sign, so this meet­ing could point to progress in him finally ending his contract impasse. It's not com­mon for a player to join in on such contract talks. 
Commissioner waits as authori­ties look into Raiders incident 
LYNDHURST, N.J. -NFL commis­sioner Roger Goodell said the league is watching as authorities investigate allegations that Oakland Raiders coach Tom Cable assaulted one of his assistants. 
"We're closely monitoring the case and will continue to monitor the case. We like to make sure we understand what all the facts are before we com­ment on it," Goodell said Tuesday during an NFL Play 60 event in New Jersey. 
"When the appropriate time comes, we will speak to the coach," the com­missioner said. "The personal con­duct rule applies to everyone in the NFL, from the commissioner to the players and including coaches. This is something we take very seriously." 
The district attorney's office in Napa County, Calif, said this week that it is reviewing the police report from the investigation. 
-~~­

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
NFL 

NFL to look into Edwards incident 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND -The NFL is investigating whether Cleveland Browns wide receiver Braylon Edwards violated the league's conduct policy following accusations he assaulted a man outside a nightclub. 
Edwards allegedly punched promoter Edward Givens, a friend of NBA star LeBron James, early Monday morning fol­
"We are looking into it. It 
lowing an into an argu­argument in is premature to ment with downtown Edwards.
speculate about potential 
Cleveland. Givens said
discipline.,
"We are Edwards looking into punched him it," league Greg Aiello on the left spokesman side of the
NFL spokesman
Greg Aiello said Tuesday in an e-mail to The Associated Press. "It is premature to speculate about potential dis­cipline." 
Although Edwards has not been charged with a crime, the league's conduct policy states that discipline may be imposed for "the use or threat of violence." 
Cleveland police are also looking deeper into the alle­gations against Edwards -at the request of city prosecutor Victor Perez's office. 
Edwards may also face team discipline from first­year Browns coach Eric Mangini, who earlier this season fined a player $1,700 for not paying for a $3 bottle of water during a hotel stay. 
"Personal conduct is very important to me," Mangini said Monday. "It's important for us and to the players. It's important today, it's impor­tant tomorrow." 
Edwards has not been available for comment. The Browns locker room will be open to the media on Wednesday before practice. 

Police spokesman Lt. Thomas Stacho said offieers were trying to collect infor­mation on the case and iden­tify possible witnesses. Stacho said he had no addi­tional information on how many other people might have been involved or if teammates of Edwards were at the scene. 
"That is information that we will try to get," Stacho said. 
Givens told the Plain Dealer that some unidentified Browns players were trying to pull Edwards back when he threw a punch. 
Mangini said he was still gathering information on the incident, which took place hours after the Browns fell to 0-4 with a 23-20 overtime loss to Cincinnati. Edwards had gotten into a skirmish with Bengals defensive line­man Pat Sims in the third and quarter and finished the 

game without a  reception - 
a first in his pro career.  
James  was  critical  of  

Edwards, ealling his actions "childish" for punching his friend, who told police he was working at View Ultralounge & Nightclub when he got 
face. 
Edwards 
has been 
involved in 

other off-l'ield incidents, a l'aetor eom­missioner Rognr Goodell con­siders when handing out any discipline. 
In March, Edwards was partying with suspended wide receiver Donie Stallworth in Miami the night Stallworth later drove drunk and killed a pedestrian. Edwards was not with Stallworth at the time of the accident. 
Last November, Edwards was fined $150 and given 30 hours of community service after he was found guilty of driving 120 mph. 
PGA 

Norman to be captain at Presidents 
Associated Press 

SAN FHANCISCO -Greg Norman couldn't hide the obvi­ous discomfort. He sat at a table Tuesday for the opening press conference at the Presidents Cup, his right arm suspended by a black brace from shoulder surgery a week ago. 
As for his heart? 
That he will keep to himself. 

Norman returns to the spot­light this week as captain of an International team that has never won on American soil. Adding to the attention was his statement four days ago that he has separated from tennis great Chris Evert, his wife of 15 months. 
lie went public on the eve of his big week because her absence from Harding Park would only lead to speculation. Now that he's hern, Norman was determined to keep his private life just that. 
'Tm not going to talk about any of my personal life right now," Norman said. "The situ­ation right now is we are here for the Presidnnts Cup, and it's all about the Presidents Cup, and my guys arc in a great state of mind about being posi­tive and getting out thnre and playing. And eome Thursday, they are going to perform. I know they will perform in a positive fashion." 
In one week, the Presidents Cup became about more than just golf. 
Along with Norman's announcement that he has sep­arated from his wife, Kenny Perry arrived in San Franciseo needing one big hug from his extended family on the PGA Tour. His mother, Mildred, died Thursday of blood cancer. The funeral was Saturday in Kentucky, and Perry deeided to play the Presidents Cup because his family insisted. 
"You hate to lose one of your heroes," Perry said. 
Even talking about her before only a half-dozen reporters, he worked hard to keep his emotions in check. He said his goal for the week was "not to bring the team down," yet he was inspired already by how his teammates have lifted him up. 
Emotion has worked its way into the Presidents Cup over the years. Jack Nicklaus was the captain in 2005 the year his 17-month-old grandson drowned in a hot tub. On the eve of the singles matches, the American players presented him an oil portrait of his beloved Jake, and the room filled quickly with tears. The next day, they delivered him the gold cup. 
This year, there is trouble in so many corners. 
Along with Norman's marital woes and Perry grieving over his mother, Phil Mickelson remains in the throes of a tough year as his wife and mother recover from breast cancer. It remains doubtful that Amy Miekelson will join the wives this week. 
Few other golfers have dealt with as much loss as Norman over the years, mostly inside the ropes. While he is in the llall of Fame on the strength of some 75 victories around the world and two British Open titles, the Shark is renowned for being the only player in his­tory to lose all four majors in a playoff. Even last year at 53, with Evert at his side on a hon­eymoon like no other, he was in the lead going to the back nine of the British Open until he stumbled to a tie for third. 
Someone suggested that this time, Norman's team would be there to pick him up. 
The first question to Geoff Ogilvy alluded to Norman's "public announcement" and whether players could sympa­thize with what he is going through. 
"What's he going through?" Ogilvy said in a subtle chal­lenge to the reporter. Once he forced the reporter to mention the separation, Ogilvy said it was the first time all day he had heard it brought up. Then came a clarification. 
"First time I heard of it was when he (Norman) came out of here early on and was wonder­ing why we were all talking about that and not the golf tournament," Ogilvy said. 
"He's a big boy and he can handle everything that's going on with his life," Ogilvy said later. "It has not been dis­cussed until I walked in this tent, and I don't even think it's an issue." 
That's just how Norman wants it. 
He is in charge of an eelectic team from eight eountries on four continents. That includes 46-year-old Vijay Singh, who already is in the Hall of Fame, and 18-year-old Hyo Ishikawa of Japan, the youngest player ever in these matches. 
They are playing under a fabricated flag the International team represents every country outside the United States except for those in Europe -and for a captain who still has one of the highest profiles in golf. 
Perhaps this is the time for players to rally around a cap­tain. 
THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FILM SERIES EUROPEAN SHAKESPEARE THURSDAYJ OCTOBER 8TH 7:00 PM, Browning Cinema DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER KOROL LIR (KINGLEAR) Directed by Grigori Kozintsev With music by Dmitri Shostakovich FILM INTRODUCTION BY BARBARA HODGDON Professor of English, University of Michigan Distinguished Professor Emerita, Drake University Author of The ShakespeiJre Trade: PerformiJnces iJnd ApprormMions Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 sen1or citizens. $3 all students. 574-631-2800 I performlngarts.nd.edu Co-sponsoN:!d by the Nanovic Institute far European Studies, Shakespeare at Notre Dame, and the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. ~ SHAKESPEARE I$1UNIVERSITYOI'~DEBARTOLOJlll!r"i AT NOTRE DAME ~ PERfORMING ARTS CENTER WNOTREDAME  


Wednesday, October 7, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Closers key to success in tight NL playoffs 
43 on save chances for St. Isringhausen struggled after
Associated Press 
Louis. He overcame a blip in pitching in the 2005 playoffs 
Arms thrust to the sky on September when he blew for the Cardinals, though his that October night, Brad three straight tries, and is troubles were nothing com­Lidge was the picture of post­heading into his first postsea­pared with Lidge's downfall. season perfection. son. Lidge converted all 48 save 
This year, he's having a "You've got to be careful chances last year, capped tough time getting anyone with numbers, trying to make when he struck out Eric out. a point, but I think in the Hinske in Game 5 to clinch 
"In the closer role, it's feast case of a closer when you the World Series for or famine," Los Angeles have a success Philadelphia. Angels relief ace Brian rate like This year, he Fuentes said. "When you Ryan's, that's a led the majors
"Don't let anybody fool 
have this job, you understand real reflection with 11 blown that you're going to be under of how consis­you, getting three outs saves (in 42 pressure, and you can't let it tent he's been," chances) and
in the ninth with a 
affect you. You're going to go Cardinals man­was 0-8 with
three-run lead is not 
out and do your job, and ager Tony La a 7.21 ERA. 
hopefully it works out." Russa said. automatic." "Most of the Especially now, when all "Don't let time it either the attention is focused on anybody fool has to do with
Tony La Russa 

the late innings. Imagine how you, getting injury or
Cardinals coach 

many titles the Atlanta three outs in fatigue. Izzy's Braves might've won if they'd the ninth with case was the been able to rely on a a three-run hip and I'm Mariano Rivera, rather than lead is not an automatic. It's sure Brad went through an the likes of Mark Wohlers, a very difficult three outs and injury prior," La Russa said. Jeff Reardon and Charlie when you have a guy that's "Then, if your club is really Leibrandt. Heck, even John outstanding, the confidence good, you get out there a lot, Rocker pitched 20 2-3 post­that it gives your ballclub as you get a little fatigued men­season innings without allow­you through the game is hard tally, physically. It's a real ing an earned run. to measure, but it's there," demanding job. There's 
Ryan Franklin is about to he said. humongous pressure." find out how it feels. An All­La Russa has seen the toll it Manager Charlie Manuel Star this year, he went 38 for takes on the pitchers. Jason stopped using Lidge as his 
closer as the Phillies got close to clinching the NL East. Manuel said starters 
J.A. Happ and Joe Blanton will help out in the bullpen when their playoff series starts against Colorado on Wednesday, and hasn't com­mitted to how he'll use Lidge. 
"My philosophy is to win the game. The game is more important than my heart. That's why I manage," Manuel said Tuesday. "I feel I've got to do the things that put us in the best position to win a game. If I think Brad Lidge can get people out, without a doubt. I'm sure there's going to come a time when he's definitely going to be out on the mound." 
Los Angeles Dodgers closer Jonathan Broxton and Colorado's Huston Street have had mixed results in limited postseason action. They would like to duplicate the success of Jonathan Papelbon -the Boston relief ace has not allowed a run in 25 career postseason innings. 
Rivera, however, remains the gold standard, a sure thing for the New York 
Yankees for more than a decade. 
"We have the greatest clos­er of all time," teammate Mark Teixeira praised. 
Rivera has a postseason record 34 saves, with an 0. 77 ERA in 117 1-3 innings, and has broken far more bats than given up runs. 
Rivera went 44 for 46 on save chances this season. To Teixeira, about to play his first postseason with the Yankees, Mighty Mo's value far exceeds his numbers. 
"We know that if we can get a one-run lead, any way, however we have to do it, whether we get it early, whether we get it late, if we can get that one-run lead to Mariano, he's going to close it out for us," Teixeira said. 
"We don't have to panic. We don't have to worry about scoring too many runs. We don't go crazy -if we don't get a big hit in the first inning, it's not the end of the world. We know we have chances, and, like I said, if we can just get that one-run lead, that's what it takes," he said. 

wondrous: Life of. Oscar Wao 
Junot Diaz 
World VIew m an initiative from the Office of lhe President lo promote c;ons1ructive r;F.] l! ~IV lc k lH 'f t 01' 
P'7JDEBARTOLO 
dialogue about issues of race, class, ethrncity, reii(Jion, and gender through the arts. ~NOTRE DAME ~ Pl:~..WSCtHTB 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
MLB 

Sabathia to take the mound for Game One 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -CC Sabathia was fantastic in his first regular season with the New York Yankees. Now, it's time for him to earn that $161 million con­tract. 
The big lefty will start New York's playoff opener Wednesday night, with the heavy weight of World Series expectations resting squarely on his thick shoulders. One of baseball's most durable aces, Sabathia has struggled in the postseason. going 2-3 with a 
7.92 EHA in five starts with Cleveland and Milwaukee. 
"This is what you come here for, to get that opportunity to get to win a championship," Sabathia said Tuesday after a workout at Yankee Stadium. "We had a great year so far. We just have to keep it going." 
Sabathia joined the Yankees as a free agent last December and signed a huge contract to match his 6-foot-7, 290-pound frame. His seven-year deal was part of a $423.5 million spend­ing spree that also brought Mark Teixeira and A.J. Burnett to New York. 
With those dollars come extra-large expectations -and plenty of pressure. Back in the playoffs after a one-year hiatus, Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera and the Yankees are favorites to win their 27th World Series title and first since 2000. 
It won't be easy if Sabathia flops in October again. 
''I'm definitely excited. But like, I said this earlier, the opening day with the new Yankee Stadium and me being the free agent and the games against Boston, there and in here, I think all of those moments have helped me to prepare and led me up to this moment," Sabathia said. "Some of those games we played against Boston are like playoff games. That opening day prob­ably felt like tomorrow night will. So I've had these experi­ences over the year, and I think I'm ready for it." 
Of course, Sabathia and the Yankees still weren't sure which team they would face in the first round. 
The winner of Tuesday's AL Central tiebreaker between Detroit and Minnesota will open the playoffs Wednesday in New York, the first postseason game at the new Yankee Stadium. 
"I expect the fans to be ready to go," Johnny Damon said. 
Holding home-field advantage throughout the postseason, the AL East champions had the choice of starting Wednesday or Thursday at 6:07 p.m. EDT against the Tigers-Twins win­ner. New York picked to get going right away with a series that has an extra day off between Games 1 and 2. 
Several players said they'd probably put the Detroit­Minnesota game on television when they got home, but wouldn't necessarily watch the whole thing closely. 
"I just want a team we end up beating," Damon said. "It's a great advantage. It's one of the reasons we played so hard all year to get as many wins as we could." 
The 29-year-old Sabathia helped the Yankees (103-59) build the best record in base­ball this year. Stepping in smoothly at the top of the rota­tion, he went 19-8 to tie for the major league lead in wins. lie also ranked fourth in the AL in ERA (3.37) and innings pitched (230). 

The 2007 AL Cy Young Award winner had a chance to win 20 games for the first time, but he was roughed up for a season­high nine runs -five earned ­
and  eight  hits  over  2  2-:~  
innings in  his final  start at  
Tampa Bay.  

Still, the high-scoring Yankees are confident with Sabathia on the mound. 
"I feel good about where CC is right now," manager Joe Girardi said. "One of the things that WI~ tried to do in the month of SP.ptember is slow his innings down. We believe that's going to be b1~nef'i1:ial. Every time you go through the post­season as a player you learn something about yourself and ways to handle situations bnt­ter." 
Alex Hodriguez is anotlwr Yankens star looking to put playoff failures behind him. 
Sabathia, hownver, has a simple explanation for his own post­season problems. 
"I think maybe just trying to go out and do too much," he said. "Trying to go out and throw shutouts and throw no­hitters and things likP that instead of going out and doing the samn things I've done dur­ing the regular season which is throwing strikes early in the count." 
Sabathia has allowed 22 walks and :n hits in 25 post­season innings. He struggled in October the past two years aftnr throwing 241 innings dur­ing the 2007 regular season and 253 in 2008. 
This time, his workload was less taxing. 
"It's a good thing," Sabathia said. "The last couple of times I had a week in between starts. It dnlinitely helps just to get that mental break of bPing abln to come to the field and relax for a eouple of days." 
Now, the pressure is on. 


Ayou want. DiACUAA aAlonQ ~" haA Free Incomin~ Cat~. OnlY u.s. Cellula at any ttme. 
P. ~ont anyone · ' ee
TextA and IX 11· . n th.e ph.one lA11r • l" "'aL' th.e ttme o
so near.;,.. 11 
getusc.com 
<-~U.S. Ce~ul~~ better·
r· 
believe In some 

Wednesday, October 7, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 
NBA looking to expand to London 
the last "We hope to do it. thing with the chances. We're running out of union, but they "We're run­know how to
runway, but we will
ning out of reach us."
likely do it."
runway, but Last year, we will likely Stern said there do it." would be cut­
David Stern 

The NBA backs at the
NBA commisioner 
Information Session on Study Abroad Programs in China: Beijing, Shanghai & Hong Kong 
Wednesday, October 7, 5:30p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 For Academic Year 2010-2011., Fall 2010 or Spring 2011 

of hires with respect to interna­tional." 
Stern also said that revenues would be down, but that was because teams have been low­ering ticket prices to accommo­date fans who are also suffer­ing from the bad economy. 
"Revenues will be down somewhere between 2.5 and 5 percent," said Stern, who then noted that the NBA was doing a good job of weathering the cri­sis. "We feel pretty good about our place at this difficult time." 
The 2012 Olympics has long been seen as a way to spread the word of basketball in London and beyond, but Stern also said that he would likely follow up the 2010 World Cup in South Africa with expansion on that continent. 
"Kids around the world are watching our game," Stern said. "They watch the great players and they say, 'I want to be like them."' 
Stern also talked about Michael Jordan's speech at the Hall of Fame, when the former Bulls great mentioned several people that may have slighted him in the past. 
"He looks for the motivation -not uncommon in our league," Stern said. "And I think that is what drove him to probably be the greatest com­petitor in the history of our game." 
page 19 

MLB 
Carpenter and Wolf to face off
Associated Press 
LONDON -The NBA is still planning to play a regular-sea­son game in London before the 2012 Olympics are hosted by the British capital, although commissioner David Stern said Tuesday that there is no set schedule. 
Stern has said that he wants to play a meaningful game at London's 02 Arena, where the Chicago Bulls beat the Utah Jazz 102-101 in a preseason game Tuesday. 
"We hope to do it," Stern said, noting that 2010 and 2011 would be 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Handy Wolf has seen a lot in his 11-year career, just never the playoffs. He's finally getting a chance in the sta­dium where he watched the Los Angeles Dodgers as a kid. 
The 33-year-old left-bander proved to be the most consistent starter for the repeat NL West champions, although be quickly rejects the label of staff ace. 
"I almost despise that word," Wolf said Tuesday. "A guy like Chris Carpenter, you could consid­er him an ace. He's done it year in, year out. He's the guy who is almost a perennial top-five Cy Young voting guy." 
Carpenter will start for the NL Central champion St. Louis Cardinals in Game 1 Wednesday night against Wolf. The 2005 Cy Young winner is a strong con­tender again this season, boasting a 17-4 record and a NL-best 2.24 ERA. 
Wolf describes himself in less lofty terms. 
''I've kept the team in the game," he said. "With this staff, we could have an ace on any given day. That's why I don't like to use that term. It's just try to pitch as well as you can, that's the key." 
Wolf proved durable this season, setting career highs with 34 starts and 2141-3 innings just two years after lasting half a season for the Dodgers because ofinjury. 
He ended the regular season strongly, going 6-1 in his final nine starts with a 2.51 ERA. Overall, he was 11-7 with a 3.23 ERA that was second on the staff to Oayton Kershaw's 2.79. 
Kershaw will start Game 2 on Thursday, while Adam Wainwright goes for the Cardinals. 
The Dodgers open the series with two pitchers who lack playoff experience, between Wolf and Kershaw, a 21-year-old left-ban­der. Manager Joe Torre went with the two lefties because the Cardinals batted .234 against southpaws compared to .274 against right-banders. 
"Wolfs excited. You'll see him snatch the ball back from Hussell Martin, and that's why he is who be is," Torre said. 
"Kershaw, we've spent the bet­ter part of two years trying to pro­tect him and insulate him from all this exposure because he's just a kid. Then you hand him the ball (last) Saturday and say, 'Here, kid,' and he comes back with a division title. He's pretty well not anybody to be concerned about." 
Wolf spent eight seasons with Philadelphia, enduring his share of runner-up finishes and playoff misses. Then he missed the Dodgers' playoff run last season, which ended in the NLCS against the Phillies. 
"You obviously start feeling like there's some kind of a jinx even though I'm not a big believer in that, but luckily that went away," he said. 
Wolf couldn't have predicted his success in the offseason, when he thought he would be returning to the Houston Astros. That didn't work out and the Dodgers stepped in to sign him for a second stint about a week before spring train­ing began. 
"I was happy to have that oppor­tunity to come to LA again, and I felt that I owed them something," said Wolf, who grew up in the San Fernando Valley. "I felt I had some unfinished business." 
He got off to a rocky beginning with a 5-6 record, a 3.55 ERA and 13 no-decisions in his first 24 starts. Coincidentally, his luck seemed to turn around the All­Star break when he switched his jersey from No.. 21 to 43, and won that day. 
"I always wanted No. 43. It was the number I had in Philly for a long time," Wolf said. 
Carpenter had his own share of problems, missing nearly all the previous two seasons to injuries. He was 2-0 with 1.20 ERA against the Dodgers this season. 
"He has a bunch of weapons, so he can pitch to all areas," manag­er Tony La Russa said. "He com­petes like a maniac, he's a com­plete guy." 
Carpenter takes no comfort in the fact that Dodgers slugger Manny Ramirez comes into the playoffs having batted .218 with four home runs and 14 RBis in his last 25 games. 
"If you ever take Manny Ramirez for granted, you're crazy, no matter what he's swinging," Carpenter said. ''I'm not con­cerned if Manny is 0 for 50. He can hit. You go out and you contin­ue to execute your game plan, that's it." 
Ramirez tailed off after return­ing from a 50-game suspension for violating baseball's drug policy. He was hitting .348 with six homers and 20 RBis before sitting out. He returned to hit .269 with 13 homers and 43 RBis in 77 games 
Ramirez is baseball's all-time postseason home run leader with 
28. His 7 4 RBis are second only to former New York Yankees star Bernie Williams' 80. 
"He tries to get too big and really it affects his balance,'' Torre said. "He just has to think more in terms of smaller, like the line drive instead of long way. Usually the long ball will come when you sort of get yourself back in rhythm." 
Torre announced his starting lineup for Game 1, with Ramirez hitting in the cleanup spot. He chose infielder Hannie Belliard (hitting .351 since coming from Washington) over All-Star Orlando Hudson (.284). 
"He doesn't have as wide a range as Hudson does, but I think offensively he's maybe a little fresher right now," Torre said. "We asked 0-Dog to do a lot of stuff early in the year. We'II go day-to-day right now." 
La Russa declined to identifY his starters, saying the biggest issue remained who will play center field against the left-handed Wolf. 
Right-hander Joel Pineiro will start Game 3 in St. Louis, while the Dodgers will go with righty Vicente Padilla. Torre said All-Star right­hander Chad Billingsley would start Game 4 if necessary. 
was playing in London for the third straight year, and the game at the 02 was again sold out. Although this year's trip to Europe was cut down from previous visits, the Jazz still have one more game to play on Thursday against Real Madrid in the Spanish capital. 
''I'd love to play here," said Bulls forward Luol Deng, who was raised in London after his family fled war-torn Sudan. "I won't be surprised if that hap­pens." 
The NBA is also playing pre­season games in other coun­tries, including Taiwan and Mexico. 
Stern also spoke about the global economic downturn and the talks with the referees union. The NBA has locked out the regular referees because of a contract dispute. 
"A<> far as I know, there have been no further conversations with the union," Stern said. "Right now we are not dis­cussing any­
NBA because of 
the financial 

crisis, but this year he said his organization had been hiring overseas employees. 
"We have been hiring. Stealth hiring, so don't tell anybody," said Stern, who would only say the NBA has hired more than 10 and less than 50 new people in the last year. "Suffice it to say that we've made a number 
Write Sports. E-mail Matt atmgamber@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
Bye 
continued from page 24 
While the bye week affords Notre Dame's regular starters opportunities for light practices and extended recovery time, it also gives the Irish a chance to get back to hard-hitting drills in an effort to improve basic skills. 
"[We're] stressing not only fundamentals but also physi­cality, tackling, blocking, cutting -all those things," Weis said. ''I'll be interested when I watch this tape because there's a lot of bang­ing going on there for the last 45 minutes." 
As for other injury updates, fullback James Aldridge should also be ready for the USC game, Weis said. The senior has been out since the season-opening victory over Nevada with a shoulder injury. 
"He actually practiced full­go here for the first time [Tuesday]," Weis said. "It was the first time he's been exposed to using those shoul­ders and everything. It didn't look like there were any side effects of what he just went through in practice." 
Junior backup kicker Brandon Walker and fresh­man reserve tight end Tyler Eifert are both battling back injuries and aren't close to returning, Weis said. Walker "wouldn't be able to kick good enough to even consid­er putting him on the field at this time," Weis said, and Eifert is likely done for the year in a move that will both protect his health and pre­serve a year of eligibility. 
Weis also said sophomore backup linebackers Anthony McDonald and David 


Posluszny were "groggy" and would not return to the prac­tice field until passing a standard cognitive test. 
Note: 
uFreshmen who have seen game action will be available to the media Wednesday for 
the first time since the regu­lar season began. Check out The Observer's Thursday and Friday editions for stories on several of Notre Dame's top newcomers. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's falls to Calvin in three 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Wrirer 
Despite a tough loss to con­ference rival No. 11 Calvin, Saint Mary's did a lot of good last night, raising money for breast cancer with their annual Dig for the Cure event. 
Thn official amount of donations has yet to be 
Plas and Rebecca Kamp lead the Knights with 11 kills each. 
Despite the rough outing in front of a large crowd, head coach Toni Kuschel was able to pull several positives away from the match. 
"We played well tonight and were able to accomplish the things we have been working on in practice," Kuschel said. "Our middle 
blockers were 
determined, able to take
"We played well
but fans and away a lot of 
players on tonight and were able the court so both sides to accomplish the our defense were able to could do its
things we have been 
band together job."
working on in
and support Despite solid one of the practice." play, however, most noble of the Belles just causes. never seemed
Toni Kuschel
Thn Belles to garner any
Belles coach 
3-5

(7-9, 
MIAAJ lost the match 25-13, 25-22, and 25­21, and have dropped three matches in a row and are not going to find relief soon as they have two more tough matches this week against Trine and Adrian. 
Notable performers from last night's loss included Lorna Slupczynski, Andrea Sasgen and Stephanie Bodien. Slupczynski led the team with 11 kills while Sasgen and Bodien followed closely behind with 8 and 6 kills respectively. 
On the other side of the net, sophomores Erin Vander 
momentum, especially after losing the first set 25-13. 
"We  were  never  able to  
capture  a  good  lead,"  
Kuschel added.  

After improved perform­ances in the last two sets, however, Kuschel is not wor­ried about the direction of her team. 
"We have two more tough match ups this week," she said. "And if we play our game like we did tonight we will end up with two big wins." 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
NHL 

Minnesota storms back from 3-0 deficit to beat Anaheim 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. -Andrew Brunette's power-play goal in overtime lifted the Wild to a 4-3 win over the Anaheim Ducks on Tuesday night in Minnesota's home opener. 
Trailing 3-0 with less than 14 minutes to play in the third, the Wild got goals from Mikko Koivu, Petr Sykora and Eric Belanger to send the game to overtime. 
The Ducks got second period goals from Joffrey Lupul, Evgeny Artyukhin and Saku Koivu but were held to just two shots in the final 20 minutes of regulation as Minnesota rallied. 
It was an exciting start for Minnesota with Todd Richards coaching his first regular season game in his home state for the Wild, who are now 8-0-1 all-time in home openers since joining the NHLin 2000. 
Looking to bounce back after being thumped 4-1 by San Jose at the Honda Center on Saturday, the Ducks instead saw a seemingly secure lead slip away. 
With the teams skating four-on­four in overtime, Anaheim's James Wisniewski was penalized for roughing during a post-whistle skirmish. Brunette poked a puck past Ducks goalie Jean-Sebastien Giguere on the ensuing power play for the Wild's first win of the season. 
Lupul, who returned to Anaheim in the June trade that sent star defenseman Chris Pronger to Philadelphia, opened the scoring with his first goal of the season near the five-minute mark of the second, tipping a Ryan Whitney shot past Minnesota goalie Nicklas Backstrom. Less than a minute later Lupul was helped from the ice after going down to block an Antti Miettinen shot and getting hit in the face by the puck. He returned to the game after receiving stitches over his right eyebrow. 

Artyukhin and Saku Koivu scored in quick succession later, building a 3-0 lead for the Ducks. 
Giguere, who has made a habit of frustrating the Wild in his career, looked solid for two peri­ods, and shakier in the third, fin­ishing with 28 saves. 
Richards, who was hired for his first NHL head coaching job by new general manager Chuck Fletcher over the summer, has talked of instilling a more wide­open game than Minnesota fans are used to after nearly a decade with defensive-minded Jacques Lemaire running the show. Things were more wide-open on Tuesday, but instead of creating offense for Minnesota, the Wild often looked uncharacteristically disorganized on defense through the first two periods. Held to just 17 shots through the first 45 minutes, the Wild offense fmally cranked into gear late. 
Backstrom finished with 16 saves for Minnesota. 

.--------------~------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 7, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

~--------­
1 page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 7, 2009
1 
============================================================================= 
"But you talk about that Notre 
The situation is not ideal for team be able to stay in their Dame fighting spirit and refusing 
pulling out a road win. game for 90 minutes and
Golf 
Clark 

to give up. He came back with 73 
"We would rather not do it, show some consistency and continued from page 24 
and 72. That's probably as good 
continued from page 24 but it is just one of those determination. as anyone can shoot out there in 
things that you have to do," An example of consistency just was great to do it at home. tough conditions." 
technical players and we play Clark said. for the Irish has been Justin The kids worked so hard over Notre Dame's fourth score in 
good technical soccer. If you The Irish sit in fourth place Morrow, who earned Big East the last couple years, and no one the last round came from sopho­
watch us play we pass the in the Blue division of the Big weekly honors for his per­really noticed because we didn't more Chris Walker, whose 7 4 put 
ball a lot and not just for the East Conference and are hop­formance in last weekend's 2­have the results but they were him at 12-over par on the tour­
sake of passing." ing for a win to advance up in 1 win over Seton Hall. working hard and they never lost nament, good enough for a tie 
The Irish hold the all-time the standings, but Clark Morrow was partly responsi­faith. It was really special today." for 24th place. Junior Jeff Chen 
advantage against Marquette, wants the team to keep things ble for a give-away that The Irish shot 30-over as a also competed individually for 
having gone 10-5-1 in the in perspective and take one resulted in Seton Hall's only team for a score of 870 to beat the Irish, and his three-round 
series with a 31-26 advantage game at a time. goal in the first half, but he out Ohio State (+34/874), 13-over par put him in a tie for 
in goals. Last year the Irish "It is very important to us was able to recover and score Arkansas (+38/878), Texas 28th place. 
defeated Marquette 4-1 at just to get more wins," Clark the game-winner in the sec­Arlington (+43/883) and Lamar The Irish finished 15th last 
Notre Dame, and the year said. "We just need to concen­ond half. (+441884). year in their home match, but 
before the Irish defeated trate on playing well." "Morrow's game on Friday Sandman paced the Irish and the home-course advantage 
Marquette 1-0 in Milwaukee. Recent troubles for the Irish was bittersweet," Clark said. claimed his first collegiate indi­helped Notre Dame to their first 
The Irish are 4-4 all-time at have centered on their ability "He was partially responsible vidual title, shooting two-over tournament victory this season, 
Marquette. to put two good halves togeth­for a goal in the first half, but par through the three-round aided by the work put in by the 
Marquette is coming off a 1-er into a complete game. he showed the character to tournament. His opening round players in the days leading up to 
0 loss to West Virginia last "We played well in the sec­not let that bother him and 70 and second round 68 gave the Fighting Irish Classic. 
weekend and is hungry for a ond half against Seton Hall, got another goal in the second him the lead going into Tuesday, "The guys really did an excel­
win in a season that has seen but not so well in the first half." and despite starting plus-five on lent job preparing this week," 
very few. The task for the half," Clark said. "I do not The Irish hope to see this the fust five holes during his last Kubinski said. "They were out 
Irish is even more difficult think we have strung two resiliency tonight at 7 p.m. round, Sandman was able to there taking notes of the slopes 
because they have to travel by good halves together in a shoot one-under over the last 13 of the greens and hitting extra 
bus to Wisconsin during the row." Contact Jared Jedick at to claim victory. chips and putts after classes. 
middle of a week of classes. Clark would like to see the jjedick@nd.edu 
"He's just been so close so They put all the work in, so I many times," Kubinski said. "The think we definitely had an maturity and the leadership to advantage and it gave us that lit­play the last 13 holes at one­tle lift." 
Senior Patty Duffy played they showed improvement under was just beautiful. I'm just The first-place finish gives the 
all 90 minutes in goal for on all fronts including
Belles 
so happy for him because I think Irish momentum as they contin­
the Belles making 8 saves working together as a it can take him to another level ue moving towards their goal of 
continued from page 24 while only allowing one team that will be neces­now. He doesn't have to wonder an NCAA tournament appear­
goal. sary to propel them if he can win, because he has." ance, but the celebration cannot 
Trine but put up a tough Despite foot injuries that through the rest of their Sophomore Max Scodro was last long as they travel to La 
fight until Calvin broke the have hampered her conference schedule. Notre Dame's second-highest fin­Quinta, Calf. to compete in The 
scoreless tie in the second throughout parts of her The Belles defense was isher, placing in a tie for 1Oth Presitge at the PGA West, a 
half with a winning goal career Duffy has been a able to help out Duffy by after a final-round 70. three-day tournament which 
from Carly Prins in the staple for the Belles on keeping less than half of 'To shoot 70 out there and just begins Oct. 11. 
59th minute of the game. defense each of the last Calvin's shots on goal play the way he did as it got "We're in great shape so far for 
Saint Mary's was able to two seasons totaling 81 throughout the game windier was incredible," the NCAA's, and our ranking will 
come together as a team saves last season, her first despite the miserable Kubinski said. "I was just thrilled shoot up," Kubinski said. "I think 
and play strong for the full full season as a starter. weather conditions. to see that play and it really just we've got a really good test this 
90 minutes which was a The Belles were outshot The Belles will next host came together at the end." coming week. We'd like to be 
stumbling block for them in the game 22-2, having Alma College on Saturday Also scoring on the day for the able to enjoy this for while, but 
most of this season. only one shot in each half, beginning at noon. Irish was junior Connor Alan­we have to bounce back quickly. 
"We were very organized while Calvin tallied 9 in "We need to eome out Lee, who after shooting an open­We can't enjoy this for too long 
and disciplined for the the first half and 13 in the and get 3 points in the ing round 80 bounced back and because [the field at The 
entire 90 minutes," Crabbe second half. conference standings," recorded a 72, Notre Dame's sec­Prestige] is so good. We hope to 
said. "Some players who Corissa Hart tallied the Crabbe said. "We need to ond-best score on the last eight­go out there and have a chance 
are used to more playing only shot on goal for the score first and play ahead een holes. to win." 
time or having a greater Belles in the game. for 90 minutes." "[Alan-Lee] shot 80 in the fust 
role had to sacrifice their While the Belles were not round, and it's so easy to give up Contact Eric Prister at 
spot in order to make able to score a goal for the Contact Kate Grabarek at at that point," Kubinski said. eprister@nd.edu 
today's approach work." eight time this season, kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
that it just wasn't going to be their day. But after missing the entire
Sand01an 

2008-09 campaign recovering continued from page 24 
from back surgery, there was no 
way Sandman was going to let his that could only be exhibited by a best opportunity to win a tourna­player who has been through it ment in his five years slip away. all. On the sixth tee, everything 
After an outstanding first two seemed to change. rounds that left him two under The clouds broke, the sun came par and four strokes ahead ofthe out, Sandman stripped off his field, the wheels came off for GoreTex, and began an entirely Sandman from the very beginning new round of golf. ofa rainy round three. His final13 holes were nearly 
Three consecutive bogeys on flawless. the first three holes brought Sandman righted the ship on Sandman back over par for the the front nine, closing out with tournament, and after a par on four straight pars for a 5-over 40. the par-3 4th, his tee shot found On the back nine, Sandman the fairway on the 518 yard par-5 took back control of the tourna­5th, as much ofa birdie hole as ment. After a par on 10 and a the Warren Course has to offer. lone bogey on the difficult 245­
But after his second shot found yard par-3 11th, Sandman was the trees to the right ofthe green, mistake free in his final seven his poke out traveled to just in holes. front of the small bunker that With birdies on both tl1e par-3 guards the front of the green. 14th and par-5 17tl1 holes down Though always one to wear his the stretch, and a key par putt on emotions on his sleeve, Sandman's 18, Sandman fmished up with a frustration with his round seemed respectable four-over par 7 4 for to escalate with each stoke. the day, one-under par on the 
He left his chip in the bunker, fmal 13 holes after his nearly dis­left his bunker shot short ofthe astrous start. green, and then managed an up His two-over 212 for the tourna­and down for a double bogey ment was good for a two stroke seven. victory, and with the monkey now 
Iowa's Vmce India, also paired off his back, and the adversity of a in the final group, began the day shaky start overcome, don't be eight strokes behind Sandman but surprised ifit's his frrst of many erased that deficit entirely in this season. those first five holes, paring a string of three consecutive birdies Contact Jan Gavlick at on holes 3-5 against Sandman's igavlick@nd. edu struggles. The views expressed in this 
Five holes, five over par, and his column are those ofthe author 36-hole lead had vanished. and not necessarily those ofThe Most players would concede Obseruer. 

Wednesday, October 7, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CI:'::.LimRfrtF.S .BORN ON TillS f)AY: H:tllllilh Sndttes. 19: Amy Jo lulm%m. J?: Eli;;a beth Shu~, 4(;; Hrill Eklaml, fii 
Uappy Bb111da~ : lfs tim.; wj\¢1 yQnr dlldt5 In ~ mw tlnan~lally. enKoti•:>nally aud vnysl· cally. Sla.rt with your lmm' aud pe.rsouallifc aud follow !hrn~•J!b by n.mkin1;1 the ""II illlJXt)Venwnt> that will btlOSl your eoufidetl<:e. Set your bndj\et.life and ~.ools to sttil your needs instead oftryin;1: to please everyone around you. Ymrr nunkrs are 6, 10, 19, 24,1S. .\6,42 
ARli'Ji (!i.·tareb ll·Apri119)' Ymtremphasis should be on work and j!elling along with th~ pe<>ple you d<.' bu•ine~; with. A challenge b likely tc> appe.ar quik suddenly and a fasl reac · ti'm n11 ~-nur part will be I:IC""'"'Ht:' w av<lid trouble btt"r <>II. *** 
TAURUS {AprlllO"May 20}: Srrive for perfection, perfontmn.:e aml prodm:twity. Work fmm hnmt if it will bdp ynu accompli<h nlm"' atlti npcn y<>ur drn;'lt"S "' the l"'"Pk wh<> c:m ol1er youllw 1.n;y,;t as~i~I<QK~--R<Jiuawe is looknw go<.>d. *** 
GEl\U\\1. {Mil)' 2l·J!Ute .10): You may haw Si'll11C great .ide;•~ hut trying 111 gd otben; to buy illlo wur pbms w'illnnt he easy. 0<)!1'1 waslc tune gdtinll otbm oni.>O~rd . -develop y011r idew ;md ptvwm them as your owu J.•.w~onal '"'"nmplisl:uncnt.. *** 
CAN('l.:lt (June Zl·July l!}: Home i• wlmre you belong. Utili<re the tm~e you saw in travel to gel Wine of !lw liner. more lmponallt d..'ialls rompkted of~ project that will cu~ure your advanc'<!mcut. Affilll:Ullk s.ituati.:u• .:au help Htm your life around. •·* ** 
LEO IJuly l.l-Aug.lZl: Do what you can for oth.en. As ,;oon as yoo bocome too me· ori11111ed, romeone will point mtt ym1r faull$, A trip will pay off as 1<:111!.! as you don'llW over· llo;ud. A Jl!l$t J11!1'!11Ctsllip will \Xlli!C in bandy now it )'on n~'lk!: !Ire illitialmow.** 
VmGO (Aug. 2-l&pl. Ul:Tra•'d lire distaiii."C R'QIIiR'<l to pu£11 your ideas 10 tile right group of people. lt's up to you to do llw gffiliM"'ork hutonce you target ymu audience. you will ~~~'tllw lwlp ynu ue~"t 10 ntnw l'orw:ml. Low il; intlw ~Ia!'!;. *** 
LlliRA (&,pt. 13·0ct.. ll): You call move inwstl.n.,nl> around or put IIJQlley into your home \'1' cwn e<>U~ an old d¢bt stww~sfully. A chang« at wm:k l!lij)" t.; sudden lllld ltJICl\~t<'d but i.ntbe end, you will reali~.-. that it was required. Don't get emotional. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. Z3·No'f, ZlJ1 A cb~ag,~ ill 11 rel~timt~bip will nupkw<antly >Urpri~ y~:~l. D<:m't lo~ >ight ofym•rcurrmt frkndhi;n, e-qxct11Uy w1~<:nl.lMkillg ttpiPJl~S to YOilriKltlli: or dcctromt: <:{jniptmmL.A trip will he edtl<.:atimml. ** 
SAGI1TAIUl!S (Nuv.ll·l>te.lti: Prep;u:e to j!jve all you've t.ml, llO mmter what tlw job, pro.J!Xt "'cbliUe.nge. One ;;lip and you will fall !l!rouglltl!e c!liek~ ~ud mi;s out on an oppor. tnnily. This i> not tlw time to rei~· on o!lrer.• tu tlllll things togelher *** 
CAPRICORN (l>«.l2·Jan. 19): f'er>onal ~nd dome~tic charwes will couHrm what }'<:!II 11~<1 a!"'ady mtkipate<l. Ad swiftly and will! ctmfidmcc and yon can complct.: all the plam and J>r<>J"CN you have nn your to-d<> 1M. Romance will kad to a stmng ami slllblc "'Mion. 
ship.***** 
AQUARIVS (,Jan. 29-Feb. 18J: Yorf1lllav;: to umke tll<: calls and rlu the work yours.:lf to !(el thin~~ done properly. All CIH<Jiioual issue tc;g;tiTii!l$ a tteighll<'lf, friend or relative will ..~· ealate if you don't >Jll:ak tmthfnlly atxmt yo\tr intemions. ** 
l'lSCJ~S il'~b. 19-M.~Il. !ffl~ Set yom ~<Jak a1~1 do uot deviate, re~mll<"' whlilll!l~.:r> do Tak~ care <lf any p;l~l a:;~odllli(>u !li~l. m<~}' ben"fil <>r binder ~·(!il before y<nl fonmllatc a ~•In b'liCI <Jf <lNL L1yiug t'V<:rythiug <.>11! in the ''I"'" will >aw yun ;;dh~cks lak~·. •·• ** 
Birthday 811by: You are <kknn:ined and wi1Hnr to gn lire d.i<tar.~ee to •chieve ymtr g<ml.,. 
Ytlll are !h<>ughtful a11d rea><mabk. cntertamill,¥, inlcre5Jit\g and <>ri~tin•l m ali thai yot1 do. 
E<w<'itiu'& lti•b siiN: ellgmi<liaJit.<w!ljiwwnffd<'mial <:<Nm<llurhm.~, my~pa<Y.com/eugmilllast.fi:lr l:.ltgmitt:> bfo.~. aMmadl'inl.f:am ji>r jim 
CROSSWORD 
Across Source of the music for a 2001 theatrical hit 5 Partner of grease 9 Business card number 12 Legendary opera 
star 
15 Shortly 
17 Rabid fan 
18 'The one beer to have when you're having more than one" sloganeer 
19 Fixed, as a tapestry 
20 in cat 
21 Hubs: Abbr. 
22 Come back following renovations, say 
24 Admonition to a cell phone user in a theater 
25 Comet, for one 28 Seen 31 Bank job 32 Wing, perhaps 34 Laugh syllable 35 E.R.A. part: 
Abbr. 36 Ad follower 38 Giant slugger 39 Something to 
stroke 40 O.T. book 41 Fear 43 Part of dressy 
attire for a woman 45 Foursome 47 Some revenue 49 Contents of a hoedown seat 50 Echo 51 Identity theft targets: Abbr. 53 Theater sign 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7:':-t-:-t-:::-t"="f~~ -::+=-r.:-t-:7~~ 
-::-f"":'-i-:-iliiljliilf-:::-il-':'-1-::'-t-=:-•1-':'--r:-+':'-1 -'-+-'+"-+--+-'-1 


54 Available, as a London limo 58 Stif-fried entree 
60 How a particularly close nephew may be treated 
61 Upstage 62 Mythical sea creature 63 Starting point for a long drive? 
64 Not much 
65 Banks on TV 
Down Rent-_ 
2 Wished 
3 Arch above the 
eye 4 Night lights 5 Tell apart 6 Like the sun god 
Inti 7 Sounds from a 
50-Down 8 Old carrier inits. 9 Superfluous 
person 10 Yank or Ray 11 Gen 13 Like some 
Adventists 14 Round snack items 16 Anne of HBO's "Hung" 
23 Cry in "Hair" 
24 Intuition 
25 Sound from a monastery 26 Army Corps of Engineers construction 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Jim Hyres  
27 Quaver  44 Lady Lindy  53 Dressy attire for  
28 Dog doc 29 Colonel's insignia  46 Certain filers 48 Bar closing time, often  a man 55 "The Lord ..shepherd ... 56 Enthusiastic  
30 Refuse 33 Bumps  50 Sports venue  audience response  
37 California's Fort  51 Highlander, e.g.  57 Sicilian resort  
52 Actress  city  
42 Ticked off  Elisabeth  59  Na Na  

For answers, call 1-900·285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SCHAD & FREUDE WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 

COLIN HOFMAN

THE MOBILE PARTY 

Ladies and gentleman, here are the official rules for the Freshman Challenge: 
1. 
You must be a senior to participate (though it's fun for all ages) 

2. 
Nouggos 


3. 
He or she must be a freshman (as if that wasn't obvious) 


Bonus points are awarded for: -Completing the challenge inside a dorm -Doing anything that would be censored by the Observer Negative points for sobriety 
Epic win if they live in Badin/Carroll 
Prize: hella street cred 
JUMBLE 
Jru]~J!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
WEHIN ! 
©2009 Tribune Media Service$, Inc. 
All Rights Resmved. 
HOrP 

I J 1 []
tTROIMP I
) [J 

NEW Jumlllr;. i!'!IOOe App go to: ht!p'Jitr.imljumb!eapp 
tSUFOAMj
J I [ t J 
A: r x I I I J"r I I I x x J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: OLDER BEFOG POROUS FORGOT Answer: What a comfortable shoe can be ­GOOD FOR THE SOLE 
JEFFKNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argition and Jeff Knurek 


JQ. 7 
WHEN THEY r<A~EO TO DEVEL-OP THE: NEWS PICTUr<ES, IT WAS A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, October 7, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S GOLF 

Bonte s-weet honte 
ND takes first place in tournament at Warren Golf Course 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame was able to grab first place team honors as well as the top individual spot in the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic, as fifth-year senior Josh Sandman led the Irish to victory in their sole home match of the year. 
''I'm just so happy for our kids," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. "They've had a tough year or two. They've taken their lumps but they never ever quit working hard. They never lost faith and they always believed in themselves. I didn't know when it would happen, but I knew it would happen at some point. It 
see GOLF/page 22 


Sandman rallies after early mistakes to take top honors 
Five holes into Josh Sandman's round Tuesday morning, the final round of the 54-hole Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic, the fifth-year senior was all but out of the tourna­menthewas in command of just an hour prior. 
Thirteen holes later, Sandman captured the first individual title of his colle­giate career, coming back with the sort of grit and determination 

see SANDMAN/page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Weis says Clausen, Allen, Aldridge to be healthy for USC 
Asked Tuesday if there was little carts that you ride ket," Weis said of the boot. wanted to practice
By MATT GAMBER 

anything that could be done around in the grocery store," "It takes complete pressure Wednesday after sitting out 
Sports Editor 

to aid Clausen and Allen, Weis said. "But I think right off of his toe, and it gets all Tuesday's drills. who are battling toe and now those two guys would the people to say 'oh Jimmy.' "He's actually requested to The fact that Irish coach ankle injuries, respectively, just be [using! them to race, So he kind of likes that." practice because he doesn't 
. Charlie Weis can joke about in getting around campus on not because they needed Weis' initial plan for want to hold off until Monday injuries to two of his most a daily basis, Weis' response them." Clausen this week was to without going," Weis said. important players is a good indicated that all signs point We is did note Clausen's rest him as much as possible "He asked to go tomorrow, so sign he isn't too worried to a healthy, uninhibited preference to wear a walking to take advantage of he'll end up practicing for at about quarterback Jimmy backfield when the Trojans boot around campus -but Saturday's open date in least the first half of practice Clausen or running back come to town Oct. 1 7. he inserted a wisecrack on preparation for the matchup [Wednesday]." Armando Allen missing any "We've had guys [in the that point as well. with USC. But Weis said his time. past] that have ridden those "It's like a security blan-signal-caller told him he see BYE/page 20 
SMC SoccER 

Belles fall in tight match 
Defense limits Calvin, but Saint Mary's still falls to Knights 1-0 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Soccer team (4-8-1, 1-2) dropped a hard fought game 1-0 to MIAA foe Calvin, the reign­ing conference champion, Tuesday. 
"Today against Calvin we had an outstanding team performance," Belles coach Ryan Crabbe said. "While we came out on the short end of a 1-0 result the team committed to a defensive plan, and we gave ourselves a shot at a tie or win to the. very end of the game." 
The Belles were coming off of a shutout of the worst team in the conference, 
see BELLES/page 22 


MEN's SoccER 
Irish look for complete 
game against Marquette 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish travel to Milwaukee today to face Marquette in a key Big East match-up that pits Notre Dame (5-4-1, 3-2 Big East) against a team desperate for some more wins in the con­ference. 
Although the Golden Eagles (2-5-2; 1-2-2 Big East) seem to be down early in the season, the Irish expect a tough game against a very physical team. 
"We expect a hard game from Marquette," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "I actually watched them against West Virginia and they are a big and strong team and are very com­petitive. We expect them to fight very hard. They need to win and get some points in the Big East." 
This kind of desperation can breed some physical play from Marquette, which Clark char­acterized as a big and strong team that enjoys playing a physical type of game. 
"They have a lot of red cards," Clark said. "I saw one lad getting a red card against West Virginia, but that was a result of getting two yellow cards, so it was not a terribly violent play." 
The key for Notre Dame to beat the Golden Eagles on their home turf will be to not fall into the trap of matching phys­icality with physicality. The Irish want to keep within their own game and play sound, technical soccer. 
"We are a strong and athletic team too," Clark said. "We just have to not get involved in their game and play our own game. We have a lot of good 
see CLARK/ page 22 





