
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 8 THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER3. 2009 

Career Center helps grads injob hunt 
Persistence and networking are critical skills alums should use to find employment 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
In light of the struggle of many recent graduates to find employ­ment in the weak economy, per­sistence and networking will prove critical for seniors entering a competitive job market. 
At graduation in May, 20 per­cent of the graduating senior class categorized themselves as "active­ly looking" for Pmployment," Associate Director of the Career Center Kevin Monahan said. 
The summer months. however, have seen slight yet significant in1provements in the job market -all positive signs for young Notre Dame alumni and under­graduates. 
STUDENT SENATE 


Football pep rallies to move to Irish Green 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
One or two members of the football team, students, fami­lies from the community and alumni all mingling in one large field -the future of Notre Dame pep rallies looks drastically different than what students are used to. student body vice president Cynthia Weber said at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. 
Due to the renovation of the Joyce Center and the University's effort to accom­modate community members and alumni who wish to attend, half of this year's pep rallies have been moved to Irish Green, the large field behind the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The administration has scheduled pep rallies to take place at Irish Green for the Michigan State, Washington, Boston College and Navy games. The remaining pep rallies will take place at vari­ous campus locations. 
"We are a little bit con­cerned about it from a student perspective," Weber said. 
see SENATE/page 3 

'There was a good amount of success when students were able to get back to their hometowns and become a local candidate [for ajobl," Monahan said. 
Monahan and the Career Center staff have worked with recent graduates from zero to three years out of school, free of charge. The Alumni Association, in con­junction with the Career Center, assist more experienced alumni in networking and job placement. 
"No matter how old you are, Notre Dame will always lend a hand," Monahan said. 
With online networking semi­nars called Webinars, the Career Center can help coach students and alumni through understand-
see JOBS/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students returnfrolll abroad 
By SARAH GUNN 
News Writer 
Senior Sarah Fink spent a year in Maynooth, Ireland, after spending a semester at American University in Washington D.C. 
"l think I have come out of this past year as a more assertive person ... I say that traveling abroad was a great personal experience and studying in D.C. was a great professional experience." 
As well as completing coursework in history and sociology, Fink was able to research her senior compre­hensive project. She also had the opportunity to attend President Barack Obama's inaugural events. 
"There is something espe­cially fulfilling about seeing what you've studied in class in person, whether it be how things worked on Capitol Hill. or seeing the Mona Lisa at the Louvre," she said. 
Senior Rachel Piontek also returned from Europe, after being one of the first Saint Mary's College students to participate in the London internship program. 
Piontek said the College prepared her well for an internship abroad. 
"The amount of reading and research that we typically do in SMC classes -primarily focused on political science ­
see ABROAD/page 6 



DonnBooks program grows in popularity 
By LAURA MCCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students have an increasing number of options when it comes to buying textbooks due to the growth of DormBooks, the text­book company founded by Notre Dame graduates, and student gov­ernment's launching of a ISBN data­base of required class materials. 
Karol Grzesiak and Andrew Matasic, 2009 Notre Dame gradu­ates, founded DormBooks three years ago in an efTort to provide a cheaper alternative to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
"We began the business just by the simple idea of cutting out the middle­man," Grzesiak said. 
While the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore stocks all required books and is located on campus, its prices are often higher than those of other companies such as DormBooks. · 
The business endeavor began as a hobby, Grzesiak said, but it grew quickly. Originally, DormBooks only sold textbooks required for business concentrations, but it expanded last fall to offer books to students in all majors. 
After the founders graduated last May, Matasic took a job with J.P. Morgan, but Grzesiak turned DormBooks into a fuJI-time job. He is currently living in East Lansing, 
see BOOKS/page 4 
Disability awareness promoted 
Students use wheelchairs to advocate improved accessibility 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's School of Architecture hosted Accessibility Awareness Day on Wednesday, providing students the option to use a wheelchair for a day and bringing awareness to the diffi­culties endured by people living with disabilities, according to a University press release. 
"The initiative is intended to elevate the awareness of archi­tectural barriers that pose chal­lenges to persons with disabili­ties and discuss the architect's role in barrier-free design," Associate Vice President and University Architect Doug Marsh 
see AWARENESS/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER SMC activities night page 3 • Weekend calendar page 13 • New soccer stadium page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 3, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


For the love of the gatne ... 
This time last year, when the Irish opened the season against San Diego State, I was in the press box to cover my first football game. 
Before the game started, I sat down at my laptop with a plate of free food and said to the senior sitting next to me, "Not to sound like a newbie, but this is probably the coolest thing 

Laura Myers 
that's ever hap­pened to me." 

Sports
He replied, "No, 

Production
don't worry -it's 

Editor
Awesome." 

As it ended up last season, between The Observer, stu­dent managing and losing my ID card, I only sat in the student sec­tion for one game, the win over Purdue. And I didn't have a prob­lem with it. 
This season, I almost didn't even buy tickets, and had to be con­vinced to do so by friends and alumni. I wasn't thrilled to hear about the gates being open Friday afternoons so fans could walk through the tunnel and onto the field -for me, it's old hat. Outdoor pep rallies didn't excite me. And I figured I would hear Drummer's Circle from my room in Cavanaugh. 
But when I found out my group has an extra ticket, I invited my best friend up for the game. She's a huge Notre Dame fan and is super excited. I got excited too. I told her she has to get here by midnight for Drummer's Circle, that we'll buy brats at 9 a.m. from the annoying kid outside my dorm, and then we'll watch as the Band marches through Fieldhouse Mall. After that maybe we'll watch the players come out of Mass, check out the Glee Club, do some tailgat­ing. My friends and I will teach her the cheers and show her every­thing game day has to offer. 
So I started thinking -why aren't I excited about these tradi­tions for every game? If they're so amazing to an outsider, shouldn't they be about 10 times better for someone on the inside? 
Then I realized, yes, they are. I haven't appreciated Notre Dame football like I should, and I hope no one else makes the same mis­take I do. 
So students, from new freshmen to seniors to those in grad school, make the most of the first game of the season and all of the ones to come. Go to the pep rally, tailgate, see the Band. 
But most importantly, come to the student section pumped up and ready to root for the Irish. Scream, dance and clap in unison with every cheer and cadence. 
Because standing in that large mass of students, watching our classmates in their first of many victories this season, is the coolest thing that's ever happened to any of us. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and srrives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR OPINION OF THE SQUIRRELS ON CAMPUS? 







''They think they're human.  *makes squirrel noises*  ''They're on steroids ... like  "They are rapid,  "If you fold up a notecard and  
Poor, delusional  the Yankees. "  carnivorous  put peanut  
freaks."  cousins ofreal  butter in it, they  
squirrels."  look like they're  
reading a  
newspaper."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

A giant screen is set up on South Quad for a Rock Band contest that took place Wednesday night. 
OFFBEAT 

FDA test confirms animal was in man's soda can 
ORMOND BEACH, Fla. ­An FDA test shows that either a frog or a toad was in a Florida man's soda can. The Food and Drug Administration test con­firmed that the remains of an animal were in Fred Denegri's can of Diet Pepsi. Denegri popped the can open July 23 as he was grilling dinner outdoors in Ormond Beach. 
A Pepsi spokesman said the company is aware of the FDA testing and stands by its manufacturing process. The can was traced back to a plant in Orlando, which runs about 1,250 cans a minute on the production line. The spokesman says the speed of the production lines and the rigor of its quality con­trol make it virtually impossible for a frog or toad to get into a can. 
Denegri said he is certain the animal was in the can before he opened it. 
Amsterdam lets 'beer bike' ride on, with limits 
AMSTERDAM -The beer bike will ride on in Amsterdam. 
The outsized bikes, seating groups of people around a central bar, are something of a fixture in the city's center. But two accidents within two months prompted the city councillor responsible for transport to launch an inves­tigation in June. 

Following that review the city has decided to allow the bikes to carry on riding, a city spokesman said Saturday. 
They will, however, need permits from the various city boroughs, and those permits are likely to come with restrictions on hours of oper­ation and requirements for a sober driver. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::z: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( 
(,) 



0 
..... 

LOW 53 LOW 45 LOW 55 LOW 55 
IN BRIEF 
The Student Union Board will be showing "Star Trek" tonight in Debartolo 101 at 10 p.m. Admission is $3. 
"The Irish Sublime," a lec­ture by Professor Terry Eagleton, the Excellence in English Distinguished Visitor, will take place in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium on Friday at 3 
p.m. This lecture discusses the place of the sublime in Irish culture, tracing conti­nuities in literature, politics, and aesthetics from the Middle Ages to the present. A reception will follow the event. 
The Football Pep Rally will be held Friday at 6:30 p.m. on South Quad in front of Dillon Hall. The rally will include the entire Irish Cheer Squad. 
The film "The Brothers Bloom" will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Sunday. The film follows two brothers, who just so happen to be expert swindlers, as they take on their last job-a wealthy heiress. Tickets are available online or at the Ticket Office 574-631-2800. 
"Thin: Photographs by Lauren Greenfield" is run­ning at the Snite Museum of Art through Oct. 18. The exhibit showcases photo­graphs of women with eating disorders at a Florida treat­ment facility. The museum is open 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


e 

Thursday, September 3, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
"The dynamic of a pep rally on a field with only a few foot­ball players is definitely dif­ferent." 
Senators voiced similar con­cerns about the change of venue at the Senate meeting, and offered alternative solu­tions for student-run pep ral­lies. 
"I definitely think we should do something as an alterna­tive because I don't feel like that's really a pep really what we're talking about on the Irish Green," Duncan Hall representative C.J. Kelly said. "I feel like that's more like a fair for alumni and people coming from the community. I feel like as students, we're not getting anything out of it." 
Marc Anthony Rosa from Keough Hall said that pep ral­lies should cater first and foremost to the students, and that the pep rally will be too far away if held at Irish Green. 
"Holding it on Irish Green so far away from where every­one works, where everyone plays, I think its' a negative transition," Rosa said. "I think we need to bring it closer to the dorms, closer to where people are." 
Although the administration has already decided the pep rallies will take place at Irish Green, students could decide to hold their own alternative pep rally, student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt said. 
"Students can put on our own event. If it is something that is a big enough concern, we can get the students in our own venue," Schmidt said. 
Keenan representative Chase Riddle suggested hav­ing pep rallies on one of the quads on campus. 
Pep rallies were "one of my favorite things about fresh­men year last year," he said, and said he is concerned that freshmen will be missing out on the tradition of a pep rally. 
"What about trying to hold one somewhere as we said on North Quad, for one of the midseason [games]?" he said. "Similar to Dillon Hall pep rally, but a North Quad one. Or on God Quad. Just to keep it little closer, bring it back to the students" 
Bradley McDonald from O'Neil Hall expressed concern about the time of the pep ral­lies, which are planned to start at 6:30 p.m. 
"A lot of dorms have tradi­tions starting at 4 o'clock," he said. "If you start the pep rally at 6:30 p.m., I don't see how there are any students going ... They get all rowdy and then you have all this down time." 
Despite these concerns, Andrew Bell of Knott Hall sug­gested that students attend the first pep rally at Irish Green to see how it goes. 
"Maybe we don't come out and really bash it before we go to one. The concept of it doesn't sound too appealing to students, but I'm not sure the University is going to respond to our complaints if we haven't been to one," he said. "If it really goes bad, I think we'll have more leeway in changing it." 
The Senate did not decide whether the students would have an alternative pep rally. This weekend's Nevada pep rally will take place Friday on South Quad as part of the annual Dillon Hall rally. 
On the Thursday before the Michigan away game, there will be a student-only pep­rally in Stepan Center, Weber said. 
The USC pep rally is tenta­tively scheduled to take place in the Notre Dame Stadium, and the Connecticut pep rally will be held in the Purcell Pavilion in the Joyce Center, according to the Notre Dame Web site. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Student Government is working on extending the TRANSPO Bus hours to 3:30 
a.m. on Friday and Saturday. The bus provides a free alter­native to students who wish to come back to campus on 
College holds activities night 


By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's held their annual activities night Wednesday, filling the Student Center with more than 100 booths, including groups from Notre Dame and the South Bend community, as well as from the College. 
Patrick Daniel, director of student involvement, estimat­ed around 850 to 1,000 stu­dents attended. 
Student Coordinator Katie Cuda said she started plan­ning Saint Mary's Activity Night the first day she 
stepped on campus this semester. From the Chinese Culture Club to the Irish Dance Team, Cuda was responsi­ble for contacting every club and organization that was repre­sented. 
This year, the event was moved from the Angela Athletic Facility to the 
Student Center to Improve the movement of students," Cuda explained. "The Student Center not only has more peo­ple coming in and out, but it allows for a smooth flow of students from table to table." 
Club Volleyball President Alie Bennett noted that Activities Night is crucial for her program. 
"We need activities night to recruit because most people don't even know the club vol­leyball program exists," Bennett said. 
Freshman Tamara Meeks signed up for so many clubs that she lost count. 
"I probably won't commit to all of them," Meeks said. ''I'll just choose later once I have received more information about them." 
Fellow first year Emily Ryniak signed up for both the Spanish Club and the humani­tarian group Invisible Children. 
"I joined the Spanish Club 
"It was overwhelming seeing all the tables at first, but it's great that we get a chance to see everything, no matter what our interests are., 
Abby Harman SMC freshman 
because I plan to be a Spanish minor, and the Invisible Children group just sounded interesting," Ryniak said. 
A b b y Harman, a first year, was ini­tially intimi­dated by the endless options, but believes it is a great way to expose new students to all 
that Saint Mary's offers. 
"It was overwhelming see­ing all the tables at first, but it's great that we get to a chance to see everything, no matter what our interests are," Harman said. 
Contact Bridget Meade at bmeadO 1 @saiutmarys.edu 

weekend nights. 
"The purpose is safety ... The issue is that student are walking around individually or in small groups in down­town South Bend and people have been hurt before," Weber said. 
The change has not been implemented yet and is still in the works. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 





Jnna6aintM~'s 
Hotel & Suites 
Availability for the following football weekends: 


Washington &Connecticut 



page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 3, 2009 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
ing the hiring process, reviewing resumes, teaching networking skills and preparing for inter­views. 
"It's hard for them to come to us because of distance, so we come to them," Monahan said. 
The networking technology Linkedln also has served as a valuable resource for undergrad­uates and graduates alike, and the Career Center encourages all Notre Dame students to take advantage of the resource. 
"11,500 alumni are signed up for Linkedln, and students and alumni have access to this to help share ideas, expertise and advice," Monahan said. "This shows the power of the Notre Dame family, that the alumni are there to help others, to pass along a contact and to offer advice for people in the job search." 
Class of 2008 MBA graduate and class of 2007 undergraduate Bridget O'Neill experienced first­hand the ctifficulties facing young alumni in the current job market, but was able to utilize the Notre Dame network and University resources to augment her job search. 
"To get my new job in San Francisco, I used both Linkedln and Irish Online a lot," O'Neill said. "I looked online to find job openings, then used Linkedln and Irish Online to find someone who worked at one of these com-

Awareness 
continued from page 1 
said. 
Students spent part of the day experiencing what it's like to be disabled -either on crutches, in a wheelchair or with a visual impairment, Coordinator of Disability Services Scott Howland said. 
"My office helps coordinate the simulation events by obtaining the wheelchairs and crutches from Alick's Home Medical,'' Howland said. 
All fourth-year Architecture students were required to par­ticipate in the activity, Howland said. 
"I also speak with the stu­dents before they start their day," Howland said. "I want them to understand that while they will be spending a day in a wheelchair, on crutches, or with a visual impairment, this is not truly what it is like to have a disability. Individuals with disabilities have spent 


Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 

panies and sent them messages to talk to them about their com­pany." 
Irish Online and Notre Dame alumni clubs throughout the country are valuable resources from which to begin the job search, O'Neill said. He does, however, recommend being per­sistent and constantly following up on applications and submitted resumes. 
"I was really persistent in fol­lowing up with people and jobs I was interested in," O'Neill said. "E-mails are so easily lost in one's inbox so just making sure they know you're really interest­ed helps a lot." 
Even after exhausting Notre Dame's job search resources, however, not all recent graduates have experienced the same suc­cess in the job market. 
ReenAnn Downing, a Class of 2009 economics major, said a dependence on the Notre Dame network is unreliable and insuffi­cient in a time when just about everyone is feeling the effects of the economic recession. 
"I've been using Linkedln to get in contact with Notre Dame alums in companies and indus­tries I'm interested in," Downing said. "Some people don't reply at all, others reply 'sorry, no jobs,' and others are friendly but unable to do more than tell me if there are openings in their area. It's a struggle to even get another name recommendation some­times." 
In response to this common complaint by many struggling young graduates, Monahan said 
much time adapted and learn­ing to compensate for the limi­tations caused by a disability." 
The School of Architecture works closely with a Chicago­based firm, LCM Architects, which specializes in "barrier­free facilities design," Marsh said. Two LCM architects also gave an afternoon presenta­tion to the participating stu­dents. 
Because the program is so new, judging the impact on students is tricky, Howland said. 
"[The impact on students] is hard to see since this is only the second year, but students who participated last year said it has made them think how they can better incorpo­rate accessibility into their designs," he said. 

Notre Dame is not the first university to hold such a day, Kara Kelly, director of com­munications in the School of Architecture, said. 
"Most universities and col­leges have an Office of Disability Services. They host the Class of 2010 needs to note the struggles of their friends and realize they need to be more aggressive in their job search. 

"Start early by doing your research and getting your resume reviewed," Monahan said. 'This is not a year for sen­iors to wait until April." 
Delaying the process would be extremely detrimental in an eco­nomic year like this, Monahan said, especially given that the biggest struggle facing students is the caution with which compa­nies are hiring. 
"Instead of hiring 10 full-time students, they might only hire four," Monahan said. "They are still coming to campus, they are just being more cautious." 
Monahan additionally urges students to be flexible and always have a backup plan, even when applying to schools and programs like Teach for America. It is going to take more effort and work this year, but it still can be accomplished, Monahan said. 
For the Class of 2010, Monahan still has a lot of great hope, with 151 companies attending the upcoming fall career fair, including a few investment banks. 
"That is a phenomenal num­ber," Monahan said. "It is a posi­tive sign that things are begin­ning to turn around." 
The Fall Career Fair will take place on Wednesday, September 16, from 5-9 p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
such events to show how diffi­cult it can be to do day-to-day activities while on crutches, in wheelchairs or not being able to see," Kelly said. "Many of us able-bodied citizens take getting around easily and quickly for granted." 
Kelly said that a day like this is intended to remind students to include accessibility for those with disabilities in their building designs. Students will rethink blueprints to include alternative ramp entrances and other accessibility issues, she said. 
"Part of being an engaged member of one's community is looking out for everyone, including those with physical impairments," Kelly said. "As much as the layout and design of a building can help facili­tate the capacity to move freely about, the better we all are in serving as active partic­ipants in the world around us." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 
Magrane Pel Medical Center Welcomes: 

Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Dr. Logue brings a \vcallh ofexperience in emergency and critical care medicine -care of the sickest pets, to our experienced staff. 
"Caringfor yourpel is caringfor afami(v member and I feel privileged to work with a great team to care for your pet, whether healtl~v or ill." 
To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 Email questions to Kkl.oguc(i_f'magranePMC.com 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka} 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 





Books 
continued from page 1 
Mich., to oversee the expansion of DormBooks to Michigan State University as well as three smaller colleges in Michigan. 
DormBooks offers lower prices than other companies by putting the textbook purchasing process into the hands of students, Grzesiak said. 
Sophomore Kelsey Falter and junior Richard Dougherty are the current campus managers in con­trol of daily operations of DormBooks at Notre Dame. 
Nearly 500 Notre Dame stu­dents purchased books from DormBooks this fall, and the number of customers has increased every semester, Grzesiak said. Dormbooks also employs 40 to 50 Notre Dame stu­dents during peak business times, and Grzesiak plans to hire as many as five students each year as campus managers. 
DormBooks keeps prices low by renting short-term storage units, as it is not cost-effective to keep an entire bookstore in operation when peak times for textbook sales come in short bursts, Grzesiak said. 
''I'm in this for the long haul,'' Grzesiak said. "There are almost 4,000 colleges in the United States. I don't think DormBooks will ever be at every one of them, but we want to be at as many as possible." 
Junior Liz Casazza said she pur­chased five books from DormBooks this semester and saved $136 compared to what she would have spent at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. She said DormBooks was also the most convenient option because her books were delivered to her dorm. 
DormBooks contributed to stu­dent government's initiative for an ISBN database of textbooks this year. 
Student body Vice President Cynthia Weber said the idea for the database began last semester when she and student body President Grant Schmidt created their campaign platform. 
"Every year it's a reoccurring issue that textbooks are so expen­sive," she said. "Really the only definitive identification of the book is the ISBN number." 
Grzesiak agreed to provide stu­dent government with the ISBN database he developed for DormBooks, and Weber contacted professors to obtain the missing numbers. 
"I think our database is proba­bly 95 percent [complete],'' Weber said. "We're really excited about the student response." 

Student government announced in an Aug. 22 e-mail to students that the database was available on the student government Web site. 
"It was such a big project that it would have been nice ifwe could have released it earlier," Weber said, "but I know that it benefited some students." 
Weber said that although the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore offers "reliability and conven­ience" to students, the ISBN data­base will allow students to easily find textbooks on other Web sites. 
Junior John Anders said he has purchased most of his textbooks from the Web site half.com since his freshman year. 
"On half.com you can search ISBN numbers, and it makes it faster," he said. 
Although both Anders and Casazza used vendors other than the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore to purchase books, they turned to the bookstore for some of their books because they could not find all of their books else­where. 
Grzesiak hopes to continue to expand DormBooks to compete with the Bookstore, and student government plans to update the ISBN database each semester to help students purchase their books. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 



"SR 23@ Ironwood "SR 933 North "Downtown •speedway 
SR23@ Edison

eat tresh 
"Indian Ridge Pia za 





ORLD &NATION 
Thursday, September 3, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVE~s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Jimena sweeps through Mexico 
LOS CABOS -Hurricane Jimena plowed over Baja California on Wednesday, tearing off roofs. knocking down power poles and bringing welcome rainfall to a drought­stricken state. 
The storm made landfall Wednesday after­noon between Puerto San Andresito and San Jaunico, sparsely populated area of fishing villages on the Pacific coast of the peninsula. 
Wind gusts and heavy rains blew down dozens of trees and lamp posts in Loreto, the nearest significant resort town to the area where Jimena main landfall. according to Ilumberto Carmona. a city official manning an emergency response center. 
Elections will end Honduran crisis 
KABUL -A Taliban suicide bomber attacked officials leaving a mosque east of the capital Wednesday. killing the country 's deputy intelligence chief and 22 other people in a major blow to Afghanistan's security forces. 
The brazen. assault occurred as tensions are running high after last month's divisive presidential election and a sharp rise in U.S. casualties -events that have already raised alarm in Washington over the future of President Barack Obama's strategy to turn the tide of the war. 
A Taliban spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahid, claimed responsibility for the bombing, which happened as Afghan dignitaries were leaving the main mosque in Mehterlam, 60 miles (100 kilometers) east of Kabul, after ceremonies marking the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. 
The bomber approached the crowd on foot and detonated an explosive belt, killing 23 people, 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Flammable brush not cleared 
LOS ANGELES -Federal authorities failed to follow through on plans earlier this year to burn away highly flammable brush in a forest on the edge of Los Angeles to avoid the very kind of wildfire now raging there, The Associated Press has learned. 
The U.S. Forest Service said that months before the huge blaze erupted, it obtained permits to burn away the undergrowth on more than 1. 700 acres (688 hectares) of the Angeles National Forest. But just 193 acres (78 hectares)had been cleared by the time the fire broke out, the agency said. 
The agency defended its efforts, saying weather, wind and environmental rules tight­ly limit how often these "prescribed burns" can be conducted. 
Cuba to pay for jailing journalist 
MIAMI -A federal judge ordered the Cuban government and the ruling Communist Party on Wednesday to pay $27.5 million in damages to the mother of a jour­nalist jailed since a 2003 crackdown on dis­sent. 
U.S. District Judge Alan S. Gold ruled in the case of Omar Rodriguez Saludes, who is serving a 27 -year sentence in Cuban prisons that the judge described as "deplorable and degrading" in his 13-page order. 
The judge said the family deserved to be compensated for "the intentional infliction of emotional distress" it has endured. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Corrupt police officers indicted 
INDIANAPOLIS -Two former Indianapolis narcotics detectives convicted of stealing drugs and money will be sentenced later this month. 
A federal jury in June convicted Robert B. Long of four counts of actual or attempted drug possession with intent to distribute. Jason P. Edwards was convicted of three drug counts. 
Federal prosecutors say each faces up to 20 years in prison, according to federal pros­ecutors. 
IRAQ 

Shots ring out at Iranian exile camp 
11 left dead at hands of Iraqi troops at Camp Ashraf 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -The women formed a human chain while the men chanted, confronting Iraqi troops moving into their com­pound. Gunfire rang out, and the soldiers waded in with batons, wooden bats and automatic weapons. 
By the end, officials said, 11 Iranian exiles were dead -shot, beaten or run over by military vehicles. 
Throughout the con­frontation, American sol­diers who once protected the Iranian opposition group stood by. According to U.S. officials, they had no legal authority to inter­vene. One video taken by the exiles even shows sol­diers get into a white SUV and roll up their windows as the bloodied men plead for help. 
The deadly melee at Camp Ashraf, the base of the People's Mujahedeen Organization of Iran, pro­vides a glaring example of what can go wrong as the 
U.S. military scales back and the Shiite-led Iraqi government flexes its mus­cles. 

The U.S. military guarded the camp since the fall of Saddam Hussein in 2003 "We could not become its own way -like the fate Washington of the U.S.­under an agreement that decisively engaged with a of anti-al-Qaida Sunni mili­trained Iraqi security made its 3,400 residents situation that really is up to tias, which are strongly forces. But U.S. officials "protected persons" under the sovereign Iraqi govern­supported by the U.S. but tried to balance it with the the Geneva Conventions. ment to settle in a peaceful now seem to get less back­larger policy goal of hand­The military stopped manner as they have ing from Iraq's Shiite lead­ing over greater responsi­observing the agreement assured us that they would ers, or the multiple dis­bility to the government of after a new security accord do," a senior U.S. military putes between Baghdad Prime Minister Nouri ai­with the Baghdad govern­official said Wednesday, and the Kurdish north, Maliki while U.S. forces ment took effect in speaking on condition of which the U.S. has sought reduce their presence. January, U.S. Embassy anonymity because of the to mollify lest they explode "Iraq was trying to spokesman Philip Frayne sensitivity of the issue. into violence. extend its sovereignty to said. "Even in a situation that "These kinds of things Camp Ashraf. We under­
Responsibility for the allowed engagement. we are only going to happen stood what they were try­camp then passed to the didn't have nearly the more often and in other ing to do. They did not do it Iraqi government, which amount of forces present to places, and the U.S. has to well," State Department promised not to use force jump in the middle of this decide what are we going spokesman P.J. Crowley against the group. A small fray," he said. to do about it," said Army told reporters two weeks contingent of U.S. military Iraqi officials said they Reserve Col. Gary Morsch, after the raid. police still monitors the were trying to establish a who was stationed at Camp Camp Ashraf and the camp, but the military said police station at the camp. Ashraf and maintains close presence of the Iranian they were under orders not And there are numerous ties with the exiles there. exile group have been a to intervene in the July 28 other issues on which the The bloodshed brought source of friction between confrontation. Iraqi government could go rare criticism by Washington and Baghdad. 


BP discovers oil in deepest oil well 
But BP does not yet know how much Deep-water operations are consid­
Associated Press 

it can extract. ered to be the last frontier for pristine 
"The Gulf of Mexico is proving to be oil deposits, and the entire petroleum 
NEW YORK -Nearly seven miles a growing oil province, and a prof­industry is sweeping the ocean floor below the Gulf of Mexico, oil company itable one if you can find the in search of more crude. BP has tapped into a vast pool of reserves," said Tyler Priest, professor BP needs to invest years of work crude after digging the deepest oil and director of Global Studies at the and millions of dollars before it draws well in the world. The Tiber Prospect Bauer College of Business at the the first drop of oil from Tiber. Such is expected to rank among the largest University of Houston. long waits are not uncommon. Three petroleum discoveries in the United The Tiber well is about 250 miles years after announcing a discovery at States, potentially producing half as southeast of Houston in U.S. waters. a site in the Gulf called Kaskida, BP much crude in a day as Alaska's At 35,055 feet, it is as deep as Mount has yet to begin producing oil there. famous North Slope oil field. Everest is tall, not including more Projects like the Tiber well will not 
The company's chief of exploration than 4,000 feet of water above it. reduce U.S. dependency on foreign on Wednesday estimated that the Drilling at those depths shows how oil, which continues to grow. But new Tiber deposit holds between 4 billion far major oil producers will go to find technology does permit access to and 6 billion barrels of oil equivalent, new supplies as global reserves dwin­major oil finds closer to U.S. shores. which includes natural gas. That dle, and how technology has BP expects Tiber to be among the would be enough to satisfy U.S. advanced, allowing them to reach company's richest finds in the Gulf on demand for crude for nearly one year. once-unimaginable depths. par with its crown jewel. 
I page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 3, 2009 
I 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
helped prep me for the basic research work that I did on a day-to-day basis at Free Tibet." 
Piontek said she thorough­ly enjoyed "walking all over the city, from the main sites along the Thames to any one of the glorious parks they have." 
The political science and religious studies double major said she was fortu­nate to be able to travel around the U.K. and experi­ence places like Edinburgh and events like Wimbledon. 
Piontek said it is impor­tant for her "[to realize] that I was at the center of one of the most amazing, historic, and culturally important cities in the world." 
Abroad for Notre Dame's International Summer Service Learning Program, Saint Mary's nursing senior Alison Russell said she had an inspiring experience in India. 
While working in the city of Kolkata, Russell assisted the poor and elderly for eight weeks at a dispensary started by Mother Teresa. 
Russell said she "helped with medical related tasks and also helped with the normal volunteer work which consists of washing and drying clothes by hand, helping exercise patients, taking patients to the bath­room, feeding and helping them eat dinner and 
preparing them for bed." 
Russell said that the expe­rience was moving because "These most basic tasks became sacred and holy as we slowly formed relation­ships with these women." 
Russell elaborated on what made the experience memorable for her. 
"Learning small and big ways to immerse myself in Indian culture, embracing the feelings of confusion, outrage and helplessness that came with the poverty and corruption that was evi­dent around every corner and openly loving the women of Kalighat are the beginning of lessons I learned during my time abroad," she said. 
Piontek said she experi­enced reverse culture shock upon re-entry into the United States and "noticed how big everything is in America." 
Russell said she is sur­prised at little things throughout the day that remind her of her "women in India." 
Students are also return­ing from popular programs in Italy, France, Spain, Australia, Austria and China to name just a few. 
Alumnae of these pro­grams are invited to a "Welcome Back Party" host­ed by The Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership. The party will be held in Haggar Parlor on Thursday, Sept. 10, starting at 4 p.m. 
Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Schilling interested in seat 
Former major league pitcher considering run for Senate opening 
Associated Press 

BOSTON-Curt Schilling, the former major league pitcher who won the alle­giance o!' Bostonians by lead­ing the Hed Sox to the 2004 World Series, said Wednesday that he has "some interest" in running for the seat held for nearly 50 years by Democratic Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. 
Schilling, a registered inde­pendent and longtime Hepublican supporter, wrote on his blog that while his family and video game com­pany, 38 Studios, are high priorities, "I do have some interest in the possibility." 
"That being said, to get to there, from where I am today, many, many things would have to align them­selves for that to truly hap­pen," he added. 
Any other comment "would be speculation on top of speculation," Schilling said, adding, "My hope is that whatever happens, and whomever it happens to, this state makes the deeision and chooses the best person ­regardless of sex, race, reli­gion or political affiliation ­to help get this state back to the place it deserves to be." 
State election law would limit Schilling to running solely as an independent can­didate because it requires 
those seeking a major party nomination to have been enrolled in that party for at least 90 days before the Nov. 3 deadline for filing nomina­tion papers with the state Elections Division. 
Schilling told New England Cable News that he has been contacted "by people whose opinion I give credence to," but he did not elaborate. lie declined to comment when The Associated Press called his office. 
The 42-year-old lives in suburban Medfield and cam­paigned for President George 
W. Bush in 2004 and Sen. John McCain in 2008. 
As a player, he won three World Series, in 2001 with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in 2004 and 2007 with the Red Sox. He became a Sox legend when he won Game 6 of the 2004 American League Championship Series while blood from an injured ankle seeped through his sock. He also pitched for the Philadelphia Phillies, helping them reach the 1993 World Series. He retired in March. 
lie and his wife, Shonda, have four children ages 7 to 14. 
Heaction among the Hed Sox was decidedly jovial Wednesday. 
"If he runs, good luck," said first baseman Kevin Youkilis. "I don't know if I'd want to do that job." 
Team manager Terry Francona said Schilling should do whatever makes him happy but noted, "I don't think he'd want me as his campaign manager." 
So far, no major Hepublicans have taken out nomination papers to be a candidate in the Jan. 19 spe­cial election. Former Lt. Gov. Kerry llealey and state Sen. Scott Brown are among those considering campaigns. 
Democrats said to be con­sidering a campaign include 
U.S. 
Heps. Stephen Lynch of Boston, Michael Capuano of Somerville and John Tierney of Salem, as well as Kennedy's nephew former 

U.S. 
Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy II. 


So far, only state Attorney General Martha Coakley has taken out papers for a Democratic campaign, though she has refused to make any follow-up com­ment. 
Kennedy died last week at age 77 from a brain tumor. A special election to replace him is scheduled for Jan. 19, although the Massachusetts Legislature is considering a bill that would allow Gov. Deval Patrick to appoint someone to the seat on an interim basis during the campaign. 
That bill is the subject of a hearing next week. 


Thursday, September 3, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,280.67 -29.93 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

1,502 125 2,185 2,458,348,260 
AMEX NASDAQ 1,967.07 -1.82 NYSE "'§'.:;~;: ········ Sij~j~i~!~J!1:11~1!l~)i S&P 500 994.75 -3.29 


NIKKEI (1io£.uA)·RTV-··•·L•i·kiili•ttll\!.li "l"lt ••·. '···•·.L.·•·.:~.:·i'·1='\1 ~'*+.•·.:.•
. ..'!b.~~~·w
· ······:,;,t·Ut:'-\1~~'"·:·=·: 

fTSE 100 (London) 4,817.55 -2.15 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CITIGROUP (C) +0.44 +0.02 4.56 FANNIE MAE (FNM) -13.84 -0.22 1.37 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) -1.09 -0.18 16.27 FREDDIE MAC (FRE) -13.68 ·0.26 1.64 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE ·2.37 -0.080 3.30 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.000 0.13 30-YEAR BOND ·2.24 -0.094 4.10 5-YEAR NOTE ·2.92 -0.068 2.26 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 0.00 68.05 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +22.00 978.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.75 79.00 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.1550 EURO 1.4267 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1052 BRITISH POUND 1.6254 
IN BRIEF 
YouTube may offer movie rentals 
LOS ANGELES -YouTube, Google Inc.'s online video streaming service, is in talks with Hollywood studios to rent new release movies online, according to people familiar with the talks. 
The move follows similar deals by Apple Inc.'s iTunes and others. 
A final deal would be contingent on pricing and an agreed-upon release date, said the peo­ple, who spoke on condition of anonymity bocause discussions were still ongoing. 
The move takes YouTube one step away from an ad-supported business model, but does not break the mold of other online rental deals already struck by iTunes, Amazon.com Inc. and Cinemanow.com, a unit of Sonic Solutions. All of them offer movie rentals for between $1.99 and $3.99 each with a 24-hour viewing period. 
The talks were first reported on The Wall Street Journal's Web site Wednesday. The Internet site declined to comment specifically on the talks. 
"While we don't comment on rumor or speculation, we hope to expand on both our great relationship with movie studios and on the selection and types of videos we offer our community," said YouTube spokesman Chris Dale. 
Collective Brands reports higher profits 
Collective Brands Inc. on Wednesday report­ed much higher second-quarter profits but still missed Wall Street expectations as diminished consumer spending hurt the shoe retailer and wholesaler. 
The company's chief executive, however, said third-quarter sales are strong and lower costs should lead to a more positive second half of the year. 
"The second quarter really represented the bottom, and we did indicate that we are seeing solid business with back-to-school," CEO Matt Rubel told analysts during a conference call. "We are seeing tremendous opportunity as we move forward, both on the cost side and an evening of the demand cycle." 
The company's shares, which declined 1 cent to $15.77 in trading before the company n~loasnd its earnings, wnre down 28 cents, or almost 2 percent, to $15.49, Wednesday. 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS 
page 7 

Pfizer hit with record-breaking fines 
Company called 'repeating corporate cheat' for illegal drug promotions 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Federal prosecutors hit Pfizer Inc. with a record-breaking $2.3 billion in fines Wednesday and called the world's largest drugmaker a repeating corporate cheat for illegal drug pro­motions that plied doctors with free golf', massages, and resort junkets. 
Announcing the penalty as a warning to all drug manufacturers, Justice Department officials said the overall settlement is the largest ever paid by a drug company for alleged violations of federal drug rules, and the $1.2 billion criminal fine is the largest ever in any U.S. criminal case. The total includes $1 billion in civil penalties and a $100 million crimi­nal forfeiture. 
Authorities called Pfizer a repeat offender, noting it is the company's fourth such settlement of govern­ment charges in the last decade. The allegations surround the marketing of 13 different drugs, includ­ing big sellers such as Viagra, Zoloft, and Lipitor. 

As part of its illegal mar­keting, Pfizer invited doc­tors to consultant meetings General Eric Holder, did sales managers. The government said the at resort locations, paying not participate in the Officials said the U.S. company promoted four their expenses and provid­record settlement, because industry has paid out more prescription drugs, ing perks, prosecutors he had represented Pfizer than $11 billion in such including the pain killer said. on these issues while in settlements over the past Bextra, as treatments for 
"They were entertained private practice. decade, but one consumer medical conditions differ­with golf, massages, and Associate Attorney advocate voiced hope that ent from those the drugs other activities," said Mike General Thomas Perrelli Wednesday's penalty was had been approved for by Loucks, the U.S. attorney said the settlement illus­so big it would curb the federal regulators. in Massachusetts. trates ways the Justice abuses. Authorities said Pfizer's 
Loucks said that even as Department "can help the "There's so much money salesmen and women cre­Pfizer was negotiating American public at a time in selling pills, that there's ated phony doctor requests deals on past misconduct, when budgets are tight a tremendous temptation for medical information in they were continuing to and health care costs are to cheat," said Bill order to send unsolicited violate the very same laws rising." Vaughan, an analyst at information to doctors with other drugs. Perrelli announced the Consumers Union. about unapproved uses 
To prevent backsliding settlement terms at a news "There's a kind of men­and dosages. this time, Pfizer's conduct conference with federal tality in this sector that Use of drugs for so-called will be specially monitored prosecutors and FBI, and (settlements) are the cost "off-label" medical condi­by the Health and Human Health and Human of doing business and we tions is not uncommon, but Service Department Services Department offi­can cheat. This penalty is drug manufacturers are inspector general for five cials. so huge I think consumers prohibited from marketing years. The settlement ends an can have some hope that drugs for uses that have 
In an unusual twist, the investigation that also maybe these guys will not been approved by the head of the Justice resulted in guilty pleas tighten up and run a better Food and Drug Department, Attorney from two former Pfizer ship." Administration. 


Amazon makes case against Google 
Associated Press Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo Inc., are Google's deal with authors and pub­
expected weigh in with their opposi­lishers would violate U.S. laws set up 
SAN FRANCISCO -Online book­tion by then. to prevent predatory pricing and pro­seller Amazon.com Inc. is warning a Microsoft, Yahoo and Amazon are mote competition. federal judge that Internet search all part of a group called the Open Amazon left little doubt where it leader Google Inc. will be able to Book Alliance, formed last month to stands. Its brief' brands the provi­gouge consumers and stifle competi­rally opposition to the Google book sions of' Google's settlement as "a tion if it wins court approval to add settlement. Other participants high-tech form of the backroom millions more titles to its already vast include the Internet Archive, the New agreements that are the stuff of digital library. York Library Association and the antitrust nightmares." 
The harsh critique of Google's 10-American Society of Journalists and Although not all critics have been month-old settlement with U.S. Authors. The Science Fiction and as strident as Amazon, opposition authors and publishers emerged this Fantasy Writers of America, repre­has been mounting to Google's plans week in a 41-page brief that Amazon senting about 1,500 authors, on to create a registry that will sell digi­filed in an attempt to persuade U.S. Wednesday became the latest group tal copies of copyright-protected District Judge Denny Chin to block to join the alliance. books on behalf' of' U.S. authors and the agreement from taking effect. The U.S. Justice Department, publishers unless they withdraw 
A flurry of filings opposing and which is taking a look at Google's from a class-action settlement. Even supporting the class-action settle­book deal, has until Sept. 18 to share the German government expressed ment is expected by Friday -the its thoughts on the case. That llling its opposition to the settlement earli­deadlinn for most brinfs in tho case. may provide a better indication er this week, even though the agree­At lnast two other Google rivals, whether Justice believes ment only covers U.S. copyrights. 
' 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 3, 2009 
AFGHANISTAN 
Spyboss killed in suicide bombing 
Associated Press 
KABUL -A Taliban suicide bomber attacked officials leaving a mosque east of the capital Wednesday, killing the country's deputy intelligence chief and 22 other people in a major blow to Afghanistan's security forces. 
The brazen assault occurred as tensions are run­ning high after last month's divisive presidential election and a sharp rise in U.S. casu­alties -events that have already raised alarm in Washington over the future of President Barack Obama's strategy to turn the tide of the war. 
A Taliban spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahid, claimed responsibility for the bomb­ing, which happened as Afghan dignitaries were leav­ing the main mosque in Mehterlam, 60 miles (100 kilometers) east of Kabul, after ceremonies marking the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. 
The bomber approached the crowd on foot and detonated an explosive belt, killing 23 people, including Abdullah Laghmani, deputy chief of Afghanistan's National Directorate for Security and the target of the attack, according to provincial spokesman Sayed Ahmad Safi. 
The chairman of the local provincial council and the executive director of the local governor's office also died in the blast, Safi said. 
Laghmani, a close ally of President Hamid Karzai, was a major figure in Afghanistan's security and 

intelligence apparatus and his death was a setback to Afghan efforts to curb Taliban and other extremist activity. 
Laghmani formerly served as intelligence chief for Kandahar, the former Taliban spiritual capital in southern Afghanistan, and fought with a Tajik-dominated alliance that helped oust the Islamist movement from power during the U.S.-led invasion of 2001. 
In his most recent post, Laghmani directed intelli­gence operations especially in eastern Afghanistan and appointed local security offi­cials throughout the area. 
The attack occurred in a relatively safe city, serving as a deadly reminder that the militants are capable of strik­ing even in areas where their influence is not strong. 
U.S. troops cordoned off the blast site, filled with blood­spattered hulks of burned-out vehicles set on fire by the explosion. The local hospital was jammed with more than 50 wounded. 
"It is indefensible that such an attack was carried out at a mosque during the holy month of Ramadan," said Peter W. Galbraith, the deputy 
U.N. chief here. "The contrast between the vast majority of Afghans who yearn for peace during this holy month and those who conducted this attack could not be more stark." 
Karzai said in a statement that the "enemy" tried to kill "brave and hardworking" offi­cials, but others would take their place. 
The assassination of such a senior figure was a shock to the Karzai administration, already under fire for alleged fraud during the Aug. 20 presidential election. With votes tallied from 60 percent of the polling stations, the country's election commission said Wednesday that Karzai is leading with 47.3 percent, fol­lowed by ex-Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah with 32.6 percent. 
Karzai needs to win a majority of the votes to avoid a two-man runoff. 
But the balloting was marred by fraud charges from Abdullah and others in the 36-candidate field as well as a low voter turnout, especially in southern Pashtun areas where Taliban influence is strong but where the incum­bent was expected to draw most of his votes. 
The Obama administration had hoped that the election would produce a government with broad public support to confront the Taliban, combat corruption and curb the flour­ishing drug trade. 
Instead, Abdullah escalated his fraud allegations Wednesday, accusing the Afghan election commission of playing a role in "organized fraud" throughout the coun­try. 
"Proof and evidence show that with the cooperation of the election commission, a 
massive  fraud  has  taken  
place,"  Abdullah  told  
reporters.  
Abdullah  brought  some  

Pashtun tribal chiefs to Kabul on Tuesday to repeat his alle­gations of ballot box-stuffing and other irregularities in their home districts. 
Friday, September 4, 2009 
12:00 PM -2:00 PM 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Refreslunents will be served in the Hcunmes Cqfe 




Monk's 

From humble roots to university president ... 
Monk's Tale is a thoroughly engaging first installment of Reverend Edward A. Malloy's three-volUine metnoir. 
$25.00 hardcover Includes 36 halftones 

www.undpr~ss.nd.~du 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS 

CHINA 
China to approve single-dose vaccine 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -The answer may be near to a crucial question about vaccine for the advancing swine flu-one shot or two? 
Chinese officials say they are about to approve vaccines that prevent the new flu in a single dose. 
If they're right, it would be good news. Many health researchers fear it will take two shots to protect people, vastly complicating efforts to stem the spread of the illness. 
The World Health Organization says it is encouraged after reviewing the test details from one of the two Chinese vaccines. However, experts said more results are needed from other vaccine makers to determine if one dose would be potent enough. 
Australia-based CSL should know within days whether one dose of its vaccine, administered to volunteers in that country in late July, was enough. CSL to date has been mum. 
In about two weeks, the U.S. expects to announce initial test results from its vaccine, which is the same type as one of the Chinese versions, said Dr. Anthony Fauci of the U.S. National Institutes of Health. 
"From what I've seen and heard of the data, it looks encouraging," Fauci said of the clinical trials of the Chinese vac­cine from Sinovac Biotech Ltd. "This is very good news. Let's hope the material that we're using has similar results." 
Most experts agreed. 

"Everybody is desperately hop­ing that one (shot) will do because then that's much easier to administer," said Jodie McVernon, a vaccine expert at the University of Melbourne who is involved in Australian trials of swine flu vaccines for young chil­dren. She had not seen the Chinese trial resull<>. 
However, James McGlothlin, a member of Purdue University's pandemic planning committee, was cautious about the Chinese report. 
"They've got some very good scientists over there, but any­thing that sounds too good to be true ought to be scrutinized," he said in a telephone interview. 
''I'd like to look at some of the clinical trials," that led to the one-dose conclusion, he said. "In China, the rules an~ a little bit dif­ferent in terms of human sub­jects," and it's not clear what safety factors were in place, he said. 
China's State Food and Drug Administration said on its Web site it will make a decision this week on approving the two vac­cines, which completed testing last month and passed reviews by panels of about 40 experts. Four other vaccines are being reviewed, it said. 

Government-backed vaccine makers Sinovac and Hualan Biological Engineering Inc. said their studies show one shot of vaccine is effective on people ages 3 to 60. More than 3,000 people participated in the trials. 
Sinovac says it has the capacity to produce up to 30 million doses of swine flu vaccine in a year, while Hualan said it can make 160 million doses. 
Stockpiling vaccines is China's latest move in its aggressive approach to contain the spread of swine flu in the country of 1.3 bil­lion people and relatively limited medical resources. It has quaran­tined travelers on suspicion of contact with infected people and ordered schools to test students' temperatures. 
The Health Ministry says around 3,700 cases of swine flu have been confirmed on the mainland-none fatal. 
China aims to have enough swine flu vaccine for 5 percent of the public by the end of the year, and although health officials have not released detailed vaccination plans, they have said health workers, public service workers and students are priority groups. 
Should China export vaccines, however, quality concerns could arise. 
Though China is a worldwide manufacturing center for phar­maceuticals, suppliers have been known to substitute cheaper and sometimes lethal ingredients. Tainted cough syrup was linked to several deaths in Central America and blood thinners made with contaminated prod­ucts are suspected in dozens of deaths in the U.S. in recent years. 
Last week, Mexico's health sec­retary, Jose Angel Cordova, said Mexico L<> considering buying vac­cines from China, which would be more than 40 percent cheaper than other vaccines being offered to the government. But Mexico would want a guarantee that China's vaccine is safe and effec­tive, he said. 
The World Health Organization said information provided by Sinovac showed that in studies, the vaccines were tested in three formulations of 15 micrograms per dose, and all gave antibody responses that satisfied regulato­ry criteria. That vaccine dose is the same amount the U.S. gov­ernment is testing. 

Thursday, September 3, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Seattle libraries close for week 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -The main library in this book-loving city is an architectural landmark: a daring, contemporary temple to the written word that draws tourists as well as literary locals and those who just want a place to sit, read, rest or think. 
Just don't try checking any­thing out, returning an over­due book or even logging onto the online catalog this week. The city's entire library system -from its branches to book drops to Web site -is shut down to save money. 
"I think it's a very sad day ­week -for the city of Seattle that they can't access their local library, which is one of the most heavily used libraries in the country," said Nancy Pearl. the city's ex-librarian superstar and the author of "Book Lust," a best-selling tribute to the joy of reading. 
"And even beyond that immediate sorrow is that peo­ple can't go in and check out or find a good book to read" in a time of economic trouble, she said. 
All city departments have been told to reduce spending to make up a $43 million gap in Seattle's 2009 budget. The public library is trying to cut 2 percent, or about $1 million, and the weeklong closure of its downtown central library and 26 branches aims to save $655,000. About 700 library employees are forgoing a week of pay, with the system to reopen the day after Labor Day. 
Libraries have been targets for branch closures, reduced hours and job cuts as cities scramble for cash during the economic downturn, said American Library Association President Camila Alire, adding that the group did not have statistics on similar closures around the country. 
Among other places, cut­backs and closures have been proposed or instituted recently for libraries in Dallas, Philadelphia, Hawaii, Providence, R.I., and Norwich, Conn. 
The reduced hours or clo­sures come just as more peo­ple are using libraries for job searches, resume writing, to 
entertain themselves with  a  
free book or movie, or for  a  
place of refuge.  

In western Washington, where gray, damp winters lead to introspection, books and the Seattle Public Library have always been a popular escape. 
In the city of about 600,000, the library system estimates 80 percent of Seattle adults have a library card, and visits to libraries jumped from under 7 million in 2004 to more than 12 million last year. Friends of Seattle Public Library, a com­munity support group, says that as of July, library visits were up 8 percent over the same period in 2008. 
"It seems so bizarre for a city so steeped in its literature and cultural roots for its library to be closed," said Scottish tourist Cameron Burt, an architecture student at Glasgow's University of Strathclyde as he gazed at the building from the sidewalk outside its locked doors. 
Burt had hoped to stroll through the Rem Koolhaas­designed central library, whose angular, steel-and-glass walls enclose large, airy spaces that Seattleites have adopted as downtown's de facto living room since it 
opened five years ago. "Libraries should always be there for everyone," he said. 
Seattle has closed its libraries before, for two weeks each in 2002 and 2003 during earlier economic downturns. The city announced this week's closure in April. 
City Librarian Susan Hildreth said this week was chosen because school is not in session and general library use is low this time of year. Cutting branch hours could have saved the same amount of money, but the impacts would have lasted longer and meant layoffs. 
The system also is reducing training, putting off buying some staff computers and cut­ting administrative costs, including a 4.5 percent salary cut for Hildreth and library directors. 
Bill Dennis, a representative of the library workers' union, likewise said the closure was the most equitable way of han­dling a bad situation in which all city departments have had to share the pain, including jobs gone unfilled, reduced training and overtime, as well as deferred maintenance. 
Because much of the library's budget is for person­nel, that's where cuts had to be made, and weeklong fur­loughs were better than elimi­nating jobs outright, Dennis said. 
"Simply to cut jobs and put people out on the street does­n't help anybody," he said. 
No materials will be due and no fines will accrue during the closure. Library officials espe­cially cautioned people not to simply leave books or materi­als on library doorsteps, say­ing patrons will be responsible for any damage or thefts. 

Parton sings for park's anniversary 
Associated Press 
GATLINBURG -Homegrown superstar Dolly Parton sang "My Mountain, My Home" as leaders rededicated the Great Smoky Mountains National Park on its 75th anniversary in a ceremony Wednesday. 
'These are my mountains, my valleys. These are my rivers flowing like a song," sang Parton, her voice rising with emotion amid the surrounding forest as some 2,000 people gathered at America's most-visit­ed park. 
Park supporters, lawmakers and others applauded Parton atop Newfound Gap on the Tennessee-North Carolina line as guests, including elderly former residents, recalled fond memo­ries and great pride about the park's 1934 founding. 
"I have always been an ambassador for the Smoky Mountains because I tell every­body how beautiful these moun­tains are," Parton said. "And no matter where I go, if you say something about the Smoky Mountains, even if the people have not been here, they just smile." 
Wednesday marked the anniversary of then-president Franklin D. Roosevelt's speech in 1940 from the same stone stage as he lauded the park's creation. Roosevelt's chair was placed empty on the stage built by Civilian Conservation Corps vol­unteers. 
"I remember seeing the presi­dent. I was only 5 years old, but I remember everybody was hav­ing a good time," said Eva Ogle Webb, 7 4, whose family lived on land that became part of the park at its 1934 formation. 
Roosevelt remains the only sit­ting president to ever come to the 520,000-acre (210,000­hectare) Smokies, the most-visit­ed national park with more than 9 million visitors annually. President George W. Bush got as far as Knoxville's airport a few years ago, but a storm blocked his planned trip into the park. 
U.S. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar called for continuing investment and commitment to such parks, calling them "trea­sured landscapes for future gen­erations." 
"I am here today on behalf of President Barack Obama to cele­brate Great Smoky Mountains National Park, to honor our ancestors who left us this treas­ure, and to rededicate an American icon for a new centu­ry," Salazar said. 
Every member of the Tennessee and North Carolina congressional delegation who represents the Smokies attended the ceremony along with Tennessee Gov. Phil Bredesen and North Carolina Gov. Bev Perdue. 
"My left foot is in North Carolina. my right foot is in Tennessee," Perdue exclaimed. "And the beauty of this place is that when you are here there is no North Carolina or no Tennessee. There is only one gift from God." 
Bredesen noted the Smokies' formation is unique in the park system. The land was purchased with private donations, state funding and even pennies col­lected from children across the country. 

Meet the Author 

+ 

St. Martin's Press and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore invite you to celebrate Jim Dent's newest book/ Resurrection 
Jim will be at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore signing his book on 
Friday, September 4 
3:00pm-5:00pm & 


Saturday, September 5 
11 :30om -1 :30pm 

Resurrection is the story of Ara Parseghian, an unexpected choice for head foot­ball coach and the first selected from outside the Notre Dame "family." The task before him was not simple: to rebuild a once proud program and teach a team how to win again. 
HAMMES 


NOTRE DAME 

For questions please call 574.631.5757 BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (5741631·6316 •www.ndtotolog.<Olll 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 3, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EOITDR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EOITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO 1 @sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The tree expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh6nvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccpr during cum and v:lcuion pcriod.t. A subM:ripdon nt!he Observer is $120 tOr one academic ye.r; $(15 for om: semester. 
The Observer 15 published ;~r: POSTMASTER 024 Somh Dining Hall Send .addrm. eotm:tions to: Nouc Dame, IN 46S56-.0n9 The Observer Periodkal po.<>t~ paid at Notre o~ P.O.Box779 and additional mailing offices. 014 South Dining H.aH 
Ne"" I>.un~ IN 46556-<)779 
The Observer is a member afrhc As&oci.ared Press. AU tcprOOucdon rights an: re;erved. 
I spent the first two weeks of the New Year traveling through Spain. I tried, each day, to make some sfmse of it-to fit things I saw disconnect­ed into some kind of coherent narra­tive. In the end, this was -like all Daniel John narratives in a 
Sportiello
fallen world ­something of a fal­Bound sification. But it Variables was not, I think, entirely without merit: I understand Spain better now, understand what its history means for human nature. I have learned the story of Spain -a story that came together only at the end. 
In the final days of my journey, I went to the Valley of the Fallen, high in the mountains over Madrid. It is a war memorial to and a mass grave for 40,000 who died in their civil war -a memorial hewn deep into the mountain by Franco's political prison­ers. It is the fascist dream given phys­ical form, a cavernous underground basilica into which one descends as though into one's own tomb. It is a grotesque inversion, almost a parody, of Saint Peter's, an echo of death itself-silent, patient and inevitable. 
It is difficult to describe how it felt to be there -and even more diftlcult to describe my reasons for going. I suppose that I needed to see how the story ended. For the Valley of the Fallen is the logical conclusion of the glorious dream of empire born so nobly five hundred years earlier in the conquest of Granada, when Ferdinand and Isabel hoped that they might build the city of God here on earth. This was no small thing, but like all waking dreams it ended in 


Francoisnt 
madness. 

Behind the altar is a grave that, almost alone among the thousands, has a name on it: Generalissimo Francisco Franco. He lies triumphant in this travesty that he built in God's name, his grave inviolate under the dome of the mountain. I confess that I wanted to spit on it. I almost did. But it occurred to me that I had no right: Franco was evil, no doubt. But could I be sure that, had I been in his shoes, l would have done differently than he had? Could I be sure that I would have been on the right side? Could I be sure that I was now? 
For there is something of Franco, something of the dream that was Spain, in my own heart-something glorious and zealous and entirely mad. Something evil: the temptation to build the city of God on earth, no matter the cost. It might be that my life will take such a course that, someday, students idealistic and naive will come to spit on my grave. If I am honest, I must admit that between me and depravity stands only the whim of history. The glorious madness lies curled inside-silent, patient and inevitable. 
And yet. There is something glori­ous in the attempt of the Spanish Empire to transcend the merely human, something sublime. Are the 500,000 victims of their civil war too high a price to pay for "Las Meninas?" For "The Burial of the Count of Orgaz?" For "Saturn Devouring His Son?" Are the count­less millions subjugated by the Spanish Empire, broken in the plan­tations and mines of the Americas, too high a price to pay? And, if not, isn't even one victim too high a price to pay? But to what extent does it even make sense to ask these ques­tions? 
Nietzsche reiterates, again and again, that it is ever profound evil that makes anything truly worthwhile possible. His words are certainly true of Spain: the glory of Velazquez was borne aloft by the rape and pillage of Cortez and Pizarro. The zeal of El Greco was not different in kind from that of Torquemada. And the sublime horror of Goya was but an echo of the madness to which he had borne wit­ness his entire life. 
Nietzsche concludes, ultimately, that we must affirm everything, no matter how awful. That we must learn not just to bear but to love fate, to make this world in its sublimity and its madness entirely our own. He might not be wrong. But this is, I sup­pose, little consolation to the fallen. It does not make their sacrifice any eas­ier to bear. 
In the end, it might not matter: there is indeed a part of me willing to trade my soul for glory. But I fear that the same might be said of all of us: this darkness is in each of our hearts -an original sin if ever there was one. Is Generalissimo Francisco Franco still dead, then? Not quite, I think: he lives in all of us -silent, patient, and inevitable. The Valley of the Fallen is our tomb as much as his. This is the story of Spain. 
Daniel John Sportiello is a second year Doctorate ofPhilosophy student. He can be contacted at dsportie@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

News Sports Robert Singer Alex Barker Did you like the Block Party last Irena Zajickova Mike Gotimer weekend? 


Submit a Letter 
_Megan Loney Scene · Viewpoint Alexandra Yes 

''The trouble with being poor is that it takes up all ofyour time." 
Stephanie Vossler Kilpatrick No 


to the Editor at 
Graphics Didn't go 

William de Kooning
Andrea Archer Mmm, beer... 

www.ndsmcobserver~com U.S. painter 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 3, 2009 page 11 
Here at the beginning of all things ... 
As a freshman at Notre Dame, blatant­ly ignoring the fact that my SAT verbals were triple my math scores, and that I hated the sight of blood, I enrolled as an Arts and Letters Preprofessional, focused on a career in medicine. Two 
Fr. Lou Delfra

weeks in, as I heard the marching band practicing for the Faith Point home opener, I walked out of my chem lab -where the powder just wouldn't turn&!*!# green!-and kept on walking. 
Four years later, having settled into PLS and the resulting ageless wisdom it imparted, I bolted off to law school. I vis­ited Duke Law School the day after the Blue Devils had stunned Kentucky on a last-second shot to go to the Final Four. Their whole quad was toilet-papered, and a huge black spot was signed into the quad where the Duke students had burned their dorm furniture in celebra­tion. Coming off four great years of Top five Irish football (yes, I am that old), I knew I had found a home! 
I lasted four weeks in law school... Beginnings are often deceiving times. 
As a priest, I often have to preach about the story of the first disciples being called by Jesus. It's not an easy story for me. Four disciples are fishing and mending there nets on the shore of the Sea of Galilee. Jesus walks by, says "Come follow me" and "they dropped their nets and followed him." That ticks me off. 
I had to suffer through impossibly futile Friday afternoon chem labs, and the most miserable month of my life at Duke and 15 other dead ends I could bore you with, before I finally came to understand how God was tugging at my heart. But these four disciples get a direct command from God -"Your life goes this way" -and off they go. These stories are often titled in our Bibles as "The Call of the First Disciples" but I sometimes feel they should be called "The Luck of the First Disciples: How Jesus Saved Them from the Pain of Discernment and Making Choices." 
It turns out the Gospels are full of sto­ries of the disciples impulsively -and sometimes misguidedly-trying to fol­low where Jesus is leading. One day, Peter sees Jesus walking on water and impulsively demands to be allowed to 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


The audacity of arrogance 

Not too long ago, the so-called Bush "Torture Memos" were released. The debate about the alleged torture the Bush Administration perpetrated during his term in office has been and remains a contentious debate that has recently exploded with the release of the memos. Last week, the administration, through the Attorney General, decided to move forward with an investigation of the CIA techniques. Now I will admit I did not vote for President Obama, however he is my president and deserves my respect and support. But his recent actions deserve rep­rimand. 
The media has spun this issue from day one trying to vilify the Bush Administration for using cer­tain interrogation tactics during wartime. This has clouded the true nature of our intelligence gathering and birthed an unhealthy arro­gance by the Obama election team. and now administration. This "I am holier and more moral than thou" attitude is unhealthy and danger­ous. I recall President Obama urg­ing and promising a forward look­ing agenda, not one that plays political games during wartime. Perhaps, those in this community have forgotten the celebrated words Martin Sheen spoke while accepting his Laetare Medal two years ago during graduation cele­brations. "Arrogance is ignorance matured." 
If people would actually read the memos, which I am guessing most have not, the types of interrogation techniques that were outlined actu­ally have quite sound legal reason­ing. They are very controlled tech­niques with doctors and other staff on hand carrying out very detailed and limited procedures. The water­boarding technique that has gar­nered so much attention has been limited to specific, high value pris­oners. These are prisoners that are believed to have information that could thwart an imminent threat to the U.S community; keyword being imminent threat. In fact, Obama's Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair released an internal memo confirming that valuable information had been gained by these techniques; information that might not have been gathered oth­erwise. He goes on to say that while he believes he would not choose to allow these techniques, he does not fault those who made the decisions. 
It is rather appalling to hear an investigation, with possible prose­cution, is being used as a political tool to punish members of the intel­ligence community who were given authorization to use these tech­niques. Many people forget we are at war. This atmosphere of arro­gance that Obama has shown has not only limited our intelligence gathering techniques, but has pro­vided our enemies with details about the limits with which we can interrogate. It is ignorant to think that this politicizing of the intelli­gence community has not made our nation less safe. 
Jared Sawyer Holy Cross alumus Louisville, Ky. Sept. 1 


join him. Save for some solid life-guard­ing skills on Jesus' part, this did not go well for Peter. Later, Peter experiences Jesus' divinity in the Transfiguration. He blurts out, "Let us build tents here so we can stay forever!" Jesus politely informs him this is the wrong answer -that they must descend the mountain to face hardship and suffering. James and John, disappointed at a city's response to the preaching of the Kingdom, ask Jesus if they might call down fire and brimstone on the people there. I would love to have 
been inside Jesus' brain as he heard that 
one. 

In the Gospels, beginnings are exhila­rating, but also uncertain times. For the disciples, beginnings are full of missteps -as they are for us. They are filled with sometimes laughable (in hindsight!) shots in the dark. Decisions we make with swelled chests and exuberant struts sometimes leave us, soon afterwards, scratching our heads -"What was I thinking?" 
For me, part of the liberating power of the Gospels is how lovingly -even encouragingly-Jesus responds to the disciples' frequent missteps. In fact, I imagine him secretly delighting in how exuberantly they take risks on behalf of his mission. "This is why I called them!" he must have assuredly mused, as Peter laid his first foot on the water's surface, or James and John called down their ill­conceived hellfire. Jesus discerns in their enthusiasm the hints of dogged commitment when, ultimately, they come to understand his call. "With them, I can change the world!" 
Jesus' call-particularly at the begin­ning of new stages of our lives -is not a call to be unerring in our discernment, to make no mistakes, to take no risks. Instead, I might even guess that our hunger for risk in trying to hear and heed God's call rather pleases our Lord -who, after all, took a number of them himself. Commitments to lives of disci­pleship -even if the specific commit­ments turn out to be a bit misguided ­are a beautiful way to ... begin. 
This week's Faith Point was written by Fr. Lou DelFra, Director ofCampus Bible Studies and ACE Chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 

College is vvhere character is built, not changed 
Looking back three years in my life, I was in the same boat as all of you freshmen are in now. I was wide-eyed and looking for adventure, dreaming about making an impact over my college career. I was coming to college to become 
Bret Babcock 

a "new" person. I had plans of what I was going to do, University of what I wanted to 
Toldeo 

learn while studying and how I wanted to leverage myself for the future. 
As I fast-forward three years, I really haven't changed all that much, and I still have similar plans. I still want to learn, and I'm still trying to leverage myself towards that great career which will give me a great future. The fact is, the person that I was, coming into college, isn't much different then the person I am now. In this fact, I can find security and reservation, because I can look back on my college career and say that I did­n't change who I am; I only got better. I say this in all humbleness, because I have truly had shortcomings these last three years, but these shortcomings have contributed to my betterment. It can be said that character is built; it isn't changed or shifted-it is simply built. And that saying gets back to something I learned in my first few weeks here at the University of Toledo as a freshman. 
I was in my first Honors Reading Conference, and I had a professor that was a very intelligent man but was very frustrating at the same time. Needless to say, after my first two papers were returned with bad grades, I really couldn't stand him. I ended up working through the rest of the semester and I got progressively better in my writings and became better because of it. (I even thanked the professor at the end of the semester for challenging me.) This taught me what it means to be persistent, but it was something that he said in one of my classes that has meant the most to me. 
It was early on in the semester, and he stopped a discussion on one of our readings to say something along these lines, "Over your college career you are going to learn and experience things that will challenge the things you learned as a child. These experi­ences could change the way you think or believe about issues and could challenge what you thought was right and wrong. But I will give you fair warning: Everything you have learned growing up isn't wrong, and you should not abandon your principles just because you came across something else that has challenged it. It is okay to challenge your beliefs, but don't throw them away eas­ily." 
Now, the above quote is not verbatim, but it gets the point across. 
You come into college around the young age of 18 (you're more of a child than you are an adult), and you will meet new people who think differently than you. Through meeting new people, you will be exposed to new philosophies and belief systems that are foreign and intriguing to you; and there is great value in this. However, don't let this exposure change who you are; instead, learn about these beliefs and study them, then see ifthey align with who you are. 
As I stated earlier, character is built, it isn't changed or shifted. You already have a char­acter foundation, so you can only build onto it-you can't move your foundation. You may think you have "changed" your charac­ter, but that is just a distraction, and you will soon find that out. In essence, success is found in constant building, not radical changes. So look at these new experiences as ways to build up your character and become a better person, instead of changing who you are. 
I took this advice to heart, and I believe I have become better because of it. I have challenged my own beliefs while in college and because of that I am more firm in those beliefs today than I was when I first got here. 
College isn't a time or place where you come to change who you are; it is a time to experience exciting new things and become a better person. Take this principle to heart: Success in life is not found in changing who you are; it is found in constantly becoming a better person. 
Lastly, to all the freshman out there: Look at these next four to five years as a time where you can grow stronger in what you believe in right now and learn as much as you can, because college isn't about becom­ing a "new" person, it's about bettering yourself. 
Best of luck and have fun! 
This column first ran in the Aug. 31 edi­tion ofThe Independent Collegian, the daily newspaper serving The University ofToledo. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 3, 2009 




AYS AN 
CLASSIC 





country lovers, "American Classic" resonates with any
By LILLIAN CIVANTOS 
fan of musical Americana.
Scene Writer 
Nelson's musical break­through came over 30 years
There is no doubt that 
ago, with the 1978 releaseWillie Nelson is an of "Stardust." Defying the
American classic. His career stereotypes of the time for a
spans several decades and popular artist, particularlyincludes many awards and 
in country, Nelson collectedhonors. He is as well known favorite songs of his child­for his pop-culture persona 
hood into the first-ever
-the free-spirited hippie­
"Great American Songbook."
cowboy -as for his musical 
The result was a runaway
talent. His songs, including 
success, and such collec­
"On the Road Again" and 
tions have now become
"Always on My Mind," are 
standard for any popularcountry anthems. In his artist. Few young people
newest album, "American realize that Willie Nelson
Classic," Willie Nelson deliv­
started this now common
ers, giving 12 beloved 
tradition. Today, critics arefavorites a new twist in his 
saying that "American
familiar style. Not just for 
Classic" is the long­awaited sequel to
American Classic 

"Stardust," as Willie once again
Willie Nelson 

pays tribute to the great musical tra­dition that came 
Label: Blue Note 
Recommended Tracks: "Fly Me to 
before him. 
While "Stardust" was more distinc­tively country, "American Classic" hearkens to Nelson's youth, evoking the music he grew up with in the 1930s and 1940s more than the "outlaw country" movement that became his trademark. Like any Frank Sinatra or Bing Crosby album, "American Classic" fits perfectly for an elegant dinner party or a slow-mov­ing dance number. 

The album begins with "The Nearness of You," which was written in 1938 and first became popular as sung by Ray Eberle. It has since been re-recorded by many artists, including Keith Hichards, Norah Jones and Diana Krall. Both Jones and Krall appear in "American Classic," each collaborating with Nelson for one song. Although Nelson is best known for Country Western, you can't really tell in this album. Where a strong country twang would ruin these sweet old-fashioned ballads, Nelson tastefully plays down his roots. This is clear from the very first song, where mellow piano complements Nelson's gentle vocals with a beautiful result. 
First recorded in 1954, "Fly Me to the Moon" has been recorded many times as well -most famously by 

Frank Sinatra -but never quite as Nelson plays it. !lis melodious voice conveys a yearning tenderness with every syllable. This song will leave you floating amongst the stars with Willie. "Come Rain or Come Shine" is borrowed from the 1946 musical "St. Louis Woman," and has been cov­ered by greats like Billie 
Today, critics are saying that "American Classic" is the long awaited sequel to "Stardust," as Willie once again pays tribute to the great musical tradition that came before him. 
Holiday, Judy Garland, Hay Charles and Barbra Streisand. In this song and in "On the Street Where You Live," Nelson conveys a country aura more strongly than in most of the album. 
In "If I Had You," one of the album's strongest num­bers, Nelson more than lives up to his predecessors, teaming up with Diana Krall in a gently piano-driven number that whispers of 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

old-time romance. In 2001, the song "Ain't Misbehavin"' was selected one of 365 "Songs of the Century" by HIAA. It gains a new magic in Nelson's hands, and allows him to play up his soft side more than most modern country singers. 
Don't miss Nelson's mis­chievous duet with Norah Jones on Christmas classic "Baby It's Cold Outside." Her fresh, youthful voice blends beautifully with his mellow entreaties. 
Nelson closes the album appropriately with "Always On My Mind." Although more than 300 artists have recorded this song, Nelson's 1982 rendition is definitely the best known. It won "Song of the Year," "Best Country Song," and "Best Male Country Vocal Performance" at the 25th Grammy awards in 1983. The song has lost none of its magic through the years. Neither has Willie Nelson. As this album proves, he is and always will be an American classic. 
Contact Lillian Civantos at lcivantos@nd.edu 

the People," the 1830 paint­ing by Eugene Delacroix adorning the cover of their latest album "Viva Ia Vida or Death and All His Friends," appeared through the fog as the stage's backdrop. What followed was an engaging and enthralling performance of personal favorites and crowd­pleasers including "Clocks," "Viva Ia Vida," "Fix You," and "Lost!" and more. Audiences never grew bored. 
During the first encore's performance of "Lovers in Japan," the stage took on a beautiful violet hue as video images complimenting the song's lyrics played on the big screen. All of a sudden with a magical wave of his Japanese umbrella, Chris Martin brought a shower of butterfly confetti over the front rows and band, coordinating the hopeful imagery with the piece's theme. The smiles brought to audience mem­bers' faces were irrepress­ible. 
The front rows were not the only ones that received love from the members of Coldplay. Chris Martin (lead vocals, keyboards, guitar), Jonny Buckland (lead guitar), Guy Berryman (bass guitar) and Will Champion (drums, backing vocals) ventured out onto additional stages set up in the venue to get as close as possible to all of their adoring fans. Songs like "Green Eyes," 

What followed was an engaging and enthralling performance ofpersonal favorites and crowd­pleasers including "Clocks," "Vlva La Vlda," "Fix You" and "Lost!" and more. Audiences never grew bored. 
"Death Will Never Conquer" and a cover of The Monkees 'Tm a Believer" were played up close and personally for all to appreciate. 
A second encore of "The Scientist" and "Life in 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

Technicolor ii" ended the show and with it a night of invaluable entertainment. Free COs full of some of Coldplay's best live perform­ances were handed out to audience members as they headed to their cars, taking the concert experience above and beyond what any fan could dream of. 
Coldplay's 163-show "Viva Ia Vida Tour," which began June 16, 2008 and will end Sept. 19, 2009 has included a whirlwind of performances all over the world ranging from Europe to North America, and Asia to Australasia. Their success has been so large that they have even been booked three nights in a row at various venues. The only disappoint­ment in their June 5, 2009 performance in Noblesville, Ind. was that they didn't stick around another night. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
By ADRIANA PRATT Scene Writer 
Chris Martin was 10 feet away from me jumping around with his band mates as he blew on his harmonica. Thank goodness I hadn't for­gotten my picture-taking cell phone as I rushed to the mini-stage located in the vast expanse of the concert's lawn, or else the image of Coldplay, glistening from the fantastic enthusiasm and energy they put into their performance, would have been eventually lost in my feeble memory. 
Call me a bad sibling if you must, but there was no way I was going to miss the Coldplay concert this summer even if it fell on the same night as my sister's gradua­tion. Don't worry; I stayed through the ceremony (com­plete with a sloppy version of "Pomp and Circumstance"), gave my congratulations and only after the final "sister hug" did I rush out the door. I'd already missed Snow Patrol's opening performance, but hey, sometimes you have to make sacrifices. 
The show started off vibrantly with a performance as visually appealing as it was musically. The instru­mental intro to "Life in Technicolor" slowly faded in, bringing with it the dancing members of Coldplay who used only the sparklers in their hands to find their instruments. As the music grew louder and the sun went down, the brilliant stage lighting turned up, highlight­ing the quintessential Coldplay costumes that mate­rialize the chic British Coldplay vibe. Magical giant light bulbs hung on stage, serving as screens for close­up shots of the band members and immense holders of con­fetti that would be released throughout the concert. 
"Life in Technicolor" mor­phed into "Violet Hill" and the image of "Liberty Leading 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, September 3, 2009 
page 13 

By NICK ANDERSON Scene Writer 
For the past 20 years, fans have been waiting for hip hop to get their own version of The Beatles. This expectation is unreasonable for all sorts of reasons (unless you're a fan of The Wu-Tang Clan, then it's already happened). Strangely enough, there are precedents for some of hip hop's biggest names. Eminem is a self­styled Elvis. More importantly, OutKast is as close as our genera­tion will ever come to a reincar­nation of Prince. The combination of commercial and critical suc­cess, ubiquitous hit singles and even a movie form a powerful force in a culture whose attention span has been reduced to Disney bands and ring-tone rappers. 
Continuing the Prince compari­son, "Stankonia" is OutKast's "Sign '0' the Times." It's an ambi­tious album in which their cre­ativity and talent come to a remarkable zenith. Everyone is unconsciously aware of it, even if it's only because of the ever pres­ent "Ms. Jackson," one of the catchiest and most brilliant sin­gles to come out in the past 15 years. Its radio play unfairly over­shadowed not only the other sin­gles but also the album as a whole. It's too bad because "Ms. Jackson" came off of one of the catchiest and most brilliant albums of the past 15 years. 
"Stankonia" comes from "the center of the earth, seven light years below sea level ... the place from which all funky thangs come." Andre 3000 and Big Boi take their inspiration from George Clinton, who first used "stank" to describe funk music, but they do things with it which Clinton never would have imagined. Starting with funk, they incorporate such a wide variety of influences and styles that it's near impossible to describe the album more specifi­cally than hip hop. Starting with funk, they quickly move to a loose approximation of alt rock, fol­lowed by a pop tune, and contin­ue to soul, disco and even a bal­lad. Each attempt performs at an amazing level. 
OutKast has described them­selves as a "playa and a poet;" Big Boi being the former and Andre 3000 being the latter. This dynamic was taken to an extreme on their double album "Speakerboxxx/The Love Below" but it works much better when they play off of each other within songs. The pair regularly alter­nate verses on each song result­ing in outstanding charisma and songs which include references to skiing, elephants and tennis mixed with smoking crack, tricked out cars and bad women. This is done incredibly smoothly, leaving the listener awestruck. Even the interludes between songs add to the feel of the album, a truly uncommon occurrence. 

The culmination of the album comes just before the halfway point of the album with its first single, "B.O.B." Also less success­ful than both "Ms. Jackson" and "So Fresh and So Clean," "Bombs Over Bagdad" brings impressive energy, unreal sonic texture and wandering stream of conscious­ness lyrics over heavy booty-bass beats, electronic details and even a choir. It walks on the edge of chaos but is completely comfort­able there, never coming close to disaster, even as the chorus descends into nothing more than, "Power music, electric revival." 
Instead, those words show that not only can OutKast make hip hop and electronica, but welcome guitar riffs and harmonies. Of course, those of you cool enough to pay attention already know that Pitchfork named it the top track of the 2000s. 
In making "Stankonia," OutKast both transcended and embraced hip hop. In doing so, they created an album that is both essential to the genre and a timeless classic for anyone with a passing interest in music. "Stankonia" is only 10 years old, but its direct influence and inspiration can already be heard throughout the current music landscape. Undoubtedly, its standing with both music critics and fans will only increase with time. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nandersS@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 3, 2009 
U.S. OPEN TENNIS 

Former champ Safin ousted in first round of final US Open 
Rafael Nadal earns straight-set victory in first Grand Slam match since loss in French Open final 
said Melzer, a 28-year-old never 
..sociated Press 

past the third round at a major 
NEW YORK-Marat Safin tournament. "I guess he's strutted off the Grand Slam happy. I would be happy if I had stage with little of the sound or a career like that." fury that accompanied so much Apparently, Satin is, too, not­of his combustible career. ing more than once Wednesday 
No postmatch pomp-and-cir­that he has no regrets. cumstance for the two-time His career is fizzling out, with major champion and former No. a 12-18 record in 2009, includ­1-ranked player. No on-court ing a first-round loss at interview. No bow to the crowd. Wimbledon in June. And for the record: no broken And his departure deprives rackets. tennis of one its more out­
When Safin finished losing landish and outspoken stars. meekly to Jurgen Melzer of As Melzer put it: "I don't Austria in a fairly uneventful 1-watch a lot of tennis; I have a 6, 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 first-round exit lot of tennis in my life. But at the U.S. Open on Wednesday, when Marat played, I sat down the big Russian simply collected and watched, because it was his things and strode away with something you don't see from a quick wave. the other players." 
Looking for some sentimental­That's for sure. This is a guy, ity? Not even a trace. after all, who once celebrated a 
"It's OK. It's the end. So, just, great shot at the French Open it's the last one. Could have by grabbing his white shorts been better ending, but still and tugging them down to his OK," Safin said. "I don't care thighs. about losses anymore." Safin was penalized a point 
The 29-year-old Satin is retir­for that -he also was docked ing at the end of the season, so $500 for throwing a racket in this trip to Flushing Meadows the same match -then later marked his last Grand Slam ranted: "All of the people who thing else." ment," said Gasquet, a 2007 wide patches of white tape tournament. It's a fitting site for run the sport, they have no When asked about being the Wimbledon semifinalist and above and below her left knee, his finale: Satin burst onto the clue. It's a pity that the tennis is opponent in Satin's Grand Slam former top-10 player. "Day which began bothering her scene by upsetting Pete really going down the drain. ... goodbye, Melzer used the after day, he will improve his when she struggled through a Sampras to win the 2000 U.S. They do everything possible to, phrase, "if he really retires." level. For sure, he can win." first-round win Monday. Like Open. you know, just to take away the Why the word "if'? Nadal's matter-of-fact Nadal, Williams looked hale 
He called that victory "just a entertainment -'You're not "With Marat," Melzer said, assessment: "I played well, Wednesday, and she easily dis­miracle for me." allowed to do that. You're not "you never know." no?" patched Bethanie Mattek­
"I really didn't believe I could allowed to do this."' One could certainly make Sands of the United States 6-4, get anywhere closer to the final He's complained about the Rafael Nadal def. Richard Gasquet the case he wasn't facing the 6-2. of a Grand Slam. And then, high price and low quality of Everyone's been curious toughest competition. Gasquet "She was moving like a cat," after beating Sampras, I never the food in the players' restau­about the condition of Hafael has been away from the tour, Mattek-Sands said. really understood what hap­rant at Wimbledon. And the list Nadal's knees, so it made too, recently. He served a 2112-Nadal never mentioned his pened," Satin said. "It was diffi­goes on and on and on. sense that his first Grand Slam month ban after testing posi­knee issues publicly until after cult, because I was 20 years As much of a talker as he is, opponent in three months tive for cocaine; Gasquet suc­the French Open, but he said old. I wasn't ready for this, so Satin grew weary this year of would wonder as well. cessfully appealed what would Wednesday the pain dated to it's really difficult to understand speaking about his retirement. Which might explain why have been a far more severe April, when he won the Monte it.... I wasn't prepared." Not exactly the type for a Richard Gasquet tried a drop punishment, saying the drug Carlo Masters. He also won 
Safm certainly gained a repu­farewell tour. shot deep in the third set of entered his system inadver­the next week, and the week tation for enjoying his status as "It's too many questions about his U.S. Open match against tently when he kissed a after that, but he now attrib­a well-paid and popular sports what I'm going to do, why I'm Nadal on Wednesday. Nadal woman at a nightclub. utes that success to "being on star. Some say he frittered away retiring, and this and that. So I made the long run necessary Nadal's absence was far a roll." the talent spread around his 6-answer the same question, I to get to the ball, and flipped more run-of-the-mill. He had­The recent time off means foot-4, 195-pound frame -don't know, a thousand times. it back over the net, winning n't played at a major tourna­he has played a lot less than those powerful serves and Just go on Google, and you have the point. ment since May 31, when his he's accustomed to by this groundstrokes, the tremendous the same answer," he said A moment later, as if con­31-match French Open win­time in the season, which is a court coverage. Wednesday. "But it's OK. Few spiring with Nada! to show ning streak ended in the benefit at the last Grand Slam 
He reached No. 1 in tournaments to go, so I can everyone how fit the six-time fourth round at Roland event of the year. He's never November 2000, before injuries manage." major champion truly is these Garros. The Spaniard cited been past the semifinals in and other issues dropped him The plan is to wrap things up days. Gasquet offered up knee tendinitis in deciding not New York. from the top rather swiftly. at the Paris Masters in another drop shot. to defend his Wimbledon title, "I am more fresh, yeah. Safin lost two major finals November. As for what comes Nadal got to that one, too. and the layoff was a big rea­Fresher than ever in this tour­before adding a second Grand after that, Safin won't say -Starting a bid to win the son Nadal has dropped from nament. I don't know if this Slam title at the 2005 other than that he wants to get only Grand Slam title missing No. 1 in the rankings to No. 3. kind of fresh is good," he said. Australian Open. away from the world of tennis. from his resume,· Nadal Nadal didn't wear any tape "No excuses about being very 
But that would be it. He No TV job for him. encountered no apparent near his knees Wednesday, tired." would never win another title of ''I'm different than another trouble from his much-scruti­something he's done in the Still, Nadal finds it amusing any sort, major or otherwise. person who wants to lay back nized legs in a 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 past, much less the sort of that there has been so much 
"To win two Grand Slams -and do nothing for rest of the victory over Gasquet at bulky bandages Venus discussion about his knees and you have to really appreciate life and talk nonsense on ESPN, Flushing Meadows. Williams showed up with for his time away from the tour. that and give him credit for talk about my match against Gasquet, for one, was her second-round match. "Seems like I was two years that. Of course, he had the tal­Sampras," Safin said. "I will not impressed. Williams, the 2000-01 cham­outside of competition," he ent to probably win five or six," do that. I want to achieve some-"He can win the tourna-pion at the U.S. Open, had said. "It was two months." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 



LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Silver ring with gold cross and anchors in or around Rockne. 
J. Denn CSC 631-3999. 


WANTED 
PART TIME WORK 
$14.25 base-appt.,no experience needed,customer sales/service, 57 4-273-3835. 

FoR RENT 
Home for rent football weekends. Walk to stadium, sleeps 6-10. williamckelly@gmail.com 
ND vs MSU Weekend, Sept. 18, 19,20. Rooms in Sacred Heart Parish Hall on campus. $400/per person two nights includes game ticket, bed, parking, K of C Smoker, Lunch at Morris Inn tent, etc. All profits go to South Jersey Notre Dame Club Scholarship Fund. Email: Bi11Burns.68@Aiumni.nd.ed or call Bill Burns 609-368-1962. 
Remodeled 2-bdrm house, less than 1 0-min walk to ND. For rent or sale with guaranteed repurchase. 269-267-4008. 
ATTN: GRAD STUDENTS/FACUL­TY EXECUTIVE HOUSE 4 RENT. 2BR, 2 1/2 Bath, LR, DR, SunRm, kitchen, washer/dryer, 2-car attached garage + security sys­tems. Close to Notre Dame. Available now. One Year Lease -Shown By Appt.only. 1-262-332-0015 (Cell). 



TICKETS 

Businessman buying season GA tickets. 574-277-1659. 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS 
Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
Desperately need season tix/MSU, BC. 
Call574-654-01681ocal call. 

PERSONAL 

EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING 
ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. 
Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. 
www.act.org/essaystudy 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NO s website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, Septmeber 3, 2009 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Football APTop 25 

team  points  previous  
1  Florida  1498  1  
2  Texas  1424  4  
3  Oklahoma  1370  5  
4  usc  1313  3  
5  Alabama  1156  6  
6  Ohio State  1113  9  
7  Virginia Tech  1054  15  
8  Mississippi  1047  14  
9  Oklahoma State  989  16  
9  Penn Stale  989  8  
11  LSU  914  NR  
12  California  746  NR  
13  Georgia  714  13  
14  Boise Slate  659  11  
15  Georgia Tech  593  22  
16  Oregon  587  10  
17  TCU  521  7  
18  Florida Slate  307  21  
19  Utah  289  2  
20 21  Brigham Young North Carolina  267 261  25 NR  
22  Iowa  229  20  
23  NOTRE DAME  225  NR  
24  Nebraska  207  NR  
25  Kansas  134  NR  

Women's Soccer NSCAA/adidas Top 25 
team points previous 
1 North Carolina 824 1 2 NOTRE DAME n2 2 3 Portland 760 3 4 Stanford 736 4 5 Aorida State 700 5 6 Aorida 652 7 7 West Virginia 522 14 8 Virginia 512 10 9 UCLA 498 9 10 TexasA&M 481 6 11 Illinois 466 13 12 San Diego 430 15 13 Penn State 421 8 14 Purdue 324 RV 15 Colorado 296 18 16 Boston College 289 20 17 Wake Forest 265 RV 18 Georgia 260 16 19 Minnesota 157 17 20 Oklahoma State 154 21 21 Utah 153 NR 22 Santa Clara 137 19 23 Missour 83 22 24 Duke 77 11 25 St. John's (N.Y.) 72 NR 
Men's Golf Rankings Golf World/NIKE Top 10 
team points 
1 Texas A&M 25 2 Arkansas 24 3 Georgia 23 4 Michigan 23 5 Arizona State 21 6 Southern California 21 7 Washington 21 8 Oklahoma State 21 9 TCU 17 1o Georgia Tech 16 
around the dial 
NCAA FooTBALL South Carolina at North Carolina State 7 p.m., ESPN 
NFL Browns at Bears 8 p.m., SBT2 

MLB 

AP Astros first baseman Aaron Boone hustles down the first base line during the eighth inning of Houston's 2-0 loss to the Cubs on Wednesday. Boone returned to the field just five months after undergoing open heart surgery. 
Boone returns to league after heart surgery 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO Aaron Boone ran to his position at first base and that's when it really hit him. He was back, playing in a major league game for the first time since undergoing open heart surgery in late March. 
"I was fine last night and all day today. And then running out there I was a little nervous, but I got into the now of the game pretty quick," Boone said Wednesday after his Houston Astros lost to the Chicago Cubs 2-0. 
"At first, you know, you handle the ball a lot. It kinda gets you into it. Once we got going, it felt pretty good," he added 
Boone didn't appear to be rusty, even though he went 0 for 3 with two fly outs and a ground out. He made one really nice play at first base, going to the ground to knock down a hard grounder by Chicago's Jeff Baker in the second inning. He scram­bled to retrieve the ball, picked it up and flipped to pitcher Felipe Paulino for the out. 
"I didn't have time to think about it," Boone said. "So it worked <lttt. It was good to get thrown right in the fire and get some action. All in all just really good to be out there, really rewarding." 
Boone signed with the 
IN BRIEF 
Tomlinson to miss San 
Diego's preseason finale 
SAN DIEGO San Diego Chargers coach Norv Turner has confirmed what most people already guessed, that LaDainian Tomlinson will not play in Friday night's exhibition finale against San Francisco. 
Tomlinson started the first two exhibitions, bucking a tradition of having him sit out the entire pre­
season  slate  in  order  to  stay  
healthy.  He  did  sit out  last  
Saturday's loss at Atlanta.  

Most other starters will be in for 10 to 15 plays. 
It's also highly unlikely that run­ning back-return specialist Darren Sproles will play Friday. Sproles has touched the ball 16 times in the exhibition season, including rushes, receptions and returns, which Turner believes is enough for Sproles to get ready for the Sept. 14 regular-season opener at Oakland. 
Astros in the offseason, then had an operation on March 26 because of a congenital defect in his aortic valve. He has already completed a minor league rehab assignment. 
The 36-year-old Boone is an 11-year veteran who began his major league career with the Cincinnati Reds in 1997. There have also been stops with Yankees, Indians and Marlins. He played last season with the Washington Nationals. 
Astros teammates and coaches stood and applauded in the dugout when Boone -batting sev­enth -came to the plate in the second inning Wednesday. In his first at-bat since last Sept. 28, Boone flied out to left. 
"It was a good day for him to get out there. And I'm glad he got a chance to do it," Astros manager Cecil Cooper said. 
Boone was in the on-deck circle when the Astros had two on in the ninth, but didn't get to the plate when pinch-hitter Geoff Blum popped out to end the game. It crossed Boone's mind that he might have a chance to deliver a big hit in his first game back. 
One of Boone's signature moments came in 2003 when he hit a 11th-inning homer off Boston's Tim Wakefield to clinch the AL Championship Series for the New York Yankees. 

Police recover missing
Phillies World Series ring 
PHILADELPHIA -Police have recovered a Philadelphia Phillies World Series ring that went missing at the ballpark. 
A Phillies marketing executive says he removed the $15,000 ring in a restroom at Citizens Bank Park on Monday, when the team was off. He returned a half-hour later, and it was gone. 
Police Capt. Laurence Nodiff (NOH'­dif) said Wednesday surveillance tapes led them to a janitor, who took officers to the ring. Nodiff says the ring was found wrapped in a paper towel and stashed in a supply closet. 
Police say charges are expected against the janitor, who works for a subcontractor. They say he may have hidden the ring because he had sec­ond thoughts about taking it home. 
The ring has 103 diamonds and commemorates the team's 2008 world title against Tampa Bay. 
McDaniels denies Jets trade 
talk surrounding Marshall 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -Moving to quell rumors, Denver coach Josh McDaniels said Wednesday the team had not held any talks involving a trade of suspended Broncos wide receiver Brandon Marshall. 
"We're looking forward to hav­ing Brandon back on Sept. 6 and starting our preparations for Cincinnati with him," McDaniels said. "There's no discussions whatsoever taking place between the Denver Broncos and any team in the NFL regarding Brandon Marshall." 
There were reports the New York Jets would be interested in trading for him. 
McDaniels suspended Marshall for the rest of the preseason last Friday for detrimental conduct stemming for insubordinate actions during a practice. 
~­
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 3, 2009 

September 16 5:00 -9:00 pm Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
* * * * * LL 




CAREER EXPO 

How to Prepare for the Career Fair 
1. Compose a Resume that Markets Your Background and Skills 
• Visit The Career Center Monday -Friday from 1 :00 to 
4:45 pm for a 15-minute resume review or stop by "Resumes on the Run" in LaFortune (visit http://careercenter.nd.edu for dates and times) 
2. Prepare, Prepare, Prepare 
• 
Attend a 11 Prepare for the Career fair" workshop 

• 
Determine your objectives for attending 

• 
Review the list of companies attending the fair and position descriptions on Go IRISH 

• 
Visit company websites and review mission statements, annual reports. and products or services 

• 
Develop and refine networking skills 

• 
Develop your 'Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Hello, I'm ...[introduce yourself. your year and major, and interest in industry/career field) 

• 
Your company is...(demonstrate knowledge of company) 

• 
I'm interested because... (explain your interest in company) 

• 
I can...(match your skills with their needs) 




3. At the Fair 

• 
Dress in business attire and bring several copies of your resume in a portfolio 

• 
· Review the map of employer booths and take a bag for "giveaways" 

• 
Be proactive by approaching employers 

• 
Speak with both young alums and experienced representatives 

• 
Demonstrate confidence and enthusiasm in delivering your 'Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Ask the representative how to sign up for an interview (i.e. "After reviewing your company information and the position, I am interested in speaking with you further. How can I obtain a slot on your interview schedule at The Career Center?") 

• 
Obtain the representative's business card 


4. Following the Fair 
• 
Send an email thank-you to the recruiters with companies of interest within 3 days of the fair 

• 
If you obtain an interview: 

• 
Prepare by researching the company, industry. competitors. and the job or internship description on Go IRISH 

• 
Review The Career Center's Interview Guide and practice sample interview questions 

• 
View The Career Center's interview preparation workshop video on the home page of the website: http://careercenter.nd.edu 




Let u.s "-elf, ViSt-f u.s trxJ.c..jl 
Prepare for Fall Career Fair Workshops 
A&L Majors: Monday, September 7, 6:00pm in G-20 Flanner Thursday. September 10. 6:00p.m. in G-20 Flanner 
Business Majors: Monday, September 7, 7:00 pm in 114 Flanner 
Engineering Majors: Tuesday, September 8, 6:00pm in 117 DeBartolo Wednesday, September 9, 5:00pm in 118 DeBartolo 
Science Majors: Monday, September 7, 6:00pm in 310 Jordan Wednesday, September 9, 5:00pm in 118 DeBartolo 
Sophomores: Tuesday, September 8, 5:00 pm in 114 Flanner 
All Majors: Sunday, September 6. 6:00pm in 114 Flenner 


Utilize Go IRISH to Find Out More About the Companies, Industries, and Positions 
To view all companies attending Fall Career Expo: 
1. 
Login to Go IRISH 

2. 
Click on Events Tab 

3. 
Click on Notre Dome 2009 Fall Career Fairs to view participating employers and general posting information 


To view job postlngs: 
1. 
Login to Go IRISH 

2. 
Click on "Jobs/lntemships" and select Go IRISH Jobs 

3. 
In the "Keywords" search. enter FCE09. For engineering opportunities, search EID09. 



Conduct Company and Industry Research 
The Vault Online Career Library https:/ /careercenter2.nd.edu/llbrary 
• Contains insider company information. advice, and career, industry, and employer guides and articles. 
CareerShlft https:/ /careercenter2.nd.edu/library 
• Locate in-depth company information and contacts. 
Company Websltes 
• Review mission statements. annual reports. and products or services 

The Career ('.enter 
careercenter.nd.edu I (574) 631-5200 I ndcps@nd.edu 

Thursday, September 3, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 


NFL 

Childress to sit Favre against Dallas 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. -Brett Favre's non-traditional arrival in Minnesota is not stopping Vikings coach Brad Childress from taking a traditional approach to the team's presea­son finale against Dallas. 
The 39-year-old quarterback will not play against the Cowboys on Friday night. 
"I don't see the upside," Childress said on Wednesday. 
Most teams rest their marquee starters in the final game of the preseason to avoid the risk of injury with the regular season a week away. 
What makes this situation unique, however, is Favre's recent arrival in Minnesota. 
It's been a whirlwind for Favre ever since he arrived to a hero's welcome just 16 days ago. A hel­icopter followed him from a Twin Cities airport to the team's headquarters in Eden Prairie, where more than 100 fans swarmed Childress's SUV as it pulled into the parking lot. 
Three days later, Favre was in uniform and looking every bit as rusty as could be expected. He went 1 for 4 for 4 yards in two series against the Kansas City Chiefs, but looked much more comfortable on Monday night in Houston. 
Favre completed 13 of 18 passes for 142 yards and a touchdown while playing into the third quarter of a 17-10 win 
NFL 

Cowboys NFL's richest team 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -How 'bout them Cowboys? They're No. 1 in something even before the NFL season begins: total value. 
The Cowboys are worth $1.65 billion, the most of any U.S.-based sports franchise, according to Forbes maga­zine's annual rankings. Only Manchester United of the English Premier League is worth more worldwide, $1.87 billion. 
FREE Admission for All NO. HCC & SMC Students 
valid 101 

at Houston. 
"I thought he made a nice jump from Week 1 to Week 2 and showed he's got a good understanding of what we're doing," Childress said. 
Favre ran a similar offense for 16 seasons in Green Bay and has had no trouble getting up to speed with the Vikings' play­book. The biggest thing he has to work on is chemistry with his receivers, learning their tenden­cies and how each one puts his own variation on the routes that are run. 
The biggest strides were shown on Minnesota's final drive of the first half against the Texans. Favre completed the final six passes of the drive, moving the Vikings 7 4 yards in nine plays, including a 28-yard touchdown pass to Chester Taylor. 
"I think we can be productive, but we've got to get it together pretty quickly," Favre said after the game Monday night. 
The Vikings open the regular season on Sept. 13 at Cleveland. So Favre and the rest of his offensive starters will have an entire week of practice to fine­tune things before the football start for real. 
"We're at a pretty good spot right now, but he's only been here two weeks," receiver Sidney Rice said. "We still have a lot of things we can work on together. We're going to contin­ue to work on those things 
The Cowboys lead the rank­ings for the third straight year and are worth $100 million more than the runner-up Washington Redskins. New England is third at $1.361 bil­lion, followed by the New York Giants ($1.183 billion) and Jets ($1.170 billion). 
In all, 19 teams are worth at least $1 billion, with the biggest gainer in Forbes' rank­ings the Patriots, Chargers, Bills and Buccaneers, each at 3 percent. 
Oakland has the least value, together." 
Favre still has not played a game with top receiver Bernard Berrian, who missed the last two games with a hamstring injury. 
He is spending extra time looking at practice tape and has stayed late at practice on occa­sion to throw to his receivers as they try to find the timing need­ed to keep the chains moving. 
"I feel like we're definitely jelling," said running back Adrian Peterson, who had a 75­yard touchdown run on the first play from scrimmage against Houston. "I feel like we're there, but there's always room to improve. 
"We've still got some polish­ing. Just shine it up and buff it up a little bit and I think we'll be OK." 
For now, Favre and most of the rest of the starters will have to apply the final coat of wax in practice. Childress isn't willing to risk a major injury, and he knows firsthand that can hap­pen. 
Childress was an assistant in Philadelphia in 2001 when head coach Andy Reid decided to play his starters at the beginning of the exhibition finale against the New York Jets. Childress said that center Bubba Miller broke his leg on the last play of the opening drive. 
"Just that one more play, that one more series," Childress said. "It's hard enough to lose them on regular football Sundays." 
not even reaching half of Dallas' worth. The Raiders are worth $797 million, down 7 percent from the previous year. 
Eight teams saw their value decline in this year's rankings, and six had no change. Along with the Raiders, who had the biggest drop, Detroit, which comes off the first 0-16 season in NFL history, fell 6 percent; Indianapolis went down 5 per­cent; Miami dropped 3 per­cent; Seattle and St. Louis each fell 2 percent. 

NFL 


Coach says Peterson is the NFL' s best RB 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. ­In the debate over who is the best running back in the NFL, Vikings coach Brad Childress is agreeing with Jim Brown, not LaDainian Tomlinson. 
Childress came to Adrian Peterson's defense Wednesday after Tomlinson took a few shots at Peterson in a recent Los Angeles Times story. 
When asked about it at practice Wednesday, an unusually emphatic Childress said he's seen Peterson improve "by leaps and bounds" in all phases of the game since he entered the league in 2007. 
"LaDainian is a hell of a back and he's entitled to his opinion," Childress said. ''I'm going to tell you, my guy is the best football play­er in the National Football League and he's the best running back in the National Football League, and I believe that." 
Peterson is the reigning NFL rushing champion and also holds the single-game record for yards rushing 
(296) set against Tomlinson's Chargers at the Metrodome in 2007. He has rushed for 3,101 yards in his first two seasons, leading many to call him the best running back in the game. 
For years, Tomlinson has worn that crown. 
"Jim Brown was telling Peterson he's the best run­ner he'd seen in a long time," Tomlinson told The Times. "I was sitting there reading it thinking, 'Wow.' 
"The difference with me is you can put me out on that field and there will be noth­ing I can't do. I won't have to come off the field. Adrian has to come off sometimes on third down. Running routes, he's still not there yet. Great downhill runner, powerful, fast, all that stuff. ... But anything on that field you want me to do -throw it, block -I can do it. That's what I pride myself on is not having any weaknesses. And 
that's what makes me the best back." 
LT rushed for 1,815 yards and scored 31 touchdowns in 2006, but has been slowed slightly by injuries the last two seasons. He gained a career-low 1,110 yards rushing last season, but still managed to catch 52 passes. 
Tomlinson's accomplish­ments in the passing game certainly set him apart. He caught 100 passes in 2003 and has never caught fewer than 51 in a season. 
Peterson has 40 catches in his first two seasons com­bined. He knows he has to be better in that area and has worked diligently to be a more reliable receiver and blocker. 
"I just think he keeps get­ting better and better and better and better," Childress said. "I think he's come leaps and bounds from the first day in pass protection." 
When it comes to running, though, Peterson might have the edge right now as he enters his prime. He rushed for 1,760 yards last season and took the first handoff of the preseason game against Houston on Monday night for a 75-yard touchdown. 
Tomlinson turned 30 in June, an ominous bench­mark for running backs that usually signifies the begin­ning of the downside of their careers. 
Both are from Texas, and Peterson simply shrugged off Tomlinson's criticism. 
"It really doesn't matter," Peterson said. "But it's Jim Brown, so I can see why it would definitely touch a nerve. 
"The only thing I try to do is try to be the best, most complete player that I can be. And that means during the offseason if there's things that I can improve on, that make my game better, that will help the team, then those are things that I do. So, that's what I'm going to continue to focus on and continue to do and I'll let everyone else voice their opinion." 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 3, 2009 
NHL 

Coyotes to begin season in Arizona 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Canadian billion­aire James Balsillie has pro­posed having the Phoenix Coyotes begin the season in Arizona, then move to Hamilton, Ontario, as quickly as possible. 
Balsillie's attorney, Jeff Keffier, made the suggestion Wednesday after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Redfield T. Baum said it was "reasonably probable" that he could not resolve the many out­standing issues in the messy Coyotes fight by a Sept. 14 dead­line set by the Canadian. 
The statements came during a hearing on whether the judge should overrule the NHL board of governors' 26-0 vote rejecting Balsillie as a potential owner and clear the way to move the franchise to Hamilton. 
"We may have to move during the season," Keffier said. 
After the hearing, NHL com­missioner Gary Bettman said that proposals by Balsillie's com­pany, PSE, to move the team either before or during the com­ing season "shows a lack of respect for the game." 
The NHL vehemently opposes Balsillie's plan to buy the team and wants the judge to rule that the Coyotes will play the coming season in Arizona regardless of the outcome of the bankruptcy case. Such a ruling would kill Balsillie's bid, his attorney said. 
The league, which has made its own bid, says moving the team at this late date across the continent to Hamilton would cre­ate enormous difficulty for the other teams and players, not to mention everyone involved with the Phoenix franchise. Each day of uncertainty does more dam­age to the franchise, NI-IL attor­neys said. 
"I think the arguments by PSE (the company Balsillie formed to pursue the Coyotes) on moving the club treats rather frivolously the issues that all sports leagues have," Bettman said. "I think it disrespects the game and it dis­respects the players and what they have to go through night in and night out to do the great things they do on the ice." 
Speaking outside the court­house after the day-long hear­ing, Bettman said, "Of all the things that were argued, and they were important, that one strikes a chord that showed a lack of respect for the game." 
The first preseason game is Sept. 15. The Coyotes open the regular season Oct. 3 at Los Angeles. 
For the frrst time since Coyotes owner Jerry Moyes took the team into bankruptcy, Balsillie was in the courtroom. 
Just when a ruling will come on any of the issues will come is unknown. The judge may well wait until the Sept. 10 auction. 
"Whatever he rules, whenever he rules it I'm going to respect his ruling," Balsillie said. "That being said, obviously I still think that our bid is by far the best for creditors, for fans and for the long-term viability of the team. All I wanted from the beginning was a chance for a level playing field, a court-supervised auction where we can participate." 
Thomas Salerno, attorney for the debtors headed by Moyes, said the team would lose "$30­$40-$50 million" if it plays the entire season in Glendale, money lost to the team's creditors. 
Bettman defended the huge financial commitment the NHL is willing to make and vowed a court fight to the finish. 
"There's nothing more impor­tant to any sports league than who owns its franchises, where its franchises are located and the application and enforceabili­ty of its rules and procedures," he said, "and if you're in this business you've got to do what­ever it takes to enforce your rules in that regard." 
Keffler told the judge that Balsillie was willing to play a season in Glendale if the NHL would split the anticipated loss­es, not tie up the case in appeals and act on the request to relo­cate the franchise to Hamilton. 
"It's not a suggestion that has much appeal to us," Bettman said. 
Baum succinctly summed up the issue before him regarding Balsillie and his representatives. 
"Either they have the ability to force themselves into the league, in a simple sense, or they don't," the judge said. "If they don't, then game over." 
He noted that a ruling Balsillie's favor would be unprecedented. 
Keffler argued that the NHL rejection of Balsillie was a "thin pretext" conjured up by lawyers when the league's real concern is a potential legal battle with the Toronto Maple Leafs. 
The contention is largely based on a November 2006 letter from the Maple Leafs' counsel that cites the franchise's position that any relocation of a franchise must be approved by a unani­mous vote. 
Bettman says he has made it clear to all owners that reloca­tion would be decided by a majority vote. 
League attorney Shep Goldfein called the allegations "just made up" and "something from 'The Twilight Zone."' 
The judge put aside for now assertions by Balsillie's attorneys that the NHL had a serious con­flict of interest because it was a bidder. The league filed a $140 million offer to buy the team last week when a group headed by Jerry Reinsdorf pulled out. 
On Wednesday, the NHL said it had changed its offer and, if it is awarded the team, the league will give any net profit on the resale of the club to the credi­tors. The initial bid offered 20 percent of the profit. However, the league has said in court doc­uments that a net profit on the sale is unlikely. 
Balsillie's attorney, Susan Freeman, said the NHL was con­sidering making a bid at the time of the league vote against the Canadian as an owner. That put the league owners in a posi­tion of rejecting a competitive bid. 
As if the nearly 900 documents filed in the case weren't enough for him to read, Baum asked for the full transcripts of all deposi­tions in the case. Each of those is 250 to 300 pages long. 
Balsillie is offering $212.5 mil­lion, contingent on immediately moving the franchise to Hamilton. Under that bid, Moyes would get $104 million of the $300 million he says he loaned the Coyotes. 
MLB 


Young sidelined for tvvo vveeks 
Associated Press 

AHLINGTON, Texas Michael Young thought his season was over whfln he heard a pop in his hamstring while running down the base­line. 
So the bad news for the playoff-chasing Texas Hangers that their All-Star third base­man will be out at least two weeks could have been much worse. 
"The second you hear a pop in your hamstring, you think something's wrong and it's going to more than a month recovery time," Young said Wednesday. "So for them to tell me there's a good chance I'll be available the last two weeks, that's great news to me. Tha.!'s all I'm going to focus on. 
An MHI confirmed his injury sustained running out a grounder Tuesday night was a strained left hamstring, not something much worse. He also had a blood platelet injection designed to acceler­ate the healing process. 
Still, the loss of Young for any time is a significant blow for a Texas team in the hunt for its first playoff appearance in 10 years. The Hangers face an unprecedented extended stretch without their longest­tenured player, in his ninth season. 
"There's no way to replace Michael. lie's the leader," Marlon Byrd said. "We've got to hold down the fort until he comes back.... At this time of the year, the way he's swing­ing it, the way he's been car­rying us, you can't even put into words." 
Since becoming a full-time player in 2002, Young has never missed more than two consecutive starts. He even managed to maintain that streak last season, playing 155 games after breaking a finger on each hand and sus­taining a groin strain. 
"His hitting, defense, lead­ership, work ethic. He's o.ne guy who shows up at the ball­park who everybody feeds off' of'," Rangers manager Ron Washington said. "But does it give us an excuse to have a lull? No. We're not going to have a lull." 
The Rangers went into Wednesday night's series finale against Toronto trailing AL wild-card leader Boston by 3 1/2 games and the AL West­leading Los Angeles Angels by 4 1/2 games. Texas made its last playoff appearance in 1999 after winning its only three division titles in a four­year span. 
Young was sixth in the American League with a .322 batting average. His 48 multi­hit games ranked eighth, and he had hit in 18 consecutive games for the longest active streak in the majors before going 0 for 2 with two walks in the first game of a double­header Tuesday against the Blue Jays. 
Young got hurt in the sec­ond game, pulling up after crossing first base for the final out of the third inning. 
"The boys can kind of keep the ship afloat for a while, and I'll be ready to go to work those last couple of weeks," Young said. "I've been here for nine years and this is a golden opportunity, so it's dis­appointing to miss these games. At the same time, when I'm doing my rehab, I'm going to focus on the fact that I'm going back with some­thing to play for." 
Chris Davis was in the start­ing lineup at third base Wednesday night, and Hank Blalock was at first base. Davis had started eight of his nine games at first since being recalled from Triple-A Oklahoma City, where he played mostly third base. Davis had started 70 games at first for the Rangers earlier this season before being sent down. 
Omar Vizquel, the 11-time Gold Glove shortstop who is a backup infielder for Texas, or Esteban German could also play third. Vizquel made a diving backhanded stab on one play, then threw the bat­ter out from his knee after replacing Young at third Tuesday night. 
"lie's the engine of this team. He's the one to get everything going," Vizquel said. "We're really going to miss him now, especially this last month when every game is important. ... It's really sad to see one of the best hitters going down for a little bit." 
Young, a five-time All-Star shortstop before moving to third base this season, said he was sore from the injection but would be aggressive with his rehabilitation. While there will be no baseball activity right away, he will take on a different leadership role. 
"Just break out my pom­poms and be a cheerleader," Young said. ''I'm not worried at all about the baseball aspect of hitting and throw­ing. That stuff will come back to me in a day." 

Josh Dorfman 
"The Lazy Environmentalist" 
Advice and reviews oftoday smost innovative eco~friendly products and services 
Friday, September 4, 2009 I 0:15am-11:30am McKenna Hall Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Mendoza College ofBusiness 
Josh Dorfman, is an environmental author, media personality and entrepreneur who focuses on green innovations that can improve our lives. Dorfman is the host of The Lazy Environmentalist original tele­vision series on the Sundance Channel, and the author of The Lazy Environmentalist: Your Guide To Easy, Stylish, Green Living and The Lazy Environmentalist on a Budget. Save Money. Save Time. ijJ N{)T R E 5DAYJ£ 
Save The Planet. 

Mendoza College of Business 
For information contact (574) 631-3277 • Jean.Meade@nd.edu 
r-----------------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 3, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ATP 
Serena rolls into 



next round at Open 
ZZ Top Dan Tepfer 
. Blues/Rock Concert Solo Piano Concert with Sulentic Brothers at Palais Royale Wednesday, Sept 9 Sunday, Sept 13 
South Bend Symphony Concert 

"Triumphant Beginnings" 
Saturday, Sept. 26 
Robin Williams Comedian National Tour Thursday, Oct. 1 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK Serena Williams offered a new, tongue­in-cheek explanation for why she plays so much better at Grand Slam tournaments than other events. 
"Maybe it pays more," she said with a smile. "I guess I'm trying to pay off my mortgage." 
Defending champion Williams joined her sister in the U.S. Open's third round with a domi­nating victory Wednesday night, playing pretty close to perfect while beating 51st-ranked Melinda Czink of Hungary 6-1, 6-1 in less than an hour. 
Williams is seeking her fourth 
U.S. Open championship and 12th Grand Slam singles title overall. She's won three of the 
past four major tournaments ­but she hasn't won a single non­
UP£()minlt 'h()W§ major tournament in that span. The American is trying to become the first woman to win consecutive titles at Flushing Meadows since her older sister Venus in 2000-01. 
The siblings could play each other in the semifinals. Venus Williams wore heavy bandages above and below her left knee while winning earlier Wednesday, eliminating Bethanie Mattek-Sands of the United States 6-4, 6-2. 
The Williamses are scheduled to team up Thursday in the first 

round of doubles, taking on Julie Goerges and Arantxa Parra Santonja. Serena said she hadn't had a chance to speak to Venus about whether they would stay in the doubles event but figured they would play. 
The younger Williams played Czink at a hard-court tourna­ment in California in July, and things were much more competi­tive until Williams eventually prevailed 6-3, 7-6 (7). 
Why was Wednesday's encounter so different? 
"I definitely made adjust­ments," Williams said. "I knew her game better today." 
Truth be told, Czink simply couldn't handle Williams' power, like a baseball hitter whose swing is too slow to get around on a fastball and keeps fouling off pitches. 
That was illustrated on consec­utive points early in the second set: First, one ball flew wildly off Czink's racket and soared wide and high, so off-track and so hard that it smacked the score­keeping gizmo off the chair umpire's stand. Next, another ball went directly sideways, nearly into the noggin of a line judge. 
Williams finished with an impressive ratio of 25 winners to only nine unforced errors. 
About the only glitch for Williams came midway through the first set, when she thought she had pounded an ace. Instead, the serve was waved off by a line judge, who called a foot-fault. 
Williams turned and glared, setting her hands on her hips. She just stood there with a straight face for a few seconds, staring down the oflicial. When play resumed, Williams pushed a forehand into the net, then again sent a serious look in his direc­tion. 
And on the following point, Williams smacked an ace at 115 mph and looked over once more, as though to say, "Was my foot in the right place that time?!" 
"I was kind of frustrated because I hit a great serve, best serve I hit in months. Yeah, I was just like, 'Ugh!"' Williams said. 
Asked about the staredown, she said: 'They do play that song, 'Straight out of Compton' when I walk out." 
NHL 
Luongo signs 12-yr 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
extension with Canucks 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) 
Associated Press 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550 or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@ncLedu 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia Goaltender
Office of Campus Ministry 

Roberto Luongo chose to finish 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources) 
his career in Vancouver 
because he believes the
in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support 
Canucks can win a Stanley Cup. The 12-year, $64-million con­tract extension he signed on 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 

Wednesday may help. 
(Individual counseling) 

Luongo's new contract comes 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
with an annual salary cap hit of 
just $5.33-million, which is 
down from the $6.75-million
Visit our web site at 
average of his current four­year, $27 -million deal that
corecouncil. nd .edu 
expires at the end of the upcoming season. 
,.,., .. :; ...........:t..,..... ·.·. ... . ..................................... ···w··.-...;.,....· ......... ,.!!!!..bWk ...®!.i.J ..JL~..,...,,,..J:&::t... 
"I want to win the Stanley 

Cup," Luongo said on a confer­ence call. "That's why I play. We had to do something that made sense for both me and the team, and I think that's what we accomplished by doing a deal where the money is a bit more front-loaded." 
Luongo's deal includes a no-trade clause, keeping the 30­year-old Canucks captain in Vancouver until the 2021-22 season. 
The new deal pays Luongo $1 0-million in 2010-11, but just $1 million in each of the final two seasons to give the Canucks more flexibility under the NHL salary cap. 
"For me it was more about my love for the game," Luongo said. "I just want to play as long as I can. I don't see what's wrong with that." 
He also plans to play for Canada at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics. 
"Roberto Luongo is the leader of our hockey team; he is in the pr.ime of his playing career and has a tremendous desire to make the Canucks a champi­onship team," general manager Mike Gillis said in a statement. "His leadership, competitive­ness and character are what this team will represent for many years to come." 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 3, 2009 
MLB 



Penny's debut a success as Giants beat Phils 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -After a sensational and surprising debut with San Francisco, Brad Penny kept his eyes on the Red Sox game on TV as he dressed. 
"Those are my buddies over there," he said. "I love all those guys." 
Penny would still be with Boston if he pitched like he did agai.nst Philadelphia on Wednesday night. He threw five-hit ball over eight shutout innings in his first start with the Giants, leading the NL wild-card contenders to a 4-0 win over the Phillies. 
"It's more than we expected, but I just think this guy was on a mission tonight and it showed," Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. 
Penny (1-0) was back in his old All-Star form in his first out­ing since he was released last week by Boston. Penny went 7-8 with a 5.61 ERA this season­including 1-6 in his last 11 starts. Penny could be a huge boost to San Francisco's NL wild-card push if he can pitch like this the rest of September." 
"Some things are hard to explain," Bochy said of Penny's Boston collapse, "and that's one of them." 
Penny's lone jam came in the fifth inning when the first two batters reached base. He got All-Star Raul Ibanez to fly out, and escaped the inning without any further damage. 
Ibanez, whose torrid flrst half got him voted an NL All-Star starter, continued his dreadful second-half slide. He went 0 for 3 and has only 10 hits in his last 75 at-bats. He hit 10 homers in May. 
Still, no one in the World Series champion Phillies lineup did much of anything against a suddenly-effective Penny. 
The Red Sox might be nipping at the Yankees in the AL East if the righty pitched like this the last two months. It was Penny's longest outing in 28 starts this season and he nearly tossed his first complete game in three years. 
"This is what you put a uni­form on for, to get into the play­offs and play in the World Series,' Penny said. 
Penny was clocked at 97 mph in the flrst inning and his fast­ball remained in the mid-90s over 102 pitches for his first win since July 24. 
Penny said he felt no nerves as he took the mound for the first time since Aug. 21. His explanations for his perform­ances in Boston was an odd one. 
"A lot of those foul balls to first base that they catch for outs are foul balls in Fenway because there's no foul territo­ry,'' Penny said. "It's an extend­ed at-bat, and who knows what could happen? Plus it was the Yankees. There's not a lineup better than the Yankees in base­ball." 
Juan Uribe and Aaron Rowand each homered for the Giants, who won their 73rd game surpassing last season's total. The Giants trailed Colorado by 1 game in the wild­card race entering Wednesday night. 
Tampa Bay 8, Boston 5 
Pat Burrell snapped an eighth-inning tie with a RBI sin­gle and Evan Longoria followed with a two-run homer Wednesday night to help Tampa Bay avoid falling farther back in the AL playoff race with a victo­ry over Boston. 
A night after playing poorly in the opener of a series crucial to their hopes of returning to the postseason, the defending AL champions rebounded with a solid effort to nudge back within five games of the wild card­leading Red Sox. 
J.P. Howell (7-4) pitched one inning to earn the victory, despite allowing Boston to tie the game 5-all in the eighth on his wild pitch with the bases loaded. Dan Wheeler got the final two outs for his second save. 

Carlos Pena led off the bottom of the eighth with a double off Hamon Hamirez (7 -4), then scored on Burrell's single to right-center. Longoria hit his 26th homer -eighth against Boston this season -on reliev­er Manny Delcarmen 's first pitch. 
Burrell and Carl Crawford hit solo homers off Red Sox ace Josh Beckett, who gave up flve runs and seven hits while strik­ing out nine in six innings. The Rays led 5-1 before the Red Sox scored twice in the fourth and once in the seventh to get back in the game. 

NFL 

Young arrested after traffic stop 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -New Orleans Saints safety Usama Young's failure to appear in court for parking in a handi­cap spot led to his arrest this week after he was stopped for speeding. 
Harahan Police Chief Peter Dale said officers initially pulled Young over in subur­ban and intended to give him a ticket, but had to arrest him because records turned up an outstanding violation in Jefferson Parish. Sheriff's spokesman Col. John Fortunato confirmed that Young had failed to appear at a court date. 
Young and his attorney, Donald "Chick" Foret, said the other citation came last year when the player wa·s parked illegally at a cell phone store. 
"I wanted to say I sincerely apologize for doing what I did. There's no excuse for it," Young said in a phone inter­view. "I ran into the AT&T store for a two-to three-
minute stop to get a phone charger, and came back out and an officer was writing me a ticket. Immediately, I knew I was wrong." 
Young said he also wanted to apologize specifically "to all people with disabilities or the elderly who need handi­capped parking spots. I was­n't acting professionally and you can bet that I won't do anything like that again." 
Young said he forgot to pay the parking ticket and forgot about the court date, in part because he had a lot going on between the end of the 2008 NFL season and his return to Kent State University in Ohio to finish work on his degree in educa­tion. 
Young was on his way home when he was pulled over by Harahan police around 3:14a.m. on Monday. 
Dale said Young was clocked at 55 miles per hour in a 40 mph zone and drove about a mile before pulling over. 
"He wasn't belligerent. He didn't give officers any trou­ble," Dale said. 
Still, the officers cited Young with reckless driving and fleeing police, then arrested him. He was trans­ferred to the Jefferson Parish jail in Gretna and released on $1,500 bond soon after, Foret said. 
Saints spokesman Greg Bensel said the team was aware of Young's arrest. 
"We are working with him, our legal counsel and we are supporting Usama in this matter," Bensel said. 
Young, 24, was a standout at Kent State and a third­round draft pick in 2007. He spent his first two seasons as a reserve cornerback and special teams player. 
This season, he switched to free safety and has impressed coaches during training camp while compet­ing with veteran Darren Sharper for the starting job. Sharper is expected to start, but coaches have said Young is making a strong case for playing time. 

Jason Bay, David Ortiz, J.D. Drew and Victor Martinez drove in runs off Rays starter Matt Garza, who allowed four runs and six hits in 6 2/3 innings but was unable to get his flrst win since July 24 -a stretch of seven starts. 
Boston pulled even in the eighth, loading the bases on three walks before scoring on Howell's wild pitch. The Hed Sox were unable to get the oth­ers home, though, and finished 3-for-16 with runners in scoring position. 
Beckett has not pitched well the past month, allowing 14 homers over his last flve starts after giving up 10 in his flrst 22 starts of the season. During that stretch he's 1-1 and yielded 27 runs overall in 31 1-3 innings. 
Crawford homered in the flrst and Burrell went deep in the second, when Tampa Bay also scored on Akinori Iwamura's RBI single and B.J. Upton's sac­rifice bunt, which first baseman Victor Martinez fielded and threw to the plate too late to keep Gregg Zaun from scoring from third. 
Zaun's RBI double made it 5-1 in the third. 
Boston scored on Bay's RBI triple in the second, then added two more in the fourth on Drew's run-scoring single and Ortiz's RBI grounder. The Red Sox trimmed their deficit to 5-4 when Martinez singled with two outs in the seventh to finish Garza. 
WNBA 

Phoenix rebounds with win vs. Fever 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-The Phoenix Mercury quickly got over their tough loss at Detroit the previous night. 
Cappie Pondexter scored 25 points and the Mercury shot nearly 60 percent from the floor in a 106 90 victory over the Indiana Fever on Wednesday night in a matchup of first-place teams. 
"We were focusing on ourselves, not losing two in a row," Pondexter said. "It was a good test for us, knowing Indiana has the best record in the WNBA." 
Phoenix was coming off' a 101-99 defeat against the surging defend­ing champion Shock on Tuesday night. 
DeWanna Bonner scored 15 points, Diana Taurasi had 14 and Temeka Johnson 13 as the Mercury (21-10) shot 41 for 70 from the field (59 percent), including 10 for 18 on 3-pointers. Western Conference­leading Phoenix won for just the fifth time in its last nine games and moved 1 1/2 games ahead of sec­ond-place Seattle. 
"We did some good things early tonight," Taurasi said. "It is difficult to put up 100 points against a half­court defense like Indiana. ... We have to give credit to our big players doing a good job crashing the boards." 
Tamika Catchings had 27 points and a season-high 12 rebounds for the East-leading Fever (20-9), losers of four of their last five. Tammy Sutton-Brown scored 19 points, rookie Briann January had 14 and Ebony Hoffinan 11. 
"We were soft defensively early with their 3," Fever coach Lin Dunn said. "To stay with this team we need to hit the open shots and we didn't. We need to be more focused. 1\vo or three of our players were not scoring, plus missing Katie Douglas hurt us. We allowed Phoenix to penetrate too much. We hurt ourselves with some of our decisions." 
Thursday, September 3, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
COME TO LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER BETWEEN 9PM -ltPM TONIGHT. SAMPLE SBARRO PIZZA, BK CHICKEN TENDERS AND ICE CREAM TREATS WHILE SUPPLIES LAST. SUB'S ACOUSTICAFE WILL BE IN THE BASEMENT FROM IOPM UNTIL MIDNIGHT. PICK UP ASCAVENGER HUNT CARD FROM ONE OF OUR STAFF. 
YOU CAN'T MISS THEM, THEY'LL BE IN GREEN SHIRTS! VISIT EVERY FLOOR AND CHECK OUT ALL THAT THE STUDENT CENTER HAS TO OFFER. 
VARIOUS OFFICES AND BUSINESSES WILL STAMP YOUR CARD. DROP OFF YOUR COMPLETED SCAVENGER HUNT CARD IN THE BALLROOM ON THE aND FLOOR. WE'LL BE DRAWING CARDS FROM STUDENTS WHO COMPLETED THE SCAVENGER HUNT 
TO PARTICIAPTE IN ANUMBER OF GAME SHOWS TO WIN THE PRIZES LISTED BELOW. GAMES WILL BE HELD EVERY IS MINUTES STARTING AT 9:30. 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 3, 2009 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
hasn't weakened the bond between teammates. 
"We're a close knit group," said McCarthy, a senior cap­tain. "No one's looking out for themselves. If that means they're not starting 
one  day,  that's  what  it  
means  and they're here  to  
help the team."  

The return of corner Darrin Walls, who has made 13 career starts, gives Notre Dame an extra starting-cal­iber player opposite listed starters Robert Blanton and Raeshon McNeil. In fact, Irish coach Charlie Weis said Walls is "right there," in terms of being a starter after missing last season. 
"I wouldn't read too much into Raeshon being ahead of Darrin," Weis said. "I think you'll see them both on the field. It's just that Darrin was limited [by injury) real­ly for a week and a half and Raeshon was getting all those reps and Darrin was hardly getting any." 
Though there were open competitions for many start­ing jobs throughout Irish camp, none featured more proven players than the three-way battle for the two starting corner spots. But Walls echoed McCarthy's statement in saying that the healthy competition only made the team stronger. 
"For the most part we look at each other as brothers, we look out for each other, and we know we have a lot of good guys back there that can play," Walls said. "We just push each other every day and try to get each other better. We know the coaches are going to make the best decisions." 
In terms of how the Irish 


Tennis 
continued from page 24 
when pulled wide, he recognizes when to come in, and his serve is much improved. His key will be to maintain his poise in match play. Keeton is a terrific ball striker. He has added more coil to his fore­hand, allowing him to generate pace without risk, become much more proficient at the net, and is beginning to be able to counter on the backhand side with some slice." 
The Irish are also looking for their freshmen to make solid con­tributions and compete for spots in the lower part of the lineup. 
"Our freshmen are quite good," 

Stadiu01 
continued from page 24 
Such added comforts stem from the lead donations of for­mer men's soccer players Tom Crotty, class of 1980, and Rob Snyder, class of 1984. 
Alumni Stadium already has permanent seating for nearly 2,500 fans, and with standing room, the stadium can hold 3,000 people. Waldrum said the architects presented an option for a bigger stadium, but the decision to build conservatively was an easy one. 
"We had to decide if we make it bigger and risk having empty seats or do we build it to what will line up Saturday, sever­al defensive backs will likely see time against Nevada's vaunted pistol attack. Corners Gary Gray and Jamoris Slaughter will likely work their way into the rotation. 

But McCarthy and Smith will surely be called upon to help in run support, as Wolfpack quarterback Colin Kaepernick and running backs Vai Taua and Luke Lippincott will each be look­ing to run downhill through the Irish defense. 
Notre Dame's safeties should be up for the task, however, as McCarthy was the team's leading tackler a year ago, and Smith is a converted linebacker. 
Bayliss said. "Bias Moros has already reached the quarterfinal of one of the US Futures, quite an accomplishment for an entering freshman. Michael Moore had a very strong showing at the US Junior Nationals. Spencer Talmadge returned from playing and training in the Phillipines dur­ing July. Each has a chance to contribute as a freshman. We will find out pretty quickly where they stand, as we open with the Illini Invitational in mid-September." 
The Irish will look to improve their doubles lineup as well as find answers at the top of their lineup this fall before beginning dual matches in the spring. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
would be full," Waldrum said. "We really like that atmosphere to be full. You don't want to build it so big that it looks half empty. That won't create the atmosphere." 
The team has already seen the atmosphere it waits to expe­rience. The women's soccer team attended the men's soccer game Tuesday night, a 5-0 vic­tory over No. 21 Michigan. 
"We couldn't wait to see it under the lights," Waldrum said. "It is just going to be a fan­tastic stadium." 
Kickoff for Friday night's matchup with North Carolina is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1 @nd.edu 
McCarthy made 110 stops last season, including a team-high 64 solo. He also had 3.5 tackles for loss and made two interceptions. 
Smith had 57 tackles (39 solo) and 8.5 tackles for loss, including 3.5 sacks, which tied for the team lead. He figures to be a run­stopping threat as he moves further away from the line of scrimmage but will still have the flexibility to make big plays to stop the ground game. 
Blanton and McNeil each had two interceptions last season, and McNeil led the Irish with 11 pass breakups. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Billboard 
continued from page 24 
'lbe sign, which will apparently be up for 12 weeks, reads "Best wishes to Charlie Weis in the fifth year of his college coaching intern­ship -linebackerAlumni." And for a day or so, people wondered who paid for it, until you finally manned up. 
But, after all, it really was you, aeeording to the South Bend Tribune. Apparently you lettered in football in '67 ... congratulations, I guess. I Googled your name and couldn't find anything about your career. Apparently while on the practice field you missed some real-life lessons along the way. 
I tried thinking for a long while to try and imagine what you really thought you could accomplish with a billboard. I'm not by any means sold on Charlie Weis as head coach either, but really, why wa<rte the money? They invented Twitter for random spewing like this. 
It's not like you're the first one to say anything like this or are chang­ing anyone's mind. The call'> fbr Wcis' head have been going strong sinee 2007, and while the eolors are nice and all, the billboard isn't swaying anyone who still supports the coach at this point. 
Apparently there are also around 50 football players whose sentiments you also represent. They may agree with your disap­pointment regarding Charlie Weis's pcrformanee, but they all really thought a billboard was a good idea? Those 50 players sound a lot like the millions of dollars the anti­Obama campaign so scientifically counted last spring that would no longer be donated (personally, I withheld $500,000). 
I think those other players, though, probably realized that nothing good will come out of this billboard. It's created negative pub­lieity for the program on SportsCenter and every media out­let, and will welcome 12 weeks of recruits and their families who visit South Bend. 
You see, most alumni would realize that the billboard isn't changing anything-not public opinion,notanyfans,notJohn Jenkins or Jack Swarbrick, and I can tell you Charlie Weis could care less. 
As a former player and student, you should know there's much bet­ter and probably more influential ways to express your feelings. Maybe write a petition with your players or a letter or ... anything else really, besides some useless publicity stunt. 
And the money you've wasted is gone.lnstead of trying to get pub­licity and draw attention to your aimless "eause," that money could've been used for so mueh better to support the university you supposedly "still eare about". 
In an e-mail responding to the South Bend Tribune you said you don't remember how much you paid for the billboard, but a quiek look at Burkhart Advertising's web­site tells me it's around two grand for four weeks ... so for 12 weeks, assuming a little discount, you dropped around $5,000? For this? 
How about giving to Hannah and Friends instead, whose billboard yours currently sits right next to. Or to The Shirt eharity fund, or to help create a scholarship that will help bring somebody less well-off to Notre Dame. 
Anything but a billboard that wastes money, generates a little negative publicity, and tries to bring instability to a program that proba­bly couldn't care less what you think. 
Oh, and next time you want to take shots at someone, just sign your name instead ofhiding behind a eute little name. 
Sincerely, 
MiehaelBryan 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd. edu 

mppoltandassistance availahJeil.tNotre Dame: 
Sr. Sue Dunn, ( )(>, Studl·nt Allairs. ();-! 1-7H 19 
:\nn Firth, Studl'lll All;Iirs, (),'.\1-21iX5 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus .Mini~lry. (~'li-7Hi:i 
John Dillou. Cmnpu.~ Ministry, fi:-11-7 Itii{ 
Dr. Susan Stcihc-ll;tsalich, Counsdiug Ctr.• li:-H•t%;) 
E. Kil•m, Health Scnin~~. fiill-H2Xli 
\Vnnll'u 's Care Center: 2n 1-11368 
Cittholk· Charitit•s: 2:-l 1-H Ill 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 3, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 35 Patient 62._admin Facility responses (computer techie)
5 -+ What this is, 36 Geisha's on a calendar accessory 63Hip 8 Signals 37Uke Down
12 Jiltee of myth 38 Many "Star 14 Yamaha offering, Wars• fighters Voltaic cell 
meas.
in brief 40 Blood, e.g. 2 Abbr. in a help­
15 Perform 42 Forward wanted adacceptably 43 Some people in 3 E·mail address 16 Profanities (and a tree endinga hint to this 44 Division of an
puzzle's 4 Like H. P. 
office bldg. 

anomalies) Lovecraft among 45 Wasn't straight all popular
19 Peer group? 46Carry-_ writers?
20 Razz 
5 Showtypes
47 Garden sights 6 Part of a 2005 
21 UverpooHcr 
Portsmouth dir. 491s behind SBC merger
23 Buzzers 51 Record holders? 
7 Actress Mlmieux 25 Some (and a punny of "Where the 
exchanges, hint to this Boys Are" 
quickly puzzle's anomalies) 
8 Offering, as a28 Arrives 
price30 Mean mien 
58 Sluggish 9 12 or 15 min. 

32 Scale range 59 Whistle blower 10 Ax abbr. 
Puzzle by Aahlsh VengAikar
33 Do what Jell-0 60 ·American !dor 
11 Peck parts: Abbr.
does judge 33 Courtroom 43 Pergolas 53 Part of a violin
131ranian supreme
34 Alley of Moo 61 "Man oh manr identification
leader._ 45 Dance grp. at 54 Hardly macho 
Khamenel 36 Starts of some the Met ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE sporting events
15 100 lbs. 48 It goes over a 55 Actress Williams 17 Some musical 39 Big chip off the plate of the 1960s­notes old block? 70s
SO_Ieash 18 Football 
40 Health 51 Horse and 56_ lopezlinemen: Abbr. 
supplement buggy (chess opening) 21 They may haw chain 52 Official lang. of ninos and nifias 41 Defended Barbados 570nthe_22 Exit 

24 Royal son of the For answers. call 1·900-285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit comics card. 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
26 Nuclear unit 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1--888·7-ACROSS. 27 Merchants AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzz.Jes, or visit 28 Stuff on a shelf nytimes.comtmobilexword for more information. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past29 Kowtower 
puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year}.30 Squeals Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. 31 Cans Crosswords lor young solvers: nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 


WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK

SCHAD & FREUDE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
page 23 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRmF,s BORN ON THIS DAY: Salma Hayek. 42: Lennox Lewis. 43; Keanu Reeves. 44; Terry Bradshaw, 60 Happy Birthday: There is plenty on !he line and the boundaries are limited. You will ha\'C to calculate your every move. making sure you don't warne or give in too soon. Bal­ance will be the klly to getting what you want in the end Take it slow and make each move strategically. Your numbers are 4. 12. 20, 26, 35, 44 
ARJES (Mardi Zl·Aprill9): You'll feel emotionally up and down due to what you are told and how you are treated. Nothing will be as bad as you think. so don't react. A con· nection you have to someone who motivates you may be questionable. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a break. You need some time t<J put things in <Jrdcr and decide what you want to do wilh !be rest of your life. New places will intrigue you and a job you never considered in the pa5t will interest you. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June ZO): A unique proposal based on your qualifications and ability to multitask will interest you. D<.>n't be too slow to accept an opponunity or you'll have regrets. Love is in the stars and 11 oodal event will be geared toward romance. 5 stars 
CANCER {June 21-July 22): Stick clo.o;e to the people you trust and respect. The older and more experienced people will give you good advice and >tand behind your every move. Your personal relationships. however. will give you mixed me~sages leading to misunderstandings and breakups. 2 stars 
LEO {July 23-Aug. 2%); Doing things that are unique will give you connections with in· !cresting people who are i.nspirationaJ and can add a spark to your ideas. f..ove is growing with wmeonc wfu wants to <pend more time with you. Try to ac,;ommodau: this pc\'SOn. 4 stan; 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-.'>ept. 2l); There will be a lot riding OIIIKIW much y<Ju do. The ~pee· lations will be high and the willingness on your part to add detail and pll'Cision will seal a deal. A partnm~hip with someone very different fmm yol.ll'liClf will form if you aren't adn· mant about working alooe. 3 stan 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0c:t. 2%): Don't get into a fight with someone. It won't be worth your lime and the backlash you fat:e will be hard to rectify. You may want to n:lhink y<.>ur rela· iionships <Uld oonsider whed1er or not some <Jf them are good fw you. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Ott. 23-Not-.ll): Don't rely on others. You can get some good advice on a job yoo want to do at home but do !he actual work yourself, ifpossible. Hiring someone to do somelhing you can do yourself will be a waste of money and !he job won't be done to your satisfaction. 3 stars 
SAGITI'ARJUS (Nov. ZZ.Dec. 21): You can position yourself profes.~ionally in such a way that !he demand for your talents will skyrocket. Offer a new innovative idea. concept or service. Some of the older people will fight the change but you will surpass any inter· fen:n~ 4 stan; 
CAPRICORN (Dec. Z2-Jan.l9): Don't undere;;timatc !be power <.>f communication. Someone can and will twi~t your words amund. Ellplain your ideal' concisely. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Perstmally and financially you are coming into an inter· esting and unusual developmemlhat will make your life easier. Acommitment or prom· ise will help you achieve your dreams, hopes and wishes. Love is on the rise. 5 stars 
PJSCES (Feb. 19·March 20): Don't get labeled passe because you are using old, out­dated methods. Look to someone younger who is a little ahead of his or her time to in· spire you to move in !he right direction. It may be time to take on a younger partner. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a sophisticated appeal and are creative and clever. You can be demanding. uncompromising, persuasive, charming and controlling. 
JEFF KNUREK 


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
~]! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SCOUF j
I I [ II 
{';2()08 Tribune Media services, Inc, 








r~rn 
II 
RULBET 
WEDDEG 

(IJ II 
Print answer here: ( 

J I J I I J J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  WHINE  OLDER  (Answers tomorrow) PEPTIC UNSEAT  
Answer:  Why the play didn't have a long run  - 
IT WAS "PEDESTRIAN"  
The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  


WHAT YOU C..AN DO AT FIRST, IF YOU'RE: THE: BOSS' SON 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _______________________________________________________ City _______ State _______ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 





PORTS
Thursday, September 3, 2009 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Tean1looks forvvard to first n1atch in brand nevv stadiun1 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 
After 16 months of watching Alumni Stadium grow brick-by­brick, No. 2 Notre Dame will finally be able to enjoy their $5.7 million state-of-the-art facility when No. 1 North Carolina comes to town Friday night. 
"There is no other word to say than it's exciting," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "We are going to get on the field early Thursday night just to have a lit­tle bit of practice on it before Friday's game." 

The team wants to test out the new field before Friday's tilt not just because the defending champion Tar Heels are coming to town, but also because the new playing surface at Alumni Stadium will alter the flow of the game. 
"We brought in some sod, a different kind of grass than was at Alumni Field, from Colorado because the weather is similar there," Waldrum said. "[Men's soccer coach] Bobby Clark and I both wanted a shorter grass than was at Alumni Field, a little bit quicker grass." 
The shorter grass will distinct­ly speed up the pace of any game played at Alumni Stadium, while an LED Daktronics score­board will keep track of Irish scores. Luxuries such as the scoreboard, an improved light­ing system and an air-condi­tioned press box elevate Alumni Stadium to a rarified air in col­lege soccer. Other programs with stadiums of similar quality include West Virginia, Tennessee and Texas, but few, if any, other college soccer pro­grams have the same amenities the Irish will begin enjoying Friday. 

"What the team is most excit­ed about is the locker room and the lounge area we will have," Waldum said. "We have been using the visitor's locker room in the baseball stadium as our per­manent locker room for the 10 years I've been here." 
The new Alumni Stadium will have a locker room with custom wood lockers for each player, as well as a lounge area with flat­screen plasma TVs for the play­ers. 
see STADIUM/page 22 
FOOTBALL 


Secondary to n.one 
Talented defensive 
An open letter to backs headline Irish D alumnus Tom Reynolds 
Dear Tom Reynolds,
By MATT GAMBER 
You had me fooled. For a while 
Sports Editor 
there, I thought there was no way 
that the per­

No position group boasts son that paid more talented and experi­for that bill­enced depth than the Irish board above secondary, an area of thP'Backer strength on last year's was actually a mediocre defense that hopes Notre Dame to improve with gifted alumnus. It youngsters throughout the had to really front seven. be some USC 
Though safeties Kyle 
Michael Bryan or Michigan

McCarthy and Harrison fan, right? I Smith have been projected mean, there's starters since the start of Associate noway any­spring camp, there has been Sports Editor one smart a healthy competition enough to between corners, and for receive a playing time in nickel and degree from Notre DamP would put dime packages. But that VANESSA GEMPIS!The Observer that up... right? 
Senior safety Harrison Smith, left, and sophomore cornerback Robert Blanton run through defensive 
see DEFENSE/page 22 back drills Tuesday. Both players are scheduled to start against Nevada Saturday. see BILLBOARD/page 22 

MEN'S TENNIS 

ND needs youth to step up in fall 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
After the graduation of Brett Helgeson, the Irish will look to a young core of returning players to fill the No. 1 singles void over the course of the fall season in prepa­ration for the spring. 
Among the potential candidates are juniors Stephen Havens and Dan Stahl, who played No. 2 and 3 singles respectively for the Irish last season. Sophomore Casey Watt also may have an opportuni­ty to prove himself early in the season. 

"Last year Havens at times played like that player, but he needs to demonstrate the match­to-match consistency that was missing a year ago," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Certainly he has the ball-striking ability to win at the top. Adding a stronger presence at the net will give him a chance to see just how good he can become. Watt had an outstanding record for us, but at a lower lineup slot." 
Bayliss noted that Stahl had suc­cess last season in the middle of the lineup and that the team may end up with a No. 1 by committee for the time being. 
The Irish will compete in some events this fall that will allow them to shift the lineup around and fmd the right combination of players. Included in that mix will be sophomores Niall Fitzgerald and Sam Keeton, who each saw significant action last season for the Irish. 
"Watt always competes fero­ciously, but needs to expand his tennis vocabulary by adding some new weapons," Bayliss said. "Fitzgerald has come back with much greater confidence. lie is now able to keep his backhand out of the middle of the court 
see TENNIS/page 22 


Sophomore Niall Fitzgerald returns a shot against Kentucky on Feb. 
23. The Irish fell to the Wildcats 5-2. 
Check out The Observer's Irish Insider podcast at ndsmcobserver.com/podcasts
IRISH...JNSIDER 

as beat writers Bill Brink. Matt Garnber & Sarn Werner preview Saturday's game against Nevada

PODCAST 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 






