the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Campus activism: Then and now 
‘Notre Dame 10’ to return to campus to honor 40th anniversary of Dow-CIA demonstration 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Editor’s note: This is the first of a four-part series commemo­rating the 40th anniversary of the Notre Dame 10 and explor­ing the history of student activism on campus. 
The number 10 had a special ring to it in November of 1969. 
On Nov. 18, 1969, 10 students were suspended for a protest related to the Vietnam War, and the group was quickly dubbed the “Notre Dame 10” as they fought their suspension 
— an issue that generated national media attention at the time. 
For Mark Mahoney, one of the suspended students, that number 10 has influenced him for a lifetime. 
On the 40th anniversary of the protest and suspension, Mahoney, class of 1971, is returning to Notre Dame Wednesday with other mem­bers of the Notre Dame 10 to explore campus activism now and then with a panel discus­sion, a dinner and a Mass presided by University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and Fr. Emmanuel Charles McCarthy. 
“We are not returning to campus because of nostalgia. There’s nothing to be nostalgic about during this period,” he said. “There were horrific things being done and we were anguishing over that.” 
About 1 p.m. on that Tuesday afternoon, Mahoney said about 100 students gathered in the Main Building to protest on-campus recruitment efforts by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and The Dow Chemical Co. The students involved in the demonstration, known as the Dow-CIA protest, objected to Dow’s production of napalm, a chemical used by the military in the Vietnam War, often on civilians. 
see PROTEST/page 4 



‘Mayor of Hell’ works to improve Braddock 



Studentsaidschoolnewspaper 
Volunteers collaborate with local Catholic school on student publication 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame student volun­teers are giving elementary stu­dents at St. Adalbert’s Catholic school the chance to collaborate with their classmates on a school newspaper. 
The project was the idea of Juliet Joly, a senior Psychology major and Catholic Social Tradition minor. 
Joly said her older sister, Joanna, who went to Brown University, inspired her. 
“I thought it was a really good idea,” Joly said. She contacted Notre Dame’s Institute for Educational Initiatives — a pro­gram in Brownson Hall that sponsors the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) — and the Institute responded positive­ly. 
From there, Joly said she con­tacted the principal of St. 
Adalbert’s, as well as the school’s after-school care facili­tator, who were both just as excited about the idea. 
Joly said both she and Joanna were passionate about helping under-resourced Catholic schools, specifically. Their younger sister, Janine, a sopho­more at Notre Dame, also volun­teers with the program. 
St. Adalbert’s is one of the 
see PAPER/page 6 



SMC students share abroad stories 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College kicked off their International Education and Modern Language Week yesterday with an intercultural show­case. The event consisted of music, photos, videos and personal stories of study abroad experiences. 
The showcase gave former study abroad students the 
see SHOWCASE/page 6 




By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
A Rolling Stone profile called him the “Mayor of Hell,” and Braddock, Pa. “maybe the worst town in America,” but that doesn’t seem to have diminished Mayor John Fetterman ’s energy or dedication to the historic steel town. 
“Our challenge in the town … is abandonment. 
Since I’ve taken over we’ve saved over two dozen struc­tures, and not one of them was occupied,” Fetterman said in an interview Monday morning. 
Fetterman was on campus to deliver a lecture Monday at 8 p.m. The event was sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 
Now the poorest town in Allegheny County, 
see MAYOR/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Lecture discusses sex education page 3  Interview with Shwayze page 10  Interhall wraps page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 17, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Sparkle motion 
I am just as excited for the new “Twilight” movie as the next 21-year-old female. “New Moon” actually looks pretty darn entertain­ing. Everyone’s hair looks better and the action sequences feature Dakota Fanning and the guy who plays Colossus in the X-Men movies. If the clips in the TV spots are any indication, this thing might be a legitimately “good” movie, as far as an adaptation of a clichéd and derivative publishing phenome­

non can be. Jordan Gamble In fact, it looks so 
Associate
good that I am totally 
Scene Editor
going to see it this Thursday at midnight. My friends and I got these tickets a month ago. 
Despite this seeming devotion, I was on the edge of really hating the whole enter­prise a year ago. See, I read the first three books and loved them despite their gram­matical mistakes and portrayals of emotion­ally abusive relationships. Then I read the fourth installment, “Breaking Dawn,” when it came out in summer 2008. This is when I had the first inkling that author Stephenie Meyer was really stupid. 
Spoiler: Bella’s one-time werewolf crush Jacob falls in love with Bella’s demon baby and then there’s all this build-up for an epic battle with the crinkly, ancient Italian vam­pire police and nothing. They talk it out, it’s okay that there’s a demon baby, Bella’s okay that her one-time crush will marry her demon-baby, and everyone lives happily ever after, because they are all vampires and werewolves and they can’t die. The end. Fade to black. And I paid $24.99, pre­ordered from Amazon, for this? 
Thank heavens the movies didn’t disap­point. “Twilight” was seriously the best com­edy of 2008. My friends and I had no idea it would be so “LOL” worthy when we ven­tured out in a blizzard for the midnight Mishawaka premiere — we were expecting a dutifully angsty paranormal teenage romance. Nothing outrageous about that hope, right? 
Instead, we spent half the movie with our scarves shoved in our mouths to keep from giggling at inappropriate moments. Kristen Stewart’s Bella just wouldn’t stop blinking! Robert Pattinson’s Edward scares off drunk­en frat boys by galloping in with a Volvo and then growling. There is a baseball game choreographed to Muse! Oh, and don’t even try to tell me you didn’t cry tears of mirth when Edward reveals his sparkly six-pack with the explanation of “This is the skin of killer, Bella!” 
But, really, I liked “Twilight.” Don’t doubt my commitment to Sparkle Motion: I can appreciate what things “Twilight” does well: Angst and more angst. Awkward human-vampire interaction. Pretty pine trees. 
So, naturally, I am excited for “New Moon.” Now there is awkward human-vam­pire-werewolf interaction. Taylor Lautner’s Jacob, the shirtless werewolf wonder, joins Bella’s collection of emotionally abusive and codependent relationships. And, there is more of those sparkly six-pack abs, only this time they’re revealed in Italy. 
But I can’t back out now. I’m committed 
— I’ve got the print-out receipt from my pre-order tacked up on my loft. I’ll just have to make sure I bring a scarf to muffle my giggles this time, too. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: DO YOU HAVE ANY TIPS FOR WINNING THE DORM ENER Y COMPETITION? 








Connor Kobeski  Dan Reid  Jackie Mirandola Mullen  Lauren Demeter  Meehan Lenzen  Patrick McCormick  
senior  senior  senior  senior  junior  sophomore  
Siegfried  off campus  Howard  Pasquerilla West  Pasquerilla East  Keough  
“Turn off video  “Take group  “Turn on a  “Wash your  “Give people  “Unplug your  
games. Your  showers to save  compact  clothes in  who ride the  vending  
score doesn’t  hot water.”  florescent lamp  another dorm ...  elevator dirty  machine and  
get higher when  instead of the  Walsh did.”  looks. It’s the  you will win.”  
you’re not  overhead light.”  ride of shame.”  

playing.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer The all-female acapella group “Harmonia” performs during halftime of the Notre Dame-St. Francis men’s basketball game on Monday at the Purcell Pavilion. Notre Dame won the game, 95-72. 
OFFBEAT 

Rings stolen from jeweler worth 25 cents a piece 
TOLEDO, Ohio — An Ohio jeweler says thieves who smashed their way into his store and got away with rings are in for a surprise when they try to sell them. Henry Triplett of Henry’s Jewelers in Toledo says what appeared to be thou­sands of dollars in gold rings in his display cases were actually rings made of brass and worth barely 25 cents apiece. 
They were dealers’ sam­ples in the style of genuine gold rings that Triplett had safely locked away, out of view. 
He says the real cost of Friday’s break-in will come from replacing the front window on his shop and the shattered glass on 13 display cases. 
Boy shoots black bear on family’s front porch 
DRIGGS, Idaho — An 11­year-old boy shot a black bear on his family’s front porch after he said it would-n’t leave. The boy was at his home near Driggs, just west of the Idaho-Wyoming bor­der, with his younger sisters last Wednesday when the bear showed up. The young­ster said he couldn’t shoo it away, so he went and got his gun and shot it. 
Black bears in the area have prompted multiple complaint calls, largely because they’ve been hang­ing around a transfer sta­tion. 
It wasn’t clear if the bear shot by the boy was also attracted by the transfer station. 
Idaho Department of Fish and Game Officer Lauren Wendt said, “we got multi­ple complaint calls. We don’t like to see them down this low. But it’s not uncom­mon.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 

IN BRIEF 
“The Rise of Ethnic Politics in Latin America” will be held at 
12:30 p.m. today. The lecture will be held in C-103 in the Hesburg Center. 
Mike Huckabee will be signing “A Simple Christmas: Twelve Stories That Celebrate the True Holiday Spirit” at 2 p.m. today. The booksigning will be held in th Hammes Café in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
A seminar titled “The Role of Catalysis and Reaction Engineering in the Energy Arena” will be held in 129 DeBartolo Hall today. The semi­nar will begin at 3:30 p.m. 
A Catholic Common Ground Conversation will be held in the Earley Conference Rooms in the Student Center at Saint Mary’s College today. The discussion will begin at 4 p.m. 
“Fall Harvest: 10 New Plays” will be presented in the Philbin Studio Theatre in DebBarto Performing Arts Center at 7:30 
p.m. today. The event is free, but tickets are needed to enter. To order tickets, call 574-631­2800 or visit performingarts.nd.edu. 
The International Week Recital will be held at 7:30 p.m. in Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary’s College. 
A fictionalized dialogue will be held at 8 p.m. in 100, 102, and 105 in Jordan Hall of Science. The dialogue is titled “Darwin and Owen at Notre Dame: A conversation after 150 years.” 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Friday Gameday 


Atlanta 65 / 52 Boston 51 / 39 Chicago 53 / 40 Denver 51 / 20 Houston 70 / 47 Los Angeles 68 / 51 Minneapolis 50 / 30 New York 55 /43 Philadelphia 56 / 42 Phoenix 76 / 46 Seattle 50 / 45 St. Louis 49 /44 Tampa 81 / 61 Washington 57 / 44 
Tuesday, November 17, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Project presents on sex ed 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Americans live in a media world that believes sex is without consequences, Vicki Thorn, founder of Project Rachel, said Monday. 
Thorn visited campus to lec­ture on topics in sex education that aren’t taught in the aver­age American classroom. 
Thorn spoke first about the common bond shared by all those attending her speech. 
“Everyone in this room only has the mitochondria of their mothers,” she said. 
Thorn stated that research has proven that these mito­chondria have been traced back to seven distinct lines of women, leading to the scien­tific possibility of an Eve fig­ure in human evolution. 
“In a society where we are such rugged individuals, in reality there is this intercon­nection,” Thorn said. 
Thorn shifted from the sub­ject of interconnectedness to the problem of selective abor­tion. Thorn spoke of how in some Asian nations — particu­larly China, India and North Korea — selective abortions have led to more males being born in the population. 
This has led warfare, based on the rising levels of testos­terone and search for female companionship in those soci­eties. 
“When a society tips to male, they are more likely to go to war,” Thorn said. 
Thorn also focused on the difference between male and female brains, showing a dis­play of a female brain much like a circle and the male brain like a series of boxes. She said males think linearly while women think in a multi­tasking manner. According to Thorn, these shapes are important to the way human society works. 
“There’s this innate differ­ence between being male and female. It’s about being com­plementary,” she said. 
Thorn said the importance of pheromones in communica­tions between males and females. Thorn said pheromones can be perceived in 80 percent of humans, and women with this ability are able to detect a potential mate. 
“Women have the ability to meet a male and using pheromones determine whether he is a strong possi­bility for fertility,” she said. 
Thorn said men perceive pheromones in a different way by detecting whether a woman is fertile, infertile or pregnant. She said when women ovulate, they send out the strongest signals to males and trigger a response in testosterone. 
“This is why women get date raped and then pregnant,” Thorn said. “This is a time when we’re conditionable and arousable.” 
Thorn said the introduction of birth control has some com­plications in society in regards to male and female relations. 
“We know that male fertility has dropped 50 percent since the advent of the pill,” she said. 

Thorn also said the chemi­cals in birth control pills have become a waste management issue as they have began to collect in the world’s water systems. She described “the scent of infertile women” as possibly causing problems in society such as pornography and violent rape. 
Thorn said pheromones do have important positive pur­poses as well. 
“Men can perceive when their partner is pregnant and are changed forever,” she said. 
Thorn also highlighted the importance of this chemistry between men and woman is lifelong. She brought up the topic of addictive substances. She said amphetamines in our brain dominate the period in which we are infatuated with someone, lasting eight months to four years. 
Longer lasting love, another type of addiction — which is more stable than infatuation 
— is linked to oxytocin, an opiate. 
“We need to recognize that we’re changed by every act of intimacy,” Thorn said. 
Thorne closed her lecture with an important word of advice for audience members. 
“Our society has made love cheap without really speaking about the changes that occur,” she said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Task forces meet, update grouponrecentprogress 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council (CLC) met Monday afternoon to give updates on the progress of the three task forces. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said Monday’s meeting was most likely the second to last one of the semester, with the final meeting coming in December. 
First to present was student body vice president Cynthia Weber, the chairman of the Task Force on Evaluation of Student Disciplinary Records, who said her group recently altered their direction. 
Previously, the task force was looking into the possible elimina­tion of first time minor offenses from a student’s disciplinary record. 
“The committee will focus more on incidents referred to by external bodies,” she said. 
Weber said the task force met with Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­dent of the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH), to discuss the matter. She said he and other members of the ORLH staff receive individual inquiries from law schools, medical schools and employment agencies asking about the disciplinary history of a stu­dent. 
“If we ask them to remove the offense from the record … there would be a disparity between what’s on file and what people actually know,” Weber said. 
Weber said they will look into the differences in the way off-campus issues are handled versus dorm to dorm. 
The group is looking into the pos­sibility of asking the University to refer the incident to the student’s rector instead of being sent straight to ORLH. 
Chairman of Student Legal Services John Delanco said they are almost at the stage of drafting a resolution, but would like to com­plete the framework of the data­base of area attorneys before they do so. 
Delanco said the group is trying to find a way to monitor the hits the database receives without making students feel they are being watched. He also said the group needs to work with attorneys to see how much public access they want allowed to the site. 
After the Task Force on Advertising was dissolved in favor of holding off until agenda.nd.edu debuts, Bridget Bredemann said its members have embarked on the new task of creating a stronger link between alumni and current Notre Dame students. 
The group will be looking into the level of involvement students on campus wish to see from alum­ni, as well as the possible creation of some form of “exit poll” to gauge what types of student groups’ alumni wish to remain involved in. 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 17, 2009 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
The students rallied under the Dome, blocking Dow and CIA recruiters from entering or leaving the building. 
“We were staging a sit in, and at the time, that form of protest well known in the anti-war movement and the Civil Rights 

m o v e m e n t , ”  made a decision  
Mahoney said. But months e a r l i e r ,  “We were staging a sit in, and at the  that it was a time to take a stand on this  
Hesburgh, then- time, that form of  issue aware  
University presi­dent, had enact­ed the 15-minute  protest well known in the anti-war  there might be some conse-q u e n c e s  
rule to address  movement and  i n v o l v e d , ”  
the rising num­ber of campus protests. The  the Civil Rights movement.”  Eckenrode said. E c k e n r o d e will return to  
rule stated that  c a m p u s  
de monstrators were allowed 15 minutes to  Mark Mahoney student protester  Wednesday for the 40th anniversary of  
protest. If they  the protest,  

did not stop in that period, the students would face conse­quences. 
“Anyone or any group that substitutes force for rational persuasion, be it violent or non-violent, will be given 15 minutes of meditation to cease and desist,” Hesburgh wrote in a letter to Notre Dame faculty and students dated Feb. 17, 1969. 
“If they do not within that time period cease and desist, they will be asked for their 
identity card,” “As an alum, I want the letter said. 
to know what the
The Notre Dame 10 was issues of concern are 
the first and for students, I want to only group of 
see what is the same
students pun­ished through and what has the 15-minute changed from 40rule. 
years ago.” 
Fr. James Riehle, dean of students at the John Eckenrode time, took the student protester
identification cards of 10 stu­dents after the 15 minutes had passed. 
Mahoney said the students banded together that night and eventually appealed their sus­pensions. Originally, five stu­dents were expelled and five were suspended. 
Riehle downgraded the expulsion of the five students to a suspension, but did not remove the suspension of the 10 students, Mahoney said. 
“The proceedings were very court-like and the procedures and rules of evidence and thing were quite technical,” Mahoney said. “But the technicality of that wasn’t our concern. It was that the issues we were raising were moral issues, not legal issues.” 
John Eckenrode was one of the 10 suspended that day along with Mahoney, and he graduated a semester late because of the suspension. But he said he does not regret his involvement in the demonstra­tion. 
“I was aware that the 15 minute rule could be evoked. I 
along with Mahoney. 
“I think it’s important for us as a university to commemo­rate what has really been a long and interesting history of social activism at Notre Dame,” Eckenrode said. “For me, this is keeping alive a part of Notre Dame history.” 
Mahoney said it is important to him to keep the dialogue alive. 
“So many students at Notre Dame are socially conscious 
learn about activism on cam­pus now. 
“As an alum, I what to know what the issues of concern are for students,” he said. “I want to see what is the same and what has changed from 40 years ago.” 
The second installment of this series will look back on the events of 40 years ago and examine possibilities for the future of student activism. It will run in Wednesday’s edi­tion. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



and concerned with issues of morality, institu­tions and life and death issues,” he said. “We need to conti nually question what the role is of a Catholic univer­sity is in times of war.” 
When visiting campus on We d n e s d a y, Eckenrode said he hopes to 

World & Nation 
Tuesday, November 17, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mussolini’s mistress’ diary published 
ROME — Benito Mussolini was a fierce anti-Semite, who proudly said that his hatred for Jews preceded Adolf Hitler’s and vowed to “destroy them all,” according to previously unpublished diaries by the Fascist dictator’s longtime mistress. 
According to the diaries, Mussolini also talked about the warm reception he received from Hitler at the 1938 Munich conference — he called the German leader a “softy” — and attacked Pope Pius XI for his criticism of Nazism and Fascism. 
On a more intimate note, Mussolini was explicit about his sexual appetites for his mistress and said he regretted having affairs with several other women. 
The dairies kept by Claretta Petacci, Mussolini’s mistress, between 1932 and 1938 are the subject of a book coming out this week entitled “Secret Mussolini.” 
Australia apologizes to Brit kids 
CANBERRA, Australia — When John Hennessey was 10 years old, he was sent from a war-weary Britain to an orphanage in Australia, where he was told food was plentiful and chil­dren rode kangaroos to school. 
Instead, he was beaten and sexually abused, leaving him emotionally scarred and with a stut­ter that persists 60 years later. 
“There’s no other country in the world that has deported their children to the other side of the world and then abandoned them,” the 72-year­old said before an emotional ceremony Monday in Australia, where Prime Minister Kevin Rudd apologized for his country’s role in a shameful episode in British colonial history. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Woman to plead guilty in Smart case 
SALT LAKE CITY — The wrenching saga of Elizabeth Smart’s abduction and improbable recovery is showing the first signs of resolution seven years after it began. 
On Tuesday, Wanda Eileen Barzee — one of two people charged in the case — will plead guilty to charges of kidnapping and unlawful transportation of a minor in U.S. District Court in Salt Lake City, attorney Scott Williams told The Associated Press. 
Barzee’s alleged role in the abduction has garnered less attention than that of her estranged husband, Brian David Mitchell, but her expected plea to the federal charges marks a major step forward in the separate cases that stalled when both defendants were ruled incompetent for trial. 
Smart’s abduction at knifepoint from the bedroom of her Salt Lake City home in 2002 riveted the nation as hundreds of people helped search for the blonde-haired, blue-eyed girl who loved to play the harp. 
Ohio police chief’s trial begins 
ST. CLAIRSVILLE, Ohio — A police chief on trial in Ohio acknowledges that he joked with paparazzi about working with them to snoop on the woman who carried twins for celebrity cou­ple Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick. 
The lawyer representing suspended Chief Barry Carpenter said during opening arguments Monday that Carpenter was “foolish,” but that he never stole anything from the woman’s home. 
A state prosecutor told jurors that Carpenter used his position as chief in Martins Ferry, the eastern Ohio town where surrogate Michelle Ross lived, to exploit someone’s personal and inti­mate privacy. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Court weighs use of tests in sentencing 
INDIANAPOLIS — A felon’s friends and hobbies could influence how much time he spends behind bars if the Indiana Supreme Court upholds a lower-court ruling. 
At issue is a type of psychological test commonly used by probation officers to assess whether an offender is likely to commit more crimes and determine the level of supervision and type of treatment needed. A Tippecanoe County judge cited Anthony Malenchik’s high test score in sen­tencing him to six years out of a possible 7 1/2 for receiving stolen property and being a habitual offender. 
CHINA 

ObamameetswithChina’spresident 
While Obama says the world is watching, Chinese censors block his message 
Associated Press 

BEIJING — President Barack Obama declared Monday the world is urgently watching for a “meeting of the minds” between the U.S. and China as he meets with President Hu Jintao on the globe’s biggest issues — climate change, economic reces­sion, nuclear proliferation and more. 
Obama also prodded China about Internet con­trols and free speech, but his message was not widely heard in the country because his words were drastically limited online and shown on just one regional television channel. 
In his first visit here, Obama is strongly suggest­ing that China, now a giant in economic impact as well as territory, must take a bigger role on the world stage — part of the “burden of leadership” it shares with the United States. 
“I will tell you, other countries around the world will be waiting for us,” Obama said in an American-style town-hall discussion with Chinese university students in Shanghai, where he spent a day before flying to China’s capital for a state visit with President Hu. lion, China is the No. 1 Diaoyutai State Guesthouse. at a lavish state dinner in 
The town hall meeting lender to Washington and In brief remarks before Obama’s honor. Obama was showed how difficult it is has expressed concern that the initial talks, Hu noted spending Wednesday in for the governments to the falling price of the dol-Obama’s Shanghai meeting Beijing as well before com-work together. The U.S. ini-lar threatens the value of with students, calling the pleting his weeklong Asia tially requested a larger its U.S. holdings. session “quite lively.” travels in South Korea. venue and a live broadcast In the U.S., American Obama smiled broadly As is now becoming on a major network. In the manufacturers blame throughout the welcoming familiar, Obama was full of end, Chinese officials put China’s own low currency remarks, then told Hu that compliments for China dur­the event on the eastern value for contributing to “the world recognizes the ing the town hall, lauding fringes of the city. Only the loss of 5.6 million man-importance of the U.S.-its scientific achievements, local Shanghai TV carried ufacturing jobs over the Chinese relationship” in rich history and astounding it live, though it was past decade. During that tackling global problems. economic rise. streamed on two popular time, America’s trade gap The two were meeting As is also familiar, the Internet portals and on the with China has soared. again more formally on president balanced the White House’s Web site, Obama was greeted at Tuesday, complete with the warm words with polite which is not censored. Beijing’s airport by Vice military pomp of a welcome nudges in more sensitive 
Eager to achieve a suc-President Xi Jinping, a red ceremony at the Great Hall territory, for instance on cessful summit, the two carpet lined by soldiers in of the People and a joint the need for Beijing to leaders were likely to avoid dress uniforms and a dust-appearance before move toward a more con-public spats on economic ing of snow on the grass. reporters. With sightseeing sumer-driven economy and issues. With America’s He had brief talks and a in Beijing’s Forbidden City to improve human rights budget deficit soaring to a private dinner with Hu on sandwiched in between, the and freedoms for its peo­yearly record of $1.42 tril-the graceful grounds of the two leaders’ day was to end ple. 

KENYA 

Kenyans recruited to fight in Somalia 
insurgents in neighboring Somalia, rumors but no hard evidence of 
Associated Press 
according to deserters, local officials, recruitment in refugee camps, which 

DADAAB — The recruits assembled families of recruits and diplomats. Most would violate the rights of the by moonlight at a watering hole. recruits are Somalis living in crowded refugees. Hundreds of boys and young Kenyan refugee camps and Kenyan nationals Eight diplomats, citing internal men were herded onto trucks, which who are ethnic Somalis living nearby. reports and other sources, told The were covered with heavy canvas, and Spokesmen from the Kenyan govern-Associated Press that the recruits are driven through the night. ment, police and military, as well as being trained for a planned offensive 
It was so hot inside they could hardly the Somali chief of military staff, have on behalf of Somalia’s weak, U.N.­breathe. One recruit, Salad Dahir, said denied that the government is recruit-backed government to wrest control of they banged the sides of the truck for ing fighters within Kenya. But inter-parts of southern Somalia from the water but got none. Some had to uri-views showed that recruiting has been insurgents. The diplomats spoke on nate where they stood. taking place for months and that differ-condition of anonymity to prevent dam-
Their destination: a secluded training ent government agencies and military aging relations with Kenya over the camp deep in the Kenyan bush. resources — including vehicles with sensitive subject. Two of the diplomats 
Thousands of people, including chil-government license plates — have said the offensive is planned for the dren, are being secretly recruited and been involved. end of Somalia’s rainy season around trained inside Kenya to battle Islamic A U.N. official says there have been the end of the year. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 17, 2009 
Mayor 
continued from page 1 
Braddock’s population has been on a downward slide for years. It’s gone from over 20,000 residents to just 2,500 residents, according to the town’s official Web site, www.15104.cc 
The median home price is around $6,000. Fetterman himself lives in a refurbished warehouse that he bought for $2,000, according to a New York Times story pub­
lished in January. 
Fetterman, who grew up in York, Pa., holds a number of degrees includ­ing a Masters in Public Policy from Harvard University. He first went to Braddock in July 2001 at the request of the county to lead a service program for severely disen­franchi sed youth. 
He ran for mayor in 2005 and won the primary by a single vote. Since then, he 
visiting the school once a week. The group of student volun­teers usually piles into vans from the Center for Social Concerns at 3 
p.m. on Fridays so they are there just as the St. Adalbert stu­dents are finish­ing their classes, Joly said. 
Joly said the kids are “very excited about the school newspa­per. It’s very clear that after school time they are looking for something con­structive to do for Braddock, using our assets that we already have and creating something that makes sense.” 
One of the first buildings Fetterman refurbished him­self was an abandoned church, which he lived in with no heat or electricity for eight months. The church now functions as a communi­ty center. 
A new urban farm now operates in the town. And while Fetterman has been featured on a variety of media outlets, including The Colbert Report, he is quick to 
The area’s only art gallery was an abandoned middle school. The greenest building is the one that’s already there. Green initiatives and green jobs are a pragmatic solution for Braddock, using our assets that we already have and creating something that makes sense. 
John Fetterman mayor Braddock, Pa. 
has supported a number of initiatives aimed at bringing new residents to Braddock, while also creating new com­munity spaces for current Braddock residents. 
“The area’s only art gallery was an abandoned middle school, ” Fetterman said. “The greenest building is the 
one that ’s already there. Green initiatives and green jobs are a pragmatic solution 
Paper 
continued from page 1 
ACE program’s Magnificat schools, which has a large Spanish-speaking community. 
Volunteering to help the stu­dents at St. Adalbert’s produce their school newspaper includes point out that he is not pitch­ing the idea of 
B r a d d o c k  t o  
anyone.  
“There is  no  

PR department. I don’t sell any­thing. I’m con­tinually work­ing for the community and sharing their story … for those interest­ed in moving to Braddock, I tell them it’s some­thing you’re in for the long haul,” Fetterman said. 
Fett erman now faces a new challenge, recently 

receiving news that the only hospital in town and a major employer for Braddock resi­dents is closing its doors. 
“Our hospital has been open since 1906. We have no restaurants, no stores. Soon, we won’t even have an ATM. This has huge implications for us,” he said. 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler@nd.edu 
Working with the students from St. Adalbert’s is a learning experience as well as a source of humor, especially when the stu­dents are able to tap into their full creative potentials, Joly said. 
“One of our third graders, in response to the cold climate of South Bend last year, started a series or short stories about the adventures of ‘Scarfman.’ I’m not sure if Scarfman is meant to 
“One of our third graders, in response to the cold climate of South Bend last year, started a series or short stories about the adventures of ‘Scarfman.’  I’m not sure if Scarfman is meant to be a superhero or a little boy like himself, but either way Scarfman has some very exciting adventures.” 
Juliet Joly senior 
be a superhero or a little boy like himself, but either way Scarfman has some very excit­ing adventures. The same stu­dent has turned out numerous mazes, polls, and comics, includ­ing a recent comic stop enti­tled ‘The Dangers of Eating Fruit.’ These kids are hilarious,” Joly said. 
Joly said her experiences with this program are conducive to her career plans. Next year, she 
Showcase 
continued from page 1 
´opportunity to share their experiences. 
“We send our students to other countries and now [they] have brought back the world to us. That is very exciting,” Dr. Alice Yang, the director of global education at Saint Mary’s, said. 
Students study all around the world, including the coun­tries of Rome, China, India, Ireland, Austria and many more. 
Krista Jones, a Saint Mary’s senior who studied in Uganda, said of her experi­ence: “It was an experience unlike any I could imagine.” 
In Uganda, children fol­lowed Jones wherever she went. 
“They had never seen a white person before,” Jones said. “They just wanted to touch my skin.” 
Mariam Masri, a Saint Mary’s senior who traveled to Lebanon, said her time abroad allowed her to meet relatives. 
“It was time for me to meet my dad’s side of the family,” she said. 
Masri also said being half Lebanese is quite unusual in America, but it was not so in Lebanon. She met many other “halfies,” she said. 
“There’s somebody else like me,” Masri said. “[It was] the experience of my life.” 
Other students talked about the cultural differences of countries compared to America. 
Others shared their hopes and desires for their host countries regarding health care, education, housing and other issues. 
In addition, the night was a time to honor the study abroad video, photo and essay contest winners. 
Junior Chelsea Crane won the video contest. 
In the host country category of the photo contest, first place went to Allison Russell, a senior, second to Anne Maguire, a junior, and third to junior Caitlin Gorman. 
In the reflections of Saint Mary’s experience photo cate­gory, Russell won first place while Megan McClowry, a senior, won both second and third place. 
In the interactions with peo­ple in the host country cate­gory, junior Christina Grasso took first and second place and Jones took third. 
Megan Aldrup, a junior, and junior Caroline Arness won first and second prize respec­tively in the essay contest. 
The event also helped edu­cate future study abroad applicants about the various grants available to students that can aid in covering study abroad costs. 
Yang said there are three possible grants for which stu­dents may apply. Two grants are funded by the Center for Women’s InterCultural Leadership (CWIL) and the Department of Humanistic Studies offers the third. 
The CWIL grants break down into one grant specifi­cally for the Saint Mary’s study abroad programs. However, this grant only applies to summer programs or the Rome program. The other grant is for independent study, and not affiliated with any study abroad program. 
The deadline for this year’s grant application is Feb. 1. Yang said students should visit the CWIL Web site for additional information. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

because they are full of a lot of energy. It’s a good chance for them to channel that.” 
Further, the newspaper allows the students to express them­selves in their own unique ways, Joly said. 
“We have kids who like poetry, fiction, polls, sports — there are all sorts of ways for them to carry out the mission of the newspaper,” she said. 
hopes to teach in the ACE pro­gram. She said she is inspired by the joy it brings her “to see the faces of the kids when we come in with a new newspaper they finished.” 
Joly’s program is looking for volunteers. To volunteer, con­tact Joly at julietjoly@gmail.com 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Business
Tuesday, November 17, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Vonage to settle 32-state investigation 
NEW YORK — Internet phone service provider Vonage Holdings Corp. has agreed to pay $3 million to 32 states to settle an investi­gation into some of its business practices. 
In a filing Monday with the Securities Exchange Commission, the company said it also agreed to provide refunds to affected cus­tomers. 
Idaho Attorney General Lawrence Wasden said his office received complaints from con­sumers who said they found it difficult to can­cel their service with Vonage amid pressure from the company to keep their accounts. 
Texas officials said that Vonage also failed to clearly tell potential customers that they need­ed to have high-speed Internet service to use Vonage, which offers cheaper calls by sending voice data over the Internet just like e-mail and Web pages. Officials said those unable to use the service had to pay cancellation and other fees. 
Maine’s attorney general, Janet Mills, said Vonage will revise what it discloses regarding offers of “free” services, money-back guaran­tees and trial periods. 
Holmdel, N.J.-based Vonage said there was no finding of any wrongdoing or violation by the company. In the SEC filing, Vonage said it agreed to make unspecified changes to its business practices, some of which the compa­ny had already implemented. 
Judge rejects global warming trial 
SALT LAKE CITY — A federal judge said Monday he won’t allow global warming to be put on trial in the case of a college student charged with disrupting an auction of oil and gas drilling leases. 
U.S. District Judge Dee Benson denied a motion by lawyers for Tim DeChristopher, who wanted to mount a defense that he acted in the interest of the greater good by bidding up parcels near some of Utah’s national parks. 
The University of Utah student won 13 leas­es at the Bureau of Land Management auc­tion last December while acknowledging he had no intention or capacity to pay the $1.7 million for his winning bids. He also drove up prices by hundreds of thousands of dollars on parcels won by others. 

Coca-Colatargetsemergingmarkets 
The world’s largest soft drink maker seeks to double business with new middle class 
Associated Press  
ATLANTA — Coca-Cola  
Co. seeks to double its busi­ 
ness in the next decade as it  
caters to the expected billion  
people worldwide who will  
join the middle class by  
2020.  
The world’s largest soft  
drink maker told analysts  
and investors at a meeting  
Monday that its systemwide  
revenue will reach $200 bil­ 
lion by 2020. The company  
hopes to make more money  
off those sales as it sells  
more soft drinks in emerg­ 
ing markets and reduces  
costs.  
CEO Muhtar Kent said that  
sales have doubled in the  
decade since 1997, and  
they’ll do so again because  
of growth in India, China  
and other countries.  
The company hopes global  
growth can make up for  
weak U.S. sales, which have  
been slipping as consumers  
limit their spending in the  
recession and switch to  
juices and teas.  
Kent said the company  
must pay attention and react  
to changes in the world,  
which it didn’t do from 2000  
to 2004.  
“We were too busy looking AP  
at the dashboard in front of Coca-Cola CEO Muhtar Kent speaks at a Coca-Cola investors conference Monday in  
us and not sufficiently pay-Atlanta. He said that his company’s systemwide revenue will reach $200 billion by 2020.  
ing attention to the world  
outside our windshield,” he  ronmental efforts, he said,  decade. In the next decade,  changing consumer tastes  
said.  such as the PlantBottle.  Coca-Cola expects to have  by being faster to market  
The company believes that  Earlier Monday the compa­ 30 brands worth that much  with new products because  
the world will be a different  ny said it is using the new  as it sells more of its brands  it will control distribution.  
place in the next decade,  bottle, which is partially  to the rising middle class  The move also means  
with more consumers in the  made out of plants, in some  around the world.  PepsiCo, based in Purchase,  
middle class and more living  markets like Denmark and  The company said because  N.Y., can save on costs.  
in urban areas. Coke said  the western U.S. Coca-Cola  it operates in more than 200  But Kent said Coca-Cola  
people — many of them  plans to have 2 billion of the  countries, it will be better  remains committed to its  
young consumers the com- bottles in production by the  able to grow in these new  franchise system, which sells  
pany will target — will also  end of next year.  markets while still keeping  concentrate to bottlers who  
want their brands to show  Coca-Cola plans to focus  its costs down. It eyes annu­ make and distribute Coca- 
that they have values, such  on its namesake brand,  al savings of $500 million  Cola products, rather than  
as being environmentally  which Kent calls the “oxy­ from general and adminis­ the company selling them  
responsible, Kent said.  gen” of the company. Key  trative costs by 2011.  itself. Kent said the system  
“Consumers now value  markets like China and  Coca-Cola’s comments  allows the company to focus  
and are defining themselves  Russia have low consump­ come as the company faces  on its brands while also giv­ 
more and more by their  tion rates, meaning there  a rapidly changing industry,  ing it the benefits of scale.  
identity, their values and  will be room for Coca-Cola  as its main rival — PepsiCo  The company will be able  
their beliefs and they are  to grow. But it also plans to  Inc. — buys up its two  to keep growing if the  
insisting that companies do  have more big brands.  largest bottlers.  emerging markets it’s tar- 
the same,” said chief mar- It currently has about a  PepsiCo announced the  geting do keep growing and  
keting and commercial offi­ dozen brands worth $1 bil­ $7.8 billion deal to buy its  people have more disposable  
cer Joe Tripodi.  lion each, such as Coke Zero  bottlers over the summer,  income, said John Sicher,  
For example, the company  and Fanta, which both grew  saying the move will allow it  editor of trade publication  
plans to highlight its envi­ to that size in the last  to react more quickly to  Beverage Digest.  

Administration seeks seatbelts in buses 
Associated Press ice between cities and by the tour indus-under another. 
try. “We are committed to making sure 

WASHINGTON — The Obama admin-Other elements of the plan include: that bus travelers reach their destina­istration said Monday it will propose  Requiring devices that record when tions safely,” Transportation Secretary long-sought safety requirements for a bus is turned on or off, in an effort to Ray LaHood said in a statement. “These long-distance buses, including seatbelts prevent drivers from operating a bus improvements will not only help reduce and stronger roof standards. longer than is allowed. Driver fatigue the number of motorcoach crashes, it 
A motorcoach safety plan released by was cited as a factor in some fatal acci-will also help save lives and reduce the National Highway Traffic Safety dents. injuries.” Administration calls for developing per- Prohibiting drivers from texting, and Pete Pantuso, president and CEO of formance requirements for bus roofs limiting their use of cell phones while the American Bus Association, said bus before the end of this year and issuing a behind the wheel. Federally-sponsored operators welcome the plan as a “holis­rule by early next year on installation of research found drivers were 23 times tic approach” to safety, although he seatbelts. more likely to be involved in a crash if objected to some of its elements. 
Safety advocates have for years urged they were texting and nearly six times He said that on board devices to moni­seatbelts and stronger roofs to prevent more likely if there they were dialing a tor drivers’ hours are unnecessary passengers from being ejected in cellphone. because fatigue isn’t an issue in most rollovers.  Cracking down on bus operators accidents. He also said the government 
Motorcoaches are buses with elevated who try to evade safety rules, so-called should issue all of its new requirements passenger decks over a baggage com-chameleon carriers who shut down for bus design changes at once, rather partment. They are widely used for serv-operations under one name and reopen than parcel them out over time. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, November 17, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

Taking terrorists at their word 
In August of 1996, Osama bin Laden issued a fatwa to fellow Islamist sup­porters across the globe, declaring war against the United States. 
Five years later, Americans watched frozen in horror as the Twin Towers erupted in flames before crumbling into a heap of iron and ashes, an explosion ripped a hole in the side of the Pentagon and a hijacked passen­ger plane headed Christie toward 

Pesavento 

Washington, D.C. crashed into a Right Winging field in 
It 
Pennsylvania. 

It is now November of 2009, eight years since that tragic day in September when 2,976 innocent lives perished at the hands of nineteen Islamic fundamen­talists bent upon carrying out bin Laden’s call for the indiscriminate slaughter of Americans everywhere. Little more than a week ago, an Islamic extremist opened fire at Fort Hood in Texas, killing thirteen and wounding over two dozen others. This occurred despite the fact that the killer, Major Nidal Malik Hasan, had spoken out against the wars being fought in Afghanistan and Iraq to his colleagues, expressed sympathy for suicide bombing, called for infidels to be beheaded and have “burning oil poured down their throats” during what was supposed to be a medical presentation, and had even attempted to contact al-Qaeda prior to commit­ting the massacre. 
Red flags, anyone? Hindsight may be 20/20, but in certain situations, fore­sight is far from legally blind. 
Of course the immediate reaction by the media, along with some military officials, was not to forcefully con­demn the attack, but to hastily explain that no connection had been estab­lished between Hasan’s actions and his Muslim faith, and that the incident was likely due to job-related “stress.” In this day and age, political correct­ness must always take precedent over concern for the dead and dying, and the perpetrator is the real victim of the situation. Only Senator Joe Lieberman had the guts to call a spade a spade, labeling Hasan a “self-radi­calized, home-grown terrorist.” 
Then last Friday, Attorney General Eric Holder announced that the administration has decided to hold self-confessed 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, along with four of his fellow plotters, on trial in the United States, where they will be afforded the same constitutional rights as U.S. citizens. Yes, these terrorists will have the very same rights as citi­zens of a system they wish to destroy. 
Oh, but the trial will not be held in just any old courtroom; Mohammed and co’s trial will take place in New York’s southern district, just a half-mile away from Ground Zero. 
“We’re going to go back into New York City, the scene of the tragedy on 9/11. We’re now going to rip that wound wide open,” said an exasperat­ed Pete Hoekstra, ranking Republican on the House Armed Services Committee, on CBS News. “And it’s going to stay open for, what, two, three, four years as we go through the circus of a trial … ” 
Sen. Lieberman also criticized Holder’s announcement, citing the views of over 140 family members of 9/11 victims. “It is inconceivable that we would bring these alleged terror­ists back to New York for trial, to the scene of the carnage they created eight years ago, and give them a plat­form to mock the suffering of their vic­tims and the victims’ families, and rally their followers to continue wag­ing jihad against America.” 
It is as if some in our country, including the president and attorney general, are experiencing a collective onset of amnesia. If there was one les­son to be learned from 9/11, it was that international terrorism cannot be fought as though it were a crime. Treating it as such facilitated the secu­rity failures that enabled the attacks to occur. And yet the Obama adminis­tration insists upon slapping every individual who lost someone dear on September 11th in the face by treating the perpetrators as common criminals. 
The terrorists who attacked us on 9/11 and continue to plot further attacks are not citizens of this country; they are enemies of it. Moreover, their attacks are an act of war, as noted by bin Laden’s 1996 fatwa. Al-Qaeda may not wear uniforms or swear an oath of allegiance to a state, but to classify them as something closer to American citizens than to war criminals that should be tried in military tribunals is patently absurd. 
The president, for all his talk of treating people of all faiths, including Muslims, with respect, refuses to take them at their word. If bin Laden had issued his “Declaration of War Against Americans Occupying the Land of the Two Holy Places” today, Obama would probably give him a condescending pat on the head before continuing the real war against those anti-American, racist, tea-party Nazis and other right-wing extremist groups here at home. His administration sees more reason to fear alarmist threats of global warming than the real enemy at our doorstep. 
What will it take for this nation, and particularly our leaders, to wake up and realize that we are still facing an existential threat from terrorists and should take their words and actions seriously? Apparently 3,000 dead Americans was not enough. We still insist upon shielding home-grown ter­rorists because we fear accusations of racism and religious insensitivity more than the loss of innocent life, and we bring terrorist masterminds to the United States for trial in civilian court because we care more for their alleged rights than the rights of the people they have killed and plan to kill. 
It is time we set our priorities straight and take the threat of terror­ism seriously, if not for the honor of the victims, than for the lives of all future generations of Americans. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Ashley Charnley Matt Gamber What are you looking forward to most Alicia Smith Eric Prister in the next two weeks? 

Tess Civantos Allan Joseph 
Graphics Scene 

Thanksgiving 
“The trees that are slow to grow 
Blair Chemidlin Joey Kuhn New Moon 

bear the best fruit.” 
Viewpoint 

Last home football game Lauren 
Moliere

Other Brauweiler 
French actor & comic dramatist 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 17, 2009 page 9 
A Notre Dame short story 
Part 8 by Rosemary Kelly 
Frederick gasped aloud and then stifled his reaction quickly. He could see the mountain clearly, but it was imperative this councilman remain unaware, that he did not discover his secret. For, Frederick had seen the Other World. He had spoken to an Undesirable, and was now convinced that his entire Mieux Training had been based in untruths. The council had hidden this from all of them, and it was still hiding things … 
The man suddenly spoke. “Why don’t we stop for the night, lad? Right, then I’ll gather some kindle and you get the water.” He left the clearing quickly, his jacket flap­ping behind him. 
After a minute Frederick tore his gaze from the heavenly peak and wandered from the clearing, following the sounds of water nearby. A river suddenly opened itself up before him and he sat on the bank, tossing stones into the water while he mused. He didn’t noticed anything strange until a small clattering sound drew his attention downward, and he saw the very stone that he had thrown moments before suddenly sitting again at his feet. Confused, he held it in his palm. It was indeed the same stone. Hurriedly, he rose, just as a second stone was deposited gently near him. Another followed, then another. He looked out over the water and was shocked to see the stones he had tossed reappearing on the water and being borne back towards him. What was happening? The river looked normal; did he dare touch it? He crept forward, intrigued, fearful, and met the water with the edge of his bare toe. Nothing, and yet ... without warning he was totally consumed by a fierce joy, a raging passion for life. He desired to plunge directly into the river, to express his rapture, to expend himself completely without cause. Frederick raised his arms, poised to vault from the bank, but suddenly out of the brush behind burst the councilman with a contingent of sol­diers. “Seize the boy!” the man yelled. “He has Disobeyed!” Frederick dived. 

Part 9 by Douglas Schuda 
Bewildered and exhausted, Frederick washed ashore. To his astonishment, he found himself at the feet of the Undesirable he had met so long ago, whose kind eyes now burned with fear. “Come, Frederick! We must go! We’re run­ning out of time!” As he ran, Frederick soon found that the river had mysteriously given him a renewed vigor, and as he bounded after the Undesirable, he learned that his déjà vu had not merely been fanta­sy … 
The Undesirable proclaimed that Frederick was in the mythical region known as Imaginationland, and it was in grave peril! The walls he broke through must have been its sacred gate! Frederick learned of the Stone of Imaginationing, and how the councilman planned to use it to invade Notre Dame through the secret tunnels. Aragorn McCloud was not merely a dream: he was the only Creator to enter Imaginationland before Frederick, and he had been eliminated by the councilman. 
They were soon at the base of the moun­tain, where Frederick knew he must gain possession of the Stone. Just before his climb, the Undesirable warned him of the great beast within. As he climbed, Frederick remembered everything. He knew what he had to do: he had to con­quer the great beast, ManBearPig, and take the stone far away from the council­man. The survival of Imaginationland, Notre Dame, and Al Gore depended on it! 
Want to write the next paragraph to the story? Submit your paragraph to NDLFshortstory@gmail.com before 4 
p.m. Limit of 200 words. Title it Part Eight. This story will continue until Nov. 
16. If your paragraph is selected, it will be published in Viewpoint and you will get to read it at the NDLF panel discus­sion Nov. 19. The visiting authors will write the ending paragraphs. Take advantage of the opportunity to write a story along with three New York Times bestselling authors! 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Long-term approach 
Once again, talk in the ND community is replete with the question: “Do we fire Devine, Faust, Davie, Willingham or Weis?” What has often prevailed in the past is the short-term “Blame the coach and find the next Rockne” solution, often car­ried out in a way that comes across to the general public as panic. 
My standpoint is as an alum who has lived out East for 25 years, and who has known parents whose children were recruited by Notre Dame but chose to play at other colleges. 
The high school seniors of today can’t remember the 1993 run for the title. More importantly, they tend to want to play in a BCS conference. 
I doubt that Notre Dame will improve in the long-term by firing Coach Weis. The University’s decision should not be “Weis or Coach X.” It should be “Big Ten or Big East.” 
Brian Reimer 
alum class of 1982 Nov. 16 
Stay classy, ND 
This past weekend I attended the Notre Dame-Pitt game at Heinz Field. Despite the loss and the relatively poor performance that our team exhibited on the field, I came out of that game prouder than ever to be a member of the Notre Dame community. I don’t think I have ever heard that many four letter words in my life, especially those directed to people who were quite obviously not Notre Dame students. The worst part is the Pitt insults were not even creative; their student section had only two chants throughout the entire game — “Let’s go Pitt” and (more often) “F**k the Irish.” 
As the Connecticut game comes around we have a team coming in that has dealt with a major tragedy this season. Normally I think that articles like this, chastising stu­dents for saying things like “suck” and “kill” are dumb (especially when many of us have been to games in places like Michigan, Michigan State, Purdue, or Pitt where you’re more likely to hear someone say “F**k you” than anything else), but due to the circumstances, I think it would be inap­propriate to do the kill chant. We have the best fans in the country; we ought to show that we will not sink to the levels of our rivals. We are ND! 
Jonathan Jasinski 
junior Stanford Nov. 16 

Slumbering echoes 
After Notre Dame’s recent losses to Navy and Pitt, I have done a lot of thinking. I then came to the realization that something is terribly wrong with the Irish football team. However, since everybody has his or her own opinion on what needs to be changed, I will be as vague as humanly possible so nobody can tell me that I’m wrong. In fact, I’m going to format my rant as a mad-lib. Okay, here it goes: 
*Insert major flaw of Notre Dame football here* has been an issue for far too long and I am livid! It cost us games at *Insert recent heartbreaking loss that shouldn’t have hap­pened* and at *Insert other recent heart­breaking loss that shouldn’t have happened.* People of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, I think it is time to show that we have had enough! I propose that we *insert random, and most likely detrimental, change to football team* and we need to fire *Insert random person affiliated with football team* and *other ran­dom person affiliated with football team* immediately! 

There you go, my rant on Notre Dame foot­ball. If you want to do your own rant, just fill out this viewpoint letter as a mad-lib. Try it with your friends! 
Kevin Eller 
sophomore 
Stanford 
Nov. 16 

More importantly, be loud 
In response to Lizzie Laughman (“Be classy, respectful,” Nov. 14), I would like to make my own request of all Notre Dame fans. I’ll start with the following disclaimer. In no way is the “kill” chant related to Jasper Howard, and I guarantee that the UConn players, should they even hear the chant, wouldn’t make that connection. Howard’s death was tragic, but considering the context of the chant, that we are fans cheering on our team, I don’t see how shouting “kill” would dishonor his memory. However, though I disagree with the self-important, politically correct, “We are ND; we’re better than everyone else,” attitude that seems to motivate Lizzie’s call to not perform the chant, I see a way to reconcile her motives with a desire to make Notre Dame Stadium a more intimidating environ­ment for our opponents. 

Instead of chanting “kill,” just yell. You don’t have to be saying anything. Continuous and intense noise flowing from your pie-hole from the time our opponents begin to huddle until the ball is snapped is sufficient. Having spent two years at the University of Florida, I can’t stand how quiet our stadium is. Sure, “be classy,” show our opponents respect, but recognize that these ideals are not incompatible with cre­ating a hostile atmosphere for our oppo­nents and a competitive advantage for our team. 
Brandon Lewis 
junior Morrissey Nov. 16 
The facts 
You cannot be pro-life and pro-choice at the same time. I understand that abortion is a difficult issue, but you stand on one side of the fence or the other. While women do not take abortion lightly, easy access to abortion has caused the rate of repeat abortions to sky rocket. 
“According to the APS, 48 percent of women in 2000-2001 were obtaining repeat abortions, including 29 percent who were seeking their second abortion, 12 percent seeking their third abortion and 7 percent seeking their fourth or higher order abortion.” 
In addition, children are expensive, but abortions are as well. 
“In 2001, the average charge for a surgical abortion at 10 weeks’ gestation was $468; but since most abortions in the United States are performed at low-cost clinics, women on aver­age paid $372 for the procedure.” 
“Some 74 percent of women pay for abortions with their own money; 13 percent of abortions are covered by Medicaid, and 13 percent are billed directly to private insurance. Some women who pay for the procedure themselves may receive insurance reimbursement later.” 
All of these quotes are from the Guttmacher Institute, Planned Parenthood’s research group. 
A woman who decides to keep her child has several resources available to her free. The Women’s Care Center in South Bend has several free services, as do many other groups around the nation. Care Net and Birthright are just two of many groups that offer free pregnancy tests, counseling and other services. 
The desire to adopt a healthy infant in the U.S. has exceeded the number of available infants. If a woman does not want to kill her child, she has options. There are free services to support her during pregnancy, and people desperate for children. 
Unplanned pregnancy is difficult in every situation, however abortion is not the only way out if one is not financially stable. Adoption is a beautiful option and free care for women during pregnancy is readily available. 
Adoption is the pro-life option, the pro-choice is abortion. Once it’s a baby, there cannot be a choice. 
Anne Christine Barbera 
senior off campus Nov. 15 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Tuesday, November 17, 2009 
By DECLAN SULLIVAN and MIKE BARTLETT 
Scene Writers 
Two weeks ago, a pair of Scene writers interviewed the music duo Shwayze in promotion of their new album “Let It Beat.” The half of the interview involv­ing producer Cisco Adler appeared last week. This is the (printable) portion of the conversation that tran­spired between Scene writers Mike Bartlett and Declan Sullivan and rapper Aaron Smith, a.k.a. Shwayze. 
Mike Bartlett: So, do you have a favorite song to perform or a favorite place to perform at? 
Shwayze: “Get U Home” is really fun now ‘cause it’s a crazy, upbeat track that gets everyone hyped up. You know, like a rock ‘n’ roll show where everyone is jumping up and down. 
MB: Yeah, definitely. I’ve listened to the whole new album and I like it a lot. I like “Daze Like This” a lot. That’s a good song. 
S: 
Ah, good, man. Yeah, we were just at home for two months, and we knocked [the album] out. But yeah, “Daze Like This” is dope. 

MB: Yeah man, but living in Malibu — that’s the life. 

S: 
Oh yeah, exactly. Have you guys ever been out to Malibu? 


MB: Yeah, I went out and visited Pepperdine for a week. It’s heaven; it can’t get any better. 
S: Yeah, it’s a good spot. 
Declan Sullivan: Did you grow up in Malibu, or did you move there? 
S: 
I moved there when I was 5, so I basically grew up there. I was born in Santa Monica, and I lived in Florida for a year or two when I was a little baby. 

MB: Do you think growing up in Malibu has had a big effect on your music? Does it inspire you to write what you do? 

S: 
Yeah, of course — you’re a product of your envi­ronment. The first record really only showed one of our sides, but in this new record we really show all of our sides. It all kind of got thrown in the pot, you know what I mean? 

DS: Yeah, definitely. MB: How was working with Snoop Dogg on “Livin’ It Up?” Was it insane? 

S: 
I mean, it was definitely a dream come true. I’ve always imagined working with Snoop, so the fact that we actually got to do it was dope. Unfortunately, the way we did it was that we sent him the track, and he sent it back, so we didn’t actually get to work with 




him in the studio. But he’s a homie, he loved being on the track, and he killed it. He took it to the next level. 
MB: Yeah, definitely, that’s awesome. But I bet when you actually work with people in the studio, you get to build a lot off of them and learn new stuff. 
S: 
Yeah. But that song was already done, and then we were like, “Dude, let’s get Snoop on this!” But yeah, we definitely have to work with him in the future. 

DS: Is there anyone you really want to work with that you haven’t yet? 

S: 
Definitely. There are a lot of people I’d like to work with. 


DS: Well, if you could pick one person or group to collaborate with, who would it be? 
S: Living or dead? DS and MB: Living or dead. 
S: 
Well, I just saw “This Is It” this week, so I’d have to say Michael Jackson. I mean, he has all that great music, and he wrote all his own [music]. I’d love to work with him. 

MB: Okay, here’s your chance to be a movie critic: Is it worth going to see? 

S: 
I think so. If you love Michael Jackson, you’ll like the movie. It’s a go. 

DS: You’re doing that Party Rock Tour right now; what’s it like being on stage with LMFAO? 

S: 
They’re dope. They’re our friends from way before. Sky Blu and I went to high school together. We used to rap together all the time, and then just five, six years fast forward and we’re both on tour together. It’s very surreal. 


MB: When I’m hanging out with my friends some­times we try to rap, all in good fun. 
S: Rapping just changes the way you look at things. 
MB: Yeah. Actually, when we talked to Cisco, he told us to look up Chris Young the Rapper, whose freestyles are pretty ill. Is he fun to work with? 
S: 
Yeah — actually, just the other day, we were in the car rolling around, freestyling. I love that. He’s a genius freestyler. Download some of his stuff. He’s going to blow up. 

MB: Anybody else who’s coming up? 

S: 
Beardo is coming up, everyone on Banana Beat … oh, and LMFAO. This tour we’re about to do is going to be out of control. Are we coming to your city? 


MB: No! We talked to Cisco about this. You’re going to Des Moines, Iowa, but not to South Bend. DS: Yeah, talk about a slap in the face! 
S: Oh, wow. (Laughs.) How far of a drive is it? MB: From Malibu to ND? DS: It might be a bit. (Laughs.) 
S: No, from you guys to Des Moines. I think we’re going to Chicago, too. 
DS: Yeah, on Nov. 22. We’ll definitely try to get out there and see you. One last question before you go. Who is your favorite band or singer alive right now? 
S: I love Andre 3000 from Outkast. Also the Red Hot 
Chili Peppers. They’re my favorite band. DS and MB: Well, thanks for talking to us. 
S: No problem; it’s been great talking to you guys. Maybe I’ll see you in Chicago. 
Contact Declan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu and Mike Bartlett at mbartle1@nd.edu 


By SZYMON RYZNER 
Scene Writer 
After selling more than four million copies of her first album “The Fame,” Lady Gaga will release an additional eight tracks on a re-release of the extremely successful album. The newly expanded album, entitled “The Fame Monster,” will be available tomorrow. 
Lady Gaga, who received much criti­cal acclaim for her first effort, has quickly become one of the more inter­esting celebrities to watch. Her outfits range from plastic bubbles to a mole-cule-like silver gyroscope to a lacy red crown that entirely covers her face to a “dress” made of quite a few Kermit the Frogs sown together. As far as insane (or, perhaps, insanely entertaining) behavior goes, Lady Gaga received some attention for her bloody perform­ance at the MTV Video Music Awards, but Kanye West’s interruption of the young Taylor Swift topped the Twitter world. 
Lady Gaga claims inspiration from David Bowie, and like Bowie, she has blurred the gender line. Rumors that she is a hermaphrodite abound, 


although her scantily clad outings seem 
to prove otherwise. The singer actually 
takes her name from the song 
“Radio Ga Ga,” by anoth­
er of her idols, Queen. 
Beyond her catchy 
dance music, Lady 
Gaga has an 
opportunity to 
become as big 
as some of 
her pop 
predeces­
sors. In addi­
tion to put­
ting on spec­
tacular live 
performanc­
es, Lady 
Gaga has 
moved into 
crafting 
amazingly 
absurd and 
visually stun­
ning music 

videos. Each of her videos seems to be 
deliberately more ridiculous and more 
impressive than the last. The most 
recent, “Bad Romance,” makes puns out of Hitchcock, sets a gold-chinned man on fire and, on occasion, makes 
Gaga look normal. 
“The Fame Monster” will be an album about Gaga’s greatest fears and a depic­tion of fame from one who has experienced an extreme surge of it. Through all of the craziness, though, Lady Gaga claims that she never forgets her fans. “The Fame Monster” will be affordable, at least according to Gaga, and it should be considered a standalone album. Nevertheless, it will be sold along with the original “The Fame” in order to provide maximum access to Gaga. For those seeking an almost disturbing 
amount of interaction with the star, the deluxe version will apparently contain a lock of hair from one of her many wigs. 
Lady Gaga wrote “The Fame Monster” while watching fashion shows on mute, and she believes that it will be an ideal soundtrack for such events. This, in fact, is one of the greatest things about Gaga: despite all the mad­ness surrounding her and her behavior, she writes her own music. By the age of four, she was playing the piano by ear, and her entire life to this point seems to have been influenced by and lived through music. Working in various bur­lesque shows after attending both a Catholic school and the Tisch School of Arts, she doggedly pursued a career in music. She ended up writing for many well-known artists, including Fergie, Britney Spears and Akon, who ultimate­ly signed her. 
For her entire life, Lady Gaga has pursued this musical career, and now that she has found success her voice will finally be heard. Let’s hope she has something worthwhile to say. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, November 17, 2009 page 11 


ing results. 
Several striking symbols have been introduced into the show, none more notable than the clear allusion to the Twin Towers on the outskirts of the vil­lage. The intrigue and mystery of the show is heavy-handed and deliberate, with none of the campiness and humor of the original. What is missing is a clear plot: Why was Number 6 kid­napped? No one, including Number 2, seems to know the answer to this ques­tion. Without that, it’s hard even to tell whose side we’re on. 
The art and excellence of “The Prisoner” is lost in a post-9/11 world. Questions of personal liberty and free­dom have become muddled with para­noia about both the government and society at large. Instead of focusing on this conflict, “The Prisoner” has moved on to relationships and pseudo-mean­ingful statements. In a world already confused enough by “Lost,” “The Prisoner” will struggle to find an audi­ence. It is too symbolic and confusing to be a straight drama, but it is not writ­ten well enough to stand as a mystery. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 


sweetness. stir. 
By ELIZABETH CHATEN 

Spread a bit of cream cheese, strawberry jam, and Add a scoop or two of rice Chex cereal. Grab 
Scene Writer 

a light layer of pudding (chocolate or vanilla) on the another bowl and place on top. Shake, just as you wrap. would toss a salad, till coated evenly. 
Welsh Family Hall recently opened a homemade Drizzle half of the wrap with strawberry sauce, Sprinkle on powdered sugar and toss to coat. baked goods store to rival the male dorm’s pizza located by the ice cream. Attempt to get as many Enjoy! shops. Although this innovative idea begins to tackle chunks of strawberries as you can! the problem of unappetizing dinning hall desserts, I Grab a banana and cut into slices. Place on the Bananas Foster contend that with a little creativity, anyone can cre-same half as the strawberry sauce. Paul Blangé, the chef at Brennan’s, a famous ate saccharine sweets in our dining halls. This Fold crepe in half and grill lightly on the panini French Quarter New Orleans restaurant, created week’s dish presents a few ideas for some decadent maker for about 10 seconds — just enough to warm this dessert in 1951. The name Foster was added to desserts. Channel your inner Paula Dean and start it up a bit, but not so much that it’s charred. the dessert in reference to Stephen Foster, a local cooking! Top with a dusting of powdered sugar and a driz-business owner and a frequent patron at Brennan’s 
zle of chocolate sauce. Serve with whipped cream restaurant. Strawberry-Banana Crepe or ice cream, if desired. 
Crepes were first created in Brittany, a region in If in SDH, add about a tablespoon or so of melted the northwest of France. This dish attempts to Puppy Chow butter into a bowl. If in NDH, melt some butter in recreate the elegance of this sophisticated dessert in This nostalgic sweet is surprisingly simple to make the microwave. our dining halls. It may seem like a lot of steps, but in the dining hall! Fun and whimsical, your friends Add sliced bananas to the bowl. Stir to coat. it’s entirely worth the effort. After tasting this one, I will be stealing this sweet off of your tray. Shake a generous portion of cinnamon sugar on encourage you to try out different fillings, particular-top. Microwave for about 20 to 30 seconds. ly the various fruits in the waffle section. If you are in SDH, pour peanut butter sauce and Serve over a scoop of vanilla ice cream. Top with 
chocolate syrup in a bowl. If you are in NDH, add caramel or nuts, if desired. Start with a white or honey wheat wrap. Optional: mini chocolate chips, a scoop of peanut butter, and a brush honey butter all over the wrap, for added dab of butter to a bowl. Microwave until melted and Contact Elizabeth Chaten at echaten1@nd.edu 

Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 17, 2009 
MLB 

Coghlan, Bailey named Rookies of the Year 
Marlins’ left fielder hit .321 and scored 84 times; Athletics’ closer named to All-Star team, finished with 26 saves 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Florida Marlins left fielder Chris Coghlan won the National League Rookie of the Year award in a close vote Monday, and Oakland Athletics closer Andrew Bailey took the AL honor. 
Coghlan edged Philadelphia Phillies pitcher J.A. Happ, receiv­ing 17 first-place votes and 105 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. Happ, the only player picked on all 32 ballots, had 10 first-place votes and 94 points. 
“It’s very exciting,” Coghlan said. “I couldn’t have written it better.” 
Bailey, a surprise All-Star this season, was selected first on 13 of 28 ballots and finished with 88 points. Texas shortstop Elvis Andrus was the runner-up with 65 points, one more than Detroit pitcher Rick Porcello. 
Bailey, who had 26 saves and a 
1.84 ERA, was driving when he got word on his cell phone that he won. 
“At first I thought it was a prank call. Which one of my friends is playing a prank on me?” he said. “I didn’t want to take my eyes off the road.” 
Once he realized the news was legit, Bailey passed it along to his family. 
“My mom was crying and my dad was stoked,” he said. 
Coghlan dug himself out of an early slump and had a superb sec­ond half. Emerging as pesky lead-off hitter for the Marlins, he batted .321 with nine homers and 31 doubles in 128 games. He scored 84 runs and drove in 47. 
Called up from the minors in May, the 24-year-old Coghlan topped NL rookies in batting aver­age, runs, hits (162), total bases 
(232) and on-base percentage (.390). He became the third Florida player to win the award, joining shortstop Hanley Ramirez (2006) and pitcher Dontrelle Willis (2003). 
“At the end of the year I knew that I put myself in a good position to win,” Coghlan said. 
A second baseman in the minors, Coghlan was with Triple-A New Orleans this year when the Marlins told him they wanted to try him in the outfield. 
He played one minor league game in left — without getting a fly ball — and then was brought up to the majors. He finished the season with five errors. 
“A lot of people think I’m pretty bad out there. But I think it’s an adjustment,” Coghlan said. “I have confidence playing the outfield. It was a situation I embraced to get me to the big leagues the quickest and to help the team win games.” 
Happ’s versatility was a huge plus for the Phillies, who won their second consecutive NL pennant before losing to the New York Yankees in the World Series. 
The left-hander went 12-4 with a 2.93 ERA in 35 games, including 23 starts. He led NL rookies in innings (166), strikeouts (119) and complete games (three). 
Atlanta pitcher Tommy Hanson finished third in a competitive field with two first-place votes and 37 points. Pittsburgh outfielder Andrew McCutchen, who came in fourth, also was chosen first on a pair of ballots. Milwaukee infielder Casey McGehee received the other first-place vote. 
“When you get up there’s so many different aspects to the game. ... It takes a while to get comfortable in a routine,” Coghlan said. “In the second half, things turned around and it all ended well. In the beginning it wasn’t as easy as it was at the end of the year.” 

Bailey went 6-3 and had 24 more saves than any other AL rookie. He also led the league’s rookie pitchers in ERA. 
He is the eighth A’s player to win the award, tying the New York Yankees for most in the AL. 
“I can’t feel disappointed,” Andrus said. “Andrew Bailey is a great player, He had a great sea­son, too.” 
Bailey was struggling as a starter in Double-A last year when the A’s moved him to the bullpen. Turned out to be a terrific decision. 
In his first big league camp, Bailey made the Oakland roster and soon got an opportunity to close partly due to injuries. He took advantage of it, earning a trip to the All-Star game in July as the team’s lone representative. 
The 25-year-old right-hander struck out 91 and walked 24 in 83 1-3 innings. He yielded only 47 hits, holding opponents to a .167 batting average. 
“Certainly the first credit goes to Andrew. It’s also a credit to our staff and the people who saw the change to the bullpen being a good step,” general manager Billy Beane said. “He had always been a prospect, but as a starter he hit a wall. There was a suggestion to move him to the bullpen and he hasn’t looked back. Since he made the switch to the ‘pen he’s been dominant.” 
NBA 

Jackson dealt to Charlotte for Bell, Radmonovic 
who acknowledged since the “No matter what Stephen Orlando on Monday, where the 2004.
Associated Press 

season began the team would might say to me when I take Bobcats were to play the Magic. He’s been upset with the 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — The try to trade him. him out, I’ve heard it before,” The 6-foot-8 Jackson gives Warriors since their decline Golden State Warriors found a “We can get back to playing Brown said. “As long as they Charlotte, the NBA’s lowest-after he helped lead them to the home for the disgruntled swing-basketball,” Larry Riley said care and as long as they want scoring team at 82.4 points a second round of the 2007 play-man Stephen Jackson on after his first major move since to get better and are good game, an immediate offensive offs. The NBA fined him Monday, sending him to the becoming the Warriors’ general teammates, I’m OK.” boost. He’s averaging 16.6 $25,000 when he went public Charlotte Bobcats in a four-manager. “Our players had With managing partner points in nine games this sea-with his trade demands in player deal that pairs him with done a great job doing every-Michael Jordan signing off on son, after averaging 20.7 points August. He then got into a spat coach Larry Brown. thing they could to play through the deal, Charlotte takes on and 6.5 assists last season. with Nelson during an exhibi-
The Bobcats sent shooting this and not let it be a major Jackson’s contract, which has “He can create a shot for him-tion game last month, leading to guard Raja Bell and forward distraction. We felt we needed three years and $28 million left self, which is something that we a two-game suspension that Vladimir Radmanovic to the to do this and move on.” after this season. Golden State desperately need,” Brown said. cost him about $139,000 in Warriors for Jackson and guard Now Brown, the Hall of inherits Radmanovic’s deal, But the 31-year-old Jackson salary. He also relinquished his Acie Law. Famer who has coached worth about $13.5 million over also brings plenty of baggage, captain title. 
The deal gave Jackson his numerous difficult players, this season and next. Bell and dating to when he was suspend-“People’s past are indeed wish: a ticket out of town after including Allen Iverson, will get Law are in the final year of ed for going into the stands in that,” Bobcats GM Rod Higgins his difficult relationship with a crack at the talented and their contracts. Auburn Hills, Mich., in the infa-said. “Our relationship with him Warriors coach Don Nelson, polarizing Jackson. Jackson was en route to mous Pacers-Pistons brawl in is going to start today.” 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
If you or someone you care about  Ivy Residential condo available  VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade  
PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit  WANTED  FOR RENT  Dec.09-May 2010. Call 607-221­5843.  FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964.  
Notre Dame's website:  ———————————————  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has  http://csap.nd.edu  PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­ 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9  andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES  PERSONAL  
many resources in place to assist  ———————————————  tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835  MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME.  
you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at  Considering Adoption? ND Alums Hoping to Adopt. If you are an  . ———————————————  $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST @269-357-6979.  TICKETS  My father used to say: "The first time someone calls you a horse you punch him on the nose, the second  
1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For  expectant mother searching for a  Part time help needed at UP Mall.  ———————————————  time someone calls you a horse you  
more information, visit ND's website  family, please see our website at  Must be good with kids and have  522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student  call him a jerk but the third time  
at:  http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­ clean driving record! Email resume  Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage  HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will  someone calls you a horse, well  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  file.net.  and days available to: northcoas­ Washer/dryer. 5 blks W. off ND Ave.  pay top $$. 574-251-1570  then perhaps it's time to go shop- 
trr@gmail.com  $580/mo+utl (219)629-5483  ping for a saddle."  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, November 17, 2009 
page 13 
NCAA Football Associated Press Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 3 3 Texas 2 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Georgia Tech 7 8 Pittsburgh 8 9 Ohio State 10 10LSU 9 11 Oregon 14 12 Oklahoma State 17 13 Penn State 19 14 Stanford 25 15 Iowa 15 16 Virginia Tech 20 17 Wisconsin 21 18 Clemson 24 19 Brigham Young 22 20 Oregon State NR 21 Miami (Fla.) 12 22 USC 11 23 Utah 16 24 Houston 13 25 Rutgers NR 
NCAA Men’s Football USA Today Coaches’ Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas 2 3 Alabama 3 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Georgia Tech 7 8 Ohio State 8 9 Pittsburgh 9 10 Louisiana State 11 11 Oregon 16 12 Penn State 17 13 Oklahoma State 18 14 Wisconsin 20 15 Iowa 13 16 Virginia Tech 21 17 Stanford NR 18 Brigham Young 22 19 Clemson NR 20 Oregon State NR 21 Southern California 10 22 Houston 12 23 Utah 14 24 Miami (Fla.) 15 25 Nebraska NR 



around the dial 
NHL 
Capitals at Rangers 7 p.m., Versus 
NCAA Basketball 
Memphis at Kansas 10 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Bengals interested in Larry Johnson 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI — Larry Johnson might get to revive his troubled career with a team known for giving sec­ond chances. 
Bengals coach Marvin Lewis said on Monday that Johnson would be in Cincinnati to discuss a limited role — fourth-string running back, essentially an insur­ance policy in case Cedric Benson’s hip injury gets worse or another running back gets hurt. 
It’s a very low-profile role. 
“That’s what his role would be, it would be as a fourth running back and an oppor­tunity as a backup player on this football team doing all the things backup players do, and that’s work their tails off in the kicking game and showing looks (on the scout team) and so forth that way,” Lewis said. “And then he would be an insurance policy if something would happen down the line to one of our guys where he’d have a chance to be active. 
“But I couldn’t foresee him being active when he was ini­tially here, if this is what hap­pens. And that’s what I’ve told him.” 
Lewis said the interest in Johnson is unrelated to Benson’s injury. Benson, who is one of the NFL’s top run­ning backs, strained a hip muscle and couldn’t finish an 18-12 win in Pittsburgh on Sunday that left the Bengals (7-2) in control of the AFC North. 
Benson is expected to prac­tice on a limited basis this week. Lewis said there’s a chance he could play Sunday in Oakland. 
Johnson turns 30 on Thursday and is coming off several years of decline. He also created controversies while with the Kansas City Chiefs, who released him last week on the day he was due back from his second suspen­sion in the last 12 months. 
The Bengals have a history of giving extra chances to troubled players. Owner Mike Brown brought Chris Henry back to the team before the 2008 season — over Lewis’ disagreement — and the receiver has stayed out of trouble since then. 
Henry is out for the rest of the season with a broken left arm. 
Benson was signed last year after the Bears let him go because of his off-field problems. He had two alco­hol-related arrests in Texas, but the cases were dropped when grand juries declined to indict. Benson has revital­ized his career in Cincinnati 
— he ranks sixth in the league in rushing with 859 yards and leads the NFL with 205 carries. 
Lewis assured Benson that the interest in Johnson would have no effect on his status as the primary runner. Lewis said he first spoke with Johnson by phone last Thursday, before Benson’s injury. 
IN BRIEF 

Gruden signs contract extension with ESPN 
BRISTOL, Conn. — Jon Gruden has agreed to a multiyear contract to stay at ESPN, suggesting he won’t be returning to coaching anytime soon. 
The Super Bowl-winning coach’s name was bound to come up about any job openings after this season. He was fired by the Buccaneers in January, then joined ESPN as a “Monday Night Football” analyst. 
The network said Monday that Gruden has “made a commitment to remain with ESPN.” 
Gruden led Tampa Bay to a Super Bowl title after the 2002 season. 
Under the new deal, he will appear on ESPN’s NFL Draft and Super Bowl week coverage and will call the 2010 Pro Bowl. Gruden will serve as an analyst for ESPN Radio’s 2010 Rose Bowl and BCS title game broadcasts. 
Kiffin dismisses players charged in robbery 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Two of three Tennessee freshmen football players charged last week in an attempted armed robbery have been dismissed from the team. 
“Clearly, their actions have no place in our program,” coach Lane Kiffin said Monday. 
Kiffin said wide receiver Nu’Keese Richardson, 18, and defensive back Mike Edwards, 18, were permanent­ly dismissed from the team, while former starting safety Janzen Jackson, 18, will continue to be barred from team activities while Kiffin awaits more information in his case. 
Richardson was the player whose recruitment first got Kiffin in trouble with the Southeastern Conference. Kiffin joked in February that Florida coach Urban Meyer cheated in trying to keep Richardson as a Gator, earn­ing Kiffin a reprimand from the SEC. 
Allen Iverson parts ways with Grizzlies 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. — The Allen Iverson experiment with the Memphis Grizzlies is over. 
Memphis announced Monday that the team has ended its one-year contract with the 10-time All-Star and former league MVP in what it called a mutual agreement. Iverson began an indefinite leave of absence on Nov. 7 to deal with a personal issue after playing only three games with the Grizzlies, all in California. 
“Because of personal matters that forced him to leave the team on November 7, Allen will step away from the game at this time, allowing him to focus on those matters,” general manag­er Chris Wallace said in a statement. “As a result, we will be ending our contractu­al agreement with Allen, which will allow both parties to move forward. We wish Allen the best.” 
The Grizzlies will waive Iverson but the team had not done that as of Monday night. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 17, 2009 
NFL 
Westbrook, running backs suffer injuries 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Brian Westbrook has always come back from a long list of injuries throughout his career. 
Now another concussion could stop him cold. 
Westbrook’s status is uncer­tain after the former All-Pro running back sustained his second concussion in three weeks in Philadelphia’s 31-23 loss at San Diego on Sunday. 
Westbrook was playing his first game after sitting out two because of a concussion suf­fered Oct. 26. He was injured in the third quarter on a screen play in which he was caught between a block by Eagles receiver Jason Avant and Chargers safety Eric Weddle. 
Eagles coach Andy Reid said the team will take precautions with Westbrook and it’s too early to tell when Westbrook will return, if at all. 
“Football right now for Brian Westbrook is not the important thing,” Reid said Monday. “It’s making sure that we get him analyzed, tested and taken care of and then we’ll go from there. Not that we didn’t do that before. 
“We took every precaution­ary measure that we could before and it happened again. Obviously we’re going to check with experts and make sure that we listen to them like we did before. The No. 1 thing is Brian’s health. You can put football aside and make sure that he’s taken care of here.” 
Westbrook wasn’t available to reporters on Monday. His agent, Todd France, didn’t immediately return a phone message. 
The 30-year-old Westbrook sustained his first career con­cussion when he hit his head on a defender’s knee during a Monday night win at Washington last month. Westbrook briefly lost con­sciousness but walked off the field under his own power. 
He sat out Philadelphia’s vic­tory against the New York Giants on Nov. 1 and was cleared to play against Dallas last week, but was held out for precautionary reasons after experiencing headaches. Westbrook had no problems leading up to the game against the Chargers. 
“We left it up to the doctors,” Reid said. “There’s a chance he could have played the week before and we held him out of that one according to tests and symptoms. He was symptom-free and tests came back nor­mal and so on, so I did what the experts said. They felt comfortable with it and we went with it.” 
Reid wasn’t sure if a second concussion is more serious. Westbrook didn’t lose con­sciousness on this one. 
“I’ve heard a couple differ­ent things on that,” he said. “Obviously it’s not a good thing for a second one to happen. I don’t know the medical terms of it. I’ve heard them deter­mine it by if it was a mild hit as compared to a severe hit. It wasn’t a mild hit I would say.” 
The eight-year veteran has been limited this season by ankle and knee injuries and the concussions. Westbrook has carried the ball 47 times for 225 yards, an average of 
4.8 yards per carry, and has scored one touchdown. He has also caught 19 passes for 156 yards and a TD. 
Westbrook has never played a full season, having missed 16 games for a variety of injuries to his knees, ankles, ribs and triceps. 
Before last season, Westbrook signed a three-year contract worth $21 million, including $13 million guaran­teed the first two years. The Eagles have the option of not renewing his contract for 2010. 
Seahawks’ Jones likely out 
Seahawks running back Julius Jones is likely to miss at least Sunday’s game at Minnesota because of a bruised lung. 
Coach Jim Mora said Monday that what was thought to be a cracked rib sustained in the first quarter of Seattle’s loss at Arizona on Sunday is a bruised lung — “and potentially, possibly a cracked rib.” 
Doctors had Jones stay behind overnight in an Arizona hospital as a precau­tion. Jones flew back to Seattle on Monday. 
“He’s OK,” Mora said, after speaking to Jones while Seattle’s lead runner was at the airport in Phoenix. “They just took the proper precau­tions in not having him travel with that injury. 
“At this point, I would say it would be unlikely that he would be cleared to play on Sunday.” 
Jones had only two carries before getting hurt, apparently while pass blocking against Arizona’s blitzing Karlos Dansby. Justin Forsett replaced him and ran for 123 yards on just 17 carries. 
Mora said Forsett and third-stringer Louis Rankin will be getting more carries over the next few weeks, if not the final seven games. 
It may be that time of year for Seattle to try out young players, for the second season. The Seahawks are 3-6 and essentially four games out of the NFC West lead with seven games remaining since the Cardinals own the first tiebreaker. 
Dolphins’ Brown should miss Thursday 
Ronnie Brown remains on crutches 24 hours after hurt­ing his right foot. 
The Miami Dolphins’ run­ning back was hurt Sunday during his team’s 25-23 win over Tampa Bay. He’s unlikely to play Thursday at Charlotte, and he could be sidelined much longer. 
Brown would be replaced in the starting lineup by Ricky Williams, who came off the bench for his first 100-yard rushing game this season against the Buccaneers. 
Brown is the Dolphins’ lead­ing rusher with 648 yards and eight touchdowns, and he has been the triggerman on most of the team’s wildcat plays. 
Williams ran for 102 yards against the Bucs, extending his franchise record of 21 games with at least 100 yards. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles open with Anderson 
“I am expecting our
establish very early our inside team’s lone sen-“Right now we game on offense. Transition ior, had 218 team to control the are working on defense will be a big key for us points last sea-finding the right
tempo in Tuesday’s 
with Anderson.” son and 47 chemistry in our
opening game.” 
The Belles finished 17-10 (13-rebounds. rotations as we 3 MIAA) last season, and Aside from prepare for ranked third in the conference Newsom, who Jenn Henley three games this in the MIAA Coaches Pre-averaged 14.3 week.”
Belles coach 
points and was second in rebounds with 67. Beier, who returned from an injury and played in only 18 of Saint Mary’s’ games, managed 184 points and 18 rebounds in her final season. Rashid scored 134 points and was third for rebounds with 61. 
“We haven’t been 100 percent 
healthy in the 
preseason, ” 
Henley said. 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s tips off its bas­ketball season with a home opener tonight as it takes on Anderson University at 7:30 p.m. 
“I am expecting our team to control the tempo in Tuesday’s opening game,” Belles coach Jenn Henley said. “We want to Patsy Mahoney and senior for­ward Anna Kammrath. 
Wade had 128 points last sea­son and led the Belles in rebounds with 96. Murphy was second only to graduated senior Erin Newsom in points with 238 in her rookie season, including hitting 74-percent from the free-throw line. Mahoney aver­aged 9.8 points per game. Kammrath, the Although they 
lost four seniors, 
the Belles did bring in four freshmen this fall: Kayla Wolter, Annie Doyle, Amanda Stukel and Katelyn Kosinski. Also returning for Saint Mary’s are Maggie Ronan, Katie Sullivan, Jessica Centa and Grace Sadowski. 
The Belles open their season tonight at 7:30 p.m. as they the Ravens in a non-conference game. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
Season poll that was released last Thursday. Defending-league champion and No. 2 Hope College leads the confer­ence as the top team, followed closely in the poll by Calvin. 
Saint Mary’s is coming off one of its most successful seasons in recent memory, finishing in sec­ond place after losing 77-47 to Hope in the MIAA Championship. Returning for the Belles are junior guard Liz Wade — the reigning MIAA Defensive Player of the Year — sophomore forward Kelley Murphy, sophomore guard points per game and was named to the 2008-2009 All-MIAA First Team, the Belles lost three other seniors to grad­uation: Katie Rashid, Megan Conaty and Nicole Beier. 

“Anytime you lose four sen­iors in your program, you have a lot to replace,” Henley said. “Erin Newsom, Meghan Conaty, Nicole Beier and Katie Rashid provided a lot of depth for us last season. They each con­tributed in different ways that helped us be very successful.” 
Conaty, a guard, had 42 

Tuesday, November 17, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
ND CLUB SPORTS 

Squash squad loses two 
Irish sailing team fnishes 12th; Rugby eliminated from regionals 
Special to The Observer 
Squash 
A short-handed Irish squad dropped a pair of matches to Indiana, 9-0, and Northwestern, 8-1, over the weekend. 
Missing its No. 1 and No. 3 players due to ROTC obliga­tions, Notre Dame suffered several close losses in its first competition on regula­tion -sized courts. Notre Dame was also awarded a forfeit over Western Michigan, which was unable to field an entire lineup. 
The different playing con­ditions proved detrimental to the Irish, particularly in making adjustments in shot selection and court cover­age. Because national com­petition will be held on regu­lation courts, however, the Irish hope to make the expe­rience one for positive learn­ing. 
Competing for the Irish, from No. 1 through 10, were freshmen Ryan Gisriel, Kevin Sandner, Mike Bennett Thomas Dore and Eric Huang, sophomores Dennis Grabowski and Kenny Schlax, junior Kyle Maierhofer and seniors Mark Hincapie and Kristine So. Schlax posted Notre Dame’s lone win of the weekend. 
Sailing 
Notre Dame placed 12th of 17 teams at Northwestern’s Timme’s Tune-up Regatta and gained experience, as several Irish competitors were making their collegiate debuts. The A boat finished sixth and the B boat finished 16th in their respective divi­sions. 
Bowling 
The men’s squad traveled to Dayton, Ohio, for the Raider Classic, where the Irish started slow on Day 1 but rebounded for a top-25 finish on Day 2. 
In the first day of competi­tion, Notre Dame looked to build momentum but on three separate occasions was left with an unfortunate 7-10 split. The Irish claimed second-to-last place after Day 1. 
The Irish rebounded on Sunday. Bowling with Saginaw, the No. 2 seed, the Irish looked like the favorite after bowling an impressive 826 four-game Baker series. This inspired the Irish to a great day with four more solid series, resulting in a top 25 finish. Seniors CJ Kaltenbach, Chris Kieser and James Breen, sophomores Brian Frisch and Richard Skelton and freshman Armani Sutton contributed strong performances on Sunday to lead the come­back. 

The men’s and women’s squads will next compete at the Western Illinois Leatherneck Classic on Dec. 5-6. 
Men’s Rugby 
The Irish concluded their first-semester competition by dropping the semifinal of the Midwest Regionals to Indiana, 37-27. The Hoosiers advanced to the finals take 
on Bowling Green, which beat Ohio State. 
Men’s Volleyball 
Notre Dame opened its season on the road Saturday by winning three of four. The Irish took down Michigan, Michigan State and Cincinnati while falling to Northern Illinois. Notre Dame lost to Illinois Sunday to finish the tournament in ninth. 
NFL 
Titans’ owner fined by league for lewd gesture 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — The NFL has fined Titans owner Bud Adams $250,000 for mak­ing an obscene gesture at Buffalo fans while celebrating Tennessee’s victory over the Bills. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell notified Adams of the fine Monday, and league spokesman Greg Aiello said it is for conduct detrimental to the NFL. Adams was seen making the gesture while in his luxury suite and again on the field after Sunday’s 41-17 victory. 
The 86-year-old Adams issued an apology a couple of hours later, saying he got caught up in the excitement of the moment. 
Goodell was at the game, after having breakfast with Adams. The league said that Goodell left Adams’ suite at the end of the third quarter and spent the fourth quarter sitting with fans in the end zone before leaving the stadi­um. 
The Titans declined to com­ment after the fine was issued. But Adams said in his earlier statement that he expected league discipline for his actions and would accept any punishment. 
“I do realize that those types of things shouldn’t happen,” Adams said in that statement. “I need to specifically apolo­gize to the Bills, their fans, our fans and the NFL. I obviously have a great deal of respect for Ralph Wilson and the his­tory we have shared.” 
Adams and Wilson were original owners in the American Football League, and Sunday’s matchup was a legacy game with both teams wearing throwback uniforms. Wilson was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame this year, and the two franchises have been involved in some emotional playoff games. 
The Bills staged the greatest comeback in NFL history on Jan. 3, 1993, against what was then the Houston Oilers in a 41-38 overtime victory, while the Titans pulled off the Music City Miracle in 2000, a game-winning kickoff return for a touchdown with 3 seconds remaining. 
Titans coach Jeff Fisher said he knew that Adams had been excited for this game because of the 50th anniversary of the AFL and because Wilson was coming in for it. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 17, 2009 

Men’s 
continued from page 20 
the first half. Sophomore run­ning back Houston Clarke ran into the end zone untouched on a counter play to give the Juggerknotts a 7-0 lead. 
“We felt good. We moved the ball,” Knott senior captain and quarterback Aidan Fitzgerald said of the quick score. “We had momentum. We were opti­mistic.” 
Knott’s defense shut down the Siegfried offense the first several possessions and con­tinued to move the ball. Driving late in the second quarter, Knott looked to score again and maybe run away with the game before Siegfried soph omore Michael Isaacs aerial attacked secured the 14-0 victory. 
Both of St. Edward’s touch­downs came in the second quarter and were converted after Manorite turnovers. The first score of the game was after sophomore Joey Ricioli recovered a fumble on Morrissey’s 32-yard line. The Gentlemen’s drive to the end zone was led by the efforts of sophomore running back Jay Mathes and a crucial fourth down conversion by junior quarterback Matthew Abeling. Abeling passed to freshman Zachary Siefring from five yards out for a 6-0 lead. Following the touchdown, St. Edward’s faked the extra point and instead completed an almost identical pass to Siefring to go up 8-0. 
On the follow­
ing Manorite 
turned the tide “Isaacs made a really drive, junior with an inter-Dominick
amazing interception.
ception. Fanelli recov­“Isaacs made The team really fed ered a bad snap a really amaz-off of that.” on Morrissey’s ing intercep-18-yard line. tion,” Cure said. Abeling execut-
Dex Cure
“The team real-ed another pass ly fed off of Siegfried senior captain to the right cor­
that.” 
Fit zgerald dropped back and looked to complete a 10-yard out pass. Isaacs jumped the route and made a spectacular diving interception keeping Knott from adding to their lead just before the half. 
“I think we just became con­tent and complacent (after the interception),” Fitzgerald said. “We weren’t playing Knott football we had been playing all year long.” 
Siegfried came out in the second half looking like a new team. Led by freshmen David Whitmore and Matt Meinert and sophomores John Aversa and Will Geisecki, the Ramblers reeled off two impressive touchdown drives, taking the lead on an 18-yard run by quarterback Meinert. 
“I just think the team was not ready to be done with foot­ball for the year,” Cure said. “We all came out and played as one unit, and it just hap­pened to work out for us.” 
The Ramblers can relish the win for now, but they know they have work to do yet if they want to defend their title. 
“We know we are facing a really good team in St. Edward’s,” Cure said. “We lost to Morrissey, and they seemed to handle Morrissey just fine. It is going to be an incredible challenge.” 
St. Edward’s 14, Morrissey 0 
No. 8 St. Edward’s upset another higher seeded team in Morrissey to advance to the championship game next weekend. The Gentlemen’s defensive presence and strong ner of the end 
zone, this time to senior Joe DeMott. This was the final time that either team would reach the end zone. 
Gentlemen sophomore run­ning back Jay Mathes spoke confidently about his team’s success in the post season. 
“We didn’t really consider any of these games upsets, because we felt that we matched up well against both teams,” he said. “We were happy to get a second chance as the wild card in the playoffs and show what we can do.” 
Mathes said St. Edward’s football has drastically changed over the past three years. 
“We’re really happy to be in the Stadium, especially for a team that didn’t score for four straight years until the 2006 season,” he said. 
While the Morrissey defense struggled to stop the Gentlemen’s red zone offense, it was their offensive turnovers that prevented the team from gaining any momentum or successful drives. Morrissey senior quar­terback Danny Deveny had trouble connecting with his targets and their running game was incapable of making up for any needed yardage. 
The Gentlemen hope to carry their offensive and defensive dominance of this game into the Stadium next Sunday. They will face another unlikely championship team, No. 7 Siegfried. 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu and Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu 
Women’s 
continued from page 20 
er. 
Pasquerilla West then punted, but a Pangborn returner fielded the punt off a bounce and sprint­ed down the sideline for an elec­trifying touchdown, giving the Phoxes a 7-0 lead. 
“That rattled us early,” Curley said. “We were in a hole, and that’s not a position we’ve been in often this season.” 
Pasquerilla West seemed to be out of its element playing from behind, throwing an intercep­tion on the ensuing possession. The Phoxes turned the ball over, but the Purple Weasels threw an interception in the red zone and gave Pangborn the ball at their own 2-yard line. Though the Phoxes had to punt, Pasquerilla West could mount no offense before halftime and the teams went to halftime with Pangborn still leading 7-0. 
“At halftime, we had to regroup and refocus,” Curley said. 
Partially through the second half, Pasquerilla West faced a fourth-and-five, and Bigi evaded a ferocious Phox rush and com­pleted a long pass to the Pangborn 3-yard line. She ran it in for a touchdown, tying the score 7-7. Neither team could score for the remainder of the game, sending the game to over­time, with the energy and ten­sion palpable on both sidelines. 
“It was kind of scary,” Pangborn junior quarterback Gabby Tate admitted. “It’s all come down to these 10 yards.” 
Pangborn got the ball first in overtime and was able to score on a touchdown run by Tate, but could not convert the pass for an extra point conversion. The Purple Weasels came onto the field with a confident but slightly nervous air, but Bigi quickly put that to rest with a run for touch­down, setting the stage for the all-important point-after attempt. Bigi dropped back for a pass, slipped the Phox pass rush, and scrambled into the end zone to win the game for the Purple Weasels, as their sideline rushed the field in cele­bration. 
Curley credited her defensive line for holding Tate in check and the Purple Weasel receivers for stepping up when injuries called for them to do so. Pasquerilla West now turns its focus to Howard next week in the championship. 
“We are thrilled to be playing Howard,” Curley said. “There’s a lot of hype around these teams, but when you get to the game, all of the hype melts away. 
“Both teams are really going to want it. The better team is going to come out on top.” 
Howard 12, Walsh 7 
After outlasting Walsh 12-7 Sunday, Howard will make its first trip to the Stadium in dorm history next week. 
As the Wild Women mounted a potential game-winning drive with time running down, Howard’s all-around athlete jun­ior Kayla Bishop intercepted Walsh junior Amy Langnecker’s pass to seal the victory for the Ducks. 
During the first half, both teams were unable to score in an even defensive battle. Several chances for both teams were negated by penalties. With five starters missing, Walsh expected the early going to be rough, but the Wild Women came up with two big fourth down stops when Howard was in scoring position. 
“The defense was doing very well, but our offense just could-n’t convert in the red zone early,” Howard senior Mary Jenkins said. 
In the second half, however, both teams offense’s exploded into action. Howard got on the board first in a three-play drive, led by the legs and the arms of Bishop at quarterback. 
Although they had not estab­lished much offense until this point, the Wild Women respond­ed in convincing fashion, led by senior wide out Sarah Smith. Smith showed excellent running ability after the catch, moving Walsh into Howard territory. The play of the drive, however, was junior wide receiver Amy Schnazer’s grab on a deep bomb by Langnecker. Schnazer jumped over Howard sopho­more safety Caroline Walsh to make the catch and held on to the ball as the Howard defense tried to force the fumble. Langnecker then took the ball in for the score. The Wild Women converted the extra point to go up 7-6. 
On the ensuing possession, the Howard offense drove down the field through a series of short passes and quarterback runs. Howard then resorted to some trickery, hitting Jenkins on the tackle screen. After a short com­pletion, Bishop scored on a quarterback scramble to go up 12-7. 
“In the second half, Walsh started to pick it up, and we responded,” Jenkins said. “Our offense started clicking. It was intense and exciting.” 
Walsh’s chance to win evapo­rated with Bishop’s interception and the Duck’s were able to close out the game on a knee. 
“We came out and played hard those last two drives,” Smith said. “Unfortunately, it didn’t work in our favor. Howard is a great team and we wish them the best of luck in the Stadium.” 
With the victory, Howard will take on Pasquerilla West in a clash of unbeatens for the cham­pionship. 
“We are just happy and excit­ed to go to the stadium with the two best teams in both leagues facing each other,” Jenkins said. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 17, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Brown 
continued from page 20 
[Big East] tournament and we’re looking forward to the NCAA tournament, and we have to just take it one match at a time.” 
Notre Dame is only the second team in conference history to finish the regular season unde­feated since the league expand­ed the schedule from 12 to 14 games. Brown acknowledges that her players’ work ethic and determination have led to their success. 
“The consistency that it takes to be able to do that throughout the season is pretty tremen­dous, so I’m just really proud of the team and the effort they put forth each time we took the court,” Brown said. “We really brought out the best in the other teams. They really get up to play us, and the composure we had at times and the way we followed through was really good to see.” 
Heading into the season, many Irish fans expected the talented cast of seniors to pave the way toward a conference 
Tourney 
continued from page 20 
ference championship game should not temper the team’s momentum going into the tournament. 
“I think with three ties in a row we’re looking forward to getting a straight win,” he said. “As they say, shootout title. And while the senior class making each other better,” has led the squad through both Brown said. “Certainly the performance and leadership, younger players that have had the exceptional play of the pretty important roles have underclassmen has many fans stepped up and done a great 

turning  their  job.  We  have  
heads.  good backups at  
Backing up her o u t s t a n d i n g rookie cam- “We have good backups at each of  each of the posi­tions, so it’s been a total  
paign,  sopho- the positions, so it’s  team effort.”  
more outside hit­ter Kristen Dealy finished second  been a total team effort.”  Although the numbers point to the contrary,  
on  the team in  Brown  is  con- 
total kills with  Debbie Brown  vinced her team  
265, good for a  Irish coach  needs  to  

3.27 kills per set average. Junior middle blocker Kellie Sciacca led the team at the net, racking up 20 of her 83 total blocks unassisted. And sophomore libero Frenchy Silva rounded out the defense with 268 digs for a 3.44 average. 
Brown said the team would not find itself sitting atop the Big East and in excellent posi­tion for the NCAA Tournament were it not for the contributions of the younger players. 
“You can’t go through a sea­son like that without having a great practice environment and everybody really pushing and 
wins or losses get pretty old pretty quickly.” 
Notre Dame is one of five Big East teams to make the field of 48, with Connecticut, Louisville, South Florida and No. 13-seed St. John’s all mak­ing the cut. 
The University of Akron scored the top seed in the tournament after a perfect 20­0-0 season. The Irish may face the Zips in the quarterfinals if improve if the 
Irish hope to secure tournament titles. 
“We do know that there are still areas that we can get bet­ter, and going into the Big East Championship, the one thing that works in our favor is that we’ve played each of these teams one time now,” Brown said. “We can go back and real­ly study what we did last time, and make some adjustments. That part of it is really chal­lenging and fun, and we’re looking forward to it.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
both teams make it through the first three rounds. 
However, Clark said the team does not want to look past Green Bay. 
“I’ve heard reports on Green Bay and they’re a very, very good team,” he said. “This will be a challenge. The first round is always very difficult.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
drew 12 fouls in the first half, and went to the free throw line 13 times. 
Early in the second half, Notre Dame continued try­ing to pad its by Hansbrough and senior Tory Jackson and a layup by senior guard Jonathan Peoples. 
Jackson finished with nine points, nine assists and seven rebounds, and junior Tim Abromaitis had another strong showing off the bench, 
lead but the “I knew I could 
Red Flash post up and getresponded to 
to the line.” 
every Irish run. After another Harangody Luke Harangody three made it Irish senior forward 
60-45, Saint Francis went on a small run of its own, using two shots from distance from guard Umar Shannon to pull within nine. 
The see-saw game contin­
ued for the majority of the second half, with the Irish never estab­lishing a lead greater than 15 points, but never allowing the Red Flash closer than five. 
Junior for­ward Tyrone Nash was limit­ed by foul trou­ble in the first 
half, but had a strong return, scoring nine points in the sec­ond period. 
Notre Dame finally pulled away with less than five min­utes to play, building a lead up to 20 points at 85-65 on threes 
sively and 
“Tim Abromaitis gives us another big guy out there, and another guy that can make some shots, get after it offensively and get some big rebounds.” 
Ben Hansbrough 
Irish senior guard 
scoring 17 
points and 
gathering five 
rebounds. 
“Tim Ab rom aitis gives us anoth­er big guy out there, and another guy that can make some shots, get after it offen­get some big 
rebounds,” Hansbrough said. “He’s really helped us out coming off the bench, he played unbelievable.” 
Shannon led Saint Francis with 18 points on 7-of-11 shooting, and the Red Flashes shot 68 percent from 3-point range to keep the Irish from pulling away until late. 
The Irish will face their first real test of the year against 
Long Beach State at home on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. The 49ers went 15-15 last season but were picked to finish first 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 17, 2009 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Tuesday, November 17, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 30 Turkish title 
1 Pop music's 31 Antique shop Cass Elliot and item Michelle Phillips 33 Humiliate 
6 Wander 35 Prince Charles, aimlessly (about) beginning in
19529 ___America 41 Blackmailer's 13Frigidaire evidencecompetitor 42 Heavenly hunter 14Debuts on the 43 One signatory to 
N.Y.S.E. 
Nafta16Court records 
46 Belmont Park 17Member of action Sherwood 
47 Moon jumper of Forest's “merry rhymeband” 49 Claiborne of 
19Existing fashion 
20First pro team to 50Cramped spot, play on artificial slangilyturf 53 Soil: Prefix 
21Calif. barrio area 54Fire up 23Pale as a ghost 55Five Nations 25Company tribe 
stationery 57 Blacktop, e.g. 27___ Na Na 58Poker player's 28Old console dream … and a using Game hint to the ends Paks, briefly of 17-, 25-, 35­29Scrap for Spot and 50-Across 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

62 ___-Europeanlanguages 
63 “Judge Judy”figure 
64 Elzie ___,Popeye's creator 
65 Woad and anil,for two 
66 Take a shot 
67 Snacks often eaten inside out 
Down 
1 Prefix with ware or content 2 Bordeaux buddy 3 Seductive W.W. I spy4 Unable to sit still 5 Margarita go-with 6 Action figures forboys
7 Words after “deaf as” or “dumb as” 
8 Cryaccompanying a head slap 
9 Cattail's locale 
10 Summer refresher 
11 “Hogan's
Heroes” setting 
12 Brand used in 10-Down, maybe 
15 Show contemptfor 
18 Writer ___ 
Stanley Gardner 
22 Gallery event
23 “The Apostle”author Sholem 
24 Elisabeth of “Leaving LasVegas”
26 “Hamlet” soliloquy starter 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Sharon Delorme 
28 Opposite ofeverything 32 N.Y.C.'s originalsubway line 33 Sounds of relief  39 Pinot ___ 40 Automaker Ferrari 43 Log-on name 44 Dresden's state  51 Pranks 52 More coquettish 53 Irene of a Sherlock Holmes story  
34 Go astray  45 Skee-Ball site  56 “In that case …”  
36 Just for ___ 37 Place for a béret  47 One who singsto the cops  59 “Git!” 60 ___ Paulo, Brazil  
38 Auto dashboard indicator  48 Like Nash's lama  61 Four-baggers:Abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Tuesday, November 17, 2009 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame finishes off overmatched Red Flash squad 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish won their second game in less than 48 hours Tuesday, defeating Saint Francis 95-72 in a physical and hard-fought game by the Red Flash. 
Saint Francis was called for 24 fouls and sent Notre Dame (2-0) to the free-throw line 22 times but played the Irish close most of the game. While the Red Flash never led past the opening minutes, they kept the home team from putting the game out of reach until the closing minutes of the second half. 
“You have to give them credit, they made some tough shots,” Irish senior forward Luke Harangody said. “They were good practice for a good Long Beach State team coming in here Thursday.” 
Harangody led the team with 27 points and nine rebounds and showed off his shooting range with three 3-point buck­ets. Senior guard Ben Hansbrough knocked down four threes and was second on the Irish with 18 points. 
After a back-and-forth open­ing five minutes, the Irish and Red Flash were knotted up at seven apiece. Notre Dame then went on a 12-0 run, fueled by two Harangody threes and one by Hansbrough. 
Saint Francis showed some resiliency after the run, cutting the Irish lead down to five at 33-28. The Red Flash then got into foul trouble, with Harangody’s aggressiveness in the post paying off. The senior drew fouls on four straight Notre Dame possessions, and converted the penalties into six points at the free throw line. 
Harangody said that in a game with so many whistles, he saw the opportunity to draw some fouls underneath. 
“Definitely when they were in the bonus in the first half, I started calling for it down low,” Harangody said. “I knew I could post up and get to the line.” 
Red Flash guard Anthony Ervin made two 3-pointers to close out the first half and keep the Red Flash within seven points, trailing 45-38. The Irish 
see BREY/page 17 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Stadium bound 
Siegfried, St. Edward’s 


P-Dub, Howard make set for title showdown 

championship game 
By JOHN HELMS and 

By ALLAN JOSEPH and KAITLYN MURPHY 
BARRICK BOLLMAN 
Sports Writers Sports Writers 

Unbeaten Pasquerilla West No. 3 Knott, 14-7 to keep its 
No. 7 Siegfried beat its rival, 

topped Pangborn in overtime back-to-back title hopes alive. 
Sunday, 14-13, to earn a berth in The victory Sunday gave the 
the Stadium. Ramblers a chance to defend 
The two teams went into the their 2008 title in the Stadium 
overtime tied 7-7. A successful next weekend. 
extra point conversion by the The two teams tied earlier in 
Purple Weasels won them the the season and were both con-
game after both teams scored sidered title contenders 
touchdowns in the extra period. throughout the year. The Mod 
Junior quarterback Simone Bigi Quad rivalry reached a new 
evaded the Phoxes rush and level with a Stadium berth on 
scrambled into the end zone for the line. 
the winning point. “It means a lot to beat a 
“[The win] was awesome, team like Knott,” Siegfried 
though we definitely had to grind senior captain Dex Cure said. 
it out,” senior captain Cynthia “Knott is a great team, and we 
Curley said. were happy to come away 
The Phoxes came out on with a win. The fact that the 
offense first to begin the game win gets us into the Stadium 
and drove the ball well until a means even more.” 
sack and penalty forced a punt to Knott did not let Siegfried 
Pasquerilla West, whose drive win the contest easily, putting 
stalled after a seemingly serious points on the board early in SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer injury to a Purple Weasel receiv-
St. Edward’s junior quarterback Matt Abeling Howard junior Kaitlin Robinson runs after a see MEN’S/page 16 throws a pass during his team’s win Sunday. catch during the Ducks’ victory Sunday. see WOMEN’S/page 16 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Much still ahead for Irish 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
With wins over Georgetown and South Florida this week­end, the Irish accomplished two of their primary goals this sea­son: an outright Big East regu­lar-season title and an unde­feated conference record. 
But as Notre Dame heads into tournament play, its two biggest goals still loom ahead. 
“It’s not satisfying. Obviously we feel good about the things we’ve done, but we’re not even close to being finished,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “There’s an urgency to still accomplish a lot more this year. We’re looking forward to the 
see BROWN/page 17 


MEN’S SOCCER 
ND will host Green Bay to open NCAAs 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will host Green Bay Thursday in the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
The teams and bracket were announced Monday, and the Irish received one of 27 at-large bids to the tour­nament. 
“We’re also very excited to be there,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “If you’d ask me two or three weeks ago we weren’t sure we’d make it. We put a very good run together. I think the team is hungry to do well.” 
If the Irish (10-7-4) defeat Green Bay (14-2-3), they will move on to face No. 9-seed Northwestern in Evanston on Nov. 22. The Wildcats knocked Notre Dame out of the NCAA tournament in a first-round game in 2008 and defeated the Irish 1-0 in a preseason scrimmage on Aug. 24. 
The Irish have been hot in the past two weeks, defeat­ing then-No. 5 Connecticut and tying No. 8 South Florida, No. 9 Louisville and No. 24 St. John’s in each round of the Big East tourna­ment. Clark said a shootout 
see TOURNEY/page 17 





