
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame Response holds prayer rally 
Coalition organizes first of several planned events to protest selection ofPresident Obama as May Commencement speaker 
Chris Labadie, the chair of theBy SARAH MERVOSH 
newly-formed Notre Dame
News Writer 
Response coalition, in a speech at the rally. "It's a plague that 
Approximately 400 people not only kills the body, but also participated in a prayer rally souls. This plague is abortion." Sunday to protest the Palm Sunday "is the perfect University's decision to invite day to begin our struggle," he President Barack Obama to said. speak at the Commencement "This prayer assembly is our ceremony and award him with first work, our first action, with an honorary degree. many more to come," Labadie 
The purpose of the rally, said. People from across the which took place in front of the country attended the rally, Daly Main Building, was to kick off said. the Notre Dame studerit The rally consisted of several response and set the tone for a speeches and a rosary prayer. respectful, prayer-centered dis­White flowers were also passed agreement, Notre Dame Right to out to be placed at the Grotto. Life Club president Mary Daly "The flowers are meant to rep­said. resent the innocent life of chi!­
"Since 1973, a plague has rav­ished our country," said senior see RALLY/page 4 




University admits top academic class 
Admissions Office received second-highest number ofapplications in historyfor class of2013 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
From a pool of 14,352 applicants, Notre Dame accepted its most academically com­petitive class yet, said Bob Mundy, the director of admissions operations. 
The average SAT score of admitted stu­dents for the class of 2013 is 1434-seven points higher than that of students from the class of 2012. The average ACT score is 32.6, Mundy said. 
On average, admitted students were in the top four percent of their high school classes, he said. 
Mundy said the applicant pool for the class of 2013 was the second largest in his­tory -following the class of 2011, when about 14.500 applications were submitted. 
The number of applications increased 3 
see 2013/page 6 

Ad111itted Class of 2013 
14,352 applicants 
32.6 
average ACf score

2nd highest nutnber qTapplicants ever 

Registrar 
•


1mproves class search 
capability 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Office of the Registrar is implementing a new search engine for classes for the fall of 2009, assistant registrar Chris Temple said. 
"'Enhanced Class Search' is accessible to students by logging into the regular online Class Search using their netiD and password," Temple said. "The enhanced functionality includes a 
see CLASS/page4 

Dance Marathon raises $91,538 
Annual Saint Mary's event brings in money for Riley Hospital 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
After a night of standing up for a good cause, the Saint Mary's Dance Marathon com­mittee announced they had raised over $90,000 during the academic year !'or Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. 
"Our total was $91,538.24, which was a $6,000 increase over last year," Dance Marathon president Sarah 
see DANCE/page 6 




Hundreds participate in 
CorrunUniversity Day 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Approximately 700 Notre Dame students and 500 members of the South Bend commwlity took part in the first annual CommUniversity Day Saturday, said outgoing Student Senate Social Concerns Committee chair Michelle Byrne. 
"We had a lot of students doing service with members of the com­munity," Byrne said. "I think that was the biggest sign that the event was successful -the community members and Notre Dame stu­dents were there and working together." 

CommUniversity Day, organized by Notre Dame's student govern­ment, was dedicated to bringing together members of the Notre Dame and South Bend communi­ties to perform service together as a cohesive unit. 
Projects began in the morning and some went on for the whole day, with Notre Dame students 
see SERVICE/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Headphone 


etiquette 
The girl at the table next to me last week was listening to "Hips Don't lie" by Shakira. The guy across the room from me was listening to rock and roll with a lot of drums. 
They both had their Laura McCrystal
headphones on and were immersed in 
News Wzre
their home­
Editor
work. 
I don't know what their music taste is because I peer over their shoulders. I don't just imagine what they are listening to, either. 
I know because I can hear it. 
The first time I heard music through someone's headphones was last year in the basement of the library. My friend and I thought it was hilarious to watch the girl sit in her booth and bounce her head to the beat. The humor faded, however, when we realized how hard it was to concentrate with a thumping bass in the background. 
In the past few weeks, I have heard music through headphones in every silent room in which I attempt to study. I only wish this were an exaggeration. 
Even my own dorm room is not a safe­haven. While I share my roommate's love for the Joshua Radin Pandora sta­tion, I fear for her eardrums. 
I can get over the distraction of the music. Well, most of the time. I am cur­rently having trouble focusing on this column because I can hear not just one, but two people's music blasting through their headphones. 
I can also laugh it off most of the time. I've exchanged some giggles with com­plete strangers over other people's odd taste in music. The listeners are always oblivious though-there's no way to hear our laughter over their tunes. 
I am most concerned for the personal health of these music lovers. Our gener­ation is the first to use headphones from a young age. I don't think that I need to do much medical research to figure out that we are going to go deaf ifwe con­tinue blasting headphones at unneces­sarily high volumes. 
You think your grandparents are hard of hearing? I can't imagine how loudly our own grandchildren will have to shout at us. 
I have a solution: just turn it down. Everyone wins -your ears and the peo­ple around you. 
This solution is easier said than done. Most of the time, I am sure that the stu­dious listeners are oblivious to the fact that I can hear their music. I am also fairly certain that they would be embar­rassed if did know. 
So here's a test. Adjust your music to the volume level of your choice. Then pull the headphones out of your ears and press them lightly against some­thing else. Can you still hear the music? If so, it's too loud. Turn it down and try again. 
I guarantee that it is possible to enjoy music at a lower volume. I know this because, when I'm not desperately seek­ing a silent study space, I occasionally listen to my iPod. I make sure that no one else can hear it, though. I would be mortified ifanyone knew that some­times I listen to Taylor Swift's "Love Story" on repeat. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 6, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT POKEMON CHARACTER WOULD YOU BE AND WHY? 







Gavin Do  lan Giles  Kaity Veenstra  Kirsten Adam  Phil Black  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  
Siegfreid  Knott  Lyons  Welsh Family  Fisher  
"Charizard,  "Kirby, because  "Ninetales,  "Eevee, because  "Ditto, so I  
because he is  he's better than  because I can  I don't know  could be all of  
the most  Pikachu at  breathe fire (I  what I want to  them. ,  
dominant  Super Smash  wish)."  do with my  
Pokemon ofall  Bros. on N64."  life."  
time."  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 
Customs finds art framed with marijuana 
DOUGLAS, Ariz. -It wasn't the beauty of the paintings that caught of the eye of Customs agents. 
It was their drug-sniff­ing dog turning up his nose at the art that stopped the show. 
Federal officials in Arizona say a man was taken into custody after Customs and Border Protection officers found 90 pounds of marijuana hidden in the frames of six large paintings in his vehicle. 
Officers selected the man's vehicle for a rou-


York City bridge. But he valiantly shimmied down to the lower span ­where car traffic travels -and found the bauble. It was slightly bent, but the diamonds were still in place. 
A police van that patrols the bridge stopped traffic to let him retrieve it. 
The Coram resident and girlfriend Gina Pellicani plan to get married on April 24, 2010, the anniversary of the day they started dating four years ago. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
tine inspection Friday at the border crossing in Douglas, Ariz., and their dog showed an interest in the paintings. 
An X-ray revealed the marijuana in the frames. 
Man drops, daves ring in Brooklyn Bridge proposal 
NEW YORK -He's lucky she said yes -and he's also lucky the dia­mond engagement ring he dropped on the Brooklyn Bridge didn't end up in the river. 
Don Walling fumbled the ring as he proposed to his girlfriend on the pedestri­an walkway of the New 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
LLI 
~ 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
Q
. ·*· 
_, 
<C 
(,) 
**** **
* * 
0
_. HIGH 38 HIGH 36 HIGH 34 HIGH 45 LOW 23 LOW 23 LOW 27 LOW 29 
Q
**** **
* * 

IN BRIEF 
The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies is hosting a lecture titled "Taliban and the War on Terror in Pakistan" today at 4 p.m. in C104-105 Hesburgh Cente~ Visiting scholar Mona K. Sheikh, from the Orfalea Center for Global and International Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara will talk about her experiences in Pakistan. 
The Walsh Hall Tree Sit will take place Tuesday from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. on God Quad in front of Walsh Hall. The event will feature free food, music and fun. Donations will benefit the Arbor Day association. 
A lecture titled "Modeling Human Cancer in the Mouse" will take place Tuesday at 4 
p.m. in 101 Jordan Hall of Science. Dr. Mario Campecci, 2007 Nobel Laureate in Physiology and Medicine will speak about his innovative "knockout mice" technology. 
The Kroc Institute and the Notre Dame International Security Program will cospon­sor a lecture titled "Obama and Afghanistan: More Troops, but What Else?" Tuesday at 
4:15 p.m. in C103 Hesburgh Center. Thomas A. Schweich, 
who  is  an  Ambassador-in­ 
Residence  and  Visiting  
Professor  at  Washington  

University in St. Louis will deliv­er the lecture. He formerly served the Bush administration as ambassador for counternar­cotics and justice reform in Afghanistan. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Q
**** *..
* * 

HIGH 49 HIGH 43 LOW 34 LOW 30 
Atlanta 65 I 49 Boston 50 I 35 Chicago 51 I 34 Denver 42 I 24 Houston 74 I 53 Los Angeles 65 I 54 Minneapolis 38 I 25 New York 51 I 40 Philadelphia 53 I 41 Phoenix 82 I 55 Seattle 47 I 38 St. Louis 67 I 39 Tampa 83 I 69 Washington 55 I 44 
Monday, April 6, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lecture addresses evolution, religion 
Conference offers multidisciplinary approach to Darwin's theory 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Darwinism and religion can be compatible despite the perceived conflict between them, Notre Dame philosophy professor Alvin Plantinga said in a lecture Friday. 
Many Americans see theistic religion, which includes Christianity, Judaism and Islam, as incompatible with evolution, Plantinga said in his lecture, which was part of "Evolution of Age: Multidisciplinary Reflections on Darwin 150 Years Later," a conference held Friday and Saturday at Notre Dame. 
"It has to do with the thought that God has created human beings in his image," he said. 
People do not see how religion fits into evolution because they hear scientists argue that evolu­tion is unplanned and therefore could not be guided by God, Plantinga said. 
Yet Plantinga said it is possible that God guides the random genetic mutations in Darwinism, which would make evolution compatible with religion. 
"On the face of it, it appears as if God could cause that process," he said. 
Opposing views of random mutations cause this superficial conflict between evolution and religion, Plantinga said. 
The notion that evolution is unplanned depends on how sci­entists choose to define Darwin's concept of random mutations, Plantinga said. He said he dis­agrees with scientists who believe that random mutations require a complete lack of guid­ance. 
"The point is that a mutation ... is random just if neither the organism nor its environment contains a mechanism or process or organ that causes adaptive mutations to occur," he said. 
Plantinga said this clarified def­inition of random mutation would allow for God's guidance. 
"It's perfectly compatible that these mutations can be random in this sense but also caused by God," he said. "All I'm asking is whether it's compatible with evo­lutionary theory as it stands." 
It is not surprising that Americans are hesitant about 
teaching evolution in public schools when they are not aware that random mutations could be guided by God, Plantinga said. 
"As polls reveal, many Americans have great doubt about evolution," he said. "I think it's because we're regularly told by the experts ... that the evolu­tionary process is unguided." 
Plantinga also said that natu­ralism, which is an extreme form of atheism, is not necessarily compatible with evolutionary the­ory. 
While it seems contradictory, naturalism is less compatible with evolution than theistic reli­gion, Plantinga said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

CEO to speak on 






Catholic health care 
President of Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center will speak about ministry in hospitals 
tern located in north central
Special to The Observer Indiana. SJRMC is constructing Nancy R. Hellyer, president a new, world-class, $355 mil­and chief executive officer of lion hospital scheduled to open Saint Joseph Regional Medical on Dec. 14. Center (SJRMC), will speak on "The medical and technologi-

"Catholic Ministry in Health Care" on Wednesday at the University of Notre Dame. 
The lecture, which is free and open to the public, will begin at 7 p.m. in Room 105 of the Jordan Hall 
of Science.  
Hellyer  will  
discuss  the  
ministry  of  

health care in light of Catholic teachings including the 

"The medical and technological innovations at the new Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center will be unlike anything ever seen in healthcare throughout Michiana. ,, 
Nancy Hellyer President, CEO of Saint Joseph Medical Center 
differences 
required under the Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services. She will share SJRMC's history and plans for future ministry to support this community including the latest information on the new SJRMC hospital. 
SJRMC is a not-for-profit, multi-hospital health care sys-cal innovations at the new Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center will be unlike anything ever seen in health­care through­out Michiana," Hellyer said, adding that the new, 633,000­square foot facility will provide even 
greater oppor­tunities for collaboration 

between the SJRMC and Notre Dame. Hellyer earned a bachelor's 
degree in nursing from DePauw University and a mas­ter's in business administration from the Keller Graduate School of Management. 
The lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame's College of Science. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 6, 2009 
plans to be at Commencement "Instead of liberation for to protest and "create such a women, abortion has brought
Rally 

crisis around this that no other enslavement," Cassidy said, Catholic university stoops to explaining that some women
continued from page 1 

this level of atrocity in the near feel they must get an abortion 
future." because their parent, or dren that are aborted," said In response to the graduating boyfriend or society, expects it senior Caitilin Podlaski, who seniors who say that of them. was helping hand out flowers. Commencement is their day to Cassidy said he once attend­
Sophomore Ashley Meklis enjoy, Terry said "it's much ed an event where women who said that although she found it bigger than had abor­"a little disturbing" that the them. tions testi­University invited a pro-choice "This is like "President Obama has fied about leader to speak at the rape of their expe­
many fine qualities . ...
Commencement, that is not the Catholic ortho­riences. He
We respect him as a
primary reason she attended doxy, sociology recounted the rally. and justice. This devoted father and loving their stories Meklis said she attended the will affect the for the
husband. Our
rally because "preserving the Catholic world crowd gath­
for at a disagreement is over an
Catholic identity of this institu­least ered at the tion is important." generation," he issue [whose] magnitude rally. Stephanie Martin, a staff said. "It's not lie said
outweighs any other 
member at the University, said just about the one woman,
issue and all other issues 
she attended the rally to sup­students, I'm who had port the students and join oth­sorry to say." combined." benn rapnd ers in prayer. Nationally and had an "We don't pay the University, recognized abortion,
Harold Cassidy 
the university pays us," Martin attorney Harold said, ''I'm 
attorney
said. "But we can ... respectful­Cassidy was the here to tes­ly request that [Jenkins] recon­primary speaker tify that sider [his] decision." at the rally. Daly that abor­
"I don't think anybody here said his speech was meant to tion was a second rape that means any disrespect or show that the issue at hand was worse than the first one." unkindness," she said. spreads beyond Notre Dame Labadie said beginning 
Anti-abortion activist Handall and "affects the secular section Wednesday, which is 40 days Terry created the Web site of society." before graduation, ND stopobamanotred arne. com, Cassidy said abortion is not Hesponse will be holding a 40­which aims to stop Obama just a Catholic issue, but "tran­day rosary campaign "for the from speaking at graduation scends any one religion" and conversion of President Baraek and calls for the dismissal of also, "transcends religion Obama's heart." Jenkins. He also attended the itself." They aim to have one million rally, and held a large banner "A truly Catholic belief is a rosary prayers by with pictures belief in the Commencement, and each of Jesus on immaculate con­rosary prayed can be logged on the cross, ception," Cassidy the ND Response Web site, he Jenkins, said. "Secular said.
"Our goal is to create

Obama and a expressions of the "President Obama has many fetus that said a political slime pot sanctity of life ... fine qualities.... We respect "Would you are everywhere." him as a devoted father and
so that President 

invite Pilate Many believe loving husband," Cassidy said.
Obama ·s advisors tell 

after he con­there is a consen­"Our disagreement is over an demned him that it•s not sus among issue [whose] magnitude out­Christ?" Americans that weighs any other issue and all
worth it for him to 

Terry said abortion should be other issues combined." 
he attended the rally "to  wade through the political mud. ,,  . legal, but no such consensus exists,  
hold the sign  he said.  
and be point," addition  on in to  Randall Terry anti-abortion activist  "The majority of Americans thought in 1973, and still  
showing sup- think today, that  
port for  the  abortion should be  
students.  illegal," Cassidy  

"Our goal is to create a politi­said. "If Roe vs. Wade did not cal slime pot so that President stand in the way, [the fact that Obama's advisors tell him that the majority believes this] it's not worth it for him to would be immediately evident." wade through the political Cassidy's also said many mud," Terry said. think being anti-abortion 
If nothing changes and means being anti-women. But Obama speaks at abortion is not good for Commencement, Terry said he women, he said. 

JJu ObJerver iJ looking for tltudenlo, preferably buoineoo majora, u)ho are intereoted in working for the ofdverliving Department next year. 
Jf inferetiied, pleaoe email your reJume to tbea@nd.edu or mrodrig9@nd.edu. 
Unteroiewd will take place after GaMer Break. 

Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
the distribution of responses, according to the CIF Web site. 
Class 

Another major difference is 
continued from page 1 the philosophy behind the 
system, Brellenthin said. 
three-section design corre­"The Enhanced Class 
sponding to three new/supple­Search isn't providing the 
mentary sources of informa­quickest way out or the easi­
tion: Enrollment Jlistory, est teacher, but the best edu­
Instructor Course cation," said Brellenthin. 
Descriptives and Student The system will also follow 
Feedback." an incentive system, 
The Student Feedback plays Brellenthin said. Only stu­
a crucial role, said Ryan dents who completed their 
Brellenthin, CIFs the semes­
the former ter before will 
Student "The only people that have access to 
the Student
Senate respond [to
Academic Feedback por­
NDToday. com] are
.Affairs tion. Committee polarized. The "This pro­
and current Enhanced Class vides more stu­
student gov­dent input, and
Search is 
ernment Chief holds the pro­
of Staff. comprehensive and fessors 
"The stu­accurate." accountable," dent respons­Brellenthin es are shown said. 
Ryan Brellenthin
for the next To create the 
semester," student government Enhanced Class 
Brellenthin chief of staff Search, faculty, 
said. "More staff and stu­
and more dents worked 
data is compiled over time, together, Temple said. 
giving more information." "Teams of faculty and stu­
The information compiled dents collaborated on this 
comes from the Course effort under the leadership of 
Instructor Feedback (CIF) the Provost's Office, which 
forms, the electronic class coordinated the work of the 
review system that the Office of Institutional 
University switched to in the Hesearch, the Office of 
fall of 2008, according to the Information Technology and 
CIF Web site. The information the Office of the Hegistrar in 
is then compiled into ratings this project," Temple said. 
for the course and teacher "It was a cross-cutting 
similar to the popular Web effort," Brellenthin said. "It 
site NDToday.com but with a shows how much the 
few key differences, University cares about stu­
Brellenthin said. dent opinion." 
"The only people that The Enhanced Class Search 
respond Ito NDToday.com] can be found in "Class 
are polarized," he said. "The Search" under the Student 
Enhanced Class Search is Academic tab on InsideND, 
comprehensive and accu­according to the CIF Web site. 
rate." 

The responses aren't listed 
in an averaged single answer, Contact Amanda Gray at 
but rather a graph showing agray3@nd.edu 

• 
We're magically delicious! • Guess who doesn't get to study about Europe's oldest 

• 
Where the only thing green 


structure, the world'sis everything. 
greatest writers, and a 
• 
Where the Fighting Irish & civilization that has lasted 

loving Irish meet. thousands of years? Criminology Minors. 

• 
Snake free for over 1,500 

years. • A Joyce that will drive you Wilde for Shaw. 

• 
Don't hate us because of Colin Farrell. 


Vote today at irishstud;''es.nd.edu 
IRST Minors study: Minors qualify for: 
+ 
Folklore + Once-in-a-lifetime, fully funded Irish internships;

+ 
Anthropology 

+ Unique Fall, Spring and Summer study

+ 
Dance 


abroad programs in one of the greatest
+ 
Political Science 


cities in !he world; 
+ 
Sodology 

+ Immersion language Study in the Wesl of 
+ 
History Ireland; 

+ 
Uteraturf.> + 1ickets to see Irish concerts, films and distinguished lecturers. 

+ 
language 

+ 
The only ethnic group that is allowed to pinch you if you don't wear the right wlor on their feast day. 


For Information email irishstudies(tvnd.edu or call 631<J555. 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 6, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pope denounces migrant trafficking 
VATICAN CITY -Pope Benedict XVI demanded urgent action by the European Union and African nations on Sunday to stop the trafficking in migrants, saying the global economic crisis was driving more people to make the perilous voyage. 
Benedict recalled the drowning last week of more than 200 Europe-bound migrants whose overcrowded boat capsized in the stormy waters off libya. 
"We cannot resign ourselves to such tragedies, which unfortunately have been repeating themselves for some time," Benedict said at the end of his Palm Sunday Mass. 
"The scope of the problem requires urgent strategies coordinated by the European Union and African countries, as well as the adoption of adequate humanitarian measures, to pre­vent these migrants from going to unscrupu­lous traffickers," Benedict said. 
EU, U.S. respond to missile launch 
PRAGUE -The United States and the European Union say North Korea's missile launch is a threat to neighbors and demands a response from world nations. 
A statement from U.S. and EU leaders calls on North Korea to abandon all nuclear weapons and "cease threatening behavior." 
They said North Korea's development of a ballistic missile capability "is aimed at pro­viding it with the ability to threaten coun­tries near and far with weapons of mass destruction." 
The leaders also said the missile launch "demands a response from the international community, including from the U.N. Security Council, to demonstrate that its resolutions cannot be defied with impunity." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Fargo schools reopen after flooding 
FARGO, N.D. -School bells are set to ring Monday for the first time in nearly two weeks for students who had joined the round-the-clock sandbagging effort to protect the Fargo area from a record Red River flood. 
"It's almost like the first day of school in many ways," said Morgan Forness, principal of Oak Grove Lutheran School, which lost two buildings on its campus when part of a permanent flood wall buckled and let the river in. "They're kind of excited to get back in action here." 
Administrators hoped the return to class will calm the nerves of a community exhausted from sandbagging and nervous about another flood fight possible later in the month. The Red River has been falling in Fargo since its record crest of 
40.82 feet on March 28, but the National Weather Service says another crest in mid-April could be higher. 
Wind strengthens Texas wildfires 
WHEELER, Texas -Strong wind on Sunday hampered fire crews' efforts to control several Texas wildfires that had destroyed eight homes and damaged more than 20 smaller structures. 
The largest fire, an 11 ,000-acre blaze near the Texas-Oklahoma state line, was about 25 percent contained, but wind gusting to 35 mph made it difficult to maintain fire lines, Texas Forest Service spokeswoman Jeanne Eastham said Sunday. 
"Anytime you have the wind, it makes it harder to control the fire," Eastham said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Elkhart organizations lose funding 
ELKHART -Nine community organiza­tions in Elkhart County that are losing their United Way funding are searching for ways to survive as the area struggles with nearly one-fifth of its workforce being jobless. 
The United Way dropped groups such as the Elkhart Childhood Development Center and Mental Health America after its annu­al campaign raised 32 percent less than last year. 
ISRAEL 
Netanyahu will make new agenda 
Prime Minister says government will develop diplomatic policies on peace talks 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday said his government would immediately get to work on Mideast peace issues, promising to present a diplomatic agenda in the corning weeks. 
Speaking at the first meeting of his Cabinet, Netanyahu said he planned to appoint himself and 11 other ministers to the Security Cabinet, a select body that deals with the nation's most pressing security and political issues. "In the coming weeks, we shall complete our policy guidelines for progress on peace and security," he said. 
Netanyahu has sent mixed signals about his diplomatic program in recent weeks. Elected on a platform highly critical of his predecessor's peace talks with the Palestinians, he took a softer line when he was sworn into office last week, telling parlia­ment he would pursue a "full peace" with the Arab and Muslim world. 
However, Netanyahu has given few details about his program and has so far ernrnent would have to their conflict, such as final den surge in violence. Last refused to endorse the idea accept the creation of a borders between Israel week, a Palestinian attack­of an independent Palestinian state, stop con­and a future Palestinian er infiltrated a Jewish set­Palestinian state. struction in West Bank state and the status of tlement in the West Bank Palestinian independence Israeli settlements and Jerusalem. No apparent and killed a 13-year-old is a cornerstone of U.S. remove army roadblocks progress has been made. boy with a pickax. The policy in the Mideast, and crippling life in the West Also high on Netanyahu's attacker is still at large. the Palestinians have said Bank "so that we can agenda is Iran's nuclear Over the weekend, a 16­that if Netanyahu does not resume dialogue in order program. Netanyahu year-old girl from an commit to a two-state solu­to reach a political solu­believes Iran is pursuing Israeli Arab town opened tion, there is no point in tion." Abbas was speaking nuclear weapons and has fire at a police station in negotiating. during a visit to Baghdad. called on the international southern Israel before she 
Appearing on a late­Netanyahu's hard-line community to prevent this. was shot and killed. night Israeli TV interview foreign minister, Avigdor Iran says its program is Police spokesman Micky program, Netanyahu gave Lieberman, raised addi­peaceful. Rosenfeld said the girl was an indication of his stern tional concerns on his first Upon taking office last an 11th-grade student policy in a brief reference day in office when he dis­week, Netanyahu stressed from the Bedouin township to Palestinian rocket missed as meaningless the that Israelis "know how to of Hura in southern Israel. attacks from Gaza. "One past year of U.S.-led peace protect" their country -a He gave her name as thing I can promise you," negotiations and said con­possible hint that Tehran's Basrna Awad al-Nabari. he said, "there will be no cessions to the Palestinians nuclear facilities could be He said police were try­rocket fire without a only invite war. struck if the international ing to determine whether response." In peace talks over the community fails to stop its the girl had acted on her 
On Sunday, Palestinian past year, the U.S. has nuclear activities. own or coordinated the President Mahmoud Abbas pushed the sides to resolve Netanyahu's government attack with an organized said the new Israeli gov-the issues at the core of also is dealing with a sud-militant group. 

Father, five children dead in Wash. 
Associated Press car, Auburn Police Sgt. Scott Near out why." 
said. Flansburg identified the couple as 
GRAHAM -A father apparently Later in the day, a relative stopped Angela and James Harrison and the shot to death five of his children, ages by the mobile horne and called author­children as Maxine, Samantha, 7 to 16, at their mobile horne and then ities after seeing a child lying motion­Heather, Jamie and James. The father killed himself near a casino miles less on a bed through a window. worked as a diesel mechanic, and the away, police said Saturday. Pierce County deputies checked the mother works at Wal-Mart, Flansburg 
Ed Troyer, a spokesman for the mobile horne, which is about 20 miles said. Pierce County Sheriff, called it a southeast of the casino, and found Ryan Peden, a classmate of the eld­domestic violence situation and a four of the children dead in their beds est daughter, said she told him Friday murder-suicide. and the fifth in the bathroom. night that her parents had gotten into 
"We believe they all died of gunshot Troyer said investigators believe the a fight and her mother had left. The wounds," Troyer said. husband and the wife, who was not father followed the mother and tried 
Police found the father's body early horne, were not estranged. to get her to return, said Peden, 16. Saturday in his still-running car near The mother's aunt, Penny Neighbors in the Deer Run mobile the Muckleshoot Casino in Auburn, Flansburg, was at a loss to explain the horne park, a neat, well-kept commu­about 30 miles south of Seattle. He crime. nity nestled among towering ever­had apparently killed himself with a "They were pleasant together," greens, were shocked and weeping at rifle, although no note was left in the Flansburg said. "We can't even figure the news. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 6, 2009 
Service 
continued from page 1 
and community members holding Easter egg hw1ts for local children and cleaning up area parks. The day culminated with a picnic at the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
Byrne said there was a lot of engagement from the Notre Dame community. 
"There were so many organiza­tions and clubs that had service projects that they had wanted to do and this day gave them the opportunity to engage in them," Byrne said. 
Senior Francesca Pennino helped to organize and supervise a scavenger hunt for students from St. Adalbert, a South Bend grade school where she has been tutor­
ing kids for  more than three  
years.  
"I  was  told  about  

CommUniversity Day and was asked if I wanted to do something with the St. Adalbert kids," Pennino said. "I know a lot of the kids pretty well and I thought that this would be a great opportunity to expose them to college." 
The 30 students from St. Adalbert participated in a scav­enger hunt that broke them into groups led by Notre Dame stu­dents and took them all over cam­pus. 
"It was a great way for them to look at college and know that it isn't something that is for some­body else; college is for them too," Pennino said. 

The St. Adalbert students had to do tasks that involved knowledge and also ones that were meant simply to be fun. 
"Not only was it an opportunity for these kids to be exposed to education, but they also had a great time just being silly," Pennino said. "And really, as Notre Dame students how often do we have the opportunity to run around campus and do cartwheels with kids for a few hours?" 
Senior Allie Minnis also partici­pated in CommUniversity Day by helping to restore the mural that is on the side of the Robinson Center. 
"The mural on the side of the center is made of wood panels and a lot of the panels were rotting," Minnis said. "Fifteen of us, includ­ing workers from the Hobinson Center and kids who go there, took down some of the old panels and replaced them with new ones that we had painted." 
Minnis said the greatest part of her day was being able to work with the children who benefit from her actions. 
"The kids were so excited that they got to help improve some­thing that was a part of their lives," she said. "And we were actually working with the kids instead of doing a service for them." 
Working with the community, she said. "There are plenty of things that need to be fixed, but I feel like the overall groundwork has been laid out for a successful event in the future." 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 
2013 
continued from page 1 
percent from last year, he said. 
He said this year marks the first year the University used the Common Application, which could explain the increase in applications. 

Mundy said the University also saw the largest minority applicant pool, and hopes that 22 to 24 percent of the incom­ing class will be non-white. 
However, he said the final figures for the class of 2013 numbers are difficult to pre­dict until the deadline for stu­dents to accept their offer of admission has passed. 
and not just for them, wa..'i one of the aims of CommUniversity Day, Bryne said. 
"We didn't want this to be a ser­vice day," Byrne said. "We really wanted to be in a relationship with the community." 
Byrne said the enthusiastic par-
Although the University reported the second-highest number of applicants this year, Mundy said the Admissions Office anticipates that the recession will affect the deci­sion process for admitted stu­dents. 
"There is ... a feeling among our colleagues that students will take a bit longer to decide ticipation from Notre Dame stu­dents coupled with the passionate response from the community makes her hope that the event will occur again next year. 
"I feel like CommUniveri'ity Day was a real milestone in the way that we relate to the community," 
to enroll, meaning that more will reply right at the May 1 deadline," he said. 
Mundy said the University admitted more students in Early Action than they have in the past because of the reces­sion. 

"The faltering economy was one of the reasons we admit­ted more students in Early Action than has been typical," he said. "We knew they were competitive and we felt it bet­ter to offer admission in December in order to give these students more time to consider Notre Dame as a col­lege option." 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 

night, ending at 8 a.m. on Throughout the night, fami­Saturday. Participants donat­lies with children at Riley ed $12 to register for the Hospital shared stories about event. their experi-
The marathon ences. was packed with "Students different things "/think the event had seemed really for participants about the same excited to to do, special meet the Riley
participation as last 

guests and tons families and 
year, although I think 

of activities. join the big During the that this year's D a n c e marathon, Marathon
dancers were even
dancers had the family," Voss 
more committed than 

chance to play said. "My games, climb on in previous years. favorite a rock wall, do moment was crafts, bounce in when Sheila
Sarah Voss 
a bounce house Fraser, a 15­
Dance Marathon
and dance. year-old stu­

"I think a large president dent, shared number of the her story participants just about battling wanted to dance osteosarcoma the night away, so that was at Riley Hospital. I don't think really fun," Voss said. there was a dry eye in the 
Voss said around 400 peo­gym." ple participated in this year's To get involved with the event. club, email dmarathn@saint­
"I think the event had about marys.edu or visit their Web the same participation as last site at www.smcdm.org. year, although I think that this year's dancers were even more committed than in pre-Contact Alicia Smith at vious years," Voss said. asmithOl@saintmarys.edu 


Dance 
continued from page 1 
Voss said. "The fact that we managed to increase our total during a recession is amaz­ing." 

Participants were encour­aged to stay on their feet for 12 hours in honor of children who are unable to do so. 
"The marathon was amaz­ing," Voss said. "I don't think I've ever seen so many com­mitted dancers who were pre­pared to stay on their feet all night long. Students this year really understood why they were there -to stand for someone who couldn't." 
The marathon was held Friday in Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's College. It began at 8 p.m. and continued through the 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, April 6, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,017.59 +39.51 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,110 89 972 1,557,913,407 

AMEX 


NASDAQ 1,621.87 + 19.24 NYSE ,. S&P 500 842.50 +KI2 NIKKEI (Tokyo) ,,;0.8,9~J~IIlF4f}ii·!ii' FTSE 100 (London) 4,029.67 -95.30 
COMPANY "loCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA {BAC) +4.97 +.036 7.60 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.99 +0.83 84.26 CITIGROUP INC (C) +4.01 +0.11 2.85 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +12.15 +0.78 7.20 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +5.63 +0.155 2.91 13-WEEK BILL +5.26 +0.100 0.20 30-YEAR BOND +4.03 +0.144 3.72 5-YEAR NOTE +8.33 +0.145 1.89 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.13 52.51 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -11.60 89730 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.03 88.83 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 100.7150 EURO 1.3556 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2253 BRffiSH POUND 1.4897 
IN BRIEF 
EU and U.S. discuss global economy 
PRAGUE -The European Union says it has been pulling together as a bloc and joining forces with the United States to deal with the consequences of the global eco­nomic downturn. 
European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso says "we are working together" with Washington to find the best way out of the crisis. 
Barroso says the 27-nation bloc has demonstrated "European unity, and in a certain sense, global unity" as it scrambles to respond to the meltdown. 
Barroso described the EU's ties with the United States as "by far the most important economic relationship in the world," with $2 billion per day spent trading in goods and services. 
He spoke Sunday to reporters after President Barack Obama's summit with EU leaders in Prague. 
Bailout to cost more than anticipated 
WASHINGTON -Bailing out the financial sector will cost taxpayers $16 7 billion more than originally anticipated, according to a Congressional Budget Office estimate. 
The original figure in January was $189 billion, but it is now $356 billion -$152 bil­lion more for 2009 and $15 billion more next year, the CBO says in its March report updat­ing the budget and economic outlook. 
The CBO raised its projection because yields have increased on securities issued by the bailed-out financial institutions under the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program. 
That means there will be an increase in the cost of the subsidy from the U.S. Treasury's purchase of preferred stock, asset guaran­tees and loans to automakers, the CBO said. 
In addition, since the CBO issued its origi­nal cost estimate for the program, the Treasury announced additional deals with Bank of America and American International Group. 
Those deals will be at rates higher than the averages in the CBO's original estimate. Also going up: the subsidy rates in the adminis­tration's $50 billion program to deal with home foreclosures. 
GM is open to idea of bankruptcy 
New CEO Fritz Henderson says he will do what is necessary to save company 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. is softening its opposition to bankruptcy reorganization a little more. 
"If it's required, that's what we'll do," new Chief Executive Fritz Henderson said in an interview broad­cast Sunday, but noted that GM still would prefer to avoid bankruptcy protection while restructuring. 
President Barack Obama and his auto industry task force have indicated that bankruptcy protection "may very well be the best solution for the company to achieve these goals," Henderson told CNN's "State of the Union." 
That is why, he said, "when you look at the situa­tion, we said, 'OK, we'll spend the time to try to com­plete the work, more aggres­sive work, outside of the court process, but if it's required, that's what we'll 
do."' 
Obama had said GM's ini­tial plans to become viable didn't go far enough. Last week, he told the company it had 60 days to make more cuts and get more conces­sions from bondholders and unions, or it won't get any more government help. 
The administration also forced out Rick Wagoner as chief executive; Henderson Treasury Secretary needs and that excites ny needed to cut more, and took over on March 29. Timothy Geithner, asked on them," he said on "Meet the faster. 
Henderson said the gov­CBS' "Face the Nation" Press." "And it's our job to That conclusion is "cer­ernment's guarantee of GM Sunday if he agreed with make sure we provide that tainly going to require us to warranties and its indication Henderson that bankruptcy and as I look at it, not neces­be leaner than we had even that it would lend money to is a possibility, said several sarily have it mandated or foreseen in February," he the automaker while it reor­options "could work." otherwise encouraged." said. The numbers haven't ganized under bankruptcy "Our test is, what's going Also, Henderson said that been finalized, but they protection are both "strong to work," he said. "What's unlike Wagoner, he will not would amount to a "signifi­signals which say even if we going to help bring about the work for $1 a year. He is cant additional change for have to go through bank­kind of restructuring, allow paid $1.3 million, a salary the company," he said. ruptcy, the company's going them to emerge stronger and which was cut 30 percent as Henderson is aiming to to be there." be part of this American part of what he called shared minimize the amount of time 
He told NBC's "Meet the economy. We want them to sacrifices at the auto maker. GM relies on taxpayer Press" that GM needs to "go be part of our future." The Detroit automaker money. deeper and we need to go Henderson also said he said in February it was aim­"One of the saddest days of faster" in its restructuring. does not believe the adminis­ing to shrink U.S. employ­my career was when we 
"We either accomplish this tration should encourage ment to 72,000 by 2012, needed to borrow money job outside of bankruptcy in Americans to buy U.S.-made down from 92,000 hourly from the U.S. taxpayer," he the short term, or alterna­cars. and salaried employees at said. "And I'm quite con­tively, if it's necessary, we'll "I think the consumer the end of last year. vinced that one of the happi­go into bankruptcy in order should buy exactly what kind Henderson said the auto task est days of my career is to get this job done," he said. of car they think meets their force concluded the compa-when we repay it." 

Jobless will exhaust unemployment aid 
Associated Press expect the jobless rate, already at 8.5 That so many people have remained 
percent, to hit 10 percent by year's end. on jobless aid for more than a year 
WASHINGTON -In the coming "It's going to be a monstrous prob­underscores the depth and duration of weeks and months, hundreds of thou­lem," Vroman said. the recession, which began in sands of jobless Americans will exhaust U.S. employers shed 663,000 jobs in December 2007. If the downturn their unemployment benefits, just March, and the jobless rate now stands extends into May, it will be the longest when it's never been harder to find a at its highest in a quarter-century. recession since the Great Depression. job. Since the recession began in December The jobs crisis it has created has 
Congress extended unemployment 2007, a net total of 5.1 million jobs proved worse than most economists aid twice last year, allowing people to have disappeared. forecast -not to mention what law­draw a total of up to 59 weeks of bene­Those who know that their unem­makers expected when they extended fits. Now, as the recession drags on, a ployment aid is about to run out are jobless benefits last year. rolling wave of people who were laid counting the days, taking on odd jobs, In March, nearly a quarter of the off early last year will lose them. moving in with relatives and fretting unemployed had been without work for 
Precise figures are hard to deter­about the future. six months or more, the highest pro­mine, but Wayne Vroman, an econo­"My biggest fear is we'll lose the portion since the 1981-82 recession. mist at the Urban Institute, estimates house," said Hernan Alvarez, 54, an And the problem will probably get that up to 700,000 people could Orlando, Fla., construction worker who even worse. Employers typically exhaust their extended benefits by the lost his job in July and whose benefits remain reluctant to hire even months second half of this year. will end in four weeks. "The only thing after a recession has officially ended. In 
Some will find new jobs, but I can do is keep looking for work and the 1990-91 and 2001 recessions, the prospects will be grim: Layoffs are pro­hope tomorrow will be better than jobless rate peaked more than a year jected to go on, and many economists today." after the recovery began. 
r 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 6, 2009 
Metallica,Run--DMCindudeciintoHall
Schools make plans for stimulus money 
Federal dollars to be usedfor nwre energy-efficient classroom buildings, windows, light bulbs 
Associated Press 
MENDOTA HEIGHTS, Minn. ­The candy machine at Henry Sibley High School knows when students roam the halls and automatically powers down when they've gone home. The basketball court still shines, but under the glow of fluorescent tubes that suck up a fraction of the juice the old lights used. 
Thanks to such measures, energy costs across the school district in this Twin Cities suburb already are down by nearly a third. Officials want to trim the expenses even more, but that will require investment in upgrades. 
The federal economic stimulus dollars could be just what they need. Some of the billions of dol­lars trickling down from Washington will be used to make public buildings more energy efficient. School officials hope long-term savings can sprout from those one-time upgrades ­the types of projects that get shoved aside when budgets are squeezed and tax levies fail. 
"The money we spend on elec­tric, water, gas and oil -those dollars compete with dollars for textbooks and teachers," said Jay Haugen, superintendent of the West St. Paul-Mendota Heights-Eagan district. 
The economic stimulus pack­age contains $6.3 billion for state and local governments to make energy usage more effi­cient, including in public build­ings. Schools are eligible for some of that -in addition to a $22 billion zero-interest bond program for school eonstruction projects created in the recovery package. Nationwide, there are roughly 80,000 public school buildings. 
While state governments know how much money they'll receive, details about how the money will get from Washington to Main Street schools haven't been worked out. Schools in many states will have to compete with other public buildings for energy dollars, and in most cases proj­ects will require local matching funds. 
Steve Nadel, executive director of the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, said the conversation about how best to spend the money is just get­ting started, and it's likely to play out differently in every state. But he expects schools to be in a prime position to snag dollars for simple things, such as new light bulbs and windows, and pricier projects including more efficient furnaces and new roofs. 
School officials in Idaho are batting around ideas for spend­ing up to $24 million of the ener­gy money on projects focusing on schools. Paul Kjellander, admin­istrator of the state's Office of Energy Resources, said a sizable chunk could be used to install solar panels on school buildings. 
Boise school district leaders want to tap into the pot to rid their buildings of drafty win­dows, power-wasting lighting and inefficient heating and cool­ing systems. Savings, however modest, could be critical for a district about to lay off 122 full­and part-time teachers. 
Wayne Davis, a former super­intendent who now directs the Idaho Association of School Administrators, said lowered utility costs would free up money for higher-priority initiatives. "It's things like class size reduc­tion," he said. 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 

Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574) 234-2436 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Metallica shoved the mosh pit into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. 
Heavy metal's heaviest hit­ters, whose menacing, mon­strous sound has banged heads around the globe for decades, were inducted into rock's shrine on Saturday night, capping a star-studded ceremony that felt much more like a concert than an awards show. 
For the first time, the no­holds-barred show, back in Cleveland following a 12-year holdover in New York's Waldorf-Astoria ballroom, was open to the public. 
And nearly 5,000 fans par­tied in the balconies inside renovated Public Auditorium as 1,200 YIPs dined below at 
tables  costing  as  much  
$50,000 each.  
Many of the came  to pay  

homage to Metallica, which earned top billing in an eclec­tic 2009 class that included rap pioneers Run-DMC, virtu­oso guitarist Jeff Beck, soul singer Bobby Womack and rhythm and blues vocal group Little Anthony and the Imperials. 
Metallica's members have survived some of the dark themes -death, destruction and desolation -that threads through its music, and their induction was a chance to cel­ebrate their legacy as perhaps the hardest band to ever walk the earth. The event also served as a reunion as bassist Jason Newsted, who left the group in 2001, joined his for­mer bandmates on stage for seering versions of "Master of Puppets" and "Enter Sandman." 
"Whatever the intangibles 
elements are that make a band the best, Metallica has them," said Red Hot Chili Peppers bassist Flea, who delivered a heartfelt speech in presenting the band. He recalled being on tour and hearing Metallica on the radio for the first time. 
"My mind was blown. It wasn't punk rock. It wasn't heavy metal. It just stood by itself," he said. "I didn't know what it was, but I knew it was a mighty thing." 
In accepting their awards, Metallica's members were joined by Ray Burton, the father of original bassist Cliff Burton, who died tragically in 1986 when the band's tour bus skidded off an icy road in Sweden. 
"Dream big and dare to fail, because this is living proof that it is possible to make a dream come true," said front­man-guitaristr James Hetfield, who then rattled off a long list of hard-rocking bands he feels deserve induction. 
"Deep Purple, Thin Lizzy, Rush, Kiss, Ted Nugent, Iron Maiden, Motorhead. We'd like to invite them through the door," said lletfield, who con­cluded his remarks by wrap­ping Ulrich in a bear hug. 
The evening ended with a jam for the ages as Metallica, Beck, Jimmy Page, Aerosmith's Joe Tyler and Flea brought the house down with a performance of the Yardbirds' "Train Kept A Rollin." 
A guitar virtuoso, Beck, who was previously inducted in 1992 with the Yardbirds, was put in for his solo work. Although best known for his rock accomplishments, Beck's career has wandered a fret­board of genres ranging from blues to jazz to electronica. 
"Jeff's style is totally unorthodox to the way anyone was taught," said Led Zeppelin's Jimmy Page, who presented his longtime friend. "He keeps getting better and better and better." 
Beck, wearing all white, was joined on stage by Page, a fel­low guitar god, who played bass during a searing rendi­tion of Zeppelin's "Immigrant Song." 
With two turntables and a microphone, Run-DMC broke down the barriers between rock and rap. With sparse, stripped-down lyrics above pounding beats, the trio of Joseph "DJ Run" Simmons, Darryl "D.M.C." McDaniels and Jason "Jam Master Jay" Mizell changed rap in the 1980s by taking the realities of the streets to the suburbs. 
"They broke away from the pack by being the pack," said rapper Eminem, looking like the band's lost member by sporting the group's trade­mark black fedora and black leather jacket. "They were the baddest of the bad and the coolest of the cool. Run-DMC changed my life." 
"There's three of them and if you grew up with hip hop like I did, they were the Beatles." 
Their remake and collabo­ration with Aerosmith on the rock band's "Walk This Way" changed modern music. 
"We were young guys with a new music that people thought was a fad, but we knew the culture was a way of life and we just lived it," McDaniels said. "The music that we made then didn't just impact friends, it impacted a generation. So I guess that's what rock and roll does." 





What is "Buzz" Marketing? 
Lessons on Word-of-Mouth Marketing 
by Emanuel Roten 
Author of National Bestseller 
ffThe Anatomy of Buzz Revisited" 

Monday, April 6, 2009 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
President's allybehind assassination 
Associated Press 
DUBAI -The assassination of a Chechen renegade -the first reported political killing in this glitzy city -was mas­terminded by a close ally of Chechnya's. president, Dubai authorities said Sunday, call­ing on Russia to untie "the knot of this crime." 
The allegation could have broad implications for President Ramzan Kadyrov, a former rebel now closely allied with the Kremlin and its campaign to quell a 14-year insurrection in Chechnya. 
One of his bitter foes, Sulim Yamadayev, was gunned down March 28 outside a busy resi­dential complex along Dubai's shoreline. 
His slaying was the latest assassination targeting Chechen renegades in and outside of Russia. Many observers have linked the killings to Kadyrov, who open­ly feuded with Yamadayev and his family. Kadyrov has denied involvement. 
Dubai Police Chief Lt. Gen. Dahi Khalfan Tamim said Chechen authorities have not cooperated and that "Russia is also responsible for untying the knot of this crime." 
Four suspects were in Russia and two others, an Iranian and a Tajik, were in custody, Tamim told reporters. None has been charged. 
One of the suspects at large was Adam Delimkhanov, a Chechen member of Russia's lower house of parliament who is considered one of Kadyrov's close friends and part of his inner circle, Tamim said. He has also served as a 
The Community ofSant'Egidio invites you to a 
Prayer for the Martyrs 
vice prime minister of Chechnya. 
A suspect in custody told authorities that Delimkhanov planned the slaying, Tamim said. A suspect also said Delimkhanov's guards provid­ed him with the gun used to kill Yamadayev, the police chiefsaid. · 
"Our investigation found him (Delimkhanov) to be the mas­termind of the assassination of Sulim Yamadayev," Tamim said. The police chief said Dubai will seek Interpol's help in arresting Delimkhanov and the three others. 
Delimkhanov, 39, denied involvement, accused Dubai's police of incompetence and said Yamadayev had many enemies, according to a state­ment issued by his spokesman. 
"I want to emphasize that I am a politician who for most of my life has battled terror­ism and that even in this instance, I am ready to pro­vide help to any justice sys­tem, including that of Dubai's," he said. 
It was not clear what Yamadayev was doing in Dubai, but the authorities said he arrived to the emirate four months ago on a Russian pass­port issued in the name of Sulaiman Madov. 
Though it's highly unlikely that Russia would turn Delimkhanov over to Dubai for prosecution, the allegations could further taint Kadyrov and the Kremlin's backing for him. 
He took over the presidency in 2007 -three years after his father, the former leader, was assassinated in a bomb blast. Since then, Kadyrov has presided over a virtual end to the large-scale fighting that destroyed the Chechen capital, Grozny, and sent thousands of Chechen refugees into neigh­boring North Caucasus republics. 
As he consolidated his power, Kadyrov and his para­military forces have been repeatedly accused of torture, rampant kidnapping of civil­ians and other human rights abuses. 
Many of his critics and polit­ical rivals have been killed. Some have been gunned down on the streets of Moscow, including journalist Anna Politkovskaya in 2006. 
Kadyrov has denied any involvement in the killings. The Kremlin also has ignored calls for international investi­gations into the human rights allegations. While president, Vladimir Putin awarded Kadyrov Russia's highest hon­orary medal. 
Yamadayev was also a con­tentious figure at home. Once a rebel leader battling Russia, he later switched sides and led a battalion of former rebels alongside the pro-Russian gov­ernment. 
Yamadayev had long-run­ning tensions with Kadyrov, which exploded in April 2008. Kadyrov accused Yamadayev of involvement in abductions and murders, and an arrest warrant for him was issued. 
Despite that, Yamadayev led his battalion to fight alongside the Russian military during Russia's war with Georgia last August. He was discharged from the Russian army shortly after. 
IRAQ 

Leaders will protect Palestinianresidents 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas won assurances Sunday that Iraqi leaders will protect Palestinians living in Iraq -including thou­sands stranded in desert refugee camps -during his first visit to the country since the U.S.-led invasion of 2003. 
The visit marked a major step in improving ties between the Shiite­led government of Iraq and the Palestinian leadership, which had warm relations with the ousted regime of Saddam Hussein. 
"We would like to thank the Iraqi government for its concern about Palestinians living in lraq," Abbas told reporters after a meet­ing with President Jalal Talabani. 
Abbas, who also met with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, said Iraqi officials consider Palestinians liv­ing in lraq to be "part of the Iraqi people, so we believe that they are in safe hands." 
Palestinian exiles who fled to Iraq after the establishment of the state of Israel have been the tar­get of persecution since the fall of Saddam, largely because they were favored by his deposed regime. 
About 11,000 Palestinians still live in Iraq, mostly in Baghdad's Shiite district of Baladiyat. Hundreds of Palestinians, over­whelmingly Sunni, were slaugh­tered during the sectarian vio­lence of a few years ago in lraq. 
Several thousand remain 
PAKISTAN 

stranded at refugee camps along the Iraqi-Syrian border where they fled the sectarian massacres. Abbas' aide, Saeb Erekat, said a main reason for Abbas' visit was to discuss the legal situation of the Palestinians in those camps. 
Government spokesman Ali al­Dabbagh asserted the situation has improved for the Palestinians, including those in the camps. 
"The Iraqi government has dealt with and overcome this issue," al-Dabbagh said. "It is no more a problem, and now Palestinians in Iraq are sharing a normal life with Iraqis." 
For his part, Talabani said Iraq's U.S.-backed government affirms its support for an independent Palestinian state with Jerusalem as the capital. "Iraq takes a firm stand regarding this issue," Talabani said. 
Abbas praised Iraq's progress toward stability after six years of war, saying the country was wit­nessing "great progress in all walks of life." 
"This country has started pro­gressing and started recovering. It has gotten out of the bottleneck, thanks be to God," Abbas said. 
The visit comes as violence has dramatically dropped in Iraq, though Iraq's security forces con­tinue to be targelo;; of insurgents. 
Six gunmen in two cars blocked the vehicle of an Iraqi police brigadier general Sunday evening in east Baghdad and shot him dead, police said. The gunmen escaped. 
Taliban threatens two attacksperwrekinCDlil1by 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD -A suicide bombing at a crowded Shiite mosque south of Pakistan's cap­ital killed 22 people Sunday, the latest evidence of how security in the U.S.-allied nation is crumbling well beyond the Afghan border region where al­Qaida and Taliban fighters thrive. 
The violence came as a senior Pakistani Taliban commander said his group was behind a deadly suicide bombing Saturday night in Islamabad and promised two more attacks per week in the country if the 
U.S. does not stop missile strikes on Pakistani territory. 
Sunday's suicide bomber set off his explosives at the entrance to a mosque in Chakwal city in Punjab province, some 50 miles (80 kilometers) south of Islamabad, said Nadeem Hasan Asif, a top security official in the province. The blast killed 22 and wound­ed dozens, he said. 
A little-known group believed linked to the Pakistani Taliban claimed it had staged the attack. Pakistan also has a his­tory of sectarian violence, often involving Sunni extremists tar­geting minority Shiite Muslims. 
TV footage showed pools of blood in front of the mosque. Torn clothes and shoes littered the ground, while at least one car and four motorcycles were damaged. A policeman with bandaged legs and a wounded man wearing a bloodstained shirt were shown on hospital beds crying in pain. A woman standing in the emergency ward of the hospital wailed, "Oh my God! Oh my God!" 
Farid Ali said he was leaving the mosque when he felt the blast on his back. 


Icon of 20th Century martyrs ····u full-sized reproduction will be used dur.ing prayer 
Monday, April 6, 2009 
7:00 prn 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE -St. Joseph Chapel Chapel is visible from Inain College entrance 
Continuing a tradition started in Rome, and cnt~ouraged by .John Paul II, this prayer remembers the f~Jithful of all Christian traditions who hm>'e shed their blood for the sake of the Gospel in the 2oth and 21st Centuries. 
"At the end nl the second millennium, the Church has once ttQain lwcome a Churd! ()( mw·tw·~ ...The witness to Christ hnrne even to the shedding of blood has become a conmwn inheritance of C.rtholics. Orthodox. Anglicans and Protestants."' (,fohn Paul lL Tl\tA, 37) 
F(.w{lwtlwr injomwtion, contact lloly Cmss Campus Afinistry 574 239 8315 or Community o{Sant"Euidio £It 574 :J15 9420 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 6, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Downsizing our food, 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

our culture and ourselves 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley SPOIITS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@>nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpointl@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENf: DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffei@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POUCIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to EditoNn-Chieffenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsc:rvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) .is published Mmday through Friday cxccpr during exam and vaa~rlon periods. A subscription ro 11\l:: ObserveF is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semesrer. 
The Ob:saver Upublished .at; POSTMASTER 
024 Soom Dining Hall ~nd addJ:eos <XItrecrions to: 
Notre Dame. IN -t6556-0779 The~ 
Periodical posug: paid at: Notre Dame P.O.Box77'1 and additional m..tiling offices. 024 Soum Dining H.U 
Notte D.mc, IN 46556-0779 
lbc Observer is a member ofrhc. ~sociolled Pas:s. All rcproducllim righu; arc rtsoerved, 

Downsizing in business terms usual­ly carries negative connotations; it means losing jobs, losing space, losing revenue. 
Downsizing in houses means either your children moved out or you lost your job. It can be good -that you just don't need the space -but it's somehow still against our American bigger-is­better mentality. 
Downsizing in gen­eral tends to get a bad rap. 
But downsizing is exactly what we need right now. Our country is huge; a massive coordination of interests, regions and ideas, but not everything about us needs to be as massive as our waist­lines and our supermarkets. 
A lot of movements picked up this idea long before the economic melt­down. One of the biggest actors in the downsizing movement has been the food industry. Small farms move­ments, Slow Food, organic, compost­ing and opposition groups to industri­al agriculture have all propelled the ideas of reestablishing connections with the food you eat and where it comes from, downsizing from the big agribusiness to a more manageable, more personal way of getting your 

Jackie 
Mirandola­
Mullen 
Chlorojilled Cardboard 
food. 
This movement started in America as a social novelty for those who could afford it, but it's not usually "organic" or buying the nature brand that downsizes the process. Hather, the idea that you go directly to the source: farmers markets, farms, stores buying local crops, eating in season. You don't need the gigantic apple that looks like all the others. There's no individuality there, no idea of a tree or the dirt or the farmer. Ilow could any of us imagine the farm that can produce such homogenous giants? 
That's not a fancy sticker or a class symbol, it's knowing where your food comes from. It hasn't been that long since we had more contact with the source of our food, which fosters (feeds?) a direct appreciation for the food itself. According to a 2007 study by the USDA, 48 percent of farm product sales are made by the less than two percent of American farms that have yearly sales of $1 million or more. 
Food from these farms has to be shipped to market, which is far away if the farm produces that much. That's bad for the environment because of shipping, it's bad for the food itself because it loses freshness in the transport and it's bad for the price of the food down the line all the way to the individual consumer. 
But downsizing of these farms would mean more farms. Maybe that necessitates more farmers, but does­n't that mean more jobs? Farms in the proximity of cities and within suburbs mean open space and greenery. It means the occasional manure smell, but it also means corn mazes (maize mazes?) and fresh pumpkins and apples in the fall. 

Downsizing of the economy itself means smaller businesses. It means less impersonality, less apathy towards work, less feeling lost in the crowd. It means more unstable busi­nesses at first, but if we can localize those businesses it can ensure stabili­ty while also providing a much-need­ed sense of community that can get lost in the suburban labyrinths. 
Downsizing our food begins the downsizing of our lives. It means less business, less rush, less pollution, less hectic, less time in the car, more time with your family. Maybe incorporating this downsizing in how we get our food can initiate its spread to all areas of our life. We keep falling and falling in this economy, but if we can get down to the basics, wouldn't we have an easier time picking ourselves back up when the bottom gives out? 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a junior German and History major who is currently studying in lnnsbruck, Austria. She is a big fan of Tirolische apples. She can be contacted at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Sam Werner Becky Hogan Mike Gotimer Laura McCrystal Chris Masoud 
"America is a large, friendly dog 
Graphics Scene 

in a very small room. Every time 
Mary Cecilia Patrick Griffin 

it wags its tail it knocks 
Mitsch over a chair. " Viewpoint 
Arnold J. Toynbee
Lianna 

British historian
Brauweiler 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The one thing I do not want to be 
called is First Lady. It sounds
to the Editor at 
like a saddle horse. " 

Jacqueline Kennedy-Onassis 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
former U.S. First Lady 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, April 6, 2009 page 11 
The tyranny of the TSA 
We live in an Orange Alert world. Though it's been over seven years since a terrorist attack has taken place on American soil, the "threat level" for avia­tion security remains at "Orange," signify­ing a "high risk of ter­rorist attack" on the Ben Linskey federal government's absurdly Orwellian, College color-coded Homeland Libertarians Security Advisory System. Aviation security, of course, is serious business. But much of what goes on at airport security checkpoints has less to do with preventing terrorism than with simply presenting the illusion that some­thing is being done to keep passengers safe, a practice which security expert Bruce Schneier calls "security theater." Everyone's heard stories of 90-year-old grandmothers being pulled aside to have their sewing kits thoroughly scrutinized by the watchful agents of the Transportation Security Administration. It's easy to laugh at such incidents, but our current airport security practices are no joke. Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the federal government has operated an aviation security regime that simultaneously fails to prevent real threats and infringes upon Americans' constitutional rights. 
The sad truth is that the TSA's current airport security system is ill-equipped to thwart a determined terrorist. A 2007 review conducted by the Government Accountability Office found that "investi­gators succeeded in passing through TSA security screening checkpoints undetected with components for several improvised explosive devices ... and an improvised incendiary device ... concealed in their carry-on luggage and on their persons." Such failures are to be expected. A gov­ernment bureaucracy like the TSA has lit­tle incentive to develop effective security measures. Everyone, of course, wants to prevent terrorism. But in the short-term, the TSA's main objective is to look like it's doing something in order to satisfy the public demand for action. Meanwhile, the agency has no competition and faces few consequences for failure. 
Sadly, ineffectiveness isn't the TSA's only problem. In its attempts to increase secu­rity, the organization has trampled upon Americans' civil liberties. The Fourth Amendment to the Constitution prohibits unreasonable search and seizure and requires the federal government to obtain a warrant before invading a citizen's pri­vacy. Yet when we enter an airport, we permit government agents to rummage through our possessions, order us to remove our clothing, herd us through metal detectors and pat us down, all with­out the least indication that we have bro­ken a law. In our quest for security, we have allowed the state to disregard our nation's Constitution and to violate our most basic freedoms -the very liberties so hated by the terrorists we seek to deter. 
A recent incident provides a disturbing example of what happens when we allow the federal government to ignore the basic restraints embodied in the Bill of Rights. Steve Bierfeldt, a political activist affiliated with Congressman Ron Paul's Campaign for Liberty, was detained at a St. Louis air­port and questioned by TSA agents because he was carrying $4,700 in cash. Possessing large sums money, of course, is perfectly legal, but the federal agents who harassed Bierfeldt apparently weren't concerned with such a minor detail. The unlucky traveler managed to use his cell phone to record most of the interrogation, and the audio is widely available on the Internet. On the tape, TSA agents can be heard asking Bierfeldt an array of intru­sive and irrelevant questions. Bierfeldt responded by calmly and civilly asking if he was legally required to share the infor­mation. The agents replied with foul and abusive language and threatened to bring him to other federal agencies for further questioning. After all, they said, if he was innocent, why wouldn't he want to answer their questions? Never mind that Bierfeldt was being harassed by government agents who were violating his Constitutional rights-the law apparently doesn't apply in airports, where Soviet-style intimida­tion is the rule. 
Incidents such as Bierfeldt's unlawful detainment expose a government uncon­cerned with upholding the basic laws and principles upon which our nation was founded. Federal airport security does lit­tle more than violate our rights while infringing upon our freedoms. Thankfully, there's a simple solution to this problem: privatization. There's no reason that air­lines couldn't handle security themselves by hiring private businesses to screen for threats. Such a system would introduce competition, providing an incentive for security organizations to constantly improve their methods. Furthermore, because a single successful terrorist attack would put a firm out of business, there would be no room for the type of failure repeatedly displayed by the TSA. At the same time, passengers would be free to choose to fly at airports and air­lines that used non-intrusive security measures, instead of being forced through the federal government's invasive, one­size-fits-all system. There's no good rea­son for the federal government to be in the business of airport security. It's time for Congress to defend our constitutional liberties and turn aviation security over to private airlines, which are better equipped protect passengers than an incompetent and tyrannical government agency. 

Ben Linskey. a sophomore majoring in political science and philosophy, is co-president ofthe College Libertarians. He can be contacted at blinskey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Etnployer intitnidation 
I am writing in response to Brian Benjamin's April1letter "Unions May be the Problem." He argues that the Employee Free Choice Act will create a situation in which unions will coerce workers to sign cards. Despite his concern for the worker, he has a completely misguided view of the balance of power in the workplace. In fact, all of the power is in the hands of the people writing the checks (the employers) who often hire "union-busters," men and women whose job it is to help employers run anti-union campaigns. 
Employers can and do threaten and intimidate their workers into voting against a union. Many employers would rather violate the terms of the National Labor Relations Act and suffer the con­sequences than let their workers unionize. Statistics show that a worker in an organizing campaign has a one in five chance of being fired for union activity, despite the fact that employers know full well that it is illegal to do so. If workers are not fired, they are often forced into repeated, one-on-one, anti-union meetings with their supervisors in which they are coerced and threatened into voting against a union. What power does a union organizer have in coercing employees to sign a union card? They cannot threaten a worker's job or benefits; they have no power because they are not writing the checks. 
The Employee Free Choice Act will help to eliminate some of the extreme harassment that workers face in union campaigns. It will make the penalties harsher for employers who violate the law by firing workers or intimidating employ­ees. 
Fifty-three percent of non-unionized workers want a union (www.efca.org). However, because the power is in the hands of the employer, the process to form a union is far more difficult than it should be. Even if a secret ballot election is conducted and a majority of workers vote in favor of a union, 44 percent of the time they can­not get a first contract. Employers often use vari­ous tactics to delay or halt negotiations with their employees in order to avoid making the changes that the workers want. 
In his letter, Benjamin notes that he is not alone in his opinion; Democratic Senator George McGovern is against the EFCA as well. With the backlash from corporate America, Benjamin and McGovern find themselves standing with corpo­rate CEOs across the nation, including the extremely vocal former Wal-Mart CEO Lee Scott. These CEOs, who in fact have contracts them­selves to protect their grossly inflated pay and benefitc;;, are often the people who lead anti­union campaigns of intimidation and harassment in their businesses. As for the rest of America, 73 percent support the act. 
Luckily for Benjamin, ifemployees find that their rightc;; are being ignored, and they are being coerced by union representatives because of the card check system, workers can still choose to have a secret ballot election instead. However, I think we will find that this is not even an issue. 
Sarah Furman sophomore Welsh Family Hall Aprill 
EFCA dangerous 
The Employee Free Choice Act (EFCA) will allow non-union workers to 
immediately unionize if over 50 percent of the workforce signs union 
authorization cards. These cards are signed and turned over to the union 
so that an accurate count may be made. Currently, the National Labor 
Relations Act requires a vote by private ballot to be held as soon as the 
union can demonstrate that 30 percent of the workers have signed a card. 
Under EFCA, no such process would occur. The union would simply be 
required to obtain, by either coercion or extravagant promises, the signed 
cards of half the employees. Currently, less than eight percent of private 
sector workers belong to unions, a number that has been falling for 
decades. 

In her March 31letter ("Unions a necessity"), Sarah Lyons explains this is because "employers hire anti-union consulting firms, hold captive-audi­ence meetings and even fire employees to intimidate others." But the National Labor Relations Board, which fields these complaints, rejects 
·almost all of the allegations after inspection.. Eo.r e~aJ11ple, in 2005, the 
NRLB found evidence of illegal firings in only 2.7 percent"ofthe organizing 
campaigns that took place that year. 

This bill will also impose a 120-day deadline for companies to sign a labor contract-after which government arbitrators would dictate labor contracts. An example of this can be seen in the U.S. Postal Service (USPS), thanks to the Postal Reorganization Act of 1970. For years, most USPS contract negotiations have deadlocked and have gone to arbitration. The result has been costly contracts with no linkage to productivity improvement, cost reduction or product pricing. Salaries and benefits continue to rise, while mail volume and revenue decrease. 
If EFCA passes, it will create conditions whereby employees are liable to be badgered and intimidated into signing authorization cards and employ­ers will be forced into accepting contracts that are apt to fiscally ham­string them. In today's economy, the risks of EFCA are just too great. 
Kiel Hockett senior Dillon Hall March 31 


Sotnething to be proud of 
I am fond of many traditions from my home state of Iowa. It seems, however, that the rest of the world is not very familiar with these traditions. The word "supper," not "dinner," draws amused stares for its parochial ring and I have yet to find a fellow Notre Dame (non-Iowan) student who can share my joy in the idea of creek-stomping, mushroom hunting or what the butter cow will look like this summer. 
Yes, despite the obscurity of these traditions outside of my home state, I am proud of them. With the over­turn of a 2007 court ruling banning same-sex mar­riages on Friday, one of Iowa's traditions has been placed in the public spotlight. I am talking, of course, about the tradition of promoting equality in social issues. Iowa "was among the first states to legalize interracial marriage and to allow married women to own property. It was also the first state to admit a woman to the bar to practice law and was a leader in school desegregation" (Amy Lorentzen, "Iowa Supreme Court Legalizes Gay Marriage"). 
Now, Iowa has become the third state in the nation -and the first state in the midwest -to legalize same-sex marriages. The unanimous decision of Iowa Supreme Court justices keeps with a tradition of leadership in social issues. If only one of Iowa's tradi­tions is noticed outside of the state, I am glad that it is this tradition. Assuredly, the rest of the world will not care which team wins the traditional Cy-Hawk game this year and the rest of the student body will continue to ridicule me for my fondness of "supper." I hope, however, that they will all take notice of the precedent that has been set for social equality and strive to further promote this ideal. Yes. Now, more than ever, I am proud to be an Iowan. 
Kirsten Adam freshman Welsh Family Hall April3 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 6, 2009 

MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

By MAIJA GUSTIN cool-and-emotionally-unavailable" girl Eisenberg plays James in the same awk­ing at the park. His presence alone gives Scene Writer that he just can't help but fall for. She's ward vein as Michael Cera, but seems the movie some extra weight. Ryan also sleeping with Adventureland's mar­more genuine. He is adorable but never Heynolds, while not a very likeable or 
"Adventureland," written and directed ried handyman Connell (Ryan Reynolds). seems infallible. Unlike so many protago­important character, provides Em with by "Superbad's" Greg Mottola, is the sort The movie has plenty of laughs, particu­nists of these types of movies, he makes her much-needed emotional vulnerability. of coming-of-age, eccentric-boy-meets­larly from Bill Hader and the same mistakes that real Mottola, who also wrote cool-girl movie that people just seem to Kristen Wiig, but it's more people actually do, and "Adventureland," gave his semi-autobio­eat up these days. But don't let Mottola's of a nostalgic tale about those mistakes aren't just graphical film a necessary taste of "Superbad" credit mislead you -this finding yourself than a letting the perfect girl get authenticity. It's this authenticity that definitely isn't "Superbad." Jesse screwball comedy. The away. keeps the film from being a cliche. Eisenberg plays the very real, very not­jokes, when they happen, Em, as said perfect girl, "Adventurnland" looks fondly back on a cool, Renaissance studies major that gets are pretty laugh-worthy. isn't all that perfect herself. time, 22 years ago, that many loved, stuck working at a Pittsburgh amusement "Adventureland" is root­Stewart some hated and plenty just park over the summer in 1987. But ed in an 80s soundtrack n e v e r never got to see. It's remi­Adventureland, the amusement park in (count how many times seems like ''Adventure land" niscent of "American question, turns out to not be so bad when you hear Falco's "Rock Me she's acting. seems less bent on Graffiti" and "Dazed and he meets Em ("Twilight's" Kristen Amadeus"), and has ller idiosyn­Confused." But while those
showing the 8os and
Stewart). She plays the prototypical 'Tm-enough sly references to maybe make you crasies just make her opened up a new genera­
The movie has plenty oflaughs, but it's more ofa nostalgic tale about finding yourself than a screwball comedy. 
Adventu reland 

Director: Greg Mottola Starring: Jesse Eisenberg, Kristen Stewart, Bill Hader, Kristen Wiig 
wish you had grown up more sincere as a charac­more interested in tion to their cultural prede­in the 80s. Maybe. But ter. She gives Em a heart showing how the 8os cessors, "Adventureland" it is this seemingly and the rare glimpses of seems less bent on showing
weren't really all that 
authentic portrayal of vulnerability in her other­the 80s and more interested growing up way back wise invulnerable charac­long ago, even though in showing how the 80s when that will appeal to ter that the audience real­they sort ofwere. weren't really all that long the older generation not ly needs to see. But ago, even though they sort drawn in by Mottola's James' and Em's flaws fit of were. These kids are the tie to "Superbad." perfectly together. Unfortunately, the same as now; trying to grow up too fast 
The characters, audience knows it's right before either of and thinking they know everything about though, drive the story them does. life. "Adventureland" is close to nostalgia more than any 80s rock Eisenberg and Stewart may be the at its best. Where it fails in being a soundtrack ever could. heart of "Adventureland," but the sup­supremely moving film, it has a whole lot They seem real, porting cast fills the movie out into some­of heart. Mottola brings a fresh and fine­authentic and as cur­thing more than just a corny romance. tuned eye to his movie and proves that he rent as ever. They prove Hader and Wiig are perfect as the quirky shouldn't be pigeonholed as a go-to come­that young adolescence park owners, and their comedic timing is dy guy. wasn't really all that always right. Martin Starr ("Knocked different 20 years ago. Up") is Joel, another literaturn bufl' work-Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
By CORNELIUS ROGERS 
Scene Writer 
Are you one of the many people who loves "Little Miss Sunshine?" If so, then you may be wondering what "Sunshine Cleaning," which opened this weekend, has to do with it. The film's marketing campaign tried to attach itself as much as possible to "Little Miss Sunshine" (LMS), including 
Sunshine Cleaning 
Director: Christine Jeffs Starring: Amy Adams, Emily Blunt, SteveZahn 

caoss 

a similar title with similar font and Alan Arkin reprising his role as the grandfather -although probably not in an Oscar-winning performance this time. 
The film's trailer made the film out to be a movie that, like LMS, would com­bine hilarity with serious drama. This is where the similarities between the two movies end. While LMS told a fair­ly upbeat and humorous story about a family's love for each other, "Sunshine Cleaning" tells a story 
about life's many messes, and the biggest one of all -death. 
The film's central character is Rose Lorkowski (Amy Adams) a single mother working as a maid hoping to earn enough money to send her child to school and acquire a real estate license for herself. Rose also struggles with her affair with married man Mae (Steve Zahn). Rose's less success­ful sister Norah (Emily Blunt) moves from job to job, and both were left emotionally traumatized by their mother's death when they 

cmMt 
were children. The two agree to run a crime seene cleanup business to earn more money. 
Tho job of removing the physical damages caused by death in other peo­ple's lives causes the two sisters to take a deeper look at the emotional damage left behind by their mother's death in their own lives. Rose realizes how pathetic her attempts to one-up her high school friends really are. Norah befriends Lynn (Mary Lynn Hajskub), the daughter of one of their crime scene's victims. 
Very little about the nim marks it as outstanding. The film leaves several of its plot Jines unresolved. Hose ends her affair with Mac, but does not find any successful romantic relationship, and Norah's relationship with Lynn (Mary Lynn Hajskub) collapses. Instead she goes on a road trip, an idea which pops into her head during the final minutes of the film. 
The film's redeeming qualities come from the wealth of acting talent. Amy Adams delivers a convincing perform­ance as the single mother dealing with 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

both inner and outer turmoil. Her moments of vulnerability are sure to evoke empathy from the viewers. However, the real talent in this film comes from Emily Blunt, an actress who has consistently delivered solid supporting actress performances, but has never had a definitive leading lady role. 
Blunt does an impressive job of bal­ancing the inner and outer frustration of her character while getting the viewer to laugh both with her and at her. If the f1lm will be nominated for any Academy Awards, it will surely be for her performance. 
The film's director and writer, Christine Jeffs and Megan Holley respectively, do not have many films on their resumes, and it shows. While the film delivers a few awkward laughs in a seemingly morbid narrative, its final message is as murky and muddled as the many crime scenes Rose and Norah clean up. 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Monday, April 6, 2009 page 13 


By JAMES DuBRAY Scene Writer 
Justin Townes Earle has been through, well, a heck of a lot more than you have. The first son of the rebel troubadour himself, Steve Earle, and the namesake of a country God, Earle was born with colossal expecta­tions. Between his father's escapades (seven marriages and a tough-to-kick drug habit) and his own penchant for getting high, Earle's post-adolescent years weren't a walk in the park either. Despite his somewhat recent problems, 

By ELLIE HALL Scene Writer 

Sometimes the best way to enjoy food is to mix it all together. From ice cream to salads to smoothies, every­thing tastes better blended. Today's dining hall recipes follow this same concept. Mix it up and enjoy! 
Mixed-up Oatmeal 

Oatmeal is a morning sta­ple, regardless of the dining hall. This delicious and nutritious breakfast dish can be made so much more enjoyable if you take advan­tage of your surroundings. 
Fill a bowl with oatmeal, but leave about an inch of which included getting kicked out of his father's backing band, Earle's soph­omore record seems to have borrowed a thing or two from fellow rebellious Southern son, Ryan Adams ("I've had a pretty hard life/ Such as easy heart"). 
Yet, Earle clearly hasn't left his past completely behind. In light of his cur­rent sobriety, Earle appears ready to acknowledge his mistakes and move forward. 
On the album's best track, "Mama's Eyes," Earle reveals, "I went down the same road as my old man" almost whispering beneath his brilliantly sim-
Midnight at the Movies 
Justin Townes Earle 
Label: Bloodshot Recommended Tracks: "Mama's Eyes," "Canl Hardly Watt," "Black Eyed Suzie" 
ple strumming. Yet, as the song continues, Earle gives a window into his recent optimism: "I've got my mama's eyes/ A long thin frame and a smile." 
"Midnight At The Movies" lasts barely 30 minutes. Yet, in this small stretch of time, Earle manages to provide a tour of raw blues and 
room from the top. 
Go to the waffle station and add a ladleful of maple syrup. 
Add a layer of raisins from the fruit and salad bar. 
Make your way to the spice rack and add two or three shakes of cinnamon to the top of your oatmeal. 
Procure a glass of milk and add about three table­spoons Uust a little bit). 
Mix it all together and enjoy your tasty breakfast! 
Mexican Fiesta Bowl 
A strange, yet delightful twist on KFC's Famous Bowls. The combination of mashed potatoes and sea­pre-rock country stylings, while pro­ducing an album that is notable in its cohesion. 
Earle's second record could not be more different than fellow indie peer Animal Collective's recent electro-pop explosion, yet it stands with "Merriweather Post Pavilion" as one of the few very good albums of 2009. 
In the middle of "MATM," Earle includes a half-minute finger picking demonstration as much to brag about his playing ability as to dictate a mood change. The instrumental separates the afore­mentioned "Mama's Eyes" from the album's only cover, the conspicuous enough "Can't Hardly Wait." 
Townes Earle's performance is a worthy take on one of Westerberg's best songs. Initially it seems odd to hear a traditional country appropriator covering perhaps America's greatest underground band. That's until the realization hits that even though Earle's album testifies to the heart of punk music better than any Fall Out Boy or All American Rejects record ever could. 
Ditties "Black-Eyed Suzy" and "What 
soned beef gives a Mexican kick to this new take on Shepherd's Pie. 
Get a large pasta bowl and add one large scoop of mashed potatoes 
Take your bowl to the Mexican food line and add one scoop of seasoned beef, a small dollop of sour cream, and a sprinkling of cheese. 
Add a large spoonful of corn from the steamed veg­etables section. 
Mix the different food together. 
Cheesy Potatoes 
Not the healthiest of snacks, but they're deli­cious! Get your cheese fry 

I Mean to You" display Earle's ability to write darn catchy tunes, while songs like "They Killed John Henry"and "Halfway to Jackson" are a testament to the rebel son's vintage country record collection. Yet the album's opener and closer form the themati­cal crux of the record. The former and title track reveals an opti­mistic Earle's take on what must be Tom Waits' favorite movie theater. The latter, "Here We Go Again," is the once in a career, 
rare view into an artist's heart and psyche. 
Singing with more confidence than anywhere on his first record, Earle reveals his opening mind commenting on a feeling that lies in all of us: the fear that anything of worth will soon disappear, the three in the morning thought that we're all destined to become victim to our failings. 
With his second record, Earle may be on the way to doing something his father has never done: proving himself wrong. 
Contact James DuBray at jdubray@nd.edu 
Earle may be on the way to doing something his father has never done: proving himself wrong. 

·HallDt-sh 
fix in the dining hall and avoid those late night crav­ings that send you cross­campus to Reekers. 
Find the form of fried potatoes that the dining hall is offering (the fried sea­soned potato cubes are the best, but any fries work well too). 
Get one of the small bowls used for Jell-0 and pudding and fill it with the Nacho cheese sauce from the Mexican food section. A lit­tle sour cream is good too. 
Dip and enjoy! 

Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to feature it! E-mail ehall4@nd. edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 6, 2009 
NBA 

Knicks knock Raptors out of playoff hunt 
Brewer leads the way for dominant Jazz with 23 points as Utah sweeps season serzes with New Orleans 
to keep the winning streak ing the distance and keeping
Associated Press 

going, we did the opposite the pressure on them," Duhon 
TORONTO -The New York tonight," Raptors forward said. "That's something we've Knicks and Toronto Raptors Shawn Marion said. struggled with all year is finish­ensured there won't he playoff Andrea Bargnani scored 18 ing games. I know we only have basketball in either city this points, Anthony Parker had 15 a few games left but we want to year. and Marion 13. do as good a job as we can of 
Wilson Chandler scored 17 Toronto had made the play­fixing the areas we've struggled points, David Lee added 16 offs in each of the past two with throughout the year." points and 10 rebounds and the years, losing in the first round Toronto led 34-33 after the Knicks beat the Raptors 112-each time. first quarter but fell behind in 103 on Sunday night, eliminat­"Would I like to be there? Of the second, shooting just 9-for­ing Toronto from the playoffs. course," Bosh said. "It's the best 30. The Knicks made four of 
It came one day after the basketball in the world. This five 3-pointers in the second to Knicks saw their postseason year we're going to have to. take a 65-54 lead at the half. hopes end with a 102-95 home watch. I'll just have to be a stu­"We gave them a lot of open loss to the Raptors. dent of the game and see how I looks early," Bosh said. "Once 
"They were just as long a shot can get better by watching they got their confidence, Q­as we were," Knicks guard other teams." Rich came in and really lit it up Chris Duhon said. "They needed The Knicks had lost 10 of 11 and Chandler hit a lot of tough a miracle, we needed a miracle coming in and briefly looked to shots too. When you give guys and we just ended those mira­be in danger of throwing anoth­open looks, especially early in cles for each other." er one away. Leading by 16, the game, they get that confi­
New York's victory snapped a New York missed seven straight dence and they're a little bit nine-game losing streak in shots to begin the fourth, allow­tougher to stop." Toronto. The Knicks had not ing Toronto to cut it to 92-85 Richardson scored 10 points won north of the border since with a 9-0 run. Richardson in the third, including a pair of March 5, 2004. ended the drought with a 3-3-pointers, as the Knicks took a 
"We just came out to play; it pointer with 8:47 left and 92-76lead into the fourth. wasn't revenge," Chandler said. Robinson followed with a 
Quentin Richardson scored 16 jumper, putting New York up by Utah 108, New Orleans 94 points, Jared Jeffries added 14 12. Ronnie Brewer scored 23 against a winning team in the of-25) in the quarter. Utah also and Nate Robinson scored 13 Toronto rallied again when points and the Utah Jazz com­Western Conference this season. ignited its transition offense for the Knicks, who snapped a Marion made a rare 3-pointer, pleted a convincing season David West had 23 points and with good defense, forcing six four-game losing streak and then followed it with a steal and sweep of the New Orleans 12 rebounds for New Orleans, early turnovers. Boozer twice won for the first time in six tries was fouled making a jumper, Hornets with their victory on which could have clinched a stole the ball from West. on the road. cutting it to 103-96. But Marion Sunday night. . playoff spot with a victory, but Williams tied up Paul near half­
Chris Bosh had 31 points and failed to convert the three-point Deron Williams had 21 points instead lost its second straight court. Paul showed his frustra­14 rebounds for Toronto, whose play and AI Harrington replied and 11 assists for Utah, which game. Chris Paul had 19 points tion by complaining to officials, season-high six-game winning with New York's 13th 3-pointer. led by 30 in the second quarter and 12 assists for the Hornets, who called a technical foul on streak came to an end. "Guys hit key shots for us and snapped a three-game skid who lost all three games against him. 
"All the things we were doing down the stretch, kind of keep-with its first road victory Utah this season by double-digit When Kirilenko sank a 3­margins. pointer to close out scoring in 
Utah, currently seventh in the the quarter, the home fans were Western Conference, used a booing, and the Hornets didn't well-rounded effort to pull with­do much to change that in the in a half-game of New Orleans second period. Matt Harpring's for the sixth spot. Andrei free throws, followed by his Kirilenko, starting because C.J. short hook over Morris Miles was out with a dislocated Peterson, capped an 8-0 run left index finger, scored 16 that put Utah ahead by 30 with points. Carlos Boozer had 10 4:24 still remaining in the half. points and 10 rebounds, and Soon after, Paul was called for Mehmet Okur scored 18 points. his third foul and came out. 
For a team that had yet to Unable to respond with any sus­beat a Western Conference tained runs of their own, the playoff contender on the road Hornets trailed 66-39 at half­this season, Utah came out time. brimming with confidence, per­New Orleans made a bid to haps seeking redemption for an climb back into the game in the unlikely loss at home to strug­third quarter, outscoring Utah gling Minnesota on Friday 37-21 during the period to pull night. to 87-76 heading into the fourth 
Utah outscored New Orleans quarter. 41-19 in the first quarter, mark­West had 10 points in the ing the most points allowed by period, mostly on midrange the Hornets in a quarter this jump shots, while Paul scored season. Okur had 13 points dur­eight points and set up eight ing those first 12 minutes and other scores, including an alley­Brewer had 12, each hitting an oop to Rasual Butler, who fin­array of shots from inside and ished with 21 points. Peja the perimeter. Williams, mean­Stojakovic, playing as a reserve while, had eight assists and in his second game since seven points in the period. returning from an ailing back, 
The Jazz shot 76 percent (19-added a pair of 3-pointers. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
One or two roommates needed for brand new 3 BR 3 Bath Condo at Irish Crossings fully furnished. $500 per mo. incl. utilities -wire­less, gas, water, electric and park­ing. Private BR/Bath, gym. Ten min walk to campus five min walk to stores. 
Non-smoker, no pets. animalcop01 @gmail.com 
FoR RENT 

andersonNDrentals.com 
FREE COMCAST! Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. 
Contact Kramer at 57 4-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. 
$1300-$2000/mo. 
Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­3537. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Assistance tor Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safety/assis­tance-tor -pregnant -students. 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: 
http://osa.nd.edu/health­satety/assault/ 

ADOPTION-Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James 
(301 }977-5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
In the middle of the night, I go walking in my sleep, From the mountains of faith, To a river so deep, I must be looking tor something, Something sacred I lost. But the river is wide, And it's too hard to cross 
Even though I know the river is wide, I walk down every evening and I stand by the shore I try to cross to the opposite side, So I can finally find what I've been looking for 


CoMPilED FROMTHE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
=========================··=·························-....-......=.=······=······=·······=·····-=···-==============
........c::-::::::c:::::::::cc= 


PGA TouR 

IWLCA Women's Tennis ITA Division I Rankings 
team points previous 
,.:l:. 2 Georgia 79 2 
1 Northwestern 87 
a··:: ......
3 NOTRE DAME 72 4 Baylor 69 4 5 Miami (Fla.) 67 5 6 Georgia Tectt 67 ·:q{:::: '"ti··· 
7 Southern California 65 10 8 eamomia 65 8 9 Duke 63 7 10 Stanford 55 11 11 Clemson 53 12 u UClA 52 g 13 Tennessee 46 13 14 Fresno. St. 44 15 15 Arkansas 43 23 16 Florida 41 14 17 Florida Sl. 39 25 18 North Carolina 38 18 19 Vanderbilt 37 NR 20 Kentucky 37 19 

NCAA Men's Volleyball Division 1-11 Top 15 
team 

1 2 
3 
4 
5 Stanford 

6 BYU 
7 Long Beach st. 
8 Pennst, · 
9 UClA 
10 UC San Diego 
11 lewis 
12 uc santa Barbara 13 Hawaii 
14 Ohio St. 
15 Loyota(UI;) 

around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball Championship 
Michigan State vs. North Carolina 9 p.m., CBS 
MLB 
Chicago Cubs at Houston 7:00p.m., ESPN2 

Associated Press 
HUMBLE, Texas -Paul Casey finally considers himself one of the world's top golfers, just in time for the Masters. 
Casey won the Shell Houston Open on Sunday for his first PGA Tour vic­tory, beating J.B. Holmes with a bogey on the first playoff hole. The 31-year­old Englishman has nine international victories since 2001, but had never won in the United States. The victory boosted Casey from No. 12 to No. 6 in the world rankings, a career high. 
"It's time to start believ­ing I can be a top 10 play­er in the world and maybe I can be in the top five," Casey said. "We'll see when we get there. Clearly, I just took a little while to sort of get used to things and feel comfort­able. Now, I feel comfort­able out here." 
Holmes needed a win to earn a trip to next week's Masters, and is the only player from last year's Ryder Cup who failed to qualify. 
Casey bogeyed the 18th hole in regulation to com­plete a 72 and tie Holmes at 11 under par. Holmes wrapped up a 69 almost three hours before Casey finished. 
The players met on the 

IN BRIEF Joba retires 16 straight
in final warmup 
TAMPA, Fla. -New York Yankees right-hander Joba Chamberlain allowed two runs and two hits over 5 1/3 innings in his final spring training start on Sunday. 
Chamberlain, pitching for Double­A Trenton in a camp game against Triple-A Scranton/Wikes-Barre, retired 16 in a row -including five strikeouts -after allowing two hits and a walk to start the game. 
The Yankees' No. 5 starter faced additional batters after three outs were recorded -two in the third and three during the fifth -to reach his scheduled pitch count of 75. 
"It took me just a little bit to get going," Chamberlain said. "I wanted to work on fastball command and my changeup, and I think I did a great job with those two. I think it was one of my most productive days as far as consistency. It was good." 
tee of the 488-yard 18th hole, the most difficult of the tournament with an average score of 4.336. 
Holmes hooked his tee shot into the pond that lines the hole, admitting that the long wait threw him off. 
"It was rough," Holmes said. "I posted that three hours before they were done. That was an advan­tage I thought I had, but when you get into a play­off after waiting three hours, it turns out to be a bit of a disadvantage. I hit a bad shot and didn't deserve to win." 
Casey then drove into the fairway bunker on the right side and hit a safe 
Patrick, Matos have 
heated discussion 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. ­Danica Patrick's season got off to a tough start after she crashed out early in the season-opening Honda Grand Prix. 
She was running ninth in the 22-car field on Sunday when rookie Raphael Matos tried to pass as the two went into one of the tightest turns on the 1.8­mile, 14-turn temporary street circuit. 
Both cars crashed, with Patrick's Andretti Green Racing entry slamming hard, rear end first into a tire barrier. 
As the uninjured drivers walked away, Patrick patted Matos on the helmet as if to say, "Use your head." The two then waited for a ride back to the pits, with a lively discussion taking place as Matos sat on a wall and Patrick stood in front of him. 
layup to the front of the green. Holmes reached the green with his fourth shot, then missed a long bogey putt. Casey two­putted from 27 feet to secure the win. 
Casey made a last­minute commitment to play in Houston and would now be flying to Augusta with a helpful dose of confidence. 
"The self-belief, this is a very difficult thing to explain and to work on, because you don't want to be arrogant," he said. "But yet you have to believe in yourself. For me, it's just been a lot of hard work, playing a lot of golf, and a bit of time." 

Gordon snaps skid 
at elusive Texas 
FORT WORTH, Texas -Jeff Gordon had gone so long without winning a race that he picked up a new trick or two watching other drivers celebrate. 
No, not a backflip a la Carl Edwards. 
After the obligatory burnout on the frontstretch for his first vic­tory ever at Texas, one that ended his career-high 4 7 -race winless drought in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series, Gordon pulled up to the start-finish line and got the checkered flag to take on a long-awaited victory lap. 
"It was the coolest. It was like winning for the very first time," Gordon said. "Things have changed since I won a race ... That's the first time I've ever carried a checkered flag in NASCAR. I used to do that in quarter-midgets when I was 8." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 6, 2009 
NCAA MENI'S BASKETBALL 

Michigan State itching for rematch with UNC 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Michigan State has been itching for this do-over since December. 
Not only is the NCAA title at stake when the Spartans play North Carolina on Monday night, Michigan State will try to avenge that 35-point beatdown the Tar Heels laid on them four months ago. It was the most lopsided loss for Michigan State since 1996, Tom Izzo's first year as coach. 
"We got embarrassed," Kalin Lucas said after the 98-63 loss in the ACC!Big Ten Challenge, also played at Ford Field. 
Oh, how things have changed. 
The Spartans (31-6) are an inspired bunch these days, play­ing for their third national title and the pride of their downtrod­den state. 
"The whole country is going through an extremely difficult time period right now.... Perhaps it's even a little more difficult for those people here. I appreciate that and understand what they're grabbing onto," North Carolina coach Roy Williams said. ''I'm happy for them. I will not be as happy for them on Monday night." 
Few places have been hit hard­er by the economic crisis than Michigan, Detroit in particular, and folks are desperate for something to rally around, even if only for a few hours. The Spartans have been happy to oblige, knocking off not one, but two No. 1 seeds to get to the NCAA title game. 
Now comes another in North Carolina (33-4). It will be the fifth meeting between the Tar Heels and Spartans in the NCAA tour­nament, and North Carolina has won the first four. The Tar Heels are an early 7 -point favorite. 
"I hope we were a ray of sun­shine, a distraction for them, a diversion, anything else we can be," Izzo said after the Spartans ran over Hasheem Thabeet and Connecticut in an 82-73 upset Saturday night. "We're not done yet." 
The mighty Big East, however, is. 
The best conference in the country got seven teams in the tournament, and two made it all the way to the Final Four. But both went down Saturday night and, really, it wasn't even close for Connecticut or Villanova. After banging and brawling their way through the Big East season, both teams were outmuscled all night. 
The Spartans were a weak­ened bunch when they played the Tar Heels back in December. Center Goran Suton was out with a knee injury, and Michigan State was playing its fourth game in a week. They managed to stay with Carolina early but had fallen behind by 14 at the half and were thoroughly outmatched in the second half. 

But Suton is back -way back. He led the rough-and-tumble Big Ten in rebounding, and was picked as the most outstanding player of the Midwest Regional after averaging a double-double in the first four games. He only had seven boards and four points Saturday, but he played a big part in smothering Thabeet, who wasn't much of a factor despite his 17 points and six rebounds. 
Raymar Morgan shook off his late-season slump with a spec­tacular game, finishing with 18 points, nine rebounds and five steals against the Huskies. Lucas, the Big Ten player of the year, had 21 points. 
Then there's the crowd factor. With their Breslin Center home court just 90 miles away, Michigan State is playing the closest to home of any Final Four team since Kansas won the 1998 title in Kansas City, and Detroit is awash in green and white. A Final Four-record crowd of 72,456 turned out Saturday night, and about two-thirds of the fans were there for the Spartans. 
How's this for some karma? Magic Johnson, Spartan-in-chief since leading Michigan State to its first title in 1979, will present the game ball before Monday's title game along with Larry Bird. 
"We definitely know they've gotten better," Deon Thompson said. "They didn't have Suton last time, and he's a big-time player. I really think it's a different team from when we played them back here." 
North Carolina, however, is just as daunting. 
With Tyler Hansbrough, Ty Lawson and Wayne Ellington back from last year's Final Four team, the Tar Heels were the unanimous preseason No. 1 and a fifth national championship seemed a given. But they looked vulnerable after losing to Florida State in the ACC tournament, especially with Ty Lawson miss­ing that game and two others with a bum big toe. 
So much for that. 
They've :won every tournament game by 12 points or more. They took a lead three minutes into the game Saturday night and never trailed again. They had four players in double figures, led by Lawson's 22 points and eight assists. Ellington chipped in with another 20, and Hansbrough had a double-double with 18 points and 11 boards. 
They limited the Wildcats to 33 percent shooting, including just 5-of-37 from 3-point range. 
"We are a confident team, but we will not be overconfident Monday night. That's just not going to happen," Williams said. 
"''ve coached in games before where we beat a team easily or got killed and turned around and beat them the second time .... My team knows that they'll have the battle of the state of Michigan." 


Mishawaka • 4810 Grape Rd. 574.271.1330 


For Gay, lesbiant BisexualS Ouestioning Students at Notre Dame Tuesday, April? 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 31S Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay.lesbian. bisexual Bquestioning members of the Notre Oame 
family. along with their friends and allys, to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 
Cuffee andRefreshments Wtl/9e Served 
Monday, April 6, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Purdue opens QB battle 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­Justin Siller's dismissal from Purdue opens the competition for starting quarterback that could stretch beyond spring practice into the fall between fifth-year senior Joey Elliott and redshirt freshman Caleb TerBush. 
Siller, a sophomore who started three games last sea­son, was kicked out of school through the 2009-10 year for an undisclosed violation of the university's academic policy. Coach Danny Hope wouldn't elaborate on the violation, but he said it changes the Boilermakers' plans at that crucial position for next season. 
"It changes because Justin is a heck of a player and figured into things and was competing to be a starter," Hope said. "He would've played next year whether he was a starter or not." 
Siller led Purdue to a win over Michigan last season, and Elliott was effective before he was sidelined with a shoulder injury. 
TerBush was introduced to Purdue at a football camp in 
the summer of 2007 and impressed the coaches with his intelligence, arm strength and athletic ability. In his final year of high school, he passed for 1,575 yards and 16 touchdowns and ran for 859 yards with 16 scores while leading Metamora Township to the Illinois SA championship. He was red­shirted last season at Purdue. 
"Caleb has done a great job this spring," Hope said. "He's been very accurate with his passes. He's the best natural passer we have on our football team. He has a great upside. He'll be forced into more reps, which will be good for his development." 
Whoever gets the job will replace four-year starter Curtis Painter. 
Hope said he was made aware of Siller's situation a couple of weeks ago but allowed Siller to continue to practice while going through a university appeal process. 
"He received a three-semes­ter sentence and that appeal was denied," Hope said. "We have to press on and focus on our football team." 
The 6-foot-4 Siller played in six other games besides his three starts. The Detroit native completed 59 of 106 passes for 496 yards, three touchdowns and two interceptions. He also rushed 60 times for 167 yards and two touchdowns. 
Hope called the dismissal from school "very disappoint­ing." 
"Our heart goes out to Justin and his family. He made one poor decision and received a severe penalty and one that terminates his immediate future at Purdue as a student and as an athlete," Hope said. 
But Hope, who replaced the retired Joe Tiller at the end of last season, said he would wel­come Siller back to the team if he fulfills all of his academic requirements. If not, he said Siller still has other options. 
"He can transfer to a I-AA school and be immediately eli­gible as long as he makes up the hours that he'll lose this semester," he said. "He could go to a I-A school and sit out for a year and establish resi­dency.... That's something he and his family have to sit down and discuss. I'm sure that will be way down the road because he has a lot of work to make up academically." 


• View 2009 summer courses at www.northwestern.edu/summer 
• 
Choose from more than 300 classes 

• 
Earn transfer credit 

• 
Prepare for graduate ~tudy 


• 
Immerse yourself in an intensive science or language sequence 

• 
Take advantage of day and evening classes on two campuses 

• 
Explore a new interest 




NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 
summer session 
LPGA 

Lincicon1e \1\Tins first n1ajor with late eagle 
Associated Press 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. ­Her heart racing and her hands shaking, Brittany Lincicome did whatever she could to kept it together on the final holes of the Kraft Nabisco Championship. 
She breathed deep. She and her caddie sang country songs, mostly Sugarland and Kenny Chesney. 
It worked, because she hit two brilliant shots on 18 to set up a 4-foot eagle putt that she rolled in to win her first major on Sunday. 
"I can't even describe it," Lincicome said moments after taking the traditional plunge into the lake that surrounds the 18th green. "It's surreal, real-ly." 
Never worse than three strokes behind in the final round, Lincicome stayed close as her good friend Kristy McPherson and Cristie Kerr traded the lead back and forth on a perfect day at Mission Hills. 
Trailing McPherson by one stroke, the 23-year-old Lincicome broke through with an amazing sequence of shots on the par-5, 485-yard 18th. 
McPherson calls Lincicome "Bam-Bam" because of the length of her drives, and Lincicome lived up to that by booming a 275-yard drive down the middle of the fairway. 
"It just came down to 18, and luckily my length is a strong point and I bombed it out there and went for the green," Lincicome said. 
She hit a hybrid from 210 yards that cleared the water and landed on the upper part of the green, with the ball curl­ing down just above the hole. 
"Please be good," Lincicome said as she watched the ball fly through the desert air, then smiled when it was. 
"Right when I hit it, it came off the clubface and it was exactly where we were trying to hit it and it took the slope like I was hoping it was going to, and it was really close, thank God," Lincicome said. "If I had to make anything further than that ... my hands were shaking so bad, I was almost crying. The fans were so great and cheering for me and just walking up there was a great feeling." 
Kerr rolled in a birdie putt from the fringe to Lie McPherson, but Lincic0me made it a moot point when she made her putt to finish with a 3-under 69. She pumped her fist and hugged McPherson, who finished tied for second with Kerr, one shot back. 
It was the third career victo­ry for Lincicome, whose previ­ous best finish in a major was a tie for second at this tourna­ment in 2007. 
Playing in the all-Florida final threesome, she became the first American winner in the last six women's majors. Kerr was the last to do so in the 2007 U.S. Open. 
After receiving her trophy, Lincicome joined hands with her father, Tom, and caddie, Tara Bateman, and jumped into the lake. 
"She was telling me at the turn, 'Dude, I'm going to have a heart attack. My heart is beat­ing out of my chest,"' McPherson said about Lincicome. "Anytime she was nervous she came over to me to calm her down. She was pretty funny out there. Yeah. we talked a good bit, and yeah, it was good to have a good friend in the last group with 

me." 
Lincicome, who took the first­round lead Thursday with a 66, finished with a 9-under 279. McPherson shot a 72 and Kerr a 71 on Sunday. 
McPherson, leading by one shot heading to No. 18, was trying to hold on for her first LPGA Tour victory when Lincicome broke through. Lincicome opened the final round with seven straight pars before two straight birdies gave her a chance. 
McPherson had a seesaw day. 
She lost her overnight lead to Kerr on the second hole, pulled into a tie by making three birdies in four holes spanning the turn, dropped back when Kerr birdied the par-3 14th, then jumped back into the lead on the 15th when Kerr took a double-bogey after losing her ball out of bounds, hitting it through some trees and appar­ently clearing a wall onto Gerald Ford Drive. 
"That hole defmitely owes me in the future," Kerr said. 
"In tournaments in general, but majors in specific, it's such a fine line you have to walk to be able to end up winning. You have to have everything go your way. Maybe it hits the tree and drops instead of going out of bounds." 
Lindsey Wright (70) was fourth at 6 under, while Suzann Pettersen (66) and Meaghan Francella (69) tied for fifth at 5 under. 
Defending champion Lorena Ochoa shot a 66 for her best round of the tournament and finished in a tie for 12th at 1 under. 
Kerr started the round one shot behind McPherson, but had a three-shot lead after five holes despite some wayward driving. 
Kerr jumped into the lead on the par-5 second hole, despite driving into the rough and fail­ing to extricate herself with her second shot. She had a nice approach shot and sank an 18­foot birdie putt while McPherson had a bogey after her sand shot was short of the green. 
Kerr saved par on No. 3 despite driving into the left rough, getting a break when her lie was in grass that had been trampled by the gallery. 
Kerr birdied No. 4 with a tricky 10-foot downhill putt, then took a three-stroke lead when McPherson bogeyed the par-3 fifth hole by hitting her tee shot into the water. 
"I felt like I was out of it early," McPherson said. "Brittany started off slow, as well, and made a couple of good par saves. Cristie, she was springing up on both of us at one time. 
"But finally on the back nine we got it to where it was a good match between all three of us. Cristie and I made a few mistakes, and Brittany made a couple of great par saves to stay in there and bring it down to the 18th hole." 
I 
I 
MLB 

Ichiro placed on 15-day DL 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 6, 2009 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE-Mariners star Ichiro Suzuki is being treated for a bleed­ing ulcer and was placed on the 15-day disabled lbt Friday, sending Seattle into Opening Day minus one ofbaseball's best players. 
The Mariners said the ulcer is no longer bleeding. Doctors have restricted the 35-year-old outfield­er's activity but are optimistic he'll be ready to play when he's eligible to come olftl1e DL on April15. 
Suzuki played for Japan in the World Baseball Oassic. He com­plained of severe fatigue earlier this week and missed Seattle's final three spring training games in Arizona, and was diagnosed with the ulcer-a relatively rare condi­tion for an athlete-after seeing doctors Thursday. 
"I know how much [Ichiro] cares. This is the first time in eight years he's been on the DL," Mariners manager Don Wakamatsu said Friday night in Las Vegas before the team opened a two-game weekend set against Colorado. "Every indication is that it will be 15 days. We'll see how he is after that.'' 

The All-Star right fielder didn't accompany the team to Las Vegas, instead staying in Arizona and hav­ing a light workout at their spring training complex in Peoria on Friday. Seattle opens the season Monday at Minnesota. 
"It was a very difficult ded<;ion to place Ichiro on the disabled list, especially since we know what a fierce competitor he is and how important it is to him to help the team," Mariners general manager Jack Zduriencik said. "However, we determined it was in both hb best interest, and the best interest of the club, to place him on the DL at tllis time." 
It's the first time in his major league career Suzuki has been on the disabled list. He's been remark­ably healthy since arriving in Seattle in 2001, missing just 16 games in his eight-year career and only three games in the last live seasons. Suzuki had played in 197 consecutive games. 
The move was retroactive to March 31, meaning Suzuki won't be eligible to come ofl" tl1!~ disabled list until the second week of the season when Seattle is at home. Wakamatsu said Friday night that either Franklin Gutierrez or Endy Chavez will take over the leadoff spot in the batting order and that a variety of players eould be used in right, induding Kfln Griffey Jr. 
"It's unfortunate, but conversely, it is important for him to get healthy," Grimw said Friday 11ight. "We'd rather see him as healthy as possible." 
Suzuki didn't arrive at Mariners spring training until March 26, after leading Japan to a second consecutive WBC tith-l. The high pressure of playing in the WBC combined with the expectations from his home country made the championship hugely satisfying. 
Suzuki hit .273 for .Japan in thfl WBC, playing in nine games, including his game-winning two­run single in the 1Oth inning of the championsllip gan10 to give Japan a 5-3 win over Korea. 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish finish tied for 14th off the tees in NC 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame finished a disappointing 14th thi'> weekend, tied with Georgia, in thn Bryan National 01llegiate tour­nament as the team ended with a final round of315 (27 over par). 
'We didn't play very well, but we're hoping to rebound and win Big East, " snnior captain li'Xl Maunu said. 
Maunu and junior Annie Brophy led the way for Notre DamP on thn third and linaJ day with mark<; of78 (6 over). Freshman Becca Huffer linished round thren at 79 (7 over) with 11 pars, while sophomores So-Hyun Park and Katie Conway shot 80 and 81, night-<md nine-over par. 
For the three-day tournament, Notre Dmne's top overalllinishBr wa'> Hullhr, who tied lor 43rd ovem.ll with her total of 231. Behind her, Maunu and Brophy tied for 52nd with their 17-over scores of 233. In the final round, Maunu had birdirn on the lil"ht, fow1h, and 13th holes. Brophy birdied on the third and 11th holes in the final round Overall, Brophy's play included five-under mark on the 12 par-fives to tie for the second best mmbined score at th!l event for par-five play. 
Park finished tied for 69th with a 21­over mark for a total 237 overall, including a birdie on the 15th and 10 pars on the day. 
Conway )X6ted a total of 240, plac­ing her tied for 76th. In the third round, she birdied the ninth and added eight pars. 
LSU won the tournament with a 23­over par total of 891, four strokes ahead of second-place Virginia. LSU's Megan McChrystal placed first for the tournament with a minus-1 total of 215. 
Next up for the Irish is the Big East tournament on April19 where thHy're looking to capture their second r.onsec­utive Big East title. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Attention Seniors! 

Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Adtnissions staff, the :\dtnissions Counselor is expected to tnake an important contribution to the rcctuiunent and selection of the first-year class by tnanaging relations with prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic territory. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and comn1unication within the &reographic territory, assesstnent and eYaluation of applications and conducting group/individual infortnation sessions. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the .Assistant Provost for l~nrolhnent and the Director of Admissions ()pcrations . 
. \mong our candidates, we tnay seek individuals who will assist with our diversity recruinnent efforts. 
Minimum Requirements: Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects of acadetnic and student life at Notre Datnc. Essential qualities include strong comtnunication and organizational skills, enthusiastn, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Plea.re Note: 1nterllieJPJ uHf be .rcbedlllnl qjl()r April!0. 
Prl'ji·n-ed .rtart date i.r /ttht t, 2009. 
.,., .... 
Application Process: To apply, please visit http:/ /NTliobs and apply to job #09123. 
The lJniversity of Nc>trc Dan1e is con1Inittecl ro diversity in irs staff, faculty. and student body. ,\s such, we strcmgi:· cnCf)Untgc applicntit>ns from l11L'n1bers of minority groups, wornen, veterans, individuals with disabilities, and others who will enhance our cc>tnrnunity. 
A \ ~ \II"'( ll''•
~~ •"o~~~
' 
--, 

Monday, April 6, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ROWING 
Irish place third, fifth in San Diego 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Da111e takes tvvo of three 
men Kristy Frilling, man­"Kristy played very well 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
aged a doubles victory as against Northwestern," Spans Writer 
they defeated the No. 14 Tefft said. "She lost to Rose 
pairing of Georgia Rose and in February and has been 
The Irish won two out of Lauren Lui 8-3. working on the things that three matches over the "We have three very she needed to be a player weekend to stay undefeated strong doubles teams," Tefft like Rose ever since then." in Big East play. said. "Although we have The Irish had lost to 
Friday, No. 3 Notre Dame won most of our doubles Northwestern once earlier (19-4, 3-0) topped DePaul points, we are not yet play­this year, 4-1, at the 5-2 and Sunday it swept ing to our potential. We National Indoor semifinals. Marquette 7-0. In between should win all of our dou­Saturday's match was much the two Big East victories, bles points. If we could closer, even though it was Notre Dame dropped a have gotten the doubles in Evanston, Ill. closely con-point on "We have changed our tested match Saturday it lineup around some since to top-ranked would have February which helped
"Next time we play

Northwestern been a much make the match closer," 4-3 Saturday. [Northwestern] we different story Tefft said. "Next time we 
As is usually really could for us." play them we really could indicative of Against beat them."
beat them.,, 

the team's DePaul, the In the Marquette match, success, Notre Irish earned not only did the Irish sweep Dame won the Kelcy Tefft four singles the doubles point, but the doubles point Irish senior victories. team dominated in the sin­in both victo­Tefft, juniors gles matches as well. Notre rious matches Kali Krisik Dame won all six matches, this weekend, and Cosmina as no Irish player gave up and lost it against Ciobanu and freshmen more than five points en Northwestern. In fact, Shannon Mathews all were route to victory. The closest against the Big East compe­victorious in their matches. matches were those of tition, Notre Dame swept all Against Northwestern, Frilling and sophomore three doubles matches. Krisk and Mathews main­Kristen Rafael, each ending Against Northwestern, only tained their perfect week­6-2, 6-3. the top Irish duo, the third­ends, while No. 36 Frilling ranked combination of sen­pulled out an upset over No. Contact Douglas Farmer at ior Kelcy Tefft and fresh-20 Rose. dfarmer@nd.edu 
By BRENDAN CORSONES 
Spans Writer 
The first and second Irish varsity boats fmished third and fifth, respectively, in the San Diego Crew Classic this week­end. 
The first varsity eight, coxed by Stephanie Szegedi, finished with a time of 7:02.39 in the Women's Collegiate Varsity Invitational Petite Final, behind UCLA (6:52.20) and Iowa (6:53.77). The Irish beat out Miami (7:07.43) and UC-Davis (7:12.60). 
The first boat got to that point by qualifying Saturday with a time of 6:51.07 in the Group A heat. The Irish were competi­tive in a group that featured No. 4 Washington, No. 6 Michigan and No. 18 Oregon State. 
The second eight, coxed by Kelsey Otero, put in a time of 
7:09.47 in their final, just get­ting edged by Washington (7:00.00), Michigan (7:02.08), Wisconsin (7:04.71), and USC 
(7:04.73) in the Women's 
Collegiate JV Grand Final. The Irish did manage to beat Oregon State, who clocked a 
7:11.92 in the final. 
Otero's boat finished an impressive second in their qual­ifying heat Saturday, clocking a 7:06.49, bested only by Washington (6:56.90). 
Irish coach Martin Stone said he was proud of his second boat's results. 
"It's the first time they've reached the grand final in the five years we've been coming to the (San Diego) Classic," he said. 
Stone did say, however, that his first varsity boat had room for improvement, and that the crew would train even harder during this week in preparation for next week's regatta against Ohio State, Brown and Minnesota in Columbus, Ohio. 
"I hoped we'd run faster," he said. "But we have a chance to prove ourselves next weekend against Ohio State." 
Contact Brendan Corsones at bcorsone@nd.edu 
SMC GoLF 
SMC in second after 
first dayofTrinetourney 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's was in second after the first round of play Saturday at the Trine Invitational. 
The Belles shot a combined score of 339 on the day, just three strokes behind confer­ence rival Olivet, who paced the field with a score of 336. 
Leading Saint Mary's was sophomore Mary Kate Boyce, who shot an 82 on the day. Close behind Boyce were soph­omore Rosie O'Connor with an 83 and senior Meredith Fantom with an 84. 
Sophomore Emily Gore and freshman Natalie Matuszak rounded out the Belles score­card with rounds of 90 and 92, respectively. 
The Saint Mary's athetlic department Web site reported that the second day of play was cancelled Sunday. Play will resume today after a one-day delay. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgrabam@nd.edu 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
UConn cruises to title game 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Geno Auriemma has coached perfect teams and national champions before. He's also worked with some of the best players in the history of women's basketball. 
On the doorstep of another unbeaten season, the Connecticut coach wants to add senior guard Renee Montgomery and the rest of these Huskies to those lists. 
"I don't want this team to come up short," Auriemma said. "I don't want them to stop play­ing. I wanted them to be in the championship game. You love when your best players, the ones who have given their heart and soul to the program and have accomplished so many things have a chance to win the last college game of the year." 
Montgomery scored 26 points, Maya Moore added 24, and unbeaten UConn cruised to its first title game in five years with an 83-64 victory over Stanford on Sunday night. 
UConn will face Big East rival Louisville on Tuesday night. The Cardinals missed their first 13 shots before rallying to beat Oklahoma 61-59. 
The Huskies (38-0) already have routed Louisville twice this year, including dismantling the Cardinals 75-36 in the Big East tournament championship game in early March. 
"I wish we were playing any­one but Louisville," Auriemma said. "Anyone, I don't care who. The last team you want to play is a team you beat the way we beat them the two times we beat them, especially the last time we played them." 
The Huskies have made almost everyone look silly this season, winning by nearly 31 points a game and not allowing a team to come within single digits. 
With an imposing lineup that featured five starters over 6­feet, Stanford (33-5) was sup­posed to be an obstacle. The Cardinal were the last team to beat Connecticut, knocking them out ofthe Final Four last season. 
That challenge didn't last long -just like most of the other ranked teams UConn has faced this season. 

After Jayne Appel got off to a quick start, the Huskies swarmed the Stanford star on defense, sometimes sending four players at her. The Cardinal couldn't stop Montgomery on the other end, who sliced through Stanford's defense with ease. 
"They went on a run where one time we totally lost Montgomery," Stanford coach Tara VanDerveer said. "For their team they really capital­ized on any time someone was open." 
Appel finished with 26 points, but she had little help. Nnernkadi Ogwurnike added 12 points and 12 rebounds and Kayla Pedersen added 10 points. 
UConn beat Stanford 87-60 in the Final Four en route to its first undefeated season in 1995, and also went unbeaten in 2002. The Huskies also entered the NCAA tournament undefeated in 1997, but fell to Tennessee in the regional final. 
Besides Connecticut, only the Lady Vols and Texas have run through a season unbeaten. 

r------------­
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 6, 2009 
Just think, the next time you find your name in 1he Observer it will be in an article, byline or letter to the editor. (And hopefully not the police blotter.) 
Michael Adsit Kevin Andreassi Tom Atwood Audrey Ballard Tyler Bartlow Dianna Bartone Paige Boehrncke Kelly Brakora Gus Brodman Elizabeth Buchanan Rick Caraballo Matt Charnley Michael Collins Caroline Condon Matt Cook Steven Cooper Evan Dalton Hannah Darst Sara De La Rosa Rachel Dever Kerri Devine Lauren Drapalik Emily Fankell Sarah Farrell Matt Fix Sarah Forde JoeGadient ZachHarris 
Kevin Hogan "Wayne, NJ 
Mark Sonderman 
Katie Hoppenjans Adam Hom AmyJohnson Aubrey Jones John K 
odychuk tthew Kudija Lauren Kuntz Stella Latscha Samuel Levy 
San Diego, CA Rochester, MI Woodstock, CT Manhattan, KS Long Grove, IL Davidsonville,MD Mountain Lakes, NJ Anchorage, AK Scottsdale, AZ Chicago,IL Rochester, MN Livonia,MI Celebration, FL West Linn, OR Burr Ridge, IL Houston,TX Kingwood, TX Raleigh, NC ElPaso,TX Louisville, KY Marlton,NJ Naperville, IL Kingwood, TX Riverside, CA Darien,IL Danville, CA Perrysburg, OH Dallas,TX 
Andrew Lewis Nathan Lin Ryan Lynch Mike Marszowski Jane McGraw Ryan McLynn Torn Mealey Erin Michet Erin Mirski Murphy Kate Montee Christopher Mork Joe Mulholland John Mullaney Luke Mynsberge Blake Neff Eric Nesi Michael O'Brien Jacob Pankow Elliott Pearce Nevin Peeples Thomas Potthast Andy Prornbo Adam Richter Andrew Ritter Katie Rose . Andrew Sanchez Nikhil Saxena Tim Scott 

Lewis ·center, oa· Elyse Staebler Versailles, KY 
Zachary Stauder Huntington W9<lq~, ~ Shawn Steurer Beaverton, OR Shauna Fargo, NP Greenwood Village, CO Naperville, IL Mount Prospect, IL 
Homewood, IL Jacksonville, FL Alpharetta, GA 
Bloomington, MN 
Farmington, CT 
Severna Park, MD 
Sturgeon Bay, WI Wheaton, IL Lyndhurst, OH 
Hammond, IN Mosinee, WI 
Sioux Falls, SD 
Fairfield, CT 
Strongsville, OH Waukesha, WI 
College Station, TX 
Chesterfi~d,MO 
Windermere, FL Palatine, IL San Antonio, TX Evansville, IN Sugar Land,.JX .. Plymouth, IN Fremont, CA Frankfort, IL 
Reston, VA Hinsdale, IL 
Edmo~g,OK 


Monday, April 6, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Valdivia 
continued from page 24 
out 15 Panthers on Saturday, matching a career high. 
"(Valdivia] has really come into her own," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "She has always been a very good pitcher. She has a lot of confi­dence right now. She is focused in on every single pitch and that's a big differ­ence." 
In Saturday's f'irst game, Pittsburgh (15-18, 3-9) scored three runs in the sec­ond inning and two in the fourth off of senior pitcher Brittany Bargar (13-7), who took the loss despite only two of the runs being earned. 
The Irish were unable to muster any significant offen­sive challenges in the game, scoring one in the third inning on a double by junior first baseman Christine Lux and another in the sixth when Lux scored on a wild pitch. 
"It wasn't a bad weekend in that we did take three out of four," Gumpf said. "Every team that comes into Notre Dame is out to play their best game and beat us and that's what Pittsburgh did." 
Lack of offense wasn't a problem for the rest of the weekend. 
"My whole goal every year is to have the best hitters hit­ting and the best hitters play­ing," Gumpf said. "They're making it tough on me because I have not only nine hitters doing well, I have 10 or 11. I like that they're com­peting with each other for playing time." 
The Irish scored seven runs on eight hits in game two against Pittsburgh, departing from the home-run driven offense they have used for the past couple weeks. 
Sophomore right fielder Erin Marrone and senior sec­ond baseman Linda Kohan each had two hits for the Irish in that game. 
Marrone stood out again Sunday when she came to bat with the bases loaded in the fourth inning of the first game against Seton Hall and hit it over the fence for her 
first career grand slam. 
"Marrone has put herself in the starting lineup with some really great at bats," Gumpf said. 
Lux also homered in game one, a two-run shot that put the Irish up 3-0 after the first inning. 
It was more of the same in the second game, as the Irish scored five times in the first inning and four times in both the second and third frames. 
After the offensive explo­sion of the first game, Gumpf said the team was not expect­ing to do so well in the next. 
"You hope they don't get comfortable, and they didn't," Gumpf said. "They came out and attacked Seton Hall again the second game. I was very impressed. I thought they did a great job." 
Notre Dame now sits in third place in the Big East, behind Louisville and DePaul, who will come to South Bend on Wednesday for a double­header that will begin at 5 p.m. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

!Now £easing Por 2009-2010 fl.pp{y q'otfay £imiteaSpace fl,vaifa.6fe!I I 
Offerino rr1i.e (}3est ~nta('Rfltes in rr'uwn! $99 'For P' :Montfi.s tR_fnt 11-ttli 12 :M.ontli Lease! $300 q[fr :M.ontfi.s <Rent 11-ttli 9 :Montli Lease! 'Free.Jlpptication Pee PorStud£nts 11-ttli /.<D.! Cfose to Campus! 
Scots 
continued from page 24 
big inning in the first game, the Belles came out ready to play in the back end of the doubleheader. In a display of fundamental softball, Saint Mary's scored three runs on three hits in the bottom of the third to take the early lead. 
Senior Cathy Kurczak and freshman Lauren Enayati got 


the ball rolling by leading off the frame with a pair of back­to-hack singles. MIAA player of the week Maureen Healy moved the run­ners into scor­ing position after executing a sacrifice 

"[Gillis] is just one of fully confident 
that her pitch­

the most composed 
ing staff will be 

pitchers I think Fve ready to go this ever seen. week. 
"She [Gillis] is just one of the

Erin Sullivan 
most composed

Belles coach 
pitchers I think 
bunt, and junior Ashley Peterson walked to load the bases. 
Senior Ashley Fusaro, bat­ting .492 coming into the weekend, drove in Kurczak on a single to left field. Two bat­ters later, freshman Hayley Bojorquez hit a two-out dou­ble to right-center field to bring home Peterson and Fusaro. 
Nevertheless, the Scots 

came back to steal a win from the Belles, scoring four runs over the last three frames to secure a 4-3 win and the sweep. 
"I really hope we play them again," Sullivan said. "I know we'll win the next game. We know exactly what they're going to do." 
Freshman Angela Gillis went the distance, striking out three along the way only to pick up her first loss of the season. Despite the heart­breaking loss, Sullivan was 
I've ever seen," 

Sullivan said. "If someone gets a hit off her, you can see it in her face that she wants to get the next out. She never overreacts, she's never overemotional." 
The Belles will try to start a new winning streak when they take on cross-town rival Bethel College tonight at 6 
p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 6, 2009 
Johnson 
continued from page 24 
from the get-go, as the visitors didn't manage a hit until the fourth and a run until the ninth in a 3-1 Notre Dame victory that lasted less than two hours. 
"He's been outstanding all sea­son for us," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "Changing speeds, his cutter was probably the best it's been. Overall, just a great per­formance to set the tone on a Friday." 
The defense did its part in Friday's opener, as the Irish turned three inning-ending double plays and made several diving catches despite winds that neared 30 miles per hour and played tricks with every ball that was hit in the air. 
Notre Dame scored all three of its runs in the first inning, receiv­ing a two-run double from sopho­more David Casey and a run-scor­ing double from senior Jeremy Barnes to grab an early lead the Irish wouldn't relinquish. 
"The best thing in. the world is to go out there, put up a zero and then have your offense put up a crooked number for you," Johnson said. "That's exactly what happened today." 
Notre Dame used a spectacular pitching performance from Dupra (3-3, 5.01) and three solo home runs to defeat Villanova 4-0 in the first game of Saturday's double­header. 
Dupra dominated the Wildcats throughout the game, allowing just three hits while going the dis­tance. The right-hander struck out six and walked none. 
The Irish were first on the scoreboard, getting an early run off Villanova starter Kevin Crimmel in the bottom of the first. 
Notre Dame notched another run in the bottom of the second off the bat of sophomore catcher Cameron McConnell. With two out, McConnell connected on a Crimmel fastball, easily clearing the left field fence for a solo curve out of the ballpark and gave Notre Dame a 3-0 lead. 

The Irish got their third solo home run of the day the next inning, as Barnes got in on the action. Barnes took a fastball to the opposite field and put it just outside the park in right. 
Dupra was sensational for the Irish, locating his fastball well and mixing it effectively with breaking balls for strikes. The Wildcats were held hitless until the top of the fifth, when Villanova catcher Wesley Borden singled up the middle. 
Outfielders Mills and sophomore Golden Tate led the Irish with two hits each. 
In the second game of Saturday's doubleheader, the Irish used a five-run spurt in the eighth inning to break open the game on their way to a 9-3 victory and a series sweep over the Wildcats. Barnes and McConnell each had triples in the monster inning, as the pair combined to drive in all five runs in the frame. 
Casey had a strong game at the plate going 2-for-2 with a run scored and reaching base in all four of his at-bats. 
Notre Dame struggled early, allowing Villanova to load the bases in the first inning. But Maust (3-2, 5.93) was able to escape the inning while limiting the Wildcats to just one run. After Villanova tacked on another run in each of the next two innings, Maust found his rhythm giving up just two hits the rest of the way. 
Maust picked up the win for Irish behind 8 113 solid innings of work allowing just three earned runs on six hits. 
Villanova's offense, which has not had trouble creating runs so far this season, ran into major trouble this weekend managing just four runs in the three-game set. 
Notre Dame will play an exhibi­tion game against the South Bend Silverhawks on Tuesday before continuing Big East play with a three-game road series against Cincinnati. 
Air Force 
continued from page 24 
half on a goal from sophomore midfielder Vinny Sandtorv to cut the Irish lead to four head­ing into the half. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a fast start in the seeond half as goals from sophomore midfield­er Zaeh Brenneman and Hicks gave the Irish a 7-1 lead with 
12:48 left in the third period. The Falcons cut into the lead once again on a goal from freshman attackman Adam Paranka, but Notre Dame responded with a score from junior midfielder Grant Krebs to make the score 8-2. An Air Force goal from senior mid­fielder Eric Evans cut the Notre Dame lead to five at the end of the third quarter. 
Air Force scored first in the fourth quarter with a goal from senior long-stick midfielder Dan Gnazzo to narrow the Irish lead to 8-4. However, that would be as close as the 
The victory over Cincinnati marked the 10th on the sea­
Scioscia 
son for Notre Dame, which continued from page 24 has now won at least that 
many for the fourth consecu­Ansley Stewart, whose four tive year, a first in the pro­goals were good for a career gram's history. high. The Irish then defeated 
"[Stewart) played very Louisville on Sunday, led once well," Irish coach Tracy Coyne again by the scoring from said. "She was just really in Byers. She contributed anoth­the flow of the game. I think er five goals and two assists in the team was the blowout finding her victory.
"/ think we recognize

when she was "I thought we open and she that the conference is played well was capitaliz­today against
competitive and I 

ing on the Louisville,"
think the team came

defensive looks Coyne said. "I they were giv­out and gave think we rec­ing her." ognize that the
Louisville the respect 

Both teams conference is
that they deserve and 

started slowly, competitive but with the played a great and I think the score tied at game.'' team came out one, the Irish and gave went on to Louisville the 
Tracy Coyne 

score the next respect that four goals, and Irish coach they deserve nine out of the and played a next eleven great game. I goals scored in the first half. think that's a step in the right The Irish were paeed by direction." Stewart, who contributed After scoring two quick three of her four goals before goals in the first four minutes the break. of the game, the Irish gave up 
Notre Dame did not let up in a goal before scoring six more second half, scoring the first unanswered, giving them an five goals, including Stewart's 8-1 lead. Sciocia and Byers fourth and Byers' third and combined for five of the first fourth. eight goals for Notre Dame. 
Falcons would get, as goals from senior attackman Duncan Swezey and senior midfielder Peter Christman later in the period iced the game for the Irish. 
With the win, Notre Dame remains one of two undefeated teams in Division I lacrosse, along with No. 1 Virginia. The Irish return to action when they travel to the University of Denver Saturday. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Notre Dame never looked back, scoring five unanswered goals near the beginning of the second half, and putting the game out of reach. 
"(Byers) did something today that was very quintes­sential," Coyne said. "She had one really awesome goal, where she was one-on-one with the goalie and made a great fake and just placed her shot. I was happy to see her do that." 
The two victories were boosted by strong defensive performances, and Coyne was specific in pointing out senior Shannon Burke and junior Rachel Guerrera. 
"[Burke] played great on Friday," Coyne said. "And [Guerrera) played awesome. She was kind of on a mission [Sunday)." 
Notre Dame returns to action Saturday when they will travel to Syracuse, N.Y. to take on the No. 8 Orange. 
"We have three big games in a row, so I think that's going to be a key test for us," Coyne said. "We have things that we can look back on, experiences that we've had over the sea­son that have prepared us for some of these tough stretches down the road." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
homer. 

Outfielder David Mills added a Contact Matt Gamber at solo shot of his own in the fifth mgamber@nd.edu, Alex Barker inning, taking advantage of a at abarker1 @nd.edu and breaking ball that Crimmelleft up Michael Bryan at in the zone. Mills deposited the mbryan@nd.edu 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre 
Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments 
Newly Remodeled 
Free Internet 
Free Water 

On-Site Laundry 
Off-Street Parking 
Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1·7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
(574)234-2436 
Monday, April 6, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

(~EtF.BlUTIES BORN ON TillS lMY-Agn~tha Faltsko11-, $9: Colin P.,welt 72; ROJ\¢! (\1mmn. S,i: GR!e Stom1. 87 
Happl Uirthday You cau m.1kc headway tl1is year by lrymg new lhieys or takiu2 ou '<)mcthin~ alto1Wh~r rliff~rent Yuur spirit au<l drive to )!Ct ahead will attra<:t !11.: a·tt~nti<>n of othl.-'~>, who waul sucre>_s as much as y~u do. Tbi.>" agre~11 year to sd your goals and push until y011 g<1 ewrytbu~.g you want lour munhen ;n-e !. 15. 16, 11. 30, 41.48 
AlUES tMa.n.:h ll-Aptil 19), Don't wail t.o_s~'<' what ewryonc dse is <.loin~t, Aposittw change \\'tlllead to abetl~r uuderstandmg of what yon can do to ol>tainj!rcater st~bility aud happmes>. Dcmaml <mswers if sona"QUC is ~iviug youtl~<: numroum.L ***** 
'L\HUJS (Aprill\I·Muy 2\1); Som~on~ youllnnk you <:an tnm will phi\ iHI emotional game with you, ~mn~oue older or with more experit'nc~ wtll sl~d some ii~ht 011 your per s.mal ~llllnlloR 1mubles wub fncnds or chtl<lrcu can be llxpected. * * 
(;f:l\UNT <M.ay 21-,lunf 2\1}; Make up your mind about what yon wamto do and who you want tu dothm~t> with, Once vou 5'-'l mur ~tmls. tl~ev \\1tl be easv to adtt<'ve Love is m the stars and, \\;till a ft'V Cil(oltra.ginp,'wortt~, you wiiJ attract the np,ht kind of atl<:ntion. 
**** 

CANCER !.June 21-.luly 22): Give in t<H~han~te because il's the ri~thl mo\'C. nm because S<.lU~<:one is trying to mmupu!ale you to do w. Be careful nOl to give m 10 d(,ll!3!1d~. 'litkc aelion and show everyone you aren't a pulilmver *** · 
LEO t.July lJ-Ang. 22): You've got ll<lthinl' to lose and everythin!! 10 ~ain hy grnns nfkr your dreams wholeh~.artedly. Ym• willleam 11 great deal ahnmnther<; if youlllll you1 Leo chatm to g<)t'\d use, Combme complu~~euts wtdl qut,lll>ns Y•Jn \\'allt aoswercd. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 2.Hi<>pt.221: Smne<me m~y try to cor!Vlllce yott of soruething that isn't ngilt for y<>u. Th!rt't giw in. Stay with your own way of dmng thing~. Stick ~~ 1he hudgd you've set and rem~mher !-'Ott tatlll<>t buy love, *** · · 
UBRA !S~pl. 23-0ct. 22)' D<ltl'l. !u~1J! armmd w~iti11p for <t>IIIC<>l1< d;.e to do th•• •mrk when you will do the best job 1f you 11:0 it alon~. Socialtnng will open UJl all 5tl11~ ol11e\' <lj)j)i.wftllliti~•. k;~rliltj!, '" p<:>T'\ou:t! ~n<l fli'Ok"i<m:d t-aius. *** * 
SCOlWIO tOd. L'-Nuv. 21) fJ<llll give in to S<llll<:<>Ue trvi11~ to uudcnni•~e V<>ur omfi d<~UC<~. All you have to do is make a few ~light changt"l ami yui1 will k off aud ruiiUUl)! ill uduecl.lml that IS worlmble lor yon. Take action, stand tall ami yon will st~<.'CCed. **** 
SA<HITARll'S (Nov. 22-De~. 21 ): Ke<.i> you.r emotions out of the <-qualiou, e;;peciallv 1f you m:e disnl~siug plaus !ill' the lutnre. You cmmol kt anvoue lake owr or iut:erfen: L<)\·e .is onllre ns.e a.ml a late tup,hl cuy;aj1eluenJ will briu~ you ~real pleasu"'. ** 
('AI'Rl('ORN llk-.:.22-Juu. 19). [.l<Jn't give iu It>"""''"'"~·, cmoti<>u<ll whism, eS('l"Ci•lly 1f n><m9· J< uwolved. Achange m lite way you do dung> timmcially will surpnll<: otlli.'N au<l hrin.~ Y"" greater we;~ltb. Don't be !<~'led hy wmeon~\ hra!t)!ill)!. *** 
AQVARrns (Jan. 26-F~b. 18): Y<>ur ahility t<> put y<lllr<:hams to Jt<>oo use will help you out vocationally and IJ(!Sihvely aHcct the w~y people treat you, You don't have to use force to !'CI your way ... honesty. inle)l.tity and compl.unents '"'ll suffice. * ** 
PISCES Hlcb. 19·Mnl't'b 211): Don't let your anxiety min your plans. If you are too ag· 
wes~1w or <'Ollie across as !on dcsp,,rate, you wtll push away the people you""""! to help you. Be hnue,;t about what you can do arul wb<l yrn• u,>ed to brinj! on bo,ml *** 
Blrthdn,-Uaby; Yon have" l'""d underslandin~t of life and whal it takes to he ""'cesshd. 
\'<JtJ ar<' en<:rj!etic. cktennmcd a.nd capable of reach in)! yonr goals. 
£ugr•ll<r'J Web mes: eugfl!ialtw.mm Jot cmifidnuiai<Ymxuliflliom, tH\'spacr,romit?ugt:ni<llasifar Eagnda'x bios. astmadl'icr.eom for fim 
CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Spooky 6 Walk with heavy 
steps 11 College transcript no. 
14 What a cowboy may use while saying "Giddyup!" 
15 Course to breeze through 16 Brit. resource for wordsmiths 
171nspector Clouseau movie. with "The" 
19 Hi-fi supply 20"1f I Had a Hammer" singer Lopez 21 Rye and whole wheat 23 Invent. as a 
phrase 
24 TV host Philbin 
27 Stats for sluggers 29 Air that makes you go [cough, cough] 
30 Alert to danger 31 Martial arts actor
Lee 
32 Asian New Year 33 Draped Delhi dress 
34 Start a Web session 35 Poet Gelett 
Burgess wrote that he never 
saw one 38 Bitterly pungent 41 Gentle rise and 
ran of the voice 42 Ghost's cry 45PIOdding 
journeys 46 Emperor who fiddled around? 47 Like the models in a swimsuit 
issue 48 Pie aIa 49 Patients, to 
doctors 50 What you might catch a tiger by, in a saying 51 Pull out 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
...:::..,.:.:.+:~:..j 
""'"f"""'+'""'+'"'-4 
...!.4-~:...J-::~.f.!!..l .-=+=+::..J-:~!4-!4=-1 
1-=-li-=-l..:..t..::..J~~~..:...j.!!+.!..l R-=+=+=:..j..::::~~~!!..J.':..j ...:...j..:.!.J...:,+:~:..j 


53 Antelope with a hump and twisted horns 
55"Howwas know?" 

56 Lewis Carroll character who's late 
60 Politico __ Paul 
61 Belly button 

62 Public square 
63 Unspecified amount 64 Take furtively 65 Rocker Bob with 
the Silver Bullet 
Band 

Down Parapsychology 
subject, briefly 2 Perfect example 3 Gowild 4 Annoying 5 Jock's channel 6 Number of sides 
in a decagon 7 Squealer 8 Rubbish holder 9 Fort _. Fla. 
10 Cut, as expenses 11 Edgar Anan Poe story, with "The" 
12 Its brands Include Frito-Lay and Tropicana 
13 Commercials 18 Combat with fighter-bombers 22 Symbol by the phrase "You are here" 23 Chicago's winter 
hrs. 25 O.K. Corral gunslinger 26 Decorative gratings 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Lynn Lampe!  
28 One of 100 on the Hill: Abbr. 31 Ink stain 33 Soapy froth 35 Cheapskate 36 Yeats's homeland 37 Ninth-inning relief pitcher 38 Source of PIN money?  39 Salad cube 40 John Steinbeck book, with "The" 42 Hacky Sack, basically 43 Form rust, say 44 Popeye's Olive 46 Indigenous 47 Sty : hogs :: __ :horses  49. George M, who composed ·over There" 52 Holds the title to 54 Swimmers' distances 55 Money for the senioryrs . 57 Afternoon social 58 Antlered animal 59 Black gao  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute; or. with a credit card, 1-800-814·5554. · Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years~ 1·888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles. or visit nylimes,comlmobilel<Word tor more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($39.95 a year), Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay, Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comileamingtxwords. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
JUMBLE 

~J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
I SULEO 
rJ 1 b 


tPOOPSE I 
Saturday's I Jumbles: Answer: 


HANDY 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jell Knurek 
ON A GOI...F COURSE, MANY RICH GUYS CAN BE:--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) LATHE TURKEY AMPERE 

THE DOME PIECE 
HAUMAR/C P£0PU, I HJIIIJ A 


,,...AN,.uK.-'u,.. YOI.IRH GOIMT ro PAY MUCH MONIY? W6U., NorR6 PIP II" FOR THEIR I!AST'ER MASS. 
I GIJBS tr COIIIPII'r HURT­
MOR6 PASSION! UKE '1'011 MEMIII"f I'/lANK, CAN WI fHr MOR6 FAKI lUOOP UPTHERE? 
\ 

What the last-minute fitting did to the tailor's evening olans -"ALTERED" THEM 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
I THE OBSERVER 
I 
I 
l f 
I 
I 
PORTSMonday, April 6, 2009 
I 
BASEBALL 
Finishing the job 
Johnson, Dupra pitch complete games en route to sweep of'Cats 
By MATT GAMBER, ALEX BARKER and MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writers 
Notre Dame needed its bullpen to record just two outs over the weekend, as the Irish beat Villanova three times for their first Big East series sweep since last April's sweep of the Wildcats. 
Notre Dame (19-1 0, 5-4 Big East) got complete game victories from sophomores Cole Johnson and Brian Dupra in the first two games, and junior Eric Maust threw 8 113 innings in the tail end of Saturday's doubleheader to earn the win. 
Johnson (4-0, 2.40 ERA) stymied the Wildcats (14-15, 1-8) 
Notre Dame junior pitcher Eric Maust delivers a pitch to a Villanova batter during see JOHNSON/page 22 Saturday's 9-3 win over the Wildcats. 

page 24 
NO SOFTBALL 
Team vvins three over weekend 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
The Irish took three of four games in Big East competition this weekend, splitting a dou­bleheader with Pittsburgh Saturday and routing Seton Hall twice Sunday. 
Notre Dame (21-12, 7-2 Big East) lost the first game 5-2 Saturday, ending its eight­game win streak, before com­ing back for a 7-1 win in the second. Sunday, the Irish won the first game 9-0 and the second 13-0. Both contests were shortened to five innings. 
In her two starts, freshman pitcher Jody Valdivia (8-5) gave up only one run in 12 innings of work. She struck 
see VALDIVIA/ page 21 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish run team-record unbeaten start to 9-0 vs. Falcons 
the tone for the contest with a "We didn't let them get going Irish offense came to life in the half.
By MIKE GOTIMER strong defensive effort. in the transition game where second quarter. Sophomore On the whole, Corrigan said he 
Sports Writer 
"Defensively we played really they're really good and forced David Earl scored the first of his liked what he saw out of the 
well," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan them into a half-field game," three goals on the day to give offense. 
No. 4 Notre Dame extended its said. "We really limited their Corrigan said. Notre Dame a 2-0 lead early in "I was happy with our offen­unbeaten record to 9-0, a school opportunities. From early in the The first period was quiet the period, and junior long-stick sive performance," Corrigan record, Saturday thanks to a 10-game, we made it obvious that offensively. Senior attaek Ryan midl1elder Mike Creighton fol­said. "We maintained possession 4 win over Air Force. The win they were gonna have to work to Hoff scored off an assist from lowed with his !irst goal of the of the ball better and kept pres­also extended Notre Dame's pro­create quality chances." junior attack Neal Hicks with year to increase the Irish lead to sure off the defense." gram-record home winning Much of Notre Dame's success 3:51 left in the opening period to three. Earl then scored baek-to­Air Force got on the board streak to 24 games. on defense was a result of its put the Irish up 1-0 at the end of back goals to seal his hat trick with 54 seconds left in the first 
The Irish took control of the ability to limit Air Force's transi­the first quarter. and give Notre Dame a 5-0 lead game early and were able to set tion game. Despite the slow start, the with 4:52 remaining in the first see AIR FORCE/page 22 
NO WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
ND earns two Big East wins 
Byers, Sciascia lead squad to easy wins over Cincy, L'ville 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
The No. 9 Irish rolled through the weekend, earning two Big East conference wins by defeating Cincinnati 16-5 and Louisville 20-8. 
The Irish move to 11-2 on the season overall, with a 4-1 Big East record, good enough for sole possession of third place in the conference. 
In Friday's matchup against the Bearcats, the Irish were Jed by their top scorers, senior Jillian Byers, who scored five times for the Irish, and junior Gina Scioscia, who chipped in two more goals and three assists, and by sophomore 
see SCIOSCWpage 22 


SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary's falls in 
two straight vs. Al111a 
Belles lose back-to­hack games for the first time all season 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

The Belles' seven-game win­ning streak came to an abrupt end this weekend as the team dropped a pair of games to Alma. 
Saint Mary's (18-4, 4-2 MIAA) and dropped to fourth in the MIAA rankings. 
The Scots' (16-9, 6-2 MIAAl bats were silnnced for the better part of the opening match, as Belles freshman 
Monica  Palieki  kept  them  
guessing  her  first  time  
through the lineup.  

But Alma, who finished first in the MIAA regular season standings last year, wouldn't be shut out for long. The Scots erupted for three runs in the bottom of the fourth and six in the bottom of the sixth to cruise to a 9-1 win in five innings. 
"We came out real flat in the first four innings." Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. "We were just a little intimidated, weren't really playing our game, so it kind of took us out of it right away." 
Palicki, who entered the game with an ERA of 1.18 and 20 strikeouts on the year, suf­fered the loss. Freshman Kristen Nelson was responsi­ble for the Belles' lone run. smashing her second big fly of the season over the center field wall in the top of the fifth. 
Unable to prevent the Scots' 
see SCOTS/page 21 




