~--­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Concert kicks off inaugural celebration in D.C. 
Thousands come to see show at National Mall 
ByJENNMETZ News Editor 
WASHINGTON -Some of the biggest names in music, televi­sion and f:tlm performed live in a free concert on the National Mall in front of hundreds of thou­sands Sunday, but the loudest applause went to President­
For more 

elect Barack 
Obama. photos see Supporters page 9 flocked to the Lincoln Memorial to witness "We Are One," a concert to kick off a three-day celebration leading up to Obama's historic inauguration Tuesday. The program was part history lesson with film mon­
see CONCERT/page 8 



College Detns leader travels to Washlngton for historic day 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
WASHINGTON -When Sen. Barack Obama became President­elect Barack Obama on Nov. 4, Notre Dame senior Spencer Howard knew where he would be on Jan. 20. 
Throngs of people departed the National Mall Sunday afternoon after the pre-Inauguration Day "We Are One" concert, an event that featured the president-elect and Vice President-elect Joe Biden and their families, as well as sev­eral dozen big-name actors and performers. Howard, the co-presi­dent of the College Democrats of Notre Dame, was standing at the corner of 18th St. and E. following the concert. 

Howard watched election night coverage on Nov. 4 from the Democratic headquarters in South Bend, and when the results came back in favor of Obama, he knew he had an aunt and an uncle in Lorton, Va. who would be willing to loan him a bed for a few nights in January. 
Driving with a friend, Howard left Notre Dame Saturday at noon and arrived in Virginia at about midnight. 
As he drove east to the Washington D.C. region, he .said he saw many cars with Obama stick­ers on their bumpers. 
"Stopping at rest areas, people were talking about [the inaugura­tion]," Howard said. 
He arrived in downtown Washington Sunday morning short­ly before noon, and a few hours 
later squeezed into the crowd of people gathered on the National Mall to watch musical acts like Bruce Springsteen, U2, Beyonce and John Mellencamp and speak­ers like Tom Hanks and Jamie Foxx. 
Like most Americans, Howard saw Obama for the first time when he delivered the keynote address at the 2004 Democratic National Convention. 
"I thought it would be eight years later because I was hoping [Sen. John] Kerry would win, but I told my mom while I was watching that I thought [Obama] would be the next president," he said. "It was a little sooner than I expected." 
Howard went to work for Obama starting in the summer of 2008, 
see LEADER/page 8 


ND ROTC teams take second 


NDSP warns of 


By LIZ LEFEBVRE 
News Writer 
The 23rd Annual Flyin' Irish Basketball Invitational drew 51 ROTC teams from across the country to campus this weekend, and Notre Dame came just short of win­ning both the men's and women's titles. 
The tournament, hosted by Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC, lasted Friday night through Sunday afternoon at the JACC, when the Notre Dame women's Air Force team and men's Navy team earned second place in their 
see ROTC/page 6 

Observer Staff Report 
According to recent news reports, Rickey Allen Robbins, a convicted sex offender reportedly fled parole in Lake County, Ore. on Dec. 12, 2008, may have been seen on the 

Robbins 
campus of Indiana University South Bend 



sex offender in area 
last week. 
Robbins has a history of com­mitting crimes on or near college campuses. He was released from prison in December after serving time for a sex crime. He has fam­ily living in southeast Indiana. 
Robbins is a white 58-year-old male. He is 5-foot-9 and weighs about 190 pounds, with brown hair and hazel eyes, NDSP said. 
If you see Robbins on campus, immediately contact Notre Dame Security Police at 574-631-5555. If you see Robbins off campus, contact the local police by calling 911. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 19, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Strea111 of 
•


consciousness 
It's currently 12:45 a.m. on Monday morning. I've been in The Observer office since 2 p.m. minus the hour and a half I took for dinner at Saint Mary's. I'll proba­bly be here for at least another hour and a half, then I'll get six hours of sleep and head to my intern­ship at the South Bend Tribune for 
Liz Harter 
four hours. After that I'll head to 
Saint Mary's
class, do my home­
Editor
work and will be right back in this same seat at 7 p.m. tomorrow night to do this all over again -though hopefully without having to write the Inside Column. 
Anyway, I hope laying out my schedule for you helps to explain why I cannot come up with a cohesive topic for the Inside Column. So instead. you get the random thoughts that have been swimming in my head for the past 10 hours. 
+ 
LOST starts this week! Yay! It has been way too long since I've been able to obsess over Sawyer, Kate, Jack and, yes, even Locke. Things to think about: Is Jin really dead? Will Jack convince everyone to go back to the island? What did Sawyer whisper to Kate before he jumped out of the helicopter?

+ 
Last week's episode of "The Office" was one of the best I've ever seen·. AfteF spending four hours watching the BBC's version of the show wth my family in Salzburg, Austria over Christmas break ­the BBC was the only channel in English ... unless you count all the music videos on MTV -I was ready to get away from Gareth and Tim and back to Dwight and Jim. Thankfully, Andy and Dwight's duel delivered as Andy hit Dwight with his car in a masterful display of wit. 

+ 
Forest husbands. If you haven't seen the movie "Defiance" you have no idea what I'm talking about. And if the box office results from this weekend are any indication -the Daniel Craig, Leiv Schreiber drama came in at number eight -not many of you know what I'm talking about, therefore I'm done with this topic. 

+ 
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. Why doesn't Saint Mary's or Notre Dame recog­nize this holiday? Having the day off would be nice. The semester is already stressful after one week. I was talking with a South Bend Tribune staff writer last week about the holiday. She was sad because she thinks kids these days don't know what MLK did. I was scared to admit that aside from his "I Have a Dream" speech, I don't really know specifics about him. Apparently, I'm not too scared to write that in an Inside Column though. Hey, I asked a guy out in one of these things, that pretty much takes any fear away.

+ 
Back to TV. "Friday Night Lights" is an amazing show. I became obsessed with it over the summer when Lyla Garrity mentioned Saint Mary's College in episode five. Granted, we were just that school across the street from ND, but hey, let's take any mentions we can get in prime­time. Season three started on NBC last Friday. I haven't watched the episode because, unlike most other people in the United States, I was watching "Defiance." They really should move FNL to another day in the week. Friday doesn't work for me. Thankfully, I can watch full episodes of it on NBC.com. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU BELIEVE? 






Deshaun Gasque  Ethan Hatch  Joey Leary  John Bracke  Kyle Ricketts  
sophomore Alumni  sophomore off-campus  senior off-campus  junior off-campus  senior off-campus  
"I believe that life is what you  "I believe in global cooling. "  "7o-degree weather."  "I believe in Santa Claus."  "I believe in a risk  

make ofit." 

Shoplifter gets run over twice by her getaway car 
CAPE CORAL, Fla. ­Authorities are looking for a shoplifter who was run over twice by her getaway car after stealing $1,200 worth of designer purses from a Cape Coral store. A 
T.J. Maxx security guard told police she saw a woman stuff six designer Dooney & Bourke purses into her pants Tuesday morning and walk out of the store. The guard said she was confronting the woman when a car pulled up. 
A report said the shoplifter tried to get into the vehide but leU out and was run over by the car. She then got up and jumped onto the hood of the car. As the car was driving away, the report said the woman feU off and was run over again. On her third attempt, she finally made it into the vehide. 
Woman crashes, contin­ues to hair appointment 
BOYNTON BEACI-1, Fla. -An elderly woman in Palm Beach County drove her car into a man on a scooter and continued on to her hair appointment, police said. 
Louise Davidson, 77, was arrested Thursday for leav­ing the scene of a crash involving injuries, Boynton Beach police said. 
Police spokeswoman Stephanie Slater said the woman was turning right when she veered into the path of the oncoming scooter that had the right of way. The man was thrown onto the windshield and then fell to the road, she said. 
Police said they later spotted the woman's car after she had her hair appointment. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
c:::: 
LLI 
:::c 
!ci: 
LLI 
~ 

Q
..... 
~

e.
<( 

* * * *
*** *
**• *
(.) 
0 

HIGH 25 HIGH 10 HIGH 17 HIGH 35
...I LOW 8 LOW -11 LOW 9 LOW 20 
appropriate rate ofreturn. " 
IN BRIEF 

A prayer service will be held in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. today from 11 a.m. to 
11:30 a.m. in the Main Building Rotunda. The service will be led by President, Rev. John Jenkins. A reception will follow. 
Saint Mary's Multicultural and Student Programs is spon­soring a Martin Luther King, Jr. Commemorative March today at 5 p.m. The event will begin in the Student Center Atrium and end in Haggar Parlor. Hefreshments will be served afterwards. 
Mass will be held in honor of Blessed Basil Moreau on Tuesday at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The service is open to the pub­lie. 
IIealth and Hecreation will be having a Dance Kick-Off on Tuesday at 6:45 p.m. at RSRC AR 2. Registration can be done via RecRegister. The class is open to students, faculty, and staff. 
Campus Ministry is holding a panel discussion titled "Men in Black: Inspirations and Reflections" Tuesday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. ·The panel will be made up of priests talking about their life and experiences in the priesthood. 
Tim Robbins will be giving a lecture called "Theater as Community" at 7 p.m. Wednesday in Leighton Concert Hall in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be pur­chased online or through the ticket office for $5. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 
~ 

HIGH 33 HIGH 27 LOW 23 LOW 13 
Atlanta 41 I 24 Boston 35 I 19 Chicago 181 14 Denver 61 I 35 Houston 71 I 43 Los Angeles 81 I 49 Minneapolis 221 9 New York 32 I 21 Philadelphia 32 I 20 Phoenix 79 I 50 Seattle 47 I 33 St. Louis 29 I 21 Tampa 69 I 54 Washington 32 I 20 
Monday, January 19, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMCbook drive benefits area schools 
College partners with Senator Lugar to help improve literacy in Indiana 
the senator's book drive," Language (ENL) and Special
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Critchlow said. "I thought it Education classes. The stu-
News Writer 
was a perfect dents in the event for Saint academy Saint Mary's Office of Mary's to par­"Each book that is also help in Social and Civil Engagement ticipate in." the Read-to­
collected will put us one
(OSCE) held a book drive last The event a-Child and month in cooperation with a asked for gen­step closer to achieving Pen Pals program that senator tly used books this goal and to programs, in Richard Lugar began to help that were which Saint
helping the children of
improve literacy in Indiana. geared toward Mary's stu­
the South Bend 
"Giving children the prop­infants dentli write er tools will put them on through third community." to students track for a better educa­grade stu­at an area tion," Lugar said in a press dents. Books primary
Olivia Barzydlo Critchlow 
release. "Books provide that were collected school. 
assistant director of the
vital function. Reading with in the OSCE "Along children is essential so that office on the Office of Civil and Social with the it may enhance their learn­second floor of Engagement books that ing, challenge their imagina­the Student Saint Mary's tion and open their eyes to Center and was able to new possibilities." other various places on cam­collect, books from collec­
The book drive ran from pus. tion spots all over Indiana Dec. 11 to Jan. 9 and Olivia The collected items will be will be divided up to go to Barzydlo delivered to schools with children in Critchlow, Coquillard need," Critchlow said.
"Books provide that 

assistant Primary Saint Mary's managed to
vital function. Reading

director of -Center, gather 182 books over the OCSE and with children is Lincoln course of the month during director of the Primary its first year of participating
essential so that it may

College Center and in the drive.
enhance their learning, at
Academy of W a r r e n "Children should have Tutoring challenge their Primary least one book of their own {CAT) pro­Center, three to read with a tutor or at
imagination and open

gram helped title one home. With the great
their eyes to new

bring the schools the amount of need in our com­event to cam­possibilities." CAT program munity, this is not always pus. works with in possible," Critchlow said. "A repre-the South "Each book that is collected
Richard Lugar

sentative from Bend area. will put us one step closer to 
senator

Sen. Lugar's Through the achieving this goal and to office was vis-CAT program, helping the children of the iting Saint Mary's College to students teach English, South Bend community." learn about the College reading, and mathematics as Academy of Tutoring well as being te-acher assis­Contact Ashley Charnley at Program and told me about tants in English as a New acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Professor becomes health ambassador 
Special to the Observer 
Frank Collins, George and Winfred Clark Professor of Biological Sciences and for­mer director of the Eck Institute for Global Health at the University of Notre Dame, has been named an ambassador in Research! America's Paul G. Rogers Society for Global Health Research. He is one of 25 experts named to the socie­ty who will advocate for greater U.S. investment in global health research. 
The Rogers Society, named for the late Florida Rep. Paul G. Rogers, a renowned advocate for health research and Research !America chair emeritus, works to increase awareness of, and make the case for, greater U.S. invest­ment in research to fight diseases that affect the world's poorest nations. 
Collins was one of the key figures in the 2002 sequenc­ing of the genome of Anopheles gambiae, the pri­mary mosquito species that transmits the malaria para­site Plasmodium falciparum to humans. With completion of the sequencing, scientists have the complete genetic information on an infectious organism (Plasmodium fal­ciparum), its natural host (humans) and the insect 
(Anopheles gambiae) that transmits the disease from person to person. 
The Collins laboratory also directs two other major malaria projects. One is a contract from the National Institutes of Health to devel­op and manage a Web­based bioinformatics resource center that pro­vides scientists with access to all data related to the genomes of arthropod vec­tors. Management of this resource, called VectorBase, involves both developmental work in the area of bioinfor­matics and computer sci­ence as well as the direct analysis of genomes that are displayed and managed by VectorBase. 
Collins' other major research activity is direct­ing the Malaria Transmission Consortium, a group of scientists at multi­ple research institutions who work on developing more effective ways to measure malaria transmis­sion and use those meas­ures to be-tter assess the effectiveness of malaria control methods that target mosquito vectors. The proj­ect, funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, involves field research activities in Tanzania, Kenya, Zambia and Indonesia. 
• 


Do you consider the word "motivated" an understatement? \\le thought S().
c 

It's time for your hard work to pay-off within an organization that was once again named onf; of BusinessWeek's '50 Best Places To Launch A Career. We offer a collaborative, inclusive cuiture. vVith customizable careers, prnfessional development. and benefits. And a cornmrtment to community, the environment, and making tirne for famiiy. tfs your futtn'li'.,How hw will you tak€ it? 
~ For an electronic information packet, text "NOTREDAME" to 78573. ~ Visit us on the web at deloitte.com/us/notredame. 
Deloitte LLP and its sLJbsid:aries are a~"' equal opportunity empicyer. 
About Deloitte 

Deloitte refers to one or more of Deioitte Touche Tohmatsu, a Swi5;; Verein, and its r;et•Nork of member firms, each of which is a legaily separate ~H~€! ir:depE:?"ltH:nt ~nt1:y. P!e.asH soo V'l'v\'W.deloitte.<:om/abolJt ·fc:-r a d·~·taihKi descr:p't:cn d th0 le9cJi !.'!J:.J<ture o·f Delo1t1"e Tou<h~t: Tc-hm;~!S~l am! its 
Deloitte,.
member fums. Pl~as~ see v,.'\rvw.delo:He.<c·m/us/about for a de::.::iled dest:r:puon of the legai stfucture of 0-eloitte liP and its sub:;id1.::ries. 
Copyrlght C 2008 Deloitte Development LLC All rights res~rved 
page 4 The Observer u NEWS Monday, January 19, 2009 

Cold temperatures cause car problenls 
with a jump start, he said. 
By CASEY KENNY 

The National Safety Council 
News Writer 

(NSC) Web site offers additional suggestions for cold weather As the temperature in South preparation including that car Bend continues to rival that of owners "start with a checkup the artie tundra, Notre Dame that includes the ignition, students know the necessity of brakes, distributor, wiring, wearing layers of protective hoses, filters, fan belts, spark cold weather gear to go outside. plugs, antifreeze level and 
What they may not know, however, is that, while they are bundling up, they should also be taking pro­tective meas­ures to make sure their car is in working order. 
"Students should check their car's bat­
tery and charg­ing system regu­larly and keep their gas tank 

"Students should check their car's battery and charging system regularly and keep their gas tank filled to reduce moisture in the fuel system and prevent freezing." 
David Chapman assistant director of NDSP 
freeze line." 
Many drivers often overlook the importance of the cooling system but, without proper protection, the coolant can freeze and dam­age an engine in low tempera­tures. 
Suggestions from the NSC also include the advice that driv­ers "have an ice scraper, snow 
filled to reduce moisture in the fuel system and prevent freez­ing," said David Chapman, assistant director of Notre Dame/Security Police. 
The freezing temperatures can cause a car battery to freeze, leaving the car immo­bile, he said. 
To avoid this deep freeze and dead battery, "students should start and run their cars every coupte of days during cold weather and not let their cars sit for extended periods of time," Chapman said. 
Should a student find that their car battery is dead, though, NDSP will assist them 

brush, shovel and bag of salt or cat litter in the-car," that they "inspect the car's wiper blades, windshield fluid level, tire tread and pressure," and "check that the heater, defroster and rear defogger are all working prop­erly." 
Drivers should also clear their cars of snow before driving to avoid a loss of visibility if it blows back onto the windshield or onto other cars. Snow should also be removed from the head­lights and break lights to ensure visibility to other motorists. 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 
Stein conference returns to campus 
Identity Project hosts event that addresses women's issues 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 

The Identity Project of Notre Dame will host the fourth annual Edith Stein conference, which addresses what it means to be a woman and focuses on issues that affect women. 
ThW; year's conference, which will be on Feb. 13-14 and is entitled "Love: What Hurts and What Works," will specifically look at love, and how distortions of love can hurt and how authentic love can heal, said Caitlin Podlaski, president of the Identity project. The confer­ence will also address issues such as eating disorders, sex­ual violence, self image and relationships. 
Podlaski said the confer­ence is about getting at the heart of what it means to be a woman and creating dis­course on real issues women confront every day. 
"As Notre Dame students, we are women investing a lot in ourselves and in our edu­cation, and it's a hard deci­sion to make, whether we are going to get married and have kids, pursue a career, or do both," Podlaski said. 
Co-Vice president of the Identity Project Joanna Emilian said the conference builds on the goals of the Identity Project, which are based in starting conversa­tions about living life in a way that is healthy, fulfilling and in accord with human dignity. 
"As people, we have ques­tions inside of us and we are looking for answers," Emilian disorders and homosexuality, Podlaski said. 
"We really want to emphasize that this is positive, not reactionary," Podlaski said. "This is dia­logue that needs to hap­pen." 
Among the speakers will be a psycholo­gist who will discuss the dif­ferences between men's and women's 

"As Notre Dame students, we are women investing a lot in ourselves and in our education, and it's a hard decision to make, whether we are going to get married and have kids, pursue a career, or do both. ·· 
Caitlyn Podlaski president of the Identity Project 
brains and how that affects the way they express love. The conference will also fea­ture a woman who is the mother of 10 and a Ph.D. can­didate in economics, students who will share personal sto­ries about struggles with pornography and eating dis­orders and Bishop D'Arcy of the diocese of Forth Wayne­South Bend, Podlaski said. 
"We feel blessed to have the support of the Bishop as well as Father Jenkins," she said. 
Podlaski added the Identity Project would like to have Notre Dame freshman Melissa 
who want to find common ground and discuss these issues. 
"It's not about liberal or conserva­tive. It's not about Catholic or not Catholic," she said. 
Emilian and Podlaski said the conference was a freeing experience for. them the first time they attended it three years 
ago. 

"It was so liberating for me leaving the conference the first time," Podlaski said. "I had a deeper understanding of who I was and how I could he a happier person. It was like a sense of floating." 
Emilian added: "You feel a lot of pressure in today's world," Emilian said. "I went to the conference and it was very affirming that I am free to be who I am. It was exhila­rating." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



SMC theater group attends festival 
Thespians Unplugged travels to Michigan for regional competition 
performances and competi­tions at the American College Theatre Festival (ACTF) in Saginaw, Mich. 
Activities are held in areas such as play­writing, audi­tioning, voice, movement, stage combat, theater for chil­dren, scene painting and scenery con­struction and 

"It was an absolute blast to be in a place surrounded by so many people who were as passionate -ifnot more so -about the-same things I'm passionate about." 
Miranda Baxter senior 
are offered to students and faculty members. 
ACTF is one of eight similar festivals held nationwide dur­ing the months of January and February and includes work­shops in playwriting, audition-campus. 

Furman joined senior Miranda Baxter in com­petition during the five-day festival. Baxter participated in a competition where she sub­mitted her stage manage­ment prompt book from the play "Lend Me a Tenor," which was per­formed at Saint Mary's last 
Fall. Furman presented the lighting design she created for the same show. The design won a Barbizon Award for Theatrical Design Excellence. 
A third student, sophomore Kristina Marinelli, was nomi­nated to compete for the Irene Ryan Acting Award as the character Maggie in "Lend Me a Tenor" but was unable to participate due to illness. 
The festival helped students gain an understanding of what it is like to work in theater and allowed them to possibly bring back some ideas from other schools at the festival. 
"Upon leaving [ACTF], I felt more in control of what will be expected of me as an artist," said junior Jackie Cattie, another Saint Mary's student in attendance at the event. 
The club's members also enjoyed being able to meet people from surrounding states and discuss their shared interests. 
"It was an absolute blast to be in a place surrounded by so many people who were as pas­sionate -if not more so ­about the same things I'm passionate about," Baxter said. 
The theater department will be using the skills they acquired at the festival to help stage their spring produetion of "Candide." 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 
said. "We want to answer these questions in a way that is uplifting, and will help us live in a way that is truly ful­filling to us." 
The conference will host more than 20 speakers who will present on themes such as motherhood and father­hood, violence against women, pornography, eating Buddie speak at the event. Buddie, who wrote a letter to The Observer on Nov. 13, crit­icizing the hook up culture, would speak as part of a panel examining true beauty and the hook up culture, she said. 
Emilian said the conference also has the support of many different groups on campus 
Fonnerexecgranted new bail hearing 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
While most students used their winter break to relax and prepare for the second semester, seven Saint Mary's students spent part of their time attending workshops, 

ing, voice, movement, stage combat, theater for children, scene painting and scenery construction. 
"While there were some long days, the festival was a very helpful experience for those who had never gone before," said senior Annaliese Furman, president of Thespians Unplugged, a theater group on 
Associated Press 

IOWA CITY -The former chief executive officer of the nation's largest kosher meat­packing plant was granted a new hearing over whether he should remain jailed as he awaits a trial on charges stem­ming from a large immigration raid. 
Chief U.S. District Court judge Linda Reade said in an order last week she will hear testimony and consider writ­ten evidence at the new bail hearing Thursday for former Agriprocessors CEO Sholom Rubashkin. 
He originally faced 12 counts of bank fraud, harbor­ing illegal immigrants, docu­ment fraud and identity theft. He and three other men were named in a 99-count indict­ment last Thursday that added charges of money laundering and violating orders from the 
U.S. agriculture secretary. 

The Postville plant was raid­ed May 12 by immigration offi­cials, leading to the arrests of 389 people. 
Rubashkin has pleaded not guilty and is being held at the Dubuque County Jail. An earli­er request to be released was rejected our of fears that he might flee to Israel. 
Prosecutors also have 
alleged Rubashkin tried to tamper with evidence after earlier being released from jail on Oct. 30. He was returned to jail after being arrested on bank fraud allega­tions. 
U.S. Attorney's Office spokesman Bob Teig said the order for the new bail hearing was "not unexpected," but declined to comment further. 
Rubashkin attorney Guy Cook said Saturday in an e­mail to The Associated Press that Rubashkin's defense team would be presenting witnesses to back up claims that Rubashkin was not a flight risk. 
His defense also said the invocation of an Israeli emi­gration law, called the Law of Return, improperly clouded evidence against Rubashkin at an earlier bail hearing. 
Along with the federal charges against Rubashkin, Agriprocessors and top man­agers have been accused of violating state and federal laws dealing with child labor, wage requirements and safety rules. The company has filed for bankruptcy protection. 
If convicted, Rubashkin faces up to 30 years in prison and a minimum fine of $1 mil­lion on each of the bank fraud counts, the most serious of the charges. 








ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 19, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Palm oil demand threatens orangutans 
TANJUNG PUTING NATIONAL PARK ­Hoping to unravel the mysteries of human ori­gin, anthropologist Louis Leakey sent three young women to Africa and Asia to study our closest relatives: It was chimpanzees for Jane Goodall, mountain gorillas for Dian Fossey and the elusive, solitary orangutans for Birute Mary Galdikas. 
Nearly four decades later, 62-year-old Galdikas, the lea.'it famous of his "angels," is the only one still at it. And the red apes she studies in Indonesia are on the verge of extinction because forests are being clear-cut and burned to make way for lucrative palm oil plantations. 
Galdikas worries many questions may never be answered. How long do orangutans live in the wild? How far do the males roam? And how many mates do they have in their lifetime? 
Election manager killed by bomb 
BAGHDAD -A suicide bomber killed a cam­paign manager for a major Sunni party near Iraq's northern city of Mosul on Sunday, the lat­est sign that ethnic and sectarian tensions are rising ahead of this month's provincial elections. 
Police said the attacker detonated his explo­sives inside the reception area of Hassan al­Luheibi's home in Qayara, 40 miles (60 kilome­ters) south of Mosul, after saying he had press­ing business to discuss. 
Bodyguards kept the bomber from going inside, but al-Luheibi emerged from the inner rooms to investigate the commotion and was killed in the blast, according to Col. Safaa Abdul­Razzaq. Two guards also were wounded, he said. 
However, a police officer at the scene later said a fellow policeman was also killed in the attack and three others -including two police­men -were wounded. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

little Debbie snack foods recalled 
WASHINGTON -The company that sells Little Debbie snacks announced a recall Sunday of peanut butter crackers because of a potential link to a deadly salmonella outbreak. 
The voluntary recall came one day after the government advised consu]11ets to avoid eat­ing cookies, cakes, ice cream and other foods with peanut butter until health oflicials learn more about the contamination. 
The announcement by McKee Foods Corp. of Collegedale, Tenn., about two kinds of Little Debbie products was another in a string of voluntary recalls following the most recent guidance by health officials. 

Abstinence-only funding in jeopardy 
NEW YORK -With the exit of the Bush administration, critics of abstinence-only sex education will be making an aggressive push to cut off federal funding for what they con­sider an ineffective, sometimes harmful pro­gram. 
How quickly and completely they reach their goal is uncertain, however, as conser­vative supporters of abstinence education lobby Congress and President-elect Barack Obama to preserve at least some of the fund­ing, which now totals $176 million a year. 
And even if federal funding is halted, some states -such as Georgia -are determined to keep abstinence programs going on their own, ensuring that this front in the culture wars will remain active. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Swimmer rescues coach from pool 
GREENWOOD -A high school swimming coach passed out while under water and was rescued by a freshman team member who spot­ted that he wa.'i in trouble and dragged him to the side of the pool. 
Coach Chas Grimm had challenged team members to see whether any of them could swim farther than him without coming up for air dur­ing Wednesday afternoon's practice. Freshman Hannah Fuller said Grimm wa.'i on his third lap when she saw him suddenly twist and float toward the surface, but his head remained underwater. 
GAZA 


Israeli troops withdraw from Gaza 
Hamas ceases fire, Israeli government declares an end to three-week war 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY -Israeli troops, some smiling and dancing, began to withdraw from Gaza Sunday after their government and Hamas mili­tants declared an end to a three-week war. But neither side achieved long-term goals, and the burden of con­solidating the fragile calm fell to world leaders. 
The truce brought relief to Gaza's citizens, who took stock of the devastation in relative safety for the first time since Israel launched the offensive on Dec. 27. And it brought more trauma, as rescue workers in surgical masks ventured into what were once no-go areas and pulled 100 bodies from build­ings pulverized by bombs. 
"We've pulled out my nephew, but I don't know how many are still under there," Zayed Hadar said as he sifted through the rubble of his flattened home in the northern town of Jebaliya. 
Tension eased in southern Israel, the target of Palestinian rocket fire, even though Hamas launched nearly 20 rockets in a final salvo before announcing a cease-fire. Three Israelis were lightly wounded, while two Palestinians were killed in last-minute fighting, medics said. 

Israel and Hamas do not coastal waters and border The world welcomed the Mahmoud Abbas. recognize each other and crossings remained under apparent end to the latest The comment by Foreign ended up separately declar­Israeli control. round of fighting in the Minister Manouchehr ing cease-fires 12 hours "We didn't set out to con­Middle East. U.N. Secretary­Mottaki was a reminder that apart after strenuous efforts quer Gaza. We didn't set out General Ban Ki-moon urged the tiny coastal territory is by Egyptian mediators to get to control Gaza. We don't a quick influx of humanitari­just one piece of a larger an agreement. Israel first want to remain in Gaza, and an aid to the isola'ted conflict between Israel and a1mounced a unilateral we intend on leaving Gaza as enclave, and Secretary of regional enemies. cease-fire that took effect fast as p.ossible," Olmert said State Condoleezza Rice -in In Egypt, European and early Sunday, with Barnas at a dinner in Jerusalem with the final days of her tenure Arab leaders were seeking a initially vowing to keep fight­the leaders of Britain, -said a cease-fire must be long-term deal to solidify the ing until all troops left Gaza. France, Germany and Spain. durable. truce. Delivering humanitari­Later Sunday, Hamas also A swift withdrawal would Iran, which has supplied an aid to rebuild Gaza, open­said it would hold its fire to reduce the likelihood of rockets to Hamas, said a key ing its borders and choking give Israeli forces time to pull clashes between militants to calm is the opening of bor­ofl' the flow of weapoQs into out. and Israeli troops that could der crossings that Israel and Gaza through tunnels under 
Prime Minister Ehud rupture the truce. Egypt have kept virtl}ally the 8-mile Gaza-Egypt bor­Olmert said his country had Despite losses suffered, sealed since the militant der and at sea -perhaps no desire to stay in Gaza, a Barnas Prime Minister Ismail group staged a violent with an international naval Mediterranean strip of 1.4 Haniyeh claimed "a heavenly takeover of Gaza in 2007 force -emerged as key million people that was victory" in remarks broad­from forces of the rival Fatah goals from their summit at vacated by Israel in 2005 cast on Al-Jazeera Arabic faction, headed by Western­the Sinai desert resort of even though Gaza's airspace, news channel. backed Palestinian President Sharm el-Sheik. 

Plane'senginesla;tpowersimultaneously 
an afternoon briefing on the investi­One second later, she said, "the 
Associated Press 

gation. sound of thumps and a rapid The crippled plane, hoisted from decrease in engine sounds" could be 
NEW YORK -The flight data the river late Saturday, remains on heard. recorder of the US Airways jet that top of a barge moored to a seawall in "The captain makes a radio call to landed in the Hudson River shows Manhattan a few blocks from the (Air Traffic Control) calling Mayday, both engines lost power simultane­World Trade Center site. and reports that they hit birds, lost ously, investigators said Sunday. Higgins said the recorders showed both engines and were returning to 
Information from the flight that Flight 1549 reached a maximum LaGuardia" Airport, she said. recorders on the doomed aircraft was altitude of 3,200 feet before losing Higgins said the accounts on the released as investigators worked to power simultaneously in both engines cockpit voice recorder were consis­remove its fuel. After that is complet­before its splash-landing Thursday tent with interviews with the flight ed, officials hope to move the dam­afternoon. crew. She also praised the crew. aged plane off the river by the end of Higgins recounted excerpts from "Miracles happen because a lot of the day. communications captured by the everyday things happen for years and 
"Defueling is a pretty intricate cockpit voice recorder beginning 90 years and years," she said. "These operation, not without risk," Kitty seconds after takeoff. when the cap­people knew what they were sup­!-Iiggins of the National tain made a remark to the co-pilot posed to do and they did it and as a Transportation Safety Board said at about birds. ' result, nobody lost their life." 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, January 19, 2009 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
respective divisions. 
Thiry-eight men's teams and 13 women's teams representing all of the service branches competed in the tournament, traveling from universities such as Penn State, Clemson, the University of Virginia, and the University of Nebraska. Though a few teams had to cancel due to the weather, "the scheduling changes were easy to make and the tournament ran smoothly," said tournament officer Matt Mooney. 
In the women's final, the Marquette Navy and Marine Corps team proved to be too much for the Notre Dame Air Force, as they lost 28-16. 
"We played well on defense," freshman Ayla Bicoy said of her team's performance. "With a more controlled offense we def­initely could have scored more points and kept the game clos­er." 
In the men's final, a strong second half propelled Texas A&M to a 39-26 victory over the Notre Dame Navy. 
With the game tied at half­time, A&M's size helped the Aggies bottle up the Irish offense. Despite the loss, the Irish Navy team was still in high spirits after the game. 
"We played the best we have ever played," senior Dave Costanzo said. "This is the sec­ond time in three years we've played in the championship game. We've gotten second both times, but overall it was a great weekend." 

Teams in both the men's and women's division were divided into pools. In the men's divi­sion, the winners of the 10 pools advanced to the single­elimination playoffs, as well as the next top six teams as wild­cards. 
In the women's division, the four pool winners advanced to the playoffs, with the two win­ners continuing on to the finals. 
The tournament places a focus on promoting sportsman­ship and professionalism among the nation's future mili­tary leaders, said tournament public affairs of'ficer Samantha Nees. 
She praised .the camaraderie between schools and the friendly atmosphere of the games. 
"It's a long and challenging weekend, but it's definitely worth it for all the great people and positive attitudes," she said. "People know each other from field training, so it's always fun to be competing against familiar faces." 
Every year, the tournament presents the Colonel Moe Award to one men's and one women's team who exhibit sportsmanship, hustle, and pride. South Dakota State University swept this year's awards. 
Overall, "the tournament was a huge success," Mooney said. "It was great seeing everyone work together to make such a big tournament work well. There are always things we can improve on but the weekend definitely went well." 
Contact Liz Lefebvre at elefebvr@nd.edu 
Technologytoblockcellphonesincars 
Inventors work on product that uses CPS system for tracking software 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -Many parents would love to be able to give their teenagers a cell phone that couldn't be used while driv­ing. Now some inventors say they have come up with ways to make that possible, but they appear to be relying on wishful thinking. 
One product to hlt the market, $10-a-month sol'tware by Dallas-based WQN Inc., can dis­able a cell phone while its owner is driving. It uses GPS technolo­gy, which can tell how fast a person is traveling. But it can't know whether the person is driving -and therefore it can needlessly lock a phone. WQN, which sells cell phone and Internet security software under the name WebSafety, says it signed up about 50 customers for its first month of service. 
Aegis Mobility, a Canadian software company, plans to release a similar Global Positioning System-based prod­uct this fall, known as DriveAssistT. Aegis is in talks with big U.S. wireless phone carriers, which would have to support the software and charge families a fee of probably $10 to $20 a month, said David Teater, the company's vice president. 
The DriveAssistT system will disable a phone at driving speeds and send a message to callers or text.ers saying the per­son they are trying to reach is too busy driving. But because that person could be a non-driv­ing passenger, the approach is a blunt tool. 

Other product concepts that don~t involve GPS systems have their own !'laws. As a result, Parry Aftab, who advises fami­lies on technology and safety, suggests worried parents find another way to stop their kids from calling or texting while driving. Parents are better off taking away a child's cell phone if it is used improperly, she said. 
"More and more, we see any solution is, in large part, educa­tion and awareness, parents get­ting involved," said Aftab, exec­utive director of WiredSafety.org. Driving and cell phone usc can be a bad combination, "but so is putting on makeup and eating a three­course meal," Nlab said. "I wish technology providers would look hard at the problems before coming up with a knee-jerk solution." 
Concerns are mounting that driving while gabbing or text­messaging on a cell phone, even if it is not handheld, is unaccept­ably dangerous. The National Safety Council said this month that there should be a total ban on cell phone use while driving, citing the higher risk of acci­dents and deaths. 
At least 18 states restrict cell phone use -talking or texting -for some or all drivers, according to the insurance industry-funded Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. Yet even in those states, motorists and especially young drivers are hardly deterred. 
One of the worst accidents occurred last year in New York, when five teens were killed when their 17 -year-old driver, carrying on a text conversation, collided with a tractor-trailer rig. 
B. Michael Adler, chief execu­tive ofWQN, said his 18-year-old son came to mind as he was developing the company's soft­ware to disable a cell phone while driving. 
"He's texting messages with two hands and driving with his legs," Adler said. "You flip him the keys to the family car, you might as well be flipping him a six-pack of beer." 
WQN's surveillance service promises more than just dis­abling the phone in cars. It can monitor a person's whereabouts, notifying parents by text mes­saging when their children step ­out of designated zones or return horne. It also can turn off a cell phone at school, prevent­ing cheating by text messaging during classroom tests, based on a reading of the school's loca­tion. 
The question parents would have to ask themselves is whether they'd want to prohibit their children's activities this way. That kid you're trying to control might not be driving, but rather sitting on a train or a city bus or in the passenger seat of a buddy's car. 

Finance unequal in homeownership 
Associated Press 
WASHING:fON -When it comes to horneownership, Hispanics in New Jersey, single parents in California and senior citizens in Rhode Island all have something in common: More than a third have an unaffordable mortgage. 
Inequality in America has tra­ditionally followed familiar pat­terns of race, age and education. Those long-standing gaps have been magnified by the real estate boom and now the hlstoric bust, according to an Associated Press analysis of 2007 Census Bureau data. 
While minorities have made significant gains in wealth and home ownership since 1990, "things are going into reverse gear," and now the homeowner­ship rate for blacks and Hispanics is falling, said Edward Wolff, a New York University economist who studies income and wealth distribution. 
Nearly 9.5 million households, or nearly one out of every five of the nearly 52 million homeown­ers with a mortgage, spend 38 percent or more of their pretax income on their mortgage pay­ment, property taxes and insur­ance, the AP's analysis found. That's the new threshold to qual­ify for the loan assistance pro­gram launched last month by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage fmance companies now under government control. 
Not surprisingly, the most financially burdened are in California, Florida, Nevada and the Northeast, areas hardest hit by soaring home prices and now foreclosures. 
Yet in every state, there are many pockets of homeowners who are just one unexpected medical bill or car repair from 


falling behind on their mortgages and setting the foreclosure clock ticking. 
The AP's analysis reveals the enormous scope of the U.S. hous­ing market bust and how uneven­ly the burdens are spread, both geographically and demographi­cally. And the situation is worsen­ing -a record 10 percent of U.S. homeowners with a mortgage are at least one payment behind or were in foreclosure as of last fall, compared with 7.5 percent ~ year earlier and just under 6 per­cent in 2006. 
The burden is clearly more arduous among minority house­holds, the AP analysis fonnd. 
Just under a third of Hispanic 
homeowners spend at least 38 percent of their income on hous­ing expenses, compared with about a quarter of Asian and black households and nearly 16 percent of white households. 
In much of the country, the trend is more pronounced. For example, included among those who spent at least 38 percent of their income on housing are: 
About 40 percent of black bor­rowers in California, Nevada, Oregon and Massachusetts. 
More than 30 percent of of Asian borrowers in California and Florida. 
Nearly half of Hispanic home­owners in Rhode Island and at least 40 percent in Alaska, 




Truck exam·ined after boy's death 
Associated Press 
TACOMA -Investigators were examining pieces of the drive train from an oversized truck Sunday to learn why parts tore off the truck and struck and killed a 6-year-old boy and injured another spec­tator at a monster truck show. 
Witnesses described the boy, Sebastian Hizey, being struck in the head by a Frisbee-sized chunk of metal that tore off a truck doing doughnuts during the Monster Jam show Friday night in the Tacoma Dome. 
Police gathered loose parts of the drive train and the drive train loop, a special monster truck device that is supposed to hold the drive train on the vehicle, Bill Easterling, senior operations director for Feld Motor Sports of Aurora, Ill., told The Associated Press on Sunday. 
He said he could give no fur­ther details or description of the loose parts, including where they were found. "I've never seen the loop or the drive shaft parts come off like this," 
said Easterling, whose compa­ny is the promoter of the show. Tacoma police Officer Mark 
W. Fulghum said no further information on the parts or other aspects of the investiga­tion would be available before Monday at the earliest. · 
The second spectator struck by debris was taken to a hospi­tal, but authorities haven't dis­closed his name or condition. 
Monster truck shows have been a staple at the Tacoma Dome for more than 20 years, featuring vehicles weighing 9,000 pounds or more and equipped with 5-foot tires. Drivers pop wheelies and engage in competition. 
Feld has "a stellar safety record" with no prior signifi­cant accidents in Tacoma, said Mike Combs, city director of public assembly facilities. 
The boy's father, Jessie Hizey of Puyallup, told The News Tribune of Tacoma, a metal ring weighing 7 to 12 pounds sheared off part his son's skull. They and other relatives were sitting in grandstands 20 to 25 feet above the arena floor. 

IN LOVING MEMORY OF 
LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINTON A.B., M.A., PH.D. 27 FEB 1943-19 JAN 1994 
Monday, January 19, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 8,281.22 +68.73 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,038 94 1,051 1,762,152,522 

NASDAQ 1,529.33 +1 7 .49 ·,.··,·.··.;,.··.'
NY.-cE 
t+Nlfl·'·'·i·'·r··.'.·.·.;.·.··.·.·.'.''.r.... :· ·•5 .•·.'.·.a··.·.·.·.·..•.•..··;,····.···.·.·.·.·.·.···:·•...·•..•.•..:r.·.·.··.·:·....n.'.''.·•.·.··.··. ···••;'!;'•'?'it•:···•·············:·•:4fa
~· .. . ...:IOF. ;;IV 0_1f3Q~75o/, S&P 500 850.12 +1.57 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,31JL2S.Ell;:Ii~7@,94 FTSE 100 (London) 4,147.06 +25.95 
'COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) -13.70 -1.14 7.18 CITIGROUP (C) -8.62 -0.33 3.50 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.78 +0.66 85.06 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -3.01 -0.30 9.68 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +4.68 +0.1030 2.3040 13-WEEK BILL +15.00 +0.0150 0.1150 30-YEAR BOND -1.05 +0.0300 2.8940 5-YEAR NOTE +6.46 +0.0880 1.4510 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.21 36.30 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +32.60 839.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.48 83.33 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 90.7600 EURO 1.3322 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2421 BRITISH POUND 1.4802 


IN BRIEF 
Circuit City to close remaining 567 stores 
RICHMOND, Va. -Circuit City became the largest retailer to fall victim to the expanding financial crisis Friday, announcing it will shut down its remaining 567 U.S. stores at the cost of 34,000 more jobs after failing to sell the business. 
The closure of the nation's second-biggest con­sumer electronics retailer spells more trouble for the nations malls, and is the latest casualty of an unprecedented pullback in consumer spending that has claimed KB Toys, Mervyns LLC and Linens 'N Things. 
"Very, very sad," said Alan L. Wurtzel, son of company founder Samuel S. Wurtzel and himself a former chief executive of Circuit City. "I feel particularly badly for the people who are employed or until recently were employed." 
Richmond, Va.-based Circuit City had been seeking a buyer or a deal to refinance its debt, but the hobbled credit market and consumer worries proved insurmountable. Negotiations for an acquisition extended past midnight Thursday before finally falling through, Circuit City lawyer 
• Gregg Galardi said. 
Russia and Ukraine reach gas deal 
MOSCOW -Negotiations dragged into the early hours Sunday, but in the end the prime ministers of Russia and Ukraine announced a deal to settle the gas dispute that has drastically reduced supplies of Russian gas to Europe for nearly two weeks. 
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said Ukraine will pay 20 percent less than the European price for this year. This means a substantial increase for Ukraine in the first quarter but the price could fall signifi­cantly later in the year as gas prices are expected to drop. 
"The negotiations were difficult but we reached an agreement that will allow for a contract to be signed," Tymoshenko said, standing by Putin's side. 
Ukraine's Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko said natural gas supplies would resume once the two countries' gas compa­nies sign a contract. It was not clear how soon this would happen. But Russia's Gazprom and Ukraine's Naftogaz, both state controlled, were told to prepare the docu­mfmts by Monday, she said. 




THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
Corporate America sells Obanla's message 
As inauguration draws closer, companies manufacture Obama-themed goods 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The 
guys hawking Barack 
Obama T-shirts and trinkets 
on the corners of downtown 
Washington have some new 
competition in the selling 
frenzy building up to the 
president-elect's inaugura­
tion Tuesday -Corporate 
America. 
Companies ranging from 
global giants like soda and 
snacks maker PepsiCo to a 
local grocery chain offering 
cakes with Obama's face in 
icing arc jumping on the 
Obama commercial wave. 
Others. like the Swedish 
home store Ikea, are hoping 
consumers take Obama's 
mantra of "change" to heart 
so much that they go out 
and buy furniture to mark 
the change in the White 
House. 
It is relatively rare for 
corporations leery of alien­
ating consumers with any 
whiff of politics to associate 
themselves with a political 
figure, according to market­
ing experts. But at a time 
when many Americans have 
snapped their wallets shut 
during a grinding recession, 
the groundswell of populari­
ty that Obama has generat­
ed with his upbeat cam­
paign themes, along with 
the symbolism he brings as 
the nation's first black pres­
ident, are likely too good for 
many battered retailers to 
pass up. 
"This occasion is more usual FBI hats and Tribune are also planning paign slogan. Seattle soda 
exciting than most presi­Washington T-shirts well afternoon extras on company Jones Soda is sell­
dential inaugurations," said before his election Nov. 4. Tuesday. ing a new flavor of orange 
Noel Hankin, senior vice But the marketing potential The television shopping cola it calls "Orange You 
president for multicultural around him became clear channel QVC is planning Glad for Change." Six packs 
relations for Hennessy, the next day, when people special live broadcasts from of the bottles that have 
which is selling a limited eager to own keepsakes of Washington, which will Obama's face on the label 
edition bottle of cognac with the historic event bought include parts of the inaugu­cost $14.99. Mapmaker 
the number "44" on it to out newspapers nationwide. ration, parade and an inau­Rand McNally is offering a 
mark Obama's spot in the Many papers plan to print gural ball later that night. It "fabMAP" cloth map of the 
line of presidents. "We think extra copies Tuesday to cap­is also selling Obama col­parade route on one side 
this is an appropriate way . italize again on the demand lectibles that range from and a beaming Obama 
to celebrate and honor for all things Obama. The Obama coins to baseballs above the Capitol on the 
him." hometown Washington Post painted with the Democratic other. 
Obama's campaign and plans four separate editions donkey or Republican ele­Other companies, espe­
election touched off a mar­on Tuesday and Wednesday phant. cially those that appeal to 
keting blitz unparalleled by . along with an afternoon Ice cream maker Ben and the younger consumers that 
any recent presidents. extra on Inauguration Day. Jerry's made "Yes Pecan!" supported Obama in droves, 
Street vendors in the Newspapers in San ic-e cream studded with are piggybacking on 
nation's capital were selling Francisco, St. Louis and pecans that plays on Obama's messages of hope 
Obama items next to the Obama's hometown Chicago Obama's "Yes we can" cam-and change. 

Crew kidnapped near Nigerian coast 
Associated Press Sept. 9. The other hostages were later workers have been kidnapped. The released. · hostages are normally released after a 
NIGERIA -One person was killed In the other incident, unidentified gun­ransom is paid. when assailants kidnapped the crew of men attacked boats near a crude-oil The militants say their deeply impov­an oil-industry vessel in Nigeria's restive loading installation late Saturday, a pri­erished area has not benefited from five southern oil region, a security official vate security official said. He said the decades of oil production and want said Sunday. gunmen had tried to board an oil tanker more federally held oil funds to be sent 
Militants, meanwhile, claimed the but failed and then attacked a smaller to the southern oil states. Nigerian military botched a mission to service vessel and one person was killed. The government acknowledges the rescue two British oil workers held He spoke on condition of anonymity grievances of many in the Niger Delta, hostage for months. due to company prohibitions on dealings but denounces the militants as criminals 
The Movement for the Emancipation with the media. who use the struggle as a cover to make of the Niger Delta, or MEND, said in an Lt. Col. Sagir Musa, a military money by stealing crude oil and selling it e-mail Sunday that the British hostages spokesman, confirmed that attack, say­overseas. were not in a village raided overnight by ing the entire Nigerian crew of one boat Corrupt government officials, however, the military. The group said it separated had been taken hostage. also siphon off and sell oil and many the pair and moved them deeper into MEND said one of its "affiliates" state-level politicians are linked to the 
· the region's vast network of creeks and launched the attack to press the mes­militants and other armed gangs. 
mangrove swamps. sage that the military could not protect Nigeria is Africa's top oil producer, but The military had no comment on any the oil industry. attacks on the industry's infrastructure rescue operation. The militants are behind nearly three have reduced production by almost a 
The British hostages were amQng 27 years of rising violence in the southern quarter. It is routinely ranknd as one of oil workers kidnapped from a vessel on Niger Delta, where over 200 foreign the most corrupt countries in thn world. 
page 8 The Observer .+ CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 19, 2009 
Concert 
continued from page 1 
tages of past president~ and other important figures from our nation's past and part musical extravaganza, with over 30 per­formers. 
"We Are One" paid tribute to past presidents, the military, his wife, Michelle, and his two daughters, Malia and Sasha. He danced and sang along to per­formances by popular artists, including U2, Garth Brooks, Bruce Springsteen and Stevie Wonder. 
Before the concert began at 
2:30 p.m., event stafl' closed off the viewing area near the Lincoln Memorial. Jumbotrons set up around the Washington 
members of the Civil Rights Movement and everyday, work­ing-class Americans, and provided the president-elect a platform to speak to the public about his upcoming term in the White House. 
Both the presi­dent-elect and 
"Only a handful of generations have been asked to confront challenges as serious as the ones we face 
• right now.,, 
Barack Obama president-elect 
Monument and at other loca­tions on the National Mall provided addi­tianal viewing opportunities. 
A sea of those bundled to face the cold remained stand­ing for the two­hour concert, waving American flags and sporting 
Vice President-elect Joe Biden spoke during the concert. 
Obama's short speech near the close of the program offered the audience hopeful words about his presidency, as well as realis­tic expectations for a timeline for the solution of America's current problems. 
"Only a handful of generations have been asked to confront challenges as serious as the ones we face right now," he told the crowd that erupted in cheers when he took the stage. 
"Our nation is at war, our economy is in crisis," Obama 
everything Barack Obama ­readily available from street ven­dors -from winter hats to T­shirts. 
Concert highlights included Brooks' three-song set featuring sing-a-long favorites "American Pie" and "Shout." 
Artists collaborated on certain acts like the high-energy "Higher Ground," performed by Stevie Wonder, Usher and Shakira. 
Speakers, like actors Denzel Washington, Tom Hanks and Jamie Foxx, golf superstar Tiger Woods and Martin Luther King III, quoted famous lines from for-
began, naming America's unem­ployment rate and fiscal uncer­tainties as some of the several challenges he will face in the early days of his presidency. 
"I won't pre­tend that meet­ing any one of these challenges will be easy. It will take more than a month or 
"I won't pretend that meeting any one of these challenges will be easy. It will take more than a month or a year, and it will likely take many., 
Barack Obama president -elect 
mer presidents Franklin Delano Roosevelt, John 
F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan and Abraham Lincoln. 
Patriotic songs "This Land is Your Land," led by Springsteen and Pete Seeger and "America the Beautiful," per­formed by B~yonce, closed 
a year, and it will likely take many. Along the way there will be setbacks and false starts and days that test our resolve as a nation," he said. 
In spite of these problems, Obama remains "as hopeful as ever" that our nation will over­come the challenges that face it and prosper. 
The president-elect sat with 
the program. All program partic­ipants, including members of various choirs. joined the chart­topping artist on stage. 
"We Are One" was broadcast live and free on HBO, with two repeat showings that aired later Sunday evening. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 



Leader 
continued from page 1 
organizing Notre Dame vol­unteers and working out of a College Demoerats office in South Bend. lie galvanized volunteers into knocking on doors and making signs. · 
From the time Obama won the Democratic nomination until Election Day, Howard said he worked every day to help get him elected. 
Howard said he was attracted to Obama's "for­ward-looking vision." 
"He seems to have a way of uniting people and getting people to work together," he said. "The other day he met with conservative journalists from D.C., and that's kind of an interesting thing because AP 

President-elect Barack Obama speaks in front of the Lincoln
he's a democrat. But he's 
Memorial during Sunday's concert. Thousands attended the 
met with both sides on 
event in Washington D.C. 
everything." 
Stevie Wonder's perform­more work to do. It's a col­ance was popular among the lective effort. It's not just crowd he was standing in, one person." Howard said, but the high­Obama delivered a s·hort light of the concert, for him, spee'ch towards the end of 
was Obama's speech to the crowd from t'he steps of the Lincoln Memorial, the same spot where Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his "I Have a D r e a m speech in 1963. 
"I think Dr. King would be 
the concert. On Tuesday, he will again
"/ expect big things for 
speak, only
the inauguration, but 
next time in it's the same kind of front of the Capitol build­
things he's been 
ing as presi­
talking about for the 
dent of the last two years. , United States. "I expect big things for
Spencer Howard 
the inaugura­
senior 
tion, but it's the same kind of things he's 
doing it. If you want to have people follow you, you have to articulate why you are· doing it." 
Howard has no tickets to the inauguration, but he plans to find a spot to watch the swearing-in and the speech among the millions expected to attend the cere­mony.. 
Howard will make the 10­hour drive back to Notre Dame Wednesday morning. His "check engine" light came on during the ride to Washington, but he said the trip was worth it. 
And his work will not be done when Obama is sworn in on Tuesday. 
"It's just the beginning," he said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu ­
really proud of our country," Howard said. "That's not to say that there is no work to be done. President Obama was saying there is still 
been talking about for the last two years," Howard said. "Just making sure everybody understands what he wants to do and why he's 


In celebration of Blessed Father Moreau's Feast Day, the Saint Mary's Office of Special Events presents the world premiere of 

Wayne wants a SMART Board. Ronnie wants harmony. The Coach wants a win.. And Guillaume, the Fighting Gardener, wants the rabbits to stop eating his carrots. 
Enjoy this comic portrayal of life at a fictional Holy Cross high school featuring sophomore Maria Chipman and professors Bill Svelmoe and Michael Kramer. 
Monday, January 19, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

~:. 

AARON STEINERfrhe Observer Clockwise from top left: Supporters gather in front of the Washington Monument Sunday to attend "We Are One," a concert with performers ranging from U2 and Beyonce to Shakira and John Mellencamp. The concert kicked off the three-day celebration leading to President-elect Barack Obama's inauguration Tuesday; The viewing area around the Uncoln Memorial, where the concert took place, was closed off, but event staff set up jumbotrons near the Washington Monument and other places on the National Mall to broadcast the event; A family of Obama supporters show their pride while trying to stay warm in the cold weather by bundling up with blankets and winter coats; A street vendor sells inauguration and Obama-themed souvenirs near the National Mall; Concert-goers wait to catch a glimpse of Obama and vice-president elect Joe Biden, both of whom spoke at the event. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, January 19, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

Thanks, George! A tribute
11M Independent, Daily Newspnp~r Serving Notre D~ and &tint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Merz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara .King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
.The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority ofthe_Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. ' 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Oh, the days are getting longer. Because we passed the winter solstice, I mean. But they're also getting shorter -or there are less of them. Morn specifically: less of them on Pennsylvania Avenue for our dear friend and leader of the free world, George W. Bush. 
As we sit at home and uncom­fortably watch the President hold press conferences intended to shape his legacy, we reflect ourselves upon his adminis­tration, his stead­fastness, his idio­syncrasies and his contributions to our nation. Where would we be without his determination to stick to his guns (pun intended), his heroic defiance of petty laws, his opti­mistic stance on the state of the envi­ronment and his disregard for the non­
.. sensical rules of the English language. So, here's to you, George: a tribute to the last eight years. 
To your concern about individuals. Who could have ever imagined a presi­dent so involved in the lives of people in America that he would authorize wire-tapping of their homes? 
To your financial legacy, and how thoroughly you have steered the gov­ernment to mirror the financial situa­tions of everyday Americans; having your party feign concern about spend­ing when it comes t.o pocket change (think John McCain and the $300 mil­lion to study DNA of bears), while tri­umphantly ignoring any real compila­tion of debt. The National Debt climbed from less than $6 trillion {which it never topped during the '90s), to its 

Jackie Mirandola­Mullen 
Guest Columnist 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

curr-nnt $10.6 trillion during your time in ol'lice. Marvelous, how thoroughly the government's mounting debt mir­rors the same climb that the average American is experiencing! 
To your dedication to strengthening our international ties, or at least our inability to start a war with any major pownr, through this same national debt. Talk about killing two birds with one stone! How could we ever start a war with the mass-polluting, human­rights violating, censoring government of the Hepublic of China when we owe them $681.9 billion, 6.4 percent of our natio)lal debt and nearly one fourth of the 29 percent of our national debt that is owed to countries other than America? 
To your go-it-alone defiance. Who needs the UN? Who needs internation­al treaties? We are America, and our strength knows no foreign dependence and has not since our first George's Farewell Address. (Note to Reader: Please refrain from rereading the pre­vious paragraph.) 
To your intolerance of excess. Why should we fund Medicare or Medicaid when we can fund people who are going to take that money and establish more funds? The Deficit Heduction Act of 2005 might not have been popular, but it saved some of that pocket change instead of helping out people that aren't making enough to con­tribute to your political campaigns. 
To your innovative stance on climate change, from withdrawing from the Kyoto protocol in 2001, to hushing top NASA scientists and other governmen­tal agencies in their reports on increasing C02 levels and the negative effects of climate change, to never attending a major environmental con­ference, despite substantial interna­tional pressure. 
To your dedication to energy inde­pendence, through allowing mountain­top removal mining strategies in the Appalachians that irreversibly destroy ecosystems and water supplies, allow­ing drilling in Alaska's Anwar 
. Province, or supporting legalizing off­shore drilling in places that have already been tested and shown t_o lack cost-effective deposits. 
To your respect of the laws and Constitution of this nation, made apparent through your frequent use of the signing statement (161 in eight years in office). As the Chief Executive, you were more important than each individual congressperson and you cer­tainly showed them they can't tell you what to do! 
To your second-in-line executive, and his creativity in his approach to fulfill­ing his office. We'll miss ol' Dick and his innovation that worked outside of the trivial constraints of the Constitution-who'd have thought to strengthen checks and balances by simply creating a new branch of gov­ernment? Genius! We'll see if Joe Biden is able to step into Vice President Cheney's large, muddy foot­prints. 
And most of all, to your consistently entertaining press conferences and speeches, be it your belief that human beings and fish can coexist peacefully, your boldness to ask whether our chil­dren is learning or your misinterpreta­tion of the meaning of the word "accomplished." Mr. President, history will certainly not misunderestimate your legacy. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a junior history and German major who is currently studying abroad in Innsbruck, Austria. Above all. she will miss Vice President Cheney's smile. You can contact her atjmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"See simplicity in the complicated. 
Achieve greatness in little things." 
lao-Tzu 
philosopher 
l11e O~rver (USPS '99l-400fl) i!. publi!hcd Monday ilimugh Friday cxct'pt during exam and V".KaLion periods. A suhscriprion w The Ohservt'r is $100 tOr one: academic ~r; $55 for one sanestc:;r. 
The Observt'f is published at: POHMASTER 024 Soud1 Dining Hall Send addr~ corrections w: Nmrc Dame, IN 46-556-0779 ThcOl»erver Pcriodkal posrage paid at Notr<: Dame P.O.Boxm and additional mailing office~. 02:4 South Dining Hall 
Nmre Dame, JN 46556-0779 
The Omervcr is. a manher ofthe A:.&oc~red Pn:ss. All tqJruduction riglns arc n:~rved-
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Liz Harter Dan Murphy Ashley Charnley Laura Myers Irena Zajickova Doug Farmer 
Graphics Scene 
Andrea Archer Analise Lipari 
Viewpoint 
Lianna 
Brauweiler 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''A watch can only tell us how much 
time it is, how much time has 
passed, or how much time must still 
pass before something will occur. 
These statements are related not to 
time itself but only to its 
measurement or calculation. " 
Medard Boss Swiss psychiatrist 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, January 19, 2009 page 11 
Catholic identity 
Three decades ago, in 1978, Notre Dame proclaimed itself a "Research University." Notre Dame's mission had been the provision of affordable educa­tion, in the Catholic tradition, to undergrads, with 
research and graduate educa·­tion in an impor­tant, complemen­tary role. 
The major uni­versities went heavily into the research business 


in the 1970s as Dr. Charles E. income limits were 
Rice 

raised by Congress 
Right or

on eligibility for federally support­Wrong? ed student loans. As limits were repeatedly raised, the universities repeatedly raised tuition to finance their research programs and buildings. The federal programs were a Big Rock Candy Mountain for the universities. They financed their research enter­prises on the backs of borrowing stu­dents. 
Notre Dame was far from the worst offender but it was in on the action. In 1978-79, undergrad tuition, room and board at Notre Dame was $5,180. In 2008-09, it is $46,680. If it had kept pace with the Consumer Price Index, it would now be $17,042. Notre Dame's financial aid office does excellent work in reducing the debt burden of stu­dents, but the student or parent loan remains the major form of "financial aid." 
In pursuing research repute, our leaders act in what they see as the best interests of Notre Dame. Any criticisms 
here relate to policies and not persons. 
The research fixation, however, has 
unintended consequences. One is the escalation of tuition and student debt. Another is the "building binge" which 
has irrevocably transformed the for­
merly pastoral Notre Dame into a ·crowded, urban-style campus. One wonders where they will put the inevitable parking garage and which lucky donor will get to put his or her 
name on it. Another result is a dimin­ished emphasis on undergrad teaching. As one tenured liberal arts professor 
put it, "You don't really Reed to have 
any impact on the undergraduates" to get promoted. "You just need [to have written] a book." 
One overlooked result is the decrease of Catholic faculty. In the 1970s more . than 80 percent of the Notre Dame fac­ulty identified themselves as Catholic. In 1986 it was 64 percent. Now it is 53 percent and going south. 
17 years ago, Dr. David W. Lutz, then a Notre Dame Ph.D. candidate and now professor of philosophy at the Catholic University of Eastern Africa in Nairobi, identified the "real danger'; to Notre Dame's Catholic identity as those "who believe that Notre Dame can strive for ever-higher standards of academic excellence -and use the same criteria ... by which ... secular universities... are judged to be excellent -without forfeiting [its] Catholic character." First Things, January, 1992. "Elite universi­ties," Dr. Lutz later wrote, "are ranked by ... the research they produce. One ... problem with emphasizing research is that teaching may be de-emphasized but a far more important, though less­noted, danger is that emphasizing research causes Catholicism to be de­emphasized. This is true, not because there is any problem with doing excel­lent Catholic research, but because it is more difficult to publish such research in prestigious journals and with elite university presses than to publish the kind of scholarship respected by secu­lar universities." Observer, Feb. 17, 1993. 

Notre Dame benefits greatly from the presence of faculty who are not Catholic. The Administration, in accord with Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the Apostolic Constitution on Catholic Universities, is trying to increase the Catholic faculty. One obstacle is the insistence, as the Ad Hoc Committee put it, that those efforts "cannot be allowed to compro­mise the University's academic quali­ty." The false dichotomy between faith and academic quality distorts reason as well as faith. It ensures the oblitera­tion of the Catholic character of the University. 
In "The Decline and Fall of the Christian College," in First Things in 1991, Fr. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., said the Christian college "must have a predominance of committed ... commu­nicants of its mother church. This must be regarded, not as an alien considera­tion, but as a professional qualifica­tion .... [A]cademic qualifications can be ... traded off ... but when any one of them is systematically subordinated ... it will shortly disappear from the insti­tution." 
Commitment to the Catholic faith is not a non-rational preference irrele­vant to suitability for the academic life of a Catholic university. John 'Paul II affirmed the "unity between the knowl­edge of reason and the knowledge of faith .... [T]he world and ... history can­not be understood in depth without professing faith in the God who is at work in them." Fides et Ratio, no. 16. He described the "knowledge which is peculiar to faith" as "surpassing the knowledge proper to human reason." No.8. 
In his 2005 Address at Notre Dame, Archbishop J. Michael Miller, of the Congregation for Catholic Education, addressed the relation between faith and research. He quoted John Paul II: "In carrying out its research, a Catholic university can .rely on a supe­rior enlightenment which, without changing the nature of this research, purifies it, orients it, enriches it and uplifts it.. .. This light is not found 'out­side' rational research, as a limitation or an impediment, but rather 'above' it, as its elevation and an expansion of its horizons." Address, April25, 1989. As Miller noted, "the Catholic tradition has unremittingly held that the more we probe the mystery of God with the help of faith, the more we understand reality.... The gift of faith empowers the intellect to act according to its deepest nature." 
Our leaders ought not to subordinate Catholic faith as a professional qualifi­cation for the academic life of Notre Dame. The President has authority to appoint faculty. He could solve the "Catholic" problem by executive veto of appointments. It is a question of will. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. He may be reached at rice.1@nd.edu, ·or at 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 


Student migration highlights problems 

For students in developing countries, the chance to get a better education is on the horizon. But it isn't necessarily because of domestic improvements. 
Since 2000, the number of students studying outside of their home countries 
Editorial Board 

has risen 50 percent, and further expan­
Indiana

sion is on the way. 
University
At least part of this 
Indiana Daily 

is due to a heavy 
Student

focus on improve­ment in countries such as China, whose university system was temporarily closed in 1966 during an abortive reform. Though they reopened in later years, China still struggles to find places for its students, and many choose to study over­seas. 
But the ease of studying in foreign coun­tries doesn'tjust benefit those in the devel­oping world. Study abroad is an increas­ingly popular choice at many American universities. Educators say that spending time overseas produces "citizens of the world" and gives Americans a better understanding of world culture. 
However, the news isn't all good. Many worry that the ability to study overseasfor those in impoverished countries means that they will never want to return. When China sent students to study abroad in 1978, only 25 percent of them ended up returning. That's called "brain drain," a condition that occurs when a country loses its most intelligent and able workers to better conditions in a foreign country. Though globalization is often a sign of progress in countries working to modern­ize, this is one facet of globalization that could in fact retard the intellectual progress of the countries it benefits. But the system is still being worked out. 
In Australia, for example, two thirds of foreign students plan to stay on after they study, according to Australian Education International. That might be good news for Australia, but there are also worries that having these foreign students stay will lessen the seriousness of its academic image, and be taken simply as a means for permanent residence. The countries send­ing students who may choose never to come back are also, understandably, wor­ried. 
Most experts agree, however, tliat there's no point in keeping students penned up in countries where there are no opportuni­ties. The hope for many government offi­cials is that, when their countries modern­ize, students who left to study abroad and never came home will be lured back. 
Educational migration models many of the challenges our world will face for the rest of the century. 
The entire world will be forced to address issues such as brain draining from impoverished areas while also providing for individuals to realize their own poten­tial by accessing the best educational opportunities available. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 15 edition ofThe Indiana Daily Student, the daily paper ofIndiana University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
-





THE OBSERVER 



C·ENE
page 12 
Monday, January 19, 2009 

RYANRAFFIN Scene Writer 
10. Dance Club Massacre: Circle of Death 
Though not easy listening by any means, the Chicago metal quintet deliver a sophomore album that is fast, hard and filled with off-kilter humor. 
Their 2006 debut showed promise, but also featured clunky synthesizer riffs and was occa­sionally derivative. "Circle of Death" refines their sound by playing at a breakneck pace, incorporating subtle synths and maintaining a light-hearted lyrical viewpoint. 
9. The Bronx: The Bronx 
After being dropped by Island Records, the L.A.-based hard rockers responded with this album-length ode to independ­ence. 
Opener "Knifeman" digs at their former label, saying, "This isn't music, it's a pyramid scheme," while "Young Bloods" shouts out rebels and iconoclasts every­where. 
On this album, The Bronx show punk is more a mindset than a sound. 
8. The Last Shadow Puppets: The Age of the Understatement 
The side project of Arctic Monkeys frontman Alex Turner, along with Miles Kane of the Rascals, treads no new ground, but is a loving nod to classic Britrock. 
With an orchestra backing them, the duo make sweeping gestures about girls and, well, that's about it. Singular lyrical focus aside, the music sounds epic, like the score to an old spy movie. 
7. These New Puritans: Beat Pyramid 
The British group incorporate electronics and hip-hop beats into their dense post-punk debut, con­juring up images of paranoia ripe for these media-obsessed, ever­connected times. 
If you can get beypnd the occa­sional· pretentiousness, there is a rewarding core to the music that insists on being both pop and pro­gressive. 
Songs like "Elvis" and "MKK3" are catchy while being unlike anything else released in 2008. 
6. Cat Power: Jukebox 

On her second covers album, Chan Marshall delivers the per­fect late night soundtraek. With her breathy vocals and piano accompaniment, ·songs like "Hamblin' (Wo) man" and "Blue" become her own. The real heart­breaker is the single original song, "Song to Bobby," a fan's ode to Bob Dylan. 
5. F**ked Up: The Chemistry of Common Ute 
This Toronto band's name is the least provocative thing about them. Instead, their extremely forward-thinking brand of punk roek is their most compelling fea­ture. Incorporating atmospherics, extensive overdubs and intricate song structures into their second full-length album, the group sue­ceeds by questioning what punk music should and can be. 
4. United Nations: United Nations 

Controversial for: their album art and the questionable legality of their promotional tactics ­apparently another organization uses the United Nations name ­the group serves up an uncom­promising vision of punk rock as a nihilistic vehide for social ehange. The 11-song album whizzes by in a frantic 25 minutes, with the all­star cast of the band playing harder and faster than ever before. 
3. The Hold Steady: Stay Positive 
Four albums in, the Brooklyn rock group show no signs of let­ting up. With lyrics eentered on religion, aging and murder, this is their most expansive effort yet. lneorporating instrument<> like the harpsichord while staying true to their stripped-down roots seems like an impossible task, yet in 44 minutes the album never loses focus. Almost perfectly paced, with very little filler, Stay Positive eontinues the Hold Steady's tradi­tion of exeellenee. 
2. Vampire Weekend: Vampire Weekend 
Vampire Weekend could easily have been crushed by the weight of expectation for their debut. Instead, they turned out a pop album that never fails to have hooks, while displaying influenees ranging from classical to Afropop. Most promising is the exuberance and optimism of the record, where the lyrics seem to turn away eynieism in all its forms. A light reeord that is neither forget­table nor ignorable. 
1. The Gaslight Anthem: The '59 Sound 
In a year with so much genre­experimentation, why is a straightforward rock and roll album the year's best? Becau~e no one has made rock music this good in years. Passionate as can ­be, the New Jersey group ean sing about all the old cliches -cars, old movies, Tom Petty -without seeming contrived for a second. "The '59 Sound" is a record that feels instantly worn-in. It would have sounded just as great 20 years ago, and it's hard to imag­ine it won't sound fantastic a decade or two into the future. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraj]in@nd. edu 


image courtesy of photobucket.com Cat Power's album of covers, "Jukebox," was well-received in 2008. Check out "Song to Bobby," an ode to Bob Dylan. 
Shiny Toy Guns released "Season of Poison" electromca, metal and pop on their sophomore album. 
STEPHANIE DePREZ Assistant Scene Editor 

Flight of ~he Concords: Flight of the Concords 
The third most popular come­dy-folk group from New Zealand came out of nowhere with a release of pure genre-jumping pleasure. Hanging from Pet Shop Boys-style 80's nlectronica to acoustic funk to rap-core, Bret and Jemaine managed to wax ironic about everything from their duty to please women, to the daily problem homeless people face of being stabbed with utensils, to the inevitable robot take-over of the world. 
Coldplay: Viva La Vida 

All bow and acknowledge this year's Critical Album Beast. The world was expecting lin!1Vorks, and instead we got explosions. It really is a very good album, and the band must have thought so, too, because "Vida" was r.e­released with different cuts and extra tracks as a two-disc col­lector's set. 
Dido: Safe Trip Home 

This British chanteuse man­aged to stay within her lines so as n6t to displease loyal follow­ers, but still stretch enough that she's not repeating herself. Though not particularly touted across the covers of' magazines, this album is full of delightful gems that make for perfect homework music, especially when snowbound. 
Shiny Toy Guns: Season of Poison 

STG's impossible blend of electronica, pop, metal, and male and female voices contin­ues to astound. Their sopho­more release took the band to darker, heavier levels while still staying "pop" -enough to dance to. Imagine Kelly Clarkson going Goth. It's really quite lovely. 
Fleet Foxes: Fleet Foxes 
They stepped out of the 60's and right into indie-pop. 
Unabashedly choral-based, their sweet, lilting melodies give the album the air of a bookend for the indie movement and are different enough to feel unique. 
Kings of Leon: Only By the Night 
These guys were last year's Cool New Breakout British Jodie Band. 
Something about their sound is a little oil", familiar but not too much, and the kind of musie that grows. The first time through it's all right, but by the third time through, you're addicted. 
Vampire Weekend: Vampire Weekend 
Is Columbia University's law school its biggest appeal? No way. It's these guys, four collar­popping rock stars who went from their dorm to the cover of Spin in 10 seconds flat. The album was something of a nash in the pan last January, but still quality enough to warrant these kids sticking around. 
Kate Nash: Made of Bricks 
Addicting, lyrical, witty, sweet and danceable. Lily Allen played big sis to Nash and ended up in the back seat as Nash took over the title of Edgy British Song Queen. Nothing really beats blasting English white-girl R&B with a cockney accent from your car. 
Death Cab For Cutie: Narrow Stairs 
Not as brilliant as their first album, "Plans," this album still hit all the right spots as the per­feet musical setting of what is undeniably poetry. If Shubert were alive today, he would be listening to Death Cab. 
Though some songs feel a bit out of place, the now as a whole works, and "Narrow Stairs" is a most rewarding experience when heard straight through. 
The Police: Certifiable: Live in Buenos Aires 
This two-disc record of their world tour. is all-out perfection. Their songs are still magnifi­cent, but thirty years of letting these artists simmer and ripen has afl"orded a whole new expe­rience. Sting is always at his best when with Andy Summers and Stuart Copeland. 
Listening to these three musi­cians, who have each gone and done different things for the last three decades, finally come back together to revisit the music that launched them is life aflirming. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd. edu 

I 
I THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, January 19, 2009 
page 13 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
. ­


RADIO FREE IRISH: WVFI LOOKS BACK ON THE BEST OF 2008 
WRITTEN BY GREG DUTCHER, LISA FLO RAN, BROOKE HEALY, CHRIS LANUS AND TERESA MCGEENEY 
Let the learned listeners at  work and classic acoustic sounds  album actually came out in 2007,  ture the soul of the 60s with a  Youngster...  
WVFI guide you through their  will leave you stunned, and the  but anyone who has listened to  modern twist.  Another buzz band from the  
choices for the top releases of  rich melodies and haunted lyrics  "For Emma, Forever Ago" knows  blogging world, this young group  
2008. Listeners can check out the  will keep you coming back for  better than to argue such petty  Cut Copy: In Ghost Colours  from Wales captured the humor,  
station at AM 640.  more.  points. Put into wide release in  Of all the dance-rock 80s revival  energy and emotion surrounding  
2008, Bon Iver delivered a heart­ albums of this year, "In Ghost  the hype and turned it into an  
Vampire Weekend: Vampire  The Dodos: Visiter  wrenching record of northern  Colours" rose to the top of the  unassuming and incredibly fun  
Weekend  Continuing in a similar psych­ winter nights spent with a fire, a  pile. Instead of relying on irony or  record.  
Vampire Weekend came out of  folk/freak-folk vein as such bands  guitar, laments, and maybe even a  self-awareness, Cut Copy focuses  It's a witty and smart album,  
nowhere to release this glorious  as  Animal  Collective  or  little flannel.  on writing good music in the vein  whose upbeat handclaps, sloppy  
album about roofs, college, gram­ Akron/Family, the Dodos are com­ Quiet, but far from boring,  ofDepeche Mode and New Order.  guitars, glockenspiels, and seven  
mar,  and  Cape-Cod.  Recent  prised of only two members - romantic, but never nauseating,  The record's strength lies in its  person sing-alongs balance out  
Columbia grads, these guys make  Meric Long (guitar/vocals) and  the album is  a heartbreaking  heartfelt delivery, good production  the dark lyrical content.  
undeniably fun, catchy music. A  Logan Kroebler (drums) -who  beauty.  ·  values, and habit of taking the  
mix of afro-pop, chamber pop and  also relish in their country blues  best from its influences: synth-pop  The.views expressed in this  
new ~ave,  Vampire Weekend  and African influences. Long's  Fennesz: Black Sea  and disco, for the most part. Great  column are those ofthe authors  
have constructed an album with a  voice croons and yelps in ways  At its core, you could call this  stuff.  and not necessarily those ofThe  
definitive sound all their own.  that will leave you humming or  album guitar music modified with  Observer.  
whistling these tunes long after  computers ­but it's actually much  Los Campesinos: Hold on Now,  Contact WVFI at wvji@nd.edu  
Flying Lotus: Los Angeles  the album ends.  more than that.  Combining  
Flying Lotus takes the glitzy,  At times delicately beautiful and  static, noise, drones, and, of  
superficial ethos of·Los Angeles  at others vigorously and intensely  course, guitar, Fennesz cre­ 
and somehow makes instrumen­ driving, the Dodos have created  ates eight evocative songs,  
tal hip-hop out of it.  Fractured,  an album featuring a number of  filled with grimy, bleak har­ 
but somehow smooth; gritty, while  twists  and  turns  that  make  monies and overtones that  
still maintaining a slick feel. The  "Visiter" a must-listen.  reveal  themselves  after  
songs show an obvious talent for  repeated listens. Brilliantly  
both production and songwriting  TV On The Radio: Dear Science  constructed, wonderfully  
-experimental enough for head­ While definitely distinct from  arranged, masterfully done.  
phone  listening,  while  still  their  other  albums,  "Dear  
remaining in the realm of hip hop.  Science" is nonetheless excellent  Raphael Saadiq: The Way I  
and cohesive. TV On The Radio is  See It  
Fleet Foxes: Fleet Foxes  great at mixing high with low and  Did you hear that?  It's  
Fleet Foxes proves that while  throaty vocals, synthesized beats,  motown, making a sneaky  
genres come and go, classic folk  h~,>rns, and the classic haridclap  comeback.  The  Amy  
will never go out of style. This  from sounds that could be bleak  Winehouses, Duffys, and  
debut album is filled with beauti­ into an epic orchestra. The result  Adeles have helped it along,  
ful instrumentation and har­ is super catchy, danceable, and  but this year's top retrospec­ 
monies. Fleet Foxes evoke sounds  one of the most innovative and  tive prize goes to Haphael  
of generations before without  enjoyable records of the year.  Saadiq. On "The Way I See  
sounding dated, and have created  It," Saadiq hits all the stops:  
1something that will be remem­bered for years to come. Upon first listen, the gorgeous vocal  Bon lver: For Emma, Forever Ago Purists will argue that this  doo-wop beats, a cameo by Stevie Wonder, and charm­ing, cheeky lyrics that cap- image courtesy of pitchforkmedia.com lndie hipsters Fleet Foxes took the music scene by storm in 2008 with their self-titled debut album.  

RANKING THE YEAR'S TOP RocK RELEASES  
knowledge of rock history. Never has  musicians can conjure up in a career.  Kozelek. What else is new?  
JAMES DuBRAY  appropriating from your parents' stored­ The toast of Saint Joe Strummer? Yes,  
Scene Writer  away boxes been so original and worth­ actually.  - 10. Blitzen Trapper: Furr  
A few opening remarks. First, this is  while.  A grower that displays how much the  
only a ranking of rock albums. Thus, for  6. Cat Power: Jukebox  Pacific Northwest has changed. No  
example, Lil Wayne's very good rap out­ 3. MGMT: Oracular Spectacular  Chan Marshall's voice seems to getting  longer producing Nirvana wannabes,  
put is not being considered.  "Shock me like  an  electric eel. Turn  more  beautiful with  age.  Woozing  melodic folk seems to be the drink of  
Second, only studio LPs are eligible.  me on with your electric feel."  through covers, the best song of the  choice. I'll take another, please.  
Thus, Colin Meloy's live solo album and  bunch is hers, the "Song To Bobby."  
the next installment in Dylan's Bootleg  4. Drive By Truckers: Brighter Than  He's her Guthrie, yet she's still not  Honorable Mention:  
-Series are not being considered.  Creation's Dark  Woody's Dylan.  Counting Crows, "Saturday Nights and  
Third, only records originally released  Nineteen songs, and yet you still want  Sunday Mornings," H.E.M., "Accelerate,"  
in 2008 are being consid­ more when it ends.  7. Mike Doughty: Golden Delicious  The  Raconteurs,  "Consolers of the  
ered. Justin Vernon's solo album under the moniker Bon Iver and Radiohead's  An album both haunting and  With this tour of alt-country stylings, Patterson Hood and Mike Cooley more than make  The former head of Soul Coughing delivers a listenable album of fun pop rock. While the lyrics can be lacking at  Lonely," and "Cardinology."  Ryan  Adams,  
free giveaway are out. 1. My Morning Jacket: Evil Urges  gorgeous, "Fleet Foxes" displays a wide knowledge  up for Jason Isbell's absence. Credit Hood with one of the better lines of the year: "I wish everyday was Saturday  times, the album's melodies rival MGMT's for the best of '08. Maybe local bars will take notice and add a couple tunes to their rotation of  Disappointment: British Sea Power, "Do You Like Rock Music"  
Jim James' love of funk and soul shone through in  ofrock history.  morning/ Two daughters and a wife/ Two daughters and a  overused past hits.  Somewhat annoying, overrated albums:  
this divisive album. Already  beautiful life."  8. Jakob Dylan: Seeing Things  Vampire  Weekend,  "Vampire  
acknowledged as one the country's best  Making  a  sparse  acoustic  album  Weekend" and The Gaslight Anthem,  
live acts, "Evil Urges" put My Morning  5. The Hold Steady: Stay Positive  appeared to be a gigantic undertaking  "The '59 Sound."  
Jacket in good company.  Much like last year's best album, "The  for this blue eyed father from California.  
Who's the best American rock band­ Boxer," this album gets better with every  Yet, Dylan quietly delivered one of the  Year's worst album by a band that  
Wilco or My Morning Jack~t? It doesn't  listen. Craig Finn's lyrics are as disturb- gems of the year. Perfect for Sunday  wishes it was U2:  
matter; just be thankful we have both.  ing as they are fun.  •·  mornings, Rick Rubin helped craft this  Coldplay, "Viva La Vida."  
Posing as a twenty-first century beat,  record dealing with beauty and evil.  

2. Fleet Foxes: Fleet Foxes 
The debut from the bearded early 20­year-old nouveau hippies is a stunning one. An album both haunting and gor­geous, "Fleet Foxes" displays a wide the band roars through· eleven songs chock-full of stories about barrooms scandals and rich girl criminals. The three bonus tracks display..that Finn has more hits in his catalogue than most 
Dylan shows that the space between the t\YO may be much smaller than we think. 
9. Sun Kil Moon: April 
Another great album from Mark 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact James DuBray at jdubray@nd. edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 19, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Northwestern shocks No. 18 Minnesota in Evanston 
~ 

No. 16 A_rizona state defeats No. 9 UCLA in overtime; No. 23 Villanova crushes St. Johns after a week off 
more to cheer.
Associated Press 
Kevin Coble (20 points) con­
EVANSTON, Ill. -Craig verted a three-point play Moore slammed the ball in moments later, pumping his fist frustration and yelled at a as his layup went through the teammate as they headed to a net. He hit the free throw, and timeout, his frustration boiling after several more misses by over in the early going. Minnesota, Moore made anoth­
By the end, he was all smiles. er 3 and fed Coble for a reverse 
Moore hit six 3-pointers and layup after a steal to cap the finished with 22 points to lead run with 10:54 left. Northwestern over No. 18 Damian Johnson finally con­Minnesota 7 4-65 Sunday for its verted a layup for Minnesota, first win against a ranked but back-to-hack layups by opponent in nearly three years. Ivan Peljusic bumped 
"We knew we were capable," Northwestern's lead to 51-39 Moore said. "We just had to fin­midway through the half. ish it." Minnesota never challenged 
Long a Big Ten doormat, the after that. Wildcats (9-6, 1-4) have hinted "Northwestern is a hard team that better days are coming. to come back from because of Well, this certainly was one. their (Princeton) offense," 
The Wildcats had not beaten Westbrook said. "They slow a Top 25 team since a three­down the tempo and they use point victory over then-No. 18 the game clock. If you get down Iowa on Feb. 8, 2006. They had big against them, it's virtually dropped 26 of 27 Big Ten regu­impossible to come back." lar-season games, including The Wildcats had already their first four this season after shown they could hang with going 1-17 in the conference a the best teams in the confer­year ago. ence before this game. They 

Yet, there they were, going just had nothing to show for it. on a 16-0 run early in the sec­They failed to protect leads in ond half to grab a 10-point lead losses to Penn State and then­and knocking off a Minnesota No. 10 Michigan State, but the team that had done nothing but toughest loss came against No. exceed expectations in coach 19 Purdue on Thursday night, Tubby Smith's second season. when they blew a 14-point brought it up too slowly. Not Villanova 76, St. John's 57 er, sparking a 13-4 Villanova The Golden Gophers' only other lead. getting a shot off, that's really After a week off after a tough run for 57-40 advantage. After loss was to Michigan State. This time, there were no col­bad." loss, No. 23 Villanova was anx­hitting on 10 consecutive shots, 
So what happened Sunday? lapses. Just plenty of smiles. Collison blamed mental mis­ious to play. the Villanova lead reached 64­
The Gophers (16-2, 4-2) sim­takes and said, ''I'll take full And the Wildcats showed it 48 with 7:31 to play. ply stumbled -particularly in Arizona State 61, UCLA 58 responsibility for that." Sunday, jumping out to a big ''I'll give Villanova a lot of the second half-after win­Arizona State outfoxed UCLA The Sun Devils (15-3, 4-2 lead and cruising to a victory credit, they're a real good bas­ning at Wisconsin for the first at its own defensive game. Pac-1 0) split on their trip to Los over St. John's. ketball team," said St. John's time in nearly 15 years on Using a matchup zone that Angeles, having lost 61-49 at Donte Cunningham scored 17 coach Norm Roberts. "They did Thursday. Northwestern also forced the ninth-ranked Bruins Southern California on points, Dwayne Anderson had a a good job pressing us and get­switched its defense, going into a 13-minute stretch over Thursday night, when Harden season-high 14 and Antonio ting us out of our offense. We from a matchup zone to a 1-3-the end of regulation and start was held to a season-low four Pena added 12 for the Wildcats let them get off to such a good 1, in the second half. of overtime where they man­points on 0-for-8 shooting. (14-3, 2-2 Big East), who set a start and that didn't help." 
Lawrence Westbrook scored aged one field goal, the 16th­"We wanted to come back, new team mark with their 24th Despite the loss, the Red 18 after pouring in 29 against ranked Sun Devils came away recover and play our butts off," straight home-court victory at Storm still holds a 59-43 edge the Badgers and Devoe with a victory Saturday. Harden said. the Pavilion. over Villanova, its most fre­Johnson added 14, but 19 James Harden scored 24 Shipp scored 16 points and D.J. Kennedy had 18 points quent opponent, in the all-time turnovers and poor shooting in points and Jeff Pendergraph Collison added 14 for the and Quincy Roberts 14 for St. series. the second half (34.5 percent) added 18 to help Arizona State Bruins (14-3, 4-1), who had John's (10-7, 1-4), which lost Villanova started the game did in the Gophers. rally from an 11-point second­their 15-game home winning for the sixth time in seven with a 19-3 run and led 44-27 
Smith called it an "attention­half deficit and snap UCLA's 10-streak end. They had beaten games and fifth in a row to at the break. Villanova hit on 17 getter" for his team, and it was game winning streak. the Sun Devils eight straight Villanova·. of 30 shots in the half while the 1 for Northwestern, too. "Coach was in our head say­games. "We were all dying to play a Red Storm committed a dozen 
"They're going to win a lot of ing if we were going to win, it "ILhurts to lose this one," game," said coach Jay Wright, turnovers leading to 19 Wildcat games, Northwestern," Smith was going t~ be on the defen­. Shipp said. whose team last played Jan. 10 points. said. sive end," Harden said. "Guys Arizona State coach Herb in a one-point loss to Louisville. "I think we played hard and 
Minnesota led 34-31 at half­just locked in and came up with Sendek earned his first win "We watched film of Louisville competed most of the game," time and Westbrook's 3-pointer some big stops." over UCLA in five tries. The and saw what mistakes we Wright said. "At times, we were made it a six-point game less The biggest one came on Sun Devils beat a top 10 team made. We tried to get the sen­trying to be too perfect." than two minutes into the sec­UCLA's final possession of the on the road for the first time iors to help us out with the Villanova was not at its usual ond. From there? The Golden game, when the Bruins failed to since Jan. 31, 1998, against young guys." crispness, committing 16 Gophers fell apart. get a shot off. Stanford. "It was a long time to rest," turnovers, but gave a great 
They missed 12 of their first They desperately passed the "We have so much respect for Cunningham said. "We talked to shooting performance, hitting 13 shots in the half and ball among Darren Collison, UCLA's defense. Instead of two the young guys about not get­on 30 of 51 shots (58.8 per­watched as Northwestern Michael Roll and Josh Shipp for points, you feel like you should ting down and on what has to cent), its top shooting percent­scored 16 straight to take a 4 7-a 3-point attempt that never get seven because they're so get done as the season pro­age of the season. The Wildcats 37 lead. Moore hit three 3-happened before the final good on defense," Sendek said. gresses." also had 18 assists in the game pointers during that stretch, buzzer. "Our guys won it by playing St. John's, which trailed by as but missed seven of 18 free starting it with one and putting "I told Darren that we want­good defense. It wasn't that we many as 19 points in the first throws. the Wildcats ahead 39-37 with ed to go all the way to the bas­outscored them. It's a game half, scored the first nine points St. John's, on the other hand, another one. ket," Bruins coach Ben that could have gone either of the second half, six of them was 17-for-44 (38.6 percent) 
That drew a loud roar from Howland said. "We didn't need way. We were lucky, we know by Justin Burrell, to trail by 44-and turned the ball over 19 
,.:.... 
the crmyd, but there was plenty to go for a 3-pointer, but we that." 36. Anderson then hit a 3-point-times. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per· character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Babysitter wanted for 2 young children of ND faculty near ND Mondays &/or 
Wednesdays. Good pay. Please email kbrantma@nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes close to campus. 
Safe Neighborhood, cathedral ceil­ings, fireplace, 2 car garage, 10x20 decks. Call 574-232-4527 or 269­683·5038. From $1,700/mo Why do you build me up {Build me up) Buttercup baby just to let me down {Let me down) And mess me around 
And then worst of all {Worst of all) You never call baby When you say you will (Say you will) But I love you still 
I need you {I need you) More than anyone darlin' You know that I have From the start So build me up {Build me up) Buttercup Don't break my heart 

I'll be over at ten You tell me time and again 
.,

But you're late I wait around and then 
I went to the door I can~ take any more It's not you You let me down ag9in Baby Baby Try to find a little time And I'll make you happy I'll be home I'll be waiting beside the phone Waiting for you. 
Why do you build me up (Build me up) Buttercup baby just to Let me down {let me down) And mess me around 
And then worst of all {worst of all) you never call, baby 
When you say you will {say you will) But I love you still I need you {I need you) More than anything, darlin' You know that I have from the start So build me up {Build me up) Buttercup Don't break my heart 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, January 19, 2009 CoMPILED .FROM THE 0BsERVER:s WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
Women's Basketball APTop 25 
team points record 
1 Connecticut (45) 1125 15-D 2 North Carolina 1080 16-0 3 Oklahoma 1003 12-2 4 Duke 946 13-1 5 Baylor 921 13-1 6 Auburn 858 17-0 7 Louisville 827 16-1 8 Texas A&M 819 13·1 9 Stanford 176 13·3 10 NOTRE DAME 758 14-1 11 California 647 13-2 12 Maryland 630 13-2 13 Tennessee 626 12-3 14 Virginia 512 14-2 15 Ohio State 501 13-2 16 Texas 498 12-3 17 Kansas State 410 14-0 18 Vanderbilt 330 13-4 19 florida 329 15-2 20 Iowa State 208 13,2 21 Maris! t57 15-1 22 Oklahoma State 139 11·3 23 Rutgers 115 8-5 24 Georgia Tech 86 12-3 25 New Mexico 62 13-2 
Women's Basketball Big East Standings, 
team record overall 
1 louisville 5·0 18·1 2 Connecticut 4-0 17-fJ 3 NOTRE OAME 4·1 15·2 4 Cincinnati 3·1 134 5 Pittsburgh 2·2 12-4 6 Georgetown 2·2 12·5 7 Rutgers 2·2 10-5 8 Marquette 2·2 11·7 9 Villanova 2·2 10-7 10 Seton Hall 2·3 13-4 11 DePaul 2·3 14-5 12 Syracuse 2·3 13·5 13 St. John's 1·3 13-4 14 Providence 1·3 7·10 15 USF 1·4 14~5 16 West Virginia 0·4 1Hi 
Big East Conference Men's Basketball Standings 
team record overall 
1 Marquette 5·0 16·2 2 louisville 4·0 13-3 3 Connecticut 5-1 16-1 4 Syracuse 5-1 17-2 5 Pittsburgh 4·1 16-1 6 Georgetown 3·2 12·4 7 Providence 3·2 11-6 8 NOTRE DAME 3-3 12-5 g Villanova 2·2 14-3 10 West Virginia 2·2 13-4 11 Cincinnati 2-3 12-6 12 St. John's 1-4 10-7 13 USF 1-4 6·11 14 Seton Hall 0-5 9-8 15 Rutgers 0·5 9·9 16 DePaul 0·5 8·10 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Syracuse at Pittsburgh 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Connecticut at North Carolina 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-Cole Hamels has about every­thing an ace pitcher could want after only three years in the major leagues. 
The Phillies left-bander was the MVP of the World Series, he's earned a rep­utation as a big-game pitcher, he's been an All­Star and he's married to a former Playboy playmate. 
Now, Hamels has a hefty three-year, $20.5 million contract to go with the championship he's still savoring. 
While the Phillies par­tied with a parade, Hamels planned a low-key celebration. 

''I'm not going to Vegas any time soon," Hamels said on Sunday. 
He could afford the trip and even a seat at the high-rollers table. 
Hamels still has one goal ahead of him: He wants to show Philadelphia his history of injures are really behind him. ~ 
"It's not something I've necessarily been blessed with over the past couple of years, but I think this is where I've finally I've been able to get over that hump," Hamels said. "Knowing I can go through a full season and what it's like on my body, physically and mentally, I think that challenge is over." 
The deal avoids an arbi­tration hearing and keeps the 25-year-old Hamels in Philadelphia through the 2011 season. Hamels went 4-0 in the postseason with a 1.80 ERA as the Philhes claimed their first champi­onship since 1980. He won the first game in three playoff series and took the MVP award in the NL championship series against the Dodgers. 
Hamels, who lives in Philadelphia year round, said he still gets goose­bumps every time he watches the World Series highlights video and believes the roster is still good enough to contend for years. 
"If I'm able to go out there and repeat, I think it's just going to make it a reaily nice, sweet time for this baseball city," Ilamels said. 
He was plagued . by' injuries in his minor­league career and spent parts of the 2006 and 2007 season on the dis­abled list. This year, Hamels went 14-10 with two shutouts a 3.09 ERA during the regular season He made 33 starts and pitched a career-high 227 1-3 innings, finishing ~ith 196 strikeouts and 53 walks. 
IN BRIEF Cubs trade centerfielder 
Pie to Orioles for pitchers 
BALTIMQRE -The Chicago Cubs finally lost patience with former prized prospect Felix Pie, trading the outfielder to the Baltimore Orioles on Sunday for left-bander Garrett Olson and minor league pitcher Henry Williamson. 
The 23-year-old Pie hit .241 in 43 games with the Cubs last season after batting .287 in 85 games with Triple-A Iowa. He was chosen the top player in Chicago's minor league system by Baseball America in 2007 and 2006, and appeared in the Major League Futures Games for the World team from 2003 through 2Q,05. 
Pie has a .299 career batting average in 628 minor league games. He was signed by the ·Cubs as an undrafted free agent in 2001 and made his major league debut in April2007. 
Olson went 9-10 with a 6.65 ERA in 26 starts with Baltimore in 2008. 

American Davis captures
overall speedskating title 
MOSCOW -Shani Davis of the United States set a track record to win the 1,000-meters and earn the overall title at the sprint speedskating world championships. 
Wang Beixing of China won her first overall sprint title. 
Davis won in 1 minute, 8.66 sec­onds, with Denny Morrison of Canada in second Yevgeny Lalenkov of Russia in third. Defending champion and overnight leader Lee Kyou-hyuk of South Korea fell with 100 meters left. 
The titles were decided by two 500­meter and two 1,000-meter races over the weekend. 
"I knew after yesterday, I had a lot of work to do," said Davis, who was fourth in the overall standings after two races Saturday. "But I stayed pos­itive and every race I just approached like it was my last race." 
Keiichiro Nagashima of Japan won the 500 in a track-record 34.91 sec­onds, while Davis was sixth. 
Stoudemire leads Suns to 
first win in three games 
TORONTO -Still seething from an overtime defeat in Denver and a narrow home loss to Minnesota, Phoenix Suns forward Amare Stoudemire pegged Sunday's game in Toronto as a must-win. And with the Raptors charging in the fourth quarter, Stoudemire took over. 
Stoudemire scored 31 points, Steve Nash had a season-high 18 assists and the Suns beat Toronto 117-113 on Sunday afternoon, their ninth consecutiv.e victory over the struggling Raptors. 
"After a tough loss to Minnesota, it felt like this was a win w.e defi­nitely needed," Stoudemire said. 
Jason Richardson added 17 points, Shaquille O'Neal and Matt Barnes each had 16 and Leandro Barbosa scored 14 for Phoenix. 
Stoudemire scored 11 points in the fourth as the Suns won the opener of a six-game road trip. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 19, 2009 Monday, January 19, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Tough singles 111atches determine loss for Irish 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writer 
The Irish dropped their spring opener Friday against Pepperdine in a 4-3 decision that was decided by a trio of three-set singles matches. 
The Irish were able to gain the doubles point when sophomore Stephen Havens and freshmen Casey Watt 
"Our freshmen are

teamed up to a broken right defeat Stuart very talented this wrist, but has Keplar and Alex quickly made up
year.

Llompart. for lost time." Freshman Niall Watt was not 
Bobby Bayliss 

Fitzgerald and able to pull out his sophomore Matt Irish Coach three set singles 
tough three set match Helgeson fell to Beidas 6-4, 1-6, 6-2. 
Keeton was able to secure his first victory in an Irish uniform after missing the fall season with a broken wrist defeating Turner 7-6, 6-1 to knot the score at two a piece. 
"The biggest surprise from our pre-season two-a-day practice routine has been Sam Keeton," Bayliss said. "He missed the entire fall semester with 

Johnson also teamed up to earn a doubles victory at No. 3, defeating Hugh Clarke and Jensen Turner 8-3. 
"Our freshmen are very talent­ed this year," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Three of them are in the mix to play a lot this year. Casey Watt is a treme.q.dous shot maker, as is Niall Fitzgerald. Sam Keeton has the ability to flat out rip the ball from the backcourt." 
The No. 1 doubles duo of senior Brett Helgeson and sophomore Tyler Davis who are ranked No. 37 in the country fell to the No. 45 doubles team of Omar Altmann and Bassam Beidas 8-4. 
In singles action Stephen Havens was the first Irish man to fall at No. 2 singles dropping his match against Altmann who is ranked 51 in singles. Helgeson was the next singles match to finish. Helgeson is ranked No. 20 and was pitted against No. 122 Beidas. In a 
match falling to Uompart by a final score of 7-5, 4-6, 7-6 (7-4). 
Sophomore Dan Stahl came away with a tough victory over No. 57 Mahmoud Kamel 4-6, 6-4, 6-6 (7-2). Stahl battled back from 5-3, deficit to push the third set to a tie break. 
Davis's match proved to be the deciding factor in the win for Pepperdine. Davis was .matched up with Alejandro Moreno at No. 6 singles. After dropping the first set 6-4, Davis continued to battle and won the second set by the same score to push the mateh to a third. Davis was down 5-6 in the third set but again battled back to push it to a tie break in which he fell 7-5. 
The Irish next travel to VIrginia to take on No. 64 William and Mary, and then No. 5 Virginia next weekend. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Saxer breaks vault record 
Team qualifies over 30 athletes for the Big East Championships 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 

Senior Mary Saxer broke her own Loftus Sports Center pole vault record from three years ago, as Notre Dame competed in the Indoor Opener on Friday. 
Saxer's vault of 4.06 meters just beat her previous mark of 
4.05 meters, which she set as a freshman. 
The team also qualified over thirty athletes for the Big East Championship. 
Irish coach Joe Piane was pleased with his team's per­formance in the meet and the early portion of the season in general. 
"Quite a few men and women have qualified for the Big East Championships and we are in good shape for the remainder of the season," Piane said. 
Sophomore Abby Higgins and junior Molly Sullivan both qualified for the conference tournament in the 1,000-meter race.-·Natalie Johnson also earned a spot in the postsea­son in the 400-meters and sen­ior Alyissa Hasan won the 60­meter hurdles for the Irish. 
Sophomore Kevin Labus won the 800-meter race with a time of 1:53.00 to lead the male qualifiers. He was joined by fellows sophomore Justin Schneider who qualified for both the 60-meter hurdles and the pole vault. 
Andrew Kolbeck and broth­ers Kevin and Matt Schipper also qualified in the pole vault. Kevin, a freshman, earned din-

IAN GAVLICKfThe Observer Senior Mary Saxer runs in preparation for her record-setting vault Friday at Notre Dame's Indoor Opener. 
ner table bragging rights by topping his brother to win the event with a 4.95 meter leap. Matt, a junior, finished in sec­ond. 
Erick Quick and Greg Davis also won the men's long jump and the weight throw, respec­tively. 
"Hopefully we can continue to qualify men and women and we would love to win the quad meet next weekeno," Piane said. 
The quad meet, the Notre Dame Invitational, is scheduled for Jan. 23 and will include Marquette and the University of Wisconsin. The Big East Championships begin Feb. 21 in New York. The Irish will be looking for leadership from standouts such as senior dis­tance runners Patrick Smyth and Billy Buzaid. On the women's side, senior Anna Weber, who has qualified for the NCAA championships as a thrower, will lead the way. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

Is God a Mathematician? 
Guest lecture by Mario Livio, Ph.D. 7 p.m. Wednesday, January 21,2009 Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library Free and open to the public 

UNIVERSITY ' OF NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Cardinals triumph 
in last race of meet 
formance. Maxwell later set anBy NATHANIEL LEE individual pool record with a 
Sports Writer 
quick 1:02.16 in the 100-yard breaststroke, and pieked up a 
No. 24 Notre Dame once again third win in the 200-yard breast­found themselves on the losing stroke with a time of 2:15.04. end of the deciding final race in a Sophomore Lauren Sylvester close meet Saturday at Louisville's continued her domination of the Wright Natatorium. The No. 21 distance events with wins in the Cardinals nipped the Irish in the 500 and 1,000-yard freestyle 400-yard freestyle relay, nearly races, logging times of 5:07.30 setting a school record in the and 10:04.97, respectively. Fellow 
process.  sophomore Katie  
One week earli­er the Irish lost to then-No. 21  "What we really want to see now are solid  Casey turned in another multi-win performance for  
Northwestern in the final race of the meet, coming up just five points  performances that will lead to success in March.''  the Irish with firsts in the 100 and 200-yard butterfly races in  
shy of a victory.  an  impressive  
"The main goal  Brian Barnes  55.33  and  
is always to get the girls into top  Irish coach  2:01.26, respec­tively.  
form for the post- Casey, Maxwell  

season," Irish coach Brian Barnes and Sylvester also chipped in big said. "What we really want to see wins in the heartbreaker against now are solid performances that Northwestern. will lead to success in March." After this close loss, Notre Dame 
Despite the loss, Notre Dame (3-2) is gearing up to host the swimmers turned in several Shamrock Invitational at the Rolfs impressive individual performanc­Aquatic Center from January 23­es on the way to winning eight of 24. The Invitational is one of tvvo the possible 16 events. meets remaining before the Big Sophomore Samantha Maxwell East Tournament in February. led the 200 Medley Relay team to victory in the opening event, post­Contact Nathaniel Lee at ing a pool-record 1:43.04 per-nlee5@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 19, 2009 
•

w1nter wednesda}:january28 
How to Prepare for the Career Fair 
1. Compose a Resume that Markets Your 
Background and Skills 
• Visit The Career Center Monday-Friday from 1:00 to 4:45 pm for a 15-minute resume review or stop by Resumes on the Run in LaFortune 
2. Prepare, Prepare, Prepare 
• 
Attend a "Prepare for the Career Fair:' workshop 

• 
Determine your objectives for attending 

• 
Review the list of companies attending the fair and position descriptions on Go IRISH 

• 
Visit company websites and review mission statements, annual reports, and products or services 

• 
Develop and refine networking skills 

• 
Develop your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Hello, l'm...(introduce yourself, your year and major, and interest in industry/career field) 

• 
Your company is...(demonstrate knowledge of company) 

• 
I'm interested because...(explain your interest in company) 

• 
I can ...(match your skills with their needs) 




3. At the Fair 
• 
Dress in business attire and bring several copies of your resume in a portfolio 

• 
Review the map of employer booths and take a bag for "giveaways" 

• 
Be proactive by approaching employers 

• 
Speak with both young alums and experienced representatives 

• 
Demonstrate confidence and enthusiasm in delivering your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Ask the representative how to sign up for an interview (i.e. "After reviewing your company information and the position, I am interested in speaking with you further. How can I obtain a slot on your interview schedule at The Career Center?" 

• 
Obtain the representative's business card 


4. Following the Fair 
• 
Send an email thank-you to the recruiters with companies of interest within 3days of the fair 

• 
If you obtain an interview: 

• 
Prepare by researching the company, industry, competitors, and the position description on Go IRISH 

• 
Review The Career Center's Interview Guide and practice sample interview questions 

• 
If you have a web cam, practice interviewing using the online "Interview Stream" at http://careercenter.nd.edu/for­undergrads/resumes-cover-letters-interviews 




Let <AS k£/f, ViSit <AS totJo.jl 

Prepare for Winter Career & Internship Fair Workshops 
A&L Majors: 
Monday, Jan. 19, 8:00pm in 114 Flanner Thursday, Jan. 22, 5:30pm in Montgomery Auditorium 
Business Majors: 
Wednesday, Jan. 21, 5:30pm in 114 F/anner Sunday, Jan. 25, 4:00pm in 114 Flanner 
Engineering Majors: 
Monday, Jan. 19, 5:00pm in 120 DeBartolo 
Scienc~ Majors: 
Thursday, Jan. 22, 7:00pm in 310 Jordan 
Check http://careercenter.nd.edu/events for full listing of workshops. 
Utilize Go IRISH to Find Out More About the Companies, Industries, and Positions 
-

To view all companies attending Winter Career Fair: 
1. 
Login to Go IRISH 

2. 
Click on Events Tab ..,. 

3. 
Click on Winter Career Fair 2009 to view participating employers and general posting information 


To view job postings: 
1. 
Login to Go IRISH 

2. 
Click on "Jobs/Internships" and select Go IRISH Jobs 

3. 
In the "Keywords" search, enter WCIF09 


Conduct Company and 
Industry Research 
The Vault Online Career Library 
https://careercenter2.nd.edu/library/#vault 
• Contains insider company information, advice, and career, industry, and employer guides and articles. 
CareerSearch ­https://careercenter2.nd.edu/library/#careersearch 
• Search for information on a company, industry, or location using a variety of search options. 
News.Google.com 
• Search for company-related current events 
Company Websites 
• Review mission statements, annual reports, and products or services 
The Career Center 
IUIIII' 11.111111'1' D P llftTIIIIL II.UIIIIL 
careercenter.nd.edu 1 (574) 631-5200 I ndcps@nd.edu 
Monday, January 19, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Shootout 
continued from page 24 
to create a situation where it will work in the future," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
Jackson said that he was pleased with his team's come­back effort Saturday. 
"That's the sign of a little bit of a more mature team just in the fact that our guys don't 
panic when  we  don't score  
first or when we  fall behind,"  
he said.  

The Lakers also struck first on Friday night when Will Acton scored 10 minutes into the game. The Irish quickly bounced back coast, split a pair of defenders and then snuck a shot past LSSU goalie Pat Inglis for his second shorthander of the sea­son. 
Lake Superior took the lead one more time before Kevin Deeth and the Irish powerplay tied the game for good midway through the second period. 
After scoreless third and overtime periods, young guns Billy Maday and Calle Ridderwall scored in the shootout and Pearce was able to stop all but one Laker attempt. For the 20th time in a row, the Irish left the rink on top. 
"It's not really about the 
streak," 
Jackson said. 
"It's about each 

with goals from "... We really try game having its 
senior Justin own importance
to focus on the

White, sopho­and we really more Calle day-to-day process try to focus on 
Ridderwall and and pot the results.,, the day-to-day j u n i o r process and not Christiaan the results." 
Jeff Jackson 

Minella to Jackson secure a win. Irish coach knows from 
The last time experience that Notre Dame a mid-season trailed by more streak does not than a goal was Oct. 25 to mean much when it comes .to Miami -the last game they crunch time. While coaching lost. for Lake Superior State in 
After the Lakers' Steven 1991, he led his team to a 28­Kaunisto and Chad Nehring game streak in the regular scored early in the first period, season on!:(_to see them lose in the Irish began to mount a the openrng round of the comeback. Sophomore Ben NCAA Tournament. Ryan scored his seventh goal "It's going to end at some of the season with two and a point," he said. half minutes left in the period Notre Dame will have its to pull the Irish within one. hands full in the weeks to 
Senior captain Erik Condra come. After a one-week hiatus tied the game at the start of the Irish will play a home-and­the second with a shorthanded home series with No. 6 goal. Condra went coast-to-Michigan. 

WU YUEffhe Observer 

Irish senior Jordan Pearce and the rest of the Notre Dame defense have been tough to crack this sea­son. They are the main reason the Irish have not lost in their past 20 times on the ice. 
The team will use the week those one on one battles at to knock off team after team ,off to heal up the usual bumps both nets really," he said. with good defense and solid and bruises and focus on some "Those are things we can goaltending from senior parts of their game that have spend a little more time on Jordan Pearce, but the Irish been lacking. Jackson said he this week. Driving to the net will need some extra firepower hopes to strengthen his team's more because we haven't been to keep their streak alive. play around the net on offense scoring a lot of goals over the and defense. last several games." Contact Dan Murphy at 
"Just working on winning Notre Dame has been able to dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Where the girls are. 
jUST ONE Bi..OCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Wonder where ND girls are living next year? 
Brand r.ew Irish Row Apartments and lrish Crossings Townhom!'s are leasing fast for both the 1009-2010 and 2010-20l~ schoo! years. 
Interestingly, fulme residents are 80% girts and 20% guys so far-that's four gids to every one guy. 
What brings the girts? 
M~ it's the cool feature5 lhat come v.ith living at kish Row .or insh Cmssings, iiKe: 
• furnished residences 
--lndu-ding a 42" fiat oane! HOW .:; e>-e=-:. t;iing room 

"' Pm:>a1e, fuli bath in e<Kh bedfoom • laundry room with washer & dr'{~r io ~"?ach uoit 
• 
Up to .$ t:.Wm~ms pa ooit • fitness center and lounge. including tanning 

• 
FREt !m.effi€1 & 200+ TV stations • Brand nt>W construction 


• Communit) social events 
• Close to g1oceries. restamar.ts, entert.'~inment aru:l campus 

Come see what's bringing in all the girls. But, better hurry before all the guys catch on_ 
,_,
• 
Irish 
ROW 

Ai~~·-... 
$6·!0.-·~ 
lrishRowApa~ntuom I lri:shCrossings.com• ~~~~@·~'ish~~~m~txt5A:om 1~74.177.6666 


Frosh 
continued from page 24 
hers, will be able to continue 
•Notre Dame fencing's winning tradition. 
"We have a very strong team," Bednarski said. "Maybe not the strongest in the nation, but we can fight anybody." 
Competition began Friday evening with the men's foil class. Meinhardt earned first place and an A2009 classifica­tion with his play through the pool and direct elimination rounds, while sophomore Zachary Schirtz finished 55th. All-American brothers senior Mark and sopho­more Steve Kubik finished 
-57th and tied for "We have a very Beatriz Almeida 83rd respective­strong team. Maybe and senior .· ly. Junior Ted Ashley Serrette
not the strongest in 
Hodges finished finished 61 st
the nation, but we
125th in the field and 91st. 
of 188. can fight anybody.,, Competitions Bednarski has finished late praised Sunday night in
Janusz Bednarski 
Meinhardt's men's junior foil,
Irish coach 
maturity and men's sabre, 
placed 93rd. 
Friday's action concluded with the women's junior epees, in which two Notre Dame fresh­men competed. Freshman Courtney Hurley, sister of junior All-American epee Kelley Hurley, finished first in class to earn her A2009 ranking, while Diane Zielinski ended up in 43rd place. 
Senior All-American Karol Kostka opened Saturday's play with a fifth place showing and an A2009 ranking in men's epee. Freshman Christopher Pinkowski finished 202nd. Sophomore Hayley Reese and freshman Radmilla Sarkisova placed 17th and 24th in the women's junior foil competition. 
In the 
women's sabre, 
freshman 

intelligent play, which helped Gerek become the youngest fencer in Beijing this summer. 
"Olympic fencers can be as old as 35, 36, 37 years old. Experience is a huge factor in a sport like fencing, so for Gerek to be there was very special," Bednarski said. "He is a great young man who not only is a terrific athlete, but also is very intelligent." 
Three underclassmen com­peted for the Irish in the men's sabre junior class. Sophomore lefties Zuck and All-American Barron Nydam took home first and third, respectively, each picking up an A2009 classifica­tion. Freshman Marcel Frenkel 
and women's 
epee, while 

Monday hosts men's junior epee, women's foil, and women's junior sabre. 
The excellent start to Notre Dame's 2009 season has not gone to Bednarski's head, whose goal is to keep his team on track for an NCAA Championship. 
"It's very hard for coaches to predict," Bednarski said. "I've been in this business for so long. There are so many factors we can't control, especially on such a young team. But any­thing can happen if we ma'ke it to the Bloody Four." 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 19, 2009 
NFL 

Arizona earns first Super Bovvl berth vvith defeat of Eagles 
Cardinals blow 18-point halftime lead but come back strong in fourth quarter behind arm of quarterback Warner 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz. -That's not a mirage rising out of the desert, folks. It's the lowly Arizona Cardinals soaring to their first Super Bowl. 
Yes, the Cardinals, founding members of the NFL, but histor­ically among the most dysfunc­tional of franchises, finally have joined the big boys. Capitalizing on Larry Fitzgerald's three first-half touchdown receptions, then coolly marching downfield to Kurt Warner's 8-yard scoring pass to rookie Tim Hightower with 2:53 left, they beat the Philadelphia Eagles 32-25 Sunday for the NFC champi­onship. 
"That drive where we scored a touchdown at the end of the game and took seven minutes was really the difference," Arizona coach Ken Whisenhunt said. 
Donovan McNabb was superb in leading Philadelphia's sec­ond-half rally, but he misfired from midfield four times in the final moments. 
Arizona (12-7) will face the AFC champion in two weeks in Tampa for the NFL title. Baltimore played at Pittsburgh later in the day for the AFC crown. 
If the Cardinals, the first No. 4 seed to host a conference championship game, were sup­posed to be thunderstruck by their surroundings, they instead responded like playoff veterans. 
Sure, they blew a 24-6 half­time lead. But then the 37 -year­old Warner, a Super Bowl MVP from almost a decade ago with the St. Louis Rams, engineered a precise, 72-yard drive to win it with his fourth TO pass of the day. 
He finished the comeback with the 8-yard pass to Hightower, then hit Ben Patrick for the 2-point conversion. 
But the key was the unstop­pable Fitzgerald, who had nine receptions for 152 yards, including two big catches on 
· the decisive drive. The All-Pro set a single postseason record with 419 yards receiving, sur­passing the great Jerry Rice. And Fitzgerald has one more game to go -in the Super Bowl. 
Can you imagine? 
They surely never looked this good before in the Phoenix area, or their previous homes in Chicago and St. Louis. 
"[ want to say thanks to all or you guys," Warner told the crowd during postgame cele­brations that included streams of confetti spewed into the air and the obligatory "We are the Champions" blaring. "When nobody else believed in us, when nobody else believed in me, you guys did and we're going to the Super Bowl." 
Blown out by the Eagles 48­20 on Thanksgiving, Whisenhunt's team looked com­pletely different in its first title game since 1948. 
"And it was appropriate we had a bunch of different people make those plays, and it was a great team win for us," said Whisenhunt, who in two sea­sons as coach as turned a losing culture into a championship environment. 
With playoff victories over Atlanta, Carolina and the Eagles (11-7-1). this is the Cardinals' winningest season. 


They've already surpassed their total of postseason wins dating back to when the playoffs began in 1933. 
"It's been a tough number of years here in Arizona," Whisenhunt admitted. 
The last NFC team since the 1970 merger to make it this far, Arizona also is the first team with nine wins in the regular season to make the Super Bowl since the 1979 Rams lost to the Steelers. 
For the favored Eagles, it was another disappointing end. 
Coach Andy Heid's team reached the NFC title game five times in the last eight seasons, losing four. They lost to New England in their only Super Bowl appearance during that run. 
"You never want anything to end, and you don't see it end­ing," McNabb said. "To end this way, it's tough, when you're that close to making the Super Bowl." 
This one look(1d like a romp through the Valley of the Sun for the hosts until Philadelphia brought more pressure on Warner in the second half. The Cardinals gained only 8 yards in the third quarter, while McNabb hit Brent Celek for touchdowns of 6 and 31 yards. 
McNabb, who once this sea­son got benched after a terrible opening half, had come alive with a fury, even silencing the crowd for a while. His 62-yard heave to rookie DeSean Jackson was tipped by cornerback Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie into Jackson's hands near the goal line with 10:45 to go. 
Celebrate the Feast Day of 
Blessed Basil Moreau 

January 20th 
Today we have an enhanced awareness of the rich and living legacy that Basil Moreau passed on, not only to the religious of Holy Cross and those who minister with them, but to all who are committed to continuing the mission and message of Jesus. 

JOEL GIALLANZA, C.S.C. 
CYCLING 

Armstrong plays 
it safe in first race 
Associated Press 

ADELAIDE, Australia ­Lance Armstrong made a cau­tious return to professional cycle racing Sunday, finishing 64th among 133 riders in a 30­mile eriterium in downtown Adelaide. 
More than 138,000 people watched Armstrong return from three years of retirement and begin a campaign to win his eighth Tour de France title. 
lie stayed well back in a tight field throughout Sunday's race on a winding circuit around leafy Hymill Park, following team instruetions to avoid any chance of crashing. 
Armstrong will compete in the six-day Tour Down Under, whieh starts Tuesday. The cri­terium does not count toward Tour overall standings. 
"That was fun," the 37-year­old Armstong said. "It felt good. I've been training a lot for this comeback and this raee. It's good the first day is over and now I can get into the racing." 
Australia's Hobbie McEwen ­a winner of 12 stages in the Tour de France -won the race for. the Hussian Team Katusha ahead of Willem Stroetinga of the Netherlands and fellow Australian Graeme Brown. 
Armstrong was ushered to the front of the field for the start of the race with another Tour de France winner, Oscar Perero of Spain, defending Tour Down Under champion Andre Greipel of Germany and Australian Stuart O'Grady. 
The seven-time Tour de France winner quickly settled in the middle of the peleton, avoiding any possibility of pile­ups on the tight corners of the 1-mile circuit. 
"I think the last time I did that fast a race was back in probably 1990," Armstrong said. "It's fun to get back into it. I found it a bit safer and easier in the back." 

Other books in the Holy Cross tradition 


Books are available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and also at Ave Maria Press located across from Moreau Seminary. 

·~ ave maria press· • Notre Dome, Indiana • www.avemariapress.comAm E-mail: avemariapress.1@nd.edu • Ph: 1-800-282-1865 • Fax: l-800-282-56'81 
A Ministry of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross 



Monday, January 19, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
ANNUAL VVALK·ON TRYOUTS 

THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL PROGRAM WILL BE HOLDING WALK·ON TRYOUTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE SPRING SEMESTER. 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED: 
PICK·UP/FILL·OUT & RETURN: INFORMATION FORM & MEDICAL FORMS 
FORMS TO BE FILLED OUT ARE AT THE RECEPTION DESK AT THE FOOTBALL OFFICE IN THE GUGLIELMINO COMPLEX. 
YOUMUSTHAVETHEFORMS FILLED OUT AND RETURNED BY MONDAY JANUARY 19, 2009. 
FOLLOWING OUR RECEIPT OF ALL INFORMATION & MEDICAL FORMS, WE WILL HAVE AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING AND A SERIES OF TRYOUTS/WORKOUTS. 

Senior guard Kyle McAiarney led Notre Dame with 24 points and seven 3-pointers in the loss at Syracuse Saturday. 
Solon1on 
continued from page 24 
With the chance to tie the game, Lindsay only made one of two foul shots. 
Two seconds later, St. John's guard Monique McLean fouled guard Ashley Barlow, who made both her foul shots and gave the Irish a three-point lead. 
The Red Storm tried to get long-range sharpshooter Kelly McManmon open in the cor­ner for a game-tying three, but guard Lindsay Schrader blocked the shot, and Barlow came down with the rebound as time expired. 
St. John's coach Kim Barnes Arico scoffed when asked if the block, which took place right in front of her, was clean, but said she would wait to watch the film before pass­ing judgment. 
Guard Melissa Lechlitner 
finished with 15 points and Lindsay Schrader had 13 points and five assists. Barlow finished with 13 points and hit 3-of-6 3-pointers,_ and forward Becca Bruszewski had 13 points and made 4-of-5 foul shots. 
Notre Dame contained McLean, the Red Storm's lead­ing scorer, in the first half, holding her to three points on 1.-of-8 shooting. In the second half, however, she found her stroke and space to use it. She finished with 17 points and four 3-pointers. 
"We left her alone," McGraw said. "We forgot about her. She managed to get free. A couple timeS it was rotation, a couple times it was off the press. She's a very good play­er. Having her go 6-for-18, I think we did a very good job on her." 
That press may have allowed McLean open looks, but it also created crucial stops and turnovers. It often trapped St. John's in its own zone and left the offense with about half the shot clock remaining, and at one point caused a shot clock violation. 
"We just wanted something to slow them down, so we only had to play 10 or 15 seconds of defense," McGraw said. "When we came back to the press at the end of the game, we got a couple steals that were critical." 
Notre Dame led 34-27 at the half and a layup from center Erica Williamson extended the lead to 11 in the opening min­utes of the second half. But two three-point plays, one from McLean and one from forward Da'Shena Stevens, helped St. John's pull within three. 
The Irish widened the gap to eight with Lechlitner's 3­poihter, but that would be Notre Dame's last basket for more than five minutes. McLean hit two threes during a 12-0 run that gave St. John's a 52-48 -lead with 10:56 remaining. 
The Red Storm held the l(.md until 6:12 left in the game, when Bruszewski converted a 3-point play to tie the game at 
58. Four foul shots by Stevens gave St. John's a one-point lead, but then Solomon's layup put the Irish ahead for good, 
"I think thaT shows fight in our team, coming back," Lechlitner said. "It starts on defense for us." 
McGraw said her older play­ers, such as Lechlitner and Barlow, have the "killer instinct" needed to win close games. Lechlitner said the younger players possess it, but it hasn't shone through yet. 
"You're going to see it down the road," she said. "Because they all have it." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

to cut the Orange lead to 74.-69. But that was as close as the
Orange 
Irish would get. Syracuse guard Jonny Flynn
continued from page 24 
scored four points in just over a 
Syracuse forward Arinze minute to lead his team on a Onuaku scored 19 points and, run that slammed the door on perhaps more importantly, held Notre Dame. Irish forward Luke Harangody "We were trying to get back to 9-of-28 field goal shooting. in the game," McAlarney said. Harangody finished with 25 "You fight so hard to get back in points and 16 rebounds but said that position, and when you get he was disappointed with his to that point, it's hard to switch performance. gears a little bit. We did a good 
"This one's on me, job of trying to, but they just Ilarangody told the Associated kept running on us, kept push­Press. ''I've reached the time in ing on us and made some big my career where I need to step shots down the stretch." up and 9-for-28 from the field is The Orange closed the game unacceptable. I by draining can't lay a goose eight consecu­
egg like that, tive free throws especially on the as the Irish con­stantly fouled to
road." ''This one's on me." 
Onuaku said stop the clock. Orange coach Six Orange
Luke Harangody
Jim Boeheim players scored challenged the Irish junior in double figures Syracuse big whereas only men to slow Harangody, d o w n McAlarney and Harangody, the forward Ryan reigning Big East player of the Ayers topped 10 points for year. Notre Dame. 
"Coach told us to stay down Flynn hit a 3-pointer early in and make him take tough the first half to give Syracuse a shots," Onuaku said to the 15-12 advantage and the 
Associated Press. "He's such a great player that you have to make him work hard and think about it. You just try to put a hand in his face to discourage the shot." 
Irish guard Kyle McAlarney had 24 points, including seven 3-pointers, and almost led his team on a comeback from a 16­point second-half deficit. The senior sharpshooter drained a trey with 4:05 left in the game Orange did not trail for the rest of the contest. 
The Irish have now lost nine of their last 10 road games against ranked opponents. But they will return to the Joyce Center next Saturday to take on No. 4 Connecticut and lay their 45-game home win streak on the line. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Lyttle 
continued from page 24 
and sophomore Michael Sullivan won the meet's first two individual events, as Lyttle took first in the 200-freestyle while Sullivan earned top· hon­ors iw-·the 1,000-freestyle. However, the Grizzlies placed first in the next four events to jump ahead of the Irish. Notre Dame dominated the one­meter diving for the second straight day, as Dunnichay, Lex, Villafor, Bulfin, and Geary took the top five spots once again. 
Lyttle matched with 100­freestyle win from the night before with a time of 45.93. Two events later, senior Daniel Rave won the 200-breast­stroke. Sophomore Stephen Brus took first place in the 500 freestyle. Bulfin· earned Notre Dame's final win of the day with his first place finish in the three-meter diving event. 
With the two losses, the Irish dropped to 3-6 on the year. Notre Dame returns to action next weekend when it hosts the Shamrock Invitational at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
IAN GAVLICK!The 

page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 19, 2009 
CALL FOR PRESENTATIONS 
-~­
the 2nd Annual University ofNo 

Students from 
ALL COLLEGES 
are invited to submit abstracts of propose_dpresentations oftheir Research, 
Critical Analysis, 
and 
Creative Endeavors 


Students wishing to participate in the 
College of Science 3rd Joint Annual Meeting 
I 
should submit their abstracts to the
I . 
Undergraduate Scholars Conference. 
Sub"zissions deadline is Monday, March 16 Notification by Monday, March 30 
Guidelines and application are available at: 
http:/jundergradresearch.nd.edu 
---------------------' 
-,--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, January 19, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WWW.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

DAVID CAVADINI 
THE DOME PIECE 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
1°[] I I I M~!?" 
©2008 Tnbune Medm ServiCes, lnc. A~ ~ ·..••..•... ···.···."'.·.·.··•.•. 
r~~~·~~-~~ ~~
1 
_§,.

INCANE I~ 
THIS C.AN MAKE: ··~.

[IJ I I I FOR A "GE:NIAL-' 
www.jumble.com 
E:VE:NING 

I SYMFLE ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I r J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here: [ 
I I JAND [ I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: TEPID SPURN CANNED ENOUGH Answer: What the dietitian did when the English patient lost weight -GAINED "POUNDS" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITI&.<; BORN ON THIS DAY: Jesse L.Martin,40: Jane Horrocks, 45: Mark Messier, 48: Kevin Costner, 54 Happy Birthday: Too much, to,, fast will be your downfall this year. Size down. budget and take care of things you have left unfinished. Bt."' smart if you want to move fonvard \Vhen the economie slump ~tru1s to turn around. Listen. learn and be cautious ofanyone trying to push you to lake a risk. Focus will be what's important. Your numbers ar.o 3. 12. 21. 25, 33,38,49 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): An opponunity will com-o to you through a work collllec­tion you :t.nade in past years. Th.is will enable you to take on a project you've been consid­ering and will verify that you are on the right track.*** 
TAlJRUS (..\prillO-May 201: Getting in too deq> will cause you grief. B.o careful and don't sign anything you may not be able" to handle in the future. Don1t let love. family or friends cost you. *** 
GEMINI !Ma,· 21-.June 20): .Choo'e your battle; and avoid havoc.lf emotional i%U<!S are involved. it may affect your ability t0 think cl~arly, causing you to make a mistake. Concentrate on getting ahead and utilizing your talents to the fullest. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 21): You can count on help at home if you want to make some changes. to your surroundings. Take control and lay out your plans. Love is looking good and an unusual proposal will be forthcoming:.***** • 
LEO (July B-Ang.ll): Too much deception will cause au awkward situation with someone from your past. Get out of the line offrre before old feelings surfac;; and anger sets in. Focus on the present and the future. * * 
VffiGO (Aug. 2]-Sept.l2): You can judge a sittwtion better tlwo m0st, ~o stick to your own game plan. A social event "'ill kad to a closer bond with someone who can contrib­ute to your life and your future.**** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.\-0ct. 22): Trust in your own abilities and let your intuition guide you. If someone is trying to bully you, put a1t end to it. Minor mishaps at home will have tn be taken can: of immediately. Someone from your past \\'ill come to your res<·ue. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2.J-Nov. 211: Emotional deception will take you by surprise. Get to the bottom of whatever is going on. Love \Vill take a ~trange but favorable turn. Be powerful when you represent your situation and you "ill win.*** 
SAGITTARIUS !Nov_ 22-Dec. 21):-Don't overindulge or you will have an emotional problem on your hands that will be difficult to resolve. A change in one of your relation­ships will leave you shocked and tmcenain. Someone with clout will make you take an objective look at a situation.*** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have to take action S\\·iftly if someone of­fends you.Aproblem with ;omeone you ha,·e had to deal with in the past will bring back sour memories. Don't teet guilty turning do\\,n an in\-i.tation if it will be detrimental t~.1 your own well-being.**** 
AQL\RIFS (Jan. 20-Jo'eb. 18): Don't go overboard or you will ha,·e to answer for your irresponsibility. Helping out someom· in need will give you perspective and insight. You have lots to offer if you take your experiem·e and knowledge and put it to good use. * * 
PISCJo:S (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Getting a gift, an old debt paid or a loan will help you out initially but it may cost you more in what's expected of you at a later date. Make sure you read the line pl'int before you sign Y<lUr life away. D<1n't let love confuse you or lead to a costly mistake.***** 
Birthday Baby: You have a vidd imagination and an entrepreneul'ial charm. You are re­lentless in your pun.uits and caring when it comes to the uuderd~tg. 
Eugenia~-, Web site5: eflgenialast.comfor confidi•utwl tonsulwtwm, myspace.com!eugfnia/astfor Errgwir/s blog. a,'f.froadrice.com for fim 
CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Witty sorts 5 Make sense 
1 0 Choice word 14 Think tank 
nugget 15 On the lam 16 Gerund, e.g. 17 Bond villain 19 Saw red? 20 Ph.D. thesis: 
Abbr. 21 Gets corroded 22 Bemoan 25 "Beats me" 
gesture 28 Rub out 29 Certain trout 33 Basis of a suit 34 Endless, 
poetically 35 Fraternity P 
36 "Survivor" shelter 37 Some red wines 38 Obey the coxswain 39 Cheroot residue 40 Wings it 41 Place for a 
hoedown 42 Classic blues musician 
44 Intuit 45 The "35" in John 11:35 46 Prodded 47 Woods or Irons 50 Flair 51 Laugh heartily 52 Patriarchal gorilla 58 Pond organism 59 Primp 60 Natural soother 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Lounge in the sun 62 Feel nostalgia, e.g. 63 Grips or Bloods 
Down 1 Faux 'fro? 2 Brouhaha 3 Goo in a do 4 Most mournful 5 Most-wanted 
group for a party 6 Puts on 7 Follow 
everywhere 8 Put to work 9 Part of r.p.m. 
10 "Stop!" 11 Wall Street minimums 12 Fatty Jreat for 
birds 13 Pulls the plug on 18 Ticket cost? 
21 Game sheet 22 Deadly 23 Work up 24 First first lady 25 Germ-free 26 As a result of 
this 27 Patronizes U­
Haul, e.g. 29 Plays for time 30 Gofer's iob 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Steve Kahn  
31 When repeated, cry by Shakespeare!s Richard Ill 32 Consumed heartily 34 Octogenarian, for one  41 Nontraditional chair style 43 Czech composer Anton in 44 Go up, up, up 46 Filmdom's Close 47 Omani, e.g.  50"... after" 52 U-2 pilot, e.g. 53 Ill temper 54 Grazing ground 55 Carte start 56 Bamboozle  
37 Pole tossed by  48 Fast-food drink  57 Fraternity party  
Scots  49 Makes "it"  setup  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nvtimes.comllearnina/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
.. 

-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, January 19, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish continue skid by dropping two n1ore over vveekend 
Despite the losses, the Irish times. We also wanted a win, The Irish were also dominant Andrew Deters, who won the 
By MIKE GOTIMER still saw some positives from we didn't get that." on the diving board, led by 1 ,000-free. 
Sporrs Writer their performances. The Irish began their week­senior Michael Bulfin, who The Irish had little rest after 
"Coming into this weekend, end on Friday night at the placed first in both the one­the loss to the Wildcats, as 
Notre Dame came into the we wanted three things," Irish Rolfs Aquatic Center with a meter and three-meter events. they traveled to Rochester, weekend with its sights set on coach Tim Welsh said after 175-125 loss to Northwestern. The Irish claimed the top five Mich. to face Oakland on returning to the win column Friday's loss to Northwestern. Despite the loss, the Irish had spots from the one-meter plat­Saturday afternoon. The with dval meets against "We wanted to be faster than a fair amount of quality indi­form. Grizzlies narrowly edged out Northwestern and Oakland we were last week, we were. vidual performances. Rounding out the top five in the Irish by a score of 161.5­after falling at Louisville on We wanted to be approaching Junior John Lyttle swept both order were sophomoreS Eric 137.5 for Notre Dame's third Jan. 10. or exceeding our best dual the 50 and 100-yard freestyle Lex and Wesley Villafor, junior consecutive dual meet loss. 
However, after dropping both meet times outside of a cham­races, duplicating a feat that Caleb Dunnichay, and sopho­In total, the Irish won seven contests, the Irish are still pionship meet, and in a lot of he accomplished in Notre more Nathan Geary. Notre of the meet's 16 events. Lyttle looking for a win to stop their cases, we were there -some­Dame's 2008 dual meet against Dame's other first place finish slide. times life-best and season-best the Wildcats. in the meet came from junior see LYTTLE/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Free throws play key role in win over SJU 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Editor 
Erica Solomon ensured that free throws would decide the game. The Irish hit theirs. The Red Storm couldn't. 
The freshman forward helped Notre Dame hang on to win 70-67 over St. John's at the Joyce Center Saturday. The Irish (15-2. 4-1 Big East) led by as many as 11 in the second half, but St. John's (13-4, 1-3) closed the gap and the teams traded leads down the stretch. 
Solomon made a layup with 
1:25 left to give Notre Dame a 67-66 lead, then grabbed an offensive rebound on her own missed shot and drew a foul a minute later. 
"I saw a lot of their shirts underneath the basket and all of a sudden [Solomon] came away with the ball, I don't know how she got it," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "That was an incredible rebound." 
Solomon, who had nine points and eight rebounds, made one of her tw·o free throws, and Notre Dame led by two. She said she focused on rebounding during a phys­ical game under the basket. "I just had to find my man and box her out," she said. "I just had to get the rebounds, I just had to fight." 
With 14 seconds left, fresh­man Frederica Miller fouled Red Storm guard Sky Lindsay. 
see SOLOMON/page 21 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Cold shooting leads to loss 
Irish fall short on the road against Orange 
By FRANTOLAN Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's cold shooting mirrored the frigid tempera­tures outside of Syracuse's Carrier Dome Saturday as the Orange beat the Irish 93-74. 
The Irish shot just 35.5 per­cent froni the field as their three-game win streak against Syracuse came to an end. 
No. 8 Syracuse improved to 17-2 overall and 5-1 in Big East play in front of over 30,000 fans. The No. 12 Irish dropped to 12-5 and 3-3 in conference action after losing their second straight game to a ranked OP.ponent. 
see ORANGE/page 21 
.. 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer Junior forward Luke Harangody dribbles around a defender dur­ing Notre Dame's 88-79 win over Seton Hall on Jan. 10. 
HocKEY 

20 and counting 
ND needs shootout to finish weekend sweep 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
No. 1 Notre Dame needed 
two comebacks and a shootout 
to do it, but the Irish stretched 
their unbeaten streak to an 
even 20 games this weekend 
against Lake Superior State. 
After a 3-2 win Friday night, Notre Dame (19-3-3) found itself in a two-goal hole in the first period. The Irish came from behind twice to force overtime and eventually won 2-1 in a shootout. 
The Irish pick up two points for the shootout victory in the CCHA but the NCAA officially counts it as a tie because the CCHA is the only league that currently has shootouts. 
"Our league is being proac­tive and trying to eliminate ties from the game, just to try 
see SHOOTOUT/page 21 


FENCING 
Youngsters lead tean1 at NACD 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Despite having to replace one of the most talented senior classes in recent memory, Notre Dame's freshmen have already proved they are more than up to the task. 
Five Irish fencers finished in the top five of their respective classes in individual competi­tion at the U.S. Fencing Association's final North American Cup of the season in Louisville, Kent. Two freshmen, Courtney Hurley and Olympian Gerek Meinhardt, as well as sophomore Avery Zuck, took home first place honors. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski, who guided his squad to second place at the 2008 NCAA Championships, is confident that his 14 freshmen fencers, along with the veteran mem­
see FROSH/page 21 



