
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
May's Commencement to be held in Stadium 

Exercises to be moved from Joyce Center, removing attendence limits; colleges to hold diploma ceremonies 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON Associate News Editor 
University President Fr. John Jenkins announced the University Commencement Ceremony will be moved this year from the Joyce Center arena to the Notre Dame Stadium in an e-mail to the student body yesterday. 
Allowing all the family mem­bers of graduates to attend commencement was the pri­mary motivating factor for 

Moreau box office begins Web ticket sales 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 

Don't have time in your sched­ule to walk to the box office to purchase tickets? Problem solved. The Moreau Center for the Arts announced Sept. 30 they now provide an option to buy online tickets. 
"We have heard several com­ments from patrons concerning our box otlice hours, specifically that we aren't open on weekends or past 5 p.m. for those that work a normal workday," Patron Services and Marketing Manager Chris Selleck said. "Now our patrons have the ability to pur­chase their tickets 24/7 from their own home." 
Patrons are able to choose their seats online and print their tickets at home, she said. 
All tickets -printed at home or bought at the box office ­have barcodes that are scanned at the doors prior to entering an event to ensure their authentici­ty, Selleck said. This online fea­ture is unique to the Moreau Center, she said. 
"To the best of my knowledge, we are the only arts organization in the area that is using this tech­nology," Selleck said. 
If the online box office suc­ceeds, the system may be used by other Saint Mary's College venues. 
"Our hope is to also expand our ticketing system into other areas of the College such as ath­letic events. This new system is revolutionizing the way we do 
see TICKETS/page 6 moving the ceremony, Jenkins said. 
"The University Commen­cement Ceremony represents an important milestone in the lives of all members of the Notre Dame family," he said. "Rather than limit the number of tickets available, forcing families to choose which grandparents and siblings can attend, we want to welcome everyone to share in this proud moment." 
Jenkins said the only alterna­tive was to reduce guest seat­ing, which he called "an unac­ceptable course of action." 
The reduction in seating was caused by this year's renova­tions to the Joyce Center and the addition of the Purcell Pavilion, which Jenkins said reduces the size of the arena by about 2,000 seats. 
"Rather than offer each grad­uate only two guest tickets for the University Commencement Ceremony, Notre Dame Stadium provides the opportu­nity to remove limits on guest attendance," he said. 
Jenkins said this year will also be the first time the University holds undergradu­ate "diploma ceremonies" in each college "so that each graduate hears his or her name called and receives a diploma and well-deserved recognition on stage." 
However, holding the cere­mony outdoors runs the risk of having bad weather interfere with Commencement. Jenkins said Commencement will pro­ceed "rain or shine" and "only severe weather [would move] it indoors." 
Senior Nicholas Dan said he is glad his entire family will be able to attend the ceremony, but he hopes the weather does­n't ruin the event. 
"I am looking forward to the Commencement in the Stadium," he said. "I am glad that I will be able to have my whole family attend and as long as it doesn't rain, I think it will be a much better arrange­ment." 
see MOVE/page 6 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

Student body president Grant Schmidt delivered his first State of the Student Union address to the Student Senate during its meeting Wednesday, identifying off-campus safety as a top priori~ ty and urging students to be proactive against crime. 
Schmidt commended the new developments on and around campus, but cautioned that safe­ty could become an issue with more reasons for students to go off campus. 
"With the construction of Eddy Street Commons, the newly­developed apartments east of campus including Irish Row and 
STUDENT SENATE 

Schmidt delivers State of Student Union address 
Irish Crossings, there are more reasons to go off campus," Schmidt said. "There are stu­dents living in Northeast Neighborhood, restaurants in the area, parties at different locations, bars, the mall, the gro­cery store, etc." 
Schmidt said experiencing off­campus life is part of the college experience and that students should feel safe when they ven­ture off campus. 
"Half of what we want at Notre Dame is to of course become immersed in all that Notre Dame has to offer, but also, go out into the city of South Bend," he said. 
"Over 80 percent of our stu­dent body volunteers in those 
see SCHMIDT/page 6 

Notre Dame student plays on World Cup team 
Irish freshman midfielder Dillon Powers spends summer competing in Egypt, Greece 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame freshman Dillon Powers recently got the chance of a lifetime when he traveled to Greece and Egypt while play­ing for the United States Under­20 Men's World Cup soccer team. 
Powers, who will playing mid­field for the Fighting Irish soc­cer team this year. has been traveling for soccer his whole life. He played for the Under-15 National Team, the Andromeda Soccer Club, the Under-18 National Team and was named the Gatorade National Boys Soccer Player of the Year dur­ing his senior year at Plano 
see SOCCER/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER NASCAR program debuts on campus page 3 • PEMCo.'s fall show page 12 • Shaquelle Evans page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 8, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Not Svvift Enough 
It makes me laugh that when Tim Brown or Rocket Ismail come back to Notre Dame no one bats an eye, but bring one 19-year­old singer on campus and the place shuts down. 
But I can'tjudge. Once I got the text I went out to look for her too. 
Because who's not a Taylor Swift fan? For a long time, I wasn't. I didn't see the hype. "Love Story?" Comparing Shakespeare to 17th­

Bill Brink 
century Puritan litera­ture? Juliet and Hester ManagingPrynne don't belong in 
Editor 
the same song and the marriage at the end has a 50-50 chance oflasting until her next album comes out. 
If he's trying to be quiet because his marna don't know, why are they slamming screen doors? And "Take me back to the time we had our very first fight?" I love fighting. Let's relive that. Sign me up. 
But then I drove across the country with my friend Danny, a T-Swift fanatic, and once we got to Nebraska we had listened to every song on our iPods. So back came Taylor. Around Iowa I could tolerate it. By Grand Junction, Colo.. Iwas hooked. 
Then I saw 'Thug Story," her rap video with T-Pain. That hammered it home. A beautiful blonde gangster who makes caramel delight cookies? Isn't that every guy's dream? 
She's so appealing because she walks the line between fantasyland and real life. Of course people's lives don't play out like "Love Story," but wouldn't it be nice ifthey did? Hasn't everyone believed someone else belonged with them, not with the good-for-nothing jerk he/she was with? And think about "Fifteen." I'm a history major, meaning I won't get a job, and a journalism minor, meaning I double won't get a job, so I'd love to go back to freshman year of high school when nothing really mattered. 
She's also inspiration to accomplish something. She's two years younger than me and had two albums go platinum. She wrote a novel (unpublished) and is an NHL spokeswoman. What have I done? 
Most importantly, she has ties to Notre Dame. Remember the music video for "You Belong With Me?" That football field was at Pope John Paul II High School in Hendersonville, Tenn., where her brother Austin, who was looking at Notre Dame as a potential college, goes. It's also the alma mater of none other than Golden Tate. 
So I'm walking across campus looking for a tall blonde and having no luck. I'm on the phone with Danny, who's having a con­niption-"Do you have a picture of me?! Write my number on the back."-and I see hundreds of people converging on a golf cart. I walk over, realizing now that my camera, currently sitting on my bookshelf at home, does me no good. She starts driv­ing towards me and I freeze. How do I reduce everything I just wrote into half a second as she drives by? Should I jump on the golf cart? Propose? Smile sheepishly? I went with option smile sheepishly, which was quickly overshadowed by the horde of students screaming and chasing after her. My chance was lost forever. 
Sorry, Taylor. Next time you're on cam­pus, I'll have my game face on. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Dto YOU SEE TAYLOR SWIFT? 






Alisa Rantanen  Matt Chronert  Ryan Shay  Sarah Philbin  Anna Seghetti  
freshman Ryan  junior Dillon  junior Dillon  sophomore Ryan  senior Lyons  
"No, but everyone told me all about it!"  "I heard there were a bunch of fake Taylor Swift's running around."  '1sawherin Main Building. Meandafew other kids ran out ofour class early and took pictures with her."  "I heard she was in DPAC!"  "I just missed her behind the Dome, her car had just pulled away. I love her, I really wanted to see her!"  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Photo Courtesy of Joe Nye Notre Dame students, from top left, Dave Surprenant, Joseph Hurtekant, David Mahin, Anmol Malhotra and Gavin Do, from bottom left, Don Jamell and Joe Nye, pose with musi­cian Taylor Swift in the Main Building Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 

Candidate puts rivals' names on yard tombstones 
SYLVANIA, Ohio -A man running for office in Ohio has put a Halloween display in his yard that includes tomb­stones bearing the names of his political opponents. Royal Barber of Sylvania Township near Toledo said it's all in good fun. Some of his oppo­nents don't think so. 
One asked that his name be taken off the tombstone. Barber agreed, crossing out the name and replacing it with an asterik. 
Another of Barber's rivals for township trustee said she burst out laughing when she saw the tombstone with her 
name. She said Barber should put more time into running his own campaign instead of decorating his yard. 
Naked burglar breaks into home, cooks and showers 
SLIDELL, La. -Police said a naked man who appeared to bn drunk or on drugs broke into a home in Slidell, cooked and ate a meal and took a shower before leaving, wrapped only in a sheet. Slidell Police Capt. Kevin Foltz said a video surveillance system at the home shows that the naked man first used a garden hose to shower outside the house. He later broke several win­dows, entered the house and ransacked it before cooking himself a meal, having several drinks and showering again. It hap­pened early Monday while the home's owner was away. 
Police chief Freddy Drennan was hoping for the public's help in finding the suspect. Pictures of the man have been released, includ­ing one that was on the front page of The Times­Picayune on Wednesday. 
Injbrmation compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
::c 
!;( 
L&J 
3: 

e
..... 


,,1,,1, ,1, 
e
c::r: 
(,) 
0 

HIGH 65 HIGH 54 HIGH 58 HIGH 53
...I 

LOW 50 LOW 47 LOW 40 LOW 35 

vided by DJ Jaime del Rio. 
The College of Science is host­ing a lecture on "Exploding Stars and the Accelerating Cosmos: Einstein's Blunder Undone" Friday at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Robert P. Kirshner, Clowes Professor of Science at Harvard University, will be speaking. 
The 121st Annual Sorin College Talent Show will take place on Friday at 8 p.m. in front of Sorin Hall. The event is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
e 
HIGH 50 HIGH 47 LOW 35 LOW 38 
Thursday, October 8, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
TeanlCOlllpetes inNASCARprogratn 
By CASEY KENNY News Writer 
New to Notre Dame this year is the "NASCAR Kinetics: Marketing in Motion" case-study program which offers students the chance to tackle the chal­lenges faced by NASCAR's sponsors and marketing pro­fessionals. 
"I got involved in the pro­gram because I am really interested in both sports and marketing, so a sports mar­keting competition was the perfect outlet for me," said Kate Hefele, a sophomore majoring in marketing and journalism. 
Team member, Nathan 
Durkes, a 
"We are one ofsix
R i c k y Gonzalez, a universities junior market­

competing in this 
ing major and 

program and it is a
captain of the 
new team, is great experience. '' excited by the hands-on learn­
Ricky Gonzalez
ing experience. 

junior marketing major 
"We are one of six universi­ties competing in this program and it is a great experience," he said. "We are given case studies by NASCAR to work on throughout the semester, culminating in a large case study and presentation at the end of October." 
The four-member Notre Dame team hopes to be among the top three teams chosen to receive an all expense paid trip to Florida in November to present their final case study to a panel of NASCAR judges. 
"We are very excited about our team's performance. We work with all aspects of mar­keting, communications and advertising and hope to make it to that stage where we can make our presentation face­to-face with NASCAR repre­sentatives in Florida," Gonzalez said. 
In its second year, NASCAR Kinetics attracts students from a variety of majors. 

would be a fan­tastic opportu­nity to apply the skills that I have gained over the last four years and to collaborate with other top students." 
Others wel­come the opportunity to work as a team on the case studies, which focus on real challenges 
senior business and theology double major at Holy Cross College, was drawn to the overall objec­tive of the program. "I have always been interested in the automo­tive business world and, by extension, the world of 

motorsports. When I heard about the NASCAR Kinetics program, I knew that it 
gram through Goirish, and applied because I felt that Notre Dame students could provide a competitive spirit in marketing that NASCAR is looking for. They stress a lot of the same qualities ND fans do, such as fan commitment -once a fan always a fan. It's a great exercise in team­work, and I am loving it so far." 
Throughout the semester, the team has been working on case studies and present­ing them via phone confer­ences to NASCAR representa­tives. 
"It's exciting to receive our case projects from NASCAR and know that when we send them our ideas, they are really reviewing and listen­ing to them, so our hard work actually makes a differ­ence versus just being a grade in a classroom," Hefele said. 
On Oct. 15 at 6 p.m. in the Eck Center Auditorium, 
"We are given case studies by NASCAR to work on throughout the semester, culminating in a large case study and presentation at the end ofOctober." 
Ricky Gonzalez junior marketing major 
NASCAR exec­utives and the Notre Dame NASCAR Kinetics team will present a panel discus­sion about the program. 
"This is an ideal way for students to learn about careers and opportunities within the sports indus­tries, and the 
Theology on Fire examines health care 
By CAITLIN HOUSELEY Sports Writer 

Church teachings should inform the health care debate Sr. Geraldine Hoyler, general treasurer of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, said during Saint Mary's College Theology on Fire series on Wednesday. 
"Health care is a form of making God present in peo­ple's lives," Hoyler said. "When people are ill, they are vulnerable, and when people are vulnerable, it is much eas­ier for them to meet God." 
Noting that health care providers should make Jesus known to their patients, Hoyer said, "You qpn't just want to take care of a person's broken leg, and not their broken heart." 
Hoyer said Catholicism has had a role in health care, reaching far back into history. She said monasteries provided health care long before hospi­tals were established. More recently, she added, teachers and sisters of the Holy Cross from Saint Mary's College have volunteered as nurses in the Navy. 
Linking healthcare to today, Hoyler said one in six people who enter a hospital are cared for in a Catholic hospital. 
Hoyer narrowed today's debate to a couple of topics ­delivery and access to health care and who funds health insurance. 
She said 4 7 to 50 million people in the United States do not have health insurance. 
According to Hoyer, since many people don't have access 
to preventative care, they do not go to the hospital until their conditions become criti­cal. By then, she said, provid­ing care will cost more than it would have if preventative options were available. 
She said the Catholic Church holds that healthcare is a right, not a commodity. 
Hoyer said The Catholic Health Association has six principles underlying their position on health care: human dignity, concern for the poor and vulnerable, jus­tice, the common good, stew­ardship and pluralism. 
The principle of the common good is the realization that the health and well being of the individual is largely depen­dant on the health and well being of the community, she said. Also, she said pluralism is the encouragement of both the public and private sectors to become involved in health­care. 
Hoyler explained how these principles could translate into a health care system. She said health care should be afford­able for everyone, oriented toward prevention, fairly financed and designed for quality. 
Brooke Druktenis, a senior Saint Mary's nursing student, said it is important to stress healthcare for all at all ages. She said her focus was on "preventative care instead of intervention care for the here and now." 
We have a moral responsi­bility to express our views on healthcare, Hoyler said. 
Contact Caidin Houseley at chouselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
faced by NASCAR's market­ing employees and sponsors every day. 
John Crowder, a senior economics and computer applications major, said, "I got involved with the pro-
everyday racing fan will also appreciate getting a rare look at the inner workings of NASCAR," Durkes said. 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 
*•Elkhart H!9 WCounty Rd. 6, On fmn! ofWal·Mitrtl, i574,lb2·J5 HI .&S<'?rvido En Espaiiol *•Goshen 4361\ Ukha11 RoJd, fOfi Hwy .3:1. near Mt•ijen, \574\ 87.5-'nl7 *Open Sumli!y 
*Mishawaka 417() C<,lpt' Rd.. !$74i 252-1328 @RadioShack. ~mubile hh~regg 
*Mishawaka/Soufh Bend University I'Jrk Mall, !located in the F·uod Court 
!574• N.J-8069 

fv< '"'"'mali<><> <mum..~ A:!"&T 8enien Springs I(l':l W. fl.'rry St i)6'l) 4.7J-Tl28 
P<Wu<1< <·~It 1-fl(l(l-fil J.'H10 

·AT&T impGses; a Regul.atory Cost Recovery Chargli! of up to $1.25 to help defray co$ts incurred in complying with obligations aml cha19es impMed by State and federal telecam regulations; State and H!deral Unilten>.a! Service charges; and surcharges for government assessments on AT&l These fees are rwttaxes or government·required dmrges, 
3G not avaiL1ble in ail ~mas. fmerag~ isnet avai!alll~ in a!t areas. )ee w~erage map at sior~> lor d~lails. Umited4ime r;ffef. OihH wndr!ions &reslri(b!lns dpp!y Sei wntrad &lilt€ !llan brucl1ure !N de!aiis..Suhsdbet must !i\'e &have amailing ~drl1. willlin 1\l&l\OltJMd wimiess n0V.'Otk cow1Jg~ Jfi'o Up lo $36 3ctil!. !!;~ appH~s. Equipment Ill!«' & Mail l!k1J wry by mrk &may nm be <wai!eb!e hom im!~pemJen! H?tail~.>!~. Earty TermiM!lon Fee: None II tanceU!Xl in Hw ii1~ 30 \lay~ nut up to $J:l r~slocking l~e moy op;l!y tu equipm<:nl Whim\ 1h!'reafter up to $115. Some ag~nts impose addl te..s. AT&T P1omotion Card: USBCunnect Me~tury price belore AT&T Promotion Card, Data0Jnnea plan&. willl2·YNlf tonti<Kl ism9.99. Minimum $60 !lataConnect pl~n reqtiir!Xl. A!lnw 6Q days lot ful!fttment card may be used only in the U.S. &Is valid lor 120 days after imwnred,;!e but iS not rerl~emable for rash &cannothe uS!'d fm cash wilMrawa! at AlMs mautomated gawUne pumps. Card request must bepaMmar«etJ !!y t:liilll/00 &you mw;t be at\JStomer lor 3G tonsHuti%daysro ret~ve tard. Sales tax ca\culated ba5e!l on prit~ of unattlvated ~quipmwr Oati!Connect plan i> not unlimited &sub%lat\1lal dBrges may oolm:ur~ ifindU(ll:d allowarK~ is e~te!Xled. <C2009 AT&T lnlelle<roat PtQ]l~rl)', S~:rvke pn.Mdw tJy AI&T Mob!llty AU righlt WM>rved. Ai!H th~ Al&l logo, aml aU other m~rks wn!ilinPd he1ein are tfadroJarks of AT&T !ntelteuual ko~ny and/01 AT&l affiliated companies. All otlwr marks contained hl?rein are tile p1opertyo! 1neir re~fw owners. 
-~--------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 8, 2009 
SMC receives grant frotn 




U.S. Justice Deparbnent 
By AVA LEE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College received a three-year, $299,893 grant from the U.S. Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women in time for October's Domestic Violence Awareness Month to create an on-campus program educating students about sex­ual violence. 
"At Saint Mary's College, we educate our students to make a difference in the world. That preparation must include edu­cation on how women can protect themselves from becoming a victim of violence, and how to deal with the aftermath of an assault," Vice President for Student Affairs Karen Johnson said. "Our expectation is this on-campus program will serve as a model for other colleges, women's or otherwise." 
Although Saint Mary's College crime statistics are "very low," according to a College press release, the pro­gram takes into account the high prevalence of sexual assault among college women -one in six women is sexual­ly assaulted during their life­time and college students are four times as likely to be vic­tims. 
In order to ensure the effec­tiveness of this program, Saint Mary's College will cooperate with S-0-S of Madison Center, the Family Justice Center of St. Joseph County, the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office, the prosecutor office's Special Victims Unit and the St. Joseph County Police Department, the press release said. 
According to the press release, the project aims to achieve seven goals: To create a Saint Mary's College Coordinated Community Response Team, to establish a mandatory education program for incoming students, to enhance the College's training program for campus security, to provide the campus with disciplinary boards for appro­priate training, to provide the College community with increased educa-tiPnal oppor­tunities, to enhance the victim services available to Saint Mary's College students and to enhance the security on cam­pus. 
In addition to cooperating with numerous offices on campus, Saint Mary's College will also coordinate with organization from outside the campus, Johnson said, and plans to hire an assistant director for the program. 
The government grant will be an important step to assure increased safety and security on campus and in the local community, Johnson said. 
Contact Ava Lee at jlee32@nd.edu 


NDSP offers self-defense class 
prevention," she said. "And
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
then the rest of the class is 
News Writer 
focused on physical tech­
nique. 

Notre Dame Security The classes focus on repe­Police {NDSP) began offer­titions of the techniques to ing monthly make them women's self-instinctive, defense classes Shibata said. aimed at rape 'The goal was [to One course prevention this was offered
offer a class] every 
semester, as in September,
other month but 
part of the and the first nation-wide because there was so session of the R a p e October class
much interest we've 
Aggression began on
done it every month. " 
Defense (HAD) Monday program, NDSP evening. crime preven-Keri Kei Shibata Shibata said tion officer the class
NDSP crime prevention
Keri Kei planned for

officer
Shibata said. 
RAD classes were offered previously by request for groups of women, such as dorms or student groups, a few times a year. The class­es were not otherwise scheduled because there was not enough interest to justify the cost, Shibata said. 
But this year, NDSP got new instructors for the RAD program and began to schedule classes open to all female students, faculty and staff. 
"The goal was Lto offer a class! every other month but because there was so much interest we've done it every month," she said. 
The course is 12 hours and is usually broken into four, three-hour sessions. The first two classes offered this semester have been on Monday and Wednesday evenings for two weeks, Shibata said. 
"The first class is mostly focused on awareness and 
November wi II be held on Tuesday 
and Thursday evenings, and is already filled. 
"We're just trying to mix the scheduling up so people can take it with the varying schedules," she said. 
A minimurn of 12 partici­pants is required to hold a class, 


~WON TICKIT BtNHIT~:  
' ~WON TICKfn ill ONlY ~~0 fOR 14 HOMf GAM~~ AND JrLAYOff GAM~~' WHilE ~CHOOL I~ IN ~E~~ION!  
'  DON'T MI~~ OUT!  

IN 100~~0~, 7)% Of Tm GAM~~ ~OLD OUT! GUARANTHD ~MT~ FOR PRfMIUM GAMt~: 
II
.. 
1'1 
'' 
Although she said she does not think the amount of crime itself has increased, Shibata said awareness about crime in the Notre Dame and South Bend area has risen. 
"In the last couple years there's been a lot of aware­ness and attention on crime in the area," she said. 
This attention may have contributed to the interest in the HAD class this year, Shibata said. 
NDSP has also received positive feedback from par­ticipants and hopes to con­tinue to expand HAD class­es, she said. 
"People have been very positive and felt like they've learned a lot," Shibata said. "One good thing about RAD is there's a come back and practice clause." 
With this clause, past par­ticipants can attend a RAD class offered anywhere in the country to relearn and practice their skills. 
In the 
future, 
Shibata said 

and there is  a  "In the last couple  the classes at  
maximum of 20 women in each class, Shibata said.  years there's been a lot ofawareness and attention on crime in  Notre Dame may expand to include the HAD program  
Participants  the area."  for men.  
pay  a  fee  of  Although the  
$5  to  cover  scheduled  
the cost of the  Keri Kei Shibata  classes  are  
textbooks.  NDSP crime prevention  already filled,  
T  h  e  officer  interested  
September  women  can  
class  was  contact  
filled  with  Shibata  

mostly faculty and staff, through NDSP to receive Shibata said, although the advance notice about the October and November next class offering. classes are roughly half stu­dents and half faculty and Contact Laura McCrystal at staff. lmccryst@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 8, 2009 CoMPU.ED FROMTHE OnsERVER:'s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Argentinian astronomer dies 
BUENOS AIRES -Pedro Elias Zadunaisky, an Argentine astronomer and mathematician whose calculations helped determine the orbit of Saturn's outermost moon, Phoebe, as well as Halley's Comet, died Wednesday. He was 91. 
Zadunaisky was a pioneer in celestial mechanics, applying mathematical models to determine how gravity and other forces alter the orbits of other objects in the solar system. 
Zadunaisky also was a Senior Astronomer at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and in the 1960s researched the orbits of celestial bodies at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, calculating the orbits of the first U.S. Earth satellite, Explorer I, as well as other satellites during the U.S. space race against Russia. 
7.8 magnitude quake strikes 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand-A powerful magnitude 7.8 earthquake rocked the South Pacific near the Vanuatu archipelago, the 
U.S. Geological Survey reported, triggering a regional tsunami alert. 
The quake struck Thursday 183 miles (294 kilometers) northwest of the Vanuatu island of Santo, and 354 miles (596 kilometers) northwest of the capital of Port Vila, at a depth of 21 miles (35 kilometers). 
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center imme­diately issued a regional tsunami warning. 
There were no immediate reports of injury or damage from officials in Vanuatu, a col­lection of nearly 200 islands. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Woman settles spinach lawsuit 
SALINAS, Calif. -An 85-year-old woman who fell sick after eating E. coli-tainted spinach during a nationwide outbreak three years ago has settled her lawsuit against California growers and shippers. 
Jane Majeska of Fond du Lac, Wis., was hospitalized with hemolytic uremic syn­drome and depended on a feeding tube and ventilator for survival after eating Dole pack­aged spinach in August 2006. 
The outbreak killed three people, sickened 200 and cost the industry $80 million in lost sales. 
Her lawsuit filed last month sought unspecified damages from Dole, Natural Selection Foods, Mission Organics and Pick 'n Save for her pain and suffering. 
Attorneys said she spent a half-million dol­lars in hospital and doctor bills. 
Man pleads guilty to hwnan trafficking 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -A Moldovan, one of 12 people charged in a massive racketeering scheme, pleaded guilty Wednesday in federal court to one count of forced labor trafficking, and agreed to cooperate with the govern­ment. 
Alexandru Frumusache admitted in a plea bargain that he had aided and abetted an operation in which foreigners were provided with temporary work visas then fanned out to housekeeping jobs in 14 states. 
Frumusache (pronounced froo-moo-SAHK­ee) admitted that he worked as a secretary for Giant Labor Solutions, a Kansas City­based labor-leasing company, and drove workers to various places, including Alabama, in violation of the work visas they had received. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Former officers sentenced to jail 
HAMMOND, Ind. -A former St. Joseph County police officer accused with two other lawmen of selling stolen items and drugs has been sentenced to 42 months in federal prison. 
Ryan Huston pleaded guilty in 2007 to aid­ing and abetting wire fraud and conspiracy to possess cocaine with intent to distribute the drug. The sentence he received Wednesday includes three months of super­vised release. 
Huston's co-defendants, former county offi­cer Andrew Taghon and former South Bend police officer Jamie Buford, pleaded guilty to similar charges in 2007. 
HAITI 


Carter seeks to boost Malaria fight 
Former U.S. president urges Carribean leaders to join efforts against the disease 
Associated Press 

OUANAMINTHE­Former President Jimmy Carter traveled to Hispaniola on Wednesday to meet political leaders health workers and malaria victims in hopes of jump­starting efforts to eradicate the disease in the Caribbean. 
The battle against the mosquito-borne disease in the Dominican Republic and neighboring Haiti has been frustrating, with health officials complaining of a lack of cooperation between both country's governments. 
Carter said on his visit to Ounaminthe and to Dajabon in the Dominican, just across a river border separating the two coun­tries, that he hopes to expand a $200,000 pilot project established in those towns by the nonprofit Carter Center to curb malaria's spread. 
The project's funding runs out early next year, but Carter said he hopes governments, nonprofit health groups and private foundations will pick up the tab for a broader effort. 
"One of the most impor­tant developments has been the new cooperation between the two coun­would be needed to wipe would also eliminate the fetid ditches and gullies of tries," Carter said while out lymphatic filariasis, threat that it could spread standing water. touring a Haitian hospital another painful illness car­to nearby islands, includ­In the Dominican that treats many malaria ried by mosquitoes that can ing Jamaica and the Republic, for one, health victims. "And for the first swell limbs to grotesque Bahamas. workers journey each night time in history, they are proportions. "We want to help both to a foul-smelling farm in targeting the complete That price tag may seem sides raise their sights up La Bomba, a Dajabon elimination of the disease daunting, particularly in from the day-to-day battle," neighborhood with the instead of just treating sick Haiti, the poorest country said Dr. Don Hopkins, the highest infection rates, and people." in the Western Hemisphere. director of the Carter test captured mosquitoes 
An estimated 30,000 peo­But Carter, who was quick­Center's health programs. for the disease. ple in Haiti and several ly surrounded at each stop The Atlanta-based cen­Across the border in thousand more across the by dozens of Haitians and ter's project distributes nets Haiti, residents of the slums border suffer each year Dominicans seeking a treated with insecticide to on the outskirts of from malaria, which causes glimpse of him, said the drape over beds, micro­Ouanaminthe greet health high fevers and flu-like costs to eradicate the dis­scopes to help lab techni­worker Jovind Fritzner as symptoms that kills more ease pale in comparison to cians and motorbikes so he makes his rounds, than one million people pricier health initiatives in field workers can zip repeating verbatim his each year, mostly in Africa. wealthier nations. through cramped alleys to radio warnings on the dan­
Health officials say a 10-"A tiny bit of money can test and treat residents. gers of malaria. They kid year, Haiti-wide program to completely eradicate these It also helps bolster him about when he'll eliminate malaria by 2020 diseases," he said. efforts in both countries to return with heavy equip­would likely cost $200 mil­Ridding this corner of track, contain and treat a ment to wipe out mosquito lion. Another $50 million the world of the disease disease that spreads from breeding sites. 

ITALY 

Court overturns Berlusconi' s immunity 
The billionaire businessman­Berlusconi, 73, continues to be 
turned-politician dismissed any sug­widely popular in Italy, despite accu­
ROME -Prime Minister Silvio gestion of resignation, and his conser­sations from his wife that he has had Berlusconi vowed to stay on and "go vative allies, who dominate parlia­inappropriate relationships with far forward" Wednesday after an Italian ment, quickly rallied to his support. younger women and allegations from court struck down a law granting him "Nothing will happen, we will go a self-described call girl that he spent immunity from prosecution and forward," the premier told reporters a night with her. The scandal erupted allowed trials for corruption and tax in front of his residence in Rome. in the spring after his wife announced fraud to resume in Milan. There were "The trials they will hurl at me in she was divorcing him. immediate calls for his resignation. Milan are real farces," he said. "I will Berlusconi says he is "no saint" but 
The decision by the Constitutional detract some hours from taking care has denied ever paying anyone for sex Court dealt Berlusconi one of the of the government to go there and or having any improper relationships. most serious blows in his 15-year­show them to be liars." The law overturned Wednesday was long battle with the Italian judiciary. The ever-combative premier said he pushed through by Berlusconi's con­It handed prosecutors another chance felt "invigorated" by the challenge servative coalition in 2008 when he to ask for his conviction and added to and ended his brief statement by faced separate trials in Milan for cor­a list of problems that already includes shouting "Long live Italy! Long live ruption and tax fraud tied to his a headline-grabbing sex scandal. Berlusconi!" Mediaset broadcasting empire. 
Associated Press 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 8, 2009 
STUDENT SENATE 


Senate to present on 



off-can1pus 

safety 
Observer Staff Report 
Student Senate unanimous­ly approved the topic for stu­dent government's presenta­tion to the Board of Trustees, which will take place next Thursday. Student govern­ment will present on the issue of off-campus safety. 
The goal of the presenta­tion is to inform the Board of Trustees about how off-cam­pus safety concerns are affecting Notre Dame stu­dents, and to ask for help with an issue that is beyond the scope student govern­ment's resources. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said she plans to tell the Board that off­campus safety is an issue for students and to show the Board members research on possible long-term and short­term solutions. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt, Weber and chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin will represent student government in the meeting next week. 

Move 
continued from page 1 
Senior Don Whitley agreed, adding he was happy com­mencement will be held in a place as historic as Notre Dame Stadium. 
"I think that it is really cool that we will be able to incorpo­rate Notre Dame Stadium and its history into Commencement, but it will be pretty rough if it rains," he said. 
Commencement will be held in the morning on the third Sunday in May, while the undergraduate diploma cere­monies will be held later "in each college and school in the afternoon," Jenkins said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

that," Powers said. 
Powers also said he gained

Soccer 
knowledge about where the continued from page 1 United States is in relation to the world's top soccer teams. "The U.S. has a long way to Senior High School in 2009. go in terms of catching up with 
Powers got the chance to the rest of the soccer nations," play in the Under-20 World Powers said. "We're still in the Cup when the team's coach developing process." saw him play for the Under-18 Of all the places he has visit­National Team. He was given a ed, Powers said his favorite tryout and was cho-was Portugal. He sen to go on a train-also enjoyed seeing ing trip to Egypt See Also the pyramids and with the team in Powers and Irish sphinx during his June. He was then time in Egypt. 
men's soccer
invited to the next "My favorite place trip in Argentina victorious over would probably be and was chosen to Golden Eagles Portugal," Powers 
be on the team. 
The team went to a 10-day training camp in Cyprus, Greece, where they played two scrim­mage games, one versus Trinidad and Tobago and one versus Australia, both of which they won. 
After Cyprus came a trip to Cairo, Egypt for the opening rounds of the World Cup. Powers' team played games vs. Cameroon, Germany and Korea. Since the only team they beat was Cameroon, they did not advance to the next round. 
"We ended up not advancing and it was a disappointing experience for us but a good experience for me because I can still learn from it," Powers said. 
Powers said he would be eli­gible to play again during the next World Cup, so he is glad he has already had the chance to play on the international stage. 
"Being on the world stage can be a little overwhelming, so it was good to experience 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
ticketing at Saint Mary's College." 
Patrons still have the option to buy tickets at the box office either in person or by phone Monday through Friday from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Tickets can also be purchased at the door one hour prior to the start of the show. 
Selleck said she hopes the online system will shorten lines the night of performances. 
"Typically we have a large walk-up," she said. "In addition, many of the students attending the performance will arrive only 10 minutes prior to cur-
said. "It was just a page 24 really nice environ­
ment and we got to sit on the beach so that was fun." 
This experience forced Powers to miss three weeks of class and part of his freshman soccer season at Notre Dame. He said his professors were fairly understanding about the situation. 
"I missed three weeks, it was pretty tough. I had to make sure [my professors] were okay with it and see if they'd work with me," Powers said. "In the end it worked out pretty good." 
In addition to catching up on homework, Powers will catch up on Irish soccer as well when he returns to the team to finish the season. 
"They have a great team this year so it's kind of an exciting time," Powers said. "We have a high-caliber team so we know we can do a lot this year." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
tain, which causes us to be very swamped. My hope is that stu­dents will utilize the online sys­tem to purchase and print their tickets ahead of time, which in turn will alleviate lines at the box office prior to the show." 
Feedback so far has been positive, Selleck said. 
"I haven't received a lot of personal feedback yet," she said. ''I've heard from a few people that think the system is very easy to use and liked it." 
The system is ready for use, and the arts center has already sold several tickets online. 
To purchase tickets visit the Moreau Center of the Arts Web site MoreauCenter.com and click on "Purchase Tickets Now." 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Sch01idt 
continued from page 1 
areas," Schmidt said. "Students will and should feel free to visit, experience and at some point possibly live off campus." 
Schmidt said the student body has the impression that burgla­ries and assaults increased this year. 
This is not necessarily correct, he said, and even though steps have been taken in the right direction, safety it is still a press­ing concern for students and the University. 
Schmidt said an off-campus Web site, which highlights important features of living and traveling off campus, was creat­ed this year. The University also donated $5.5 million to the sur­rounding areas of South Bend and created a new position for student government relations. 
Student government is also in the process of working with TRANSPO to create a program to provide free transportation on and off campus. The main goal of the program is safety, Schmidt said. 
"With the close proximity of most destinations in the area, it is often way too easy for stu­dents to walk home. Taxis are not always the best option for students in certain situations," he said. 
The program was not yet approved, he said. 
"We must continue to work towards solutions to decrease the problems off campus," he said. "There is no easy answer. Every solution that we come up with of course has its conse­quences." 
Schmidt said student govern­ment will continue to look into suggestions, such as surveillance and an increased police force in student areas. Federal and local grants could also be used to help support additional officers who would travel by foot or bike in at-risk areas of South Bend. 
He said student government will continue to look to Notre Dame Security Police tor support while also considering expand­ing their presence off campus. 
Schmidt, student body vice president Cynthia Weber and chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin will present to the Board of Trustees about off-campus safe­ty next Thursday. 
Schmidt called for students to be proactive in order to lower crimes. 
"We absolutely mu'it be aware of our surroundings. We must lock our doors. We must utilize security systems. Call the police if you're concerned. Keep valu­able items out of sight," he said. 
"I know you hear them time in and time out, but we must be the leaders who work towards preventing these problems," Schmidt said. 
Schmidt congratulated the student body and the University for the progress made and encouraged them to increase safety. 
"Let's harness the progress that we have made so far and continue to create welcoming environments for students and community members," he said. 
Schmidt closed his speech by encouraging students to get fired up for the football game against USC. 
'This is an opportunity for you as student leaders, and us as a student body, to truly enjoy what football means to this communi­ty. It's more than brats, hard hits and push ups," he said. "It goes back to the 'We are NO' chant. 
"After the game next Saturday, your voice should be gone. You should be absolutely exhausted, you should smell dis­gusting," he said. "You should and will be a proud Notre Dame fan." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

recycle 

lJifl,mll•cratic Process, 
Eoviromnental Management participate. Fo,-more information vi:slt: kel1ogg.nd.edu/:students/fiPSENA 
Sites offered at. the Universite de Montreal (Fnmc.h requited). University of British Columbia (Euglisll speaking}, El Colegio de Mexico (Spanish required). and Universidad de Las Americas Puebla (Spanish required). 

Thursday, October 8, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 9,725.58 -5.67 
Up; Same; Down: Composite Volume; 1,970 159 1,688 605,112,893 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) -0.64 -0.03 4.64 E*TRADE FIN CORP (ETFC) ·0.59 -0.01 1.69 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.27 +0.29 105.80 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) +2.06 +0.35 17.35 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.25 -0.073 3.18 13-WEEK BILL -14.29 -0.01 0.06 30-YEAR BOND -1.63 -0.066 3.99 5-YEAR NOTE ·3.35 -0.075 2.16 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) ·1.31 69.57 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.70 1,044.4 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.00 82.40 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 88.3750 EURO 1.4737 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0565 BRITISH POUND 1.5997 


IN BRIEF 
Pool hall challenges smoking ban 
OMAHA, Neb. -An Omaha pool hall owner has renewed his legal challenge of the state's smoking ban by filing a revised complaint in Lancaster County District Court arguing the ban is unconstitutional. 
The statewide smoking ban that took effect June 1 includes exemptions for cigar bars, some hotel rooms, tobacco-only retailers, facilities that research the health effects of smoking, and private residences. 
Big John's Billiards argues in the complaint that the exceptions to the ban are unfair and should make the ban unconstitutional. And Will Prout, the pool hall owner, argues that the ban hurts his businesses because his cus­tomers want to be able to smoke while shoot­ing pool. 
Big John's attorney Ted Boecker wrote that the exceptions grant a special privilege to exempt businesses, and that's not allowed under the state constitution's equal protection clause. 
Mines recieve safety warnings CHARLESTON, W.Va.-The operators of 10 
U.S. mines, including the largest private-sec­tor coal company in the world, have been warned they must improve health and safety conditions or face stricter enforcement and penalties, the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration said Wednesday. 
Half the mines are in West Virginia, the nation's second-largest coal producer. One is a lead and zinc mine in Missouri and the rest are coal operations in Kentucky, Indiana and Virginia. 
Inspectors found high levels of violations that could cause serious injuries or illnesses at each of the operations, MSHA said. For instance, Massey Energy Co.'s Tiller No. 1 underground mine in Virginia received cita­tions for serious violations at 222 percent of the national average, according to MSHA. 
The agency hopes the notification will encourage the operators to make improve­ments, MSHA deputy director Gregory Wagner said in a statement. MSHA didn't identify spe­cific violations in the letters, giving only num­bers and rates of violations. 
MSHA has issued similar warnings four times since June 2007. 






USINESS 
page 7 

Judgesets deadlineforGoogleBooks 
Company and authors' lawyers have until early November to reach a new deal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A federal judge set a Nov. 9 deadline Wednesday for submission of a revised agreement in the battle over Google Inc.'s effort to get digital rights to millions of out-of­print books. Then the debate over the fairness of the plan will resume. 
U.S. District Judge Denny Chin set the deadline after a lawyer for authors told the judge that Google and lawyers for authors and publishers were working around the clock to reach a new deal by early November. 
The $1'25 million agree­ment was being renegotiat­ed after it was heavily crit­icized by many of the more than 400 submissions Chin received prior to a fairness hearing originally sched­uled for Wednesday. 
The biggest blow came in papers filed last month by the Justice Department, which said the deal "raises significant legal concerns." The agency wrote that it was likely to conclude the agreement breaks federal antitrust law. 

The Justice Department also said that the deal could decrease competition among U.S. publishers and drive up prices for con­deal to make it acceptable ations break down and no nonprofit organizations, sumers because Google to the Justice Department. deal is reached. said the deadline for a new might gain a monopoly on William F. Cavanaugh, a Google lawyer Daralyn agreement was too soon. out-of-print books that are deputy assistant attorney Durie reassured the judge, "Any revisions to the set­protected by copyright but general, told the judge that saying: "The parties' tlement that would resolve whose writers' where­the government has been expectation is we will be the flaws identified by the abouts are unknown. in continuing discussions able to reach agreement." Department of Justice and 
The head of the U.S. with the parties. Chin did not set dead­other objectors must be Copyright Office testified in a However, he said the lines for when objections fundamental in scope," House Judiciary Committee government was not yet will be required to be sub­organization co-founder last month that parts of the aware of what the final mitted but said he expect­Peter Brantley said in a agreement were "fundamen­deal will look like. ed he will only allow objec­statement. "This is not the tally at odds with the law." He said he expected tions to any new provi­time for shortcuts." 
The original deal was "meetings in the near term sions, since core features The group also criticized announced by Mountain to go over whatever their of the agreement are what it called "secret, back View, Calif.-based Google proposal is." expected to remain intact. room negotiations" that and the publishing industry Cavanaugh asked that "Everyone has a pretty exclude those who have last October to resolve two the judge give the govern­good idea what's on the voiced objections. copyright lawsuits contest­ment a week to 10 days table," he said. "Targeting After the Justice ing the book scanning after any deadline for the changes, I think, is the Department said it proba­plans. objections to be submitted right way to do it." bly violates antitrust law. 
Michael Boni, a lawyer for the Justice Department The Open Book Alliance, plaintiffs including The for authors, told the judge to prepare its analysis of which includes Microsoft Authors Guild and the Wednesday that the new the new deal. Corp., Yahoo Inc., Internet Association of American agreement would contain At one point, Chin asked bookseller Amazon.com Publishers began renegoti­amendments to the original what will happen if negoti-Inc., other companies and ating with Google. 


Regulators do notplaceban on shipments 
"Enforcement of inadequate regula­Angeles dropped a "personal electron­
Associated Press tions still produces inadequate safety. ic device," which then caught fire. WASHINGTON -Federal regula­We still stand behind our call for a On Aug. 25, Federal Express work­tors have turned down a request by a temporary ban until new regulations ers discovered a "burning and smok­pilots union to ban air shipments of are adopted and enforced," said John ing package" at its Medford, Mass., lithium batteries despite three new Prater, the union's president. facility. The package containing GPS incidents in which battery shipments The union in August sent a letter to devices was to be shipped by air to caught fire. Cynthia Douglass, the safety adminis­Seattle. Workers cut open the pack­Instead, the Pipeline and tration's acting deputy administrator, age but were unable to put out the Hazardous Materials Safety calling for a ban. The union said it fire using a fire extinguisher. Administration sent a warning was alarmed by an increase in inci­Firefighters were called in. Wednesday to cargo shippers that dents in which shipments containing On Aug. 15, United Parcel Service's the government intends to step up the batteries caught fire. If a battery airline hub in Taiwan discovered a enforcement of hazardous materials short-circuits, it can catch fire and smoldering package of batteries sent regulations, especially those that ignite other batteries. by a shipper in Macau, China. apply to lithium batteries and devices Since the union sent its letter, three Since 1991, more than 40 air containing the batteries. new incidents involving the batteries transport-related incidents involving The Air Line Pilots Association have been reported to the Federal lithium batteries and devices pow­International, the world's largest Aviation Administration: ered by lithium batteries have been pilots union, said increased enforce­On Sept. 9, a passenger on an identified, the safety administration ment won't go nearly far enough. American Airlines flight to Los said. 
..------------­page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 8, 2009 

COSPONSORED B'r"' THE GENDER RELATIONS CENTER, FEMINIST VOICE, SNITE MVSEVM OF ART, STVDENT. GOVERNMENT AND UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 


FREE YOGA 
LaFortune Ballroom; 6:45-7:30 pm 
Rec Sports instructor and mats provided 

RESOURCE TABLES During the lunch hour in LaFortune and the dining halls 
COFFEEHOUSE AND OPEN MIC 

Reekers; 8:00-9:30 pm 

., A celebration of loving our bodies, through creative writing and literary readings by students and faculty ~ 5 minute slots available for the reading of pieces about positive body image or that inspire positive body image (self-authored or by another perso 
• 
Extra poems and short story excerpts will be on hand, if the mood strikes 

• 
Organized by Sami Schalk, M.. F..A. candidate in Creative Writing 

• 
Refreshments will be provided 



Thursday, October 8, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Pot legalization gairung Inoinenhnn 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Marijuana advocates are gath­ering signatures to get at least three pot-legalization meas­ures on the ballot in 2010 in California, setting up what could be a groundbreaking clash with the federal govern­ment over U.S. drug policy. 
At least one poll shows vot­ers would support lifting the pot prohibition, which would make the state of 40 million the first in the nation to legal­ize marijuana. 
Such action would also send the state into a headlong con­flict with the U.S. government while raising questions about how federal law enforcement could enforce its drug laws in the face of a massive govern­ment-sanctioned pot industry. 
The state already has a thriving marijuana trade, thanks to a first-of-its-kind 1996 ballot measure that allowed people to smoke pot for medical purposes. But full legalization could turn med­ical marijuana dispensaries into all-purpose pot stores, and the open sale of joints could become commonplace on mom-and-pop liquor store counters in liberal locales like Oakland and Santa Cruz. 
Under federal law, marijua­na is illegal, period. After overseeing a series of raids that destroyed more than 300,000 marijuana plants in California's Sierra Nevada foothills this summer, federal drug czar Gil Kerlikowske proclaimed, "Legalization is not in the president's vocabu­lary, and it's not in mine." 
The U.S. Supreme Court also has ruled that federal law enforcement agents have the right to crack down even on marijuana users and distribu­tors who are in compliance with California's medical mar­ijuana law. 
But some legal scholars and policy analysts say the govern­ment will not be able to require California to help in enforcing the federal marijua­na ban if the state legalizes the drug. 
Without assistance from the state's legions of narcotics officers, they say, federal agents could do little to curb marijuana in California. 
"Even though that federal ban is still in place and the federal government can enforce it, it doesn't mean the states have to follow suit," said Robert Mikos, a Vanderbilt University law pro­fessor who recently published a paper about the issue. 
Nothing can stop federal anti-drug agents from making marijuana arrests, even if Californians legalize pot, he said. However, the U.S. gov­ernment cannot pass a law requiring local and state police, sheriff's departments or state narcotics enforcers to help. 
That is significant, because nearly all arrests for marijua­na crimes are made at the state level. Of more than 847,000 marijuana-related arrests in 2008, for example, just over 6,300 suspects were booked by federal law enforcement, or fewer than 1 percent. 
State marijuana bans have allowed the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration to focus on big cases, said Rosalie Pacula, director of drug policy research at the Rand Corp. 
"It's only something the feds are going to be concerned about if you're growing tons of pot," Pacula said. For any­thing less, she said, "they don't have the resources to waste on it." 
In a typical recent prosecu­tion, 29-year-old Luke Scarmazzo was sentenced to nearly 22 years and co-defen­dant Ricardo Ruiz Montes to 20 years in federal prison for drug trafficking through a medical marijuana dispensary in Modesto. 
At his bond hearing, prose­cutors showed a rap video in which Scarmazzo boasts about his successful marijuana busi­ness, taunts federal authori­ties and carries cardboard boxes filled with cash. The DEA said the pair made more than $4.5 million in marijuana sales in less than two years. 
The DEA would not specu­late on the effects of any deci­sion by California to legalize pot. "Marijuana is illegal under federal law and DEA will continue to attack large­scale drug trafficking organi­zations at every level," spokeswoman Dawn Dearden said. 
The most conservative of the three ballot measures would only legalize possession of up to one ounce of pot for per­sonal use by adults 21 and older -an amount that already under state law can only result at most in a $100 fine. 
The proposal would also allow anyone to grow a plot of marijuana up to 5 feet-by-5 feet on their private property. The size, Pacula said, seems specifically designed to keep the total number of plants grown below 100, the thresh­old for DEA attention. 
The greatest potential for conflict with the U.S. govern­ment would likely come from the provision that would give local governments the power to decide city-by-city whether to allow pot sales. 
Hundreds of medical mari­juana dispensaries across the state already operate openly with only modest federal interference. If recreational marijuana became legal, these businesses could operate without requiring their cus­tomers to qualify as patients. 
Any business that grew big­ger than the already typical storefront shops, however, would probably be too tempt­ing a target for federal prose­cution, experts said. 
Even if Washington could no longer count on California to keep pot off its own streets, Congress or the Obama administration could try to coerce cooperation by with­holding federal funds. 

Bank robber's guns, letters to beauctioned 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -In a letter from jail, John Dillinger tells his father he knows he's been a disappointment but also assures him that he's "not guilty of half of the things I am charged with and I've never hurt anyone." 
The letter written in neat cur­sive dated Sept. 29, 1933 ­about two weeks before a group of friends broke him out of the Lima, Ohio, jail, killing the sheriff in the process -is among a dozen artifacts from the famed Depression-era bank robber that Heritage Auction Galleries will offer in December. 
Dennis Lowe, director of arms and militaria at Heritage, said that the collection of Dillinger items, which he expects to sell for $600,000 to $800,000, are significant because they come from Dillinger's family. 
The items, consigned by Dillinger's half-sister, also include three of Dillinger's firearms, a wool hunting suit in red-and-black plaid and two items he had on him when he was shot to death at the age of 31 by federal agents outside Chicago's Biograph Theater on July 22, 1934: a pocket watch and a dollar bill with his blood on it. 
The auction also will feature a wooden gun that Dillinger's relatives believe he used to escape from an Indiana jail, though an Indiana museum says it has the real wooden gun. 
Mike Thompson, Dillinger's 55-year-old nephew of Mooresville, Ind., said that there is no mystery surrounding any of the other items as they have been in the family all this time and most have a direct link from Dillinger's father to Thompson's mother, Frances Thompson, Dillinger's last sur­viving sibling. 
Frances Thompson, 87, also of Mooresville, said the infa­mous gangster was a typical older brother, who teased her and took her to movies. 
"Like any brother, he teased me a lot. He loved to do that," said Frances Thompson, who was 12 when Dillinger was killed and subsequently accom­panied their father, a church deacon, on a lecture tour advis­ing that crime doesn't pay. 
Dillinger and his gang attract­ed a lot of publicity during a yearlong crime-spree that start­ed in 1933 that included bank robberies, shootouts, jail breaks and according to authorities, the killing of 10 people. 
During the Depression, people were losing their savings as banks were failing, so part of the public was cheering on the bank robber, said Elliott Gorn, a professor of history and American studies at Brown University who wrote "Dillinger's Wild Ride: The Year That Made America's Public Enemy Number One." 
"There's something that res­onates about this story," he said. 
Dillinger's relatives don't believe he killed anyone him­self, Mike Thompson said. 
Indeed, it was never proven that Dillinger himself killed anyone during his crime spree, Gore said. 
"Is he guilty of putting people in harm's way? Clearly. Did he shoot and kill anyone himself? That would be pretty hard to prove," Gorn said. 
A turning point in Dillinger's life seems to be the 81f2 years he spent in prison after taking his father's advice and confessing to trying to rob a grocer in Mooresville, where the family had moved when Dillinger was a teen. His accomplice pleaded not guilty, stood trial and was sentenced to two years in prison. Dillinger, who the FBI says was convicted of assault and battery with intent to rob and conspiracy to commit a felony, was released on parole in May 1933 at the age of 29. 



Israelis, American win chemistry Nobel Prize 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Two Americans and an Israeli won a Nobel Prize in chem­istry Wednesday for creating detailed blueprints of the protein-making machinery within cells, research that's being used to develop new antibiotics. 
Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, Thomas Steitz and Israeli Ada Yonath will split the $1.4 million award for their atom-by­atom description of ribo­somes. 
Yonath, 70, is only the fourth woman to win the Nobel chemistry prize and the first since 1964. 
Ribosomes are key to life. They use instructions from genes to make thousands of different proteins that con­trol what happens in the body. Many antibiotics kill bacteria by attacking their ribosomes, and the detailed descriptions by new Nobelists are being used to develop new drugs. 
The three scientists worked independently and published their results virtually simul­taneously in 2000. 
"I didn't feel it was a per­sonal competition, but it was a bit of a race." said Steitz. 69, a professor at Yale. "We were all taking separate approaches." 
Yonath told Israel Radio she didn't think her gender played a role in her Nobel win. 
"It's true that a woman hasn't won since 1964. But I don't know what that means -does it mean that I'm the best woman since then? I don't think that gender played a role here," she said. 
Yonath, the ninth Israeli to win a Nobel, works at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel. Ramakrishnan, 57, is at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge, England, where he went after working in the United States. 
Ramakrishnan said he was­n't convinced when a caller from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm told him he'd won a Nobel. 
"I thought it was an elabo­rate joke. I have friends who play practical jokes," Ramakrishnan told The Associated Press by tele­phone from his lab in Cambridge. "I complimented him on his Swedish accent." 

The academy called Yonath a "strong-willed pioneer" for starting on the quest in the 1970s, when most people thought it would be impossi­ble. She, and eventually her co-winners·, used a technique called X-ray crystallography to try to pinpoint the posi­tions of individual atoms in the ribosome. Basically, that technique involves showering the ribosome with X-rays and determining how the rays scatter. 
Steitz, like Ramakrishnan, entered the field later. 
"It seemed to us a bit like trying to climb Mount Everest," Steitz said. "We knew it was doable in princi­ple, but we didn't know actu­ally whether we were going to be able to get there, and we didn't know exactly the route through which we should travel." 
Solving the problem was "the most exhilarating moment I've had in science," he said. 
A detailed description of the ribosome is important because it gives insights into how the structure works, said Rachel Green, who stud­ies ribosomes at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore. 
"You want to know how this machine works, you want to look on the inside to see where all the parts are ... how it's put together and what the implications are of that structure for function," Green said. 
On Monday, three American scientists shared the Nobel Prize in medicine for discov­ering a key mechanism in the genetic operations of cells, an insight that has inspired new lines of research into cancer. 
The physics prize on Tuesday was split between a Hong Kong-based American scientist who helped develop fiber-optic cable and two Americans who invented the "eye" in digital cameras. 
The literature and peace prize winners will be announced later this week and the economics announce­ment is set for Monday. 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, October 8, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jadyn Espinoza CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYsTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. Edirorial comenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assist:ant Managing Edirors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers ro the Ediror must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Questions rrgarding Observupolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiifjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob=iu (USPS 599 2-4000) is pub!Uhcd Monday through Friday =p< during aam-and vu:arion pc:riods. A subsaiption ro The Obser.oer is: S120-tbrMil: academic yc:ar. S65 for ont semeucr. 
1'ht ObK:rn::r is pub1i~ at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining lUll S.:nd addtcstamccrions to: Non~ Dame,. lN 46J16-0n9 Thern..t." ~riodial postage paid 2t ~Dame P.O.B<>xm .nld additional mailing olfteb. 024 South Dining Hall 
No"" Dam<, IN 16~56-0179 
The-Olw-.JWr is .a mem.ber ofthe Aswdatcd 17m. .All reproduction rights are racrvul. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Robert Singer Michael Bryan Irena Zajickova Eric Prister Megan Loney Allan Joseph Graphics Scene Andrea Archer Alexandra Viewpoint Kilpatrick Stephanie Vossler 
Taking a stand 
As a Viewpoint columnist I often find myself compelled to address seri­ous issues that other people shy away from, it's like my job. Do I get paid to do this job? I am not even sure, I think I just do it because I like for 
Brooks Smith 
people to hear my opinions on 

Mighty
things. But this 

Morphin Power 
isn't necessarily important. Issues Columnist are important. So without further ado I plan to talk about an issue. Read on and think for yourself about this issue. 
Often in the busy 24-hour news cycle stories of real importance to real people go unreported. I am writ­ing to call attention to a crusade that has not received its fair share of media attention in The Observer, this crusade, of course, is the fight for five dollar footlongs at the Lafortune Subway. As nobody seems to be will­ing to speak up about this I have taken it upon myself to write a public protest. 
Of course in the world today there are many great struggles going on. The ongoing genocide in Darfur is one. Our continuing involvement in Iraq is another. Another one might be that we elected a president who is running our country into the ground (I'm talking to you Hussein). Also there are social issues like the high rates of sexual assault. But amidst all these issues it is easy to overlook something of real importance, namely that we are paying slightly more for a certain type of sandwich than other people do who buy the same sandwich in different places. This is a serious problem. 
It's natural that on this campus which is full of activism for various good causes something humble like sandwich prices would go overlooked. But I think it's more than just sand­wich prices, this is a question of our rights and thus something that even our Constitution talks about. Now I'm going to throw out a few interesting points to consider about the footlongs. 
You know how women get paid 76 cents for every dollar men get paid for the same work? I did the math calcu­lation and people at other Subways pay 71 cents for every dollar that we pay for footlongs, and since 76 is big­ger than 71 that means that we're worse off than women. Maybe that is fine for another university but this is Notre Dame, the finest Catholic school in the country. We're not paying $50,000 a year in tuition to be inferi­or to women! Not even women would be dumb enough to do that. 
Here's something else to consider, that I thought of when I was paying for laundry with coins. Does anyone else here have a coin bank? Well I do. You know how much money we would save if footlongs were five dollars? $1.99. That's almost eight quarters, or 19 dimes, or 39 nickels, or even a 199 pennies. That's a lot of coins to put in the coin bank! I bet I could wash my clothes with the money I saved, though I probably wouldn't have enough to dry them afterwards if r paid with coins. 
Here's another aspect of this issue to think about: food. To live, every­body needs to eat food. But if food is too expensive, how can people afford to eat it? The answer is that they can't afford to eat it, and so they won't eat it. So they'll starve. 
I guess the strongest point in favor of making footlongs at the Lafortune Subway cost five dollars is that it's a question of equal rights. The Bill of Rights guarantees everyone in America the same rights, so if we're paying slightly more for a specific type of sandwich than other people do, that's discrimination. It's like apartheid, only it's not in some far­away Third World country, it's right here in America's Heartland. And yet this grave and important issue has gone overlooked by our Observer. 
So next time you're out volunteering for an organization that fights sexual assault, or manning the suicide center crisis hotline, or participating in envi­ronmental activism, or working at a homeless shelter, keep in mind that there are bigger things out there than the little causes you work for. Jesus said "the poor you will always have with you," and that goes for all the other causes, but this cause is some­thing that affects everyone who pur­chases a footlong sandwich at the Lafortune Subway. I implore you: Fight for footlongs! 
Brooks Smith is a junior math and english major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 

What are you doing for Fall Break? 
Going home Staying at Notre Dame Going on a service trip Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A positive attitude may_ not solve all your problems, but it will annoy enough pef?ple to make it worth the effort. " 
Herm Albright German artist 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 8, 2009 page 11 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Solidarity through chastity 
While I agree with Mr. Mullen's Viewpoint letter ("Don't ask, don't tell," Oct. 7) I propose that we take his argument a step further. "DuLac" states that, "Because a genuine and complete expression oflove through sex · requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage, the University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage. Students found in violation of this policy shall be subject to dis­ciplinary suspension or permanent dismissal." 
This policy applies to all students -hetero­sexual and homosexual. It should therefore be a given that homosexual activity, like hetero­sexual activity, is not permitted at Notre Dame. However, I find it unfair to condemn homosex­ual activity without addressing the presence of heterosexual activity, most prevalent in the likewise sinful "hook-up culture,'' As Christ warns, "How dare you say to your brother, 'Please let me take that speck out of your eye,' when you have a log in your own eye? You hypocrite! First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will be able to see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye" (Matthew 7:4-5). 
Before we judge the actions of our homosex­ual brothers and sisters, let's take another look at our own. If we are to truly live our Catholic heritage, then we must stand not only against homosexual activity, but also against unchaste heterosexual activity. Let's live the CORE Council's "Spirit of Inclusion" by upholding the dignity of every member of the Notre Dame family -gay or straight-by accepting our universal call to holiness through chastity. Only then can we truly stand in solidarity. 
LindsayWilliams 
sen10r 
Lyons Hall Oct. 7 


Where is the tea? 
I was excited to read Melanie Fritz's letter ("Clause needs updating," Oct. 6) regarding Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause and its failure to address the issue of sexual ori­entation. She is certainly not the only one to have taken notice of this problem, and that is encouraging in itself. However, Notre Dame's failure to include sexual orientation in its non-discrimination clause is only the tip of the iceberg. Although the Core Council hon­orably attempts to support GLBQ students, it fails to even acknowledge transgender stu­dents as needing support. Further, the University has failed time and time again to officially support a gay-straight alliance on campus. Meanwhile, Core Council's closed membership and lack of true club status (they're a "special interest group") fails to truly meet the needs of those students strug­gling with their sexuality or gender identity. 
This heterosexism also exists in more implicit settings: The University's practice of only offering single-sex housing assumes het­erosexuality and encourages the view that heterosexuality is the "default setting" instead of just the more statistically-common orientation. This is not to say that the University isn't trying to move towards global acceptance. Certainly, the vast majority of students and faculty that I've interacted with are accepting of all people, regardless of sex­ual orientation. It's telling, though, that the University feels that sensitivity training ses­sions like CommUnity are necessary. In their current format, they presuppose homopho­bia among the student body by assuming that students need to be taught how to accept a minority group. 
Quite frankly, today's modern generation of students is far more accepting and progres­sive than the administration might like to admit. Despite generally progressive atti­tudes on campus, the total acceptance of GLBTQ students will never occur until the administration offers its full, sincere and complete support. Failing that, they could at least allow Core Council to replace that silly GLBQ acronym with something a little more open-minded and a little less ridiculous. 
Charles O'Leary freshman Knott Hall Oct. 6 


Living -with integrity 
I would like to respond to a letter called "Don't ask, don't tell," written by Sean Mullen, which I read, to my dismay, in the Oct. 7 Observer. This man believes that Notre Dame would no longer "have the right to consider ourselves a Catholic university" should its non­discrimination clause be modified to include sexual orientation amongst its proscriptions. 
As a proud, openly gay member of this University, at which hundreds of gay and les­bian students enroll, enriching this community with their abilities, their perspectives, their hopes and dreams, my initial reaction was one of anger. 
Confusion was the emotion of the hour shortly after, however, when I realized that this letter offered little in the way of sensible content. The preposterous suggestion that somehow the admissions process should be affected in any way by a person's sexuality merits not a single word to refute it; it's just like a troll commenting on a Youtube video to get a rise out of people. What is most offensive is the idea that gays and lesbians should attempt to suppress or hide their sexual orien­tation or view their capacity to love as a pathology-which is clearly the intent here, and if I may venture, in the current catecheti­cal teaching, when all is said and done. 
My fellow gay and lesbian members of the Notre Dame community, do you believe what this man has to say? Should we cease to live with integrity, to hide who we are as people, to deny that our love is as good as any other love? For surely no one will argue that love which is shamed, denied, suppressed, spit-on, denigrated -cannot fail in its potential to affect good in. Are you going to allow someone to tell you, justified by their interpretation of the will of God, that you aren't as good as they? To remain closeted creates a deep dis­connect in the soul of the person living with such a burden, and to internalize the belief that somehow the way your Creator devised you is abomination, because the world at large is heterosexual and does not often under­stand, is poison for the spirit. The wishful thinking on the part of policyrnakers in our country, our University and even in the Church -for the church is both a divine and a human institution -that a homosexual person can thrive and grow morally and spiritually while loathing a part of themselves, while mas­querading behind the lie that their love is not the simple purity they feel in their hearts ­the judge which rules correctly in all else ­but rather the blackest of sins, is simply unsupportable, insufferable. Insufferable, I deem it, in our world, and clearly, in our University, if our integrity is to be upheld. Finally, to all students of Notre Dame, the community which I have chosen, to which I contribute my studies, my views and my heart, I ask: How long will you let this go on in your midst? If you have not experienced the injus­tices faced by gays and lesbians firsthand, why not? Look deeper, listen; I have faith that you will come to the just conclusion: we are as good as you. 
Nicholas Schroeder 
JUniOr 
Morrissey Hall 
Oct. 7 


Discrimination? 
Sean Mullen (Don't ask, don't tell,'' Oct. 7), I am so glad to see that finally someone on this campus is willing to speak out honestly against homosexuality. This University has been far too accepting of those sinful sodomites for too long. Even allowing homosexual men and women to visit campus is an abomination to Catholic morality. What is next, allow­ing immigrants to teach here? Allowing students who have been ticketed for drinking, petty theft or jaywalking to register for classes? 
T_he admissions process needs a reform. The University should only accept Catholic students and there should be a questionnaire to inform the University of how many sexual partners a prospective student has had, how many illegal drugs and alcoholic beverages the student has consumed and intended visits to Hip Hop Night once admitted. And most importantly, whether or not the student was born into this world by the 
grace of God as a homosexual ­ that one is the deal breaker.  
Vehemently,  
Your Ally.  
Martha Karam  
sophomore  
Welsh Family Hall  
Oct. 7  


Unacceptable policy 
In response to Sean Mullen's letter, "Don't ask, don't tell," (Oct. 7) I would like to begin by questioning how he can possibly say he has nothing against gay people. As students at Notre Dame, I would hope that we know enough about the policy of "don't ask, don't tell" that we would never want to widen the group of people to which that policy applies. To suggest that we subject gay students at Notre Dame to the shameful, condescending and homopho­bic policy that our military unfortunately still employs is something a person who has nothing against gay people would never consider. 
Mullen's letter suggests that we use a "don't ask, don't tell" policy to avoid including gay students, staff and faculty in Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause. I sincerely hope Mullen is not implying that it is acceptable to toler­ate discrimination against members of the Notre Dame community who are openly gay. How does that fit in with the Catholic nature of our University? As a Catholic, you should respect the inherent dignity of every human being, and that means rejecting all forms of discrimination. Furthermore, being openly gay does not necessarily mean practicing homosexuality any more than being straight means that you are actively engaging in sexual activities. 
Does Mullen believe that the University should exclude unmarried sexually active heterosexuals from the non-discrimination clause as well? While I'm in no way an expert on Catholic social teachings, I believe it is your responsi­bility as a Catholic to strive to love everyone, regardless of sexuality. It is detestable to try to hide behind Catholic social teachings to justify a toler­ance of discrimination when in fact I believe it calls on you to do the oppo­site. 
Mr. Mullen, I'm horrified that you would like to force our gay friends, neighbors and classmates into the closet just because homosexttality makes you uncomfortable. 
Andrea Green jumor Ryan Hall Oct. 7 


Appalled 
I'll start by saying that I have nothing against Sean Mullen (Don't ask, don't tell,'' Oct. 7). If that's the way God made you, then that's the way you are. Let me ask you, Mr. Mullen: Have you ever masturbated? Have you or any of your friends engaged in any sort of premarital sexual activity? Ifso, then the University, by your standards, has just as much of a right to discriminate against you as it does against a sexually active homosexual. It has more of a right to discriminate against you than it does against an abstinent but open homosexual. If we delve into the personal and sexual lives of every member of the University's staff, faculty and student body and proclaim that it's accept­able to discriminate against sinners, then who is left? 
But getting to the more important point, Mr. Mullen, do you have any sort of idea what it's like to live in the closet that God and society have so lovingly fashioned for homosexuals? Do you have any idea of the amount of unneces­sary pain and suffering undertakAA by vast numbers of homosexuals because of you and others like you who think they should "keep to themselves?" You don't, and it shows. 
One of the many missions of this University is to foster growth and develop­ment not only within the realm of the Catholic Church, but within society as a whole. Notre Dame is not a seminary, and the United States is not a theocracy. You'd do well to come to terms with those facts. Your attitude is repulsive and flies in the face of common human decency. Your disgusting and narrow worldview has no place in a discussion about a non-discrimination clause. Another thing, Mr. Mullen, do not give a transparent disclaimer about how you "have nothing against" homosexuals before launching into a nonsensical dia­tribe about how homosexuals here should remain in one of the most psycho­logically damaging places that exists in our society. It insults everyone's intelli­gence and is the oldest trick in the playbook of the bigot. 
Chris Doyen 
semor 
offcampus Ocr. 7 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Thursday, October 8, 2009 
By KAITLYN CONWAY Scene Writer 
This fall, the Pasquerilla East Music Company (PEMCo.) is put­ting on a production of "Company," a Stephen Sondheim musical. The show is a series of vignettes about Robert, a man who does not want to commit to marriage but is surrounded by married friends, and how they all struggle with what they really want from life. The show pro­gresses through moments he has with his friends and three girl­friends, all tied into the central event of his 35th birthday. As Sondheim describes it, the char­acters in the musical are "mid­dle-class people with middle-class problems." 
"Company" first premiered on Broadway in April 1970 and ran for 690 performances until January 1972. The original cast was composed of Dean Jones (Robert), Barbara Barrie (Sarah), Charles Kimbrough (Harry), Merle Louise (Susan), John Cunningham (Peter), Teri Ralston (Jenny), George Coe (David), Beth Howland (Amy), Steve Elmore (Paul), Elaine Stritch (Joanne), Charles Braswell (Larry), Pamela Myers (Marta), Donna McKechnie (Kathy) and Susan Browning (April). Jones withdrew shortly after opening night, due to his ongoing divorce proceedings, and was replaced by Larry Kert (famous for his role as Tony in the original cast of "West Side Story"). He was nominated for a Tony Award for his performance as Robert. Several of the original cast (Kert, Stritch, Franz and McKechnie) reprised their roles for the London run of the show (1972). 
The original Broadway produc­tion of thn show was immensely popular, and received a great deal of critical acclaim. It won Tony Awards for Best Musical, Best Book of a Musical, Best Original Score, Best Lyrics, Best Scenic Design and Best Direction of a Musical. Browning received the Theatre World Award for her role as April, one of Robert's girl­friends. The original production also received several Drama Desk Awards: Outstanding Book of a Musical, Outstanding Lyrics, 
Outstanding 
Music, 
Outstanding 
Set Design 
a n d 
Outstanding 
Director. 
The play w e n t through sev­eral produc­tions, some small and some large. In 1971, it went on tour. The first London production opened in 1972. In 1978, it went off­Broadway in the Equity 30 perform­ances. In 1980, it was produced by Playwrights Horizons. The show ran for 20 perform­ances in 1987 with the York Theater Company. In 1993, the original cast performed the show twice for benefit con­certs. The Roundabout Theater Production ran for 43 perform­ances in 1995. In 1996, the show was revived in 


London. The show is still running from 2001 in Brazil at the Villa-Lobos Theater in Rio De Janeiro. There was a limited engagement of the show at The Kennedy Center in 2002. UCLA also ran the show in 2004. In 2006, the Broadway revival opened, running for 246 performances before closing on July 1' 2007. 
The 1995 revival received a few Tony Award nominations but did not win any of them. In 2007, it won the Tony Award for Best Revival of a Musical. The 2006 revival also received the Drama Desk Award for Best Revival of a Musical. In 2008, a filmed ver­sion of the show was aired on PBS. It was also released on 

DVD. 

Though the show is only 39 years old, it has already had a long and colorful running history. Its message is something that all members of the audience can grasp, as they watch the charac­ters struggle with relationships and what they want out of life. There can be no doubt that PEMCo. will continue to bring the power and punch of this musical to life here at Notre Dame. 
Contact Kaidyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 

By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Scene Writer 
After the huge success of "The Producers" last spring -every per­formance sold out-Pasquerilla East Music Company (PEMCo.) is scaling down for their fall production with Steven Sondheim's "Company" this weekend at Washington Hall. 
The music is less showy, the stage is simpler and there are only 14 peo­ple in the cast ('The Producers" glee­fully exaggerated all of these). It's also not exactly a happy-go-lucky romp. 
"I would definitely say it's different than any show PEMCo.'s ever done before. If you look at all the shows we've done before, it's not a particu­larly happy 
sented out of order, with the people and events likely skewed by the main character's memory. That means Brandt must play a "real-time," reflective Robert as well as the Robert within the memory-sometimes both in the same scene. 
"It's a very difficult character to play. I have to play Bobby as he's act­ing in the scene and Bobby as he's reflecting on the scene as it's happen­ing," Brandt explained. 'There's moments where Bobby is being the life of the party and saying something funny, but then there's a moment later where he's saying something clearly reflective, a piec,e of dialogue that may not even be directed to any­one. It's kind of this blur between what actually happened and what musical when it debuted in the 1970s. 
"It's not a typical concept of a musi­cal. No basic plot that gets resolved at the end. It's much more vague ... It's much more of a dramatic presenta­tion that happens to involve musical numbers," Brandt explains. 
Mastering that music was a chal­lenge, explained the show's music director, junior Mark Wurzelbacher. Steven Sondheim, who also created "Sweeney Todd" and "Into the Woods," is known for bending the conventions of mll'>ical theater. 
"With any Sondheim musical, the music can seem at times a little coun­terintuitive, almost," Wurzelbacher said in an e-mail to The Observer. "It's really something that I have to 
grapple with "Company," the two laid out a plan f o r rehearsals that would make the best use of t h e i r cramped schedule. 

"Because wehad!>'llch a limited amount of time, we tried to be as efficient as pos!>ible. I would do scene work, and I would send other people who I didn't need over to do the music. And then it's really kind of fun, because 
• 

In Good 
"Companv" 
with PEMCO's 
Fall Show 
musical. It's 
before I can dramatic, I even begin to think one of teach it to the the most act­cast .. . It's ing-intensive exciting, shows we've though, ever done," because it said senior always keeps Kelly Rice, you on your one of the toes." show's pro­Director ducers. B r i a n 
Sophomore Davenport, a Nick Brandt junior, said plays Robert, that the chal­a middle­lenging mate­aged, middle­rial and tight class man try­schedule (only ing to make five weeks) sense of the made this a relationships more focused in his life. production "Company" is VANESSA GEMPIS /The Observer than most He not a typical Robert, played by Nick Brandt, reflects on a memory in 'Company.' a n d musical with Wurmlbacher a linear storyline -it is instead a he's thinking about while reflecting had worked together in Farley Hall series of vignettes tied together by on it." Players' spring 2009 production of Robert's 35th birthday party. The The disjointed story is what set "Assassins," another Sondheim musi­scenes are actually memories, pre-"Company" apart from the traditional cal. Before any parts were cast for when we do come together in the later weeks it's kind of a show-and­tell thing," he said. 
Short on money, sleep and some­times even rehearsal space, the cast and crew still managed to pull togeth­er a difficult show in about five weeks (much shorter than the three-month stretch for PEMCo. winter show. But Davenport stresses that with a stu­dent-run production, it's important to find a balance between putting together a good show and having fun. 
"People do this in college ll'>Ually because it's something they did it in high school and they loved it and it's something they want to keep doing as, you know, a break from the stressful class schedule. For this show, we had to be so tight in terms of scheduling ... Every rehearsal has been so packed ... but it's really com­ing together. The cast has really come together in a good way, they've all bonded and have inside jokes," said Davenport. 
That spirit of r,amaraderie has kept the student-run PEMCo. growing and evolving for 13 years. 
Performanr.es are Oct. 8, 9 and 10 at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $6 for students and $8 for everyone else, available at LaFortune Box Office. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Thursday, October 8, 2009 
page 13 

"Company," 7:30 p.m., Washington Dan Cummii;:m10 p.m.~Legend; 'fiia~> ~ith the Gei n~·~u si~y ~:s~"~'PI~i~~.;;'j :p:;:: Brownl~g. Hall Dan Cummins comes to Legends. ··· Down, 10 p.m., Legends ·· Cinema · This weekend Pasquerilla East Music This Friday night, be sure to Thao with the Get Down Stay "Suspicion" is the latest Hitchcock Company (PEMCo.) presents its fall pro-check out the latest in a slew of Down is a San Francisco based film in a yearlong series..... duction, "Company." In its more than 10 comedians SUB has worked to alternative-folk-rock group. "Celebrating Hitchcock," which is ·· years as a group on campus, PEMCo. bring to campus. Cummins is con-Founded in 2003 by lead singer being hosted by DPAC this year. It has set the bar very high for itself, pro-sidered an up-and-comer on the' Thao Nguyen and drummer Willis .centers on a handsome man, Johnny. ducing high quality musicals at least comedy scene, making his televi-Thompson, the band has been tour-. ,Aysgarth, who is known to be a once a year. This year is to be no excep-sion debut a little over a year ago ing and recording for over six chronic gambler and swindler. He tion with its production of "Company." on Comedy Central. His humor is years. The band also includes meets a young woman, Lina! With music and lyrics by Stephen described as being a little "left-of-bassist Adam Thompson (no rela-+< McLaidlaw, on a train and before Sondheim, this show depicts the 35th center" with many jokes relating tion to Willis) and Frank Stewart on ···· ..· long they are married. Lina becomes;' birthday of a man, Bobby, who is sur-.. to his quirky childhood in a small lead guitar. As a group they toured suspicious of her new husband andt rounded by married couples but cannot town in Idaho. On his MySpace, .this summer with acts including Xiu. his true nature when a close family( make a commitment. Considered one of'.. Cummins describes himself as .. · Xiu and Rilo Kiley. Nguyen still per-·.·· friend is found dead. Starring Cary the first musicals to address more adult'' "Stand Up Comic for people who forms and tours by herself on occa-·... ,Grant and Joan Fontaine, 
issues, "Company" promises to be an don't like Stand Up Comedy. Slam! ·sion. She will be touring her solo';'i;i"Suspicion" is the first film Hitchcock .····. · 
excellent production. All should consid-Chop! Pow!" Hopefully his show act with the Hotel Cafe Tour this It;l;]both produced and directed. As with' 
er going out and supporting these tal-will be equally enjoyable for those fall. Thao with the Get Down Stay A~Jall of Hitchcock's work, "Suspicion"; 
•ented members of our community in that like standup comedy as well. Down plans to release their newest , ''promises to be an intriguing and their most recent endeavor. album on Oct. 13th. .thrilling cinematic experience. 
Contact GennaMcCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 

By LESLIE SHUMATE 
Scene Writers 
"Fame" certainly won't live forever and I doubt you'll remember its name. 
The remake of the 1980 film may share the same name as the original, but it lacks the originality and edge of its predeces­sor. In a pop culture inun­dated with "High School Musical" offshoots, scores of students singing and dancing their way to star­dom simply doesn't bear the same novelty as it did in 1980. To engage audi­ences as effectively as the original film, "Fame" would have to develop dynamic characters through a compelling plot. 
Unfortunately, the 2009 remake doesn't achieve this. 
Like the original film, "Fame" follows the trials and triumphs of a handful of students at the New York City High School for the Performing Arts. Musicians, singers, dancers and actors all compete to succeed in the highly competitive school, with some advancing fur­ther than others. The tal­ented teenagers face pressure from parents and teachers, rocky rela­tionships, and the bitter reality of show business. Such struggles may spur self-doubt and unsuccess­ful suicide attempts, but, lucky for us, they are not 
Fame 

Directed by: Kevin Tancharoen Starring: Kay Panabaker, Naturi Naughton, Asher Book, Kelsey Grammer, Megan Mullally 

enough to pre­vent an inspira­tional musical number at grad­uation. 
T h e cast of "Fame" i s clearly c o m ­prised of very 

talented performers. Naturi Naughton, who plays the character of Denise, is a particular delight to watch onscreen. Her soulful rendi­tion of Here on Own" is eas­ily the high light of th entire film But, wit the excep ti on o Naughton, the rest o the cast fall flat in thei delivery. 
To be fair, ·•· the struc­ture of the film makes it near! impossible to ful develop any char­acter. " F a m e " chronicle nine char­acters' four years of high school in 107 minutes. This doesn't leave much time for learning anything about the characters aside from their names and performance specialty (although even these are difficult to remember). 
Hindering things further is a weak, if even exis­
tent, plot line. Other than watching the students' progress from each grade, there is no perceivable storyline. Such an 
ambiguous plo 
makes 
t nearly 
mpossible to 
provide any sort of 
continuity from one 
scene to the next. In 
one scene, the audience witnesses a tender heart­to-heart between an angry, guarded student and his compassionate teacher, and in the next, they watch Megan Mullally serenade her stu­dents with "You Took Advantage of Me" at a karaoke bar. 
With so many characters 
and such a vague plot, it is difficult to invest in the characters and care about the successes and fail­ures. When one character is accepted into a presti­gious dance company, the audience is too distracted trying to remember her name to really care. And when another character is told he will never have a dancing career, his dis­tress is undermined by the fact that he has not een onscreen since one f the first scenes of the 
film. 

Even with spontaneous lunchroom jam sessions, drunken rap performanc­es and secret singing careers, "Fame" proves to be a disappointingly pre­dictable coming-of-age film. From the opening credits, one knows that the students will learn to believe in themselves and never give up on their dreams. Unfortunately, this story has been told too many times already and there is nothing about "Fame" that sets it apart from its predeces­sors. 
Contact Leslie Shumate at lshumate@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 8, 2009 
NFL 

Winless Browns trade reciever Edwards to Jets 
Wideout being investigated for violating league conduct policy; New York gives up Stuckey, Trusnik and two draft picks 

Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­Michael Crabtree is confident he can play a big role for the San Francisco 49ers as a rookie even though he's months behind. 
He will get his chances in an offense that could really use him. 
Crabtree signed a six-year con­tract early Wednesday after a drawn-out negotiation process that had some wondering whether the star wide receiver would ever show up this season. 
"It's a lot of relief off my shoul­ders," Crabtree said when for­mally introduced at team head­quarters. 
While specific terms of the deal, which was completed around 2 a.m. Wednesday, were not disclosed, Crabtree will receive nearly $17 million in guaranteed money, according to a person familiar with the con­tract. The person spoke on condi­tion of anonymity because the details weren't made public. 
Crabtree headed out Wednesday for his first practice 

as the 49ers prepare for Sunday's home game against Atlanta. 
"Everybody came to a reach­able agreement and it hap­pened," Crabtree said, sporting a red No. 15 practice jersey and charcoal gray sweats. ''I'm just glad I'm past that part. I'm very humble right now, man, it's a very humbling experience. Just getting a chance to sit back and better myself as a person, as a player, as a teammate.... I feel like going through that it made me look at the world in a differ­ent way, look at my teanunates a different way. Hopefully it will work out for the best." 
The agreement was first reported by ESPN.com. Coach Mike Singletary called it a "fair deal for both parties involved." 
The former Texas Tech star was the only draft pick who had­n't signed -and even rapper MC Hammer got involved to finally make it happen. 
Crabtree could provide the game-breaking receiving threat the 49ers have been lacking, assuming he can quickly learn the offense after missing all of training camp. The 1Oth pick overall, he also sat out offseason minicamps and organized team activities while recovering from a foot injury, but was a regular presence at the team's training facility. 
Before Wednesday, Singletary had spoken to Crabtree just once since breaking offseason work­outs in June. 
Crabtree and his agent, Eugene Parker, met with three top 49ers officials Tuesday to work through his contract impasse. Crabtree balked at a long-standing offer of approximately five years and $20 million, with a reported $16 mil­lion guaranteed. Instead, he sought money comparable to what higher draft picks received. 
"We came out of the gate and put a solid offer on the table," 49ers general manager Scot McCloughan said, still unsure what Crabtree's side didn't like about it. 'Tm curious to find out because it goes against the norm. Very seldom do you see this." 
\ssociated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. -Braylon Edwards' arrival was pic­ture-perfect for the New York Jets. 
The talented but troubled wide receiver was acquired from Cleveland on Wednesday and showed up at the team's facility shortly after practice ended ­just in time to try on his new green and white threads and be included in the team picture. 
"It was interesting getting off a plane and rushing right to a team photo," Edwards said, smiling. "The guys in the locker room were good." 
Edwards said he felt welcomed right away because he was a tar­get of some good-natured jokes as soon as he walked into the locker room. 
"A couple of guys cracked on the pants I had on," said Edwards, who already knows several of the Jets players. "I took that as a good sign." 
The Jets dealt wide receiver Chansi Stuckey, linebacker Jason Trusnik and two undisclosed draft choices in return for Edwards, who has 10 receptions for 139 yards but was shut out for the first time in his career in the winless Browns' 23-20 overtime loss to Cincinnati on Sunday. 
"I believe coming here to a team that's doing well with a new head coach that has them going in the right direction ... is a fresh start and a clean slate," Edwards said. 
Edwards was on his way to the Browns' facility at 7:45 a.m. when he received a call from coach Eric Mangini, who told him to come to his office, where he was told of the deal. 
"I hadn't any clue I was going to be traded," Edwards said. 
Edwards, in his fifth season, is expected to practice Thursday and coach Rex Ryan said he will start Monday night at Miami for the Jets. 
"I think he's going to fit right in with our group," Ryan said. 
New York was lacking a legiti­mate deep threat for Mark Sanchez to throw to opposite Jerricho Cotchery, and the Jets believe Edwards will also help jumpstart the running game. 
''I've had to defend against him twice a year in Baltimore, and that's not fun," Ryan said. ''He is a matchup nightmare." 
The former Michigan star and Pro Bowl selection comes to the Jets with his share of off-field issues. The NFL is investigating whether Edwards violated the league's conduct policy following accusations he assaulted a man outside a nightclub early Monday. 
Edwards allegedly punched pro-

CLASSIFIEDS 
mater Edward Givens, a friend of NBA star LeBron James, following an argument in downtown Oeveland. Police are also looking into the incident. 
Edwards declined to discuss the situation, saying it's a legal matter. 
Although Edwards hasn't been charged with a crime, the league's conduct policy states that disci­pline may be imposed for "the use or threat of violence." 
"We're comfortable with adding Braylon," general manager Mike Tannenbaum said. "We'll cooper­ate with all the authorities, and we're glad he's here. We did our due diligence." 
The Jet<>, off to a 3-1 start under Ryan, were looking to replace Laveranues Coles in the starting lineup since allowing him to become a free agent in the offsea­son. They looked into former Giants star Plaxico Burress' legal status before the draft, and were mentioned in possible trade talks for Denver's Brandon Marshall. 
Edwards' best season came in 2007, when he had 80 catches for 1,289 yards and 16 touchdowns. 
"I know he's going to add some­thing great to this offense," Cotchery said of Edwards. "We've got to smile about that because he's a great player and he's going to demand a lot of attention." 
Edwards also has taken some criticism over the years for his propensity for dropping passes and lapses in concentration. 
"Is he going to catch every pass that's thrown to him? No," Ryan said. "But, he's going to catch enough of them and he's going to make a lot of difference." 
Edwards has a year remaining on his contract, but the Jets had no immediate plans to sign him to a new deal during this season. 
"I don't want to be a distrac­tion," he said. "All I want to do is play football. They have a machine moving in the right direction, so to sit here and talk about a contract would be pretty petty." 
Edwards has been involved in other off-field incidents, but Ryan said he consulted with people he really trusts; his twin brother, Rob, is the Browns' defensive coordinator. 
"We're confident with the player on the field and off the field," he said. 
It's the second major trade the Jets have made with the Browns and Mangini. On the first day of the draft in April, the Jets acquired the fifth overall pick from Cleveland -using it to select Sanchez -in exchange for New York's second-rounder (No. 52). defensive end Kenyon Coleman, safety Abram Elam and quarterback Brett Ratliff. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tamer sales/service,574-273-3835 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES 1 bdrm apartment for rent right off campus. $390/mo. 574-243-7777. 
2 bdrm apt. close to ND. Utilities not incl. Call313-382-0536 or 574-386­3896. 54684 Twyckenham. 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you car about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it along. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND s website at http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
FoR SALE 

Ford 79 T-Bird. 45K Miles. Orig Owner. $8,000. 574-299-0925 "Riders of Rohan, what news from the Mark?" "What business do an elf, a man and a dwarf have in the Riddermark?" "Give me your name, horse-master, and I shall give you mine." "I would cut off your head, Dwarf, if it stood but a bit further from the ground." "You would die before your stroke fell." "Easy Legal as. I am Aragorn, son of Arathorn. This is Gimli, son of Gloin and Legolas of woodland realm. 
"They were once men. Great kings of men. Then Sauron the deceiver gave to them nine rings of power. Blinded by their greed, they took them without question, one by one falling into darkness. Now they are slaves to his will. They are the Nazgul, Ringwraiths, neither living nor dead. At all times they feel the presence of the Ring, drawn to the power of the One. They will never stop hunting you." 
----....----------­

"The Uruks turn North. They're tak­ing the hobbits to lsengard!" 

OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Thursday, October 8, 2009 
page 15 
MLB 

Golfweek/Sagarln Men's Golf Division I Top 25 
team previous 
1 Oklahoma State 68.36 2 Tennessee 69.11 3 Arizona Stale 69.34 4 Illinois 69.41 5 Washington 69.45 6 Stanford· 69.50 1 Florida State 69.50 8 Oregon State 70.10 9 Texas 70.14 10 Southern California 70.17 11 Florida 70.24 12 North Carolina State 70.36 13 Southern Methodist 70.44 14 North Florida 70;44 15 Kansas State 
70;55 16 Michigan 70;63 17 Arkansas 70.55 18 UNLV 70.63 19 TexasA&M 70.75 20 TCU 70.76 21 Georgia Tech 70.78 22 South Carolina 70.80 23 Texas Tech 70.90 24 Chattanooga 70.96 25 Auburn 70.98 
Golfweek/Sagarln Women's Golf Division f·Top 25 
team 
tatitrg 
1 Southern Ca lifornla · 
70.55 2 UCLA 
70.81 3 Arizona State 71.18 4 Auburn 71.28 5 Purdue 71.52 6 Denver <u 71.57 
7 LSU playoff start. He retired 16 with a masterful perform­runs in five-plus innings.
71.65 Associated Press 
11~1s· straight batters at one ance. A sellout crowd of PHILADELPHIA -Cliff point until Garrett Atkins On a day when swirling 46,452 -the largest in
71,92····.··········
71.fla····· ·. Lee pitched like an ace hit a wind-blown double winds made flyballs an the six-year history of instead of a postseason in the seventh. Lee lost his adventure, Lee ignored Citizens Bank Park ­
7~.1Q.· ••.••i 
72.32· rookie. Lee dominated the shutout when Troy the elements and shut rocked the ballpark, wav­7U7 Colorado Rockies, tossing Tulowitzki doubled in a down the NL's second­ing their white-and-red 
72.45 a six-hitter, and the run with two outs in the highest scoring offense. "Fightin' Phils" rally tow­15 Arizona 72.57 Philadelphia Phillies ninth. Avoiding the adventures els. The Phillies were 7-0 16 New Mexico 72.58 began their World Series Game 2 of the best-of­that come with the Phillies at home last October and 17 California 72.63 title defense with a 5-l five NL division series is bullpen, Lee mixed a set a franchise attendance 18 Ohio State 72.64 victory in their playoff set for Thursday with Cole deceptive fastball with off­record this season. 19 Texas A&M 72.78 opener Wednesday. Hamels, last year's World speed pitches, had pin­Werth, one of five All­
20 Florida Slate 72:79 
Raul Ibanez had two hits Series and NLCS MVP, on point accuracy and threw Stars in Philadelphia's21 Virginia 72.95 and two RBis, and Ryan the mound for the Phillies 113 pitches. lineup, got it started with 
22 Louisville 
Howard and Jayson Werth against Colorado's Aaron The hard-throwing a walk in the fifth. He
23 UC Davis 
drove in runs with key Cook. Jimenez was equally scored when Ibanez
24 Slanford 
extra-base hits off 15-Some questioned man­impressive against the ripped a double into the
25 Soul 
game winner Ubaldo ager Charlie Manuel's league's No. 1-scoring right-field corner. Ibanez's Jimenez. decision to give Lee the offense for four innings, hit fired up the raucous Lee, the reigning AL Cy ball over the playoff-test­but ran out of gas in the crowd, which screamed 
Young Award winner, ed Hamels for the first fifth. He got chased with "Rauuuuuuuul!" Carlos 
struck out five and had no game. But Lee made his no outs in the sixth after Ruiz followed with a sin­
AVCA Division Ill Women's walks in his first career manager look brilliant allowing nine hits and five gle to right to make it 2-0. 
IN BRIEF 

Tebow's status to be game­Mark Sanchez fined $5~000 Bryant ruled ineligible by
time decision, says Meyer for hit, apologizes to VIlma Oklahoma State for violation 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -Tim Tebow's FLORHAM PARK, N.J. -New STILLWATER, Okla. -All-America status against No. 4 LSU appears as if York Jets rookie quarterback Mark wide receiver Dez Bryant has been it will be a game-day decision. Sanchez says he has been fined ruled ineligible by Oklahoma State, four 
Florida coach Urban Meyer said $5,000 by the NFL for his low block days before the 15th-ranked Cowboys' Wednesday that his medical staff told on New Orleans linebacker first Big 12 game. him to prepare as if there is a chance Jonathan Vilma last weekend. The university announced the injured Reisman Trophy-winning During Darren Sharper's 99-yard Wednesday that Bryant "failed to open­quarterback will play Saturday night interception return for a touch­ly disclose to the NCAA the full details in Baton Rouge. down Sunday, Sanchez dived at the of his interaction with a former NFL 
"Is it an advantage, us not telling?" legs of Vilma, who was blocking on player not affiliated with OSU." Meyer said. ''I'm not worried about the play. Sanchez was assessed a Oklahoma State (3-1) said it had that right now. We're game-planning 15-yard personal foul penalty for already asked the NCAA to reinstate as if there's a chance Tim could play. the hit. Bryant for the violation of bylaw
around the dial 
There's a chance he won't play, That's Vilma took exception to the block, lO.l(d), which prohibits players from going to be pretty much the response saying after the game the league knowingly providing false information until the foot hits the ball down there." should fine Sanchez. to the NCAA regarding a possible rules
MLB 

Tebow practiced Tuesday for the Sanchez said Wednesday that he violation. Red Sox at Angels first time since suffering the first con­called Vilma on Tuesday and apolo­"I made a mistake by not being 
9:30 p.m., TBS cussion of his career Sept. 26 against gized. entirely truthful when meeting with the Kentucky. He was hospitalized "I said, 'Hey, dude, I don't know NCAA," Bryant said in a statement 



overnight, and there has been what I was doing," Sanchez said. released by the university. "I sincerely
NCAA Football 

much speculation about whether He said the former Jets linebacker regret my mistake and apologize to my
Nebraska at Missouri 

he should return against the told him, "No problem at all. I teammates, coaches, OSU fans and the 
9 p.m., ESPN understand."
Tigers. NCAA." 

MLB 

Indians narrowing coaching choices 
Cleveland seeking head coach after firing Eric Wedge; hope to have job filled by end ofplayoffs 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND-General man­ager Mark Shapiro already is nar­rowing his search for the next Oeveland Indians manager. 
Shapiro said Wednesday he is getting closer to a list of "eight to 10" candidates to replace Eric Wedge, who was fired last week. He hopes to have a new manager by the end of the World Series, but that timetable could be delayed if a leading candidate is on a team currently in the playoffs. 
Boston pitching coach John Farrell, who served as Indians farm director before taking the Red Sox job after the 2006 season, is among names mentioned as a possible successor. 
"We have made no calls to any teams for permission to talk (to their employees)," Shapiro said. "We have made calls to specific guys, but are not limited just to them. Previous experience is help­ful, but not a necessity, though it would take a very special guy to be considered without major­league experience." 
Farrell, a former Indians pitch­er, has never managed at any level. 
Shapiro said the selection process will be challenging. 
"The perfect guy probably is already doing it somewhere else right now," Shapiro said. "But cer­tain things make good leaders and we have a list of criteria." 
He stressed that good communi­cation skills -with the team and the public -along with the ability to build a diverse staff and use it are at the top of his list. 
"There's always the usual lead­ership points -being smart, tough, professional and passion­ate," Shapiro said. 'The new man will also have to understand our situation, be able to develop young players and make good utilization of the bullpen." 
Cleveland won the AL Central in 2007, but poor relief pitching was a big reason for a .500 record in 2008. After being touted as a con­tender this year, the Indians fal­tered due to injuries and more bullpen woes. The club ultimately traded several of its stars for prospects and finished 67-95­the Indians' worst record in 18 years. 
Shapiro and assistant general manager Chris Antonetti have had numerous phone talks with cur­rent and past players, coaches and managers, front office per­sonnel from other clubs as well as media members to get back­ground on candidates. Shapiro said his initial list was closer to 30 names and others may be added as discussions widen. 
"There are three or four guys who were not on our radar screen that we will now talk to," Shapiro said. 
Though financial constraints have hampered Cleveland from signing certain free-agent players, Shapiro said money likely would not be an issue. Former managers such as Bobby Valentine, Buck Showalter or Bob Brenly likely would demand more lucrative contracts than inexperienced can­didates. 
Shapiro said at least one man­ager from the Indians' minor­league system is on his cutdown Jist. It could be Torey Lovullo of their Triple-A team at Columbus; Mike Sarbaugh, who guided Double-A affiliate Akron to an Eastern League title; or former Cleveland third baseman Travis Fryman, who led Mahoning Valley the past two years. 
Fans calling Cleveland radio shows say former Indians catcher Sandy Alomar Jr., now a New York Mets coach, would be a good choice. Others say bring back shortstop Omar Vizquel as player­coach -pointing out that the only time Oeveland has won the World Series, they were led by a Hall of Farner in such a role. Tris Speaker did it in 1920 and Lou Boudreau in 1948. 
Still others are talking up Mike Hargrove, who managed Cleveland to five straight AL Central titles in 1995-99 and two trips to the World Series. 
Being a popular former Indians player or manager doesn't carry additional weight with Shapiro. 
"We're not looking for short­term popularity, but for a guy who can come in here and win," Shapiro said. "We're looking to have the right guy in place." 
NFL 

Manning's injury status uncertain 
Undefeated Giant's quarterback left previous game with heel pain 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFOHD, N.J. ­While his painful heel injury is improving, Eli Manning is not guaranteeing he will quarter­back the New York Giants this weekend against the Oakland Raiders. 
Manning, who has started the last 82 games, was held out of practice Wednesday so he can get treatment on his plantar fas­cia, a band of connective tissue that runs along the bottom of the foot and inserts into the heel. 
"If I feel like I can go out and play at a high level and help the team and do everything I can do, and they don't have to limit the game plan or say you can't do this or that, I'll go out there and play," Manning said. ''I'm not going to do anything that will put myself in harm tor making this worse down the road." 
Manning admitted his heel bothered him occasionally the last few weeks. However, he never had pain like he felt in the fourth quarter Sunday when he set up to throw against Kansas City and literally had to hop because it so was intense. 
"It never bothered me at prac­tice," said Manning, who has led the Giants to a 4-0 start. "It never kept me from doing any­thing." 
Manning had the most basic 

'Wfite for Sports. Email Matt at mgamber@nd.edu 
treatment Wednesday: electric stimulation and ice. lie also was fitted for an orthotic for his shoe. He watched videotapes of the Raiders' defense, went over this week's game plan, planned to watch tape of praetice, discuss it with his receivers and then go over his notes. 
His biggest concern though was his heel, which he said is improving. Manning said he felt less pain than on Monday and Tuesday and that he was moving around better. He said he was in no pain while talking in front of his locker. 
He has asked the team's med­ical staff whether playing this weekend might make his injury worse. They told him they just don't know. 
"As an athlete you know when something is bothering you and when something is going to get worse or not, and I'll make that decision," Manning said. 
Wait and see is the way Manning described his plans for both practice the rest of this week and the game. 
"I feel like I have been practic­ing well and playing good foot­ball and been in a rhythm the last couple of weeks," Manning said. "You don't want to go out there when you are injured and you can't do everything you want to do and move the way you want, and all the sudden you get bad habits and bad mechanics and you're throwing the ball dif­ferently." 
Manning said he would like to practice some time this week, but noted he could play without practicing. 
When Manning hurt the A-C joint in his right shoulder early in the 2007 season, he missed practice on Wednesday and Thursday and took only half the snaps on Friday before starting against Green Bay. 
"I was probably more worried about my shoulder than this," Manning said. "It was my throw­ing shoulder and I couldn't even throw when I hurt that. I could­n't throw the ball 10 yards. I know I can throw the ball now, it's the moving around and all the other things I have to take care of." 
Giants coach Tom Coughlin said Manning doesn't need to practice to play. 
"He will know everything," Coughlin said. "While he is in here today, he will have a [video] machine in front of him. His tape time will probably be as good as or maybe more than a normal week. Yeah, he will study hard." 
Veteran David Carr, the No. 1 overall pick in the 2002 draft, would replace Manning if he could not play. He has 79 career starts, but none since 2006 with Carolina. 
1,2, &3 BedrOom Apartments 
-~,, 
,/-


Deluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments 
2Bedroom Apartments & Townhouses 1 Bedrooms Furnished Studios 

New High Line Fitness Center • Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, 24 Hour FitJi• ...,. House Center, Basketball Court · -· 
• 
Free Tanning Beds 


• 
. Free Washer and Dryer in each unit. 

• 
High Speed Wireless Internet and Comcast Premium Cable Included 


• 01\Site Management .............2"~..' 1\wnte~naJD.(.£ 
• On Site Security Officer 
Thursday, October 8, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Eagles' McNabb to start against Buccaneers 
Quarterback ready to play following bye week after missing two games with a broken rib; Kolb returns to backup role 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Donovan McNabb is ready to pull on the No. 5 gameday jersey, take the snap, drop back and throw the ball downfield. 
McNabb plans to start when Philadelphia plays Tampa Bay on Sunday, his first action since breaking his rib in the season opener. McNabb still feels some dis­comfort and needs a protec­tive jacket to absorb punish­ing hits. 
"You're talking about one of the all-time greats playing quarterback," coach Andy Reid said Wednesday. "Somebody who has been here a long time and when it's all said and done will be one of the all-time greatest to play that position. It's always good to get that kind of a player back in there." 
This time, McNabb will have Michael Vick to help out. 
McNabb hasn't played since he took a hard shot in the end zone after a rushing touchdown Sept. 13 in a win over the Carolina Panthers. He missed two games before the Eagles (2-1) had their bye this past weekend. 
"The bye week came at the right time and gave me an opportunity to get back out there this week," McNabb said. 
McNabb practiced on Wednesday and should have his familiar, and banged-up, running back behind him. Reid said Brian Westbrook also should be able to play on Sunday. Westbrook, who practiced Wednesday, sat out the Eagles' last game with a knee injury. 
McNabb still feels some discomfort when he laughs, coughs or sleeps on his side. Extended periods of sitting and standing are also uncomfortable for the five­time Pro Bowl quarterback, who doesn't expect to be fully recovered for another two to four weeks. 
"I don't think I'll be going through this deal for weeks," he said. "In due time, it will heal up and get back to 100 percent. As far as right now, it's something you battle with and continue to grind, but it's nothing that will restrict me in any way." 
Kevin Kolb, who threw for 327 yards against Kansas City and 391 against New Orleans in his two starts, returns to his backup role. He was the first quarterback in NFL history to throw for 300-plus yards in his first 
two starts. helped them win. 
"Kolb really did play well," "The fun thing about it is McNabb said. "The offense we haven't even touched the really rallied around him. surface of what we will do Guys stepped up and made with it," McNabb said. "It's plays for him. That's what something that's going to you want." benefit us and put pressure 
Kolb threw for all those on defenses." yards even with the Eagles Reid said he had no set breaking out variations of number of plays that he the wildcat. wanted to Westbrook and include Vick in. wide receivers The once-daz­D e S e a n "You ,re talking about zling and Jackson and dynamic quar­
one of the all-time 
Jeremy Maclin terback for the
greats playing 
have all had Atlanta 
turns at QB in quarterback. ,, Falcons is Philadelphia's Andy Reid shaking off the wildcat forma­rust after a
Eagles coach 
tion. Vick has two-year layoff been the team's and appears primary wild-closer to his cat weapon and was the old self. Vick said on quarterback for 10 plays in Wednesday he has not talked Philadelphia's 34-14 win with McNabb about how over Kansas City in Week 3. they'll be paired and used to Vick will continue to be their full potential. worked into the offense, "I think it will be pretty even with McNabb back. Vick much be the same six, seven was suspended the first two plays per game, go out and games this year. make the plays positive 
McNabb endorsed Vick's plays," Vick said. "Help the signing, but complained dur­team, not hurt the team, ing a preseason game that which is my motto right now. the Eagles' heavy use of Vick If I only get five or six plays and the wildcat formation the rest of the season, then d isrupte d the offense. He I'm content with that, but insisted on Wednesday he like I said, my objective is to was fine with the offense if it win." 
Vick and cable channel BET confirmed that the dis­graced QB are working together on a documentary set to air in 2010. Vick and his crew started filming when he was sent to prison for 18 months for his role in operating a dogfighting ring. 
Asked why he started film­ing, Vick repeated the same message he's spread at his various anti-dogfighting talks at schools and church­es. 
"I think its important to show our youth and our kids that you face adversity but you're not responsible for falling, you're responsible for getting up," Vick said. ''I'm very remorseful about what happened and what I did. I just don't want other people to go down that path. I'm trying to make it right and repair past damages. That's all I want to show." 
Vick said he didn't think he'd have to continue filming during the football season. 
"Some time in 2010 we'll have a chance to put it all together and do the editing," Vick said. "But I have to play football now, which is the most important thing." 
And for the first time in a regular season game, he'll get to play with McNabb. 

page 18 
NFL 

Rookie linebacker dies inexplicably 
Former Iraq war veteran Fein cut by Ravens after pre-season; death appeers to be accidental 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Tony Fein, an Iraq war veteran and NFL rook­ie linebacker who played with the Baltimore Ravens during the preseason, has died of unexplained causes after col­lapsing at a friend's house in what his agent said appears to be "an accidental situation." 
Fein, 27, an undrafted rookie free agent from Mississippi, was lying face down and uncon­scious, vomiting and barely breathing when medics arrived at a house outside Port Orchard on the Kitsap Peninsula just before 9 a.m PDT Tuesday, said Mike Wernet, a battalion chief and medical officer with South Kitsap Fire & Rescue. 
The medics put a breathing tube down Fein's throat after he stopped breathing and administered medication, but he went into cardiac arrest dur­ing the drive to Harrison Medical Center in Bremerton, across Puget Sound from Seattle, and was pronounced dead at the hospital at 9:48 
a.m. PDT Tuesday, Wernet told The Associated Press. 
A man and woman who were present described Fein as a friend who was staying with them. They told the aid crew they awoke to find him unre­sponsive and vomiting. 
"They didn't really give us a lot of information about what had happened the night before," apparently because they were upset, Wernet said. "They didn't indicate anything out of the ordinary." 
There were no obvious wounds or signs of alcohol or other drug abuse, and nothing indicated foul play, he added. 
Kitsap County sheriff's Deputy Scott E. Wilson said a detective was assigned to the case Wednesday because the death seemed unusual. 
"We don't have any indication of anything suspicious ... or foul play," Wilson said. 
Fein's agent, Milton D. Hobbs, a lawyer in Oxford, Miss., said he knew of no medical condi­tion or previous severe illness in Fein. 
"As I understand it, it was an accidental situation," Hobbs said. "As far as I understand it from family members, there's nothing to indicate that he intended to hurt himself." 
An autopsy won't be conduct­ed before Thursday and no report will be issued before all toxicology and other tests are complete, likely in six to eight weeks, said Allen G. Gerdes, Kitsap County chief deputy coroner. 

Fein, a native of Port Orchard, was released by the Ravens in their last major round of roster cuts on Sept. 5. 
"Tony Fein was a really good teammate, a tremendous American, a tremendous young man ... just a really good per­son," Havens coach John Harbaugh said before Wednesday's practice in Owings Mills, Md. "We were proud to have him· here as part of our team. We're unbelievably dis­appointed about the news." 
Hobbs said he last spoke with Fein on Friday and since the death had talked with the Fein's sister, mother and some friends. He would not discuss a possible cause of death. 
"He was working out and we were discussing football oppor­tunities. That was still his goal," Hobbs said. "We talked about Canada." 
Some Canadian Football League teams had expressed interest in Fein before he joined the Ravens but there had been no contacts since he was cut, the agent said. 
Fein was arrested on Aug. 23 and charged with misdemeanor assault on a police officer after an incident at a restaurant at Baltimore's Inner Harbor in which the officer reportedly mistook his cellular telephone for a handgun. A trial was scheduled Wednesday, but prosecutors notified Fein's attorney last Thursday that they planned to dismiss the case because of conflicting wit­ness accounts, state's attorney spokeswoman Marty Burns said. 
Fein played quarterback for South Kitsap High School before graduating in 2000. At age 19 he enlisted in the Army and spent 2 1/2 years in Iraq as a 19 Delta reconnaissance scout. 
He later enrolled at Scottsdale, Ariz., Community College, became one of the nation's top junior college recruits and played for Ole Miss in 2007 and 2008. In two sea­sons at Ole Miss, he had 136 tackles (77 solo) in 24 games, according to the school's Web site. 
"A humble young man," Baltimore linebacker Ray Lewis said. "Our hearts definitely go out to his family because it's such a tragedy for a man to be that young and go through the things he's been through." 
The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 8, 2009 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Masoli could still start for Ducks 
Quarterback's status questionable after injuring his right knee 
Associated Press 

EUGENE, Ore. -Oregon quarterback Jeremiah Masoli rejoined praetice with the No. 13 Oregon Ducks on a limited basis Wednesday after miss­ing two days with a right knee injury. 
It appeared that backup quarterback Nate Costa will get the start on Saturday at UCLA. Masoli was scheduled to have his knee re-examined by doetors on Thursday. 
Masoli was sacked in the first half of Oregon's 52-6 victory over Washington State last Saturday and lel't thn game shortly thnrnaftnr. lin was seen icing his knee on the sidelines before returning after halftime wearing his warmups. 
Masoli was adamant after­ward that his knee was fine, and he jogged to the tunnel at Autzen at game's end. lie was also listed atop Oregon's depth chart for the UCLA game. 
However, he did not prac­tice Monday or Tuesday, lead­ing some to speculate the injury was more serious. On Wednesday he wore shells rather than full pads. 
Coach Chip Kelly would not comment on Masoli's injury. llis policy this season con­cerning injured players is to say they're either out or day­to-day. The Masoli case was no exception. 
The ongoing mystery over Masoli's injury is the latest drama to befall the Ducks. The team started the season with an embarrassing loss to Boise State on national televi­sion, after which running back LeGarrette Blount punched Broncos defensive end Byron llout. 
Blount was suspended for the rest of the season, but last week Kelly said it was possible for him to return if he met certain academic and behavioral conditions. 
Masoli's injury brought back bad memories for many Duck fans who saw their team vying for a national championship when lleisman candidate Dennis Dixon went down with a knee injury. 
In fact, knee injuries to Oregon's quarterbacks have caused some to speculate whether the spread option offense puts mobile QBs at increased risk. 
Masoli was just coming into his own after a slow start. In Oregon's last two games, vie­torios over California and the Cougars, Masoli has complet­ed 35 of 43 passes for four touchdowns and no intercep­tions. He has also rushed for 
73 yards and a touchdown over the span. 
Costa, who has missed the past two seasons because of knee injuries, took over after Masoli was knocked out by Washington State. 
Earlier this season when Masoli was struggling with his passing game, fans called for Costa, who is more of a traditional quarterback. 
''I'm eompletely confident in Nate. Those guys battled and competed in fall camp and they're both great foot­ball players and if they weren't, they wouldn't be 
here, center Jordan Holmes said. 
Also injured for the Ducks this week was eornerback Willie Glasper, who will miss the rest of the season because of a right knee injury that will require surgery. 
Glasper was injured Tuesday at practice. He had been starting for cornerback Walter Thurmond III, who is also out for the season because of a knee injury. 
He finishes his career at Oregon with 65 tackles, one fumble recovery and one interception. 

., presents 


The Hibernian Lecture 
Squaring Circles': Daniel O'Connell and Public Protest, 1823-1843 
Maurice Brie University College ofDublin 
Friday, October 9. 2009 4:00p.m. 
Hesburgh Library, Carey Auditorium 

STUDENT RUSH See THE WEDDING SINGER for an 80's price when dressed in 80's attire! Just $20* per ticket! WITH YOUR STUDENTID 
~It

...._.~:~~~[STARTS FRIDAY! 
morriscenter.org • 574.235.9190 
Tickets at the Morris Center Box Office. For group rates, caii1.866.31.GROUP 


Thursday, October 8, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NHL 
Coyotes shut out defending chatnps 
Bryzgalov's 24 saves, Prucha's goal lead Phoenix over Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh tried but failed to the second period. Seconds
Associated Press 
start a season 3-0 for the first before that, Malkin was open at 
PITTSBURGH -The Stanley time since 1995, giving little the side of the net but fumbled Cup champion Pittsburgh support to Brent Johnson. He the puck and couldn't get a shot Penguins ' first bad game of the made 22 saves in his first start off. season was more than that. It for the Stanley Cup champions, Not much was expected this was Coyote ugly. and hardly could be blamed for season from the Coyotes, who 
Petr Prucha was knocked off one of the Penguins' worst are in financial limbo with the his skates in front of the net but efforts under coach Dan Bylsma. franchise's future unsettled. still pushed the puck into the net "I don't think our guys went Dave Tippett replaced Wayne while down on a Penguins play­into the game with a lackadaisi­Gretzky as coach late in training er's back in the second period, cal effort," Bylsma said. "I don't camp, yet the Coyotes have and the Phoenix Coyotes took think they weren't focused on outscored their first two oppo­advantage of nine power plays playing. When you don't exe­nents 9-3. to beat Pittsburgh 3-0 on cute, you're not paying attention "I thought our speed and com­Wednesday night. to details, and your brain's not petitiveness drew some of the 
Ilya Bryzgalov made 24 saves, focused on what's coming at you penalties," Tippett said. "We only a handful of them difficult, and making the right play." really fed off the energy of play­as the Penguins played a flat, The Penguins were constantly ing against the Stanley Cup error-filled and uninspired game a step behind the play, drawing champions." before leaving on a difficult five­unnecessary penalties while Earlier in the second, Prucha game road trip that begins allowing Phoenix to grab the improvised to score an odd but Thursday in Philadelphia. early momentum and never give important goal. Skating toward 
"We weren't able to get a it up. Pittsburgh drew the first the net, Prucha collided with whole lot going. There's no real three penalties, and Jovanovski Mark Eaton and was knocked excuse for it, we weren't good at took advantage of Evgeni off his skates, but, landing on all, but we've got to move on," Malkin's double-minor high­Eaton's back in front of the net, captain Sidney Crosby said. sticking penalty to beat Johnson controlled Radim Vrbata's 
Ed Jovanovski also scored on with a hard wrist shot from the rebound and steered the puck a power play for Phoenix, which right circle off Shane Doan's past Johnson at 10:47. is 2-0 with one game remaining cross-ice pass at 9:07 of the Pittsburgh's Brooks Orpik was on a season-opening road trip first. off for hooking. that began with a 6-3 victory at "We had a lot of penalties in "I was just waiting for a Los Angeles. Last season, the first period, and some guys rebound or a tap-in in front of Coyotes managed only 30 points weren't able to get out there and the net and I fell down," Prucha on the road, the fewest in the get into it," Crosby said. "As a said. "Vrby tried to score from Western Conference, and won whole, we didn't play well no the goal line and I just took the successive games away from matter what they did, whether rebound while I was sitting on home twice. they were aggressive or tried to the ice." 
"Facing the defending Stanley close things up. It still comes About four minutes later, Alex Cup champions, it was a big down to what we do, and we Goligoski appeared to score challenge for us and I think we didn't do a whole lot." from the high slot for Pittsburgh, played well," Bryzgalov said. Bryzgalov didn't have to make but teammate Matt Cooke had "It's a good turning point for us. his first tough save until stop­been called for interference a The team has confidence right ping Ruslan Fedotenko's shot off moment before and the goal was now." a rebound in the final minute of waved off. 

MLB 
Yankees victorious In series opener 
Sabathia gives up one, strikes out eight in outing; Jeter, Rodriguez drive in runs for N.Y. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Derek Jeter got a big hit, just as he did in Octobers past at the famed ballpark across the street. CC Sabathia joined in the postsea­son fun. Even Alex Rodriguez broke out of his playoff rut. 
It was like old times in the first postseason game at the new Yankee Stadium, with New York beating these tired Minnesota Twins 7-2 Wednesday in the opener of their AL playoff series. 
"Just like the old place," Jeter said. "We couldn't have drawn it up any better for us." 
After Jeter's third-inning homer off loser Brian Duensing drew New York even at 2, Nick Swisher pulled a go-ahead dou­ble down the left-field line in the fourth that scored Robinson Cano from first as the Twins made a pair of poor throws. 
Rodriguez had gone 0 for 29 in the postseason with runners on base dating to Game 4 of the 2004 AL championship series before chasing Duensing with an RBI single that made it 4-2 in the fifth. 
On a night with sustained winds blowing to right-center at 20 mph, with gusts up to 43 mph, Hideki Matsui followed with a two-run homer into Monument Park on left-bander Francisco Lirano's fourth pitch. The Yankees celebrated like kids, just as the Twins did when they beat Detroit in an AL Central tiebreaker at the Metrodome on Tuesday night. New York went on to win its first playoff game since Joe Girardi replaced Joe Torre as manager after the 2007 sea­son. 
Rodriguez added another run-scoring single in the sev­enth against Jon Rauch follow­ing an error by first baseman Michael Cuddyer, with A-Rod's drive hitting halfway up the right-field wall. 
Once the Yankees got the lead, Sabathia made it stand up in his Yankees postseason debut. 
"This is what you come here for," Sabathia said. "It was electric tonight." 
Minnesota didn't arrive at its hotel until nearly 4 a.m. and appeared to lack the energy that propelled the Twins during a 17-4 finish, which overcame a seven-game division deficit. The teams get a day off before resuming Friday night, when 
A.J. Burnett pitches for the Yankees against Nick Blackburn. New York will be trying to get off to its first 2-0 postseason start since 1999 against Texas. 
Casey Stengel hit the first postseason home run across the street at original Yankee Stadium, an inside-the-parker that gave the New York Giants a 5-4 win in the 1923 World Series opener. 
It was Jeter, naturally, who hit the first home run in the Yankees' $1.5 billion palace, where New York was a major league-best 57-24 at home dur­ing the regular season. 
"You get a two-run lead quick, and as soon as you go back out, it's a 2-2 ballgame with a homer," Twins manager Ron Gardenhire said. "That's a little deflating." 
The captain also got New York's first hit, was on base four times with two hits and two walks, and scored three runs. 
"That's Derek Jeter at this time of the year," Girardi said. 
New York won all seven games against the Twins dur­ing the season, and was 23-3 at home against Minnesota during the regular season from 2002 on, but the Yankees had split four home games against Minnesota in the playoffs in 2003 and 2004. 
After getting past the Twins in 2004 and taking a 3-0 lead against Boston in the ALCS, the Yankees lost 13 of their next 17 


postseason games. To rebuild

STUDENTS WITH A MA~OR, 
their rotation, the Yankees signed Sabathia and Burnett

MINORs OR CONCENTRATION 
for a combined $243.5 million. Sabathia, who had lost his

IN ~lED I£\(AL STUDIES 
last three playoff decisions for Cleveland and Milwaukee, did­n't disappoint. Wearing long sleeves on the blustery night, 

STUDY'IN 
he got past a 22-pitch first inning and found a sharp cut­ter. Sabathia allowed one

ST. ANDREltfS. SCOTLAND 
earned run and eight hits in 6 2-3 innings, striking out eight and walking none. 

SPRIXG. 2011 
He left with two on after 113 pitches, tipping his hat to a ballpark record crowd of 49,464 that included actress Kate Hudson and rapper Jay-Z. 



Phil Hughes came in and struck out Orlando Cabrera , one of the Twins' tiebreaker stars, in a 10-pitch at-bat. 
FORMATION 
Duensing, a left-bander who was pitching for the U.S. in the 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 12 6:00PM 
Olympics last year, made just nine starts during his rookie season but was on the mound following the Twins' busy pen­nant race run. He gave up five 

715 HE.SBUR&.H LIBRARY 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/-ois 
runs and seven hits in 4 2-3 innings. 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Team fights breast cancer 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

The Irish are fighting for a cause this weekend as they host a "Dig Pink" match Sunday against Louisville to raise breast cancer awareness and benefit the Side-Out Foundation and the Secret Sisters Society of South Bend. 
"Breast cancer is something that has affected so many people," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "Everyone on the team has had someone in their lives affected by this dis­ease. It is an important cause that's close to all of us, espe­cially since it affects women so prominently." 
This is the third year that the Irish (9-4) have hosted a match to help the battle against breast cancer, the past two years holding "Dig For the Cure" events to bene­fit the Susan G. Komen For the Cure group. In 2007, Notre Dame raised $6,000 for the group and over that amount in 2008. 
Not only did the Irish choose to become involved in the bat­tle against breast cancer because it affects so many women, but also because one of their players' mothers was undergoing chemothrerapy during the 2007 season. 2008 grad Mallorie Croal's mother was diagnosed in 2006, and after a long fight with the dis­ease, was recovering by the time of the 2008 match. 
This year, the Irish are ally­ing with the Side-Out Foundation, an organization established in 2004 to raise money and awareness about breast cancer through volley­ball. Much like a side-out occurs when one team wins a point while its opponent is serving, and therefore recov­ers the serve and control of play, the group uses the name "Side-Out" to support those fighting cancer and help them regain control of their own lives. 
Dig Pink is a breast cancer awareness rally held across the country throughout October to raise awareness and funds. Hundreds of high school and college matches are played across the country to help educate and raise funds to wipe out the disease and allow those affected by it to fight back. A few of Side­Out's goals this year are to raise $1,000,000 and have 3,000 teams participate in Dig Pink matches throughout the year. So far," they have a total 755 teams participating, including 270 colleges and 471 high schools. 
"Each of the players has been asked to try to find 10 people to go online and donate, either a pledge for digs or a solitary donation," Brown said. "They're doing all kinds of things to raise aware­ness and get people to the match. The more people there are the better it will be. Our goal is to raise $10,000." 
Notre Dame is also part­nered with the Secret Sisters Society of South Bend, a group Brown was excited to join forces with her team. The Secret Sisters Society allows low-income women, ages 40­49, to receive a screening mammogram that they would not otherwise have the ability to pay for. These women all would qualify for the existing Breast and Cervical Cancer Program and receive a mam­mogram once they reach 50. 
However, the Secret Sisters Society believes in early detection and raises funds and partners with St. Joseph's Hospital to help save women's lives by making screening mammograms available to these women. 
This weekend, the team will be showing their support on the court by wearing white jerseys with pink letters and numbers. Louisville had their own "Dig For the Cure" match last week and will be sporting pink jerseys on Sunday. Free "Dig Pink" shirts will be given to early arrivals, while pink Crocs and another "Dig Pink" T-shirt will be sold at the event with all proceeds bene­fitting breast cancer research. 
Notre Dame will also be holding a silent auction, and Brown will be pledging $5 per dig made by her Irish players. A portion of the proceeds will benefit the Secret Sisters Society, and online donations can be made to the Side-Out Foundation at: https://www.side­out.org/application/teams/tea m_page/1 :301 
"Louisville is our biggest conference rival and the team will be fired up anyway," Brown said. "This just gives an extra significance to the match. We'd be excited no matter who we were up against. We think it's a great cause." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiOI @saintmarys.edu 
PRESIDENTS CUP 
U.S. favorites as competition begins 
Invite 
continued from page 24 

Championships in Pacific Palisades, Calif. Frilling and senior Kali Krisik, ranked No. 15 in preseason doubles rank­ings, will also play in the tour­nament. The two form a new No. 1 doubles team for the Irish, and Louderback said playing together this early will benefit them. 
"It is great for them to get exposure since they haven't played together against the top doubles teams," he said. "It is good exposure for them to get that good competition early." 
Frilling will open the singles tournament Thursday against No. 13 Reka Zsilinszka of Duke. Last season, Frilling beat the Blue Devil 6-4, 6-2, when the teams met in a dual meet in March. 
Frilling and Krisik will begin the doubles competition facing the No. 7 duo from Tennessee of senior Caitlin Whoriskey and sophomore Natalie Pluskota. Whoriskey and Pluskota knocked Frilling and then-senior Kelcy Tefft out of the NCAA Doubles Championship last spring. 
"By playing a NCAA semifi­nal team right off the bat, it'll be good to see how [Frilling and Krisik[ do against that tough competition," Louderback said. 
While Frilling and Krisik represent Notre Dame on the national level, the rest of the team healthy enough to play will do so on the regional level Friday at the Wildcat Fall Invitational. 
Seniors Colleen Hielley and Cosmina Ciobanu, junior Kristen Hafael and freshman Christine McGaffigan will play at the invitational against eight Midwestern teams, including Big East foe DePaul. 
"We are taking the whole team [to Northwestern] but [Rielley, Ciobanu, Hafael, and McGaffigan] are the only ones healthy enough to play right now." 
The tournament should give the Irish a chance to shake off months of rust, Louderback said. 
"A few of them played a lit­tle over the summer, but some of them haven't played match­es since the NCAA tournament in May," Louderback said. "We use the fall just to go play in some of the individual tourna­ments to give the kids a chance to get some match experience." 
By the end of the weekend, Notre Dame should have some of that match experience, including challenging matches against the strongest competi­tion in the country. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO-Ernie Els spoke to the state of the Presidents Cup when he sized up the pairings for the opening session at Harding Park and spelled out a best-case sce­nario for the International team. 
"If we can get out tied tomorrow," he said, "I think we've had a great day." 
That was a step up from his previous assessment -any­thing better than its last start would be an improvement. Two years ago at Royal Montreal, the Americans didn't lose a match on the opening day in building a five-point lead, and the cup effectively was over. 
Then again, it's been that way for more than a decade. 
The International team shows up with mighty creden­tials -some believe it is the best team of a Presidents Cup or Ryder Cup -yet it rarely goes home with the gold tro­phy. Its only victory came 11 years ago in Australia. It has never won on American soil. 
Perhaps that will change in the role as underdogs. 
"Maybe it will take the pres­sure off us," Retief Goosen said. "And we can just go play." 
The eighth edition of the Presidents Cup begins 
Thursday with six foursomes matches that were put togeth­er by captains Fred Couples and Greg Norman, both of whom conceded they could have done just as well drawing names from a hat. 
It starts with Phil Mickelson and Anthony Kim, a successful team at the Ryder Cup last year, going against Tim Clark and Mike Weir. Bringing up the rear is Goosen and PGA cham­pion Y.E. Yang against Justin Leonard and Jim Furyk. 
Perhaps the most compelling match is Tiger Woods and Steve Stricker against Geoff Ogilvy and 18-year-old Ryo Ishikawa, the youngest player in the history of this event, and the player with more victories than anyone on the International team over the last year. 
Ishikawa is used to the com­motion. He played with Woods and Lee Westwood the first two days of the British Open. 
"They are going to be very strong," Ishikawa said. "But golf is a game that you just never know what will happen. I'm going to do my best and play hard until the end, and hopefully we can come out vic­torious." 
Couples said the pairings were easy to make, and it was tough to fmd a dull match. 
"With 24 of the top players in the world, you're not going to get a bad pairing in the Presidents Cup," he said. 
Most of those top players are dressed in red, white and blue this week. 
Even though the International side has four players with multiple majors -Els, Goosen, Vijay Singh and Angel Cabrera -Ogilvy is the only player among the top 1 0 in the world. 
Seven players have not won a tournament this year, includ­ing Singh and captain's pick Adam Scott. 
"We normally come here with a very good team on paper, and it seems like this year, some of us haven't played that great," Els said. "We feel like we are underdogs, and I think we kind of want to prove something this week." 
They have been loose as ever, and so have their oppo­nents. 
The Americans always look as though they are having a good time at the Presidents Cup, perhaps because they usually are winning. The extra dimension this week has been the appearance of Michael Jordan, who is an honorary assistant captain. 
He has dressed in a team uniform, smoking his cigar until city officials caught wind of it and asked the tour to remind Jordan that smoking is banned at Harding Park. 


eat tresh 



r----­
Thursday, October 8, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 



f.!i<. ~~~ 
.
M.

t •r $) I I 

• 
SIGN YOUR IRISH ROW OR IRISH CROSSINGS LEASE NOW FOR 2010-2011. 

livejust east of the NO athletic fields, near every convenience -friends, fun, food and campus. 
Besides our great location. our furnished apartments and townhornes for rent include: 
• 
Private full bath in each bedroom " 40" flat panel HDTV 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations. including HBO 


~  Laundry room with washer & dryer in each unit  
..  FREE use of lnsh Row Fitness Center  
"  Tanning  


.. Secured access to each building 
All this at one of the best rents in town. 
We're now leasing for the 2010-2011 school year. 
Irish [4
Contact Karie Miller at kariern@lrishRowApartments.com ROW 
Brophy 
continued from page 24 
stroke victory. Tulane and Arizona also finished ahead of Notre Dame. 
Boilermaker Maude-Aimee LeBlanc took medalist honors, edging out Michigan's Ashley Bauer by a stroke at five­under. Tulane's Linn Gustafsson and Purdue's 
Junthima Gulyanamitta fin­ished third and fourth. 
The Irish will return to South Bend before heading to Knoxville, Ten n. where they will face an even stronger field made up almost entirely of top­25 teams at the Mercedes Benz Collegiate Championship, a three-day tournament which begins Oct. 16. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Shutout 
continued from page 24 
the half, with senior goalie Andrew Quinn making a save on the only shot on goal by either team, made by Marquette's Robb Ryan. 
When the squads came out of the locker room after half­time, the Irish were a differ­ent team. 
Senior forward Tamba Samba recorded his first goal of the year in the 48th minute to give Notre Dame a 1-0 advantage. 
"I think that really settled it," Clark said. "Then we scored a beautiful goal." 
That came six minutes later, when senior forward Bright Dike scored his sev­enth of the year. 
"It was a very nice inter­ception by [senior midfielder] Michael Thomas initially, then [sophomore midfielder] Brenden King swung a very delicate curving cross ball and Dike glanced it over the goalkeeper," Clark said. "It was a good goal, very pretty." 
The Irish made a total of 11 shots in the second half, com­pared to just four in the first. 
Golden Eagle goalie Matt Pyzdrowski outdid himself with five saves in that second period, without which the game may have become a blowout. 
"After the goals it was real­ly just a matter of running out the game," Clark said. "We did have some more chances to really put it away, but the two goals were good enough." 
The game was Notre Dame's fourth shutout of the season. In fact, the Irish have yet to allow more than two scores in a game. 
"I thought the defense was solid," Clark said. "Who I thought did really well was [senior midfielder] Justin Morrow. He was dangerous and caused a lot of problems to Marquette." 
Wednesday's defensive effort was aided by the return of sophomore defend­er Aaron Maund, who had been away at the Under-20 World Cup in Egypt. Despite having just landed in the States on Monday morning, Maund played all 90 minutes for the Irish. Freshman ·mid­fielder Dillon Powers, also returning from the U-20 World Cup, played 20 min­utes. 
"Considering they just got back from Egypt on Monday it was good to get them some playing time," Clark said. "They did welL" 
This type of win is becom­ing all too familiar for the Irish. 
In 11 games this season, the Irish have scored a total of 21 goals. Just four of those have come in the first period, while 17 have come in the second. 
The Irish have 93 total shots in the second half, com­pared with 62 in the first. They have allowed opponents just 48 shots in the second half. 
It works -so far -and Clark said he isn't too wor­ried about fixing it. 
"It's a tough travel week for us," he said. "We won't really have time for practice between now and Providence. It's more trying to get the boys to recover." 
Notre Dame will travel to Rhode Island Saturday to take on the Friars. That game is scheduled to start at 1 p.m. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
or 574.2776666 for deta!ls. 
lrishRowApartments.com t 574.277.6666
You can visit us at our leasing office at Vaness and Burdette 
l85f, Van!.~ss S!retll. South Bend. Indiana 46G37
Streets or at www.lrishRowApartments.com. 
I
I I 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 8, 2009 
I 
I Weasels 
continued from page 24 

who has had remarkable suc­cess in her first season at the position. 
"She's really hit her stride," Curley said. 
In preparing for such a strong Purple Weasels team, Badin will reevaluate its strengths and weaknesses. 
"Practice is back to funda­mentals," senior captain Kelley Daniels said. "We're trying to cause turnovers with our defense ... and build a more cohesive offense." 
The Bullfrogs, quarterbacked by sophomore Carli Fernandez, stayed competitive through adversity last week, and the connection between Fernandez and sophomore receiver Ashley Okonta can keep Badin within striking range of any game. 
The Bullfrogs' defense will feature the hard-working sophomore linebacker Rachel Cink and sophomore all-pur­pose player Kelsey Brennan. 
"Kelsey's really taken on a leadership role," Daniels said. "She's very valuable on defense." 
Thursday's matchup will be a critical measure of both teams' ability to improve and respond to circumstances. 
"We're keeping our heads up" Daniels said. "We're ready for a win, ready to get out pride back." 
Badin will try for a long­sought win against unbeaten Pasquerilla West at 7 p.m. at Riehle Field tonight. 
Cavanaugh vs. Lyons 

When Lyons and Cavanaugh square off tonight, both teams will look to put one in the win column after two consecutive losses. 
Due to a disproportionate amount of underclassmen on both squads, team chemistry and in-game experience have been issues. 
"Because we have a lot of young players, we have been working on developing team chemistry," Lyons senior quar­terback and captain Claire Connell said. "We need to make sure we are all in sync on offense and defense in order to play to our full poten­tial." 
Cavanaugh senior captain Jessica Mahon expressed a similar sentiment 
"One of the challenges of having a team that is com­prised of mostly underclass­men is getting them to realize how serious this team is and what the Cavanaugh Chaos is all about," Mahon said. 
The winless Lions (0-2) are hungry to end a game victori­ously for the first time this sea­son. 
"Everyone is eager for a win," Connell said. 
Lyons will look to senior quarterback Marie Petnuch to step in for the injured Connell tonight. 
"We have complete confi­dence in [Petnuch's] ability to lead us to a win," Connell said. 
Petnuch will face a Chaos (1­
2) team looking to turn the season around for a playoff run. 
"We are very well aware we need to win out [to reach the playoffs]," Mahon said. "There is no doubt it my mind that we are going to make it happen." 
The Chaos look to shut down Lyons behind the defense of senior linebacker Ezinne Ndukwe and junior defensive back Sara Harker. 
"Everyone is fired up and eager to show everyone we are a force to be reckoned with," Mahon said. 
The Chaos and the Lions will meet tonight at Riehle Field at 9 p.m. 
Ryan vs. Pangborn 
The newly-christened Wildcats of Ryan will look to live up to their new nickname when they challenge Pangborn tonight. 
In its inaugural year as a dorm and a team on the foot­ball field, Ryan (1-1) fields a talented team with a potent rushing attack. This week, sen­ior captain Kenzie Bowen said the Wildcats will look to bal­ance their offense with a pass­ing attack. 
"We've really been working on improving our passing game," Bowen said. 
On the other side of the ball, Bowen anchors the defensive line. The Wildcats have stuffed opponents using a motto of "team first." 
"We're all about the team aspect over here," Bowen said. "There are no one player efforts. We do everything as a team." 
The Phoxes (1-2) feature a standout dual-threat quarter­back in junior Gabbi Tate. Tate spearheads a precision passing offense looking to deliver the ball to standout senior receiver Meghan Bescher. 
"Meghan is one of the most amazing athletes I've seen in my life," Tate said. "If we could we'd have her play almost every position." 
Bescher not only lines up in the slot position to receive passes from Tate, but she also takes the snap from center. This shows just how seriously Pangborn takes its football, Tate said. 
''I'd say we're one of the more intense teams in the league and we're all very excit­ed to make a statement this week," she said. 
Ryan also looks to take the next step with their new pro­gram. 
"This should be a great matchup between two solid teams," Bowen said. "We're going to give it our best and hopefully come out on top." 
Kickoff will be at 8 p.m. at Riehle Field tonight. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at khald­wi2@nd.edu, Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu and Colin King at cking6@nd.edu 

Evans 
continued from page 24 

injury was, he knew what it meant for him. 
"I knew it was time for me to step up," he said. "And that's what I've been trying to do the last couple of games." 
After no catches against Nevada in the season opener, Evans had two for 15 yards against Michigan, and one for 12 yards against Purdue, before breaking out against Washington with career highs of four catches for 34 yards. 
"The first play I got in the Nevada game, I was kind of shaking," Evans said. "But the last couple of games I've gone out there confident, relaxed. When you relax it's easier." 
In addition to calming down, Evans said the increased playing time has also helped his development. 
"The last couple of games, I've been getting more and more reps, so I'm picking it up even better," Evans said. 
Despite the fact that Floyd isn't able to help on the lield, 
Evans  said  that  he  has  
almost become like  a  coach  
to him.  

"Even though he's been injured, he's been helping me a lot," Evans said. "Just pick­ing me up when I'm down, helping me line up, and run crisp routes." 
Weis said multiple times that after Floyd was lost for the season, it would take more than just one receiver to take his place. Senior Robby Parris, junior Duval Kamara, sophomores Deion Walker and John Goodman, as well as Evans, would all have to step up their games. Each receiver brings some­thing different to the table. 
"I just feel like I open up the offense more with my speed," Evans said. 
Unfortunately, one of the most memorable plays involving Evans so far this season was one he didn't make, missing a third down pass on an out route from junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen late against Michigan. It looked like Evans didn't get his head around in time to look for the ball, and a catch likely would have sealed an Irish win. 
Evans, though, said that he 
THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FILM SERIES 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8TH 
7:00 PM, Browning Cinema 
DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
KOROL LIR (KING LEAR) 
Directed by Grigori Kozintsev With music by Dmitri Shostakovich 
FILM INTRODUCTION BY BARBARA HODGDON Professor of English. University of Michigan Distinguished Professor Emerita. Drake University Author of The Shakespeare Trade: Performances and Appropriations 
Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff. $4 senior citizens. $3 all students. 574~631*2800 Iperformingarts.nd.edu Co-sponsored by the Nanovic lMtitute for European Studies, 
Shakespeare at Notre Dame. and the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 

~ SHAKESPEARE ~AT NOTRE DAME 
took the mistake as a learn­ing experience. 
"We don't like to blame it on anybody," he said. "But as a freshman I learned that on third down in a crucial game like that, you've just got to break the route off a little early, especially when they hav~. all those people in the box. 
He added that, since then, he has been breaking his routes of early on third down, as evidenced by a cou­ple of key catches against Washington. 
While every Notre Dame player undoubtedly wants to beat USC next week, Evans has a motivation beyond sim­ply school pride. A native of Inglewood, Calif., he had originally committed to the Trojans before switching to Notre Dame after his official visit to South Bend. Even though he almost ended up on the other sidelines, Evans said there's no love lost for Pete Carroll's squad. 
"It's the hometown team, and I just want to beat them," Evans said. "I want to beat USC." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


EUROPEAN SHAKESPEARE 

($1UN1VERSITYOF 
WNOTREDAME 

----------------, 
Thursday, October 8, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
60 Overused soap opera plot device 
61 Not to the point, say 
62 Swordplay, e.g. 63 Runs down 64 Sack and others 
Down 1 Have heat 2 Ending with buck 3 _place 4 Item on a chain 5 Twin Tony 
whose #6 jersey was retired 6 *Auto accessory 
7 Sioux Falls-to­Cedar Rapids dir. 
8 Dwell 9 Soft drink since 
1924 10 Liquide clair 11 _Taylor 
(clothier) 12 *Crewman on the tail of a 
bomber 13 Corner 14 Fictional Mr. 20 *"Cheers!" ... or 
a hint to answering this puzzle's five starred clues 
23 Sweat 24 "Aha!" 25 "My dear fellow" 26 One in an affair 
27 Holder of a black marker 
28 *1968 Barbra Streisand starring role 
31 Purchase by Mr. Fix·lt 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by C.W. Stewart 

32 Lock 49 Beneficiary 55 Highest score in baccarat
35 *Beef cut 

50 Opposite of up 
56 Comedian's 

37 Chopped 51 You might catch stock
38 Kansas town on 
one near a 
58 Fed. purchasingthe Neosho beach

River org. 41 Fake blood, 52 Chocolate brand 59 Kipling novel maybe 
60 Hyperactivity 43 Skiffs and scows may be a sign of 
54 Goddess who restored Osiris 
45 Fountain orders to life it, for short 
For answers, call 1·900·285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7·ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Ct;J_,t;!UlOlf.S J~OttN ON HUS JJAY: Sha\\11 A>li!llr>re ..lO: 'lltmu York<·. -II: 1hm Braxton. -1:!; Sim<>n CowelL 50 
Happy Jllrlhday: Yon "'"Y have m do !lungs behind nt!.lC!>' bach tln~ y~;<r if you wam to <~Chicvc ~our IIU~lilon •ml <~W.>id <:mnp!amls a1.~J imerkrct~Cc. Com:cntrntc nn whar really counh a1~l ~trive !<lf the balaon: you U<"C<i in yo•.u lik iu <min I<> lixl wnlmt. '"'*''' your b(ml<: and a~>~eh. Yout'tnm111t--r. an:A, U, 18, 20. :~2 •.\5Al 
ARJFS (\tanh 2!->\prU l9l: Ymtll Ill' fa<:illJ! rroubk for uorpnlliug ymu· weirhl aronn<i home. A change an 1hc w:ly ~ouh~·onc \\'>IBlt's. ~uncthin¥. €1m tty wlU c:<lUs(~ ·sou:JC t.'l:mccrn. f>.on~t share s~-c:rt~*-' or let 0111ers ill ou your htture plan~. **** 
T<\CRt.'S iAprll10.l\-tay 201: ,\job lh~l can!Je don~: frcnn h<ltne witlj!~l far more anention. brin~in~ h~Ue:l' re~mlts, An intt.~~lin~ conv~~.ation \Vlth snrneoue who cau influence your ~dvancement will help you a,se;;s your simarim1 and Jhtttn:. *** 
(;EMU..'l (May 21-Ju~ 20i: S<!meorw }'!JU thooght yoo could count on will di~ppoillt you. Fr .. ·us '"'what you <'au d<1 to get ahe:ad pro(~·ssim~llly and pot! any flC!><»Ml motters a silk null! Y'~t :tre ill a l>en~r po~ition 10 ~'I r:tlim!ally. *** 
C ,\NCf;R (,jun~ 2:1-July 211: Make SOtttc Utiuor ch~llll"' ru your home. Adjnslmen~< lo the. way yon do tltin!!s both pemmal!y and professitmal!y will stimulate the p~ss of your pwF<;ts and enhmK:e your resn.lts. * * * 
LEO I July 23-Aug. ll): Suck to your !lame plan and dmn be tempt~d to try tn tmpress W!l1<.'>1!te by promhilltot tlw impossible, You may haw to t<Jkc a sllon tnp or spend uncx jJected time in tronsil or doin!! reser;rch. AtX'llr.tcy will be uuport,.nt if you w•unto pr<>tect yNu-reputation. ** 
vnu;o {,\ug.l;\-.'l~pt.ll): Spark a couver,;m.imt \l>ith >onteOne you1ru:e1 ancl t-ommou !!fOUnd will lead lo ij "'--"W friendship. A rmnamk ,\letaway should be amoll!! your pbns. Visit somtKllte youre.~pect who will !dtc<lli-!(111 (m a silllatiou you face.***** 
UIUU.t&!pt.l.'\..{k1. 22): There is more ~toing 011 se~:retivety tllau you realu.e. A chm!<:e to nlake &cute inqm•vemems to your resideu.:e or to pnrdlas.< property will add to your assets. An idea you haw w1ll do better if yoo brill(! on board somt'<llll; you ban: wm-ted with sue· ces.fully in tlte tllt$1. *** 
SCORPIO (01?1.2.1-No\-. ll): ·n.., nrore actively you are in\'nl\'ed in a can"" or group you enjoy, lhe greater yonr dtauce. of t;cttin~ IO)l.elher wiil! "'-lllretme who atlds value to one of your pll~""ls or your t-.ersnMllife. Any oppornmity lo trawl or en!'-a¥" in different culture• will.:ontributelo what you do ard who you are,*** 
SAGfl'rAlUUS (Nov, lZ.fk>e.lll: The less <.'Oilspkuom you are, the better. Keep things simple and lo tl~e point and don't eut comers. Prepare to take Ute bad with tile good wh~n it contes to home and family, Not ~very·oue wt!! agree \\ith your plam. ** * 
CAPRICORN (11fc.ll·Jan.l9J: Mak<' sure vou understand \\1tat ewrvoue else wants and i• iryin~; t<l do.lf yon are dipk1111atic, lhoughtftd and helpful, you "-illm.ike a friend instead of someone who will fight ewry stt.f!JI.esnon you make.l'ruducHvity is the lt:lntc of the )l_;tntc. 
***** 

_-\Qt'ARlUS (,Jnn.lO.l'eb. 18): Y<'tor cmotim1s wl!llrick you iutodoitlp, ~o!l~thiup, yo11 pwlJahly sh<mldn'l. Hdd olf doin~t :mythin~ witllont a 1msled friend· s qJiruon. A <ttd<ku chang" ttl your finandal ~ituatiml "'ill bdpeaw your ~n-ess.** 
PlSCt:s (tcb. l?·Man:h lOJ: \:vu'll baw f:w )!!'eal<-'r inpt~ ami <'ontn>l if you are upfnml and oplllionak'd. Getlillf! l<lj!.t'lht~ will! tri~~~d~ will insp1re you to lake auolh<•r stab at a ~-rc­ative w.nuc yon have tricJ to laundlmthc p<1st **** 
Birthday 8uby: You are woiK aml ltonte-orieuled. You are pm.:ti<:al. enga;:in)l :md willm)l to p:iW your "ll tr.• au~1hin!! )lOti umsi<kr worthwhile. 
CROSSWORD 
Across English poet Coventry_, who wrote ''The Angel in the House" 8 Where ''Thy will be done," in a 
prayer 15 Parts of irises 16 Cheap cafe 17 Scheme 18 Like outcasts 19 Balkan land 20 Canadian prov. 
on Atlantic Time 21 Previously called 22 Desert water 
source 24 Big 12 sch. 26 Bleed (for) 29 It can turn up 
heads 30 Rifle part 33 Skate part 34 Profitability, for a 
business 35 Not just a brat 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
36"_always say 
37 Popular newspaper columnist who writes for Good Housekeeping 
39 Sense of ''wow" 40 Tricky highway 
maneuvers 42 fault 43 Checks for 
accuracy 44 Where a hole may develop 45 Town in W.W. II headlines 46 Counterpart of Thanatos, in Freudian 
psychology 47 Not here 48 Stashes 50 Plant bristle 52 Tiny bit 53 Not authentic 57 World capital 
known locally as Krung Thep Mahanakhon 


WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK
SCHAD & FREUDE 
JEFF KNUREK 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jell KntJrek

~J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one Jetter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LICCO 
1 

rJ I I 
if12009 T;ib\lne Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserwd.  
HARGIS  *  
1  rJ  WHAT THE RETIREE NEEDED WHEN HE  
DECIDED TO TAKE  
PICTES  UP GOl-F.  
rJ 1  [)  Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.  

Print answer here: A" [I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: WHINE POACH IMPORT FAMOUS Answer: When they raced to develop the news pictures, it was a -PHOTO "FINISH" 


DAN POHLMAN 
OMG!!! TAYLOR SWIFT IS AT THE GROTTO!!!! 
).~ ~.,..o 
# ~ 
;;):B # 
... c"<"l

f$ ~~ w~ 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _______ State _____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, October 8, 2009 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Huffer, Brophy lead team to fourth place tie in Windy City 
FOOTBALL 
Instant impact 
Freshman Evans steps up after Floyd injury 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
Heading into this season, there were plenty of positions where Notre Dame was going to have to rely on younger players to step up. But wide receiver? With Michael Floyd and Golden Tate, that position seemed locked down. 
Well, one broken clavicle thrust freshman Shaquelle Evans into the spotlight as a player the Irish would rely on in 2009. 
"You can anticipate seeing [Evans] a heck of a lot more," Irish coach Charlie Weis said after Floyd's injury. 
Evans said he found out about Floyd's injury in a team meeting and, after the initial shock of how serious the 
see EVANS/page 22 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish open season at Fall Invite 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

After playing each other for the past month, the Irish will finally see some outside com­petition this wee-kend as two members of the team head to California while the rest of the team plays in the Wildcat Fall Invitational at Northwestern. 
"We have been practicing for a month now, playing just each other," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "It is time to get out and play some other teams and see some other types of games." 
Ranked at No. 20 in the pre­season polls, Sophomore Kristy Frilling will compete in the singles tournament at the Riviera/ITA All-American 
see INVITE/page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 
ND shuts out Marquette 2-0 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish might benefit from playing a 45-minute scrim­mage before the start of each game. After all, it's the second 45 minutes when they consis­tently shine. 
Notre Dame (6-4-1, 4-2-0 Big East) scored both its goals in the second half for a 2-0 victory over struggling Marquette (2-6-2, 1-3-2) Wednesday in Wisconsin. 
"It was a very good second half," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "I thought the first half we played very well. It's hard at the opposing stadium." 
The game was a 0-0 tie at 
see SHUTOUT/page 21 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Undefeated Weasels face off against Badin 
By KEVIN BALDWIN, 

MATTHEW ROBISON and 
COLIN KING 
Sports Writers 

Pasquerilla West completed the first half of its season undefeated and will be pur­suing perfection when it begins the second half of the year against Badin tonight. The Bullfrogs (0-2) are com­ing off a disappointing 29-6 loss to Walsh Sunday. 
Last week the Purple Weasels (3-0) routed Cavanaugh 30-6 with domi­nant play on both sides of the ball. 
"The key is not to fall into a midseason comfort level," senior captain Cynthia Curley said. "We're keeping the intensity up." 
The Purple Weasels' defense expects big plays out of sophomore safety Alison Lindeen, who finished the rout against the Chaos with two interceptions. Lindeen is joined on the defense by sophomore lineman Susan Bruno, a force that has sacked the quarterback at least once every game this season. 
The Pasquerilla West offense will be led by junior quarterback Simone Bigi, 
see WEASELS/page 22 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Spons Writer 
In a talented field that included seven teams ranked in the top 25, the Irish were able post a 13-over par 301 in the final round Tuesday to finish in a tie for fourth place with host Northwestern in the Windy City Collegiate Championship. 
Coming into the tournament ranked No. 70 in the NCAA, the Irish were looking to make a statement against top competi­tion, and were able to do so, moving up 23 spots in the rankings. 
"We really proved ourselves," Irish coach Susan Holt said. "I told them going in that they weren't the 70th-ranked team in the country, and they knew that, but they were the ones that had to do something about it and they were the only ones who could change it." 
The Irish started out strong on the first day of the tourna­ment, shooting a 292 which put them in a tie for third with Northwestern. Notre Dame held strong in the final two rounds, but ended up slipping into fourth, still an impressive finish considering the quality of the competition. 
Sophomore Becca Huffer paced the Irish, shooting even par for the tournament, good enough for a fifth-place finish, the highest individual finish of her career. After starting the tournament with a quadruple bogey on the first hole on her way to a two-over 74 in the first round, Huffer was able to rebound, shooting a two-under 70 in the second round. and a team-best 72 in the final round to lead the Irish. 
"(Huffer) is just a solid play­er," Holt said. "She really 
KENESEYffhe Observer Senior Bright Dike lines up a shot against Cincinnati on Sept. 27. Dike scored the second goal in the Irish's 2-0 win Wednesday. 
stepped up and responded." 
Just behind Huffer was sen­ior Annie Brophy, whose first round 69 was the team-best for the tournament and helped her finish in a tie for sixth place overall. Brophy and Huffer have been consistent all year for the Irish, leading the team in stroke average and average finish and are the only two golfers on the Notre Dame squad to shoot at or below par so far this year. 
"(Brophy) and (Huffer) really stepped it up and played great," Holt said. "They had a really good feel, and their solid play just gives us that extra confidence we need." 
Also scoring in the last round for the Irish were juniors Katie Conway and So-Hyun Park, who finished in a tie for 35th place and 66th place, respec­tively. 
"It was a good solid team performance," Holt said. "They went out and did what they had to do." 
Purdue dominated the tour­nament throughout, shooting a nine-under 279 in the first round on their way to a 14­
see BROPHY/page 21 




