
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 23 THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER24, 2009 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

College Football Hall of Fame to move to Atlanta 
South Bend mayor Stephen Luecke says change is a disappointment, presence was an asset to the community 

ByJENNMETZ 
NewsWrier 
South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke confirmed the College Football Hall of Fame will be relocated to Atlanta, Ga., and expressed disappointment about the move in a press conference Wednesday morning. 
"The Hall of Fame has been a great asset for our community, providing national exposure and contributing to the revitalization of downtown," he said. 
The National Football Foundation (NFF) sent a termi­nation notice to Luecke Tuesday and officials also traveled to South Bend to share the decision in person. 
The NFF wrote of the decision to relocate in the notice: "We take this action not because of any failure on your part, but because we now have an oppor­tunity to take the exposure of the Hall of Fame to an entirely new level." 
The news of the relocation first broke Tuesday, according to a South Bend Tribune report, when Atlanta media wrote of the deal online, citing local govern­ment and NFF sources. 
"I have deep respect and appreciation for the work that the staff of the Hall has done cre­ating a great attraction in South 
see FAME/page 4 
Provost's Office to launch 
fellowship 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The Moreau Academic Diversity Postdoctoral Fellowship, a two-year pro­gram run through the provost's office that is part of an effort to bring more diverse and female faculty to the University, is set to begin in the fall of 2010 with two fellows. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins mentioned the fellowship in his address to faculty members last Tuesday, and the fellowship will be for­mally announced in early October, Vice President and Associate Provost Don Pope­Davis said. 
"We tried to think of a non­traditional and yet effective way to try to bring people into the University," he said. "And we hope people will be inter­ested in coming here." 
The Moreau fellowship will bring two diverse post-doctor­al scholars to campus each year to conduct research proj­ects, teach classes and inter­act with academic depart­ments, Assistant Provost Susan Ohmer said. 
"They will primarily be here to work oh their research projects and to engage with 
see PROVOST/page 4 


Mendoza dean travels through Middle East 
Woo went to Afghanistan, Pakistan with Catholic Relief Services to aid disadvantaged areas 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
While many Notre Dame students spent the summer relaxing or catching up with old friends, one University fac­ulty member traveled to the Middle East to provide service to those in need. 
Dean Carolyn Woo of the Mendoza School of Business spent 10 days traveling with representatives from Catholic Relief Services through Afghanistan and Pakistan. Woo, who is a board member for the organization, went to visit countries where the group currently has programs running. 

Woo described the organiza­tion's mission as providing relief and assistance to disad­vantaged areas. The group is currently undertaking a num­ber of rebuilding efforts in Pakistan stemming from the earthquake that ravaged the country a few years ago. 
"Pakistan is still feeling the effects of the earthquake," Woo said. "We are helping with housing and education for the people in the post­earthquake Pakistan." 
Catholic Relief Services' present main objective in Afghanistan is agricultural. 
"We are trying to help bar­ren land become fruitf~l." 
Woo said. "We are introducing wheat and fruit as replace­ments for the poppy." 
Woo said that her experi­ence in these war-torn coun­tries were heartrending as well as inspirational. 
"You're not used to the type of trauma that you see there," she said. "But it's also uplift­ing to see how people's lives can be rebuilt. To see green 
see WOO/page 6 



New setvice club focuses on Honduras 
By CARLY LANDON News Writer 
Siblings Michael and Tricia Daly recently had the unique experi­ence of helping to form an organi­zation giving Honduran orphans and their community local access to state of the art surgical care through the work of their father, Dr. Peter Daly, who graduated from the University in 1982. 
Now they are giving the Notre Dame community the opportunity to get involved through their new club, Friends of the Orphans (FOTO). 
"My brother and I went to Honduras because our parents wanted to expose us to third world poverty and we ended up having a life changing experience," Saint Mary's senior and FOTO co­founder Tricia Daly said. "Through FOTO we wanted to instill that service within the students and share with everyone else here what he have learned and experi­enced." 
The club will function as one of the main fundraising arms for Nuestros Pequeiios Hermanos International (NPH), a Christian mission that provides a permanent family and home for orphaned children living in conditions of extreme poverty. 
It will also raise awareness for the group and give students an opportunity to volunteer at one of the nine NPH orphanage sites throughout the Americas. 
'These children grow up in a loving family; a very, very large loving family, and the first time you are welcomed, you become their brother or sister forever. I consider NPH as my family, and I want to expand this family by including Notre Dame and its extraordinary students," Club President and Co-Founder junior Michael Daly said. 
"FOTO is my way of showing how much I love and care about my brothers and sisters at NPH, by 
see SERVICE/page 3 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Student Senate discusses Commons page 3 • Weekend Events Calendar page 13 • Women's volleyball page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 24, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The birth 
and death of 
a dream 

Some men are motivated by money, some by fame, some by faith. My friend Pat is motivated by his desire to conquer all comers in trivial contests of will. 
Over the summer, an acquaintance of mine claimed he had eaten a ten­
Michael Blasco 
patty bacon cheese­

Sports
burger with fries 

Production
from Five Guys. If 

Editor
you haven't been, imagine the most heart attack-inducing burger you have ever seen with a side order of about three pounds of fried potato. 
Pat, the self-appointed master of eat­ing contests, immediately set a date to top the feat, aiming for twelve patties of artery-clogging glory with fries. Pat­the man who had once eaten three entrees and ice cream in one sitting at a restaurant just to spite the waiter ­had chosen a new mountaintop. 
As the day drew near, Pat had a new spring in his step. He had a goal, a mis­sion, a purpose. I found that his bound­less optimism had sucked me in. I was going to see something incredible -the will of one skinny 21-year old against three pounds of burger. 
Still, I didn't know what I would enjoy more -watching him eat the entire burger or watching him vomit $25 worth of fast food. 
One chilly Thursday night in September, Pat and a small crowd of onlookers invaded the University Park Mall Five Guys franchise. The teller who took the order couldn't believe it. 
You want how many patties? With bacon? And fries!? 
Pat threw himself into his ordeal with a naive confidence, a confidence that eroded only minutes into the contest. You could see it in his eyes; his belief that he could overcome anything -his defining characteristic -was crushed under the weight of grease, cheese, and ground beef chuck. 
Forty-five minutes after he had begun, Pat's progress had slowed to a crawl. He had eaten nine of his twelve patties, along with half of the fries. Each bite took minutes to swallow. His eyes had become glazed and bloodshot. His shoulders drooped. 
"Guys ... I really don't how much more of this burger I can eat." 
After he said those words, I realized something. I was witnessing the death of a dream -the death of what made Pat who he was. He would never be the same after this day. 
He had failed. 

Pat walked out of that Five Guys a man beaten down by his own impossible dream, and the world felt a little dim­mer to me for it. 
A few days later, Pat would learn that the boy who claimed he had eaten ten patties and an order of fries had lied. When I saw Pat that Saturday, I saw that a twinkle had returned to his eye and a grin had returned to his face. 
In a week's time, I witnessed the birth and death of a dream. I witnessed a man crushed and then reborn. And I realized that I depended on Pat's dreams as much as he did. 
Never stop dreaming, Pat. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publicarion and srrives for rhe highesr srandards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make misrakes. If we have made a misrake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR PREDICTION FOR SATURDAY'S GAME? 






Cole Johnson  Jack Flores  Tim Schumer  Jackie Oberlander  Ryan Richter  
junior  freshman  Sophomore  freshman  sophomore  
Dillon  Keenan  Alumni  Ryan  Duncan Hall  
"ND: 35  "Purdue: o  "ND: 35  "Purdue: 3  ']8-I7 ND. ,,  
Purdue: I7.  ,,  ND: 35 or 36...  Purdue: 3· ,,  ND: I7.,,  
depending on  
the weather. ,,  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

MEG SMITH/The Observer 

Race workers fill water cups for the competing runners crossing the finish line at the National Catholic Invitational cross-country meet on the Notre Dame Golf Course Friday. 
OFFBEAT 

White officer told to get rid ofcomrows 
PHILADELPHIA-Police in Philadelphia say a white officer who came to work with cornrows was ordered by a black superior to get a haircut because the braids violated department stan­dards. The Philadelphia Daily News reported Monday that Officer Thomas Strain was put on desk duty this month because of the braids, even though the paper reported dozens of black officers wear cornrows. 
Police spokesman Lt. Frank Vanore says Strain's boss told the officer to cut his hair to look more "professional." 
Vanore says officers' hats must fit "in a military man­ner" over their hair, and that Strain's hat did not. Strain got a haircut; he declined comment to the paper. 
Postal worker steals more than 30,000 DVDs 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -A former postal service employee has pleaded guilty to stealing more than 30,000 DVDs that moved through a western Massachusetts post office. 
Myles Weathers, formerly of Springfield, took DVDs that were mailed by Netflix to customers for a year begin­ning in January 2007. 
Federal prosecutors say the movie rental company alerted Springfield post office officials that a suspiciously high number of DVDs were disappearing. As many as 100 movies a week were dis­appearing. 
Weathers was arrested in February 2008 after investi­gators filmed him taking DVDs from packages and slipping them into his back­pack. 
He faces 10 months to 16 months in prison and restitu­tion costs of about $38,000 at his Dec. 23 sentencing. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

~ 
I 11 11 1 
,1,1,1,1 
.... 
I I I

e
II( 
(,) 
0 

HIGH HIGH HIGH 74 HIGH 70
...1 


LOW LOW LOW 58 LOW 54 


IN BRIEF 

A lecture titled "The John Howard Yoder Lectures in Nonviolence, Religion and Peace" will take place today from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The event will begin with a lecture followed by lunch and dialogue. It is free. 
Free flu shots will be offered today from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Stepan Center for students, staff, faculty, retirees and spouses of retirees. A current ND ID card and short sleeves are required. 
An FTT Talks lecture titled "Crazytown Incorporated" by Emmy-nominated Doug lieblien will take place today at 6 p.m. in room 160 at the Mendoza School of Business. The event is free. 
The film "Earth Days" will be shown today at 6:30 p.m. at the Browning Cinema at the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be purchased online at www.performingarts.nd.edu or by calling the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
A lecture titled "Religion, Violence and War: The State of the Debate" will take place tonight from 7 
p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The event is free. 
The Men's Soccer Team will play Louisville tomor­row at 5 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. For ticket infor­mation, call 574-631-7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH LOW 
Atlanta 82 1 69 Boston 75 I 51 Chicago 75 I 61 Denver 58 I 43 Houston 79 I 67 Los Angeles 90 I 64 Minneapolis 76 I 58 New York 80157 Philadelphia 81 I 59 Phoenix 100 I 74 Seattle 70 I 51 St. Louis 76 I 65 Tampa 92 I 75 Washington 86 I 66 
Thursday, September 24, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group honors late lacrosse coach 
Rich O'Leary's involvement in University intramural sports praised by senators 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Student Senate unanimously passed a resolution that honored lacrosse coach Rich O'Leary for his contributions to Notre Dame as well as gave updates on Eddy's Street Commons at its meeting Wednesday. 
O'Leary helped begin the intra­mural program at the University, advanced the Bengal Bouts box­ing club and was the first varsity men's lacrosse coach, Oversight Chair Kevin Kimberly said. 
O'Leary recently passed away at the age of 62 after a battle with cancer, the resolution said. 
"Rich was really a great man and a true Notre Dame man, in terms of what he did for student life on this campus. I can't think of very many people that have had the impact on students and student life as an individual as Rich did," assistant vice presi­dent for Student Affairs Brian Coughlin said. 
"I consider him a mentor per­sonally and someone to aspire to in the way he dealt with stu­dents. Truly, I am pleased that you guys are doing this and I know that it would mean a lot to Rich's family," he said. "He was a special person." 
O'Leary's involvement in intra­mural sports led Notre Dame to be given the distinction of best intramural program in the nation twice by "Sports Illustrated," the resolution said. 
It also said that in O'Leary's eight-year term as varsity men's lacrosse coach, he won five divi­sion titles. He also served as head coach of the club lacrosse team. 
"This is kind of our way of honoring what he did for Notre Dame," Kimberly said. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt also updated Senators about the progress of Eddy Street Commons. 
"Eddy Street Commons is real­ly shaping up," he said. "I think it looks really sharp and it will be a really cool area." 
In an e-mail to the student body Tuesday, Schmidt said the following businesses will be open by the middle of October: Hot Box Pizza, Chipotle, Hammes Bookstore and Cafe, Outpost Sports, Five Guys Burgers and Fries and Anytime Fitness. 
"It's really nice. They went to town on it," Keough representa­tive Marc Anthony Rosa said. "When you get there you just feel dirty because everything is so nice." 
All retail spots have not been filled, however, and Eddy Street Commons will be open to sugges­tions from students, Schmidt said. He said they are looking for retail suggestions, not restaurant suggestions. 
Current suggestions include Urban Outfitters, American Apparel and J. Crew. A beauty store that would sell popular makeup brands like Smashbox and Bare Essentials was also suggested, student body vice president Cynthia Weber said. 
"I think it's nice that students can have a sense of a little bit of ownership," Schmidt said. "I think that's important." 
Schmidt said that Eddy Street Commons does not plan to accept Domer Dollars. 
"If we were to do that we'd have to get just the concept of Domer Dollars off campus approved," he said. "You couldn't just open it up to Eddy Street Commons without opening it up to other businesses." 
Although Schmidt said Eddy Street Commons was open to the idea of accepting Domer Dollars, it was not possible because the 

German Language Study Abroad Programs 
Information Meeting 
September 28,2009 
6:00 p.m. 118 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/-ois 
University did not approve the idea. 
"That idea was not accepted last year when we proposed it," he said. 
Senators concluded their meet­ing by taking a group trip to visit Eddy Street Commons and eat dinner at Chipotle. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Service 
continued from page 1 
sharing with everyone the good news of God's present-day mira­cle, NPH, " he said. 
Michael and Tricia embarked on the process of getting this club founded two years ago, when they were freshmen and sophomores, respectively. 
With the help of Mary Kate Havlik, Coordinator of Student Programs at the Office of Student Activities, and club treasurer Michael Baer, a junior, the Dalys began working on forming a con· stitution, planning future events, contacting the International Friends of the Orphans and organ· izing future service learning pro­grams to the orphanages. 
Finally, after two successful learning trips where Notre Dame students visited the NPH orphan­ages and a two-year battle to gain club status, they got their answer and FOTO got its club certification. 
"I feel that when more and more students experience the amazing love and power of the orphanages the news will spread like wildfire through the student body. We have already obtained many support­ers, but I know we can have more," Baer said. "By next year, I want the whole campus to know and want to serve through FOTO." 
Tricia Daly echoes Baer's hope for further involvement. 
"I would really like to encourage Notre Dame alumni to get involved," Tricia said. "FOTO's mission can be achieved through any help the Notre Dame commu· nity has to offer." 
FOTO saw a promising turnout last night at its first meeting in Geddes Hall's Center for Social Concerns. The Dalys, along with FOTO, invite all students to get involved through donations and volunteering their time. 
Contact Carly Landon at dandonl@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 24, 2009 
Saint Mary's aids Invisible Children 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary's Editor 

Several Saint Mary's students have decided to take action in the fight against poverty by teaming up with the national group Invisible Children to help raise awareness and money for the people of Uganda. 
The original group was formed to raise awareness about Uganda. The founders of the group made a film about their visit to the impoverished coun­try. 
The film "Invisible Children," first screened in 2005, depicts the war in Uganda and the atrocities caused by the rebel army there. Children are being taken from their homes very young and trained to be soldiers, Kristen Metzger, president of the club, said. 
"They don't have homes. They don't really have a social securi­ty number or anything. So ifthey die, nobody knows," Metzger said. 
There were five filmmakers who put the film together aiming to reveal "the power of stories to change the world," Metzger said. 
The group of filmmakers who made the original film has since returned to Uganda to update the film and was hopeful of peace talks. They are currently trying to get President Obama to sign a petition to encourage an end to the war, Metzger said. 
The main goals of the group on campus are to raise aware­ness and to help raise funds for the organization. The group has four main committees; Better World Books, Change for 
Fa01e 
continued from page 1 
Bend," Luecke said. "The vari­ous functions have added vitali­ty and helped enhance the downtown as a destination location." 
The Hall of Fame will be moved to a site across from Centennial Olympic Park in downtown Atlanta, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported, on a piece of land donated by the Cathy family, founders of Chick-fil-A, which is based in Atlanta. According to the Tribune report, the proposed facility will not be ready for occupancy until2012. 
Atlanta mayor Shirley Franklin is expected to oflicially announce the move in a press conference Thursday. 
The Atlanta Business Chronicle reports the southern capital has been interested in being home to the Hall of Fame since its move to South Bend in 1995. The Atlanta Sports Council, a branch of the Metro Atlanta Chamber, and Chick-fil­A Bowl published a statement Dec. 14, 2007 expressing its long-standing interest in the Hall of Fame and announcing a preliminary inquiry with the NFF to move the Hall to Atlanta. 
The $14 million facility in which the Hall of Fame cur­rently resides is located on Washington St. in downtown South Bend. The Hall of Fame has struggled to draw visitors Change, Schools for Schools and an advertising group. 
Better World Books hopes to collect textbooks from students and then use the money they raise to buy books for schools in Uganda, Metzger said. 
Change for Change will be col­lecting change at football tail­gates and in the residence halls to raise not only funds, but also awareness for the club, she said. 
According to Metzger, the organization is trying to branch out and have been contacted by other area colleges that want to help. 
Another project the group is undertaking is called Schools for Schools, an effort in which the group connects with a school in Uganda. 
Saint Mary's is going to help an all-male Ugandan school, Metzger said. 
"We will be raising money for that school and supporting the rebuilding for that school," Metzger said. 
Another campus group, which has visited Uganda, is also help­ing the Invisible Children mem­bers to truly understand the sit­uation, Metzger said. 
Saint Mary's is also planning on teaming up with Bethel and other local colleges to hold events and increase their num­bers. 
Anyone interested in learning more about Invisible Children can visit their Web site at www.invisiblechildren.com and students interested in joining the group can contact Metzger at kmetzg01 @saintrnarys.edu 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
and sponsorships have been lacking in recent years despite its proximity to the University, which comes with large crowds on home football weekends. 
The University of Notre Dame boasts the most Hall of Fame inductees (players and coaches) with 49, the latest being Irish wide receiver and Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown, '88, in 2009. 
The NFF is terminating the agreement for operation of the Hall of Fame in South Bend effective Dec. 31, 2010. The city will work with the NFF on a transition plan for the Hall, and will consider an earlier closing date. Exhibits and arti­facts may be removed from the facility to prepare it for new use. 
"The City of South Bend owns the building and will actively pursue opportunities to fill this space quickly," Luecke said. 
Luecke has been in contact with several local businesses to discuss possible interest in the site, and he is forming a task force to address site turnover. 
"Change is hard," Luecke said. "We will take advantage of this change to strengthen a key asset for our city." 
Other cities noted as being in the running for a new home for the Hall of Fame include Dallas, Texas. 
The Hall of Fame was estab­lished in 1951 by the NFF and was located last in Kings Mills, Ohio, near Cincinnati, before moving to South Bend. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Provost 
continued from page 1 

the University," she said. "Their role depends partly on their backgrounds and area of interest. We will encourage them to get involved with other faculty, to get involved in the department where they'll be based." 
During their two years, the Moreau fellows will have the chance to become acquainted with the University. The pro­gram is designed for fellows to become faculty members at the end of two years if the University is a good fit for them, Pope-Davis said. 
"The number one driving force behind the fellowship is that we want our students to be able to engage with a mul­ticultural world," Ohmer said. 
The establishment of the fel­lowship is a result of recom­mendations made by the University committee on Cultural Diversity and the University Committee on Women Faculty and Students in reports issued last spring. 
The committee reports found that Notre Dame needs to recruit and retain more women and diverse faculty, as it is not as strong as other pri­vate universities that are members of the Association of American Universities (AAU) in these areas. 
In the fall of 2006, 23 per­cent of Notre Dame's faculty was female, according to the report from the Committee on Women Faculty and Students. The AAU average was 28 per­cent. 
The Committee on Faculty Recruitment and Retention reported that in the fall of 2007, 13 percent of Notre Dame faculty represented minority races. The University of Chicago leads AAU private universities in this area, with 20 percent minority faculty. 
This summer, Pope-Davis and Ohmer worked with a group to implement the com­mittees' recommendations for improving in these areas. Among the recommendations was a proposed post-doctoral program, which developed into the Moreau Fellowship. 
Ohmer is hopeful that the University will receive many applications for the fellowship. 
"We really do want to cast a wide net, and we'll see," she said. "I would expect several hundred )applicants!." 
Another recommendation in the 2008 committee reports was the creation of an office devoted to diversity. 
The University opted to appoint Ohmer to a new posi­tion in the provost's office rather than create a new oiTice. She began as assistant provost Aug. 1, and her main goal is to work through the committee recommendations. 
"Hather than have a sepa­rate office, we would work with the provost's office and the president's office jointly," she said. "This way we're pulling together resources in different areas and bringing them to bear on the issue." 
Ohmer plans to work sys­tematically through the com­mittee recommendations and encourage interaction and sharing between offices and departments on the topic of diversity. 
"Data collection and analysis is one of my specific priorities this semester," she said. "We want to develop the best prac­tices that people have found for attracting and keeping fac­ulty, and then we want to share them across campus." 
Pope-Davis, who is dedicated to faculty affairs, is also taking a leadership role in these efforts. After the postdoctoral 

program is established, he plans to develop a faculty mentoring program. 
"Rather than talk about retention, we want to talk about engagement," he said. "What we are hoping to do is to bring communities of women and faculty together around areas of research and scholarship." 
The program will aim to promote faculty members' academic and social engage­ment, participation in the broader community and understanding of the University's unique values. Pope-Davis said the program will include all faculty mem­bers. 
Pope-Davis and Ohmer said the efforts to recruit and retain diverse faculty are ulti­mately for the enrichment of students' experiences at the University. 
"I think we're all aware that we live in a global, multicul­tural world, and it's going to increase as students get older," Ohmer said. "The num­ber one driving force behind the fellowship is that we want our students to be able to engage with a multicultural world." 
University President Fr. John Jenkins has also lent his sup­port to the efforts to support and create diversity, Ohmer said. 
The desired result of the Moreau postdoctoral fellow­ship, Pop-Davis said, is increased diversity among the faculty, which he hopes will attract a more diverse under­graduate student body to the University. 
"It's important that we have a University that reflects the broad universal nature of the world in which we live," he said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

• 
St~te.of the Art Brand New High Line 

Fitness Center and Community Club House Free Tanning Beds 

• 
Private Balconies and Free Parking 

• 
§~ijpming Pool, Sun Deck, Hot Tub and Basketball Court 

• 
Oil. ~i;:Nt~l1~gement and 24/7 Maintenance 

• 
0n Site Security Officer 



• 
Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, 24 Hour Fitness Center, Basketball Court 

• 
.F~ 'l'annirtgBeds 

• 
Free Washer and Dryer in each unit 

• 
ij~gh Speed Wireless Internet and Comcast Premium Cable Included 

• 
On Site Management and 24/7 Maintenance 

• 
On Site Security Officer 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 24, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Court quashes polygamy charges 
TORONTO -A judge has quashed polygamy charges against two leaders of a polygamous community in western Canada. 
The judge said Wednesday the province's attorney general did not have the authority to appoint a second special prosecutor to consider the cases of Winston Blackmore and James Oler after the first special prose­cutor recommended against charging the two men. 
Authorities arrested Blackmore and Oler, who lead rival polygamous factions in Bountiful, a town in southeastern British Columbia, in January. Blackmore was charged with marrying 20 women and Oler was accused of marrying two women. 
Oler is the bishop of Bountiful's FLDS com­munity loyal to Jeffs. 
Mexicans are unhappy with country 
MEXICO CITY-Mexicans are overwhelm­ingly unhappy with the direction of their country, and one in three would immigrate to the United States if they could, a Pew Hesearch Center survey said Wednesday. 
Of those in the poll who said thny would like to migrate, more than half said they would be willing to do so illegally. 
The poll of 1,000 people in Mexico found crime, government corruption and illegal drugs are major problems. 
Snventy-eight percent of those surveyed said they are unhappy about Mexico's direction. Nearly all of those polled -94 percent -said corrupt political leaders are a big problem. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Accused serial killer to stand trial 
MILWAUKEE -A judge has ordered a Milwaukee man accused of killing seven women over 21 years to stand trial. 
Milwaukee County Circuit Court Judge Rebecca Dallet ruled after a preliminary hearing Wednesday that there was enough evidence to try 49-year-old Walter Ellis. He is charged with five counts of first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first­degree murder. 
Prosecutors say the unemployed laborer's DNA was found on the women and two oth­ers, who died between 1986 and 2007. Ellis has not been charged in the two other slay­ings. 
After the hearing, defense attorney Russell Jones entered not guilty' pleas for Ellis. 
Men face kidnapping charges 
FARGO, N.D. -Two men are accused of trying to pick up a 14-year-old girl from her Kentucky school and take her to North Dakota to marry the 14-year-old son of one of the men. 
Bowling Green, Ky., police spokesman Barry Pruitt says the teens had been com­municating over the Internet and decided they wanted to get married. Pruitt says the boy, his father and another man drove 15 hours to Kentucky. School officials called police when they tried to check the girl out of class on Monday. 
Pruitt said the girl was not old enough to legally consent. 
The men, 42-year-old Dragan Jovanovic and 18-year-old Elvis Tahirovic, were arraigned Tuesday on one charge each of attempted kidnapping. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Judge resigns after investigation 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Supreme Court says Fredrick R. Spencer is quitting as Madison Circuit Court judge after an investigation by the state's judicial ethics commission. 
Supreme Court spokeswoman Kathryn Dolan says Spencer's resignation is effec­tive Friday. 
The Commission on Judicial Qualifications began the probe after a lawyer said the judge decided a murder defendant's sentence ahead of time. 
The commission closed the investigation in light of Spencer's resignation. 
Ohio couple to give up baby 
Carolyn Savage will give birth to another couple's child after a fertility clinic mix-up 
Associated Press 

TOLEDO, Ohio -Carolyn Savage didn't know what to think, what to say, where to look as the ultrasound wand glided over her belly. It was supposed to be her baby inside. Not someone else's. 
Yet here she was in her doctor's office with the baby's biological mother, both brought together by a terrible error at a fertility clinic. A doctor, they said, had given Savage the wrong embryo, and now she was carrying the other woman's child. 
"The wand is on my abdomen and the techni­cian's talking to someone else: 'There's your baby's nose. There's your baby's head,"' she said. "It was surreal." 
Embryo mix-ups at fertili­ty clinics are extremely rare. In those few instances, they've degener­ated into custody battles, ugly lawsuits and at least one abortion. But not this time. Savage and her hus­band decided that the right thing -the only thing -to do was to give the baby to the biological parents. 
"This was someone else's child," she told The Associated Press on Wednesday. "We didn't Carolyn's womb in early A message was left ing to continue with the know who it was. We didn't February. Ten days later, Wednesday for the Savages' pregnancy, but also to hand know if they didn't have Sean Savage got a call from Detroit attorney, Brian over the baby without hesi­children or if this was their a doctor saying his wife McKeen. tation. last chance for a child." was pregnant with some­The Morells, who live In the first few weeks, the 
"We knew if our child one else's child. north of Detroit, learned of Savages sent e-mail was out there, we'd go to "By God's grace, there the mistake a day after the updates after every doctor's the ends of the earth to get was never a moment where Savages. They were just visit. The couples finally our child back," she said. we thought we were going about to start the process of met about three months 
Savage, 40, is due to give to have another baby of our having another baby with into the pregnancy. birth to a boy within the own," Carolyn Savage said. their last embryos when the They shook hands, held next two weeks via cesare­The doctor told them they clinic called. back tears and began to an section. When it hap­could abort, but the couple The two couples knew form a bond. Phone calls pens, biological parents didn't consider that a viable nothing about each other. followed. Paul and Shannon Morell, option. Shannon Morell feared that Then in August, Carolyn of the Detroit suburb of "It wasn't even something the pregnant woman would Savage asked Shannon Troy, Mich., will be nearby, we had to discuss," said choose abortion, ending Morell whether she wanted waiting to meet their son. Sean Savage, 39. their chance to give their 2-to be with her for the ultra­
"How do you thank some­The Savages won't reveal year-old twin girls a sibling. sound. body for what they've the name of the fertility "I didn't think she'd want Shannon felt funny, too, done?" Shannon Morell clinic, saying only that it's to carry the baby to term," being in the same room said. "I could say thank you not in Ohio. They have Shannon said. "I felt help­with Carolyn and her hus­a million different ways." hired attorneys who say less." band. She didn't want to 
The Savages say the fer­they are working to make A few days passed before show too much excitement, tility clinic transferred the sure the clinic will accept they learned that the knowing how conflicted wrong frozen embryo to full responsibility. Savages were not only will-they must be feeling. 

UNITED NATIONS 
Medvedev corrunends US onmissile defense 
his decision to abandon the plan to U.S.-Russian relations. Obama has
Associated Press deploy U.S. radars and strategic mis­sought to improve ties with the UNITED NATIONS-Russian presi­sile interceptors in the Czech Republic Kremlin, declaring he wanted to dent Dmitry Medvedev lauded on and Poland, to a changed perception "reset" relations with the former Cold Wednesday the Obama administra­of the threat posed by Iran. War rival. tion's decision to scrap plans for an He said the U.S. government now "We are prepared to engage in a Eastern Europe-based missile shield, considered that short-and medium­thorough discussion of the U.S. pro­a major irritant in relations with range missiles from Iran now pose a posals ... regarding cooperation in this Moscow. greater near-term threat than the area," Medvedev said. "We view this decision as a con­intercontinental ballistic missiles the On Friday, NATO Secretary­structive step in the right direction Bush plan addressed. A proposed new General Anders Fogh Rasmussen that deserve a positive response from missile-defense plan would rely on a called for the U.S., Russia and NATO the international community," network of sensors and interceptor to link their missile defense systems Medvedev said, referring to missiles based at sea, on land and in against potential new nuclear Washington's decision last week to the air as a bulwark against any threats from Asia and the Middle shelve a Bush-era plan for an Eastern potential Iranian attack. East, saying that the old foes must European missile defense shield. The original missile defense plan set aside lingering Cold War ani­President Barack Obama attributed was one of the thorniest issues in mosity. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 24, 2009 
Graduates share selVlce expenences 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 

In preparation for the Postgraduate Service Fair, the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) hosted a panel discussion Wednesday evening featuring former domestic service volunteers from a variety of different organizations. 
Groups in attendance included Americorps, Teach for America, Jesuit Volunteer Corps and the LaSallian Volunteers. The event gave students, specifi­cally seniors. an opportuni­ty to learn from the four panelists' unique experi­ences and ask questions about the many aspects of postgraduate service. 
Director of Student Leadership and Senior Transitions at the CSC Michael Hebbeler stressed the importance of this panel and tonight's international service panel as resources for preparing for the service fair and researching the many opportunities avail­able to students in post­graduate service. 
"The four former volun­teers on the panel are pret­ty diverse," Hebbeler said. "This is intentional to give you a better feel of what's out there. These are four little stories of service options in our corner of the world." 
Each panelist offered a brief description of their particular program of serv­ice, giving a unique glimpse into the application and decision making process, the type of work performed, the community environ­ment, the difficulties faced during their service and the impact of the experience. 
Cheron Wilson, a class of 2007 Notre Dame graduate, served with Americorps State Nation, a domestic program that focuses its work in specific community organizations helping them build their infrastructure. 
"I worked in a South Bend juvenile correctional facili­ty," Wilson said. "I met with the inmates and helped them learn different life skills and set goals for themselves as far as their education goes or their fam­ily life. Once they were released, I worked as a case manager for them." 
Wilson said she also worked for the American Red Cross as a health and safety program associate to create a junior Red Cross which brought in area mid­dle and high school students to help them give back to the community. 
Joe Kolar. a 2007 Loyola University of Chicago grad­uate, worked with the LaSallian Volunteers teach­ing high school in Baltimore, Maryland, at a school run by the de La Salle Christian Brothers. 
Megan Meyer served with the Jesuit Volunteer Corps in Billings, Montana, work­ing with abused and neg­lected children and their parents and living in com­munity with other volun­teers. 
Patrick Murren, a Notre Dame graduate, worked with Teach for America in New Orleans teaching sixth, seventh and eighth grades. 
"Teach for America's goal is to close the achievement gap in America," Murren said. 
Hebbeler and the four panelists explained the process of deciding what type of service program is best for each individual, as well as the significance of looking at a variety of fac­tors to take into considera­tion. 
The type of community living, faith-based versus secular programs, site placement and type of work and financial matters arc all important aspects of postgraduate service that must be considered careful­ly and thoughtfully, Hebbeler said. 
Some panelists empha­sized the importance of a faith-based program and community living as a sig­nificant source of spiritual and emotional support dur­ing their experiences. 
"A faith-based program for me was a big deal," Kolar said. "I wanted that anchor -a wellspring of why I was doing this." 
Others emphasized the opportunities of living inde­pendent from a formal com­munity in a secular pro­gram, such as Teach for America. 
"You are very much on your own, you're an adult," Murren said. 
The four panelists addressed the pressures and expectations from fami­ly, friends and peers when choosing to do postgraduate service. 
"When I told my mother that I was going to be doing a service term, she wasn't the happiest about it," Wilson said. "She got over it though." 
The four panelists are now enrolling or have enrolled in graduate study programs, including engi­neering, non-profit adminis­tration, law school, and master of Divinity. 
"Now more than ever, people are understanding what service is all about, that its not just a year off," Kolar said. 
As many seniors begin to explore postgraduate serv­ice options, Hebbeler and the panelists suggested identifying specific criteria for what individual students are seeking in a service program. 
"Think about what are my passions and what are my skills," Hebbeler said. "When you start to narrow things down, make contact with the service organiza­tions and ask them to put you in contact with a cur­rent volunteer to see what a day-in-the-life is like." 
The Postgraduate Service Fair will take place on Wednesday from 5 p.m. to 8 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Concourse. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
delightful to work with them." 
Despite the cultural, national and religious differences, Woo said that once she was working with the Afghanis and Pakistanis, all differences melt­ed away. 
"Once you get there, you're all the same," she said. "You can't make generalizations. You stop looking at them as an Afghani or a Pakistani; you lose sense of that. And are able to feel a sense of ease with people that you usually stay away from." 
While Woo says she is happy to be back in the United States, she wants the Notre Dame community to know about her trip and what she learned through her experiences. 
"Have a heart big enough for the world," she said. "In the end, living our faith calls for service to our brothers and sis­ters from all over the world and w~ need to respond to where there is need." 
Woo also believes that the work she and the Catholic Relief Services arp, doing is helping to build bridges on a much larger scale. 
"I believe that our work builds peace," Woo said. "If you can go into Afghanistan and Pakistan you need to respect their religion and cul­ture. Don't dictate to them and don't shove your ideas down their throats. If you're really there to help them and not to take over they are very thank­ful." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Woo 
continued from page 1 

shoots in rocky soil is so unbe­lievable." 
Woo said an especially mov­ing experience was visiting the first school for the deaf in Afghanistan which was funded by Catholic Relief Services. 
"The children were so engaged in their learning and so happy," she said. "If this school did not exist, they would be cast away from society. The boys would be pulling carts, essentially doing a job meant for donkeys and the girls would be washing clothes or 
helped her look at Afghanis and Pakistanis in a different way. 
"I don't feel like they're strangers anymore," she said. "Just the other night I had a Pakistani staff member from the organization over to dinner at my home. None of my other guests had ever met a Pakistani before." 
Building relationships with the indigenous people of the countries where the organiza­tion is doing service, Woo said, is key to the success of the pro­grams that are being imple­mented. 
"Before we begin a project, we have conversations going with the village leaders for months beforehand," she said. 
weaving." Being in 

"We are trying to 
Afghanistan, however, did not help barren land come without its 
become frui{{ul. We 
dangers. 

are introducing
"The day I left Kabul, I woke up wheat and fruit as 
to the sound of replacements for the 
seven rockets 

poppy.
being shot at the airport, which was where I was Carolyn Woo going later that 
Dean 
day," Woo said. 

Mendoza School of
"Experiences like 

Business
that give you a feeling of how 

"We learn about the vil­lage infrastruc­ture so that we don't disrupt it and we get the priorities from the village leaders them­selves." 
Creating relationships with the vil­lagers before bP.ginning a project allows the villagers to know that the 
temporary and precarious life can be. In those countries, you take a chance just walking down the street. I felt like a bond was created between myself and the people that live that way everyday." 
Woo said this bond has 

organization has the same goal as them. 
"Since these were Muslim countries, we hired mostly Muslims," she said. "They were working for a Catholic agency but for the same purpose that we both believe in. It was 
Write for News. E--mail Madeline at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Thursday, September 24, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,748.55 -81.32 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

S&P 500 1,060.87 -10.79 NIKKEI (Tokyo) ltii,i:ZS.S#I ~~~·;::·i·o,~oo FTSE 100 (London) 5,139.37 -3.23 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) -2.80 -0.13 4.52 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.83 -0.89 106.18 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) -0.62 -0.11 17.50 E*TRADE FIN CORP (ETFC) -4.17 -0.08 1.84 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.10 -0.038 3.42 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.095 30-YEAR BOND -0.31 -0.013 4.20 5-YEAR NOTE -2.06 -0.05 2.38 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.79 68.97 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.10 1014.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.23 80.18 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 91.3150 EURO 1.4728 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0749 BRITISH POUND 1.6356 
IN BRIEF 
UFCW Local 7 union elects new leader 
DENVER -A union representing grocery workers is in the midst of a leadership strug­gle. just as it is negotiating new contracts for Colorado workers at Safeway, Albertsons and Kroger Co.'s King Soopers and City Market chains. 
Hesults Monday showed United Food and Commercial Workers Local 7 members in Colorado and Wyoming voted in a mail-in elec­tion to replace President Ernest Duran Jr. with fornwr union employee Kim Cordova, whom union leaders fired last spring. 
Union lawyer Crisanta Duran said Tuesday that her father and others will challenge the results, though, due to defamatory allegations. She said fewer than 13 percent of the more than 21,000 union members voted. 
Union officials didn't release the vote totals, but Cordova said she won by a 55-45 split. Crisanta Duran said the election was close. 
In the meantime, Ernest Duran Jr. continues to lead negotiations on contracts for about 
17.000 workers at Safeway, King Soopers, City Market and Albertsons who are represented by the union. King Soopers, City Market and Safeway workers are voting on the contracts through early October. 
Union rejects deal to stop shutdown 
NOHTII PROVIDENCE. R.I. -The heads of Hhode Island's largest state employees' union on Wednesday rejected a deal struck with Gov. Don Carcieri's administration to avoid a shut­down of state government or 1,000 layoffs, prompting the governor to say he'd go ahead with the firings -though likely on a smaller seale. 
Joe Peekham, acting executive director of Couneil 94, which represents 4,000 state workers, said the union's roughly two dozen presidents rejected the deal by a wide margin, even though negotiators had recommended they approve it. 
Carcieri said several other unions had agreed to the tentative deal. Those that didn't would be subject to layoffs, he said, because the state is facing a $68 million budget gap. 
Carcieri said last month that he would shut down state government as one step to help close the deficit for the fiscal year ending in June. 


USINESS 
page 7 

Wal-mart location challenged 
Company's proposed construction site near famed battlefield is contested 
Associated Press 

RICHMOND, Va. Preservationists and resi­dents filed a legal chal­lenge Wednesday to block construction of a Walmart Supercenter near a famed battlefield where the Civil War began to turn in favor of the North. 
The legal action is aimed at an Aug. 25 vote by the Orange County Board of Supervisors approving the store near the Wilderness Battlefield. 
The battlefield where 30,000 Union and Confederate soldiers were injured or killed 145 years ago is considered one of the nation's most endan­gered Civil War sites, according to preservation­ists. 
The suit contends that supervisors "brushed aside" mounting concerns about the negative impact the store would have on the battlefield and approved the special use permit Walmart needed to build the big box store. The vote was 4-1. 
"A nationally significant and highly vulnerable his~ to ric site is at great risk," said Zann Nelson, presi­dent of Friends of Wilderness Battlefield, one of the preservation groups guidelines that were put Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. In May 1864, 180,000 ehallenging the vote. before us," said Keith Grant and the beginning of the Union and Confederate 
"The Walmart project Morris, a spokesman for end for the beleaguered armies fought at the would irrevocably harm the world's biggest retailer. Confederacy." Wilderness, which began a the battlefield and serious­He said site work had not The suit seeks the court series of battles that ly undermine the visitor's yet begun on the 138,000-to declare supervisors' vote brought an end to the Civil experience to the National square-foot store in Locust "unlawful and invalid" and War one year later. Park," she said in a state­Grove, which is about 50 miles to block any further county Residents and supervi­ment accompanying the fil­southwest of Washington, D.C. action on Walmart's site sors who supported the ing. In addition to Friends of plan. store said it would not 
Supervisors who had not Wilderness, the challenge In a state with more key diminish an area that seen the challenge did not includes the National Trust Civil War battlefields than already has two strip immediately respond to an for Historie Preservation any other, Walmart's pro­malls. They weleomed the Associated Press request and six residents of Orange posed store stirred up a hundreds of jobs the store for comment on the suit, and Spotsylvania counties spirited protest that enlist­would bring to the rural filed in Orange County who live near the planned ed the names of 250 histo­community, the shopping Circuit Court. They have 21 store site. The 41-page fil­rians and the filmmaker option and the estimated days to !ile a response in ing is part legal document Ken Burns. $800,000 annually in tax the Orange court. and part history lesson. Opponents also included revenue for the county of 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. It begins the challenge by celebrities such as Robert approximately 32,000. deseribed the legal chal­quoting Pulitzer Prize his­Duvall, Gov. Timothy M. Wal-Mart argued that the lenge as having "no merit torian James McPherson, Kaine, and congressmen site is zoned for commer­or basis in fact." who wrote: "The Battle of from Texas and Vermont, cial use and the store will 
"Throughout this entire the Wilderness was a great states that lost an inordi­not be within sight of the process we have not only turning point in the Civil nate number of men in the battlefield's 2,700 protect­met but exceeded the War -the first clash between fighting. ed acres. 

BP asks for more time to improve plants 
Associated Press agement systems and equipment mitted to building upon the safety 
throughout the refinery and pay a investments and improvements at its 
HOUSTON -Oil giant BP PLC is $21.3 million fine. Texas City refinery." requesting more time to implement BP had until Wednesday to comply But attorneys representing blast required safety improvements at its with the agreement. OSHA spokes­victims who objected to a federal Texas City refinery where a 2005 woman Diana Petterson said the plea agreement between BP and the explosion left 15 people dead, the agency had received a request from Justice Department that settled crim­
U.S. agency responsible for worker the company for more time "and is inal charges in the explosion said the safety said Wednesday. presently taking that request under OSI lA letter is proof BP is not meet­
The request comes after the advisement as part of its ongoing ing its commitment to improve work­Occupational Safety and Health inspection at BP." er safety at the refinery. Administration told London-based BP Petterson declined to say how "It's lip service," Brent Coon, an last month in a letter that it was fail­much additional time BP wants. attorney for several blast victims. ing to make the improvements that BP spokesman Daren Beaudo said said of BP's claim it is in compliance were part of an agreement BP the company is working with OSHA with the OSHA agreement. • entered into with the agency after to resolve any concerns but would In an Aug. 3 letter sent to refinery the deadly blast, which also injured not comment on the status of its manager Keith Casey, OSHA Houston more than 170 people. agreement with the agency. South Area Offiee Director Mark 
The agency found BP committed "We believe we are in full compliance Briggs said OSHA found that BP had more than 300 willful violations. BP with our commitment'>," Beaudo said in a deviated from industry standards agreed to review proeess safety man-statement. "BP products remains com-related to pressure safety valves. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 24, 2009 
Texas schoolteacher stabbed 
Associated Press 
TYLER -A special-educa­tion teacher who had a pas­sion for music was fatally stabbed Wednesday morning in a Texas high school class­room, and police took a 16­year-old student into custody. 
Todd R. Henry, 50, worked with students at John Tyler High School who were either emotionally or behaviorally challenged, according to his older brother, Jody Henry. 
"He loved it," the elder Henry said. "He told me it was his calling. He had never been happier than when working with these kids." 
District Superintendent Randy Reid said the male suspect approached his teacher about 8:50 a.m. and stabbed him in the neck with a sharp object. A teacher's aide and two other students were in the classroom, and the aide subdued the suspect before calling district police, Reid said. 
Reid said the student had been in and out of the dis­trict "a couple of times," but declined to provide further details, citing privacy laws. 
"It is our understanding at this time that there was nothing in the classroom that incited this situation," Reid said. "It was a random act." 
The high school was locked down after the stabbing and students were eventually sent home for the day, according to a statement on the district's Web site. Reid said classes would resume Thursday. 
Jan Shaw Henry, the teacher's wife of 10 months, said he had been injured by a student before. Todd Henry missed the first two weeks of 
school recovering from shoulder surgery after he broke up a fight at school last year, his wife said. 
"He worked in a prison for 10 years. Do you think this man was afraid? Get real," Jan said in a telephone inter­view from her Tyler home, surrounded by close friends and family. "We'd be eating out and a student would walk up and shake his hand. He'd look at me and smile and say, 'That's what it's all about."' 
Police did not offer a motive behind the stabbing and referred further ques­tions to Angela Jenkins, a school district spokeswoman. 
Jenkins said about 2,000 students attend John Tyler High and the district will provide additional support, security, and counseling for students and staff as needed. 
She said Todd Henry began working for the district in 2003 at a school for special needs students and trans­ferred to the high school four years ago. 
Late Wednesday afternoon only a few cars remained in the parking lot, and all entrances were blocked off with heavy steel barriers. 
Those who lived and worked nearby said they were stunned to learn of the slaying. 
"Nothing like this has ever happened here as far as I know," said Don Dozier, a custodian for 15 years at Westwood Baptist Church next to the school. 
The stabbing stunned the tight-knit community of 110,000, located about 90 miles southeast of Dallas. 
"It's quite a shock," said city of Tyler Communications 
Director Susan Guthrie, who received a text message from the police chief soon after the stabbing. "Everybody was very shocked and sad­dened by the news." 
Tyler Mayor Barbara Bass interrupted the morning City Council meeting to observe a moment of silence, Guthrie said. The school board planned an emergency meet­ing Wednesday afternoon. 
Henry, a native of Chicago, grew up in Huntsville, Texas, after his family moved there in 1973. He was a confirmed bachelor until he married Jan, also an educator. 
Henry earned a degree in psychology with an emphasis in music therapy, working for at least a decade as a musie therapist, mainly with inmates in the state's prison system, his wife said. 
He was self-taught on sev­eral string instruments, played in several bands on the weekends and did some studio work. 
"He was an amazing guitar player and just an all-around great guy," said Matt Hobb, minister of instrumental music at Green Acres Baptist Church in Tyler, where Todd Henry filled in on guitar for the church orchestra. "lie was so gifted. Music was like his first language. 
"When he picked up that guitar you could tell that it came from his heart and soul. It brought so much joy to his life and joy to the peo­ple who heard him play." 
On his Web site, Todd Henry gave an inkling of how powerful he believed music to be. "I know that music can be a direct link to feelings and passions and is therefore a powerful tool," he wrote. 
Federal terror probe widened 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Hundreds of 
federal agents and police offi­
cers widened their investiga­
tion of a potential terrorism 
plot involving an alleged al­
Qaida associate on 
Wednesday as questions lin­
gered about whether early 
missteps might have made 
the chore harder. 
Investigators have fanned 
out in a New York City neigh­
borhood to re-interview "peo­
ple previously encountered" 
during previous raids there, 
and to locate others who 
know them, according to a 
law enforcement official 
familiar with the probe. The 
effort also includes a review 
of phone and other records 
that could link potential sus­
pects to one another or iden­
tify new ones. 
"Many of the people we've 
spoken to have been coopera­
tive," said the official, who 
spoke on condition of 
anonymity to The Associated 
Press because the investiga­
tion is ongoing. 
The official said business 
owners also are on the list of 
possible witnesses in a poten­
tial homemade-bomb plot. 
The official declined to identi­
fy those businesses, but 
authorities regularly monitor 
sales by suppliers of chemi­
cals that could be used in 
improvised explosives.. 
Najibullah Zazi, a 24-year­
old Denver airport shuttle 
driver whom authorities have linked to al-Qaida; his father; and Ahmad Wai Afzali, a Queens imam, were charged last weekend with lying to the FBI. Authorities say they found bomb-making instruc­tions on a hard drive on Zazi's laptop but knew of no specific time or place for a possible attack. 
The arrests came after the series of high-profile raids of several city apartments in the Queens neighborhood where Zazi had recently visited, and were followed by a flurry of nationwide warnings of possi­ble strikes on transit, sports and entertainment complex­es. 
A criminal complaint sug­gests police acting without the FBI's knowledge might have inadvertently blown the surveillance and forced inves­tigators' hand by questioning Afzali -considered a trusted police source in the commu­nity -about Zazi and other possible plotters. 
The imam, it says, turned around and tipped off Zazi by calling him the next day and saying in a recorded conver­sation, "They asked me about you guys." 
The detectives referred to in the recently unsealed crim­inal complaint work for a division that operates inde­pendently from an FBI-run terrorism task force. 
When multiple agencies are involved in a probe, law 
enforcement runs the risk of "someone tipping off someone who shouldn't have been tipped off," said Harry Sandick, a former federal prosecutor now in private practice. 
"You often have informants who are working both sides," he said. "That seems to part of what happened here, they trusted this fellow and that trust wasn't well-placed. lie couldn't be trusted to keep secrets." 
The complaint also suggests that the NYPD and FBI might have spooked Zazi even before the imam's call by towing and searching a rental ear he was using on his trip to New York City. In the phone conversation with Afzali, Zazi said the ear's dis­appearanee convinced him he was being watched. 
"Searching the car and him realizing that it had hap­pened, that may have been a little ham-handed, but they obviously had to realize when they interviewed the imam that it could get back to him," said Larry Bacella, another former federal prosecutor. 
Police officials say that their investigators reached out to Afzali -showing him pictures of four possible sus­peets to identify, including Zazi -only after receiving fresh information from the terrorism task force that a terrorism plot was possibly in progress. 
U.S. Census worker hanged near cemetery 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A U.S. Census worker found hanged from a tree near a Kentucky cemetery had the word "fed" scrawled on his ehest. a law enforcement official said Wednesday, and the FBI is inves­tigating whether he was a victim of anti-government sentiment. 
The law enforcement oflicial, who was not authorized to dis­cuss the case and requested anonymity, did not say what type of instrument was used to write the word on the chest of Bill Sparkman, a 51-year-old part­time Census field worker and teacher. He was found Sept. 12 in a remote patch of the Daniel Boone National Forest in rural southeast Kentucky. 

The Census has suspended door-to-door interviews in rural Clay County, where the body was found, pending the outcome of the investigation. An autopsy report is pending. 
Investigators have said little about the case. FBI spokesman David Beyer said the bureau is assisting state police and declined to confirm or discuss any details about the crime scene. 
"Our job is to determine if there was foul play involved ­and that's part of the investiga­tion -and if there was foul play involved, whether that is related to his employment as a Census worker," said Beyer. 
Attacking a federal worker during or because of his federal job is a federal crime. 
Sparkman's mother, Henrie Sparkman of Inverness, Fla., told The Associated Press her son was an Eagle scout who moved to the area to be a loeal director for the Boy Scouts of America. She said he later beeame a sub­stitute teacher in Lauml County and supplemented that income as a Census worker. 
She said investigators have given her few details about her son's death -they told her the body was deeomposed -and haven't yet released his body for burial. "I was told it would be better for him to be cremated," she said. 
Henrie Sparkman said her son's death is a mystery to her. 
"I have my own ideas, but I can't say them out loud. Not at this point," she said. "Right now, what I'm doing, I'm just waiting on the FBI to come to some con­clusion." 
Lucindia Scurry-Johnson, assistant director of the Census Bureau's southern office in Charlotte, N.C., said law enforce­ment officers have told the agency the matter is "an appar­ent homicide" but nothing else. 
Census employees were told Sparkman's truek was found nearby, and a computer he was using for work was found inside it, she said. He worked part-time for the Census, usually conduct­ing interviews once or twice a month. 
Sparkman has worked for the Census since 2003, spanning five counties in the surrounding area. Much of his recent work had been in Clay County, officials said. 
Door-to-door operations have been suspended in Clay County pending a resolution of the inves­tigation, Scurry-Johnson said. 
The U.S. Census Bureau is overseen by the Commerce Department. 
"We are deeply saddened by the loss of our co-worker," Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said in a statement. "Our thoughts and prayers are with William Sparkman's son, other family and friends." 
Locke called him "a shining example of the hardworking men and women employed by the Census Bureau." 
The most deadly attack on fed­eral workers came in 1995 when the federal building in Oklahoma City was devastated by a truck bomb, killing 168 and injuring more than 680. Timothy McVeigh, who was executed for the bombing, carried literature by modern, ultra-right-wing anti­government authors. 
A private group called PEER, Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, tracks violence against employ­ees who enforce environmental regulations, but the group's exec­utive director, Jeff Rueh, said it's hard to know about all of the cases because some agencies don't share data on instances of violence against employees. 

Have a news 
story idea? 
E-mail Madeline at 
mj>uckley@nd.edu 
:''·'~::~:::;p:·:·· 

Thursday, September 24, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

est 




Sunday, September 27th 9:00p.m. 
(Please note special time) 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Join students, rectors, hall staff, hall government, and priests-in-residence for this celebration of the Eucharist. 
Duncan Hall Keough Hall McGlinn Hall O'Neill Hall Ryan Hall 
Welsh Family Hall 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 24, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Sign of the times 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JennMetz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574} 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
achamO1@saintmarys.edu 
PHoTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631"8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudents ofrhe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhe adrninisrracion ofeirher inscirution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisl:allt Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofrhe aurhors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q;testions regarding Observt!T"policitrshould be directed to Editofl'-in-Chi.tfjmn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Qbs¢tvc:r {USPS 599-+-4000} is pubi~ Monday through Friday .¢xttpt dwing ~wn and v:tea{ion periods. Asubscription ~o TheObseryer iS$129= tbr oneacademK year; $65 fur -one s:emesttt.­
1'ht Ob.sc:tYtt 1s puhllshal-at:: POSTMASTI!R 024 South Dining H.tll Sc11d add~ oott«-dons (tl:: 
Norte D"'""' IN46)56-<>779 The. Obs.ervcr 
PtriOOkal~ paid at Notk-Dame­RO,Box719 and additional mailing: Office$. 024 Soudt Dining H,Jf 
Nottt: Da¢.e,.1N 46556--0719 
1'he Obscrv.c.r is: :a:. rnelllherufthe Assodatal. Pr~. All mproduction rigJits :m. =ved, 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Katie Peralta Alex Barker Irena Zajickova Jared Jedick Madeline Buckley Chris Michalski 
Megan Loney Scene Graphics Alexandra Andrea Archer Kilpatrick Viewpoint Stephanie Vossler 
There's been a lot of discussion in The Observer recently about women priests and whether or not they should be ordained. Without getting too deep into the pipes and plumbing aspects of all of it, nor giving a recap of the entire Brooks Smith women's rights movement to date, Mighty nor even remind­
Morphin Power 
ing my readers 
Columnist

that the Church's fundamental objec­tion is that "all of Jesus's disciples were male, so he meant all priests to be male"-an uncanny instance of mind­reading on its part -I would like to humbly offer my own answer to the question of why women should not be priests: Because I don't think they should. My reason is two words: the male psyche. 
For the 50 percent of my readership who does not understand what I mean, let me spell it out explicitly. All men think about is sex. This is one ugly stereotype that I can confirm from first­hand experience with the male mind. Whether I'm in class, at an important meeting or standing in line at the dining hall, you can be sure that I am creating and embellishing some elaborately detailed fantasy, often involving whoev­er is closest by. 
Now as a good Christian boy, you might think that I leave my obsession with sex at the doors of the church. When Mass starts, I stop thinking about sex and start thinking about Jesus, right? In a perfect, sinless world, that would certainly happen. But in practice, if my mind should happen to wander during a lengthy sermon, it's a 10-to­one bet that it has wandered to one topic, and that topic isn't Holy Communion. (Quite the opposite.) 
It's one thing to have a venerable male priest presiding over my fantasies, but it would be quite another to have a beautiful young woman breaking bread when I am stuck in place for an hour with nothing to do but think. Additionally, once you factor in all the repression I'm supposed to be doing with these impure thoughts, you can clearly see that there is a disaster wait­ing to happen here. 
Here is a little stream-of-conscious­ness transcript of what might happen if a young, earnest Catholic boy found himself in a Mass with a beautiful female priest: 
"Gosh, this Mass is taking forever. The priestess is pretty hot though. Maybe after Mass I'll go up and talk to her, compliment her on the sermon. She seems really nice and friendly. Heck, maybe I'll even invite her out for coffee. No harm in having a cup of coffee with a parishioner who just wants to talk. And after coffee we could ... 
"No! What a dirty thought! Good heav­ens, I can't believe I just pictured that. What is wrong with me? I'm sitting in a Mass! 
"This is supposed to be God's house, not some sort of sleazy singles bar! 
"Yes, but what if she was into it too? It must be awful lonely being a priestess ... praying alone all the time ... nobody to comfort her ... maybe I could help relieve her tension ... I give great mas­sages ... 
"No! I see where this is going! I am not going to fantasize about a strong, independent woman expressing her intimate needs to me and letting me take care of her! That is so not what Christianity is about! 
"Man, I need to go to Confession and get all these feelings worked out, just purge them once and for alL I wonder if this priestess does Confession? Maybe I could go to her ... just admit these things, in a confessional way, and ask her to forgive me ... she'll be flattered, and it'll be just the two of us, in a dark room ... me and a lonely priestess .. . 
"No! These thoughts are so ... so .. . naughty and bad! Jesus is my rock. Jesus is my rock. Jesus is my rock. Man ... I'm stuck between a rock and a hard place ... 
"To the pure all things are pure. To the pure all things are pure. To the pure all things are pure. To the pure ... " 
Any guy who claims this is an inaccu­rate representation of what goes on in his head once or twice a day (heck, once or twice an hour) is, to put it charitably, lying to your face. You should take the opportunity to Joe Wilson him on it. 
Another objection to female priest­esses would be the Internet. Those of you who know about Rule 34 know what I mean. Those of you who don't know about Rule 34 are better off not knowing. 
So that's why women priestesses are bad. They would light a match to the powder keg of our Catholic repressed sexuality. And Lord knows, the sweet, teenaged, pure, Disney-fled Miley Cyrus is already more temptation than most of us can handle. 
Brooks Smith is a junior Math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 

Who will be the second leading receiver for the Irish now that Floyd is out for the season? 
Kyle Rudolph Robby Parris Duval Kamara Jimmy Clausen 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are many thingsthat we would throw awayif we were not afraid that others might pick them up." 
Oscar Wilde Irish novelist 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 24, 2009 page 11 
What's your claitn to fatne? Well, let go of it 
When did you last feel jealous of someone? She has cooler jeans than you; he has the newest laptop; her par­ents are paying for school while you have to earn a big chunk of your tuition; he got the highest grade on Katharine the test and you Barrett know you worked a whole lot harder. Faith Point Sometimes envy creeps up on us before we even realize it; other times we're painfully aware of its presence, like a slap in the face or a cold shower. 
On the other hand, sometimes we're the one who already has the best brand of jeans, the highest of the high­end laptops, the most money or the best grades. The awful thing is, even then we can still become jealous! It's a slightly different breed of envy, the kind that wants to keep out all the interlopers and pretenders. For I cer­tainly don't want just anyone to have my excellent jeans, or get As on the tests like I can; I'd rather hang on to my particular claim to fame than have to share it with someone. 
For any of us who've ever been jeal­ous because we wanted what we don't have, or because someone else seemed to be inching in on what we do have, I offer you (and me too, quite honestly), this Sunday's gospel reading. Listen up when you go to Mass, because Jesus has something to say to us. Simply put, his message goes like this: Cut it out. Now. 
Pardon the pun, because Mark's gospel this Sunday features that advice of Jesus that surely we all found really creepy when we were kids: "If your hand causes you to sin, cut it off ... And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off ... and if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out... " A little background would help here; if you remember from last Sunday, Jesus has just encouraged the apostles to live as servants rather than seeking greatness, to welcome children and other vulnerable people in Christ's name rather than writing them off as insignificant. No sooner has he finished than John begins to, well, whine a little bit. "Somebody was 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Meal plan injustice 
This evening I went to replenish my domer dollars on the food services Web site (thanks mom and dad) and was sur­prised so see a link offering packs of six lunches for only $30. Now as any off cam­pus student with a meal plan can tell you, a lunch at either dining hall is closer to $11. Upon clicking on the link, I realized that these special "Value Meals" are available only to faculty and staff. So, I ask, why not students? 
At this point in my career I have already sunk close to $200,000 into this institution. Does that not entitle me to a reasonably priced lunch? I'm sure the prices for these student meals have been rationalized through some sort of crazy formula that Notre Dame feels is correct after factoring in just how many bowls, trays and loaves of bread they project I'll steal this semester. I will accept that price only slightly begrudgingly if it is univer­sal. 
If the cost of a meal at the dining halls is closer to $11 than $6, who pays the dif­ference for staff meals? How much of the price tag on room and board (or my over­priced meal plan) is actually earmarked so that staff and faculty can be part of what foodservices boasts is "A Special Deal Served Up Just For You." Why is this not a special deal served up for me? I am livid over this inequality. I admit that when I lived on campus I avoided the din­ing hall and let about half of my weekly meals go to waste in favor of more deli­cious things like burritos and pizza, but this year I would like to be able to enjoy a sandwich with my friends without feeling I have to eat a Thanksgiving meal to justi­fy the entry fee. 
So, off campus students I beseech you to start rallying, kicking, screaming and asking nicely to see that this injustice be amended. We deserve a special deal too. 
Allison Hamill senior off campus Sept. 22 

A good shepherd? 
Last Friday, Cardinal Roger Mahony graced the University of Notre Dame with his presence. He spoke of the importance of the priesthood and the many responsi­bilities that encompass leading a flock. When speaking about the duties of a priest, Cardinal Mahony said, "Teaching involves guiding, leading, enlightening and encouraging the baptized faithful so as to create a community of participation and collaboration." Please tell me that I am not the only person who finds this state­ment to be painfully ironic. 
As fate would have it, on Thursday I watched the documentary "Deliver Us from Evil." The film chronicles the life of Fr. O'Grady, a diocesan priest and a pedophile who spent years in prison for his multiple offenses. Over his decades as a parish priest in Los Angeles, O'Grady estimates that he raped, molested or abused over 25 children. As if this revela­tion is not vile enough, the documentary provides bone-chilling evidence that multi­ple men with more authority within the Catholic hierarchy were aware of his pedophilic and abusive actions. While pointing the finger at men like Pope John Paul II and Pope Benedict XVI, the brunt of the blame falls on none other than Cardinal Roger Mahony (who was then Bishop of Stockton and O'Grady's superi­or). Interviews with Cardinal Mahony and signed documents are used as proof that Mahony knew of the grave harm O'Grady was causing, but that his solution was just to shuffle him around from parish to parish. The film argues that despite numerous complaints made by parish­ioners, Mahony chose to protect his own career and the Church's image at the cost of perpetuating sexual abuse. 
Considering the charges made concern­ing Cardinal Mahony's integrity as a per­son and his moral and ethical actions as a Church leader, was he really the best choice for a speaker on the holiness of the priesthood? One only needs to glance around Notre Dame's campus to realize that there is an abundance of priests in the area. I believe it is a sad day when the person the University chooses to com­memorate the celebration of the Year of the Priest has made seriously questionable and controversial decisions. 
Angie Hollar junior Le Mans Hall Sept. 22 

trying to heal in your name, Jesus, but we made him stop because he's not one of us." The apostles want to hang on to their special status as Jesus' chosen followers. If this stranger could drive out a demon by invoking the name of Jesus, might that dilute the authority or the privilege of the apostles? We can almost imagine Jesus' sigh of frustra­tion as he responds, "Do not prevent him. No one who performs a mighty deed in my name ... can at the same time speak ill of me." Jesus wants to curb the natural tendencies of the apostles toward jealousy or fear, or the misguided belief that they're a part of an exclusive 12-man club. 
Maybe we are like the apostles -we already have a position of authority. We're already recognized as someone with gifts to offer. Then our job is to encourage and to accept more gra­ciously the gifts of others, even when they show up from unexpected sources. 
Maybe we're like the stranger in Mark's gospel, just coming to realize what we have to offer to others in the name of Jesus. Then our job is to muster up the courage to do something new, to push ourselves out into uncharted waters and figure out just how much we can contribute. 
Let's be clear; Jesus doesn't want us literally to cut off our own hands or feet or pluck out our eyes. But if you've ever been on crutches or had a broken arm you know how much you need to depend on the generosity of others, as uncomfortable as that may make you. Why not live all the time in that spirit of generosity rather than jealousy, of cooperation rather than competition? 
If our lives are kind and our actions done in humility and love, everyone benefits, and we will each take a step closer, together, to the unique kind of greatness to which Jesus calls us. 
This week's Faith Point was written by Katharine Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
My right to clean air 
Inhaling second-hand smoke, also called "passive smoke" or "environmental tobacco smoke," may be even more harmful than actually smoking. That's because the smoke that burns off the end of a cigar or cigarette contains more harmful substances (tar, carbon monoxide, nicotine and others) than the smoke inhaled by the smoker. This is widely known; if you ask someone randomly if inhaling secondhand smoke is bad for them, most people will answer affirmatively. 
Yet, at Notre Dame we still allow smoking on campus. At this University renowned for its intelli­gent inhabitants, we still allow a known poison to be dumped into students' lungs regardless of how they feel about it. And make no mistake, it is a poison. Cigarette smoke can cause as many, if not more, health problems as smoking. The current Surgeon General's Report says there is no "safe" level of second-hand smoke. "Short exposures to secondhand smoke can cause blood platelets to become stickier, damage the lining of blood vessels, decrease coro­nary flow velocity reserves, and reduce heart rate variability, potentially increasing the risk of heart attack." (Lung USA.org) 
Those who may argue that they have a right to allow this harm to their bodies and disallowing smok­ing on campus would violate this right. I would answer yes, you do have a right to smoke and cause horrible things to happen to your body. I would continue that I also have a right, a right to personal health. A person smoking on the sidewalk where I need to walk is violating my right to keep myself safe and healthy, by forcing me to either breathe in this harmful smoke or hold my breath (depriv­ing myself of oxygen). 
So please, Notre Dame: revoke the privilege of smoking on cam­pus. At least make certain areas designated smoke areas and ban it everywhere else, so those of us who do not wish to encounter sec­ond-hand smoke may avoid an unexpected encounter with it. I, for one, do not wish to die of can­cer in the future because someone was inconsiderately smoking on the sidewalk where I was breath­ing. 
Brandie Ecker sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall Sept. 23 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 24, 2009 
By KATHERINE GREENSPON 
Scene Writer 
She commands a $300 bil­lion fashion industry and oversees every aspect of the world-renowned "American Vogue" magazine. Anna Wintour is "Vogue'"s editor­in chief and has been since she started working for "Vogue" in 1988. 
Hidden behind her trade­mark bob and sunglasses, she was born into a publish­ing family and followed in her father's footsteps. Anna Wintour embodies the per­fection, class and elegance that inspired the making of the movie "The Devil Wears Prada" and the newest movie release, "The September Issue." 
This feature film invites the public into the N e w Y o r k offices of "Vogue" where viewers get raw footage experience the cutthroat industry of fashion. Through the eyes of director R.J Cutler we follow the strenu­ous planning and develop­ment of the largest magazine issue ever released, hence the title, "The September Issue." 
This issue of the magazine has been known to weigh over four pounds and has embraced up to 800 pages between the magazine's thick spine. "Vogue" covers any­thing and everything from fashion spreads and glamour ads to the unforgettable sto­ries that pertain to high fashion and high society. 
"Vogue" has been a power house for all fashion maga­zines and has been referred to as the "fashion bible." With the limited release of "The September Issue" in August, viewers flocked to the magazine Mecca of the world, New York, where it was showing 
for the first time. 
Audiences finally 
get a taste of what it 
would be like to work 
for the largest fashion 
a n d 

lifestyle magazine in the world. 
Director R.J Cutler goes into unknown territory and delivers brilliant and com­pelling new material. Everyone from fashion designers to interns are exposed in this film and it 

By MARY CLAIRE O'DONNELL Scene Writer 
Apparently it's been a rough three years for the Boston-based band Boys Like Girls. Their 2006 self-titled debut album sung of new romance and exciting begin­nings. "Love Drunk," their sophomore album, however, sings a new song (no pun intended). Heartbreak replaces new romance and sadness, excitement. The emotionally charged album relates the heart wrenching breakup story told by lead singer and songwriter Martin Johnson, but in a repetitive, mostly melan­choly way. 
The album begins with the rocking "Heart Heart Heartbreak," a song recounting the demise of a once beautiful relationship. With its upbeat tempo, it starts off the album well, giving a good impression of the songs to follow. Although the lyrics tell a sad story, the lively beat affects the listen­er more, minimizing the heartache conveyed in the song. 
Although the whole album does not follow this trend, most songs do mimic the pattern set forth by the opening song. The album's already popular title track is 
gives audiences a clear pic­ture of what working for a high profile publication like "Vogue" would really be like. The movie has already won a Cinematography Award from the Sundance Film Festival and was nomi­nated for the Grand Jury Prize for R.J Cutler's direc-· tion with the film. 
"The September Issue" starring Wintour did an amazing job cap­turing her in all of her glory with every outfit, attitude and snide remark that makes her so memorable and enter­taining. Anna Wintour is known for her bru­tal, blunt and bril­liant criticism which ulti­mately shines through in her evident work with the maga­zine. Being chief editor for over two decades proves to 
readers and designers that Wintour k n o w s 
what she is talk­i n g about. 
Anna surrounds herself with a cast and crew made up of her closest colleagues, including Grace Coddington, former model and current creative director, fashion designer Thakoon and of course her trusted partner in style Andre Leon Talley, edi­tor-at large for "Vogue." The movie documents the entire 
production and drama that goes into designing and beautifying the much antici­
pated issue of the year. Wintour is followed by a dedicated 
dream team of 

quali­f i e interns who generate ideas and assist her in making her vision a reality monthly. The docu­mentary portrays "Vogue" as an empire that takes every single dress fitting and page layout very seriously. Looking at an issue of "Vogue," it's hard not to 
notice the exquisite detail and creative article topics that make it so unique and impressive. 
The cameras follow Wintour and her team as they quickly and efficient­ly get ready for the fall fashion season. Each and every fashion designer want an item of their clothing in the magazine and await cautiously for Wintour's harsh critiques that have ultimately molded what the fashion industry stands for today. From the runway to her long office hallway, Anna 
Wintour will be found wherever fashion might take her. 
The movie initial­ly showed in major cities, including Chicago, Los Angeles and New 
York, where it tack­led large crowds and eventu­ally made its way to sur­rounding cities. 
It is currently playing locally in Chicago at the River East 21, Landmark's Ce n tu r y Ce n t r e Cinema-Evanston, CineArts 6-Evanston, Northbrook Court 14-Northbrook, and Indianapolis. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreenO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
almost unrecognizable  as  a  Listened to right after one  who  are looking to rekindle  
breakup song. Honestly, if  another, the songs are easily  a lost love and inspires hope  
it's  not  already,  it could  confused, making it seem as  in its possibility. Also, the  
probably get considerable  though the album is just one  uplifting message is  a  rarity  
airtime at this weekend's  long song, rather than 11  for this album, and the tune  
dorm  parties,  when  new  disparate ones. This is not to  is a memorable one that will  
relationships  take  flight  say that  an  album should  remain in your head long  
every minute.  have no coherence. Songs in  after you have finished lis­ 
Not every song, however,  an album should mesh well  tening to it.  
echoes  this  model.  Overall, the album is  
Johnson's collaboration .-------------.-.  decent. A little more vari­ 
with Taylor Swift, "Two  ety  would  definitely  
Is Better Than One," is a  improve  the  album  in  
soulful ballad that tugs  general. The best advice,  
at listeners' heartstrings.  limit yourself to  three  
The two singers' voices  songs  a  day,  or  inter­ 
blend  together  sperse  happier  
melodiously,  but  tunes in order to  
even  beautiful  avoid  the  pits  of  
singing  cannot  despair only appro­ 
overcome the deep  priate  after  you  
angst  present  in  realize the dining  
the song. Crooning  hall will not serve  
lyrics such  as  "so  omelets  on  game  
maybe it's true that  day  Saturdays.  
I can't live without  Also, to Johnson, to  
you, and maybe two is better  together  in  theme  and  help with your love hang­ 
than  one,"  Johnson  and  rhythm,  rather than just  over,  try  Extra  Strength  
Swift conjure up visions of  completely repeating  one  Tylenol,  it is  much  more  
first heartbreaks, forcing lis­ another.  effective than Motrin.  
teners to relive every bitter and tearful memory. Unfortunately, the album  The best track off the album is "Contagious," a song that deals with the pos­ Contact Mary Claire O'Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu  

gets a little old about sibility of halfway through the first lis­a new 
'Love Drunk' 
tening. There are only so relation­many times one can listen to s h i p , 
Boys Like Girls 
songs about heartbreak rather without feeling it them­than the 
Record Label: Columbia 
selves. The theme definitely end of one. 
Noteworthy Tracks: "Heart Heart
relates to many people, but It recounts an entire album about it? the story 
Heartbreak," 'Two is Better Than One," And when listened to on 0 f 
"Contagious"

shuffle, it's possible to hear Johnson's the three most depressing quest to songs in a row, leaving the win back a listener in a state of deep lost love. depression, regardless of The song current relationship status. strikes a 
Furthermore, many of the chord with songs have a similar sound. listeners 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, September 24, 2009 
page 13 

Free burrito day at Chipotle; Eddy Street. Commons; 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Free 
Finally! Although it doesn't 
officially open until Friday, the 
new Chipotle will be giving out 
free food all day Thursday. 
Conveniently located just across 
the street from the south edge 
of campus, the restaurant is one 
of the first attractions to open 
in Eddy Street Commons, and 
sure to be a student hotspot ,soon enough. 
Chipotle will give a free burri­
to and soft drink to all cus­
tomers on Thursday before 
beginning regular business 
hours (and full menus) on 
Friday. 
Tokyo String Quartet; DeBartolo Performing Arts Center; Leighton Concert Hall; 7 p.m.; $40 general public, $28 fac­ulty/staff, $28 seniors and $15 all students 
Formed in 1969 at Juilliard, the Tokyo String Quartet has traveled the 
·world for its performances and earned dozens of awards, including seven Grammy nominations. The Quartet is celebrating its 40th anniversary, although only one of the founding members (Kazuhide lsomura, who plays viola) still per­forms with the group. He and the other musicians (Martin Beaver and Kikuei Ikeda with violin and Clive Greensmith with cello) all use instru­ments crafted by the famous Stradivari in the 1700s. 
Sub Movie"'·:_ The Hangover; DeBartolo 101; 8 p.m. and 
10:30 
p.m. (also 10 p.m. Thursday and 8 p.m. and 

10:30 
p.m. Friday); $3 all stu­


dents . This surprise hit of the summer... 'is full of gross gags and wacky 
humor. Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis and Bradley Cooper play three friends who get so wasted one night at a Las Vegas bachelor party that they wake up the next morning with hospital; bracelets, a police cruiser, a tiger;t in the bathroom, and a baby in the closet, with the groom (played by Justin Bartha) nowhere to be found. The cast is great together, with jokes just raunchy enough to elicit laughs. 
.Psycho (1960}; DeBartolo Perfo~min~ Arts Center; Browmng Cmema; 3:00p.m.; $6 general public, $5 facul­ty/staff, $4 seniors and $3 all students 
This classic by Alfred Hitchcock,~ about a mild-mannered motel ;manager who just happens to. 
!murder people, is considered the prototype for the modern horror. 'film, and with good reason. The/ 'black-and-white film has inspired 'dozens of rip-offs and tokens of\ 
homage. One of them, the shot­by-shot 1998 remake by Gus Van iSant (starring Notre Dame man 
...•. ;Yince Vaughn), can also be seen:. Saturday night as part of the' DPAC's weekend celebration of: .Hitchcock. · 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
By JESS SHAFFER and GENNA McCABE 
Scene Writers 
As students living on campus, it is often frustrating the lack of alter­natives to the dining hall that are within walking distance. While the opening of Eddy Street Commons is certain to increase our choices, the general state of food options near campus is minimal. Nevertheless, there are a few dependable choices very dose to campus that are often overlooked. Next to Clover Village, or the apartment com­plex previously known as Turtle Creek, is a small strip of restau­rants that offer a who I e array of eth­nic foods. Next to Alexander's Grill, reviewed here previ­ously, J.W. Chen's Chinese Cuisine is a quirky Chinese din­ing experience. With common Chinese fare, somewhat puz­zling decor and a generally authentic atmosphere, J.W. 
Chen's has all the elements neces­sary to become everyone's favorite Chinese restaurant around the cor­ner. 
Walking into J.W Chen's, one is presented with a curious combina­tion of Chinese decor and recycled office furniture. An overwhelming­ly white environment, the restau­rant is a somewhat small room, crammed full of a few too many tables complete with bright blue, leather office chairs. But, ultimate­ly, it cannot be denied that the office chairs are very comfortable. And they swivel. They just seem delightfully out of place. The chairs and tables combine with some other unique touches 
to create an atmosphere full of character. 
The menu at 
J.W Chen's encom­passes most dishes one would expect to 


find at a Chinese restaurant. Complete with appetizers, soup, salad and entrees, there is an option for every­one. The lettuce wraps 
come prepared on large pieces of lettuce with fried rice noodles and a delicious chicken and mushroom mixture. 
On the side, a traditional lettuce wrap sauce is provided which adds a little bit of sweetness to an already delectable appetizer. 
All entrees are served with a choice of soup, fried or steamed rice and an egg roll. The wonton soup wa.:; identical to a tradi­tional wonton soup. The wanton, made with pork and onion filling is combined with green onion and a flavorful broth. This classic Chinese di.:;h is the perfect option for anyone not committed to Chinese food because it is flavorful without being overwhelming. The sweet and sour soup, the other starter option, is jam packed with mysterious vegetable shreds. Creating the standard fare when it comes to soup options, wonton soup will satisfy those seeking salti­ness while sweet and sour soup will speak to those looking for something a little more spicy and savory. 
The sesame chicken is prepared with the typical sesame sauce. Generally sweet with a slight kick, the sesame chicken is a nice alter­native to the more common sweet and sour chicken. Because both have a similar sweet and spicy palate, the sesame chicken is a safe way to try 
thing new. Coupled with steamed rice to absorb some of the extra sauce, the sesame chicken does not disappoint. 
The Walnut chicken is a healthy flavorful alternative to the more notorious deep fried Chinese indul­gences. The sauce lightly accents fresh vegetables and grilled chick­en with a mildly sweet and still savory sauce. Charred walnuts complete the dish adding slightly sweet and smoky flavors for a bit of creativity and culinary intrigue. 
J.W Chen's also may be one of South Bend's only providers of 
boba, or bubble tea. A trendy bev­erage that combines tropical juice with "bubbles" of chewy tapi­oca, the drink is a refreshing snack in and of itself. The tea is avail­
able 
strawberry, 
banana and water­

melon. Served in an icy, smoothie slushy form, the boha is certainly worth a try. 
Overall, J.W Chen's fulfills expec­tations. It offers delicious tradition­al Chinese food within walking dis­tance of campus. Perfect for a big group or a date, J.W. Chen's has the promise to become a regular spot for anyone looking for a quali­ty dining experience. 
J. W. Chen's is located at 183 5 South Bend Avenue (S.R. 23), South Bend, IN 46637. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edii and Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 24, 2009 
MLB 

Yankees defeat Angels with solid pitching 
Snider homerun hands Orioles seventh straight loss; Tigers keep pace in AL Central; Rays edge Mariners 
allowed five straight Yankees to
\ssociated Press 

reach base in the decisive fourth. 
ANAHEIM -A.J. Burnett Mark Teixeira started New struck out 11 in just his second York's rally with a one-out dou­win since July, and the New York ble, but Juan Rivera threw him Yankees won a series at Anaheim out at the plate from left field on for the first time since May 2004 Shelley Duncan's sharp single to with a 3-2 victory over Los right. Cano then drove home Angeles on Wednesday. Hideki Matsui and Duncan, and 
The Yankees, eliminated by the Cabrera added another double. Angels in the first round of the Matthews hit a run-scoring playoffs in 2002 and 2005, lost 18 double over Duncan in right field of their last 23 games in Anaheim in the sixth, but two runners were before winning back-to-hack stranded by Chone Figgins, who games in less than 24 hours. had three hits and reached base 
On Tuesday night, New York four times became the first major league team to clinch a playoff berth. If Blue Jays 7, Orioles 3 the Red Sox lose later Wednesday Travis Snider homered and had or Thursday, New York would two RBis, Scott Richmond won for clinch the AL East title by winning the first time since June 24 and two of three at home against the Toronto Blue Jays completed Boston this weekend. a three-game sweep, beating the 
Robinson Cano hit a two-run Baltimore Orioles on Wednesday single, and Melky Cabrera fol­night. lowed with an RBI double in the Baltimore lost its season-high fourth inning. seventh straight and lost for the 
Ian Kennedy walked two bat­eighth time in nine games in ters and hit another in the eighth Toronto this season. The Orioles before escaping the jam in his have been outscored 48-19 over first major league appearance their losing streak. since surgery to remove an It's the second time this season aneurysm below his right biceps. the Blue Jays have swept the 
Gary Matthews Jr. and Bobby Orioles. They also did it May 1-3 Abreu drove in runs for the at Rogers Centre. Angels, who didn't help their faint Richmond (7-10) allowed three hopes of catching New York for runs and five hits in five innings the majors' best record. Los to win for the first time in 10 pitchers allowed 197 entering homer, a 440-foot shot into the acquired from Boston in the mul­Angeles dropped 6 1/2 games starts. The rookie, 0-6 since beat­play Wednesday. Baltimore bleachers in left-center in the tiplayer trade that sent All-Star behind the Yankees with three ing Cincinnati on June 24, walked allowed a franchise-record 226 in fourth, for Detroit. catcher Victor Martinez to the losses to New York in the last 10 four and struck out two. 1987. Porcello walked three and Red Sox. days, including a makeup game Casey Janssen, Josh Roenicke Snider added an RBI single in struck out one to go to 3-0 with a at Yankee Stadium last week. and Brandon League all worked the eighth off Sean Henn. 1.80 ERA in four starts against Rays 5, Mariners 4 
With five relievers barely keep­one inning before Jason Frasor Outfielder Nick Markakis Cleveland. The 20-year-old is the B.J. Upton had three RBis, ing Los Angeles off the score­finished. returned to Baltimore's lineup youngest pitcher to go 3-0 in a including a go-ahead two-run sin­board, the Yankees won a series Jeremy Guthrie (10-16), who after sitting out Thesday, the first season against the Indians since gle in the eighth, to help the for the first time since sweeping has lost four of five, allowed seven game he missed all season. He Milt Pappas of Baltimore in 1958, Tampa Bay Rays beat the Seattle Tampa Bay in early September. runs, five earned, and eight hits went 1 for 4 with a single. also at age 20. Mariners on Wednesday night. 
Kennedy got himself in plenty of in seven-plus innings. Five of the Attendance was 13,743, the The Tigers got four straight hits Tampa Bay loaded the bases on trouble in the eighth, but retired eight hits were for extra bases. first time in five games Toronto and took advantage of a throwing a single and two walks with one Erick Aybar on a bases-loaded fly Baltimore first baseman has drawn more than 12,000. error by first baseman Andy out against Mark Lowe (2-7) in to right. The Long Beach, Calif., Michael Aubrey opened the scor­Marte to take a 4-0 lead in the the eighth and Upton then gave native and former USC star spent ing with a two-run homer in the Tigers 11, Indians 3 first. the Rays a 5-4 lead on his single 4lf2 months on the disabled list second, his first of the season. Carlos Guillen hit two of Cabrera drove in one run with a to left. after surgery, only returning to Toronto halved the deficit in the Detroit's three home runs to help single and Aubrey Huff's RBI dou­Akinori Iwamura had two RBis the Yankees last weekend. bottom of the inning on consecu­Rick Porcello and the Tigers ble made it 2-0 with one out. for the Rays, who are 6-3 since an 
Mariano Rivera gave up a lead­tive doubles by Edwin defeat Cleveland on Wednesday Guillen then grounded to Marte, 11-game losing skid. The defend­off single to Abreu but finished Encarnacion and Lyle Overbay, night, the Indians' season-high who threw wildly trying to get ing AL champions, eliminated the ninth for his 42nd save in 44 then tied it in the third on 1Oth straight loss. Cabrera scoring from third. from playoff contention Tuesday, chances, moving two behind the Encarnacion's sacrifice fly. Porcello (14-9) allowed one run Brandon Inge made it 4-0 with a need to win four of their final 10 Angels' Brian Fuentes for the The Blue Jays added three runs and six hits over five innings as groundout. games to record a second-ever major league lead. in the fourth. Snider reached on the Tigers won their third The Indians loaded the bases in over .500 season. 
Burnett (12-9) didn't make it an error by shortstop Cesar straight. Detroit entered play 2 the first two innings, but scored Ichiro Suzuki hit an RBI single out of the sixth inning, allowing Izturis, took second on a balk and 1/2 games ahead of Minnesota in only one run, on Travis Hafner's and Franklin Gutierrez had a seven hits and three walks, but scored on John McDonald's sin­the AL Central. The Twins open a fielder's choice grounder in the run-scoring grounder to put his strikeout total was one shy of gle. Jose Bautista followed with four-game series in Detroit on first. Hafner had an RBI ground­Seattle ahead 3-0 in the fifth. The his season high. Gearing for a an RBI triple and scored on Monday. out in the seventh against Ryan Mariners lost for the second time start in Game 2 of the playoffs, he Aaron Hill's sacrifice fly. Guillen tied a season high with Perry, and Luis Valbuena added in seven games. is 2-5 with a 5.40 ERA in 11 Baltimore rookie Matt Wieters four RBis. He hit a two-run an RBI double to make it 11-3. Seattle went ahead 4-0 in the starts since the beginning of led off the fifth with a towering homer in the third off right-han­Masterson dropped to 0-5 in six sixth when Adrian Beltre scored August. homer to right, his eighth, a drive der Justin Masterson (4-9) and starts since beating the Los on center fielder Upton's errant 
Scott Kazmir (9-9) made anoth­that hit the facing of the third connected on the second pitch Angeles Angels on Aug. 20. The throw on Jack Hannahan's single. er solid start for the Angels, but deck. from left-bander Mike Gosling to right-hander gave up seven hits Upton, trying to throw out Beltre failed to win for the fourth time in Snider restored Toronto's three­make it 9-1 in the fifth. It was the and six earned runs over four at third, was charged with an five outings with his new club, run lead with a solo shot to left iri fourth time in his career the innings. In his previous appear­error. which has given him just eight the sixth, his ninth. It was the switch-hitter went deep from both ance against Detroit, he struck Russ Springer (1-4) got the final total runs of support. The left­200th home run allowed by the sides and his seventh multihomer out six over 3 2-3 innings of out in the eighth for the win. bander yielded six hits and three Orioles this season, the most in game overall. scoreless relief on Aug. 1 in his Randy Choate pitched the ninth walks over six innings, but the major leagues. Milwaukee Miguel Cabrera had a two-run Cleveland debut after being for his fifth save. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 

Buying NO football tix. GAs. 574­277-1659. 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt., no experience needed, customer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES 
PERSONAL 
LET MARK TRANSPORT YOU TO THE PURDUE GAME. ONLY $45/pp ROUNDTRIP. ROOM FOR 11. CALL 574-360-6480. LEAVE 12 NOON ON SATURDAY. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http:1/csap. nd. edu 
I'd rather be a sparrow than a snail. 
Yes I would. If I could, I surely would. I'd rather be a hammer 
than a nail. 
Yes I would. If I only could, I surely would. 

I know a man He came from my home town He wore his passion for his woman Like a thorny crown He said Dolores I live in fear My love for you's so overpowering I'm afraid that I will disappear 
Michael Turner and LT are currently tanking each of my fantasy teams. 
Happy Anniversary, Baby Girl! 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEltS WIRE SERVICES
Thursday, September 24, 2009 
page 15 
MLB 

Golf World/NIKE Division I Men's Golf Top 25 
team  previous  
1  Oklahoma Slate  5  
2  Washington  5  
3  Georgia  3  
4  Alabama  15  
5  Stanford  20  
6  Arizona State  5  
7  Texas A&M  1  
8  Arkansas  2  
9  Florida  19  
10  Southern California  5  
11  Georgia Tech  10  
12  Illinois  21  
13  North Carolina State  NR  
14  TCU  9  
15  South Carolina  16  
16  UCLA  23  
17  LSU  NR  
18  Tennessee  12  
19  Clemson  NR  
20  Duke  14  
21  Michigan  3  
22 23  Oregon Texas  22 NR  
24  Texas Tech  23  
25  Florida Stale  NR  

NGCA Women's Golf Division I Top25 
team previous 
1 Arizona Stale 1 2 Southern California 3 3 UCLA 2 4 Oklahoma Stale 4 5 Denver 5 6 Wake Forest 13 7 Alabama 11 8 Auburn Nfl 9 Virginia 8 10 Duke 6 11 LSU 12 12 Purdue . 10 13 Pepperdine 9 14 Georgia 15 15 North Carolina 7 16 Arkansas Nfl 17 Arizona 
16 18 Tennessee 
17 19 Ca lilornia Nfl 20 Michigan State 13 21 Vanderbilt Nfl 22 Stanford Nfl 23 Louisville Nfl 24 Kent State Nfl 25 New Mexico 19 
Preseason USTFCCCA Men's Cross Country Top.~() 
team  points  
1  Oregon  357  
2  Oklahoma State  337  
3  Stanford  334  
4  Wisconsin  312 ...  
5  Northern Aritona  302  
6  Colorado  289  
7  lona  288  
8  Portland  268  
9 10  Georgetown Alabama  253 246  

around the dial 
NCAA Football 

Mississippi at South Carolina 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
PGAGolf 
Tour Championship 1 p.m., GOLF 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Bobby Cox will retire as manager of the Atlanta Braves after next season, ending an illustrious career in which he guided the team to 14 consecutive postseason appearances and the 1995 World Series title. 
The 68-year-old Cox, a four-time Manager of the Year, agreed to a one-year contract extension for 2010, the Braves announced before Wednesday night's game against the New York Mets. He will start a five­year consulting agreement to advise the team in baseball operations after he steps down as manag­er. 
"They asked me to come back, and I said I would do it for one more year, and we'll announce the retirement along with it. It's the only way I think I'm ever going to walk away from the game, is to go ahead and say I'm going to, and then I've got to," Cox said. "There's no turning back now -win, lose or draw. Whatever happens next year is going to be it." 
A cigar-smoking base­ball lifer, Cox managed the Braves from 1978-81, switched to manage the Toronto Blue Jays from 1982-85, then returned to manage Atlanta in 1990. 
He began Wednesday 
IN BRIEF 

Chargers' Hardwick has 
surgery on left ankle 
SAN DIEGO -Chargers center Nick Hardwick had surgery on his left ankle on Wednesday and the team said he's expected to miss the next eight weeks. 
The Chargers declined to offer specifics of the surgery. The six­year veteran, a Pro Bowler in 2006, was hurt in the season opener at Oakland on Sept. 14, sustaining what the team said was a sprained ankle. He missed Sunday's 31-26 home loss to the Baltimore Ravens. 
Eight other players missed prac­tice, including running back LaDainian Tomlinson and rookie right guard Louis Vasquez. Coach Norv Turner hinted that Tomlinson (ankle) and Vasquez (knee) might miss their second straight game when the Chargers (1-1) host the Miami Dolphins {0­
2) on Sunday. 
with 2,408 regular-season wins as a manager, fourth behind Connie Mack (3,731), John McGraw (2,763) and Tony LaRussa (2,550). Cox and Joe McCarthy are the only managers with six 100­win regular seasons. 
"There is a little bit of relief once you come to grips with announcing it," Cox said. ''I've never lost the love to manage ­period. But you have to make a decision. At my age, you have to make a decision. Somebody a little younger can start up." 
Braves general manager Frank Wren said he won't start thinking about a suc­cessor for Cox until an appropriate time next sea­son. Both men said Cox probably will have input. 
'Til believe it when I see it," said Braves slugger Chipper Jones, who has played for Cox his entire career. "He's been the one constant through the entire run that we've had over the last 20 years. It'll be a sad day, a sad day when he leaves." 
The 37-year-old Jones said the Braves will have added incentive next sea­son to send Cox out a win­ner. But Jones said he isn't sure he'll stick around long enough to play for a different man­ager. 
''I'm just glad he'll be around for one more year," Jones said. 

Cubs' Bradley.apologize~ to 
team for his benav1or 
MILWAUKEE -Suspended Cubs outfielder Milton Bradley apologized Wednesday for behavior that led to general manager Jim Hendry's deci­sion to banish him for the rest of the season. 
"I chose Chicago as a free agent because I wanted to be part of fmally bringing a championship to the Cubs' fans. I expected to have a great season and I am deeply disappointed by my performance and the team's strug­gles," said Bradley, who signed a $30 million, three-year contract in the off­season. 
But Bradley struggled and was booed loudly at Wrigley Field while hitting .257 with 12 homers and 40 RBis, and the Cubs started Wednesday 
7.5 games out of the NL wild card race at 78-72 after winning 97 games last season. Bradley said his frustration and disappointment caused him to act in a way he regrets. 
PGA golfer Heath Slocum 
donates $40,000 to charity 
ATLANTA -Heath Slocum was in danger of losing his PGA Tour card a month ago. Now he has a chance to win $10 million from the FedEx Cup if he were to win the Tour Championship. 
His fortunes have changed. But not his priorities. 
Slocum donated $40,000 on Wednesday to three charities associ­ated with the Tour Championship. The East Lake Foundation will receive $20,000, while the Children's Healthcare of Atlanta and the Chron's and Colitis Foundation each get $10,000. 
"We're in a good position to help out," Slocum said. "This is something that we've been talking about for a while, and I'm glad that we could do that this week. There are so many great organizations that help so many people. Like I said, I'm just glad that we could even be a small part of it." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 24, 2009 
NFL 

Hasselbeck lllisses practice again 
for 207 yards rushing by San 
Associated Press 

Francisco's Frank Gore last 
RENTON, Wash. -Just weekend, may not practice before listing injuries to 12 or play this week because of starters, a damning dozen a hamstring injury. David that includes quarterback Hawthorne, an undrafted Matt Hasselbeck and is free agent in 2008, would already putting the make his first career start at 
Seahawks'  middle  line­ 
2009 season in  backer  if  
jeopardy, Jim  Tatupu  can't  
Mora laughed.  play.  Outside  
"OK, what I thought we could do is get  "IfI'm not ready by now, going into my  linebacker Leroy Hill is already out  
the injury stuff out of the way, and then if we  seventh year, I shouldn't be playing. ''  until at least November with a torn  
have any time left for ques­ Seneca Wallace  groin. + S  e  a  n  
tions  we  can  Seahawks quarterback  Locklear  is  

get to that," Seattle's coach j o k e d Wednesday. 

Mora then launched into a four-minute monologue detailing the pile of pain, which he calls the worst situ­ation he's had in 26 years of football. 
Hasselbeck didn't practice, and may not at all this week because of his broken rib. Yet Mora said the three-time Pro Bowl quarterback is feel­ing better, "so we're not rul­ing him out at all" for Sunday's game against the Chicago Bears (1-1). 
"But I'm not saying he's going to play, either, OK?" Mora added. 
Hasselbeck watched back­up Seneca Wallace run prac­tice. Wallace, who gives the Bears a running threat to worry about, started eight games last season while Hasselbeck was out with a bad back. He is preparing as if Sunday will be his 13th career start for Seattle (1-1). 
"If I'm not ready to by now, going into my seventh year, I shouldn't be playing," Wallace said. 
likely out a month because of a high ankle sprain. He had 
been playing left tackle for Walter Jones, the nine-time Pro Bowler who returned to practice Wednesday for the first time since he had arthroscopic surgery on his knee Aug. 20. Mora said he isn't sure if Jones will play 
also out with a high ankle sprain. Veteran Travis Fisher, signed in August, was limited in practice Wednesday because of a groin injury. Kelly Jennings, a first-round draft pick in 2006 who recently lost his job, gets it back by default this week. 
+Deion Branch returned to practice and is expected to make his season debut against Chicago. The former Super Bowl MVP has been out since Labor Day with a hamstring injury and has had two knee surgeries in as many offseasons. Top wide receiver T.J. Houshmandzadeh is missing another week of practice with a sore back, though Mora expects him to play again Sunday. 
+Defensive tackle Brandon Mebane could miss his sec­ond consecutive game because of a calf injury. 
Only Trufant is off the 
active roster; 
he's on the 
phyiscally­
unable-to­
perform list. 
So all these 
against the 'Tm absolutely injured bod­Bears. If he ies arc clog­
hoping to play.''
doesn't, Brandon ging up any Frye will make roster room his first start for Matt Hasselbeck t h e Seattle. Seahawks quarterback Seahawks 
+Center Chris Spencer has been out a month with a quadriceps injury. The Seahawks aren't sure if Spencer or Steve Vallos will start Sunday. 
+Marcus Trufant, a Pro Bowl cornerback in 2007, will miss at least six games with a disk issue in his back. Cornerback Josh Wilson is 
would have to sign veter­an reinforce­ments. 
That's why 
Mora talked frankly with his all players during a team meeting Wednesday. 
"Hey, I'll take 45 of you ­doesn't matter which 45 it is and we'll go play Sunday. And we'll be fine," Mora said he told his players. 
NFL 

Marshall ready to forget the past 
Associated Press 

ENGLEWOOD, Colo. Brandon Marshall insists he's comfortable with the Denver Broncos' playbook and that his surgically repaired hip is no longer a concern. 
The mercurial receiver said he doesn't know why he is not play­ing more yet he's willing to accept his role, whatever it may be. 
"I think I'm good enough to be out there," Marshall said. "It doesn't matter what I think. All I can do is embrace it." 
Marshall was more forthcom­ing Wednesday than he's been in a while, responding to questions rather than dodging them with cliches and one-liners. 
Yet he made it clear he doesn't want to keep harping on his eventful offseason, when he asked for a trade and skipped almost all or the Broncos' work­outs while rehabbing his hip, protesting his contract or serving a suspension for insubordination. 
"You guys can ask all the ques­tions you want-you're all ask­ing questions from a month ago," said Marshall, who did not partic­ipate in practice Wednesday due to a cold. "That's the past. Let's move forward. We're 2-0. The fans are happy. The players are happy. The coaches are happy. Everybody is happy. Every Denver Broncos ran is happy right now and I'm the same. A lot of good comes when you're win­ning." 
Winning also helps mask frus­tration. 
Marshall, who made the Pro Bowl last season, spent most of the second quarter on the bench against Cleveland on Sunday, sporting a baseball cap and watching the offense move down the field without him. He played more in the second half after Eddie Royal needed an infusion of IV fluids at halftime. 
Marshall finished with three catches for 34 yards. 
"Me being out there, not being out there as much as I used to be, it's something I have to get used to," Marshall said. "I've learned from trying to fight the system." 
Marshall had a tumultuous spring, missing most of the team's offseason workouts while rehab­bing from hip surgery. He also was upset over the way the team diagnosed his injury and with his contract. Marshall went as far as posting a farewell to Denver fans on his blog earlier this year after his agent, Kennard McGuire, said team owner Pat Bowlen had informed Marshall in a private meeting that he would try to accommodate his trade request. 
Marshall then boiled over in camp, batting down passes dur­ing drills, all of whieh was caught on film. Broncos coach Josh McDaniels suspended him for the last two games of the preseason for his petulant behavior. 
Last season, Marshall was an integral part of the Broncos' offense, catching 104 passes for 1,265 yards. 
While he leads the Broncos in receptions with seven so far, he's yet to really develop a rhythm with new quarterback Kyle Orton, who came over from Chicago in the Jay Cutler trade. 
"Brandon and I still have a ways to go," Orton said. "We're working on it and hopefully we find ways of getting him the ball." 
Although Marshall has yet to fully show off his separation skills on passing routes, he's adamant that his hip is no longer a hin­drance. 
During practice, Hasselbeck took off the team cap he was wearing and put it in his right hand while simulating his twisting throwing motion. Afterward, Hasselbeck grabbed swim goggles and headed to more therapy. 
''I'm absolutely hoping to play," Hasselbeck said Monday. 
Seahawks offensive coordi­nator Greg Knapp said the only quarterback he's had to play after breaking a rib was Steve Young, when both were with the 49ers in the 1990s. 
Mora's fine with Hasselbeck playing with a fractured rib, even if he doesn't practice all week. 
''I'll defer to the doctors and Matt. If the doctors look at me and say 'Jim, Matt's good to go,' and Matt looks me in the eye and says 'I'm going,' then you know what? Matt Hasselbeck is going," the coach said. "Because we're trying to win." 
That's a tough task right now. +Lofa Tatupu, the leader of 
ATHENS, GREECE 

INFORMATION MEETING 
********************************* 
Monday, September 28, 2009 5:30pm 207 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/-ois 

Thursday, September 24, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Dominican Republic center of steroid pandemic 
himself in the hands of an agent myself back," the 19-year-old
Associated Press 
who had him injected with a Jimenez says, taking a break SAN PEDRO DE MACORIS -A mixture both say they thought from batting practice near the monument to baseball greets vis­was legal vitamins. They were metal-roofed shack he shares 
. itors to this city known as "the wrong. with six siblings, two nieces, his cradle of shortstops." Children in After being signed to the mother and an aunt -a home San Pedro de Macoris grow up Arizona Diamondbacks' training that sits under the belching playing ball behind tin shanties squad last year, Jimenez tested smoke stacks of a sugar refmery. and on fields cut from sugar positive for Boldenone, an ana­Jimenez's case is just one plantations. bolic steroid used in horses, and example of a disturbing trend in Bernardino Jimenez was one was slapped with a career­this hotbed of baseball talent. of those kids. He became a victim stalling 50-game suspension. Of the 69 players in the U.S. of his own dream. "They said I would get to travel minor leagues who were sus­Desperate to lift his family out to the United States and play pended for using banned sub­of poverty, the lanky infielder put there. Because of this I held stances in 2008, nearly two thirds -42 -came from the Dominican Summer League, a developmental program for Latin American players housed in secluded palm tree-lined cam­puses owned by big-league teams. This year, 31 of the 71 minor leaguers suspended for using banned substances came from the DSL. In the major leagues, where performance-enhancing sub­stances have been a divisive issue for more than a decade, players with Dominican roots have also been at the center of several high-profile drug cases. Sammy Sosa and Manny Ramirez have been accused in stories by The New York Times of being on a list of more than 100 players alleged to have tested positive during an initial drug survey of MLB players six years ago. David Ortiz has acknowl­edged the union told him he was on the list, and slugger Alex Rodriguez, following a February report in Sports Illustrated, said he used steroids while with Seattle from 2001-03. Rodriguez said a cousin obtained a sub­stance he knew as "boll" in the Dominican Republic. If Dominican players are over­represented in substance use scandals, it's partly because they 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, September 28, 2009 
6:00 PM 217 DeBartolo Hall 
First Year Students and Sophomores May Apply-All Majors Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu /163 Hurley I 631-7251 Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/"'wp 

also are overrepresented in the game. Eighty-one of 818 players on major league opening-day rosters and disabled lists were born in the Spanish-speaking republic -second only to the United States. 
And while some young U.S. players use performance­enhancing drugs, they generally have more options besides base­ball than their Caribbean neigh­bors do. 
For up-and-coming Dominican players, the lure of drugs is sim­ple: All the money baseball can provide. 
The Dominican Republic, which shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti, is a nation where a quarterof the 9.7 mil­lion people live under the poverty line. Steroids, growth hormones, amphetamines and other per­formance-enhancing substances banned by MLB cause health problems -from infertility and depression to heart disease ­but such long-term issues can easily get ignored in the face of daily hardship. 
Many people take much bigger risks in the near-term, like the thousands who chance death each year aboard overloaded, illegal boats bound for Miami or Puerto Rico. Their goal is just to find a minimum-wage job. 
MLB, meanwhile, is a ticket to untold riches. Superstars such as Pedro Martinez come home to ramshackle neighborhoods each winter in Dolce & Gabana suits and luxury SUVs, and even the president scrambles to get a pic­ture with them. 
On signing day, Jimenez landed a $55,000 bonus with Arizona. Even after his trainer's cut, Jimenez reaped what it would take his mother at least 14 years to earn sewing clothes in a facto­ry for U.S. export. 
"Here the only way to get out of poverty is baseball," said Leandro Sepulveda, a San Pedro de Macoris businessman who was formerly Jimenez's agent and trainer. "That's why people are willing to do anything." 
One problem is availability. Steroids and other substances are sold in neighborhood phar­macies and rural veterinary shops without a prescription, though increased scrutiny in recent months has made some stores less willing to stock them. League officials say some also unwittingly self-medicate with banned substances to fight colds or aches in the offseason. 
"We have no control over the young guys as a league. We try to help and we try to give them the necessary education, but they live in someone else's house," said Dominican Summer League chief Orlando Diaz. 
The league is trying to crack down. Since 2003, educators armed with videos, testimonials and power-point presentations have been giving biweekly anti­drug talks, and players are sub­jected to three random urine tests a season. The 50-game sus­pensions have been in place since 2007 and, to hear players throughout the league talk, the deterrent message is starting to get through. 
"If a player tests positive down here, he knows that his career might be in jeopardy," says Pablo Peguero, the San Francisco Giants' chief scout for Latin America. 
MLB realizes performance­enhancing substances are far more easily available in the Dominican Republic than the United States. where regulations have been toughened and many supplements became prescrip­tion-only starting in January 2005. 
"We think it would be helpful if the legal framework in the Dominican Republic were similar to ours in terms of the regulation of performance-enhancing drugs," said Rob Manfred, MLB's executive vice president of labor relations. 
It is hard to overstate the power baseball holds over the Dominican Republic. 
The game was brought here by Cuban war refugees in the mid­19th century. When U.S. Marines invaded in the early 20th, they found professional local baseball teams already good enough to beat them. Dominican players broke into the majors about a decade after MLB's color line was shattered, with Ozzie Virgil in 1956, and within a few short decades they were among the best in the game. 
In the balmy winter, fans pack raucous stadiums, rum and empanadas in hand, to cheer local teams with current major leaguers on the rosters. Images of Ortiz and others are used to sell everything from soft drinks to Viagra knock-offs. A major bank bills itself as "the official sponsor of the dream of making the major leagues." 
In summer, the big-league academies go into full swing, with the 33 teams of the Dominican Summer League fac­ing off with the same uniforms and equipment as their parent clubs. 
Jimenez's hometown of San Pedro de Macoris alone has sent at least 73 players to the majors, including Sosa, Alfonso Soriano, Tony Fernandez and Robinson Cano. 
Everything around young hopefuls trumpets the rewards of a baseball career. 
Jimenez, a lean, muscular prospect with close-cropped hair, grew up outside town in a batey, one of the scores of worker camps for Haitian and Dominican sugar cane cutters that dot the countryside and are known for deep poverty and high rates of AIDS and other diseases. It was there he learned to field grounders on ~ rough dirt, and word spread '11Utside the batey that he had "the tools." 
Before long, Jimenez was drawing the attention of bus­cones -blends of trainers, scouts, language coaches, guardians and agents who often are the only link between illiter­ate families and MLB clubs. Some are former players with tightly organized camps that drill in Santo Domingo parks, others are untrained opportunists, but all have one goal: A percentage, sometimes more than half, of signing bonuses that can range into the millions of' dollars. 
Jimenez ended up with Sepulveda, a smooth-talking entrepreneur only eight years his senior who sports his own set of rippling muscles and is partial to tight polo shirts. He had no play­ing experience of his own, but offered something even better to an impoverished mother looking out for her son -free room and three meals a day in a new, con­crete house. 
"I am a civil engineer and I work in construction. But four years ago, I realized baseball was giving out money, so I got into this," said the trainer, who also represented recent Houston Astros pitching signee Miguel Cedano. 
..--------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 24, 2009 
NBA 

Russian billionaire nearing deal for Nets 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Could the New Jersey Nets become the Nyets? 
The basketball team once known as the New Jersey Americans is a step closer to being owned by Russia's richest man, Mikhail Prokhorov, who on Wednesday said he has a deal to buy 80 percent of the NBA team and nearly half of a project to build a new arena in Brooklyn. 
The proposed blockbuster deal would give the Nets' cur­rent principal owner, Bruce Ratner, the needed cash to move forward with the centerpiece of his Atlantic Yards development, which includes plans for retail and residential projects. 
It would make Prokhorov, a Russian billionaire and former amateur basketball player, the NBA's first non-North American owner. 
It would mean the Nets really do seem headed to Brooklyn, a New York City borough without a major pro sports franchise since baseball's Dodgers decamped for Los Angeles in 1957. 
And it would be a sign the NBA is serious about building a worldwide identity. Commissioner David Stern immediately praised the deal, saying it will help the NBA expand its reach and would ensure that the Nets, who play in the aging lzod Center in East Rutherford, will have a state-of­the-art arena. 
"Interest in basketball and the NBA is growing rapidly on a global basis, and we are espe­cially encouraged by Mr. Prokhorov's commitment to the Nets and the opportunity it presents to continue the growth of basketball in Russia," Stern said in a statement. 
Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, too, is ready to welcome Prokhorov to the NBA. 
"I love it. I think he will bring fresh ideas and viewpoints, and hopefully this will be the start of a trend towards international investors," Cuban said in an e­mail to The Associated Press. "Plus, I took Russian in high school, so it will give me a chance to refresh." 
Stern has long touted the NBA's international reach, proudly boasting that two-thirds of the players on the medals podium at the Beijing Olympics were NBA players. The league plays preseason games in Europe and China, and its All­Star and NBA finals games have been televised in hundreds of countries. 
In going global, Stern could be welcoming quite a globetrotter. 
Prokhorov, who is 6-foot-6 and was an avid basketball player in his school days, is a fixture in glitzy European resorts and once was held in France for four days of ques­tioning -but never charged ­in a prostitution investigation. Even in Russia, he raises eye­brows for his penchant for pri­vate jets and a gorgeous entourage. A 2007 TV commer­cial for a Hussian juice company lampooned him, although it did not name him. 
Prokhorov's love of the high life is rivaled by his devotion to basketball. He owns a share of the Russian team CSKA Moscow, and he said on his blog he wants to buy the Nets partly to get access to NBA training methods and help Hussian coaches get internships in the league. 
Hussia has a proud basketball tradition, having won the Euro championship in 2007, and CSKA is a perennial Euroleague power. Yet Andrei Kirilenko, a Utah Jazz forward, is the only Hussian currently in tho NBA. 
It remains to be seen how Prokhorov's jet-setting lifestyle might play with Nets fans, but the NBA will be far more inter­ested in his finances. Prokhorov has been ranked as his coun­try's richest man in the Hussian edition of Forbes, with an esti­mated $9.5 billion -even after shrinking by some $7 billion in the world economic crisis. 
He weathered the financial storm by cashing out some lucrative assets before the downturn battered commodity markets. 
Another rich Hussian oligarch, Homan Abramovich, is the owner of the British soccer power Chelsea. Uzbokistan-born billionaire Alisher Usmanov owns more than 25 percent of another British soccer team, Arsenal. 
"In any sport nowadays, if you can bring someone in who is financially stable, it is great for the sport, and I think it will be great for the NBA," former play­er and current TV analyst Charles Barkley said. "If he's going to do some work on the building and not take advantage of the fans, that's great for the city." 
The franchise started with the ABA in 1967 as the Americans and then the Nets, bouncing around to different arenas in New Jersey and New York before settling in East Hutherford in 1981-82. 
It's not clear how Brooklyn's sports fans, who have nursed their wounded pride ever since tho Dodgers left, might take to a team with foreign ownership. 
There's already been commu­nity grumbling over the British bank Barclays buying the nam­ing rights to the arena -and also the rights to name the sub­way station beneath it. 
Brooklyn's famed Hussian enclave of Brighton Beach is only a few miles from the pro­posed arena, but for many Hussian emigrants Prokhorov symbolizes everything wrong in their homeland -a smooth operator who made a fortune when Russia sold off its state industrial treasures for a song. 
Nets president Rod Thorn said he expects little reaction about a Hussian owner: "I don't think players really care who owns the team." 
Los Angeles Lakers guard 
Derek Fisher, who also is presi­dent of the NBA players' associ­ation, said the deal "speaks to the fact there's something that potential ownership groups still see about the NBA that is good because you wouldn't have any­body -European, Hussian, American -buying into an NBA team at this point if they didn't see something that was a positive for them to get out of the deal." 
Prokhorov's Onexim Group announced the deal jointly with Forest City Ratner Cos. and Nets Sports and Entertainment. According to the agreement, entities to be formed by Onexim Group will invest $200 million and make funding commitments to acquire 80 percent of the NBA team, 45 percent of the arena project and the right to buy up to 20 percent of the Atlantic Yards Development Co., which will develop the non­arena real estate. 
The NBA will review the pro­posal, and the deal must be approved by three-fourths of its board of governors. Ratner and Prokhorov said they hope to have the sale completed by the first quarter of 2010. 
"I have a long-standing pas­sion for basketball and pursuing interests that forward the devel­opment of the sport in Russia," Prokhorov said in a statement. "I look forward to becoming a member of the NBA and work­ing with Bruce and his talented team to bring the Nets to Brooklyn." 
Available through December 16 
8:00 pm -1:00 am 1Sunday-Wednesday 
Walk-ins are available or students may reserve space in advance by calling (574) 631-9915 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
.

WNOTREDAME The Career Center •
ur·I!V~;l!Sll'Y OF ;-iOTKI\ fl/1)1f, 
Division ofStudent AfFairs 
standout. 

Thursday, September 24, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WNBA 
Three-point barage sends Mercury past Sparks 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Diana Taurasi scored 28 points and the Phoenix Mercury hit 14 3­pointers to hold off the Los Angeles Sparks 103-94 Wednesday night in Game 1 of the WNBA Western Conference finals. 
Playing the fourth quarter with five fouls, Taurasi made 5 of her 6 free throws over the final 1:09 to win the game played at UCLA's Pauley Pavilion on the court named for coach John Wooden and his wife Nell. 
The Sparks were forced out of their downtown home arena because of a Britney Spears concert at Staples Center. Game 2 is Friday night in Phoenix. 
Penny Taylor added 18 points, Cappie Pondexter 15 and Le'coe Willingham 12 for Phoenix. 
Candace Parker led the Sparks with 28 points and 10 rebounds. Tina Thompson added 25 points and Lisa Leslie 19. 
Magic Johnson, who won NBA titles with Sparks coach 
Michael Cooper on the Los Angeles Lakers, sat in the front row. Taurasi shook hands with Johnson as she walked back upcourt in the fourth. 
The Mercury's 3-pointers eclipsed the nine they made against San Antonio on Saturday in the first round. · 
Phoenix earned its first-ever playoff victory over the Sparks in the teams' first postseason meeting since the first round in 2000. The Mercury dominated the teams' season series 3-1, los­ing only the regular season finale on Sept. 13 in a game Taurasi sat out. 
The game was tied twice early in the fourth and the Sparks twice closed within two in the final 1:09. But they were forced to foul and Taurasi and Tangela Smith were solid at the line. 
Thompson, Parker and Leslie controlled the Sparks' offense in the third quarter, when they outscored the Mercury 2 2-19. 
Phoenix extended its lead to 69-61 late in the third on five straight points by Taylor. 
Thompson was in the midst of her own 8-0 run, capped by a 3-pointer, and Noelle Quinn hit two free throws to get the Sparks within one. Ketia Swanier hit a 3-pointer to keep the Mercury ahead 72­68 heading into the final 10 minutes. 
Phoenix led by 10 points early in the second quarter before the Sparks used a 20­10 run to tie the game at 44. Parker had 10 points in the spurt. 
But the Mercury regained the lead with a 9-2 run to go into halftime ahead 53-46. Quinn, who played collegiately at UCLA, committed two turnovers and Leslie fouled Taurasi, who completed the three-point play. 
Th-e Mercury raced to a 19-8 lead to start the game, when the Sparks missed seven of their first 10 field goal attempts. They went more than 3 minutes without scor­ing while Phoenix ran off 12 consecutive points and shot 70 percent from the floor. 
The Sparks regrouped and closed the quarter on an 11-7 run to trail 26-19. 

MLB 
Cards fail to clinch playoff berth against Astros 
Hudson leads Braves over Mets in wake of manager's retirement announcement; Nats surge past Dodgers in ninth 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Bud Norris and the Houston Astros put the St. Louis Cardinals' celebration on ice. 
The Astros' 24-year-old rookie shut out the Cardinals for the second time and St. Louis missed a chance to capture the NL Central in a 3-0 loss to the Astros on Wednesday night. 
The magic number for St. Louis dropped to one when the Cubs lost in Milwaukee before this game ended. But Norris (6­
3) pitched six shutout innings and Jose Valverde pitched a scoreless ninth for his 24th save. 
The Cardinals had 25 cases of champagne waiting in the club­house, but the bottles will remain corked for at least another day. 
St. Louis can clinch the divi­sion from their hotel in Colorado on Thursday, a day off, if the Cubs lose the opener of a week­end series in San Francisco. The Cardinals open a series against the Rockies on Friday. 
Carlos Lee drove in two runs for the Astros, who snapped a nine-game losing streak. 
John Smoltz (1-2) gave up two runs on five hits. The Cardinals mustered only seven hits after reaching 15 in the first two games in Houston. 
Norris gave up four hits and two walks in the first three innings, but the Cardinals stranded all six runners. 
Kazuo Matsui led off the Houston half of the third with a double to the left-field corner. Matsui advanced on Norris' bunt and scored on Miguel Tejada's two-out single for a 1-0 lead. 
The Astros ended the fourth and sixth innings with double plays as the Cardinals continue to have problems with Norris. The right-hander won his major league debut in St. Louis on Aug. 2, allowing two hits in seven shutout innings. 
Tejada doubled in the Astros' sixth, took third on Lance Berkman's flyout and came home on Lee's sacrifice fly to deep left to make it 2-0. 
Jeff Fulchino relieved Norris for the seventh and struck out the side. 
St. Louis had the tying run at the plate after Colby Rasmus beat out an infield single with one out in the eighth against LaTroy Hawkins. Albert Pujols lined out and Matt Holliday grounded into a fielder's choice. 
Dennys Reyes walked the speedy Michael Bourn with no outs in the eighth and Ryan Franklin relieved. 
Franklin struck out Tejada, but then threw a wild pitch to Berkman, allowing Bourn to take second. Berkman was intentionally walked before Lee blooped an RBI single to center. 
The manual scoreboard in left field posted the final score of the Cubs-Brewers game moments before Franklin struck out Hunter Pence to end the eighth. 
Atlanta 5, New York 2 
Tim Hudson pitched six effec­tive innings for his second win since major elbow surgery and the Atlanta Braves beat the New York Mets 5-2 on Wednesday night to complete a three-game sweep. 
Hours after announcing Bobby Cox will retire as manager fol­lowing next season, the Braves won for the 11th time in 13 games. Clinging to scant playoff hopes, Atlanta began the day five games behind Colorado for the NL wild card. 
Adam LaRoche had three hits and two RBis. Late substitute Kelly Johnson also knocked in two runs for the Braves, who won their seventh straight road game and finished 13-5 against New York this year. 
It was their first sweep on the road against the Mets since July 2003 at Shea Stadium. 
All-Star catcher Brian McCann was back in the Braves' lineup after leaving Tuesday night's game with a bruised left wrist. Third baseman Chipper Jones, however, came out in the sev­enth with a stiff back. 
Johnson was inserted into the lineup at second base to replace Martin Prado, scratched after getting hit in the left knee with line drive during batting prac­tice. X-rays were negative and he is day to day with a bone bruise. 
Mike Pelfrey (10-12) gave up four runs -three earned -and nine hits in six innings for the feeble Mets, limping to the end of a miserable season. They have lost nine of 11 and 13 of 16. 
Hudson (2-1) allowed nine hits and two walks in his fifth start since coming back from elbow ligament replacement surgery performed in August 2008. 
Handed a 3-0 lead in the sec­ond, the right-hander pitched out of trouble all night and threw 58 of his 87 pitches for strikes. Luis Castillo hit an RBI single in the third and the Mets put runners on second and third with nobody out, but David Wright grounded out, Carlos Beltran struck out and Daniel Murphy bounced out. 
With the bases loaded in the fourth, Castillo grounded into an inning-ending double play. 
Mike Gonzalez worked around a leafoff double in a scoreless eighth before Rafael Soriano got three outs for his 26th save. 
Angel Pagan also drove in a run for New York, which was 2 for 18 with runners in scoring position. Murphy went 0 for 4 and grounded into a double play, stranding seven runners. 
The 68-year-old Cox, a four­time Manager of the Year, agreed to a one-year contract extension for 2010. He will start a five-year consulting agreement to advise the team in baseball operations after he steps down as manager. 
'Til believe it when I see it," said Jones, who has played for Cox his entire career. 
During an illustrious career on the bench, Cox has guided Atlanta to 14 consecutive post­season appearances (1991-2005) and the 1995 World Series title. 
"There's no turning back now -win, lose or draw," he said. "Whatever happens next year is going to be it." 
Washington 5, Los Angeles 4 
Andre Ethier booted pinch-hit­ter Pete Orr's fly to right field in the ninth inning, allowing Justin Maxwell to score, and the Washington Nationals averted their 1DOth loss of the season with a 5-4 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers on Wednesday night. 
Maxwell started the decisive rally with a single down the left­field line off James McDonald (5­
5) to open the ninth. Alberto Gonzalez bunted Maxwell to sec­ond and Maxwell stole third before Jorge Padilla walked. 
Orr, who was 2 for 13 as a pinch hitter, hit a fly to medium right and the ball bounced off the Ethier's glove as he back­tracked and Maxwell scored. Orr was credited with a sacrifice fly and Ethier was given an error on the play. 
The Dodgers' magic number to clinch a spot in the postseason remained at two. Any combina­tion of Los Angeles victories and Colorado losses totaling seven will give the Dodgers the NL West title for a second straight season, a feat last accomplished in 1977-78. 
Saul Rivera (1-3) got two outs for the victory after the Dodgers had tied it 4-all against Nationals closer Mike MacDougal. 
Dodgers right-hander Chad Billingsley had a no-hitter for 5 2-3 innings before Ryan Zimmerman hit a tying three­run homer. Billingsley, who retired the first 14 Nationals before consecutive walks to Adam Dunn and Zimmerman in the fourth, allowed three runs on one hit over six innings, walked four and struck out nine. 
Los Angeles manufactured a run for a 1-0 lead in the first. Rafael Furcal singled up the middle and stole second, advanced to third on a ground­out and scored on Ethier's bounceout to second. 
A bases-loaded single by Russell Martin made it 2-0, but right fielder Elijah Dukes threw out Ethier, who was trying to score from second, at the plate for the third out of the fourth inning. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 24, 2009 
MLB 
Lidge blows another save, Marlins beat Phils 
Beckett, Ortiz lead Boston over lowly Royals; San Diego takes down Colorado, snap eight-game home winning streak 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Pinch-hitter Brett Carroll capped a two-run rally against closer Brad Lidge in the ninth inning with an RBI single, giving the Florida Marlins a 7-6 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies on Wednesday night. 
Jorge Cantu tied it with a single off Lidge (0-8), who blew his major league-leading 11th save. 
Lidge entered to start the ninth with a 6-5 lead and promptly gave up a double to Ross Gload, who advanced to third on Chris Coghlan's fly out. Lidge struck out pinch-hitter John Baker before walking Hanley Ramirez. Cantu then lined a single to left­center to score Gload and make it 6-all. 
Carroll fell behind 0-2 before singling to center to score RamirPz. 
Dan Meyer (3-1) pitched an inning of scoreless relief for the win in the soggy game. 
A 45-minute delay in the mid­dle of the eighth inning signifi­cantly thinned the announced crowd of 31,042. Florida has drawn more than that just seven times this season. 
Ryan Howard doubled, home­red and drove in four runs for the Phillies, whose magic number to clinch the NL East remained five. 
The Phillies went ahead 6-3 in the seventh on Howard's two-run homer but pinch-hitter Gaby Sanchez homered off Cole Hamels in the bottom half and Cody Ross had a two-out RBI sin­gle in the eighth to make it 6-5. 
Hamels gave up four runs and eight hits in seven innings. He struck out four and hit a batter. 
Raul Ibanez's solo homer tied it at 3 with one out in the sixth. Ibanez sent an 0-2 pitch into the right-center field seats for his 33rd home run. 
Pedro Feliz followed with a hard double down the left-field line. After Paul Bako flied out, Hamels singled hard past second baseman Dan Uggla to score Feliz with the go-ahead run. 
In the seventh, Chase Utley walked off reliever Renyel Pinto with one out. Howard then homered to left to give Philadelphia a 6-3 lead. It was Howard's 42nd home run. 
Florida took a 3-2 lead in the fifth. 
Ross led off with his 24th home run. Ronny Paulino followed with a double to right-center and took third on starter Rick VandenHurk's sacrifice. Coghlan followed with a softly lined run­scoring single to left. 
Cantu's RBI single pulled Florida to 2-1 in the fourth. Cameron Maybin opened with a double and took third on Ramirez's ground out. Cantu then lined a single to right to score Maybin. 
Howard's two-out, two-run double in the third gave Philadelphia 2-0 lead. 
VandenHurk allowed four runs and seven hits in six innings. He walked one, struck out five and hit two batters. 
Boston 9, Kansas City 2 
David Ortiz homered and drove in four runs, and Josh Beckett allowed two runs over six innings to lift the Boston Red Sox to a win over the Kansas City Royals Wednesday night. 
Jason Bay and Jacoby Ellsbury each drove in two runs and Ortiz had a run-scoring single in Boston's six-run fifth inning off Luke Hochevar (7-11). Ortiz added his 25th homer in the eighth, a three-run shot off Carlos Rosa to give Boston 90 wins for the third consecutive season. 
Beckett (16-6) limited the dam­age from 12 hits with seven strikeouts, improving to 5-0 with a 2.03 ERA in seven eareer starts against Kansas City. 
Yuniesky Betancourt had a run-scoring triple among his three hits and Mitch Maier also had three hits for the Hoyals, who stranded 12 runners to see their six-game home winning streak end. 
Wanting to get more pop in the lineup, Red Sox manager Terry Francona had Victor Martinez behind the plate instead of Beckett's usual battery mate, John Varitek. He tried it once before and it didn't work out too well: Beckett allowed seven earned runs in 5 1/3 innings against Toronto on Aug. 18. 
Francona was willing to try it again with Varitek struggling ­.156, one homer since the All­Star break -and Martinez on a eareer-best 21-game hitting streak. 
Martinez did his part with the bat, extending his hitting streak with a single in the fifth inning. He wasn't bad behind the plate, either, helping guide Beckett through some shaky moments. 
The right-hander wasn't sharp from the start, allowing two run­ners in each of the first three innings. Beckett wriggled out of those jams, then gave up two runs in the fourth on Betancourt's triple and a flare RBI single to right by David DeJesus. 
The next half inning changed everything. 
Held to one run over the first four innings, the Red Sox unloaded on Hochevar in the fifth, scoring six runs on seven hits to go up 6-2. Ellsbury drove in two with a triple and Bay had the biggest blow on the softest hit, floating a two-run single into short left field with the bases loaded. 
Pitching with a cushion, Beckett had his first perfect inning in the bottom half, then got Billy Butler on a fly to right with two on to end the sixth. He was done after that, leaving with a 6-2 lead and another win against the Royals. 
Hochevar, coming off a three­hitter for his first career shutout, gave up six runs on eight hits in five innings. He's allowed at least three runs in an inning 13 times in 23 starts this season. 
San Diego 6, Colorado 3 
Will Venable homered and tied a career high by driving in four runs in the San Diego Padres' win over Colorado on Wednesday night that snapped the Rockies' eight-game home winning streak. 
The Rockies' lead in the NL wild-card race was whittled to four games over Atlanta, which beat the New York Mets 5-2 Wednesday night. The San Francisco Giants, who played at Arizona, also began the night five games behind Colorado. 
Venable hit a solo homer in the second, his 12th, and added a three-run double in the fifth off right-hander Jason Marquis 05­12), who failed for the third time to win his career-best 16th game. 

Heliever Ryan Webb (1-0) got the win with one inning of score­less relief and Heath Bell pitched the ninth for his 40th save in 46 tries. 
With one man on and two outs, Troy Tulowitzki was rung up by homo plate umpire Rob Drake on a full-eount ofT-speed pitch that the shortstop thought was high and tight for balll(mr. 
Marquis was tagged for six runs, live of them earned, on fivo hits and five walks in just 4 2/3 innings. Matt Herges replaced him with two men on his error covering first on Tony Gwynn's chopper allowed Venable to score and make it 6-0. 
Hight-hander Tim Staulfer took a no-hitter into the fifth inning but left after allowing two runs on three hits, denying him the victory because he only went 4 2­3 innings. 
Clint Harmes led ofT the inning with a double and scored on Seth Smith's single. Tulowitzki chased Stauffer with an HBI single that made it 6-2. 
Webb walked Brad Hawpe, loading the bases, but got Yorvit Torrealba to ground out to sec­ond to end the inning. 
The Rockies pulled to 6-3 on Todd Helton's sacrifice fly off lefty Joe Thatcher in the seventh. 
STUDENTS 

Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session 
BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday1 September 13th and Sunday1 September 27th1 at 7:00pm in Geddes Hall {CSC Building) in B001 Andrews Auditorium. 
The sessions will last approximately 45 minutes. 
Please bring your driver's license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, 
faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. 
See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
If you have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you 
may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
Thursday, September 24, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
VI 

A TIME TO BE SILENT & A TIME TO SPEAK: ACTIVE BYSTANDER TRAINING Are you interested in working to prevent rape and sexual assault at Notre Dame? 
Are you seeking tools to help a friend or survivor ofrape or sexual assault? 
Do you want to be an active bystander on campus? 
WHAT: 
RAPE & SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION EDUCATION FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
• 
Interactive training session with dinner provided 

• 
For students interested in working to prevent rape and sexual assault on campus 

• 
Including role plays and small group discussion 

• 
Featuring Annie Envall, Assistant Director at SOS of Madison Center, the Rape Crisis Center of St. Joseph County 

• 
Program will address: · How to obtain "consent" · How to be an active bystander · How to help a friend or survivor 


WHEN: 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2009; 5:30 -8:00PM 
WHERE: 
NOTRE DAME ROOM, LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
HOW: 
RSVP BY EMAIL TO grc@nd.edu NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, 9/24 at Spm! 
GRC~ 
gender relations center 
~u LaFortune • grc.nd.tdu • gt(fl'nd."Jn • "i7<f·6i'·'H<fO 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 24, 2009 
Youth 
continued from page 24 
Emerging as one of the team's biggest offensive con­tributors, sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy leads the squad with 126 total kills (3.5 kills/set) and 9 serving aces, and is second in total points with 139 (3.86 points/set). 
"Kristen Dealy is just so valu­able for us in every aspect of the game, just a great overall player," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "She definitely has the capability to be a dominant hitter at the collegiate level." 
In recognition of her efforts, Dealy was named Big East Conference Player of the Week following the Irish sweep of the Notre Dame/adidas Invitational. Dealy led the Irish with 19 kills and 13 digs for her first double-double of the season against Wisconsin, and added a match-high 12 kills against New Mexico State later in the showcase. 
But the Irish's success this season cannot be attributed to just one performer. Junior mid­dle blocker Kellie Sciacca, named to the All-Big East Preseason Team, has played a dominant role at the net for the Irish in clutch situations. Sciacca paces the team with 8 solo blocks and 31 total blocks 
Walker 
continued from page 24 
ments need to be made throughout the season." 
The National Catholic Invitational was only the sec­ond meet of the season and far less competitive than the rest of the meets the 2009 season will bring for the team. 
"National Catholic is our least important meet of the year, but as the season goes on the meets keeping getting more important," said Walker. 
For Walker, his most impor­tant goal for the remainder of (0.86 blocks/set), and is third overall in kills and points. 
Senior outside hitter Serinity Phillips, who leads the Irish in points (144) and in kills along­side Dealy, recognizes the sen­iors' role of leading by exam­ple. 
"It's a matter of just doing what you know how to do, trusting your teammates, going out there, and trying not to over-think things," Phillips said. 
Yet the Irish will need to rely on more than just their ability to overpower their opponents if they are to have success in the conference. Sophomore Iibera Frenchy Silva, the defensive specialist who leads the team in digs with 95 (2. 79 digs/set), may be the missing link that puts the Irish over the top. 
"She's a great defender, gives us good spark, does a lot of good things," Brown said. "She'll cover balls off a block, she'll get great digs, she'll end up setting the second ball when Jamel digs it, and getting our hitters good swings. I think she's really developing her whole game as well." 
The Irish will need to rely on their balance of senior experi­ence and young talent as they make a bid for the NCAA Tournament. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

the season is clear and suc­At the 2008 NCAA cinct: becoming an All­Championship meet, Walker American. To receive the came in 96th place. This sea­honor, he must qualify for the son, he has his eyes set on 
NCAA champi­onship race and place in the top-"!have wanted to 50. 
do this ever since I 
"I have wanted 
started running in
to do this ever since I started college., running in col­lege," Walker 
Jake Walker 
said. 
Irish runner
As a senior, this year marks his last chance to do placing in the top-15 at the national meet in Terre Haute, Ind. in November. 
To prepare himself for meet­ing his goals for the season, Walker switched his summer training pro­gram. 

so, but placing well in the "The summer training went National Catholic Invitational really well because I stayed shows he has an excellent shot. injury free for the most part," Walker said. "I trained a little more conservative than past years to make sure I am at my best when the NCAA Championships roll around in November." 
Now that the se.ason in back in full swing, Walker has a training plan that he hopes will increase his chances of a good performance when it counts the most. 
"I am just working on getting in consistent training through­out the season and making small improvements every week," he said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 24 

posted 10 kills and 10 digs while Bodien and Sasgen had nine kills apiece. 
The Belles (5-5, 2-3) look to make it two in a row tonight, putting their overall record above .500 for the first time since Sept. 4. 
"A win tomorrow would be great," Kuschel said. "However if we play to the best of our ability and we communicate well on and off the court I believe the wins will take care of them­selves." 
Tonight's game is sched­uled for a 7 p.m. start. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 24 
ed out the day with a 408. 

Saint Mary's freshman Martyna Mierzwa and soph­omore Natalie Matuszak both took a share of second in the tournament, leading the Belles with scores of 79. Junior Rosie O'Connor shot an 81 for a share of fifth place, and junior Mary Kate Boyce a piece of tenth with an 83. Senior Perri Hamma shot an 86 to round out the Belles' top-five golfers. 
Saint Mary's currently holds the first spot in the MIAA rankings with a team score of 639. Olivet follows in second with 650, and Hope in third with 676. 
Next up for Saint Mary's is the DePauw University Small College Classic 
Saturday  and  Sunday  at  
Deer  Creek  Golf Club  in  
Clayton, Ind.  

Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

WNBA 
Detroit cruises to convincing win over Fever 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -For 17 minutes, the Indiana Fever looked like the best team in the Eastern Conference. 
After that, they regressed back to the group that has been elimi­nated by the Detroit Shock in each of the last three postsea­sons. 
After leading for the entire first half, the Fever only scored 19 second-half points as Detroit rolled to an easy 72-56 victory Wednesday night in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals. 
"I thought Detroit played like a team that wanted to win the game more than we did," Indiana coach Lin Dunn said. "We didn't match their energy or their intensity in the second half, and that's very disappointing." 
Detroit, which has won 12 of its last 14 games after a 9-14 start, is looking for a fourth straight trip to the WNBA fmals despite losing Plenette Pierson (shoulder) and Katie Smith (back). 
"I thought that early in the game, we looked like a team that hadn't played since Friday," Detroit coach Rick Mahorn said. "We started to click in the sec­ond quarter, especially on defense." 
The Fever led 35-24 with three minutes left in the second quar­ter, but Detroit went on a 11-2 run to make it a two-point game at halftime. 
"I thought we really missed a big opportunity there," said Katie Douglas, who led Indiana with 16 points. "We started off really well, and we had them on their heels, but we let them get some confidence." 
Rookie Shavonte Zellous scored 16 of her game-high 23 points in the first half, including 12 in the second quarter. 
"Without Katie, I know that I have to step up my offense, because I'm our second offensive option now," Zellous said. "Tonight, I really felt the !low of the game as soon as I came in. I felt like that run at the end of the second quarter really gave us a great boost." 
The Shock kept the momen­tum after the break, scoring the first six points of the third quar­ter. They held Indiana to six third-quarter points to take a 52-43 lead into the fourth. The Fever missed 13 of 16 shots in the period and turned the ball over six times. 
"I don't think we're worried about the times we've lost to Detroit in the past -I just think that's a great basketball team," Dunn said. "They were the world champions a year ago, and they are tough to beat at home. We've just got to do a bet­ter job Friday at our place." 
The Fever cut the margin to four, but Deanna Nolan scored the next six points and Zellous added a three-point play to put Detroit ahead 63-50 with 5:09 to play. Nolan, who received a tro­phy before the game for her All­WNBA second-team berth, fin­ished with 22 points. 
"We rely a lot on the play of our guards, and they came through for us again tonight," Mahorn said aftnr his team won its eighth straight playofT game. "Nolan has been superb in the last few weeks, and Zellous has been lights out in the playoffs. There were some big posses­sions down the stretch, and those two hit the shots that we nended." 

---------~-----------------------.. 
Thursday, September 24, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gorski 
33_cloud 38 Albanian coin 48 Old comic strip (region of " an' Slats" 
41 How mini-pizzas 
comets far 50 Concord 
are usually cut 
beyond Pluto) 52 O.K.'s from the34 Celtic land 42 Each 

O.K. Corral? 35 "Beauty and the 
43 Sounds off 54 Exits 
Beat" band 44 1958 #1 song 55 School basics
36 P.D.Q. Bach's 
with the lyric

"Sanka Cantata" 59 Presidential 
"Let's fly way up

and such nickname 
to the clouds" 

37 Final words of 60 Square dance Numbers 5:22 45 Bully's warning partner 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Erik-Michael Estrada. 30; Kip Pardue, 33; Matt Hardy, 35; Bmce Springsteen, 60 
Happy Birthday: This is a great year to make changes that may have been impossible in the past_ Look forward with optimism and refuse to be held back any longer by fear or ·_..by others. You have so much to offer if you buckle dovm and strive to achieve your goals. Now is the time to execute your ideas and plans one-by-one. Your numbers are 3, 10, 17,24,29,35,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Troubles at home can fester if you don't make alterations to your current lifestyle. Spending on luxury items may be tempting but don't do so be­cause of someone you love. Giving in will only lead to more demands.***** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make some headway professionally if you skip the nonsense going on armmd you. Concentrate on work, socializing with people who have something to offer and making some sound changes, ensuring that you do the best work possible and impress the people who really count. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You11 be excitable and engaged in whatever is going on around you but, before you put cash down, consider the cost involved. Don't be fooled by what others do or say. Find out first hand.*** 
CA.t..,CER (June 21-July 22): Put a little elbow grease into the changes yon want to see at home and you won't have to complain about things not being the way you want. If you want something done, do it yourself and move on_ *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't spend foolishly trying to impress someone who will only take advantage of your generosity. Self-improvement projects or finding other ways to bring in more cash should be your focus_ * * 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make some positive changes at home, incorporat­ing some of the things you want to pursue into malting your life easier. A promise made by a colleague may not be clear. Ask questions before you sign up. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't falsify something in order to avoid the trouble the nutb will cause. Get things out in the open and behind you_ Moving forward isn't always easy but it can help relieve your stress and add to future prosperity and peace of mind. 
*** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put a little love in your life _If you've been spending too much time on work and projects. you may have to backtrack. A trip that includes the ones you love will pay off in the respoiL<;e you receive_ *** 
SAGIITARRTS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take a deep breath and face the music_ There are changes that need to be made and. if you don't hurry up and make them, someone else wilL Ifyou want to stay in control, clear up any misunderstanding before it's too late_ 
*** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take care of your health. your wealth and any pend­
ing. legal matters_ Someone may try to talk you into something that you shouldn't take 
part in or spend your money OIL *** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Something new will be offered that von should con­sider-a money deal. new position or chanee to buy into something that can potentially change your life_ A conservative friend or relative will give you valid advice_ **** 
PlSCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Don't do it if it doesn't feel right. A mishap due to care­lessness is likely to occur if you haven't prepared wisely. Stick close to home where you can reduce your risk of injury or financial setbacks. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional. intense and dedicated. You are curious, secretive and mysterious. You strive for peace of mind and follow your own path. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Big name in oil 7 Easter flower, in 
Is-sur-Tille 1 0 Butterfly wings, e.g. 14 The fool in "A fool and his money are soon 
parted" 16 Tabula 17 Excuse given for 
asking for a ride 18 Humanoid trees 
in Tolkien 19 Ticks, say: Abbr. 20 Toddler's attire 21 Time for potty 
training, maybe 22 Rests 25 Chorus line 
opener 27 Handel cantata e Leandro" 28 Promgoers, e.g.: 
Abbr. 29 Burning 32 Not shaky 34 Jagged 
35 Clinks overseas 36 What's revealed by connecting the special squares in this puzzle in order 39 Start of the United Negro College Fund slogan 
40 Kosher 41 _ Szewinska, Olympic sprinting gold medalist of 1964, 1968 and 1976 
42 Want from 43 Ab -(from the top) 46 Partisan leader? 47 Tube top 49 Daze 51 Nice kind of workweek 53 G.M., Ford and Chrysler 
56 Setting for an Agatha Christie novel 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A L A W 
S E G A 
-..."++'-1 

~~;.:.,i,:::,P• .::+=::..,;,8~~'!!' -::+:;~EB 
E X Y 
E N A M E N 
N S T I D Y 

SCHAD & FREUDE 
57 Proctor's call 58 Advice for essay 
writers 
61 Dickens creep 
62 Eight producers? 
63 Payroll dept. 
figs. 64 Wiring experts: Abbr. 65 Paris palace 
Down Middles that are 
often too big 2 Ingratiate 3 Has on hand 4 Intuit 
5 When Canada celebrates Thanksgiving: Abbr. 
6 Washington in the Songwriters Hall of Fame 
7 Hawaiian strings? 
8 You might get one before a party 
9 Direct 1 0 Neck of the woods 11 Tony-winning "Frost/Nixon" 
actor 12 Constellation 13 Best Director of 
1992 and 2004 15 Be an utter bore? 23 Beer from upstate New York 24 Like the symmetry of a 
starfish 26 Free of charge 30 Part of some 
chains: Abbr. 31 Walks unsteadily 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE 
~ID11J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FLATA j 
1 
rx () 
©2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
tA£~flJ 
IGUBOREj

rxx I I 
NEW .AJmlje if'hlne App go to: ht1pJJ1r.imljurnljeapp
tGEENER I

IIJ I I 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHAT THE: ME:DICAL. STUDE:NTS CON­SIDE:R£:0 THE: L.E:CTURf: ON BODY PARTS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

AN rI I I I JrI I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: GAMUT SHAKY CALLOW CATNIP Answer: Why he needed a bandage when he got his weekly check -HIS PAY WAS CUT 

T.I.N.D. 
DAN POHLMAN 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The 0 bserver and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, September 24, 2009 
page 24 
SMC SOCCER 
Experienced senior Duffy leads strong defensive squad 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 
While the Belles are still trying to find their groove under sec­ond-year coach Ryan Crabbe, they can turn to a strong leader on defense in senior goalkeeper Patty Duffy. 
Despite injuries that have held her back, Duffy has been able to push through and be successful again this year, her second full year in net for the Belles. 
"The biggest challenge for me personally has been dealing with ankle and foot injuries," Duffy said. "It's kind of hard being a soccer player with those kinds of injuries, but I guess it's a good thing I'm keeper." 
Duffy began this season hav­ing notched 81 saves last season alone in her first full year as a starter. Duffy has already recorded 45 saves for the Belles this season, including a season high of 14 against Transylvania University Sept. 6. 
The Belles have really had to come together as a team to pull out a few hard fought victories. 
"Some overall team goals that we have are to come out focused and stay focused, challenge our­selves to set the tempo of the game," Duffy said. "We need to come out and play Saint Mary's soccer. I think that our impor­tant goal for the season is hold­ing each other and ourselves accountable. If we go out consis­tently for every game and play hard and sacrifice everything for each other, I think we will be very successful." 
The Belles suffered eight one­goal losses last season and are looking to rebound and turn things around this year in close games. 
Heading into the MIAA portion of their schedule the Belles will need to continue to work togeth­er to ensure success. 
"I think the key for us this season, especially the MIAA por­tion of the season, is to hold our teammates and ourselves accountable," Duffy said. "We know each other and the team is closer this year, but we still need to keep working to get to the point where we know for a fact that each and every one of us is going to give it their all for the team. If we come out and honestly do that for every game it will be hard not to find suc­cess." 
The Belles have faced some tough opponents so far this sea­son and have had some strug­gles on offense that have held them back. 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Serving up success 
Irish underclassmen provide strong depth 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
Led by a senior class consid­ered as one of the best recruit­ing classes in the program's 30­year history, Irish fans had a pretty good idea of what to expect heading into the 2009 season. 
While the six seniors have more than lived up to expecta­tions, it is the exceptional per­formance of the underclassmen that have the Irish sitting at 6-4 as they enter Big East play on Friday. 
Although the freshmen have yet to see significant playing time, the sophomores and jun­iors have been more than will­ing to step up and fill the void left behind by last year's class. 
see YOUTH/page 22 


SMC GOLF 

Belles take second at Jainboree 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's took second Wednesday in the second fall MIAA Jamboree hosted by Hope College at Macatawa Legends Country Club. 
The No. 13 Belles shot a combined 322 for the day, just four strokes behind first place Olivet, in their fourth tournament this season. 
Hope came in third for the day with a 335, followed by Trine with 361 and Calvin one shot behind for fifth. 
Alma came out with a 370 with Albion trailing by three strokes for seventh. Kalamazoo placed eighth with 389, and Adrian round-
see SMC/page 22 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Walker eyes lofty season goals 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Irish senior Jake Walker was second to cross the finish line out of 231 competitors at Friday's National Catholic Invitational, only a few seconds behind the race's champion. 
Walker ran the Burke Golf Course's five-mile course in 24:59.1, which wasn't exactly in line with his expectations heading into to the race. 
"I was expecting to finish really high up in the race and possibly win," Walker said. "I was not really that excited with the outcome but I got an idea of what adjustments and improve-
see WALKER/page 22 


Duffy noted that the team has become much closer this season despite their struggles and have found an increased level of com­fort with both them and their coaches that have helped them deal with the tough losses. With many returning players leading the team, the Belles will look to build on their team strength heading into the MIAA portion of their schedule beginning Sept. 30. 
The Belles host the Saint Mary's College Fall Classic this weekend. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

SMC follows victory 
with first home Inatch 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 

After a rough start to the conference season, the Saint Mary's responded strongly after a weeklong break by blanking confer­ence foe Olivet three sets to zero. 
Belles coach Toni Kuschel was excited about the win and its impact on the team. 
"We are very happy with the conference win," she said. "We all feel really good about it." 
Tonight, the Belles look to 
continue that pace as they face off against Manchester. "They are coming of a tough weekend at the Aurora tournament," coach Kuschel said. "This is their first home game so they will be looking for a big win". 
The Belles will need help from their leaders that stepped up in Tuesday's win. Senior Lorna Slupcyznski, junior Andrea Sasgen and freshman Stephanie Bodien each had strong performances against Olivet. Slupcynzski 
see BELLES/ page 22 






