Photo and Graphic Illustration by Ian Gavlick and Andrea Archer 
COMMENTARY 
Irish season now four games long 
We’ve been told 9-3 is not good enough. 
Is 10-2? 
Because that’s where the Irish could be. But it’s going to take the same kind of focus that dragged them back from fourth-quarter deficits earlier this season. 
Because last season, if you’ll remem­ber, Notre Dame had a 5-2 record, then dropped four of its last five and fin­ished the regular sea­son 6-6. That stretch included an overtime loss to Pittsburgh, a four-interception goose egg against Boston College, a game-that-shall-not-be-spoken­of against Syracuse and a beating out behind the woodshed against USC. 
True — the Irish can win some and lose some and be bowl-eligi­ble and go to a bowl at 8-4 and win, but with what this team has shown itself to be capable of, that would be a disappointment. 
It could also be a reality. 
Look at who they face. Navy has had, um, success at Notre Dame Stadium recently. Pittsburgh proved last year how tough it plays (granted, the Panthers lost LeSean McCoy to the Eagles). Connecticut presents the easiest potential win for the Irish but we’ve seen what overlooking a Big East team on senior day can do. Toby Gerhart has 994 yards rushing and 13 touchdowns for Stanford and Andrew Luck has passed well so far this season. On the road, that’s going to challenge the Irish. 
But they’ve been challenged. Last season, I wrote that winning wasn’t necessarily the be-all end-all of the game, that in a blowout win over Washington the Irish needed to find other positives besides the W. I’ve clearly never claimed to be the smartest crayon in the box because this season has shown that winning supercedes everything. The Irish squeaked out five wins in the final minutes. It doesn’t matter that they had defensive lapses or poor offensive execution because they won. 
No one, not the fans or the play­ers or the coaches or the BCS, should care how the Irish got here. They’re 6-2. That’s the important part. They have the potential to win out, go 10-2 and be eligible for a BCS bowl. 
This would give the Irish some­thing they desperately need: suc­cess under Charlie Weis with players he recruited. He orches­trated great wins with Brady Quinn, Jeff Samardzija and Darius Walker running the offense. Then they left and the Irish went 3-9 and 6-6. 
Now Weis has his players run­ning his system. 
Fans and critics heap tons of criticism on Weis’ performance, not all of it undeserved. He’s won one bowl game in five years, he coached the team to 15 losses in 2007-08, the highest two-year loss total in school history, and his team lost to the first eight-loss team (those pesky Orange) in school history. He hasn’t beaten USC in five tries and is 3-11 against opponents ranked higher than the Irish. 


Uninspiring, right? At face value, yes. But that’s not the whole story. The nice thing about the fact that sports follows the what-have-you-done-for-me-late­ly doctrine is that it works both ways. True, 2007 was awful and 2008 failed to live up to expecta­tions. But it’s 2009, the Irish are winning and they’re clearly not the same team as before. 
He’s got a chance this season to burst out from under those stats, to prove to fans and the media that he can coach a team to suc­cess using his players. He’s done it so far this year. It’s that time, his fifth year, when he put all of his players in position and refined his system and defined his role in the coaching staff. 
My hunch says the Irish do it. 

They certainly have the talent. Jimmy Clausen, Kyle Rudolph and Golden Tate can throw and catch against anybody. Robert Hughes’ increased performances enlivened the offense and coun­tered Armando Allen’s speed, and if he gets a head of steam he’ll uproot the defenders in his way. The defensive line’s increased penetration and the emergence of Manti Te’o as a playmaker solidi­fied a defense that was shaky at the start of the season. 
Which brings me back to my point. As Rick Moranis said in Spaceballs, the Irish are at now now. They shouldn’t be worried about then, about what hap­pened, about how they got here. They’ve got four teams to beat to capitalize on the opportunities this season presents, of which there are many: postseason awards, a BCS bowl, vindication of Weis’ recruiting and playcall­ing, erasure of last year’s poor fin­ish. 
But the cliché “clichés art true” is true for a reason, and the one­game-at-a-time approach must still guide the team. The Irish must use what’s worked for them all season to beat Navy. They’re going to need Te’o to break up the option and they’re going to need the defensive line to plug the full­back’s hole. They’re going to need that passing game against a Navy pass defense that ranks 23rd in the nation. 
The Irish season is now four games long. If they focus and play like they know they can, the after-party could be pretty exciting. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Arizona athlete Flowers visits 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
After a blowout victory over Washington State in San Antonio that may have helped Notre Dame’s future recruit­ing in Texas, this weekend the Irish will welcome official visitor Marquis Flowers to South Bend to see the team take on Navy. 
Flowers is an Arizona native that plays both safety and running back for his Millennium High School team. The high school senior piled up 87 tackles and three interceptions on defense in 2008 while rushing for 932 yards and eight touchdowns on offense. 
“Marquis is a tremendous talent, he could play a num­ber of different positions for Notre Dame,” said Mike Frank, a Notre Dame recruit­ing analyst who runs the ESPN-affiliated Web site irishsportsdaily.com. “He makes a ton of plays, has a lot of offers, and seems to really like Notre Dame. I think Notre Dame likes his potential a great deal and you just don’t see this caliber of athlete come along very often.” 
Flowers is also considering USC, Arizona, Arizona State and UCLA. 
“He seems to have a strong interest in Notre Dame,” Frank said. “He was sched­uled to visit [for the USC game] and then rescheduled, and the fact that he’s willing to reschedule and come back means he’s pretty interest-more than 15 major schools ed.” that offered him a scholar-

While the Irish hope to ship, including Texas A&M, impress Flowers Saturday, Oregon, Florida State and they appear to have already Oklahoma. made strides towards future The Irish also recently recruiting in Texas following received good news regard-their 40-14 rout of ing top wide receiver Washington State in San prospect Kyle Prater, who is Antonio last week. Several currently verbally committed high school to USC. The juniors were in number one attendance and receiver in 
looking to “[Marquis Flowers] is many recruit-
learn more ing service 
a tremendous talent,

about Notre rankings, 
Dame and the he could play a Prater is football pro -number of positions returning to gram. South Bend for 
for Notre Dame.” 

“I think a lot an official visit of local players to see Notre enjoyed being Mike Frank Dame take on 
able to check Irish recruiting analyst Connecticut. 
out Notre Dame,” Frank said. “It’s a nice way for Notre Dame to showcase their program, and tell recruits to check them out because they probably don’t know much about them.” 
Notre Dame already heard good news last week shortly before arriving in Texas, receiving a verbal commit­ment from Lone Star state native Toney Hurd Jr. last Friday. 
“Toney’s stock just contin­ues to rise and rise. He’s a very smart kid, extremely intelligent, and I think its starting to come into play and work with his athleticism,” Frank said. “He’s becoming a very good corner and has had a great senior year.” 
Hurd chose the Irish out of The Illinois 
player was 
also on campus for the USC game on an unof­ficial visit. 
“Kyle Prater is a big guy that makes plays,” Frank said. “He uses his body well and has the potential to be a Michael Floyd down the road. He likes a lot about USC but staying close to home could interest him, and his best friend Corey Cooper is also interested in Notre Dame.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. 
E-mail Mike at mike­frank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 

Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 






Heart and soul 
Sergio Brown uses natural speed and personal strength to expand his role 
lighted by 28 tackles, six pass “We race a lot in the neighbor-

By MATT GAMBER 
breakups and a pair of blocked hood to see who’s the fastest,” 
Sports Editor 
punts. Brown said. “I’m still undefeat­“I just had to be patient and ed.” 
His teammates and coaches call wait for my time to play,” Brown That’s not hard to believe, con-him Notre Dame’s best athlete. said. “A lot of special teams, and sidering Scout.com listed his high But just how athletic is senior then my role got bigger last year school 40-yard dash time at a safety Sergio Brown? playing some nickel. Now I’m on blazing 4.4 seconds, the kind of 
He’s been dunking alley-oop the field a lot, and I’m loving it speed that can’t be taught. He’s passes on the basketball court right now.” come a long way from his tum-since early in high school. He says His coaches are loving it, too, as bling days, but he can still flip he’s never lost a foot race in his Brown’s play at safety the past and fly. hometown of Maywood, Ill. two weeks has allowed the Irish “He’s one of the most athletic 
And he can do back flips — in to shuffle its personnel to produce guys on our team,” sophomore full pads after playing a football Notre Dame’s best consecutive defensive lineman Ethan Johnson game in front of 80,000-plus. Or defensive performances of the said. “He can jump through the in a Notre Dame polo shirt, baggy season the past two weeks. roof, and he’s really fast. He can blue jeans and street shoes, as he Brown made his first start at bring so much to the table at the did for The Observer Wednesday. safety for the Irish in their 20-16 next level, too. He’s definitely a 
“Me and my brother were win over Boston College, as Notre special player.” always just goofing around in the Dame bumped junior Harrison house. It really started after the Smith back to the linebacker spot Goof ball hawk movie ‘3 Ninjas’ came out,” where he enjoyed success last Brown’s teammates say he’s a Brown said. “We just started try-season. After the Irish thumped special person as well. His per­ing to flip and stuff outside with Washington State 40-14 last sonality and his relationships mattresses. My mom started get-weekend, Brown is slated to with his teammates have made ting scared, so she said if we’re make his third straight start at his success even more enjoyable going to do all this flipping, we safety — and seventh of the year for the entire Irish squad. might as well learn how to do it overall — Saturday against Navy. “He’s a guy you can’t help but so we won’t hurt ourselves. I’ve “I think he’s earned his way root for,” sophomore linebacker just been flipping since.” into being a full-time player on Steve Filer said. “He’s a great guy. 
Brown’s back flips have only defense,” Irish coach Charlie Weis You can’t help but just cheer for recently become a staple of the said. “So just the fact that it’s him and hope he does his best.” Irish postgame celebration. But taken some time for him to get So far, so good for Brown, who position-wise, he’s been flipping there, but he’s there now, he’s has looked comfortable in his since he arrived at Notre Dame. playing on every down. I think move back to safety alongside 
Until now. that’s where he’s made the most senior captain Kyle McCarthy. He significant progress.” is fifth on the team with 18 solo Path to safety tackles for the season, but per-
A four-star safety recruit out of Flip, Flop ‘n Fly haps his greatest contributions Proviso East H.S., Brown made There’s never been a shortage have come with the emotional 97 special teams appearances in of ability for Brown, who was a spark he has provided a defense 11 games as a freshman in 2006, long jump state qualifier and, as that, at times earlier in the sea-making four tackles in kickoff and a high school junior, returned five son, lacked the confident swagger punt coverage. The next season of his six interceptions for touch-and positive attitude he brings. was much of the same, as he downs. In fact, Brown was show-“You say he’s emotional, but played in nine games and made casing his athleticism long before really, he’s upbeat,” Johnson said. seven tackles but saw limited he suited up at the high school “He’s a good kind of emotional. action in the secondary. level — and on a much different It’s infectious, and he really 

Brown emerged as an impact stage. brings something else to our team one of those heart-and-soul type celebrity spokesmen for “real player out of the nickel defense as He performed with Mr. Ernie’s that’s going to be hard to replace players that people like being people.” The video idea stemmed a junior last season. He made his Flip, Flop ‘n Fly, a Maywood-next year.” around.” from Brown’s comedic perform-first career start in the 2008 sea-based tumbling group, as a grade It seems no one, not even Weis, ance as a presenter at the 2008 son-opener against San Diego school student — times he could-can talk about Brown without a Fun with Splurge OSCARS (Outstanding Student-State and flashed much of the n’t help but laugh about as he chuckle and a smile. Notre Dame students who have Athletes Celebrating potential that had excited the looked back. “He’s a passionate kid,” Weis had a class with Brown might Achievements and Recognition Irish coaching staff in his first two “We did parades and shows said. “He’s fun to be around. He’s know him by something else, Showcase), held annually to high-seasons. Brown made six tackles and all that other stuff,” Brown a goof ball. But I really like being since he asks all his teachers to light the achievements of Notre (one for a loss), broke up two said. “Once I got bigger, it started around Sergio, and so do his call him by the nickname he Dame’s athletic teams. passes and blocked a punt getting a little harder to flip.” teammates. And I think that he’s picked up from a rap song during Brown said Charmelle Green, against the Aztecs to set the tone So he started to use his athletic not selfish. He wants to be his freshman year. senior assistant athletics director for a solid junior season, high-ability in other ways. around the fellas, and he’s just “One of my teachers, it’s hilari-for student-athlete welfare and 
ous,” Brown said. “I’m the only development, approached him football player in there with with an idea for a video that dreads, so every day he’ll look would air at last spring’s OSCARS. around the class [joking] like, ‘Is “They asked if I wanted to do a Splurge here today?’” little commercial with Jack 
The Nelly song by the same Swarbrick, and I was like, OK, name may have faded from mem-sure,” Brown said. “They wanted ory, but the nickname Splurge us to be like the Geico commer­seems to have stuck — though cials, so we set it up and it was some of Brown’s teammates may hilarious, a lot of fun. “ have a new one for him. In the video, Brown yells at the 
“Fake Whoopi Goldberg!” camera, dances with a Notre Johnson yelled at Brown as he Dame blanket draped over his left Wednesday’s media session, back and, of course, does a back no doubt ragging on the safety’s flip — all while Swarbrick talks patented dreadlocks. about Notre Dame’ Monogram 
That’s the kind of relationship Club in a professional office set-Brown has with his teammates — ting. and the fun goes both ways. “They had me do a back flip at 
“One time we were in the train-least 12 times — way more than ing room and Jimmy [Clausen] you all had me do one,” Brown was talking to [former Irish quar-said. terback] Joe Theismann,” Brown Not that it was a problem for said. “I really didn’t know it was Brown, who will likely be in the Joe Theismann at the time, and I north end zone, preparing him-was just standing behind him, self for another back flip after waving and making faces at Saturday’s game as his team-Jimmy while they were talking, mates gather to sing the Alma acting like a fool. Jimmy started Mater. to bust down laughing. We just all “I like to have a lot of fun,” he mess with each other.” said. “I’m serious when the time 
But Brown’s fun isn’t limited to is called, but everything’s always jokes with teammates. Last better when you’re having fun.” spring, he filmed a one-minute And that includes the Irish spot for insidenotredamefoot-defense, especially with Sergio ball.com in which he and Jack Brown. Swarbrick, Notre Dame’s director of athletics, mimicked the popu-Contact Matt Gamber at lar Geico commercials featuring mgamber@nd.edu 





Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 



HEAD T
Record: 6-2 AP: 19 Coaches: 21 BCS: 21 

5th season at 

Irish Offense vs. Midshipmen Defense
Notre Dame 



career record: 
35-23 
at home 
19-12 
against Navy: 
3-1 








The return of Michael Floyd is absolute-
Ready yourselves for frustration, because 
ly huge for this Irish team. With Floyd,
Navy's triple option always causes it. 
Notre Dame can hang with almost every
Quarterback Ricky Dobbs runs the option well 
team in the country just on the strength of
and has an absurd 16 rushing touchdowns this 
their passing attack. Even if he does not
season. Now cue Manti Te'o hitting the gap and 
play considerable time against Navy, the
destroying the pitch man just as he gets the 
game experience will be valuable for
ball because the defensive line has sealed up 
Floyd to be ready against a tough
the fullback's hole and Darius Fleming pres-
Pittsburgh team. The Notre Dame offense
sured Dobbs to force the pitch. That won't hap-

pen every time, but it'll happen enough to secure a win for Notre Dame. Jimmy Clausen has been ridiculous without Michael Floyd. With him back, even as a decoy, the rest of the offense opens up and scores a ton of points on a solid but overmatched Navy defense. Navy will 
control the clock and score, but not nearly enough to win. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Navy 17 

should be able to control the line of scrim­mage and continue to dominate through the air. The run defense is playing very well, and Manti Te’o should have a big game against the triple option attack. Ricky Dobbs will have success at times, 
but the Irish offense will be too much. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 37, Navy 17 


Midshipmen
O HEAD Navy 
Record: 6-3 AP: NR Coaches: NR BCS: NR 
2nd season at Navy
Midshipmen Offense vs. Irish Defense
T


E
A
M
S
C
I
L
V
Y
P
N

career record: 
14-8 
on road: 
5-3 
against ND: 
0-1 

I
V
E
A
Y
O
F
N
SO
P
H
G
R
U
A
C
H
I
N
G

2009 Schedule 
Sept. 5 @OhioSt. —L Sept. 12 Louisiana Tech — W Sept. 19 @ Pittsburgh — L Sept. 26 WesternKentucky—W Oct. 3 Air Force — W Oct. 10 @Rice —W Oct. 17 @SMU —W Oct. 24 Wake Forest — W Oct. 31 Temple — L Nov. 7 @ Notre Dame Nov. 14 Delaware Nov. 28 @ Hawaii Dec. 12 Army 
Navy lost to Temple last week, but that was 

After a break last week in San Antonio, Jimmy 
without its best player, quarterback Ricky Clausen will likely have to play the whole 
Dobbs. Dobbs should be back running the game against the Midshipmen. Notre Dame is 
Midshipmen's classic option attack, which the more talented than Navy, to be sure, but the 
Irish defense shut down for most of last year's option-style offense will keep the game closer 
matchup. The same should happen again, as than it probably should be. The Irish won’t be 
the maligned secondary should get a bit of able to control the clock for nearly 40 minutes 








football as it has all year to maximize its limited possessions, and Charlie Weis said he’d be sure to involve all his weapons, including the newly returned Michael Floyd. As always, Notre Dame is a much bigger, faster, more talented team than Navy, and this year, the Irish will just be too 
much for the Midshipmen. This one won’t be close. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Navy 7 

ready to play. That being said, though, the Midshipmen (or anyone else in the country, for that matter) will have trouble stopping a Notre Dame offense with both Golden Tate and Michael Floyd in the lineup. Robert Hughes could also have another big day against an 
undersized, if opportunistic, Navy defense. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Navy 20 



What is your favorite class? Probably poetry class because I liked that I could write what was on my mind. 
What’s your favorite movie? Con-Air 
What’s your favorite 80s song? What’s that song that goes (sings quietly) ... AC/DC, “Hells Bells.” 
What’s in your burrito at Chipotle? 
Chicken, rice and pinto beans. None of that hot corn stuff. 
What’s your favorite crayon? 
Blue. 
What’s your favorite saying? Keep sleeping — it comes from my old team­mates because I hit so hard, they said you’d better watch out, keep sleeping. 

Floyd returns for battle against Navy 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The doctors said he was healed. Irish coach Charlie Weis gave the go-ahead for star sophomore receiver Michael Floyd to play against Navy. Floyd felt confident and ready to go. 
But there was still one more person whose approval Floyd sought before returning to the field. 
“[Coach Weis] gave his vote, and I gave my vote too,” Floyd said. “And then he asked me to ask my mom if it was OK, and she went down the line asking me all the questions if I was 100 percent and ready to go.” 
After Floyd assured her he was indeed healed from his broken clavicle, the wide receiver was given the green light to play Saturday against the Midshipmen. Weis, Floyd and a certain quarterback were all thrilled at the prospects of the wideout’s return. 
“It wasn’t too much longer when I was already getting texts from number seven,” Weis said, referencing quarter­back Jimmy Clausen. “As happy as number three was, I think number seven might have been just as happy.” 
Floyd had dominated the first two and half games he had played in this season before breaking his clavicle in the sec­ond quarter against Michigan State. 

In the season opener against Nevada, Floyd was tackled only once and ran wild for 189 yards and three touchdowns on four receptions. 
In Ann Arbor Floyd’s success continued, bringing in seven receptions for 131 yards and a score in the close Notre Dame loss to Michigan. 
back there, that balances off your offense.” 
Floyd said he agreed his return would help open up opposing defenses for Tate. 
“I love Golden, he makes spectacular plays. It just takes stress off of him. I think he’s probably just going to keep doing his own thing, making big plays,” Floyd said. “I think we get a little leeway off of each other. Both it’s one on one or double-team and the other guy 


F l o y d ’ s r e t u r n should give o p p o s i n g d e f e n s e s  “Not only will it take pressure off of Jimmy, it will take it off of Kyle, it will take it off  is free. We’re both excited and when they try to double-team us, it leaves inside wide  
nightmares as they try  of Golden.”  receivers open.” Weis said that  
to defend against two  Charlie Weis  while Floyd is com­pletely healed, he  
of the best  Irish coach  will not receive  a  
w  i  d  e  full  workload  
receivers in  against Navy.  

the nation as well as an elite “We have a plan for what tight end. we’re going to do with Michael. 
““I’m very happy to be able He won’t play every play,” Weis to go into those meetings yes-said. “The biggest thing that terday and say, ‘OK, we’ve got he’s going have to have happen Floyd back, what do we want to is get tackled once. He’ll get hit do?’” Weis said. “Your game-in practice some, but I doubt planning on Monday becomes a that we’re going to try it out in whole different element when practice and see how that you’re adding a top-flight play-shoulder feels getting tackled.” er like Michael to the mix.” Even if it isn’t for every 
With Floyd out, junior receiv-down, the Irish are excited to er Golden Tate picked up the have one of the best players in slack despite being the focus of the nation back. numerous double-teams by “It’s great to have one of the opposing defenses. During the best receivers in the nation time of Floyd’s absence, Tate back to help you out,” Tate piled up 743 yards receiving said. “I’m excited for him, I’m and 147 rushing and nine total excited to have him back, and I scores. know he’s been waiting 
“It will certainly take a lot of patiently to get back on the pressure off of Golden,” said field. I’m expecting him to Weis. “Not only will take pres-make plays.” sure off of Jimmy, it will take it off of Kyle, it will take it off of Contact Michael Bryan at Golden. Having a guy like that mbryan@nd.edu 
Dobbs leads potent triple option attack for Midshipmen 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor  “[Navy] coach [Ken Niumatalolo] told me last year to always prepare like I was the  
starter and I did that, so really  
With the triple option offensive  the only thing that has changed  
system that  Navy  runs,  the  is that I really am the starter,”  
quarterback position is slightly  Dobbs said. “I have always pre­ 
different than at other schools.  pared like I was the starter. I  
While Notre Dame quarter- just have to make sure I don’t  
back  Jimmy  Clausen  has  put a lot of pressure on myself,  
attempted 257 passes so far this  because doing so will only drive  
season, the man under center  me into the dirt and I will try to  
for  the  become  some- 
M i d s h i p m e n ,  body that I’m  
junior Ricky Dobbs, has thrown only 66.  “If I could put Ricky in a bubble I would do it.  not.” Last season, Navy had three  
Dobbs has, how­ever, rushed for 595 yards and an eye-popping  We are not as deep at that position as we have been in the past.”  l e g i t i m a t e options at quar­terback in Dobbs, Bryant  
16 touchdowns  and Kaheaku­ 
on the season. “As much as I would love to  Ken Niumatalolo Navy coach  Enhada. This year, though, Dobbs and  
pass the ball on  s o p h o m o r e  
every  down,  I  Kriss  Proctor  
know the school that I came to  are the only non-freshmen on  
features the option,” Dobbs said  the Midshipmen roster.  
at Navy’s pre-season media day.  “If I could put Ricky in a bub­ 
“We worked really hard on our  ble I would do it,” Niumatalolo  
own this summer getting the  said at Navy’s pre-season media  
option down so we can continue  day. “We are not as deep at that  
the tradition of winning the  Observer File Photoposition as we have been in the  
rushing title.”  Navy quarterback Ricky Dobbs scrambles for a big gain in Baltimore in 2008. Dobbs has 16 TDs past. We have some young guys  
Last season, Dobbs played in  we are very excited about.  and leads a potent ground attack that is third in the nation in rushing. I am  
eight of Navy’s 13 games, rush- very excited about Kriss Proctor,  
ing for 495 yards and eight  but he is a young quarterback  time to beat the Mustangs, and  in  full.  Even  though  Dobbs  and could give himself the high- 
touchdowns on only 106 carri­ and he has  a  ways to go to  only managed 13 points in a win  played in limited action against  light of his career with a good  
ers, good for a 4.7 yards per  become the starter.”  over  Wake  Forest  the  next  the  Owls,  he  wasn’t  at  full  performance, or  even a  win,  
carry average.  Niutmatalolo’s worst fears  week. Navy didn’t throw a single  strength and Navy lost 27-24 to  against the Irish in Notre Dame  
With the graduation of Jarod  came true, though, when Dobbs  pass  against  the  Demon  drop its record to 6-3 on the  Stadium.  
Bryant and Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku­ injured his right knee against  Deacons.  season.  
Enhada, Dobbs entered this sea- Southern Methodist on Oct. 17.  Against Temple on Oct. 31, the  Dobbs is back to full strength  Contact Sam Werner at  
son as the unquestioned starter.  The Midshipmen needed over- impact of Dobbs’ injury was felt  for this week’s game, though,  swerner@nd.edu  




