
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Holy Cross students forced into trunk of car 
Victims say four men approached them with a gun; Poorman says off-campus safety a priority for University 
10:40 p.m. Thursday when a told police the men hit them the car and heard noises com­working with local police to By MADELINE BUCKLEY man approached them with a while driving the car. One stu­ing from the car. He discovered address the issue of off-campus News Editor gun and demanded money. dent said he was hit in the ear the students stuffed in the crime. 
The students gave the man with a gun and punched in the trunk. "We have experienced crime 
Two Holy Cross College stu­their wallets, cell phone and face. The students reported the Police said the incident near the campus previously, dents were robbed and forced car keys. Two or three other men eventually forced them in ended just after midnight. but in these most recent cases to ride in the trunk of their car male suspects approached the the trunk. Police said they currently the perpetrators have been for at least an hour late group, asked for more money Police said an officer stopped have no suspects. bolder than in the past," he Thursday night, according to a and then forced the students the vehicle on McKinley Road University Vice President for said in the e-mail. "As with police report. into the back of the vehicle. because the driver failed to Student Affairs Fr. Mark other crimes, robbers some­
Police said the two male stu­The students reported that turn off the car's high beams, Poorman acknowledged times approach students dents had exited their car in a the men forced them to drive and the suspects fled the vehi­Thursday's robbery in an e­because they believe them to parking lot near the 800 block around to several local banks cle. mail to the student body Friday of Notre Dame Ave. about to withdraw cash. The students The officer then approached and said the University is see TRUNK/page 3 

By BRIAN METZ News Writer 
Notre Dame students let out a collective sigh of relief as the final horn sounded in Saturday's 24-21 victory at Purdue's Ross-Ade Stadium. 
Quarterback Jimmy Clausen and the Irish sealed the win in the final seconds, sending the in-state rival Boilermakers home unhappy. 
Without the team's leading rusher Armando Allen and leading receiver Michael Floyd in the line-up, and with Clausen battling injury as well, the Irish needed to step it up, senior Jeff Skorup said. 
"Jimmy was obviously hurt­ing, but he came through when 



Purdue win a relief for game spectators 
called upon," Skorup said. "And even though [backup quarter­back Dayne] Crist wasn't asked to do much, he played mistake­free football and did his job." 
Senior Amy Holt was impressed by Notre Dame's quarterback tandem. 
''I'm proud of Jimmy's leader­ship, and Dayne gave good effort when we needed him." 
Some students say they were most impressed with Clausen's coolheaded leadership with the game on the line. 
"Despite his injury, Jimmy came through in the end, and that's what a good quarterback has to do," Skorup said. 
Though limited by injury offensively, the Irish had an 
see GAME/page 6 

Cadets learn leadership skills during vveekend at Fort Custer 
By ROBERT SINGER Assistant News Editor 
Army ROTC cadets from Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's College returned Sunday afternoon after a weekend-long training exercise at Fort Custer near Battle Creek, Mich., where they honed their skills in naviga­tion, combat and leadership, sen­ior cadet Scott Vitter said. 
Daytime and nighttime land navigation, squad training exer­cises and leader reaction courses comprised the bulk of the week­end. which began for the 92 cadets at noon on Friday, Vitter said. 
In the "n~al army," junior cadet Geralyn Janke said, GPS and other systems aid land naviga­tion, but to evaluate ROTC cadets and to prepare them for techno!­
ogy failures, they were given nothing but grid coordinates, a map, compass and protractor over the weekend to locate their target -an orange and white box somewhere in the woods. 
Janke also said she participat­ed in a leader reaction course. This exercise, according to Vitter, "tests a squad leader's ability to formulate a plan on the spot and formulate it effectively with the peers in his squad. 
"The one I led today was a sim­ulated mine field," Janke said. "We had two ammo boxes and two long poles to get across this mine field, and none of the cadets could touch the gravel ground. We had to get all the cadets and all the equipment to the other side." 
Senior cadet Marina Rodriguez explained the squad training exercises. 
"The juniors take turns being the leader for the mission. They're leading a mission that the squad must execute, then they make a plan to get them from the starting point to the end point," she said. "The missions include a general attack, an ambush, attacking a fortified position, reacting to contact." 
Rodriguez also discussed how the Army prepares its cadets for carrying out missions in cultures that may seem unfamiliar. 
"We try and have our enemy forces try to mimic the culture of what the current combat situa­tion is in Iraq and Afghanistan," she said. 
According to Rodriguez, "respecting their culture, and at the same time, doing it in a way that doesn't affect the mission" 
see ROTC/ page 6 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Runners participate in Domer Run page 3 • Guitar Hero 5 review page 13 • Men's soccer page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 28, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Worried? Hardly. 
I have the conversation down to a science. "So, what do you want do you want to do after graduation?" "Good question," I answer, with a lighthearted laugh. "No ideas? What are you interested 
. ?"
Ill. 
This is when I launch into a rehearsed, "Well, sure, I've thought about it," and a long "there are quite a few things I'm interested in" spiel that usually gets a response like "Oh, I see. Well, you have some time to figure it out." 
Which is when I interject, "Sure ... but only a few months!" 
By all counts -a down economy, looming application deadlines, daunting Career Fairs -I should be worried, right? 
I know some are, or are getting to that point. But on the contrary, I'm not worried at all. 
It's interesting-at exactly the point when I'm most confused and should be most concerned about where my life goes after graduation, I'm actually quite at peace with the ambiguity. 
Maybe it's because I still harbor idealistic "I can save the world" notions that make me feel like I can do it all. Or because I'm not con­stricted by a need to work in one particular industry, to study a partic­ular subject or to take one particular path. Or maybe I just haven't thought about it much. 
No. Not true, I've thought about it a lot. And become even more con­fused. 
Whatever the case, I'm not wor­ried. But I'll tell you what I am wor­ried about. 
I'm worried about the rest of the Irish football season. I'm worried about the number of times I'm going to get to go to the Backer this year. I'm worried that working at The Observer is going to eat up any rem­nants of free time I have. 
So maybe it's just that I'm so dis­tracted by the present that I can't yet worry about things "so far off." 
It's probably a combination of these things -a youthful idealism that I can do anything, a freedom from any definite path and the dis­traction of the moment -that keeps me from fretting about a "10 year plan" or the like. 
I'm just hoping that I can hold onto all of these things, because my time here is far too short to spend what's left worrying over what comes next. So far things have turned out remarkably well and I have enough faith to believe that things will turn out for the better in the end. 
"You'll figure it out sooner or later," is one of the usual ends to that conversation I was talking about. 
"Exactly," I conclude, with an hon­est smile. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE PLANETEER? 





Greg Prokop  Nick Tammerine  Danie Brink  Ellie Hall  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  junior  
Carroll  Carroll  Holy Cross Hall  Welsh Family  
"The water one.  "Wheeler. "  ''I'm gonna say  "Linka. She had  
She's the most  Heart.,,  the power to  
important.,,  control air!"  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Pilot stalked ex-girlfriend with low-flying plane 
CONCORD, Calif. -Police have arrested a California pilot who they say stalked his ex-girlfriend by repeatedly flying his plane low over her house. 
Concord police Sgt. Tiffiny Leftwich says Tom 1-Iuey made several low passes over a residential neighborhood Wednesday evening. 
A dozen residents called police to complain. Huey was arrested shortly after landing the Beech single-engine air­craft. 
Leftwich says police have been investigating reports of a low-flying plane in the area for more than a year. 
Huey's girlfriend tiled for a restraining order last year, but he was not served until Wednesday afternoon. 
Italian police sieze mafia boss' pet crocodile 
HOME -Here's another of the Mafia's trademark offers­you-can't-refuse: pay or be eaten by a crocodile. 
Italy's anti-Mafia police unit said Wednesday it has seized a crocodile used by an alleged Naples mob boss to intimidate local businessmen from whom he demanded protection money. 
Officers searching for weapons in the man's home outside the southern Italian city last week found the croc­odile living on his terrace, said police official Sergio Di Mauro. 
The crocodile, weighing 40 kilograms (88 pounds) and 
1.7 meters (5.6 feet) long, was fed a diet of live rabbits and mice, DiMauro said. 
He said the suspect, an alleged boss in the Naples­based Camorra crime syndi­cate, used to invite extortion victims to his home and threaten to set the animal on them if they didn't pay or grant him favors. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:::c 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 




0,,,,,,, 
0,,,,,,,
...I 
,,,,,,1
II( 
't'l't' 
(,) 0 

HIGH 59 HIGH 50 HIGH 54 HIGH 59
...I LOW 49 LOW 49 LOW 45 LOW 38 IN BRIEF 
A lecture, "City by Design: A Vision for Sustainability," will be held today in 104 Bond Hall, from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 
p.m. Harriet Tregoning, Director of the Washington, 
D.C. Office of Planning, will be lecturing on her work to improve Washington, D.C. through beautification proj­ects. 
A presentation and question and answer session, "Cheech Marin: An Interpretation of a Culture through Chicano Art," will be held Sept. 30 at the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 p.m. This is a free but ticketed event, with tickets available at 6:30 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center the day of the event or for students with a valid ID at MSPS, 210 LaFortune. 
A film, "The Man Who Would Be Polka King," (2009) will be shown Oct. 1 at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 6:30 
p.m. This is a free but ticketed event. Filmmaker Joshua Brown, a Notre Dame gradu­ate, will be present. 
A lecture, "Images That Matter: The U.S. as Seen through Latin American Eyes," will be held Oct. 3 at the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum of Art at 12 p.m. Thomas F. Anderson, associate professor in the Department of Homance Languages and Literature will lecture. This lecture is a part of the "Saturday Scholars Series." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 




0,,,,,,, 
I I I I I I I 

HIGH 63 HIGH 66 LOW 44 LOW 48 
Atlanta 80 I 53 Boston 75 I 55 Chicago 62 I 47 Denver 70 I 49 Houston 92 I 70 Los Angeles 81 I 62 Minneapolis 54 I 40 New York 76154 Philadelphia 76154 Phoenix 106178 Seattle 68151 St. Louis 67146 Tampa 91 176 Washington 78155 
----------------------. 
Monday, September 28, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Domer Run benefits ovarian cancer research 
registration fees and donations cause and help raise aware­By CARLY LANDON 
will be donated to the cause. ness. 
News Writer 
"We are here because we just "It was the first time I've ever 
Members of the Notre Dame, want to help raise money for done any organized run or race, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross cancer, specifically types affect­but it wasn't difficult just communities ran and walked in ing women because it's a good because the atmosphere was so the 26th Annual Domer Hun on cause, and if you're going to good and it was important for Saturday to benefit Ovarian work out it might as well be for me to participate because my Cancer awareness and educa­charity," sophomore Kristin best friend's mom just got diag­tion. Mannion said. nosed with ovarian cancer," 
The run, which is held each The course took runners senior Jennie Hiatt said. year on an away game week­through campus sights such as After completing the run or end, started at 9 Main Circle walk, participants were given a 
a.m. at Legends, and Saint complimentary pancake break­
"It is important for us
and featured Mary's Lake. fast, courtesy of Legends, and both a 3-mile as women to support "The first Domer RunT-shirts. and 6-mile run, the cause, and also we two and a half As an added incentive for stu­as well as a 2-miles were fine dents to participate, a pizza

really want to show
mile fun walk. but then we hit party and hall points will be 
Over 500 par­our Hall spirit." the hill nell,r given to the hall with the high­ticipants showed the Grotto up est representation. up to Legends on to Main ''I'm really excited for the
Ali Unger

Saturday to run Building so I race because our hall, Howard, 
sophomore

or walk in the kept waiting has a bunch of girls running Domer Run, for the second together," sophomore Ali Unger which is sponsored by wind to catch on. It was a good said. "It is important for us as RecSports and the Alumni run still," junior Michael women to support the cause, Association, RecSports McDonnell said. "I survived the and also we really want to show Coordinator of Special Events 3-mile Domer Run." our Hall spirit." and Family Programs Tim Before the run, participants Novak said. were eager to begin in order to Contact Carly Landon at 
The money raised from the show their support for the clandonl@nd.edu 

Study Abroad in Perth, Australia 
Information Meeting Wednesday, September 30, 2009 5:30PM 140 DeBartolo Hall 

Trunk 
continued from page 1 
be easy targets, and they will choose times and locations they think students will be walking or perhaps intoxicat­ed." 
Poorman urged students to be aware of their surroundings and take precautions when walking off campus. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said there has not nec­essarily been more crime this year, but the means of commit­ting crimes have been more aggressive. 
"It is the use of guns that may not have been the case in the past," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/--ois 
r-------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 28, 2009 
SMC visits Wabash for service 

Students from the single-sex colleges get to know each other 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students vis­ited Wabash College for a day of community service, football and Ben Folds on Saturday. 
The first activity for the 37 Saint Mary's participants was the unexpected cost of football tickets. One of Wabash's fraternities, Beta Theta Pi covered the cost of the tickets for the Saint Mary's group, Hoffman said. 

Students had free time to spend with each other before attending the Ben 
and Wabash students was community 

"Overall, the
service. 

The students organizations cleaned a local appreciated our museum, helped 
help, and it enabled 
landscape at the Family Crisis the students to get 
Shelter, offered to know each other 
assistance at 

better."
the department and helped care for animals at Jenny Hoffman the Humane presidentSociety. 
Student Government
Student 


Association
Government Association President Jenny Hoffman said community service was a good way to start the day. 
"Overall, the organiza­tions appreciated our help, and it enabled the students to get to know each other better," Hoffman said. 
Junior Chelsea Mitchell's favorite part of the trip was the community service. 
"I volunteered at the Humane Society and washed the most precious dogs," Mitchell said. 
After lunch, Saint Mary's students attended the Wabash Homecoming Football game, which Wabash won. 
The only glitch for the day Folds concert. 
"At first it was awkward, kind of like those dances that you see in movies where the girls were on one side then the boys on the other." Mitchell said, "But within a couple min­utes we all started talk­ing. They were such gentlemen." 

Hoffman and her brother, Wabash senior Will Hoffman, jointly came up with the idea for a mutual meeting of the single-sex colleges. 
"Will and I have always had a great time when we've visited each other at our respective schools, so this event seemed like a no­brainer," Hoffman said. "Both schools appreciate the unique value of a single sex education, so Saturday's event was the next logical step in creating dialogue between Wabash and Saint Mary's." 
The Hoffman siblings spent three weeks planning 
the event. 
"It took us a week to get approval from our respec­tive schools, and we had to finalize our budget," Hoffman said. "Overall, Saturday's event was an easy event to plan, and I think the Saint Mary's women enjoyed them­selves." 
Slavin enjoyed herself, even though she did not attend the concert as she had planned. 
"Honestly, I signed up because I wanted to see Ben Folds," sophomore Margaret Slavin said. "But that never happened. I had such a blast anyway." 
Watching Saint Mary's women meet new people and be treated with respect by the Wabash men was gratifying for Hoffman. 
"I was happy to see them enjoying Wabash as much as I have d uring my college tenure," Hoffman said. "Our campus environments are extremely similar, and our schools have much to gain and learn from each other." 
The event was such a suc­cess for both colleges that it may become a new tradi­tion. 
"I am confident that this event was the start of a beneficial and mutually respected friendship between the two schools," Hoffman said. "My hope is to make this an annual event; perhaps Wabash could reciprocate and visit our campus in the spring." 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Lecture focuses on spirituali~ medicine 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Spirituality is a term that is broadly used, yet difficult to define and is increasingly becoming of importance in the medical com­munity, according to Dr. Philip Sheldrake of the Univer-sity of Wales and Dr. Harold Koenig of Duke University Medical Center. 
Sheldrake and Koenig spoke Friday at Saint Mary's College on the topic of spirituality. 
Sheldrake focused on the nature of spirituality while Koenig spoke of spirituality's importance in modern medicine. 
Sheldrake said the word spiritu­ality is a defining one of our mod­ern era because it is so commonly used. He said it is beginning to contrast with religion. 
"Spirituality is a better fit to our contemporary era," Sheldrake said. "All of us can have a spiritu­ality. It's personalized and it's democratic." 
Spirituality is tough to define, he said, but humans have a sense of what it's about. Sheldrake brought up what he called "family resem­blances" that linked different types of spirituality. 
Sheldrake said spirituality is holistic, and involves a quest for the sacred. Spirituality is a search for meaning and has something to do with finding identity. It also involves the integration of a whole life and expresses the develop­ment of life beyond the physical. 
"We are vision-creating beings, not just tool-creating animals," Sheldrake said. "We are driven by goals that are more than physical satisfaction or mental suprema­cy." 
Sheldrake concluded his portion of the lecture by describing three questions of meaning that pertain to the relation between the med­ical community and spiritual. 
He said humans question why they are in this world, who they really are and how they can become more than they are. States of unhealthiness occurs when problems related to these questions arise, Sheldrake said. 
Koenig noted the relation between religious beliefs and the transcendent and contrasted reli­gion and spirituality. 
"Spirituality is broader, more popular and harder to define," he said. "Individuals define it for themselves. It's free from many rules, regulations and responsibil­ities associated with religion." 
Koenig said some theorize that the belief in God leads to positive mental health and consequently results in better physical health. 
He said such qualities as for­giveness, altruism and grateful­ness are related to the link between good mental and physi­cal health. He said though these traits do not compose spirituality itself, they are of importance. 
"Positive emotions are not spiri­tuality itself but consequences of a spiritual life," Koenig said. 
Koenig urged the modern med­ical community to begin to inte­grate spirituality into their prac­tices, noting the importance of practitioners being knowledgeable of their patients' spiritual history. 
"Many patients are religious and would like it addressed in health care," he said. "Religion influences support and care in the community." 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstrykel@nd.edu 

Thomas F. Juliano, Ph.DOutreach Team LoaderNSF Graduate Research FellowshipOperations Center  
CraatinU aCIIDpatitiva Application for tha NSF Graduata Rasaarch Fallowship  
Tuesday, Spptamber 28 2008 1:30-3:00 pm MciBIIIa Haft Room 100 for mora Information: www.uraduatoschool.nd.adu  




PLS professor receives 2010 astronomy prize 
Special to The Observer 
Michael J. Crowe, Reverend John 
J. Cavanaugh Professor Emeritus in the Humanities in the Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) at the University of Notre Dame, will receive the 2010 LeRoy E. Doggett Prize for Historical Astronomy from the American Astronomical Society (AAS). 
The Doggett Prize is awarded biennially to an individual "whose long-term efforts and lifetime achievements have had significant impact on the field of the history of astronomy." 
Crowe will receive the award and deliver a plenary address at the 2010 meeting of the AAS in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 4, 2010. 
Crowe, a 1958 Notre Dame alumnus who earned bachelor's degrees both in the PLS and in sci­ence, earned a doctoral degree in the history of science from the University of Wisconsin in 1965. 

In addition to having taught for nearly half a century at Notre Dame, where he has chaired the PLS and was founding chair of the graduate program in the history and philosophy of science, Crowe is the author of "Theories of the World from Antiquity to the Copernican Revolution," "Modern Theories of the Universe from Herschel to Hubble," and "Mechanics: From Aristotle to Einstein," all of which have become texts widely used in college courses on the history of science. 
He also is the author of "A History of Vector Analysis" and "The Extraterrestrial life Debate, 1750-1900: The Idea of a Plurality of Worlds from Kant to Lowell," which the AAS describes as a "magisterial and ambitious work" which has "opened up a new and rich field for scholarship and made the history of beliefs in alien life a legitimate field for discussion. It is an indispensable resource that is unlikely to be surpassed for a long time to come." Crowe's most recent book, "The Extraterrestrial Life Debate: Antiquity to 1915," was published last year by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
Praising Crowe as "a cultivator of scholars as well as scholarship" and citing his role in establishing the biennial Notre Dame Workshops for the History of Astronomy, the AA.'i said that the workshops "have become the pre­mier gathering of historians of astronomy and done much to establish a sense of community among them. Crowe created a space in which scholars of all ages and backgrounds could rub shoul­ders and share in convivial discus­sions of history-of-astronomy topic.<> without regard to seniority or hier­archy. Indeed, many historians in the field have attributed their suc­cessful launch to the welcome, encouragement, and mutual sup­port that they first received at one of these forums." 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 28, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pope urges Christian heritage 
BRNO, Czech Republic -Pope Benedict XVI said Sunday that all of Europe -and not only this ex-communist country ­must acknowledge its Christian heritage as it copes with rising immigration from other cultures and religions. 
The second day of Benedict's pilgrimage to this highly secular country was marked by a joyous open-air Mass that drew tens of thousands of pilgrims and a sober mes­sage for the entire continent. 
"History has demonstrated the absurdi­ties to which man descends when he excludes God from the horizon of his choices and actions," Benedict said. 
Church organizers estimated that 120,000 people packed a field beside an airport in the southern city of Brno for what was expected to be the biggest turnout of his trip. 
Deadline set on embassy stand-off 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras -Honduras' interim government gave Brazil a 10-day ultimatum on Sunday to decide what to do with ousted President Manuel Zelaya, who took refuge in the Brazilian Embassy after sneaking back into this Central American nation. 
A spokesman for interim President Roberto Micheletti warned Brazilian authorities to "immediately take measures to ensure that Mr. Zelaya stops using the protection offered by the diplomatic mis­sion to instigate violence in Honduras." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Conservative columnist dies 
NEW YOHK -William Safrre, the conser­vative columnist and word warrior who feared no politician or corner of the English language. died Sunday at age 79. 
The Pulitzer Prize winner died at a hospice in Hockville, Md. His assistant Rosemary Shields said he had been diagnosed with cancer, but she declined to say when he was diagnosed or what type of cancer he had. 
Satire spent more than 30 years writing on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times. In his "On Language" column in The New York Times Magazine and more than a dozen books, Satire traced the origins of words and everyday phrases such as "straw man," "under the bus" and "the proof is in the pud­ding." 
Students suspended for hazing 
LEWISTON, N.Y. -A western New York high school has been roiled by a hazing ritu­al that entailed hurling raw meat at new players on the girls' varsity soccer team. 
Schools Superintendent Chris Roser said Friday 1 0 Lewiston-Porter High School stu­dents were suspended for three to five days because of the Labor Day weekend incident. 
He says administrators learned this week about the episode, which also involved put­ting eggs and flour in three or four new play­ers' hair. No one was hurt, but Moser says officials won't accept any "behavior that would demean another student." 
He didn't identify the students involved. 
Lewiston Police Chief Christopher Salada says investigators are looking into the inci­dent. Lewiston is about 25 miles north of Buffalo. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Woman appeals divorce denial 
INDIANAPOLIS -An attorney for an Indiana woman who entered into a same-sex marriage in Canada says she plans to appeal a court's refusal to grant the couple a divorce. 
A Marion Superior Court judge earlier this month dismissed the couple's request for divorce, ruling that state law doesn't give courts the authority to dissolve same-sex marriages. Same-sex marriages are illegal in Indiana. 
Larissa Chism and Tara Ranzy lived in Pennsylvania at the time of their 2005 mar­riage but had since moved to South Bend. 
Calif. GOP looks to 2010 races 
Republicans host convention to search for governor, U.S. Senate candidates 
Associated Press 
INDIAN WELLS, California Republicans spent much of their week­end convention soul-search­ing over the battered party's future and debating a plan of attack for 2010, when they hope to capitalize on anti-tax protests and grow­ing national conservative anger over President Barack Obama's health care proposals. 
Most of the attention dur­ing their three-day conven­tion at a resort near Palm Springs was on the three GOP gubernatorial candi­dates, former eBay chief executive Meg Whitman, state Insurance Commissioner Steve Poizner and former five-term con­gressman Tom Campbell. 
They sought to contrast their Hepublican credentials with somber messages that contrasted with the flashier tenure of the man they're hoping to succeed, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, whose term ends in 2011. 

The moderate GOP gover­nor has never been well­liked among the party stal­warts who dominate such conventions. Schwarzenegger did little to repair that relationship dur­ing a brief address Friday night, particularly when he mentioned the landmark global warming law he to the center, that is Senate seat next year also executive, gave the party signed in 2006. wrong," he said to loud gained momentum this $250,000 for voter registra­
Many Republicans oppose cheers. weekend after Carly tion efforts before the con­the law to curb greenhouse Campbell and Whitman Fiorina, the former Hewlett­vention. She spent much of gas emissions because they have both proposed massive Packard chief executive, her weekend trying to redi­say it will be too costly for spending cuts to bring announced she is exploring rect attention from her businesses. California's budget in line, a run. spotty voting record. 
In a jab against although Whitman has so Her entrance in the con­Her speech Saturday did Schwarzenegger and other far declined to say where test pits a socially conserva­not touch on questions that moderates, a punchy she would fmd the $15 bil­tive state lawmaker, have surrounded the cam­Poizner on Saturday night lion in cuts she proposed. Assemblyman Chuck paign for days, after The urged delegates not to let Poizner is pushing a pro­DeVore, against a former Sacramento Bee reported outsiders sway the direction posal to lower nearly all the CEO whose views are barely there was no evidence she of the party. state's taxes, but has been known to GOP voters in the had ever registered to vote 
"Don't let people come in unable to say how much state. DeVore was sched­before 2002 and she had here and tell you that we that would cost the state or uled to address delegates not registered as a need to rebrand the how much he hopes to gen­Sunday. Fiorina, who is bat­Republican until 2007. Republican party. Don't let erate through the increased tling breast cancer, declined Whitman refused to anyone come in here and growth he says that would to attend this weekend's answer repeated questions tell you we need to reposi­spur. gathering because she is in from reporters about her tion the Republican party. Meanwhile, the the final stages of treat­voting record, including When people come in here Republican race to chal­ment, her campaign said. why she didn't vote and and tell you we need to lenge liberal stalwart Whitman, a billionaire when she first registered as move the Republican party Barbara Boxer for her U.S. and fellow Silicon Valley a Republican. 




PORTUGAL 

Socialistsretain powerinPortugal elections 
Associated Press seats in Parliament. The conserva­tating private investment. They 
tive Popular Party polled 10.5 per­rejected a stimulus package of state 
LISBON -The center-left Socialist cent, while the more radical socialist investment, saying public works will Party retained power in Portuguese Left Bloc had almost 10 percent, and saddle future generations with debt. elections Sunday, despite the coun­the Communist/Green coalition Conceding defeat, Social Democrat try's highest jobless rate in 20 years. almost 8 percent. Eleven fringe par­leader Manuela Ferreira Leite said 
"We have once more been chosen ties appeared to win too few votes to her party would continue to oppose to govern Portugal," Prime Minister earn seats in Parliament. The the Socialist spending plan in the Jose Socrates, the Socialist leader, turnout was 60.5 percent. single-chamber Parliament. said. "This is a clear and extraordi­Socrates has pledged big-ticket "The Social Democratic Party won't nary victory." public works projects to stimulate keep quiet nor will it be intimidat­
With over 99 percent of votes growth amid forecasts the economy ed," she said. counted, the incumbent Socialists will contract by as much as 4 percent Socrates has blamed Portugal's had 36.5 percent compared with 29 this year. Some 500,000 people -economic woes on the global melt­percent for the center-right Social just over 9 percent of the work force down, and vowed to stick with a Democratic Party, the main opposi­-are unemployed. modernizing social and economic tion party. The Social Democrats proposed reform program that has antago­
Three smaller parties also secured fighting the economic crisis by facili-nized many, especially trade unions. 
r----------­
page 6 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 28, 2009 
Students recognize bannedbooksweek 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 

Notre Dame participated for the first time in Banned Books Week, which begins today, with a Banned Book Read Out Thursday, Liz Martinez, organ­izer of the Read Out and Notre Dame sociology graduate stu­dent, said. 
"This is the first one at Notre Dame, but it's been going on for 27 years," Martinez said. 
The event, started by the American Library Association in 1982, was near the reflecting pool in front of the library. 
Martinez said a personal motivation and her in-depth study of the sociology of the First Amendment helped her in creating the event. 
"The freedom of expression is the foundation for everything else that we do, from politics to the media to education," Martinez said. 
Martinez said she wanted to call attention to the fact that people take freedom of expres­sion for granted. 
"The main effort behind ban­ning books is to protect chil­dren," Martinez said. "Everyone respects that. But they should­n't limit other people's choices." 
Doug Archer, Notre Dame Reference and Peace Studies librarian and past Chair of the American Library Association's Intellectual Freedom Committee, also helped bring the event together. 
"This Banned Books Read Out is a chance to celebrate the freedom to read -an essential corollary of the First 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 

was the goal of role-playing exercises that teamed ROTC cadets up with an "ally" from another culture to accomplish an objective. 
"A lot of the times, we'd have to link up with a person from a made-up culture," she said. 
"They'd have to link up with that person and get that person to work with them." 
Upper and low­erclassmen have different respon­sibilities as Army ROTC cadets, Vitter said. 
"For the younger cadets, it was a time where they were learning and per­

"It's made me more confident and taught me more about myself and how to work as a team." 
Ned Flynn junior Holy Cross College 
fecting their skills at things like land navigation and other practi­cal skills like movement during a squad training exercise, which we call STX," he said. "It was a time for them to learn, improve and perfect their practical knowl­edge." 
As Army ROTC cadets progress through the program, they are granted additional leadership responsibilities at the field train-Amendment rights of free speech and a free press," Archer said. "As a librarian, the freedom to read is one of my core values." 
Archer said Banned Books Week is important to keep peo­ple aware of the situation of banning books. 
"Many people are unaware of how frequently books are chal­lenged and of the wide variety of reasons for those chal­lenges," Archer said. "[Banned Books Week) shines a light on the struggle to keep books on the shelves and available for people to read -or not read ­as they choose." 
Martinez said that other places, like bookstores, libraries and the McCormick Tribune Freedom Museum in Chicago among others, partici­pate as well. 
"All it takes to have a BBW read out is at least one interest­ed person to start the ball rolling," Archer said. "They are held in libraries and bookstores in hundreds of locations around the U.S." 
The books read at the Read Out by students were chosen off of two lists-the 10 most chal­lenged books in 2008 and the 100 most challenged books of all time, Martinez said. 
Books read included excerpts from the "Harry Potter" series, "1984" and "The Catcher in the Rye." 
Banned Books Week happens all across the country on the last week of September, Martinez said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
ing exercise each year, Vitter said. 
"The difference is night and day, as a soon-to-be-commis­sioned officer and as a freshman, sophomore and junior. The difl'er­ence between execution and planning is enormous. You gain an appreciation for the logistical problems for coordinating a weekend for 92 cadets two hours away," he said. "You don't get to play as much, you don't get to 
shoot people ­it's much more hands off." 
For junior cadets, according to Holy Cross jun­ior Ned Flynn, the training exercise will go a long way toward preparing them for a Leader Development and Assessment Course next sum­mer. 
"It's made me 

more confident and taught me more about myself and how to work as a team," he said. 
Upon graduation, cadets are commissioned as second lieu­tenants in the U.S. Army. 
Army ROTC's training exercise is held twice each year in the fall and spring. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

College hosts Alzhein1er's vvalk 
Group aims to raise $20,000; some 125 people participate 
By SARAH GUNN News Writer 
The Indiana Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association held the one-mile walk on the College's campus Sunday. 
Across the United States, 72 chapters of the Alzheimer's Association put on 'Memory Walks' to raise money aware­ness for the disease. 
The Indiana chapter hosts 12 'Memory Walks' throughout the state each year with a goal of raising $1.1 million statewide. 
For Sunday's event, the goal was to raise $20,000. 
Michael Sullivan of the Indiana Chapter said the funds were "very close to the goal, right around $20,000," but a final tally would not be avail­able for a few days until the last minute donations collected at the walk were counted. 
The walks raise money through teams that are nor­mally groups of families or cor­porations directly affected by the disease. Many corpora­tions are health professionals, like yesterday's second place award winner, Ironwood Health and Rehabilitation Center. 
"Families will often create a team to support grandma, because she has the disease. Or someone like a husband whose wife gets the disease and he gets angry and wants to do something about it," Sullivan said. "These people are personally afl"ected by the disease and they are motivated to gain support, so they get people they know to form a team. The team is either sup­ported by members who walk, or donations." 
Donations are allocated to educational efforts, research and advocacy for Alzheimer's Disease. These efforts are greatly supported by the Memory Walks, as their funds account for 50 percent of the Association's budget. 
The South Bend Chapter's first walk attracted about 125. The teams walked the one-mile loop that was dotted with signs displaying facts about the dis­ease. 
At the end of the walk, awards were given to the three highest fundraising teams and the highest fundraising individ­ual. 
Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Clausen returned to the game and orchestrated the game­winning drive. On fourth down, Clausen threw a two-yard strike, hooking up with tight end Kyle Rudolph for the touchdown. 
"Jimmy was in command. He showed great leadership," Skorup said. 
"I couldn't believe it. Clausen for Heisman," Kirk added. 
Contact Brian Metz at bmetz2@nd.edu 


Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
answer for Floyd and Allen's absences. Junior receiver took snaps out the wildcat forma­tion and lined up in the back­field, finishing with over 100 yards and one touchdown from scrimmage. 
"Having Golden and Robert Hughes in the backfield seemed to be an effective way to mix things up, especially in the first half," freshman Rob Kirk said. 
Students said Crist was an admirable substitute for Clausen, leading the Irish on two touchdown drives with Tate. 
"He took care of the football and did his job well," Skorup said. 
When the Irish offense took over possession with 3:41 remaining in the fourth quar­ter, quarterback Jimmy 

Your Classroom in the Aran Islands 
Information Session University College Dublin Dublin, Ireland 
Immerse into an Irish University and still be part ofa Notre Dame Community 
VVednesday,Sept.30,2009 

6:00 pm 129 Hayes Healy 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2009 FOR FALL 2010, SPRING 2011, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2010-2011 APPLICATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDU/-QJS 

THE OBSERVER 








USINESS
Monday, September 28, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
Jones 9,665.19 -42.25 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,378 109 1,661 429,638,481 

-J?~§9 ·~38~80 
-6.40 
+2.93 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP(C)  -1.13  -0.05  4.38  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.53  -0.56  104.45  
BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC)  -2.24  ·0.38  16.60  
E*TRADE FIN CORP (ETFC)  +1.14  +0.02  1.77  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -1.54  -0.0520  3.33  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.00  0.09  
30-YEAR BOND  ·1.94  ·0.0810  4.09  
5-YEAR NOTE  ·0.21  -0.0050  2.37  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.13  66.02  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -7.30  991.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.68  80.70  
Exchange Rates  
YEN 88.9850 EURO 1.4683 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0923 BRITISH POUND 1.5868 



IN BRIEF Baggage fees join overseas flights 
MINNEAPOLIS-You can leave the U.S., but it's getting harder to leave behind baggage fees. 
Fees to check bags on international flights are creeping in and may be here to stay. In the. past three months, all the big U.S. carriers have added $50 fees to check a second bag on flights to Europe. Delta and Continental are charging second-bag fees for flights to Latin America, too. 
We've flown this route before, with domestic bag fees. United Airlines started with a fee to check a second bag last year, and other carri­ers followed. The wave of international bag fees got started July 1_ when Delta began charging to check a second bag between the 
U.S. and Europe. 
By limiting baggage fees to domestic flights, the U.S. carriers left out a huge chunk of their traffic. More than half of Continental's traffic this year has been international. At Delta, which started the move toward international bag fees, almost 39 perc\nt of its traffic is international. 
So far, the U.S. carriers don't charge bag fees on most Asian routes. That will likely change. And charging to check the first bag on intnrnational flights is a revenue opportunity that might be too good to pass up. 
"Yes. Of course baggage fees will spread worldwide to include even the first bag," said Jay Sorensen, an airline consultant. 
Gas prices drop nearly 7 cents 
CAMARILLO. Calif. -The average price of regular gasoline in the United States has dropped nearly seven cents over a two-week period to $2.52·. 
That's according to the national Lundberg Survey of fuel prices released Sunday. 
Analyst Trilby Lundberg says the average price for a gallon of mid-grade on the survey day of' Sept. 25 was $2.65. Premium was at $2.77. 
St. Louis had the lowest average price among cities surveyed, at $2.16 a gallon for regular. An1~horage was the highest at $3.29. 
In California, a gallon of regular cost an aver­age of$3.09. Stockton had the state's least expensive gas at $3.06 a gallon. 
Gap co-founder Donald Fisher dies 

Clothing retail entrepreneur remembered as a visionary, philanthropist 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. Donald G. Fisher, who co­founded apparel giant Gap Inc., has died at age 81 after a long battle with can­cer. 
The company said Fisher died at his home in San Francisco on Sunday morn­ing surrounded by his fami­ly. Those who knew him said he was a great entre­preneur and philanthropist who helped shape the retail world and his local commu­nity. 
Fisher and his wife Doris opened the first Gap in 1969 in San Francisco, after running into difficulties finding jeans that fit. They named the store after the idea of "The Generation Gap" and sold jeans and music, to appeal to a younger crowd. 
The simple, affordable style that became the name­sake brand's trademark resonated with shoppers and took off quickly. 

A former real estate developer with no previous retailing experience, Fisher initially anticipated maybe "as many as 10" stores. But Gap grew to be one of the nation's largest specialty retailers with more than 3,000 stores in over 25 countries. brand recognized as a cul­able to afford well-made with the Fishers to house 
Gap Inc. now also oper­tural icon throughout the clothes at the low prices. the couple's some 1,100 ates the Banana Republic, world and changed the face and highest possible quality works to create one of the Old Navy, Piperlime and of retail forever." that they have today if it nation's greatest art collec­Athleta brands. It became a National Retail Federation were not for what Don tions. publicly traded company in CEO Tracy Mullin said started," Flickinger said. Don Fisher was also a 1976 and reported sales of Fisher's true entrepreneur­Fisher was also widely charter school advocate, $14.5 billion in its 2008 fis­ship permeated everything recognized for his commit­and active in the United cal year. he did, and was part of the ment to philanthropy and Way, Teach for America and 
Fisher guided the compa­reason Gap became such a the San Francisco Bay com­other educational efforts. ny through its largest great global brand. munity where he was born The Fishers gave $15 mil­growth phases, serving as "It feels like the end of an and raised and the compa­lion in 2000 to create the CEO from the company's era in a way," Mullin said. ny's headquarters still KIPP (Knowledge is Power inception through 1995 and "He really was unique in remain. Program) Foundation, a as its chairman until 2004. many ways and people real­The l'ishers' personal art national network of free, He continued as a company ly liked him." collection is renowned and open-enrollment, college­director and as chairman The company was one of includes some of the 20th preparatory public schools emeritus until his death. the first dominant brands, century's most well-known to serve students in under­
"Today we lost a friend, a pioneering the idea of cheap artists, including Richard served communities. They mentor and a great vision­chic, retail consultant Burt Diebenkorn, Roy have provided millions ary," Glenn Murphy, CEO Flickinger III said. He said Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol more to support the organi­and chairman of Gap Inc. many retailers continue to and Willem de Kooning. The zation through the years. said in a statement. "Don model themselves based on San Francisco Museum of Fisher is survived by his and Doris took a simple the company's design. Modern Art announced wife Doris, their three sons idea and turned it into a "Americans would not be Friday it was partnering and 10 grandchildren. 

Mass. discusses high-performancebuildings 
Associated Press Massachusetts -with its snowy is to develop ways to make entire winters and muggy summers -and neighborhoods of older homes dra­
BOSTON-Think "high perform­that go far beyond existing state and matically more energy efficient at ance" and visions of muscle cars utility energy efficiency programs. an affordable cost, Bowles said. pop to mind -not municipal build­Energy and Environmental Affairs "How do you do large-scale com­ings. Secretary Ian Bowles said high per­munity conversions?" He said. 
Massachusetts is hoping to change formance buildings represent the "These are the really difficult ques­that image by encouraging the next stage in energy efficiency after tion~ we haven't been able to figure development of "high performance" strategies such as better insulation out. schools, hospitals, businesses and and tighter windows have achieved The ultimate goal? The "zero net" homes. The state is offering $15 mil­more modest 5 to 15 percent reduc­building. lion in federal stimulus dollars for tions in energy use. Zero net buildings rely on every­proposals for super-energy efficient "We've figured out some of the thing from super-efficient insulation buildings. basics," he said. "What we haven't to solar panel:>, wind turbines and 
The state says it wants projects figured out is how to standardize an geothermal power to be energy neu­that dramatically reduce energy approach that gets us to a 50 per­tral, producing as much energy as consumption and substitute renew­cent reduction." they consume. able energy sources for fossil fuels. That's particularly true for the That's easier said than done ­
The state is also looking for break­state's aging, drafty housing stock­and easier for new buildings where through technologies that can be including its iconic tripledeckers. designers can factor in efficiencies used in buildings throughout One hope from the grant program from scratch. 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 28, 2009 
SWITZERLAND 


Polanski arrested, 

faces ·extradition 
Associated Press 
ZURICH -Director Roman Polanski was arrested by Swiss police as he flew in for the Zurich Film Festival and faces possible extradition to the United States for having sex with a 13-year-old girl in 1977, authorities said Sunday. 
Polanski was scheduled to receive an honorary award at the festival when he was apprehended Saturday at the airport, the Swiss Justice Ministry said in a statement. It said U.S. authorities have sought the arrest of the 76­year-old director around the world sihce 2005. 
"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming," ministry spokesman Guido Balmer told The Associated Press. "That's why he was taken into cus­tody." 
Polanski, the director of such ~lassie films as. "Chinatown" and "Rosemary's Baby," fled the U.S. for France in 1978, a year after pleading guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse with the underage girl. 
Polanski has asked a U.S. appeals court in California to overturn a judges' refusal to throw out his case. He claims misconduct by the now­deceased judge who had arranged a plea bargain and then reneged on it. 
His victim, Samantha Geimer, who long ago identified herself publicly, has joined in Polanski's bid for dismissal, saying she wants the case to be over. She sued Polanski and reached an undisclosed settle­ment. 
Justice Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said the director will remain in Zurich until the conclusion of the extradition proceedings. The United States now has 60 days to file a formal request for Polanski's transfer, she said. 
A U.S. Justice Department spokeswoman in Washington declined to comment on the case Sunday. 
Polanski's French lawyer, Georges Kiejman, told France­Inter radio that it was "too early to know" if Polanski would be extradited. 
"The proceedings must take their course," he said Sunday. "For now we are trying to have the arrest warrant lifted in Zurich." 
Kiejman later told The Associated Press that France does not extradite its citizens and that U.S. authorities had never asked France to prose­cute Polanski at home. 
Balmer said Polanski's arrest was not influenced by politics, even though the director has often traveled or stayed in the country. Novelist Robert Harris, whose book ~'Ghost" is being made into a movie by the director, told Britain's Press Association that Polanski owns a house in Gstaad, which he has visited regularly while filming in Germany, and that there was never any warning he faced arrest. 
In the Swiss capital of Bern, Widmer-Schlumpf told reporters that Switzerland had only one legal option for deal­ing with Polanski's visit, and rejected the idea that there was any U.S. pressure in order­ing the arrest. 
"I know his films, they impressed me very much," she said, but she underlined that Polanski could not be given special treatment because of his artistic talent, especially because the warrant was not for a trivial complaint. 
Switzerland joined Europe's passport-free area in 2008 and ended all passport checks in March on flights to and from Jhe 24 other countries partici­pating in the agreement. Even before then, it rarely closely monitored the identities of travelers from neighboring European countries entering Switzerland. 
Balmer also rejected that the arrest was somehow aimed at winning favor with the U.S. after a series of bilateral spats over tax evasion and wealthy Americans stashing money at Swiss banking giant UBS AG. 
"There is no link with any other issues in question," he told The AP. 
Investigators in the U.S. learned of Polanski's planned trip days ago, giving them enough time to lay the ground­work for an arrest, said William Sorukas, chief of the 
U.S. Marshals Service's domes­tic investigations branch. 
"There have been other times through the years when we have learned of his potential travel but either those efforts fell through or he didn't make the trip," Sorukas told the AP. 
Earlier this year, Superior Court Judge Peter Espinoza in Los Angeles dismissed Polanski's bid to throw out the case because the director failed to appear in court to press his request, but said there was "substantial misconduct" in the handling of the original case. 
In his ruling, Espinoza said he reviewed not only legal doc­uments, but also watched the HBO documentary, "Homan Polanski: Wanted and Desired," which suggests there was. behind-the-scenes manipula­tions by a now-retired prosecu­tor who was not assigned to the case. 
Polanski has lived for the past three decades -in France, where his career has continued to flourish; he received a directing Oscar in absentia for the 2002 movie "The Pianist." He is married to French actress Emanuelle Seigner, with whom he has two chil­dren. 
He has avoided traveling to countries likely to extradite him. For instance, he testified by video link from Paris in a 2005 libel trial in London against Vanity Fair magazine. He did not want to enter Britain for fear of being arrest­ed. 
Rolf· Haferkamp, a spokesman for prosecutors in Duisburg, Germany, declined to comment on why Polanski was not detained or arrested in Germany when he visited in 2008. 
In Paris, Culture Minister Frederic Mitterrand said that he was in contact with French President Nicolas Sarkozy "who is following the case with great attention and shares the minister's hope that the situa­tion can be quickly resolved." 
VENEZUELA 

Chavez offers project aid at summit 
Associated Press 

PORLAMAH, Venezuela ­
Hugo Chavez made diplomatic 
inroads in Africa on Sunday at a 
summit of South American and 
African leaders where he 
offered Venezuela's help in oil 
projects, mining and financial 
assistance. 

Chavez and Libya's Moammar 
Gadhafi led about 30 leaders in 
agreeing to strengthen "South­
South" ties at the two-day meet­
ing, where Gadhafi proposed 
the two continents form a 
NATO-like defense alliance. 
"With this summit, a new era 
begins in the unity of South 
America and Africa," the 
Venezuelan president said. 
Venezuela signed agreements 
to work together on oil projects 
with South Africa, Mauritania, 
Niger, Sudan and Cape Verde. 
Chavez's government agreed to 
partner with South Africa's 
state oil company PetroSA in 
developing oil fields in 
Venezuela, and offered to help 
with oil projects in the other 
countries. 

Venezuela also intends to 
form joint mining companies 
with nations including Namibia, 
Mali, Niger and Mauritania, 
Chavez said, adding that "we're 
going to get results." He said 
the two regions together have , enormous economic potential. 
It is unclear how much invest­
ment and aid Chavez is pre­
pared to offer in Africa since his 
oil-producing country is coping 
with a sharp drop in its rev­
enues due to lower world crude 
prices. 

The summit on Venezuela's 
Margarita Island addressed a 
wide range of concerns, from hunger in Africa to the econom­ic crisis and a common response to climate change. It also gave Chavez an opportuni­ty to increase his influence in Africa while criticizing U.S. and European influence in poorer nations. 
"There will no longer be a unipolar world," Chavez said, referring to U.S. dominance. "In the 21st century, the African Union and South America will be truly great powers." 
Gadhafi, who is making his first visit to Latin America, said the two regions should unite to wield more influence and form a defense bloc, a "NATO for the South," calling it "SATO." 
He criticized the "imperial­ism" of some wealthy countries, saying through an interpreter, "They think the planet is divid­ed into two parts: masters and slaves. The masters are in the North and in the South are the slaves." 
Gadhafi denounced the U.N. Security Council as an elite club where nations such as Libya have no voice, and called for the two continents to unite to demand change -something all the leaders agreed to do in a summit declaration, saying the council should be more "democ­ratic" and "representative." 
The Libyan leader said of leading world powers, without mentiohing which countries: "They say they face terrorism. They're terrified.... But they themselves have created the phenomenon." 
"In the North, they Jive in a state of terror as a result of the hatred they've generated," said Gadhafi, who said a larger role for African and South American 

Session Ill 
Student hands-on Grant Writing Workshop: Wednesday, September 30 
countries can help restore "equilibrium at the internation­al level." 
Presidents from Brazil's Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva to Zimbabwe's Hobert Mugabe agreed on a need for U.N. reform, and called for unity to speak with a stronger voice. 
"We're 65 countries with more than 1 billion inhabitants who want to be heard," Silva said. 
The Brazilian president urged countries in the Africa-South America bloc -dubbed ASA ­to "stop guiding ourselves by the compass of the developed countries." He said closer inte­gration will help the two regions confront the economic crisis. 
Chavez said the crisis reveals the failures of "speculative, plundering" capitalism in wealthy countries. 
"We have to create a new international system, and we're doing it," the socialist president said. "The solution is in our hands. It's not in handouts from the North." 
South American leaders signed an agreement to create a regional development bank with $20 billion in startup capital, and Chavez offered to help cre­ate a "South-South bank" with African countries in the future. 
Chavez said Venezuela signed an agreement with the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization offering agricul­tural assistance in Africa, from seeds to help with irrigation systems. 
"South-South" cooperation was a buzzword at th,e summit, which brought together both the African Union and the South American bloc Unasur. 


3:30-4:30 pm, Coffee House, Geddes Hall 
•..,. 
.;------­
Working on a grant proposal for research during fall or winter break? Need some advice and a fresh pair of eyes? 
The Writing Center is a tutorial service. that assists Notre Dame students in all phases of the writing process, including finding an argument, organizing evidence, and improving grammar and style. Together, we will work to help you improve your writing skills and 
strengthen your grant,..--llilli-P"
proposal. 
....oJ 


Questions? Contact Cecilia Lucero 
clucero@Jnd.edu or umd@nd.edu 



http:/I cuse.nd.edu 
event is 


FREE and open to 

ALL students. .Please bring a copy of your rant proposal -this is a 

hands-on workshop. 

-----------------------~ 
Monday, September 28, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 




Smart kidnapper expects life 
Associated Press 
WEST VALLEY CITY, Utah -In letters written to her mother, the woman charged in the 2002 kidnapping of Elizabeth Smart has sought forgiveness for any pain she has caused and says she expects to spend the rest of her life in prison. 
Wanda Eileen Barzee, 63, however, makes just one reference to Smart in the 12 letters obtained by The Associated Press. And she doesn't provide details about the nine months the girl allegedly spent with her 
and  her  now-estranged  
husband  Brian  David  
Mitchell.  

The couple is charged with multiple felonies in state court and last year was indicted by a federal grand jury. 
"In one of these letters, Wanda is remembering the sins that she did." said Barzee's mother, 88-year­old Dora Corbett, who pro­vided letters sent between July 2008 and August 2009 to The AP. "She doesn't talk about it, she just remem­bers them and says she needs to repent of them." 
But Barzee writes of repentance only when dis­cussing her desire to be re­baptized in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In a June 21 letter, she recounts talking to a local church leader about the steps necessary to regain her membership, which includes making a full confession. 
"He knows that Elizabeth Smart and I were victims of Brian," wrote Barzee, who was excommunicated by the church in 2002. 
Smart's father, Ed Smart, said Barzee may be making progress, but she's not a victim. 
"They're trying to build a 
case of sympathy on Wanda and I just don't have any sympathy for it," he said. "I think she has manipulated ... maybe not just as much (as Mitchell), but I believe that she is very, very culpa­ble." 
Barzee has twice been found incompetent for trial and is undergoing forced treatment with anti-psy­chotic medications. Doctors have said Barzee was delu­sional and believed she was hearing messages from God through the television. She's scheduled to appear in state court for a compe­tency review on Oct. 23. 
Barzee writes of the hear­ing. and says she imagines her social worker "has found me competent, but won't know for sure until I have been given another evaluation." 
"Needless to say how nervous I am," she writes in an Aug. 11 letter. Her mis­sives are written in small, disciplined cursive on lined yellow note paper and most are signed "Love forever, Wanda," followed by a chain of five tiny hand­drawn hearts. 
Depending on the report from doctors, Barzee's case could proceed toward trial, she could be ordered to more treatment, or prose­cutors could seek to have her civilly committed. 
Scott Williams, Barzee's attorney, said he could not comment on the letters but said it was Corbett's right to share communications between her and her daughter. 
Privacy laws prevent state officials from commenting about any patient at the hospital, Utah Department of Human Services spokes­woman Elizabeth Solis said. 
Barzee was arrested March 12, 2003, walking the streets of a Salt Lake 


2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Only Three Blocks from Campus 
$300Signing Bonus for 2010-2011 
lease must besigned before October 10, 2009 
Leases start at only $350 per month, per student/ 
View the floorplan at www.kramerhouses.com 

call (574) 234-2436 
City suburb with Mitchell and Smart. That was nine months after Mitchell allegedly cut through a win­dow screen at the Smarts' Salt Lake City home and whisked away the then-14­year-old Smart at knife­point. 
A one-time itinerant street preacher, Mitchell is said to have wanted Smart as a polygamous wife and may have taken her to ful­fill a religious prophecy he laid out in a 27-page mani­festo drafted in April 2002. Mitchell, 55, has also been found incompetent to stand trial. His state case is stalled, but a federal case against him continues. 

"For the seriousness of my charges, and the num­ber of five first-degree felonies, besides being fed­erally charged, I am expect­ing to receive a life sen­tence in prison," Barzee wrote in an Aug. 11 letter to her mother. 
"Unless I can obtain the plea of not guilty by reason of insanity which will enable me to stay here" at the Utah State Hospital, Barzee wrote. 
Doctors at the state hospi­tal, where Barzee has spent most of the last six years, began administering anti­psychotic drugs after an appeal of a 2006 forced medication order was rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court in May 2008. 

Barzee had long refused medication for religious reasons. She maintains those objections in a July 29, 2008 letter, saying the medication she is forced to take "has not changed any­thing of my thought processes" and that it is her "constitutional right to wor­ship the Lord God in how I choose to worship." 
Corbett, however, believes the medication has put . Barzee on a road to recovery and said the evidence is in the tone of Barz.ee's letters. 
In the earliest years of incarceration, Barzee would reject letters and cards from Corbett, returning them after scrawling "no such per­son" on the envelopes. When Barzee did respond, many of her let­ters were signed, "Hephzibah Eladah Isaiah," the name Mitchell had given Barzee, Corbett said. 
"Sometimes, she would­n't even address me as mother," Corbett said. 
But by April 14, 2009, Barzee writes that she was working with a social worker toward becoming competent, and she apologizes for any suffering she has caused her family and denounces the religious authority she once believed Mitchell held over her. 
"For all the priesthood blessings given to me by Brian's hand where I have felt edified and at peace ... it is extremely difficult to imagine or comprehend how .I was deceived and lied to," she wrote. "I am so sorry, Mother ... Can you for­give me?" 

Glass pile den1onstrates recycling challenges 
Associated Press 
CHEYENNE, Wyo. -After working out at a gym, Amy Mahaffy dropped off a half­dozen glass jars in a city recy­cling container before head­ing home. 
The containers however won't end up being recycled any time soon. Their destina­tion: A mound of glass at the city landfill, an ever-growing monument to the difficulty many communities across the country face in finding a mar­ket for a commodity that's too cheap for its own good. 
"We are stockpiling it in a desperate search for a mar­ket," landfill foreman Monty Landers said. 
Cheyenne hasn't recycled the glass it collects -9 tons a week -for years. Instead, the city has been putting it in the landfill, using it to sur­round the concrete-walled wells that pump toxic fluids out of the dump. 
Told where the glass bottles and jars that she diligently rinses out end up, Mahaffy seemed dismayed. "I don't think that's what they should be doing with it," she said. "I think they should be recycling it." 
The economics of glass recycling have been marginal for some time. 
Nationwide, only about 25 percent of glass containers are recycled. That's compared to 31 percent of plastic con­tainers, 45 percent of alu­minum cans and 63 percent of steel cans, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. 
In northern Idaho, Kootenai County gave up collecting glass last year. In Oregon, which was the first of 11 states to adopt a bottle deposit law in 1971, Deschutes County stockpiled 1,000 tons of glass at its land­fill before finally finding a use for it a couple years ago -as fill beneath an area for col­lecting compost. 
Glass also has piled up at the landfill serving Albuquerque, N.M., where officials this year announced that a manufacturer of water­absorbing horticultural stones would eventually use up their stockpiles. New York City gave up glass recycling from 2002 to 2004 because officials decided it was too costly. 
In a sense, glass ought to be the perfect commodity to recycle. It can be recycled an infinite number of times. Melting down one glass bottle and making another isn't par­ticularly complicated or espe­cially costly. 
The challenge is that the main ingredient in glass, sand, is plentiful and cheap ­often cheaper than cullet, which is glass that has been prepared for recycling. 
Used glass must be sorted by color and cleaned before it can be crushed into cullet that is suitable for recycling into new containers. That contributes to much of the cost of recycling glass, said Joe Cattaneo, president of the Glass Packaging Institute in Alexandria, Va. 
"It's not just a glass compa­ny buying it from your munic­ipal waste company, or recy­cling company," Cattaneo 
said. "Some entity has to clean it so it meets the speci­fications of mixing it with sand, soda ash and lime­stone." 
Another cost is transporta­tion. The farther away a com­munity is from glass proces­sors and container manufac­turers, he said, the more expensive it is to recycle it. 
Cheyenne has been in touch with glass recyclers in Colorado but has yet to find a feasible arrangement for glass recycling, said Dennis Pino, director of the city sani­tation department. "If we're going to try and do something that's going to put us in the hole, it's not a good idea, especially with the economy," Pino said. 
One of the region's largest glass recyclers, an 0-I Inc. bottling manufacturing plant, is only 50 miles south of Cheyenne in Windsor, Colo. That plant gets the vast majority of its cullet not from Wyoming or even Colorado, but from the 11 states with bottle deposit laws, company spokeswoman Stephanie Johnston said. 
Bottles returned for 5-cent or 10-cent deposits are kept sorted by color and usually haven't been mixed with other recyclable materials or trash. As a result, cullet pro­duced from such glass is more likely to meet the company's very high standards -com­pletely free of paper, plastic, metal or other contaminants, she said. 
"Our interest in recycled content is high. But the way the system is currently set up, it's hard for us to get quality, clean cullet right now," Johnston said. "We're trying to find some ways to increase the amount of quality cullet from the states that don't have bottle bills." 
Johnson said 0-I prefers to use cullet rather than sand because cullet requires less energy to melt down. 
0-I has billed the 4-year-old facility as the most modern of its kind in the world. Cheyenne was runner-up in the race to land the plant in 2003. 
Within sight of its landfill glass, Cheyenne has begun building a recycling center that will handle a variety of materials including glass. The city still needs to complete two more leachate wells at the landfill, Pino said, and after that the center should be able to process the rest of the stockpiled glass. 
Mahaffy said that's good enough for her to keep recy­cling her glass. 
"If they're keeping it some­place separate where they could recycle it in the future, that's one thing," she said. "But if they're not ever plan­ning on recycling it, that irri­tates me." 
The city plans to buy a glass pulverizer and is considering at least two uses for the glass it plans to grind into a fine consistency -in place of sand in road construction and at playgrounds, Pino said. 
"It's not dangerous. It's been tested -it works great," he said. "We don't want to just keep stockpiling it. We want to find another use for it." 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, September 28, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
We live here, you know 
P.O. Box 779, Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAG lNG EDITOR 

(S74) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking)@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-)323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(S74) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration of eirher institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofrhe aurhors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsert'er policies should be directed w Ediwr-in-Chiifjmn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The: Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publisiwd Monday (hrough Friday exctp!: dwing ~and WQ.don paiods. A liUbscripEion ro The Observer is $120 for one acati(tnic. year. $65 for one semem:r. 
The ObscM:t is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address cott«tions. ro: Notte lhm<. IN 46556-11779 The Observer Periodical j)OWge paidlit Norte Dame: P.O. Box779 and additional mailing offlCC:S. 024 Sou£h Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 465-56-0779 
The Observer is a ~r ofthe Aisociarcd. Press. All .reproduction rights. are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Madeline Buckley Lianna Amanda Gray Brauweiler Ann-Marie Sports Woods Laura Myers Graphics Eric Prister Mary Cecilia Andrew Owens Mitsch Scene Jessica Shaffer 
A recent "Scholastic" piece addressed tensions in the Notre Dame student/alumni relationship. Highlighting this Freudian strain seems to have replaced our former pastime (past-pass­time?) of bemoaning Notre Dame-South Bend relations. 
But wait! Eddy Street Commons cured that tension, didn't it? Yeah, Chipotle and the Notre Dame Bookstore "outlet" are definitely tai­lored to low­income families who actually live around the area. Perhaps, however, the answer to the problem between University-community relations does not lie in equal-opportunity shopping. 
Let's think about it. How many times have you told someone that you attend Notre Dame and received the response, "Where's that?" For Midwesterners, this probably isn't the case. so for your enlightenment: Few people outside of the Midwest realize where Notre Dame is located. 
Blasphemy! Holy Mother of Lakes! How could our conspicuous reputation retain such an anonymity of place? 
At the risk of sounding accusatory, it's our own fault. It relates seamlessly with the Notre Dame-South Bend rela­tions tension. 
We don't do a good job of appreciat­ing Indiana. Sure, we can't laud her massive peaks or grand canyons, her clean air or starry sky, but without the great glacial flattening of the Midwest. how would the Great Lakes have ever formed? (Think of the plains as a mas­sive plateau.) In order to begin mend­ing the gap between our carefully manicured campus and the actual Indiana culture and environment, we need to understand and embrace our 

Jackie Mirandola-Mullen 
Freckled Thoughts 
region beyond campus borders. 

Indiana is unique in taking one for the team and actually housing substan­tial amounts of industry. Next time you gush about how wonderful Chicago is, remember that all of the steel that makes those buildings (and the bean) comes from the oft-ridiculed industrial griminess that is East Chicago, Gary and Michigan City. 
Sure, the state itself hasn't helped our perception of its "clean" practices, trying to pass bills like this past spring's Indiana Senate Bill 420 that attempted to redefine coal as "renew­able" to increase its funding possibili­ties (don't worry, it didn't make it out of committee). But when your state's entire livelihood is built on coal, secur­ing funding for the enabler of your eeonomic 11xistence seems momentari­ly more important than long-term envi­ronmental benefits. 
The railways, the mills, the high­ways, the farms all make the "beauty" of Chicago possible. When we separate our resources too intensely, the pro­duetion side is all too often lost to the consumer. America ean't send all of our factories to India, which makes Indiana's (albeit sometimes too eager) willingness to house these industries very valuable to the ideas of "national seeurity" that our country superficially totes. 

When you are a state that is flat and nondescript on first glance, it's tough to convinee people that it's a great place to build unique character of place. Yet, that same flatness was what drew the original founders of Notre Dame. The Holy Cross brothers saw the land as good for farming, rich in natural resources for building, with flatness that made it easy to build upon. Notre Dame did not exist inde­pendently of Indiana; it was and is a part of the farming state whose heavy industry arrived somewhat later, but whose light industry began around the same time as the founding and con­struction of our very campus. 
Indiana's flatness gets ridiculed, but it's why we are here. The Midwest is "simple" because life is fairly simple. Other than tough winters, which have been fought by regional abundances of wood and now coal, there are no major obstacles to living in Indiana. No water shortages, earthquakes, fires, ava­lanches or volcano fears, and even lessened tornado fears because of the Great Lakes. 
It can be tough to remember that flatness is not equal with lack of char­acter. Yet, not only does Indiana pos­sess its own identity, which we as resi­dents of the state are inextricably a part of, but it also holds its own natu­ral beauty. 
If we really want to improve rela­tions between Notre Dame and Indiana, we have to venture past Corby's and the Morris Center. Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, i'otato Creek State Park and the St. Joe River Trail are just a few of the many pre­served areas with real, complete ecosystems that are just as naturally beautiful and complex as dramatic nat­ural wonders. Try visiting them if you are skeptical that flatness can hold appeal. 
Community-campus relations are not going to improve until we can embrace the community. We don't have to love everything the state does, but if we stop pretending we aren't a part of it, it's a lot easier to work to help improve the dirtier, less appealing parts we may feel squeamish about. And while we're in the process, we might as well appreciate all of the natural and prac­tical beauty that Indiana already has to offer. 
Jackie Mirando/a Mullen is a junior history and German major who believes flatness is more than just a lack of mountains. She can be reached at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What is your favorite new restaurant at Eddy St. Commons? 
"The real danger is not that 

computers will begin to think like 
Five Guys 
men, but that men will beg,in
Chipotle 
to think like computers. ' 

Hot Box Pizza New Irish Bar Sydney J. Harris 
U.S. journalist

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, September 28, 2009 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Being subject to second-hand biking, also called "being hit by a bike" or "road kill" may be even more harmful than actually biking. That's because the front of the bike that hits the innocent pedes­trian contains more harmful substances (spinning tires, handlebars, basket) than the soft seat the rider sits on. This is widely known; if you ask someone ran­domly if being hit by a bike is bad for them, most people will answer affirma­tively. 
Yet, at Notre Dame we still allow bik­ing on campus. At this University, renowned for its intelligent inhabitants, 
My right to free sidevvalks 
we still allow a known danger to careen into student's bodies regardless of how they feel about it. Make no mistake, it is a danger. Second hand biking can cause as many, if not more, health problems than biking. 
There is no "safe" level of second-hand biking. Being hit by a bike really hurts. It can cause bleeding, broken bones, owies and boo-boos. Those who may argue that they have a right to allow potential harms to their bodies state that disallow­ing biking on campus would violate this right. I would answer yes, you do have a right to bike and cause horrible things to happen to others. I would continue that I also have a right-a right to personal health. A person biking on the sidewalk where I need to walk is violating my right to keep myself safe and healthy by forcing me to either risk a collision or climb a tree. 
So please, Notre Dame, revoke the privilege of biking on campus. At least construct a 10-foot high suspended side­walk over the ground level so that bikers may ride above the students and be banned everywhere else, so those of us who do not wish to encounter second­hand biking may avoid an unexpected 
page 11 

collision with it. I for one do not wish to have my parents scrape my flattened remains off the sidewalk, like a pancake off a skillet, after being run down by a rogue bike because someone was incon­siderately biking on the sidewalk. 
Ross Degenhardt James Bishko Cameron Thorpe Brendan Andrew Alan Yanchak sophomores Duncan Hall Sept. 24 


So tnuch for Saturday 
Dear those of you who were screaming on North Quad at 9:00 a.m. Saturday morning, 
Here at Notre Dame, we spend our fall semesters getting little sleep, trying to balance a heavy academic course load, a decent social life and football games. Our only opportunities to sleep in are Saturday mornings of away-game weekends. Why was it necessary to hold Pyro-lympics on a Saturday, why that early and why were you on North Quad? 
In the future, please consider moving this event to Stepan Fields or nearer to Pasquerilla East at the very least, out of respect for every non-Pyro or anyone who values his or her precious sleep. Otherwise, please extend the invitation to everyone on North Quad (and any­where else you paraded) because Lord knows we were all awake. 
Lauren Thompson junior Farley Hall Sept. 26 

Football a health hazard 
Dear beloved football team, 
My healthcare insurance provider has considered heart attacks a pre-existing condition for the past few seasons and will not cover them. 
Thank you for your consideration. 
Russell Montgomery alumnus class of 2003 Sept. 27 

Is God sexist? 
In reading Daniel Quinlan's argument against female priests in the Sept. 25 Letter to the Editor ("The doctrine of male priesthood"), his reasoning led me to an interesting corollary. His argument is sum­marized as such: According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, no one has rights to priesthood. Also stated in the Catechism, it is only through God's call that one can become a priest. 
To me, this implies one of two things. Case 1: The catechism is wrong and God does call both men and women to priesthood, but the hierarchy of the Church does not take the calls to women seri­ously. Like everyone, I know plenty of pious women who would make phenomenal priestesses. However, because of the patriarchal structure of the Church that has existed throughout history, women are denied the chance to have true leadership positions in the Church. Discrimination against women has been and still is a major problem for the world and the Church is also guilty of this. 
Or, Case 2: God is sexist. Maybe the Catechism is right. Perhaps God really does only call men to be priests. It seems to me like God is playing favorites. God created both men and women in his image. If both are such wonders of his creation, why would God have any problems calling women to leadership roles in the hierarchy .of his Church? If the Catechism is right and God does only call men to be priests, then he must have a bias. This bias, as it is called in all cases, is known as sexism and like all prejudices, it should not be tolerated. In either case, there is no legitimate reason why women cannot be priests. 
At some point, women are being discriminated against unfairly, either by people or by God. As we know from our progress as human beings, such discrimination is never acceptable. 
Andy Hills sophomore Carroll Hall Sept. 25 

Second-hand stnoke is no joke 
I wholeheartedly agree with the senti­ments expressed by Brandie Ecker of Pasquerilla West in her recent Letter to the Editor, "My right to clean air" (Sept. 24). She speaks for all of us when she says, "I, for one, do not wish to die of cancer in the future." Yet I submit that she has only scratched the surface in requesting a cam­pus-wide smoking ban; the University has been woefully negligent in preventing the spread of cancer from sources even more deadly than outdoor second-hand smoke. 
First and foremost, Fr. Jenkins must act now to implement an outright ban on the sucking of tailpipes, which emit dangerous exhaust fumes. The next logical step is the immediate demolition of all laboratory materials, waste and personnel of the Radiological Research Center, which the Vietnam War-supporting administration cleverly sandwiched between all the other non-descript buildings of Library Quad in the 1960s. 
Additionally, the purification of our cam­pus' most vital and least-used natural resource is long overdue. The addition of 
239.85 pounds of Cyanuric Acid stabilizer to St. Mary's and St. Joseph's Lakes would bring that long-stagnant water from the incredibly hazardous level of 15 PPM Cyanuric Acid to the relatively safe level of 999 PPM. 
Once these initial steps have been taken, the University needs to protect students from skin cancer, which recently sur­passed even outdoor second-hand smoke in the World Health Organization's annual Cancer Lethality Charts. I propose the dis­tribution and mandatory use of adult­sized, UV-protective, breathable hamster balls for all members of the Notre Dame family. 

Importantly, this bold initiative for stu­dent safety can be paid for without an increase in tuition to families who make under $250,000 or a dip into the University's vast, vast reserves of cash and priceless artifacts. That's because it respects the right to choose: those students and alumni who decline the health benefits of the hamster ball may buy-out for the cost of their Notre Dame degree. 
As that 20th-century titan of industry C. Montgomery Burns famously said, "Mankind has always dreamed of destroy­ing the sun." In order to expedite the con­version of that dream to reality, the University of Notre Dame needs to take a leading role in the age-old war between man and nature. The time is now. What would you fight for? 
Tom Dybicz 
senior 
offcampus Sept. 24 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
By NICK ANDERSON Scene Writer 

Defenestration. Good action. better word and the reason that Americans can identify Patrick McGoohan. A severely underrated actor on this side of the pond, McGoohan gave a chilling perform­ance as Longshanks, including the defenestration of his son's lover, in "Braveheart." As memorable as this performance is, McGoohan 's best role came 30 years prior, in the British miniseries "The Prisoner." 
The basic plot of "The would spend the Prisoner" is simple next 45 minutes enough. An unnamed spy either foiling resigns from MI6 for Number 6's undisclosed reasons. escape attempts
ISPY:
He's followed home, or interrogating him, only to be 

PRISO ER 
drugged, kidnapped and taken to the Village. The Village is a Technicolor nightmare of constant sur­veillance, mysterious civil­ity and dry British wit and charm. Names are no longer used; instead residents of the Village are given numbers. The unnamed spy is Number 6, the only title given to him throughout the series. Number 2 is the acting director of the Village, and constantly attempting to retrieve infor­mation from Number 6. Order is kept by Rover, a roaming, sentient weather balloon who smothers any­one foolish enough to disobey Number 2. 
The series abounds with questions. Who is Number 1? Is the Village run by enemies or allies? What does Number 6 know? Exactly how much acid was dropped in the 60s? In its 17 episode run, all these questions 
are prodded but never quite answered. The final two episodes offer a conclusion that divided the audience; some loved it, others hated it. In its run, it was the strangest, most confusing -but incredibly fascinat­
ing-show on the air. 
McGoohan was the mind bnhind the 
entire show, inspired by urban 
legends of a similar prison dur­
ing World War II. The cre­
ative design of the show is 
unorthodox. Number 6 
never has a love inter­
est. Each episode 
began with Number 6 
speaking to a new 
Number 2, who 
replaced at the con­elusion of the episode. 

The show also refused to follow a linear narrative. The events of each episode, with the exception of the first and last, occur independent of the others, causing episode order to be meaningless. Viewing is a distinctly British experience with undeniable inflwmce from the surreal. 
While it was popular in its initial run, "The Prisoner" is clearly perfect for a cult following. Easily quotable, highly symbolic and oddly compelling, it 
Monday, September 28, 2009 

Photo courtesy of http:ltwww.obsessedwtthtilm.com 
offers a strong case for obsession. Since its conclu­sion, fans have been seeking another venue for the experience. Plans often start with big name directors connected with actors, only to smolder in production. AMC finally followed through, filming a six-episode remake starring Jim Caviezel and Ian McKellen set to air in November. 
It's well known that remakes are dangerous jour­neys, more likely to fail than anything else. It also doesn't help that McGoohan refused to be involved in any aspect of the new series, bluntly stating that he'd already done it. Expectations from fandom are high, especially for McKellen's portrayal of Number 
2. With the exception of some isolated incidents, the media push made by the show has been almost nonexistent. AMC is hoping to catch the mystery and wonder of the original series. It has bought the rights to the original's broadcast and are hosting the series, in its entirety on its Web 
site. With only a month before 
the remake goes on the air, 
there is just enough time to for 
fans to immerse themselves in 
the original and promote the 
hype surrounding the new show. 
Questions are nothing new for 
viewers, but the most important one this fall will be "Can AMC improve on the original?" 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

By EMILY DORE Scene Writer 

The dog is man's best friend. He's seen braces, first dates and high school graduations. He's woken you up at 5 a.m., eaten the rest of that delicious turkey sandwich and tackled you into the bushes in the backyard. Good day or bad, he's always made sure to cuddle up at the end of your bed. But there's one thing he can't do ... go to college. 
Your poor furry friend has been waiting for you since August. Who can forget seeing that pathetic wet nosed face as your minivan pulled out on its way to Notre Dame? Initially your dorm room looked really sweet with its movie posters, futon, fridge and televi­
sion, but in a few 
missing fea­
puppy 
on 
the bed 
loft. 
Since 
non-car­
nivorous 
fish in the 
are not 
it's 
missing 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

Break, here's some ways to cure that home­ 
sickness for your dog, and get excited to see that tail wagging when you greet him in  /) ,...., · 1_,-.  
October:  ~'­ 

~ ':1
Dailypuppy.com: Bassets, boxers 
and beagles ... where better to find them then dailypuppy.com, "your daily fix for puppy pictures." Everyday the site features a new 
adorable puppy, and you can vote for him by clicking on the biscuits. Most puppies get 10 or 11 biscuit votes, truly showing where the cutest puppies are on the Web. 
~~

YouTube: A quick YouTube hit of the words "puppy" or "dog" yields some gold­en moments. Want to see a dog run into his reflection in a mirror? "Puppy v. Mirror" has got it covered. Or how about a puppy struggling to roll over'? Check out "Puppy Can't Holl Back Over." But the best of all: "Cute Puppy Whistle," in which a 3-week-old Labrador attempts to whistle: 3 million hits. 
Pet the Fisher Hall basset hound: She may be a lit­tle smelly but definitely loves belly rubs. 
Volunteer at the St. .Joseph's County Humane Society (through Circle K): Those dogs are cooped up in cages all days, just dying for some attention. Do yourself. and the dog, a treat by walking them around the shelter a little. Don't forget the pooper scooper. 
Framed photos: In high school, chemistry always seemed a little easier when Spot was ol'l'ering encour-
G -. ./ 
• 

" • J.........,..
:rr
I
r....,.
'r­

~ 
1 . _ ..::: • 
agement by your side. Though he can't be there dur­ing Orgo study sessions, a little photograph of your dog can be a nice reminder that midterms are almost over and games of fetch just around the corner. 
Watch "Homeward Bound" or "101 Dalmatians": These two movies are not as funny to a college stu­dent as a live-year-old, but they are still classics. And who knows? Maybe your dog is making his own "incredible journey" like Shadow and Chance to find you in South Bend, Ind. 
So curl up on the futon, grab a eopy of "101 Dalmatians," and remember that your dog is ready to give you a big lick on the race when his best friend comes home. 
Contact Emily Dore at edore@nd.edu 
IJ
'Jj 
~_, 

/ 
~ 
1111\. \ 
,.~·\) 


NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, September 28, 2009 BSERVER Notre Dame 24, Purdue 21 
Gutting it out 
Late touchdown to Rudolph allows Irish to sneak past Purdue, 24-21 
By ALEX BARKER 
Assisram Sports Editor 
Plagued by a number of injuries at a multitude of posi­tions, Notre Dame didn't look itself Saturday night. But just as the hope began to fade, a familiar face came to the res­cue. 
Junior quarterback Jimmy ClaU'sen led the Irish on a mes­rperizing 72-yard drive, capped off by sophomore tight end Kyle Rudolph's touchdown reception on fourth-and-goal from the two-yard line with just 25 seconds remaining to give Notre Dame a 24-21 victo­ry over Purdue Saturday at Ross-Ade Stadium. 
"It's a standard red-zone play," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "We run it in practice all the time and Kyle ran it exactly how he should have." 
With 3:41 to play and the Irish down by three, an injured Clausen took the field for only the fourth time in the half to engineer the game-winning drive. On a key third down play from the Purdue 36, Clausen found senior Robby Parris for a 15-yard reception to keep the drive alive. After a 17-yard pass to junior Golden Tate, the Irish failed to punch it in on their first three tries from the after two less-than-impressive ed to keep Purdue's offense on which yielded just a 34-yard season. three-yard line. drives that yielded just three the sideline." field goal from freshman Nick Purdue (1-3) wasted no time 
"After we broke the huddle points, thanks in part to Sophomore Jonas Gray got Tausch, the Irish fought back taking advantage of the falter­[on fourth and goal]. [Rudolph] Purdue penalties. the start for Notre Dame at to take a 17-7 halftime lead ing Irish offense, scoring on its came up to me and said, On his first play from scrim­tailback, but received just four behind rushing touchdowns first drive of the fourth quarter, 'Jimmy, get me the ball,' and I mage for the Irish (3-1), Crist carries after the first quarter. from Hughes and Tate. a 59-yard drive culminating told him, 'You'd better get up called his own number, dashing He finished with 27 yards on Notre Dame's offense domi­with Smith's touchdown catch and catch the ball,'" Clausen for a 16-yard gain. He finished nine carries. nated the third quarter, owning to pull within four. said. with 23 yards rushing on the The Irish offense had a 11:40 of the possession time Just two possessions later, 
Clausen completed 15 of 26 night. strong showing in the second versus Purdue's 3:20. However, the game looked to be swinging passes for 171 yards, a touch­"I thought [Crist] did a nice quarter with the implementa­the quarter rendered no points irreversibly in Purdue's direc­down, and his first interception job," Weis said. "There were a tion of their Wildcat formation, for either side. During the tion. The Boilermakers scored on the season. couple throws he would like but it was the defense that Irish's second drive of the another touchdown, this time a 
"[Clausen] actually wasn't back, but I thought he really stepped up when the offense quarter, Crist and company 38-yard reception by senior supposed to play in the second managed the game well." sputtered. found themselves facing a running back Jaycen Taylor, half," Weis said. "He took some After recording just one Mter a poor effort on the first fourth-and-1 0 on the Purdue who waltzed in for the score medication at halftime, and we catch in the first quarter, Tate's drive of the game that resulted 34. After taking a timeout to after being left completely tried to run a lot of shotgun role quickly shifted from in an 80-yard Boilermaker mull a decision, Weis elected to unguarded on the sideline. formations so it would take receiver to running back. The touchdown drive, the defense go for it, but the Irish were However, for the second pressure off his footwork. At junior took seven snaps from stifled a strong Purdue running turned away after Crist was straight week, the Purdue the beginning of the fourth the Wildcat formation, as well game the rest of the way. sacked back at the 41-yard defense was unable to keep its quarter, he said he could go as the featured back behind Boilermaker running back line. opponent out of the endzone in and when the game got to that Crist, in the second quarter, Ralph Bolden, who was ranked "We talked about a few situa­the final minutes to clinch a situation. I listened to him and running for 50 yards and a second nationally in rushing tions during the timeout," Weis win. went ahead and put him in score. yards heading into the game, said of the play. "We were try­While the Irish victory was there." Junior Robert Hughes also was held to just 67 yards on ing to figure out if we wanted anything but convincing, Weis 
Before Clausen's heroics stole took on a much bigger role in the ground. to take a delay of game or isn't concerned as long as his the spotlight on the final drive, the offense for the first time On the flipside, junior wide draw them off sides. We had a team keeps winning. the story of the game was this season. With the starting receiver Keith Smith had his lot of exotic punt formations "That's three weeks in a row Notre Dame's latest version of backfield of junior Armando way with the Irish defense. we could have tried, but I have you come down to the last the Wildcat offense behind Allen and senior James Smith pulled in 11 catches for no regrets other than the fact minute of the game,'' he said. backup quarterback Dayne Aldridge out with injuries, 136 yards, including a three­that we didn't get the first "Would you like the game to be Crist. The sophomore, who had Hughes led the Irish with 68 yard touchdown reception right down." easier than that? Yes, absolute­only taken two meaningful yards and a touchdown on 15 between senior defensive backs In the fourth quarter, the ly, but give me a close win any­snaps before Saturday's carries. Sergio Brown and Kyle game slowly began to take on time of the week. I'll take it." matchup with the "Our focus was on running McCarthy early in the fourth that same too-close-for-comfort Boilermakers, took over for the ball and keeping posses­quarter. feeling that has become a sta­Contact Alex Barker at Clausen in the second quarter sion," Hughes said. "We want-Despite an ugly first quarter ple for the Irish games this abarker1 @nd.edu 


player of the game 
Jimmy Clausen Irish quarterback 

The last-minute, game-winning drive on basically one foot showed poise and moxie. 
stat of the game 
3.9 

Notre Dame's yards per carry. Even without Armando Allen, the Irish managed a competent rushing attack 
play of the game 
Clausen to Rudolph, 2-yard TD pass 
On fourth down, the Irish were finally able to punch in a game-winning score with only 25 seconds left on the clock. 

quote of the game 
'1 know hejust wanted to be out there. He's a competitor, and he wants the ball in his hands at all times. " 
Kyle Rudolph Irish tight end on Jimmy Clausen 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 28, 2009 
report card 
A­
8 
8­

quarterbacks: Even though it was Jimmy Clausen's least impressive statistical game, the junior showed guts leading a game-winning drive. Backup Dayne Crist played mistake-free football. 
running backs: Even without leading rush­er Armando Allen, Notre Dame rushed for 167 yards. Robert Hughes led the way with a bruising 68 yards on 15 carries and Jonas Gray had another 27 yards. 
receivers: Golden Tate played well from wherever he lined up, but no one stepped up in Michael Floyd's absence. Duval Kamara had a couple costly penalties but blocked well. 
offensive line: Penalties continue to be 

C 
an issue for this unit, but run block­
+ing continued to be successful. Four 
8­8­8­8 
8­

huge victory for an injury­plagued Irish team on the road. 
2.83 

adding up the numbers 
Straight wins by the Irish when they outrush their opponent, who are 18-0 when winning 
18 
the rushing battle under Charlie We is. 

46 
Years since the Notre Dame-Purdue game had failed to sellout in West lafayette. Attendance was 59,082. 
Rushing yards for Notre Dame in the second quarter on 16 carries by four 

136
different ball carriers. 

0 
The number of passing yards in the two touch­down-scoring drives in the second quarter. 
The Irish attempted just one pass in those drives. 
Plays directed by Jimmy Clausen before the 
2 4 

fourth quarter while the junior quarterback was limited by a turf toe injury. 
sacks was a step back in pass protec­tion for Clausen and Crist. 
defensive line: The front four was able to close more holes in the running game and limit Ralph Bolden, but more con­sistent pressure is still needed. 
linebackers: Darius Fleming and Brian Smith made more plays in the backfield than in any other game this season. Toryan Smith struggled in pass coverage and tackling. 
defensive backs: Darrin Walls picked off a pass, but this unit made Joey Elliott look better than he really is. The secondary struggled at times in run support. 
special teams: Nick Tausch converted his only field goal attempt and had better distance on his kickoffs. Maust struggled early punting but had a solid second half. 
coaching: Tenuta showed more variety in bringing pressure and dropping line­backers into coverage. Weis had success with creative packages to compensate for injuries. 
overall: Another ugly win, but a 
The 2011 Irish proved they can win in 2009. 
We saw Dayne Crist play passably well. We saw Jonas Gray show he can run and receive. We saw the offense, without Armando Allen and with a hob­bled Jimmy Clausen, prove that it can win a dose game. Despite injuries, despite offensive trou­bles, they won. 

Bill Brink 

The 2009 defense proved 
Managing

to have some 
Editor

work to do. 
There were flashes. Brian Smith had a big stop on third down. Darrin Walls had an acrobatic interception. Once,again, Kyle McCarthy led the team in tackles. When Manti Te'o played, he disrupted plays. The defensive line, which didn't pressure Michigan State's Kirk Cousins and had trouble containing Michigan's Tate Forcier, got pressure on Joey Elliott. 
It's conceivable they could buckle down and stifle opposing offenses this season. Notre Dame has the personnel. They have Jon Tenuta, maestro of some effective, tena­cious defenses in the past, calling the shots. 
Tenuta can call any blitz he wants and the athletes can track down any offensive player they want, but unless they tackle, it's all for naught. 
Tackle. I don't mean wrapping someone up until your boys sprint over and bail you out. I don't mean launching yourself horizontal to the ground and hoping for the best. I mean a proper form tackle, hips low, shoulders square, wrapping up around the thighs so he can't dance away. 
Did Terry Tate ever pause next to a cubicle to arm-tackle someone around the shoulders, or rocket himself past a lazy worker and crash through the conference room window? No. lie form-tackled. 
This was a game where the Irish needed their defense at its best. Without Allen, the leading rusher, the offense used Gray and Robert Hughes, both capable players but neither able to repli­cate Allen's produc­tion. 
ing rusher, to 67 yards on 17 car­ries. But they also allowed Elliott to pass for 289 yards and three touchdowns. 
They got a key stop when they needed it, on the second-to-last play, in emphatic fashion. But they also left Jaycen Taylor all alone near the left hash to run 38 yards untouched for a go-ahead touch­down with less than four minutes remaining. 
You could say the players need to buckle down and take pride in their play, or whatever cliche usu­ally gets thrown around here. You could put it on the coaches, say 
they need to drill the 
players in the funda­
mentals. 


Clausen was visi­Tenuta can call any But I'm not. The 
bly bothered by the Irish won. It's irrele­
blitz he wants and
turf toe in his right vant. Charlie Weis 
foot. lie couldn't the athletes can track knows that, so do the step into his throws down any offensive players. It's just like usual, and pass­something to keep in
player they want, but 
es he completes mind for Washington. with his eyes dosed unless they tackle, it,s Something to help 
missed their mark. all for naught. the cause: increase 
Crist did what was asked of him, com­pleting 5-of-1 0 pass­es for 45 yards. The coaches sim­plified the playbook for Crist, who saw his first meaningful game experience, rolling him out to avoid pressure and giving him quick reads. 
Turns out Clausen had enough juice in his toe to fire a 97-mile­per-hour bullet to Kyle Rudolph. But that's not the point. 

With the ol"fense struggling, the defense could have made a state­ment. Instead, they made several. They held Ralph Bolden, at one point this season the nation's lead-the dosage of Manti. 
He's quick, he's 

strong, he's the best blitzer the Irish have. He plays middle linebacker, a position that allows him to impose his will on the offense no matter what the play. 
He'll be around with those 2011 Irish. But he can contribute in 2009. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
16 
Games won in Notre Dame history on the 
road with 25 seconds or less time remaining in regulation. 
Consecutive pass attempts without an interception for Clausen before getting 

147 
picked off in the second quarter. 

3 
Clausen's rank among Notre Dame's career 
touchdown leaders after adding the late score on Saturday. 

.. 

Check out The Observer's Irish Insider podcast 
at ndsmcobserver.com/podcasts 
as boat wrltms Bill Brink, Michael Bryan, Matt Gamber &Sam Worner discuss Notre Dame's win over Purdue. 
• 

--------~-----~~-----­
Monday, September 28, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Second string shines in late win 
PAT COVENEYfThe Observer 

Irish sophomore quarterback Dayne Crist hands off to junior running back Robert Hughes. Both filling in for injured starters, Crist was 5-of-10 for 45 yards passing, while Hughes ran the ball 15 times for 68 yards. 
athleticism with a 16-yard run. Between runs out of the Wildcat, end By MICHAEL BRYAN "Dayne can bring something Jimmy around plays and lining up at running Associate Sports Editor doesn't, he can run the ball, and you back, Tate carried the ball nine times 
saw some of his speed and power," for 57 yards. The junior was also the 
For the storybook ending, it was the Tate said. leading Notre Dame receiver with five usual cast of Notre Dame stars that After Tate picked up a first down on catches for 57 yards. connected to give the Irish a 24-21 win a draw play while lined up at running The combination of Hughes, Gray at Purdue. But before Jimmy Clausen back, junior Robert Hughes took over and Riddick combined for 170 yards in and Kyle Rudolph's heroics, it was an to finish the drive. junior Armando Allen's unheralded set of Irish backups that Hughes, who been pri­absence staked the injury-plagued team to an marily used as a full­"I was encouraged
"[Crist] managed the

early 17-7 lead and set the stage back since senior James with how the running
game very well.,, 

before Clausen led the comeback win. Aldridge was injured backs practiced this Without the starting quarterback, against Nevada, ran four week," Weis said. "We running back, fullback and wide straight times for 37 practiced Jonas and
Charlie Weis 

receiver out, sophomore quarterback yards and the first Notre Robert a whole bunch,
Irish coach 

Dayne Crist guided two consecutive Dame touchdown. and I thought we would scoring drives in the second quarter, "That's the hardest end up getting some receiving significant contributions I've seen him run," Weis good production today." from second-string running backs said of Hughes. "He wanted the ball While it was Clausen who led the Robert Hughes and Jonas Gray. and wanted to run people over." clutch game-winning drive in the 
With a far different offensive person­With the Irish up 10-7, the second fourth quarter, the big contributions nel group in the game, Irish coach possession with Crist under center fea­from deeper on the depth chart con­Charlie Weis showed the Boilermaker tured a combination of Tate lined up tinued. Senior Robby Parris, whose defense many different formations and in the Wildcat, Hughes pounding the role has expanded since the season­packages, including junior wide ball and freshman Theo Riddick mak­ending injury to sophomore Michael receiver Golden Tate taking snaps out ing a big 24-yard run around the right Floyd, made a critical catch on the of the Wildcat and lining up at running edge. sideline for an Irish first down on back behind Crist. "It was fun and exciting to know the third and 14. 
"[Crist] managed the game very team is depending on me," Tate said. "All of us have to step up to the best well," Weis said. "He came in to a tight "It's something I look forward to." of our abilities and just perform," game and did a great job of leading us Tate scored the second touchdown of Hughes said. to a 17-7lead." the quarter out of the Wildcat, taking 
The very first play with Crist under the snap and finding the right edge on Contact Michael Bryan at the center, the sophomore showed his a 16-yard run to the end zone. mbryan@nd.edu 
Four offensive starters battle injuries 
him to look as good as he was. We are going to try to get when the Irish defeated theBy ALEX BARKER He was politicking to play in through this week so we can Spartans 40-37 in a game that 
Assistant Sports Editor 
the game [Saturday] and I give him some rest next week also came down to the final think he could have played. during the bye week." minutes. 
Notre Dame's offensive pro­He 'II be ready to [practice] duction took a big hit against Tuesday so I don't think there Another streak gone Mixing it up Purdue as four starters sat out will be any hesitations." For the second straight Weis said some of the differ­much, if not all, of the game. Junior quarterback Jimmy week, the Irish were able to ent looks shown against Senior fullback James Clausen (turf toe) started the break a losing streak, this Purdue were to help compen­Aldridge (shoulder). junior game, but took only 24 snaps time a five-game road losing sate for the absence of tailback Armando Allen total after missing the second, streak against Big Ten oppo­Michael Floyd and Allen from (ankle) and sophomore wide third and part of the fourth nents. the offense. receiver Michael Floyd (collar­quarters. He looked to be hob­'This was a huge win for us, "We put in a lot of stuff this bone) each missed Saturday's bling for much of the game especially on the road," week, and a lot was injury game. While Aldridge and due to the injury he suffered Rudolph said. "We don't want related," Weis said. "You're Floyd look to be out for an against Michigan State. that label on us as a team that going into a game after losing extended period of time, "[Clausen's] toe is a lot bet­can't go on the road and win Michael where people could Allen's injury doesn't seem to ter today that it was last week games. To pull this one out is roll to Golden, what's one way be too serious. at this time," Weis said. "Last huge for us confidence wise." you can compensate for that? 
"l think Armando surprised week it was really swollen. The last time Notre Dame Put him in the backfield." me how close he looked dur­He's been in a boot for a few knocked off a Big Ten oppo­ing pregame," Weis said days, but today he's not in a nent on the road eame against Contact Alex Barker at Sunday. "I wasn't expecting boot and the swelling is down. Michigan State Sept. 23, 2006 abarker 1 @nd.edu 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd 4th  Total  
Notre Dame  3  14  0  7  24  
Purdue  7  0  0  14  21  
First quarter  

Purdue 7, Notre Dame 0 
Aaron Valentin 36-yd pass from Joey Elliot 
(Carson Wiggs kick) with 11:53 remaining. 
Drive: 8 plays, 80 yards, 3:07 elapsed. 
Purdue 7, Notre Dame 3 
Nick Tausch 34-yd field goal with 2:23 remain­ing. Drive: 10 plays, 60 yards, 3:57 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 10, Purdue 7 
Robert Hughes 2-yd run (Tausch kick) with 
10:43 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 73 yards, 4:07 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 17, Purdue 7 
Golden Tate 14-yd run with 4:43 remaining. 
Drive: 7 plays, 62 yards, 3:49 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Purdue 14 
Keith Smith 3-yd pass from Elliot (Wiggs kick) with 13:41 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 59 yards, 3:21 elapsed. 
Purdue 21, Notre Dame 17 
Jaycen Taylor 38-yd pass from Elliot (Wiggs kick) with 3:41 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 69 yards, 2:15 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 24, Purdue 21 
Kyle Rudolph 2-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen 
(Tausch kick) with 0:25 remaining. Drive: 12 
plays, 72 yards, 3:16 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

l'~D 
rushing yards 
:·,_: j ) 
passing yards 
, j I ' 

) 
-'·I'. 

Pur 2H7 
time of possession 
. I 
l 
Pur 25:.15 

passing 
rushing 

Hughes  15-68  Bolden  17-75  
Tate  9-57  Smith  1-6  
Riddick  1-24  Taylor  2-9  
Gray  9-27  Valentin  1-1  
Crist  4-16  

receiving 

Tate  5-57  Smith  11-136  
Rudolph  4-52  Adams  4-26  
Kamara  3-20  Carlos  2-27  
Hughes  3-9  Taylor  1-38  
Gray  2-42  Valentin  1-36  
Parris  1-15  Adams  1-11  
Evans  1-12  Smith  1-9  
Burger  1-9  Bolden  1-6  


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 28, 2009 

A narrow-escape 

A week after Notre Dame narrowly avoided its second straight heartbreaker by holding off Michigan State, the Irish found out how it feels to be on the 
other side of a last-minute comeback. A hobbled Jimmy Oausen delivered a gutsy performance in leading a banged-up offense down the field, and the 12 play, 72-yard drive ended with a fourth-and-goal touchdown pass to tight end 
Kyle Rudolph. This carne immediately after Purdue took the lead on a 38-yard touchdown pass from Joey Elliott to a wide-open Jaycen Taylor that exploited a broken Irish coverage with less than four minutes to play. The Irish led 17-7 at the half, but with Oausen out and Dayne Crist in, the offense 
failed to score in the second half until that final drive. With featured back Armando Allen out with an ankle injury, the Irish used Robert Hughes, Jonas Gray, Theo Riddick and even star wide receiver Golden Tate as tailbacks, with Hughes scoring from two yards out and Tate scoring on a 14-yard run out of the Wildcat formation to give the Irish a second-quarter lead. 


Clockwise from top: quarterback Jimmy Clausen reacts after throwing the game-winning touchdown; Clausen celebrates with his family following the win; senior comerback Darrin Walls runs off the field after an interception; senior offensive lineman Eric Olsen makes a statement; senior linebacker Toryan Smith and sophomore Robert Blanton take down a Purdue receiver. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Monday, September 28, 2009 
page 13 

By ANDY SEROFF Scene Writer 

First, we had "Guitar Hero," against-all-odds success story that brought silly plastic guitars into Living rooms nationwide, in Game of the Year style. Along came "Rock Band," which brought the rest of the fake plastic rock instru­ments into the fake plastic tour bus. The latest installment of a cover band's virtual trip to the top is "Guitar Hero 5," the long-overdue title that finally leaves little to be desired. 
As with all of the rock band rhythm games, "Guitar Hero 5" has Career Mode, where you start a band and progress from the dive bars of the country to sold-out amphitheaters full of cheering fans. Unlike its counterpart "Rock Band" (and "Rock Band 2"), bands don't earn money and fans at their per­formances, instead unlocking the next songs and stages, as well as customizable content for the char­acters and their instruments. 
One of the huge improvements of this installment is the character management system. The options for your character are endless ­unlike previous editions, where you got your pick between various stereotypical rocker avatars, almost every single aspect of your person is customizable. All aspects of the face can be changed, from eye color to nostril size. You can make a flawless glam star or a horrendous sewer­lurker. Once you've settled on a face, you go on to body fea­tures, clothes, silly accessories, instru­ments (fully customiz­able guitars, bases, drum sets, and micro­phones) and even logos for your character as well as your band. While it's great to have control over all the details, you can easily get car­ried away and end up spending your time playing dress-up. 
Another valuable addi­

tion to the game play is the 
challenges 
feature, 
Guitar Hero 5 
of popular
which is an 
music, so

in-song task 
to accom­p I i s h , resulting in a reward of extra con­tent. These challenges 
are general­ly for one instrument, having to do with the particular nuance of the song. For example, in tremolo-filled "In My Place" by Coldplay, the challenge is for the gui­tarist to use the controller's tremolo fea­ture as much as possibh-1 throughout, as 
the 

0 0 0 0 0 

opposed to "Fame" by David Bowie, 
which is a challenge for the vocalist to 
"nail the descending Fames at the end of 
the song." This gives the already-chal­
lenging game more depth and another aspect to play for. An example of the game fmding its audience is the new Party Mode. While this mode might've been more valuable several years ago when the game was at its peak in popularity, it still is an excellent renovation. When activated, the mode picks a song on the sound­track at random, and players can jump in and out at will, without inter­rupting other musicians. In addition to streamlining the game for a better party atmosphere, players can switch the song, the difficulty level and their instrument (guitar to bass and vice versa) all within one menu, without any repetitive character and venue selection screens. The cooperative play is the most important facet of the title, but what happens when the lead guitarist calls out the bassist for botching the bridge of "All Along the Watchtowers?" Fake instruments or not, this kind of conflict can only be settled through a rock-off. "Guitar Hero 5" has six different modes where players can battle online or offline to settle the score once and for all. Each mode has a different set of ruies, including your standard face­off (highest score wins), the more challenging momentum (where the better a player does, the higher the difficulty rises), and the dramatic elimination (the lowest player is dropped after every 30 seconds, until only one is left). The latest install­ment of the revolu­tionary Guitar Hero franchise is a winner. It finally feels like a smooth, satisfying expe­rience, complete with excellent graphics, easi­ly navigable menus and clear playabili­ty, while adding so many great features, like a song creator, and an in-game downloadable con­tent store. The sound­track is massive and touches on all corners 

even the pickiest of music con­noisseurs should find plenty of music to 


t h e i r approval. If you're thinking about getting back into the genre, and aren't the biggest Beatles fan, this is the game for you. 
Contact Andy Seroff at aseroff@nd.edu 
The Informant: 
Not So Corny H urn or 
By CORNELIUS ROGERS Scene Writer 
Steven Soderbergh is one of the few Hollywood directors whose films walk the thin line between superstar blockbusters and artistic independent films. His latest film, "The Informant!" is no exception. In it, he tells a tale of corporate crime that is slightly comedic, shockingly tragic, and simply confusing. 
After Soderbergh's success with his Ocean's trilogy ("Ocean's Eleven," "Ocean's Twelve," "Ocean's Thirteen") he has teamed up with Matt Damon, an Ocean's alum. Damon plays Mark Whitacre, an employee of A.D.M., a corn processing plant, who turns corporate whistleblower. Screenwriter Scott Z. Burns ("The Bourne Ultimatum") adapts the screenplay from a book of the same name, written by journalist Kurt Eichenwald. The events that take place onscreen are based on a true story, but just how many liberties have been taken with it are anybody's guess. 
Damon gives a very convincing perform­ance as the protagonist of the film. In addition to packing on several pounds for the role, Damon's acting captures the many shades of Whitacre's character ­nerd, secret agent and pathological liar. 
While the other actors in the movie are not big time stars like Damon, viewers will be happy to see some television comedy stars on the silver screen. Joel McHale, of "The Soup" fame, and Tony Hale, "Arrested Development's" Buster, give decent performances. Other than that the rest of the characters in the story lack any emotional depth and appear two-dimen­sional. 
By far the film's greatest strength is its cinematography. Soderbergh has an eye for softly lit sets combined with clever camera shots. One shot begins upside down then flips 180 degrees right side up as a red Porsche zooms by. Supplementing the visual eye candy is a stellar 60s sound­ing soundtrack. 

While the visual aesthetics are easy on the eyes, the storyline is not so easy on the average viewer's brain. The movie starts out with a simple enough premise -Whitacre agreeing to wear a wire for the FBI to provide information to bring his company down. But then the premise snowballs as Whitacre has not been upfront with everyone. The audience is left to discover who is really telling the truth. 
What makes the story even more depressing is that it's non-fiction. It is one thing to watch a fictitious movie company engage in a global price-fixing scheme to swindle billions of dollars. It is another to remember this actually happened. As the end credits roll on the screen, viewers come to the depressing realization that the crooks behind the corporate scheme at 
A.D.M. were only given three years in a white-collar prison. Worst of all, the chief architect of this scheme who embezzled millions of dollars was only given nine years in prison, and went on to become the president of another company. 
One is not sure what Steven Soderbergh is trying to say about corporate crime. Is it comedic? Is it disgusting? Perhaps the intention of the film is to be deliberately ambiguous. All in all, "The Informant!" delivers something too serious to be labeled a comedy and not straightforward enough to be labeled a drama, leaving it out to dry in no man's land. 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogers 1 @nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 28, 2009 
NFL 

Packers, Rodgers give Rams 13th straight loss 
Green Bay victorious in first road game of the season; Rookie Sanchez helps Jets to remain undefeated 
ried 27 times for 117 yards and 
Associated Press 

had five catches for 46 yards. 
ST. LOUIS -Aaron Rodgers Bulger was 3 for 4 for 23 stayed on his feet. The St. Louis yards before suffering the Rams went down again. bruise on a sack late in the first 
Rodgers threw two touch­quarter. down passes and ran for anoth­Sloppy play put the Rams in er Sunday, and the Green Bay an early hole, with Green Bay's Packers sent the Rams to their Mason Crosby kicking first­13th straight loss -now the quarter field goals of 48, 38 longest streak in the NFL -and 25 yards. The first was set with a 36-17 victory. up by a blocked field goal, the 
Rodgers was 13 for 2 3 for second by Aaron Kampman's 269 yards and hit on three long sack of Bulger at the St. Louis passes in the first road game of 15 -apparently the play on the season for Green Bay (2-1). which Bulger was hurt -and 
After being sacked a league­the third on Jackson's fumble high 10 times in the first two at the St. Louis 11 on the first games and playing behind a play of the next possession. patchwork offensive line, The Packers made it 16-0 in Rodgers was sacked just twice, the second quarter, the key both times in the first quarter play Rodgers' long pass to by Leonard Little. Driver to the St. Louis 30. 
"They really gave me some Fullback John Kuhn scored time," Rodgers said of his line­three plays later on a 1-yard men. "I was able to move in the run. pocket." Boller replaced Bulger and 
The Rams (0-3) have lost 30 gave life to the Rams, who had of 35 since the start of the 2007 scored just seven points in the season. With Detroit's 19-14 previous two games. He threw win over Washington ending second-quarter touchdown the Lions' 19-game kid, St. passes of 16 and 19 yards to Louis' losing streak is now the backup tight end Daniel Fells. longest. Sandwiched between those 
Rodgers and Greg Jennings scores was another Green Bay hooked up on passes of 50 and touchdown on a 21-yard pass 53 yards that set up touch­from Rodgers to Driver, set up downs for Green Bay. Rodgers by a 50-yard pass to Jennings. had a 46-yard pass to Donald The Rams got within six on little bit of a slump," nose tack­After Chris Hope picked off but threw two interceptions. Driver that set up another Josh Brown's 53-yard third le Kris Jenkins said. "It was Sanchez, the Titans got the ball "It's frustrating," Collins said. score, and he scored on a 4-quarter field goal, but Rodgers just one of those things where back with a chance to tie. Five "By no means can we start yard run. and Jennings combined for a at that point, we understood we plays later, Harris stepped in pointing fingers and start push­
"It's the big plays on defense 53-yard pass play early in the had to rally and I think we front of a pass intended for ing panic buttons. We've just that kill you and the turnovers fourth quarter, and Rodgers showed everybody that we Alge Crumpler to squash the got to stay together and keep -we didn't get any take­ran untouched from the 4 four were going to still get it togeth­drive. believing in what we are doing aways," Rams coach Steve plays later to make it 29-17. er." The Jets couldn't put it away, and we'll get it turned around." Spagnuolo said after his first "That is what good teams do They sure did, shutting down though, going four-and-out Johnson had 97 yards on 22 home game since taking over when they are challenged, they the Titans with the game on the after a holding penalty. But, the carries a week after he set a as coach. respond and we were able to line-twice. defense -and another loud career high with 197 yards 
Jennings' two catches were do that today," Kampman said. Sanchez became the first Meadowlands crowd -was rushing. all he had, but they combined After an interception, Green rookie quarterback to start a there again to bail out New New York took a 21-17 lead for a 103 yards. Driver had Bay scored on Rodgers' 10-yard season and win in his first York. after Ryan Mouton muffed a four catches for 95 yards and a pass to Kuhn late in the fourth three games, helping the Jets to "For anybody out there who punt and the ball was recov­touchdown. Ryan Grant carried quarter. the fourth 3-0 start in franchise thinks that this is a gimmick ered by Larry Izzo. Four plays 26 times for 99 yards. history. Rex Ryan also joined AI defense and can't play smash­later, Sanchez found Cotchery 
"Big plays equal points in this Jets 24, Titans 17 Groh (2000) as the only Jets mouth," linebacker Bart Scott in the front of the end zone for league," Packers coach Mike EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -coaches to win their first three said, "how dare you." a 6-yard touchdown. McCarthy said. "We say it every The New York Jets' defense games. After a 12-yard run by Chris Jay Feely added a 30-yard week. It was evident today. was far from perfect for most of ''I'd like to say that this is Johnson and an incompletion, field goal to make it 24-17 with 
"We have the ability to play the game. exactly what I predicted, but the Titans had a false start. 11:36 remaining. that way." Then came the fourth quar­we played three outstanding Harris then sacked Collins for The Jets took a quick lead, 
Rodgers said the Packers took ter, and David Harris and his football teams," Ryan said. an 8-yard loss to push scoring touchdowns on their advantage of man-to-man cov­stingy teammates were back to "We're 3-0 right here. Maybe Tennessee back to its 33. first two possessions, including erage on Jennings and Driver. being dominant. that says something about us." Collins then misfired on his last an impressive run by Sanchez. 
"If they are in press coverage Harris had an interception New York's defense, which two pass attempts to seal it for Facing third-and-1 0 from the on Driver and Jennings, we're and a big sack on Tennessee's came in ranked No. 1, allowed the Jets. 14, Sanchez took off and took a going to take our shots," he last two drives, and Mark its first touchdowns of the sea­"He made two great plays," hard shot from Michael Griffin, said. "I was able to put the ball Sanchez threw two touchdown son. But the Jets turned up the cornerback Darrelle Hevis said but pushed through into the in the spot." passes and bulldozed his way in pressure in the fourth quarter of Harris. "He needs to get end zone. 
Kyle Boller, who played three for another as the Jets stayed and stopped Kerry Collins, who more credit for his play." "That felt pretty good," quarters after Marc Bulger undefeated by holding on for a was 0 for his last 13 as the Sanchez finished 17 of 30 for Sanchez said with a grin. "That bruised his shoulder, was 16 for 24-17 victory over the Titans Titans fell to 0-3. 171 yards and TO tosses to was a big-time hit on the goal 31 for 164 yards, two touch­on Sunday. "No panic stage, nothing," Jerricho Cotchery and Ben line." downs and an interception for "They kind of got the momen­Titans coach Jeff Fisher said. Hartsock. Collins was 15 of 37 The ball came out, but after it St. Louis. Steven Jackson car-tum on their side and we hit a "We're going to keep working." for 170 yards and a touchdown, crossed the goal line. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2009 Fall Season -The Stanley Clark School, a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $37 per game to licensed refer­ees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at 574-291­4200. 
FoR RENT 
Home for rent football weekends. Walk to stadium, sleeps 6-10. williamckelly@gmail.com 
TICKETS 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964. 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http:1/csap.nd. edu UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
There is absolutely nothing wrong with watching a movie by yourself. Especially if that movie is Dr. Strangelove. 

Jules: Well, if you like burgers give 'em a try sometime. I can~ usually get 'em myself because my girl­friend's a vegitarian which pretty much makes me a vegitarian. But I do love the taste of a good burger. Mm-mm-mm. You know what they call a Quarter Pounder with cheese in France? Brett: No. Jules: Tell 'em, Vincent. Vincent: A Royale with cheese. Jules: A Royale with cheese! You know why they call it that? Brett: Because of the metric sys-tern? Jules: Check out the big brain on Brett The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the iniquities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men. Blessed is he, who in the name of charity and good will, shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness, for he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who would attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. And you will know my name is the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon thee. 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Monday, September 28, 2009 
page 15 
NFL 

Associated Press College Football Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida (55) 1 2 Texas (1) 2 3 Alabama (4) 3 4 LSU 7 5 Boise State 8 6 Virginia Tech 11 7 usc 12 8 Oklahoma 10 9 Ohio State 13 10 Cincinnati 14 11 TCU 15 12 Houston 17 13 Iowa RV 14 Oklahoma State 16 15 Penn State 5 16 Oregon RV 11 Miami (Fl) 9 18 Kansas 20 19 Georgia 21 20 Brigham Young 19 21 Mississippi 4 22 Michigan 23 23 Nebraska 25 24 California 6 25 Georgia Tech RV 
USA Today Coaches Poll College Football 
team previous 
1 Florida (58) 1 2 Texas {1) 2 3 Alabama 3 4 LSU 7 5 Boise State 8 6 Virginia Tech 12 7 usc 10 8 Oklahoma 9 9 Ohio State 11 10 TCU 14 11 Cincinnati 15 12 Oklahoma State 16 13 Penn State 4 14 Georgia 17 15 Houston 23 16 Kansas 19 17 Iowa RV 18 Mississippi 5 19 California 6 20 Michigan 22 21 Miami {Fl) 13 22 Brigham Young 20 23 Missouri 21 24 Nebraska 24 25 Oregon RV 
AVCA Coaches Poll Women's Volleyball Top 10 
team  previous  
1  Penn State {50}  1  
2  Texas (7)  2  
3  Washington (3)  3  
4  Hawaii  4  
5  Florida  5  
6  Nebraska  8  
7  Oregon  12  
8  Michigan  6  
9  Minnesota  9  
10  Stanford  11  

around the dial 
NFL 
Panthers at Cowboys 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 

World Extreme Cagefighting 
Torres vs. Bowles 8 p.m., Versus 


Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -The end was as good as the Vikings could have imagined: Brett Favre zipped a pass to a little­used reserve wide receiver in the back of the end zone in the final seconds for a classic Favre finish. 
Greg Lewis leaped for a 32­yard touchdown catch with 2 seconds left while a flattened Favre watched from his stom­ach, and the VIkings stunned the San Francisco 49ers 27-24 on Sunday to stay unbeaten. 
In his first real home game with his new team, Favre over­came a bunch of bad throws and a few more hard hits to his almost-40-year-old body and found that winning touch again. 
"It's hard to even recall all of 'em. This one was pretty spe­cial," said Favre, who now has 42 comebacks from fourth­quarter deficits or ties on his career record. 
An official review confirmed Lewis's feet were inbounds, sending the sellout crowd into a frenzy. 
"''ve had some hard losses. This is just another one for the list," 49ers cornerback Nate Oements said. "We just have to keep chopping away." 
The first five series of the second half: Three punts, Favre's first interception, and a turnover on downs. The VIkings (3-0), who gained only 85 yards on Adrian Peterson's 19 carries, still had three time­outs left and were able to force a punt. They got the ball back 
IN BRIEF 

Lions snap 19-game losing
streak in win over 'Skins 
DETROIT -Matthew Stafford held his head down on the bench for the final snap. Dominic Raiola couldn't watch, either, fearing a 20th loss in a row and tOOth set­back of his nine-season career. 
When Detroit's leaders looked up and saw Washington was out oftime, they saw what they were hoping to see Sunday. 
lions 19, Redskins 14. 
Believe it. 
Finally. 

"We not only got the monkey off our back, we got King Kong off our back," said lions owner William Oay Ford. ''I'm hop­ing that this gets us over that hump and gives us a winning attitude." 
Detroit (1-2) hadn't won since Dec. 23, 2007 and its 19-game skid matched the second longest in NFL history. The lions no longer have to hear about Tampa Bay's record 26-game losing streak. 
Raiola blew kisses to the crowd of 40,896 that was the smallest at Ford Field and the fewest to watch a lions home game in 20 years after time expired with Washington stalled at the Detroit 23. 
at their 20 with 89 seconds remaining. 
"I didn't say a whole lot," Favre said. "I knew what I was thinking: We blew our chances." 
Well, not quite all ofthem. 
The last play began with 12 seconds left, and Favre stepped forward in the pocket and slid to the right by design to buy time for his receivers to move in position. Instead of throwing a ball up for grabs, he figured he could get close enough to the line of scrimmage to fire a line drive that would be tougher to defend. 
Lewis watched the quarter­back's eyes, and broke the other way-Favre said he did­n't even know who was run­ning across the end zone -to find room near the right cor­ner. 
He caught his first pass from Favre, who completed six throws on that drive, and looked forward to the next one. 
"The offensive line was fired up. Adrian was fired up, and the receivers were fired up. And Brett tell right in. He was fired up, too, like: 'We're going to get this done,"' Lewis said. "And that's the atti­tude that we took out there on the field." 
That's exactly why the Vikings wanted to sign Favre so badly. 
Defensive end Jared Allen was asked what he thought when the offense set up for the final posses­sion. 
"Be Brett. One time. Just be Brett," Allen said. 
Mickelson wins PGA Tour 
Championship over Tiuer 
ATLANTA -Phil Mickelson baathe smaller check and felt like the biggest win­ner. Tiger Woods was congratulated after he finished second in the Tour Championship. 
Sunday was the eighth time that golfs two biggest stars finished 1-2 in a tourna­ment. 
Never have they shared the spotlight, each going home with a trophy that was meaningful in its own way. 
Mickelson capped off a tumultuous sum­mer at home with a spectacular rally at East Lake, closing with a 5-under 65 to go from four shots behind to a three-shot vic­tory, his first since his wife and mother were diagnosed with breast cancer in the spring. 
Woods made two late birdies, not enough to put any heat on Mickelson, but to secure the FedEx Cup and il<> $10 mil­lion bonus. It finished a season in which he won six times and was no worse than sec­ond in nine of his 17 tournaments. 

Yankees clinch AL East,
homefield advantaf!e 
NEW YORK -Andy Pettitte and the New York Yankees wrapped up the AL East title and home-field advantage throughout the postseason with a neat bow, beating the Boston Red Sox 4-2 Sunday for their 1 OOth win ofthe year. 
Hideki Matsui's go-ahead single in the sixth inning energized the damp fans and put them on notice that a party was com­ing. The first real celebration at the new Yankee Stadium began with a most famil­iar scene -Mariano Rivera on the mound, closing out another clinching vic­tory. 
"This one is special. We haven't been there," Rivera said, pausing to smile in a champagne-soaked clubhouse, "since last year." 
Catcher Jose Molina leaped up from behind the plate even before Rivera had fielded Jacoby Ellsbury's soft comcbaeker for the final out. The Yankees swarmed Rivera on the first-base side of the mound while players in the bullpen streamed in. 
.-----------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 28, 2009 
NFL 

Surprising Broncos defeat division rival Raiders 
Palmer, Bengals defeat Steelers for the first time in nearly a decade; Undefeated Giants shutout Tampa Bay 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Kyle Orton, Josh McDaniels and a newfound dominant defense have quieted all the talk of off­season disfunction in Denver with a 3-0 start. 
Orton threw a touchdown pass to Brandon Marshall, the defense kept a second straight opponent out of the end zone and the Broncos overwhelmed the Oakland Raiders 23-3 Sunday. 
"We're happy with where we're at, 3-0," Orton said. "We've been improving every single week." 
The performance to start the season is a far cry from the off­season. McDaniels caused an immediate stir when he was hired to replace the fired Mike Shanahan as coach in Denver last offseason. He alienated Pro Bowl quarterback Jay Cutler before trading him to Chicago for Orton, then suspended Marshall in the preseason. 
But once the season started, things couldn't have gone much better for the Broncos. They capitalized on a lucky bounce to win the opener at Cincinnati and followed that with convinc­ing wins over Cleveland and Oakland (1-2). 
"There's no vindication because there's nothing to be vindicated about," McDaniels said. 
The schedule gets consider­ably tougher starting next week against Dallas, but the Broncos have to be pleased with where they stand now. 
Rookie Knowshon Moreno ran for 90 yards and a score and Correll Buckhalter added 108 yards on 14 carries for the Broncos. Matt Prater added three field goals as Denver won its AFC West opener for a 10th straight year. 
Orton again played mistake­free football, going 13 for 23 for 157 yards. He has not thrown an interception in three games, quite a change from the flashier Cutler, who made more big plays last season but also more mistakes with 18 interceptions. 
"I thought it was a clean game," Orton said. "We got off to a good start, no turnovers again and we made plays in the passing game when we needed to. That's kind of the formula we wanted to take into this week and we executed it." 

The Broncos have committed just one offensive turnover all season, and even that didn't end up hurting them. Two plays after Buckhalter fumbled deep in Denver territory, Darren McFadden gave it right back to Denver with a fumble of his own. 
That recovery by Brian Dawkins was just one of many big plays from coordinator Mike Nolan's defense. The Broncos have allowed just 16 points all season, getting six sacks from Elvis Dumervil the past two weeks. 
The Raiders offense looked inept for a second straight week and this time the defense could­n't keep Oakland in the game long enough for JaMarcus Russell to steal one at the end, as he did last week in Kansas City. 
The Raiders were held to 137 yards, their second straight week with less than 200 yards of offense. This is just the third time since the start of the 1993 season that Oakland has put together back-to-hack games like that, with the other two coming in 2006. 

"There's some glaring prob­lems that need to be fixed, in all phases of the game," Pro Bowl cornerback Nnamdi Asomugha said. "So I don't think we have quite a read on who we are. And that's concerning, because at this point you want to know what type of team you are." 
Russell threw two first-quar­ter interceptions and was the target of boos all afternoon from the frustrated Raiders fans who bothered to show up. The attendance was 45,602 and the game was blacked out local­ly. 
Russell, who entered the game completing 35.2 percent of his passes, finished 12 for 21 for 61 yards, with only 1 pass­ing yard in the second half. 
"I know that the guys in my locker room are behind me," Russell said. "When the fans get to that, it's kind of where they seem like they're fed up. But again, until you come out and play like I know we should and get back on track it will be a different story." 
The Broncos dominated the first half but only had a 13-3 lead to show for it. LaMont Jordan was stopped on a fourth-and-goal from the 1 to thwart their first drive and Denver had to settle for a field goal after driving inside the 5 late in the half. 
The other 10 points were set up by interceptions thrown by Russell. He was picked off by Renaldo Hill following the goal­line stand when Darrius Heyward-Bey fell as his feet got caught up with a defender. That set up the 2-yard TD pass to Marshall. The second intercep­tion by Andre Goodwin set up a 48-yard field goal by Prater. 
Benglas 23, Steelers 20 
CINCINNATI -Sam Cooke's song "A Change is Gonna Come" played on a continuous loop in the Cincinnati Bengals' locker room, providing the musical score for a ground­breaking win. 
In five frenetic minutes, the Bengals earned some legitima­cy and won back their town. 
Carson Palmer's 4-yard touchdown pass to Andre Caldwell with 14 seconds left provided a 23-20 win Sunday that ended-the Pittsburgh Steelers' nearly decade-long domination in Cincinnati, one that appeared set to go on indefinitely until the final drive. 
"Priceless," offensive lineman Bobbie Williams said. "The past is the past. This is a new team and a new day." 
For once, it was their day. 
Pittsburgh (1-2) had won its last eight games on Cincinnati's home field. The last time the Bengals beat them at Paul Brown Stadium was 2001, when Chad Ochocinco was a rookie who rarely started and still went by the name of Johnson. 
Ochocinco doesn't remember much from that long-ago game. The Bengals (2-1) won't soon forget this one. 
The defending Super Bowl champs dominated most of the game but wasted chances to put the Bengals away. Jeff Heed missed another field goal, and Limas Sweed dropped a pass in the end zone, keeping it close to the end. 
"If we score touchdowns in the first half, it's not even a game," Steelers receiver Hines Ward said. "It's 24-0 or 24-3. It's not very good. You've got to put up seven points instead of 3s. That's how you finish a team off." 
Instead, the Bengals finished them off. 
Palmer led the Bengals on a 16-play, 71-yard drive against one of the league's best defens­es, repeatedly converting there­or-else throws. His 11-yarder to running back Brian Leonard on fourth-and-1 0 moved the ball to the 4. After a spike to stop the clock, Palmer found Caldwell open in the middle of the end zone. 
"We've got a quarterback who's comfortable at those points in the game," coach Marvin Lewis said. "HH's got a calm about him." 
It was reminiseent of Palmer's long touchdown drive at the end of the season opener against Denver, which the Broneos then salvaged with a tipped, 87-yard touehdown catch. This time, there would be no weirdness. 
Ben Roethlisberger's final, frantic heave was knoeked down, giving the Bengals a game they viewed as a ehanee to prove that they ean contend in the AFC North. 
"It's huge," defensive lineman Tank Johnson said. "This team is a very good football team. If we eliminate the immature mis­takes, the sky is the limit." 
Beating the Steelers at home was no small thing. Thousands of Steelers fans were sprinkled throughout the erowd of 64,538, waving their yellow towels almost nonstop as Pittsburgh dominated but repeatedly failed to take advan­tage of seoring ehanees. 
And, in the end, the defense failed to make a play to finish ofT the Bengals, reminiseent of the way Pittsburgh missed two seeond-half field goals in Chicago, then let the Bears pull out a 17-14 win on a field goal with 15 seeonds left. 
"We strive to be a great defense and make those plays," defensive end Brett Keisel said. "If we don't start making them, it's going to be a long year." 
When Roethlisberger and Santonio Holmes had a miseom­munieation on the third play of the seeond half -the quarter­baek made a quick throw, the receiver kept going -corner­back Johnathan Joseph inter­cepted and ran 30 yards for a touchdown that made it a game. 
Hoethlisberger was 22 of 31 for 276 yards, ineluding a 39­yard touehdown pass to Willie Parker and a 1-yard scoring sneak. He was saeked near midfield on a third-down play as Pittsburgh tried to protect a 20-15 lead, giving the Bengals one last chance with 5:14 to play. 
All they needed. 

"Indescribable," said Palmer, who was 20 of 37 for 183 yards. "The fans wanted it as much as we did, and it felt great to see those hands go up signaling a touehdown and hear them roar." 
The Steelers hadn't started 1­2 since 2006, the last time they were coming off a Super Bowl win. They opened 1/3 that sea­son and finished 8-8, missing out on the playoffs. With two straight last-minute losses, the Steelers are again finding out how tough it is to be a defend­ing champ. 
"We feel like we beat our­selves," Roethlisberger said. 
Giants 24, Buccaneers 0 

TAMPA, Fla. -Eli Manning and Co. are unbeaten, though there's still plenty of room for improvement. 
Reviving a dominant rushing attack offensively and stopping the run defensively were major priorities Sunday, and the New York Giants did both during a 24-0 rout of the winless Tampa Bay Buceaneers. 
A week after giving up 251 yards on the ground and need­ing a field goal as time expired to beat Dallas, the defending NFC East ehampions (3-0) pushed the sputtering Bucs (0­
3) around from start to finish. 
"We had a couple of objee­tives coming in here," eoach Tom Coughlin said after Manning threw for two touch­downs and Brandon Jacobs and Ahmad Bradshaw led a resur­gence of a powerful ground attaek that was absent the pre­vious two weeks. 
"We had a game in whieh we didn't play very well against the run, so we knew that we would be tested and we would have to rise up and do a better job there," Coughlin said. "We also knew we needed to rush the ball better than we had, so we did a pretty good job with that." 
Tampa Bay, which has lost seven straight dating to an 0-4 December that eost it a playoff berth last season, was out­gained 397 yards to 86 and did not have a first down until late in the third quarter. 
It was the Giants' first shutout since a 36-0 home victory over Washington in October 2005. They hadn't blanked an oppo­nent on the road since beating Philadelphia 23-0 in November 1983. 
"They beat us down," said Tampa Bay's first-year coach Raheem Morris, who's still looking for his first win. 
"We were beat by a grown­man team, a team we want to be like one day," the NFL's youngest head coach added. "They came in here and took it to us. Out-manned us, out­gunned us.... It wasn't even close." 
Manning completed 14 of 24 passes for 161 yards, following up on an impressive perform­ance in a dramatic 33-31 victo­ry at Dallas the previous week. He led a game-winning drive in the closing minutes, producing Lawrence Tynes' 37 -yard field goal as time expired. 
The New York star left this one after his 18-yard TD pass to Sinorice Moss put the Giants up 24-0 early in the fourth quarter. Backup David Carr and an injury-depleted defense fin­ished up, with New York perserving a shutout by stop­ping the Bucs on downs at the Giants' 5 with five minutes to go. 
"Our defense was very, very, very impressive," Jacobs said. "I knew they would come out with a chip on their shoulder." 
Manning also threw a 4-yard TD pass to Steve Smith in the second quarter, and Jacobs scored on a 6-yard run to com­plete an 80-yard drive on New York opening possession of the game. New York also had scor­ing marches of 72, 66 and 64 yards, and wound up dominat­ing time of possession 43 min­utes, 38 seconds to 16:22. 


3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Located Close to Notre Dame 
$300 Signing Bonus for 2010-2011 
L..se must be signed before October 10,2009 
Lease for only $350 per month, per student! 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
call {574} 234-2436 
Monday, September 28, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Jones-Drew's three scores lead Jags over Texans 
Jacksonville capitalizes on Houston's league-worst rush defense; Kolb, McCoy shine in Eagles victory 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON Maurice Jones-Drew carried the Jacksonville Jaguars to their first victory and trounced all over the good feelings the Houston Texans had after their big win last week. 
Jones-Drew had his first 100-yard game of the season and scored three touchdowns to lead the Jaguars over the mistake-prone Texans, 31-24 on Sunday. 
Jones-Drew scored the go­ahead touchdown on an 8­yard run early in the fourth quarter and finished with 119 yards rushing. 
"Each play we got better," Jones-Drew said. "Each time we got to the sideline we got better. We just kept believing in each other and that was the best thing about it ... they jumped out on us real quick. We just kept fighting back, fighting back. No one blinked." 
Jacksonville became the third straight team to run over Houston's NFL-worst run defense. The Texans allowed 190 yards to the Jets, 240 to the Titans and 184 on Sunday. 
"A loss is devastating regardless (but) especially so after what we did last week," Houston's Mario Williams said, referring to a 34-31 road win over the Tennessee Titans. 
Houston (1~2) had several chances to tie the game. The last came when Chris Brown 's goal line fumble was recov­ered by the Jaguars (1-2) in the end zone. The Texans challenged but Jacksonville kept the ball. 
"When you let down all your teammates, you can't put it into words," a dis­traught Brown said. 
The Texans had a touch­down nullified two plays ear­lier when Kevin Walter was called for offensive pass interference. 
The Jaguars were driving with a seven-point lead and 4 well, getting the ball coming out of the half, going down and getting a score there and letting them know that we were here, on a mission and that we had the resolve to be in a dogfight and win this thing." 
Schaub threw for 300 yards in the game and had three touchdowns in the.first half, but couldn't get anything going after halftime. 
He found Owen Daniels on an 2-yard reception for his third touchdown pass to put Houston ahead 21-17 at half­time. 
Houston kept that drive going with an 11-yard end around by Walter on fourth­and-1 from inside the 20. 
A week after Chris Johnson blew by Houston's defense for three touchdowns of more than 50 yards, Jones-Drew scored his first touchdown on a 61-yard run. The score put Jacksonville ahead 17-14 in the second quarter. 
"We're giving up some big, big plays and struggling to stop somebody," Houston coach Gary Kubiak said. 
Walter put Houston on top 14-10 with a 9-yard touch­down catch in the second quarter. It was his first action of the season after sitting out the first two games with a hamstring injury. 
Houston's Jacoby Jones scored for the second straight week on an 18-yard pass from Schaub that put the Texans up 7-3 in the first quarter. Jones lost his shoe on the catch before bounding over to his mother's front row seat behind the end zone for a hug. 
Houston rookie Brian Cushing tipped one pass and broke up another, but a late hit penalty late in the third quarter helped propel the drive that put the Jaguars up 31-24. 
Ernest Wilford looked to have scored on a 15-yard touchdown reception early in the second quarter. Kubiak challenged the call and after review, officials ruled that Wilford stepped out of bounds at the 2-yard line. 
Jacksonville didn't take long to put that score back on the board when David Garrard ran in for the touchdown on the next play to make it 1 0-7. Garrard finished 214 yards passing. 
An interception by Rashean Mathis on Houston's first drive led to a 52-yard field goal by Josh Scobee in the first quarter. 
Eagles 34, Chiefs 14 
Michael Vick was a super decoy. 
Getting significant contribu­tions from their youngsters and backups, the Philadelphia Eagles routed the Kansas City Chiefs 34-14 in Vick's return to the NFL on Sunday. 
The Eagles didn't need much from Vick and they got nothing from Donovan McNabb or Brian Westbrook , who both sat out with injuries. 
Kevin Kolb threw for 327 yards and two touchdowns, LeSean McCoy had 84 yards rushing and one TD, and DeSean Jackson and Brent Celek each had 100-plus yards receiving and one score for Philadelphia (2-1 ). 
Kolb became the first quar­terback to throw for 300 yards in his first two career starts. While he did most of the work, Vick got all the attention. 
Playing his first regular­season game since Dec. 31, 2006 -1,001 days ago -Vick ran once for 7 yards and threw two incomplete passes. 
"It's a different role, but it is what it is," Vick said. "It was a small look. We have so much in store for the future." 
Vick will have more chances to display the skills that earned him the Superman nickname back when he was a three-time Pro Bowl quar­terback with the Atlanta Falcons . For now, he's con­tent doing whatever it takes to help the Eagles win. 
"It's a different scenario. It's hard. I haven't been in this before," he said. "I tell myself to stay loose and be ready for whenever they call my number and play within the framework of the offense." 
McNabb missed his second straight game with a broken rib. Westbrook sat out with a sore ankle. It was no problem against the Chiefs (0-3). Kolb, a third-year pro, and McCoy, a rookie second-round pick, filled in nicely. 
"We recognized that Donovan and Westbrook were out," Kolb said. "It was an opportunity for us to prove why they drafted us. We focused on dominating them." 
Vick, who served 18 months in prison on a federal dog­fighting charge, didn't have to wait long to get on the field. He entered to a semi-standing ovation for the second play from scrimmage, was split wide as receiver and came around for a fake reverse. 
Overall, Vick got in for 11 plays. He lined up at receiver once, took the snap in shot­gun formation nine times and was directly under center once. Kolb was on the side­line for the 10 plays Vick was in at QB. 
Vick was expected to run Philadelphia's version of the wildcat offense, but McCoy took most of those snaps. 
With Vick on the field, the Eagles gained a net total of 30 yards. They got 390 with­out him. Or McNabb. Or Westbrook. 
"We wanted to gradually get him in and get him back to game speed and knock some rust off," Eagles coach Andy Reid said of Vick. 
Matt Cassel threw for 90 yards and two TDs for Kansas City. The Chiefs remained winless under new coach Todd Haley. 
"We have the talent to com­pete with anyone," Cassel said. "We just have· to elimi­nate the bad football and the penalties." 
Jackson finished with a career-high 149 yards receiv­ing, including a 64-yard TD. Celek had 104 yards on eight catches. 
The normally pass-happy Eagles were more balanced during their first two scoring drives. After Kolb connected with Jason Avant for a 10­yard gain on third-and-6, three straight running plays moved the ball to the Chiefs 5. 
Then Vick, who had a 7­yard run on his second snap, fired a pass out of bounds under heavy pressure and took a hard hit. McCoy took the next snap in the wildcat and ran in for his first career TD to give the Eagles a 7-0 lead. 
Kolb hit Jackson for 43 yards on the next possession to move the Eagles into Kansas City territory. Vick handed off to McCoy for an 11-yard run on his only play during the series. Kolb sneaked in from the 1 to put Philadelphia ahead 14-0. 
The Chiefs took advantage of good field position after the Eagles failed to convert a fourth-and-1 at Kansas City's 
44. With Vick watching from the sideline, Kolb rolled out and his pass was knocked down by Mike Vrabel . 
Cassel's 13-yard TD pass to Mark Bradley cut it to 14-7. 
But the Eagles answered on their first play after the kick­off. Jackson turned Kolb's short pass over the middle into a 64-yard TD to make it 21-7. Jackson dove into the end zone and appeared to land awkwardly on his gimpy groin as he did a half split, but he stayed in. 
Kolb zipped a 35-yard TD pass to Celek midway through the fourth quarter to put the game way out of reach. 
Kolb threw for 391 yards, two TDs and three intercep­tions in a 48-22 loss to New Orleans last week. Kolb com­pleted 24 of 34 passes and had a QB rating of 120.6 against the Chiefs. 
1/2 minutes left when Houston's Dunta Robinson forced a fumble by Mike Sims-Walker. Zac Diles recov­ered and the play was chal­lenged, but the ruling on the field stood and the Texans got the ball. 
The Jaguars forced Houston into a three and out after Clint Ingram tripped Matt Schaub for the sack with about six minutes left in the fourth quarter. Ingram jumped around after the hit while the normally stoic Jack Del Rio broke into a huge smile. 
Houston had a first down at the 17 but had to settle for a field goal that tied it at 24 in the third after Schaub's run on third down came up one yard short. 
J ac~on ville took the first drive of the second half 83 yards, capped by a 1-yard touchdown run by Jones­Drew to regain the lead, 24­21. 
Del Rio was impressed with his team's halftime adjust­ments. 
"They had kind of gone into the end of the first half there and taken some momentum," he saiq. "Our team responded 
ATHENS, GREECE 


INFORMATION MEETING 
********************************* 
Monday, September 28, 2009 5:30pm 207 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/-ois 


NASCAR 

Johnson wins In second Chase race 
Associated Press 

DOVER, Del. -Jimmie Johnson dominated again in · winning a crucial Chase race. 
It's become about as routine this• time of year on the sports calendar as the start of the NFL season or the baseball playoff stretch drive. If he keeps driving like this, NASCAR can expect another regular fixture in November: Johnson hoisting the series tro­phy and celebrating a champi­onship. 
Johnson thumped the compe­tition in the second Chase for the championship race, sweep­ing the season races at Dover International Speedway to accelerate his bid for an unprecedented fourth straight Sprint Cup title. 
''I'm pretty sure that dude is Superman," runner-up Mark Martin said. 
' He was pretty super on the
' ­
concrete in the No. 48 Chevrolet. If three champi­onships weren't enough to intimidate the rest of the Chase field, the way he won on Sunday should send another message: He's just really get­ting going on a fourth. · 
"As far as sending a mes­sage, I hope it does," Johnson said. "I hope people are wor­ried." 
Johnson cut Martin's points lead with the victory -his fourth of the year an·d 44th overall -in the second of 10 races in the Chase for the championship. 
"I've seen that dude up close and I see why he's so success­ful," said Martin, Johnson's Hendrick Motorsports team­mate. "He works harder at it than anybody else, I think, on the circuit." 
No winner of the second Dover race has ever gone on to win the Cup championship. If any driver can reverse that trend, it's Johnson. Much as he did in May, Johnson's No. 48 Chevrolet was out in front for the majority of the 400-mile race. 
"I certainly hope that our performance today scares some people and affects them in a way that benefits us," Johnson said. 
Chase drivers took nine of the first 11 spots. Martin fol­lowed last week's win at New Hampshire with a second-place finish. Juan Pablo· Montoya was fourth and Kurt Busch fifth. 
Matt Kenseth was the highest non-Chase driver at third. 
Martin holds a 10-point lead over Johnson heading into next week at Kansas Speedway. 
"This team is really on a roll right now," Martin said. 
Other Chase driver results saw Jeff Gordon finish sixth, Kasey Kahne was eighth, Tony Stewart ninth and Ryan Newman lOth. Carl Edwards was 11th, Greg ~iffle 13th, Brian Vickers 18th and Denny Hamlin 22nd. 
"It's just two races," Martin said. "I still say that there's 12 in and 12 can win. It might be a challenge for a couple of the ones toward the end of the back." 
Johnson, who tire-tested in August at Dover, won from the pole. He led 298 laps when he won at Dover in May and added another 271 on the 1­mile concrete track Sunday. Johnson won for the fifth time at Dover. 
"That's right boys, maximum points! Thank you!" Johnson said over the radio. 
Johnson and crew chief Chad Knaus also won their 15th Chase race. No one is better down the stretch and it's the main reason why the No. 48 team is going for its record fourth straight title. 
"Our team is pretty easily motivated," Knaus said. 
Easy to see why. Cale Yarborough is the only other driver to win three straight championships and Johnson can move past him with more winning performances like this one over the final eightraces. 
Johnson was so far in front, he had no idea Joe Gibbs Racing driver Joey Logano was involved in an early accident that saw his No. 20 barrel-roll eight times down the concrete and result in the race being red-flagged. It looked scary, but the teenage Logano walked away and was fine. 
"It just goes to show how safe these cars are," Logano said. 
Johnson, who won for the first time since July at Indianapolis; crushed Kenseth and the rest of the contenders off the double-file restarts and was never seriously chal­lenged. 
He's in great position, but he's still not in first. Even with the 10 bonus points for win­ning, Martin still holds a slim lead. 
The 50-year-old Martin is the sentimental favorite for his first Cup championship and he's in no rush to yield his spot atop the standings. His 1-2 fin­ish in the first two Chase races proved he'll be a major factor in the No.5. 
''I'm happy with the result," Martin said. "We just missed it a little bit." 
It's way too early in the Chase to rule out any driver as a contender for the champi­onship, but the Hendrick pow­erhouse sflre looks like it fields the teams to beat. 
"They're strong everywhere," Hamlin said. "There's no weak­ness to their race team at all." 
There not be a detectable weakness, but Biffle griped again that Johnson and Montoya had an unfair advan­tage because they were pieked for the tire test. Biffle wanted all 10 Chase drivers to have ii shot at testing, or none of them. 
"Look at the guys that didn't tire test. We ran terrible," Biffle said. "It was a complete­ly different tire (from May). It had us off our game right when we unloaded off the truck." 
Johnson's tip to the rest of the field? Bring on the com­plaints. 
"I hope people are talking about the fact that we tire test­ed and it's wrong," Johnson said. "All these people can get wound up about stuff that real­ly doesn't matter. We'll keep our heads down, keep our blinders on and we'll go to work." 
And maybe start clearing another spot in the trophy case. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Tebow-discharged after concussion 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -Florida quarterback Tim Tebow was out of the hospital and back home Sunday, recovering from the concussion he sustained during the Gators' 41-7 victory at Kentucky. 
Tebow was released from the University Medical Center in Lexington, Ky., Sunday morn­ing. lie was held for precau­tionary reasons. Coach Urban Meyer spent the night in the hospital with Tebow. 
"Tim is doing fine this morn­ing," Meyer said. "His CT scans came back and indicated that Tim suffered a concussion. Our medieal and athletic training staff will continue to monitor him to determine how much rest and recovery he needs. We will have additional information and updates this week." 
Tebow flew back to Gainesville with his family and Meyer Sunday afternoon. 
The top-ranked Gators (4-0) are off next week, tlwn play at LSU on Oct. 10. It might be sev­eral days, maybe longer, before Tebow's status becomes clearer for what could be the toughest game on the defending national champions' sehedule. 
It would be even tougher without Tebow, the 2007 Heisman Trophy winner and the heart and soul of the Gators. 
But his return homn was wel­come news for Florida players, coaches and fans who watched Tebow lay motionless on the field at Commonwealth Stadium. 
"Everyone is concerned about Tim, and our thoughts and our prayers are with him and his family," said associate head coach and defensive coordina­tor Charlie Strong, who filled in for Meyer on the head coach's television show Sunday. 

The Gators were leading 31-7 in the third quarter and were driving deep in Kentucky terri­tory when defensive end Taylor Wyndham came unblocked off the right end and sacked Tebow. As Tebow fell back-· ward, his helmet struGk team­mate Marcus Gilbert's leg, vio­lently bending his neck for­ward. 
Teammates and trainers rushed to Tebow's side, but sev­eral minutes passed before the quarterback sat up with help and then slowly made his way off the field. Florida's mndical staff attended to him on the bnnr:h, and his parents came down from the stands to join him. 
lie started vomiting-a com­mon symptom of concussions ­and was carted off the field. About a dozen Gators fans showed up at the hospital after the game, standing outside in the rain and wishing the best for Tebow. 
The injury ended what had been another impressive per­formance from the senior. lie ran for 123 yards and two touchdowns, and threw for 1 03 yards and a score-numbers that seemed unimportant the seeond he hit the turf. 
Backup John Brantley replaced Tebow and completed 4 of 6 passns for 30 yards, including an 8-yard TD pass to Riley Cooper in tlw fourth. 
If Tebow isn't able to play against the Tigers, Brantley 
would make his l'irst career start. 
The 6-foot-3 sophomore from Ocala has completed 73 percent of his passes for 232 yards, with four touchdowns and one interception, this season. Although Brantley has played mostly in mop-up duty, Meyer's plan all along was to get him meaningful snaps every game. 
Now, they could really count. The Gators say they have noth­ing but confidence in Brantley. 
"If you look at our future, it's going to be John Brantley," Strong said. "He does a great job. He knows how to manage this offense." 
Certainly, the offense would change under Brantley. The Gators, second in the nation in rushing (307.5 yards a game), would probably become more of a passing team. Of course, they need to get their receivers healthy to make that happen. Deonte Thompson (hamstring) has missed the last two games, and Cooper was one of four starters who took a separate plane to Lexington because of respiratory and congestion issues. 
Tebow was on that flight too. So his day started and ended with health concerns. 
If Tebow wasn't feeling well, it didn't show. The Gators scored 31 points in the first quarter and had the game in hand when Tebow got knocked out. 
Meyer probably will face questions about why he still had his superstar on the field in a lopsided game, especially considering Tebow had missed two days of practice because of a respiratory illness. 

German Language Study Abroad Programs 
Information Meeting 
September 28,2009 
6:00 p.m. 118 DeBartolo Hall 
ApJ)Iication Deadline is November 15, 2009 W\\'w.nd.edu/--ois 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, Monday, September 28, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Shaq gets party in Cleveland 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND --Shaq got in one last party before train­ing camp. 
Shaquille O'Neal, the big man Cleveland is counting on to deliver this champi­onship-starved city a title, was welcomed to town Sunday with a star-studded party that included sports celebrities and Average Joes looking to rub elbows with them. 
Fashionably late, O'Neal arrived in an SUV at 11:15 
p.m. as fans, one of them holding a life-size cardboard cutout of O'Neal in an Orlando Magic uniform, cheered on the sidewalks and took pictures of the town's newest superstar, who will be teammates with reigning league MVP LeBron James(notes). 
O'Neal has had a good first impression of Cleveland. 
"It's a nice town," he said. "The entertainment is already here. Everything is here. The Browns are here, LeBron is here and now I'm here." 
The 37-year-old O'Neal was acquired by the Cavaliers in June, shortly after the team was eliminat­ed by Orlando in the Eastern 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, September 28, 2009 
6:00 PM 217 DeBartolo Hall 
Conference playoffs. The Cavs, who open camp Monday, feel he is the miss­ing piece to help James win 
his  first  title  and  
Cleveland's first in  a  major  
sport since 1964.  

The Cavs won 66 games in the regular season, 10 in the playoffs and still came up short last season. 
With O'Neal, there are no more excuses. 
''I'm settling into a damn good team, so the sky is the limit for us," said O'Neal, who has spent the past week out with James and other players at the Cleveland Clinic Courts --the Cavs' training facility in Independence. 
Fans lined up more than an hour outside The Barley House in the downtown Warehouse District for a chance to see Cleveland's newest wonder: Shaq. 
Before the guest of honor arrived, former Browns quarterback Bernie Kosar, boxing champion Kelly Pavlik, Cleveland Browns return specialist Joshua Cribbs, several members of the Cleveland Indians, Olympic gold medalist Dominique Moceanu and former Cavs star Austin Carr walked the red carpet. 
Kosar joked that the Browns, who dropped to 0-3 on Sunday with a 34-3 loss in Baltimore, could use the 7-foot-1, 325-pound O'Neal. 
"I know he'd been great in the scoring zone," Kosar said. ''I'd love to lob it up to 
h.
lm. " 
Along with its fair share of sports heartache in the past few decades, Cleveland has been hard hit by the econo­my. Kosar said O'Neal's arrival is a boon to basket­ball and the region. 
"The NBA has become the haves and the have-nots," Kosar said. "We've been lucky that Cavs owner Dan Gilbert has made Cleveland one of the league's top fran­chises and Shaq makes us even better." 
As they waited on a long line outside to get in, Lenny Kehoe of Cleveland and his friend, Derek Withrow, were excited about the chance to see O'Neal -and what he can do on the court. 
"We wanted to see Shaq," said Kehoe, who is con­vinced the pairing of O'Neal and James will end Cleveland's title drought. "This is the year. We came so close last year. Shaq is going to put us over the top." 
NFL 

Manning leads Colts over Cardinals 31-10 
Associated Press 

GLENDALE, Ariz. -Peyton Manning and Kurt Warner have thrown for miles and miles in their NFL careers, yet their paths crossed for only the second time on Sunday night. 
Manning stole the show. 
On the field where little brother Eli led the New York Giants to a Super Bowl tri­umph two seasons ago, Manning threw four touch­down passes, three in the second quarter, to power the Indianapolis Colts past Warner and the turnover­plagued Arizona Cardinals. 
The Colts' quarterback completed 24 of 35 for 379 yards with one interception. 
Warner, under severe pres­sure much of the night, was 30 of 52 for 332 yards and one score but was picked off twice. 
Indianapolis safety Antoine Bethea recovered a fumble at the 5 to stop one Arizona drive and intercepted a deflected pass in the end zone to thwart another. 
Manning had four TD pass­es in a game for the 18th 
Wayne made a one-handed grab of Manning's pass at the pylon on a 20-yard play that put the Colts up 7-3 with 9:04 left in the half. 
"Can't draw that up," Manning said. "You know he's capable of making those plays.... Those are the plays we expect him to make." 
After Indianapolis stuffed Arizona's offense, the Colts went 57 yards in six plays, Manning throwing 10 yards to Clark to make it 14-3 with 
5:49 to go in the half. 
The prettiest score came when Manning lofted a pass down the sideline into the outstretched arms of Garcon on a 53-yard scoring play that made it 21-3 with 1:52 to go in the half. 
Warner drove the Cardinals (1-2) to the Indianapolis 1­yard line in the fmal seconds of the half. He threw to Steve Breaston at the goal line but Melvin Bullitt didn't allow the receiver into the end zone. 
On the next play, Warner threw under pressure toward Larry Fitzgerald in the end zone. Tim Jennings deflected the ball in the air and Bethea intercepted. 
Arizona took the second half kickoff and went 73 yards in eight plays, with Warner throwing 10 yards to Anquan Boldin for the touch­down to cut it to 21-10 with 
10:50 to play in the third. 
But a 72-yard pass play from Manning to rookie Donald Brown set up the 3­yard TD toss to Addai to boost the lead to 28-10 with 
2:26 left in the quarter. 
Colts defensive end Dwight Freeney, who had harassed Warner all night, limped off the field at the end of the third quarter with a right leg injury and did not return. Indianapolis was without two defensive starters -middle linebacker Gary Brackett and cornerback Kelvin Hayden. 
Arizona, 8-2 at home last season, fell to 0-2 there this season, with echoes of boos through what was left of the crowd as Warner was sacked for a 28-yard loss on fourth down with about 6112 minutes to play. 

time, moving him ahead of Johnny Unitas into third on the NFL career list, behind Dan Marino's 21 and Brett Favre's 20. 
Manning topped 300 yards passing for the third time in as many games this season, giving him 50 for his career. 
Manning carved up the Cardinals with a show of pre­cision in the second quarter. 
He threw 20 yards to Reggie Wayne for the first score, 10 yards to Dallas Clark for the second and a nifty 53 yards to Pierre Garcon as Indianapolis took a 21-3 halftime lead. 
Manning added a 3-yard TD toss to Joseph Addai in the third quarter to make it 28­10. 
The Cardinals, up 3-0 early, drove deep into Indianapolis territory but Tim Hightower fumbled at the 5. 
The Colts (3-0) then went 95 yards in 11 plays for the touchdown that put them ahead for good. 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 28, 2009 
Kubinski 
continued from page 24 
ment, about two shots out of the lead, and we played a tough stretch of holes where we really didn't putt well." 
At one point the Irish dropped down as low as 12 shots under par, before six bogeys and one double bogey in the final nine shots hurt Notre Dame's hopes of a first-place finish. 
Fortner led the Irish to a fifth place standing after the first round of the tournament by fin­ishing the round four shots under par. Sunday Fortner shot even par, to finish at four-under for the weekend and tie for sev­enth in the tournament. 
"Doug played a nice event," Kubinski said. "I was really happy to see him bounce back so strongly after [a poor show­ing at] Minnesota. Honestly, he is going to go nowhere but up and will have a great season for us." 
Sandman also finished the invite under par. He followed an even first round Friday with a two-under round Sunday. Sandman tied for 16th in the tournament. 
"Josh mentioned to me on the way back that he didn't hit the ball well but worked as hard as he could out here and used his short game and got the best Chris Walker. The trio of birdies moved Notre Dame to the front of four teams competing for fifth place. 

Both Walker and junior Connor Allan-Lee finished the weekend one shot over par, tied for 30th place. 
"All of the guys played well," Kubinski said. "But they are all going to get better, and there will be some really low rounds in the coming weeks." 
The tournament was original­ly scheduled to be three rounds, but the second round was rained out Saturday, leav­ing the Irish with some down­time. 
"It was interesting because I believe in doing something every day to get better," Kubinski said. "It was a good chance to bond. The guys watched a couple of movies and just hung out. We did know that it would become a one-day shootout and the team that scored the lowest would proba­bly win." 
While Notre Dame could not match Middle Tennessee State's 11-under Sunday, the Irish shot low enough to keep Kubinski optimistic. 
"We picked up a 12-4 record this week against division one teams," Kubinski said. "So at 18-9 on the season, I think that puts us right about where we need to be. But our best golf is definitely ahead of us from 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles fall to conference foe Albion 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Spons Wrirer 
The Belles had momen­tum from back-to-hack sweeps in MIAA play, but were unable to keep it going against conference rival Albion College. 
The Belles (6-6, 2-4) lost 3-1 to the Britons, with whom they had been tied in conference standings. 
Before the game they had been playing well, and it seemed as if the ball was rolling in the right direc­tion, especially after a dominant performance against Manchester. 
"Our team played really well [against Manchester)," Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. "Danie [Brink] and Liana [Rohrl ran our offense really well." 
But the Britons were also coming off an impressive 3­0 performance against Olivet, and in front of a loud crowd in Kresge Gymnasium, the Britons came out aggressively on 

offense and took an early 14-7 lead. The Belles managed to rally to tie up the score at 
20. An attack error by the 
Belles and a kill by Briton hitter Emilee Goralski 
allowed  the  
Britons  to  
take  the  

slight edge that they built on to win the first set 25-23. 
In the sec­ond set, it was the Belles that were able to jump out to 

an early 10-5 lead, but the Britons went on a 9-1 run that included five hitting errors by the Belles and ultimately took the second set 25-21. 
The Belles took the third set comfortably 25-18, but the fourth set remained close. With a total of 14 ties in the fourth set, the 
Belles kept it close, but once again hitting errors were the Achilles heel, and the Brits managed to win the fourth set 25-21. 
In the match, sophomore setter Danie Brink had another impres­sive performance with 34 assists 

"Danie [Brink] and and 11 digs. 
Liana [Rohr] ran our Freshman out­
side hitter

offense really well. " 
Stephanie Bodien led the way on Toni Kuschel offense with 17 kills and senior
Belles coach 
L o r n a Slupczynski fol­lowed that effort with 10 of her own. 
The Belles will return to Angela Athletic Facility on Wednesday when they face off against MIAA opponent Kalamazoo and try to get back above .500 on the sea­son. The match is sched­uled to begin at 7 p.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

score  he  could  out  of it,"  what I've seen so far."  
Kubinski said.  
Both of the seniors birdied  Contact Douglas Farmer at  
the final hole, as did sophomore  dfarmer 1 @nd.edu  

SMC GOLF 

Squad takes first at Depauw Classic 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sporrs Wrirer 
During a stretch of the season where every stroke matters, the Belles came up with a huge first place finish in the Depauw Small College Classic this week­end. 
The Classic played host to some of the country's top teams -including the hometown team, the No. 9 Depauw Tigers. 
Going into the weekend with a slim 11-stroke lead in the conference, the Belles needed to generate some momentum heading into their last two con­ference jamborees of the season before the MIAA championship, which will begin on Oct. 9. While the tournament has no conference implications, a win provides confidence for St. Mary's at this point in the sea­son. 
The tournament got off to a slow start as play was suspend­ed Saturday due to inclement weather. Despite having to play 

back-to-hack rounds in the same day, the Belles shot an impressive combined score of 315. 
Freshman Martyna Mierzwa earned her third medalist honor of the fall with rounds of 76 and 78 strokes to lead all 99 golfers at the tournament. She leads the MIAA with an average score of 77.5. Right behind Mierzwa was teammate Natalie Matuszak with a round of 77, the second lowest of the week­end. 
Mary Kate Boyce, Perri Hamma, and Rosie O'Connor rounded out the top five for the Belles. Boyce and Hamma fin­ished in a tie for ninth with a pair of 162's while O'Connor's 171 was good enough for 27th place. 
The Belles will hope to carry on this momentum as they look forward to the third MIAA jam­boree of the year this Thursday at Kalamazoo. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 


Ar: t;tyening of Pra_yer from Around the World 
..,:;~::~::::::::,:.:.=.=.:.:.:.,.,,.,.:lm:::... · ·. 
__ f .. j?· .j' i. 



C-M 


Monday, September 28, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
counted for the Irish, shooting plus-four and plus-seven,
Evans 
respectively. continued from page 24 Park, Huffer and Conway 
each improved their first moved them into a tie for third round scores on Sunday on the with No. 12 University of way to Notre Dame's third­Tennessee-Chattanooga. place finish. Park's 72 was the 
"We had to play well in best round of the day for the order to just maintain," Irish Irish, and moved her into a tie 
coach  Susan  Holt  for  eighth  
said. "I don't know if  overall.  
there was an advan­ "(Park)  
tage to (the weather) because it puts every­ 'Wejust played as  played bet­ter this tour­ 
one on equal ground.  well as we needed to  nament,"  
We just played as well as we needed to play in order to just  play in order to just maintain.,,  Holt said. "We need her to shoot  
maintain."  the kind of  
Senior  Anne  Susan Holt  scores  that  
Brophy paced the Irish in the first  Irish coach  she just did. I'm happy  
round,  shooting  a  for her. I'm  
plus-two score of 74,  sure she got  
which  was  good  her  confi­ 

enough for a tie for fifth place dence back. She gives us a bal­overall. Junior So-Hyun Park ance in our scoring, which is shot one stroke behind Brophy, what we need." finishing in a tie for 13th after Huffer also improved her day one. Sophomore Becca score by three strokes, shoot­Huffer and junior Katie ing a 73 Sunday which was Conway also had their scores good enough for a tie with 
rate for the night to start the conference season with a
UConn 
bang and move the Huskies continued from page 24 to 7-9, 0-1 Big East. 
Sunday saw the Irish grab a 
scoring four of their first 12 points off blocks. Taking the lead at 9-7, Notre Dame never looked back as they rallied up the points. Kaelin made it 23-14 with a rifle shot to lock up the win. 
Notre Dame hit .250 as a team and Kaelin at a .529 

three-set sweep (25-11, 27­25, 25-19) over St. John's (9­9, 1-1 Big East). their first sweep over the Red Storm since 2004. Notre Dame hit at .303 to St. John's .141 after starting off strong in the first set and trailing only once in the third. 
• Statt\Ofthe Art Brand New High Line Fitness Center and Community dub House 
Pree Tanning Beds Private Balconies and Free Parking 
• 
~ming Pool. Sun Deck, HotTub · Sndltlfiketball Court 

• 
On Sit;M.n.gement and 24/7 Maintenanc::e 

• 
0n SiteSecurityOffiur 





2 BeclroomApartmeats Bt:Tmmhouaea 
~,)' 
Brophy for 14th overall. 
Conway showed the biggest improvement for the Irish, shooting five strokes better to finish with a 7 4 and a tie for 36th overall. 
Notre Dame finished 11 strokes back from No. 9 Florida State, which shot only five-over on the second day on its way to the victory in the University of Kentucky hosted event. The University of Central Florida finished sec­ond, just six strokes ahead of the Irish. 
"I think we're improving," Holt said. "We still have things we need to work on, but for the most part we're moving in the right direction. Their confi­dence is getting a little better. We just have to keep working at it." 
The Irish will take the week off before travelling to The Glen Club in Chicago, where they will compete in the two­day Windy City Collegiate on Oct. 5 and 6. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Dealy had four kills, nine digs and a block assist while Sciaccia had six kills and four block assists in the victory. Nicholas had 32 of the Irish's 40 asssists for the day. 
Notre Dame has a week off and will return home for the first time since Sept. 13 when they take on Villanova Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1 @saintmarys.edu 
0 


A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 
Deluxe Walk~ to-Campus Student Apartments 
• Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, 24 Hour FitnessCenter. Basketball Court 
• Free~g'Beds 
• 
FreeWasherand Dryer in each unit :"' 1 S~Wtteless InternetandComcast 

•um Cable Included 

• 
OnSite Management and 24/7 Maitttc,.at 

• 
On·SiteSeatrityOfficer 


·~:~·:< 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles finish strong at vi tal MIAA Jainboree 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sporrs Writer 

In what was a make-or­break event of the season, Saint Mary's rose to the occa­sion. 
The Belles posted their best finish of the fall this week­end, finishing fourth with a 133 at the MIAA Jamboree at 
Hope College in Mich. 
Senior captain McClowry led her team yet again with a time of 19:39 for 20th place overall. 
Belles coach Jackie Bauters said she was pleased with her team's effort in such an important event -the MIAA Jamboree marks the last occasion for teams to earn 

Holland, Megan 
"[l'he juniors1 work 
22nd-place fin­ethic, enthusiasm ish, finishing five seconds
and spirit will help 
behind

carry the team this 
, McClowry with year. a 19:44. "We have some very
Jackie Bauters 
hardworking

Belles coach 
conference points before the MIAA Championship at the end of October. 
"[Since the MIAA Jamboree] is our last Sk of the season, I'm glad so many of the women were able to post such solid times and get that extra boost of confi­dence and personal accom­plishment," Bauters said. "I know these will carry over into the second half of the season and the 6ks." 
No. 2 Calvin finished first in the meet with a perfect score of 15. Senior Knight Jess Koster took home medalist honors with a 17:59, 25 seconds faster than the nearest competitor on the 5-kilometer course near Ridge Point Church in Holland. 
No. 7 Hope took second with 58 points, while Adrian's 104 also put them ahead of the Belles. 
"The team is looking to improve upon [last year's fourth-place fnish] in the MIAA," Bauters said. "The Jamboree accounts for a third of our points in our total ranking and we're hop­ing to finish third this year. We would like to compete for second if possible." 
Freshman Belle Julia Kenney continued her 
impressive 
rookie cam­
paign with a 
underclass­
men," Bauters 

said. ''I'm thrilled to see them perform well. Julia is a worker and always looking to improve." 
Sophomore Joanne Almond placed 26th with a 20:10. The junior tandem of Catie Salyer and Samantha Wieczorek finished 31st and 34th with 20:21 and 20:30, respectively. 
Bauters praised the strength of the junior run­ners. 
"Their work ethic, enthusi­asm and spirit will help carry the team this year," she said. 
Saint Mary's travels to Rose-Hulman in Terre Haute this weekend for the Gibson Family Collegiate Invitational, the team's first 6k event of the season. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

Quality Off-Campus Houses Now leasing for 2010 •2011 
•Close to campus  •Washers &dryers  
•Student neighborhoods  •Dishwashers  
•Secunzy systems  • 2 ·10 bedrooms  

•Lawn service 
We have over 100 properties-see them at www.kramerhouses.com 
fur more information call 
(574)234·2436 
-----------------------------' 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 28, 2009 
Cincy 
continued from page 24 
the second. 
"It seems to be the trend on these double-game weekends," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "We get something out of the 
Friday game and nothing out of the Sunday game." 
Bearcats player Mark Konitsch made the winning goal in the 50th minute after a teammate stole ball from Irish senior midfielder John Schaefer. 
"To be honest we really were very sluggish until we lost the goal," Clark said. "After we lost the 
goal it was like a wake-up call and we played very well." 
From that point on, the Bearcats were-content to let their defense do the work, allowing the Irish to attack ­unsuccessfully -for the next 40 minutes. Though Notre Dame had many chances, including two corner kicks in the 89th minute, the offense was unable to score. 
"Their goalkeeper [Matt Williams] was very good, he made some phenomenal 
saves," Clark said. "You've got to hand it to the good goal­keeper." 
The second half was very different from that against Louisville on Friday. The game also began as a 0-0 tie in the first half, but the Irish offense exploded for four goals in the second period. 
"/fwe're going to do something we've got to get it going right now. There's not a lot oftime left, and we've got to get our lot together. " 
Bobby Clark Irish coach 
Junior Steven Perry and sen­iors Jeb Brovsky, Michael Thomas and Bright Dike each contributed a goal for the Irish in the victo­ry. 
The game was the first game in which Louisville had given up more than one goal, and only the second in which the Cardinals did not 

shut out their opponent. 
"On paper we did the harder job very well," Clark said. "Well, there's no easy games in the Big East, but what on paper looked easier was Cincinnati and obviously we didn't finish the job. Such a pity because we got the week­end off to a great start." 
The weekend pushed the Irish to fourth in the Big East Blue Division, while Louisville and Cincinnati stand in third and fourth, respectively, in the Red Division. 
Perhaps fortunately for the Irish, Sunday's game was the team's last -they play Seton Hall on Friday, then begin a Wednesday-Saturday rotation for the rest of the season. 
"If we're going to do some­thing we've got to get it going right now," Clark said. "There's not a lot of time left, and we've got to get our lot together. 
"Physically, we're strong enough. I think it's the mental part. I think whatever way, if the new format of the Wednesday-Saturday games helps us, we'll be ready." 
The Irish next play Seton Hall Friday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Note: 
uDuring halftime of Sunday's game against Cincinnati, two teams played the final match of the Lose the Shoes Tournament. The tournament, a 3-on-3 barefoot tournament played to benefit Grassroot Soccer, fielded :w teams on Saturday and raised approxi­mately $1,200, according to organizer Luke Scullion. 
The winning team, Barefoot, was comprised of four players from the Siegfried interhall soccer team. They defeated the Hot Spurs 6-1. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Shutout 
continued from page 24 
the locker room strong. Irish junior forward Taylor Knaack started the Irish scoring sequence with a run into the left corner and lofted the ball to the oppo­site end of the penalty area to sophomore forward Melissa Henderson. Henderson then passed the ball to Campbell, who curled a cross into the slot where Fowlkes was waiting to finish and drove a head­er into the right side of the net. 
After Fowlkes' tally, the Cardinals lone opportunity came in the 75th minute of play after the Irish were caught too far up the field after a corner kick. Cardinals' sophomore Giselle Mangal took the ball and found herself in a foot race with Irish fresh­man defender Jazmin Hall to the goal. Mangal evaded Hall's tackle, but senior goaltender Kelsey Lysander rushed Mangal, who made a key save after charging Mangal and forcing her to try to chip her shot. 
In the final 15 minutes, the Irish shut down any further Cardinal scoring chances, but managed to create three strong scoring chances of their own in the last four minutes of play. However, the Irish weren't able to add an additional goal before time expired. 
The win came in Notre Dame's last home game before heading out on a four-match road trip that begins with a two-match set against West Virginia and Pittsburgh next week­end. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


start training for $70K­finish running your own district 
One year. That's what it takes to prepare our District Managers for success. More than training, it's an exdusive hends,on experlence complete wilh salary. A learning opportunity that Immerses you in our day-to-day operations, and teache! you our busrness inside and out. Al AlDI our invastment in you beginr; with &nsuring you're heading in !he righl direclion. 
The responsibHiiy. The success. And the revvards. Welcome to More 
'+' bv Frid<•'f Octobc· \~d :.:.< "in in10rvtew lhtcugh GO H<t2H~ 
SMC SOCCER 
Third win of season big for Belles 
Belles in the victory though mak(~ her first start, before
By KATE GRABAREK 

she only played 45 minutes. being replaeed by Duffy for the 
Sports Writer 
Adele Bruggeman notched a second half of the game. 
pair of saves herself to wrap Bruggeman picked up a save 
Saint Mary's (3-6-1) was able up the game. in the first half, and Duffy to split the two games it played While the Belles offense was recorded two more in the sec­over the weekend, defeating not able to put any balls in the ond half to lead the defense. cross-town rival Bethel on net against Saint Mary's Friday and falling to Marian Marian, they did will open the University on Saturday. make a strong '7 think the key for MIAA portion of 
The Belles were able to sur­showing in the their schedule
us this season, 
pass their win total from last game registering on Wednesday at
especially the MIAA 
season with a 2-1 victory over more shots, shots Adrian College. the Pilots on Friday to open on goal and corner portion ofthe "I think the their tournament. kicks than Marian. key for us this
season, is to hold 
"I feel like we have all However, the season, especial­
our teammates and
reached a new level of comfort Belles were not ly the MIAA por­with each other," senior goalie able to capitalize ourselves tion of the sea­Patty Duffy said. "We still on the opportuni­son, is to hold
accountable. " 
learn new things about our ties as well as our teammates coaches and our teammates all Marian did and ourselves 
Patty Duffy 
the time, but now we don't throughout the accountable," have to waste time trying to game. Belles goalie Duffy said. "We read our teammates or Coach. The Knights know each other We know what his expecta­were able to score and the team is tions are now, we just have to on a pair of corner kick head­closer this year, but we still challenge ourselves to meet ers in the 19th and 22nd min­need to keep working to get to them." utes and then again in the the point where we know for a 
Both teams played a tight 39th minute to make the final fact that each and every one of game in the first half until first score 3-0. us is going to give it their all year Alexa Ahern was able to The Belles came out stronger for the team. If we come out score with less than three min­in the second half as they only and honestly do that for every utes to go before the half. allowed two shots on goal, but game it will be hard not to find 
Junior Carissa Hart was able were not able to overcome the success." to notch the only other goal for Knights' defense to get any the Belles to secure the win. goals themselves. Contact Kate Grabarek at 
Duffy had five saves for the Bruggeman was able to kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Monday, September 28, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Kitchen V.I. P.'s 6 Towel (off) 
10 Rock star, say 
14 W.W. II German sub 15 Peak 16 Moore of "GJ. 
Jane" 17 Ti!ter at windmills 19 City NNW of Oklahoma City 20 Raised, as livestock 21 "Dee-tense! Dee-tenser and others 23 UtUe article accompanymg a 
bigger article 27 For free 28 One of IJOII's 
four majOrs 

29 Biblical objects of multiplication 
30 Sprinted 
31 _Carlo (part 
of Monaco) 32 "Hike!" callers in football, for short 
35 Entryway 36 Fabricate, as a signature 37 Multinational currency 38 Umberto _, author of "The Name of the Rose· 39 Santa's little helpers 40Cranium 
contents 41 Hire, as a lawyer 43 Industry in Las 
Vegas and Atlantic City 44 Plaza 45 Plaza displays 46 Psychology 101, e.g. 47 Number of calories in water 48 Nobelist Wiesel 49 Place to order a Blizzard ss Softly hit ball in tennis 56"Render_ Caesar ..." 57 Eggs on 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUzZLE 

58 Writer _ St. Vincent Millay 59 Aspirin target 60_Gay(WW. II plane) 
Down What a cow chews 2 "Entourage" 
network 3 Ages and ages 4 Online help page 5 Struck 
accidentally, as the toe 6 Floor finisher 7 Item with earbuds 8 Favorite 9 Detest 10 Think creatively 11 Star of ''The Rookie." 2002 12 Fails to mention 13Jartops 18 Ahmadinejad's country 22 One who's well off 231ncreaseintnDOp levels 
24 Newton with a law named after him 
25 Medicine woman of 1990s TV 26 Fencing sword 27 Pagoda 
instruments 29 Italian 31-Down star Sophia 
31 See 29·Down 33 Salt water 34 Hymns, e.g. 
36Came back strong, as allergies 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puule by Anthony J. Salvia 
37 Bombeck who 431ndiana 50"Gimme_r wrote ''The birthplace of the (Alabama Grass Is Always JacksonS cheerleader's Greener Over cry) the Septic Tank" 44 Sphere or cube 51 Container at 
many receptions39Greek H's 45 Argentine 
52 Maniacal
dictator who was 
leader?

40 Uke the works of ousted in 1955 53 Ingredient inHandeland some sushi rolls 
Bach 46 Relinquish 54 Intelligence­42 "I've got it!" 47 Casserole pasta gathering org. 
For answers, call 1·900·285·5656, $1-49 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best ot. Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: TextNYTX to 386 to download puzzles. or visit nytimes.oomtmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles. nytimes-wm/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.wm/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearnlng/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRmF..S BORN ON THIS DAY: Avril l.avigll<'. 25: Stephilll JeniUns. 45: Shaun Ca<.~idy. Sl: Meat Loaf. 62 
Happy Birthdlly: Let things go iru;lead ofleuing them get to you. Once you show your talents, you will llltmct attentio•l and help. Thete is muclt 11:> gain this year l>y pu~hing: your­selfon aU fmms. A stroDtr set of pl"indples coupled with u little nunuring and belief will go n long way. Yournumbcn<are 8, 17.24. 27. 33.39.44 
ARIES (March Zl·Aprill9): Do something nice for yourself and forget about what e•· 
eryone else l• doing. Everything can wait while you gather your dJOUghts lll1<l son through 
what's bcell happening. You need to feel comfonabl" with the plan> you have. 2 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii:ZO.May lO): Once you have accomplished what you need to. you can 
take on new projecls. There is an opponunity to tum a skill you have into a Jli'O'Iperous 
••enrure. Get serious about your fuwre and your finances. 5 stlll'l> 
GF..MINl (May 2J.Juool0): O<l to an event !hat w\ll help clear your head. A shun jour­
ney will broaden your outlook and give )'<lU clearer vioion about your current sttak:gy and 
plans. Don~ get <"®gilt in somoone else's dilemma, lllklng on n:sponsl !>illlles that don1 
belong to you. 3 stars 

CANCER (June 21·July 22): Thl: iluonll1!1ion you inherit fmm "'>meone you re>ped will help you make a decision about your personal. fmancial and domestic life. A <'Wple of unique chilllges can al!er your lifestyle and your future. 3 Sll!rS 
U:O (July 23-Aug. 22): Thinking big ean attrnt't a ~'(ftain type ofimli"idual but yoo really need more !liability in the P"'lJl'fu you pick to panncr with. Pull hack and sec what you get in return. l'ruposalslhut sound too good to be true will fall short of your expecta· tions. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make plans to do ronledling enteftaining !hat will aUow you 
to spend time with !he prople y<lll enjoy the mw. Ruma!ll.'<' is evident if you focu. on being aucnth·e and laking pan in acti~·ities lhnl ure conducive to love. 5 Sll!rS 
L.mRA (Sept. Z3-0d. Z2): Something }'OU are worting toward that has been a small part 
of your life up Ulllil now has the potential to grow >!lowly but trurely imo something gigan­
tic. Don't lei emotional confrontations binder your productivity. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Od. 23-Nov. :U): Your heartlclt help and dedication 11:> someone or romething .. you believe in will lllart to lake shape and lead to praise, good will and an opportunity to flltlher your own interests. Ttavel should be in your plan•. 4 stars 
SAGITI'ARIUS (Nov. 22-.l.k!c. 21): A\ooid nlBking rash decisions or life-dumging a!tera­tklns that wiD be difficult 11:> reverse. Sit tight. observe what's going on around yoo and pre· pare to 1roubleshoot ifthere'~ a family. community or ndghbortlood dispuiC. Take a cau­tious position. 3 s111t< 
CAPRICORN (Dee. 2l-Jao. 19): You haw e\'et)'thing to gain by puniog: your heart and soul into >Omething that really !lJ'llbs }'our interest Invest in yourself and your talellt and you won't be ,;ony. Jump ut any opportunity to lrnvel or spend lillll: with SUiliCOIIl! you find in~>piring. 3 Sian; 
AQUARIUS (Jan. :W.Feb. 18): Y1111 don't huwto do dlilll,"' us eX!rn>lllgAnlly ""you imag· inc. Si7.c clown your objceti'"' ami you will ool ha~c lo owe anyii!IC for iiJIYihing. Wmk hard and go it alone, 3 star.; 
PISCES (Feb.l9-Man-h 20): Mingle. network, play the gan.e and gel involved.l.ove is in sight, 110 be pn:pared to dt1 something mmanlic with your pann"" or. ifsingle. uttend nn 
event with savvy people with common int"""l'. 4 star> 
Birthday Baby: You are set in your ways and eager to follow your dreanu. You ore pas­sional~> and wlllingw do for othetl;. You have a s1rong voke and will alway> say whal\ on your mind. 
T::ugtmio's \loW. si1es: cu.~enialrutcomfar confidential consllll<llicms, 
myspt:l<'t'.ctmlil!llgeninld.~rfi>r E11genitl's hlog. mfrl}(ufviu.ct'"'fi" fun 


JEFF KNUREK 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE

SCHAD & FREUDE 
saturday's  I Jumbles:  CABIN  PATIO  (Answers tomorrow) KILLER POSTAL  
Answer:  What the students brought to school for their  
mean teacher ­ "CRAB" APPLES  

THE MOBILE PARTY 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Mike Argirion and Jell Knurek 


WHE:N HE: WORE: THE: l-OUD OUTFIT, THE: PAI<TYGOE:I<S SAID HE: WAS IN A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

~l! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HELEC 

[XJ [J 
"1>2009 Tribune Madill Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 
HISFY 

± 
COLIN HOFMAN 
tMEEFAL t

] [] ) 
NEW~!l'llooEti\WI)OIO:fl1lP/$r.~ 
I SOMIAC j

I [X (J 
A: rI I I I JBY rI I I I I I J 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, September 28, 2009 
page 24 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Irish complete s-weep in Big East opening -weekend 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports .Writer 
Notre Dame had a perfect weekend opening conference competition. The Irish (8-4, 2­0 Big East) opened Big East play Friday with a 3-1 win over Connecticut and swept St. John's 3-0 Sunday to cap off the weekend. 
Senior outside hitters Serenity Phillips and Christina 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Team continues to struggle on Sundays 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
What a difference a day makes. A Sunday, to be more pre­cise. 
What is regarded as a day of relaxation for the rest of the Notre Dame campus has become a day of heartbreak for the Irish after they lost 1-0 to Cincinnati Sunday, falling to a record of 0-4 on the Sabbath Day. 
Notre Dame (4-4-1, 2-2-0) defeated No. 7 Louisville 4-0 Friday before stumbling against Cincinnati. This was the fourth straight weekend series in which the Irish won the first match only to lose in 
see CINCYI page 22 

Kaelin set the tone for Notre Dame. Phillips was one block short of a triple-double Friday for the second time in her col­lege career with 16 kills, 12 digs, and nine block assists at Connecticut. Kaelin posted 12 kills and five digs Friday night, coming back with 13 kills, five digs, and a .500 hitting per­centage against the Red Storm Sunday. Phillips had nine kills and six digs in the match. 
The Irish took out the 
Huskies in four sets Friday (25-22, 21-25, 25-14, 25-16). Junior middle blocker Kellie Sciaccia had ten kills, senior setter Jamel Nicholas posted 46 assists and eleven digs while sophomore outside hit­ter Kristen Dealy had twenty kills and sophomore libero Frenchy Silva had 16. 
In Friday's first set, fresh­man middle blocker Hilary Eppink made a kill from the outside at 9-9 before Phillips granted Notre Dame the lead with a shot from the right at 10-9. Connecticut led again up to 17-16 when a 3-0 Irish run put them in front for good. Phillips had an ace at 22-19 on the way to securing the set. 

Sophomore outside hitter Stephanie Slatt and Silva both had aces to start off the sec­ond set but the Huskies took the lead. Phillips recorded a block and a kill to bring Notre Dame within one at 18-17, but 
Unholy Day 

TOM LAfThe Observer Senior forward Bright Dike, 9, and senior midfielder John Schaefer go up for a ball during Sunday's game against Cincinnati. The Irish lost 1-0 to the Bearcats. 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Shortened match aids Irish effort 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
Despite a weather delay that forced the match to be short­ened from three rounds to two, the Irish were able to move up three spots during the second round of the Betty Lou Evans Fall Invitational in Kentucky en route to a third place finish. 
After an opening round plus­26 score of 304 on Friday, Notre Dame was slotted in sixth place before the inclement weather commenced, can­celling Saturday's second round and shortening the tourna­ment. Play resumed on Sunday, and the Irish improved by 10 strokes, shooting a 294 that 
see EVANS/page 21 
MEN'S GOLF 

Seniors lead in Tennessee 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 
Two seniors led Notre Dame to an impressive fifth place fm­ish at the Mason Rudolph Championship in Tennessee Sunday. 
Seniors Doug Fortner and Josh Sandman both finished the two-round, 17-team tour­nament under par, as the Irish shot a cumulative score of 562 to finish six under par as a team. No. 45 Notre Dame ended six shots behind the win­ner, No. 34 Middle Tennessee State, but used three birdies on the final hole to top host No. 35 Vanderbilt by one stroke. 
"The guys did a good job. We played pretty well, but left some shots out there for sure," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. "As a matter of fact, toward the end of the front nine today we were 10 under for the tourna­
see KUBINSKI/page 20 


it wasn't enough to take the set. 
Slatt aced again in the third set as the Irish started to block at the net more than they had the entire match. Notre Dame was tailing Connecticut 9-10 when they went on an 11-1 run to close the set. 
The Irish dominated the net once again in the final set, 
see UCONN/page 21 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Squad achieves new school record with win 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame entered the NCAA record books on Sunday with a strong defen­sive effort in its 1-0 win over Louisville. 
The No. 14/12 Irish extended their school­record Big East unbeaten streak to 55 games with the win, tying them with North Carolina for the longest con­ference win streak in NCAA history. 
Notre Dame scored the game's lone tally when jun­ior forward Lauren Fowlkes scored during the 49th minute on an assist from sophomore midfielder Molly Campbell. The goal was Fowlkes' fifth on the year and her third in the past four matches. 
The scoring breakthrough came on a day where the Irish created numerous chances but couldn't find a way to put the ball in the back of the net. Notre Dame outshot Louisville 18-6 on the day, but the Cardinals' defense, anchored by fresh­man goalie Taylor Vancil, found ways to turn the Irish away. Vancil recorded five saves on the day and made her presence known early, as the Irish could not con­vert on four scoring chances within the first six minutes of the game. 
The teams went into the half tied after Vancil turned away three of Notre Dame's scoring chances in the first half. However, her shutout ended early in the second half as the Irish came out of 
see SHUTOUT/page 22 






