

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 44: ISSUE 31 

Wotnen's rugby dub established on campus 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Girls on campus wearing rugby jerseys may be making more than just a fashion statement. They may be mem­bers of the University's first women's rugby club team, which was approved this year. 
The team -which has around 50 members -aims to start practices by the end of the month and play games by next semester, sophomore Christina Koney, the co­founder of the team, said. 
Women's rugby is played exactly by the same rules as the men's team, Konkey said. 
"It's a very intense contact sport," Konkey said. "But it's definitely not as violent as it looks." 
Konkey said rugby can be described with two oxymoron­ic phrases -"elegant vio­lence" and "organized chaos." 
"To the untrained eye, it looks absolutely chaotic and it looks absolutely violent," she said. "But when you learn how to play, when you watch from that perspective, you see the structure and the organi­zation and it's just a beautiful game to watch." 
Konkey said she enjoys the social aspect and team bond­ing. 
"My favorite part, personal­ly, is rugby has a tradition of being a very social sport, just all the tradition that sur­rounds it," she said. "It's very much in line with Notre Dame's ideals of tradition and family. Your team really does become your pseudo family." 
According to Konkey, noth­ing can compare to the team unity found in rugby. 
"I've never been involved in such a team oriented sport. I mean I played soccer. I played basketball," she said. "But when it comes to rugby, you use every single person on that field. There really can't be one all -star." 
Rugby players also bond with their competition. After every game, both teams eat a meal together and socialize. 
"You walk of that field where you just pummeled each other into the ground and you go and eat pizza and you meet the girls from the other team," Konkey said. 
see RUGBY/page 4 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6. 2009 

Vincent Hutchings of the
By MEGAN HEMLER 
University of Michigan and 
News Writer 
Paul Sniderman of Stanford 
University in McKenna Hall 
Racial policy preferences Auditorium Monday. have not changed significant­The lecture was the first in ly in the United States from a series examining today's 1988 to 2008 despite the political landscape, as the success of President Barack University of Notre Dame's Obama, visiting scholars said Rooney Center for the Study Monday. of American Democracy 
The controversial topic of kicked off its inaugural con­race and its role in the his­ference, entitled, "The toric 2008 election was the Change Election? The 2008 focus of discussion by Presidential Election and the 
NDSP arrests three during game 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
While the Irish battled the Washington Huskies in the rain Saturday, South Bend Police and Notre Dame Security Police tNDSP) arrested three peo­ple outside the stadium and 34 people were asked to leave the stadium, director of NDSP Sergeant Phil Johnson said. 
Johnson said one person was arrested for "public intoxication and vandalism, one for public intoxication and trespass and one for 

see ARRESTS/page 4 
Future of American Politics." 
"Racial policy preferences remain relatively steady over time, and the racial divide is relatively large. However, it may well be that whites are more likely to adopt a con­servative opinion on matters of racial policy, not due to any racial bias or prejudice, but rather that this may be deriving from some set of non-racial political values," 
see ROONEY/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Series looks at Catholic faith within literature 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Catholic intellectual culture can be found in art and litera­ture created by artists of any faith, as the Center for Ethics and Culture's fall lecture series shows. 
"I wanted undergraduates seeking Catholic culture to know you could find it even in non-Catholics," Kathryn Wales, Programs Director for the center, said. "It's amazing, you could be watching 'The Royal Tenenbaums' and say, 'This is something that helps me live my faith more fully."' 
The Catholic Culture Lecture series, held annually since 2002, consists of four weekly lectures on Tuesdays at 8 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo. This year's series, titled "Close to Catholic: A Celebration of Kindred Spirits," is halfway done. Professor Joseph Pearce of Ave Maria University will lec­ture on C.S. Lewis Tuesday and Professor Robert Bird of the University of Chicago will finish the series with a lecture on Fyodor Dostoevsky on Oct. 13. 
The lecture series brings faculty from different univer­sities to campus to discuss the works of Catholic authors who have contributed significantly to today's intellectual tradi­tion. 
Junior Octavia Ratiu, Undergraduate Assistant at the center, said, "The series targets undergrads. As an undergraduate at the begin­ning of our studies, at the beginning of forming who we are and what our faith means to us, this series is very important. I hope a lot of peo­ple come to it." 
The emphasis on under­graduate involvement sets the series apart from some other center events. 
"The series is very student­run," Ratiu said. "As an undergraduate assistant, you're in charge of everything from picking the themes of each year's conference to con­tacting the speakers and hav­ing dinner with them before the lectures." 
This series is unique in that it focuses on non-Catholic writers. Past series have 
see SERIES/ page 4 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER SGA approves budget at SMC page 3 • 'Zombieland' review page 12 • Interhall football wraps page 24 • Viewpoi_nt page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
An olympic relief 
Somewhere in Washington, a former Obama staff member is looking for another job. Perhaps more than one. The botched attempt to save Chicago from losing its 2016 Summer Olympic bid undoubtedly began with one or several advisors Colin Rich insisting that the President come out of 
Scene 
the bullpen in the 
Writer 
ninth inning of this week's selection meeting and save Chicago. However unlike past European outings, President Obama couldn't get his spin past the International Olympic Committee. 
The President's intention to swoop in and save his home town backfired dramatically when the Committee announced Chicago's failure to reach the medal stand of the selection process. A surprising fourth­place finish left many Chicagoans stunned and an already busy President, who learned of his fruitless efforts in Copenhagen en route back to America, scrambling for lost time. Somebody on the presidential staff paid dearly over the weekend for the decision to gamble with the President's time and more importantly, his quickly dwindling political capital. 
Losing far more than time this weekend, President Obama took a hit from the inter­national community as well. The last-place finish of Chicago became more than the loss of an Olympic bid the moment the President decided to tromp confidently into Denmark, believing as he did that his spe­cial guest appearance, with wife Michelle and qua<>i-wife Oprah in tow, would blow the Wmdy Oty over the competition. However while already reeling from increased domestic criticism over his eco­nomic reforms, military strategy and healthcare initiatives, the President suf­fered a resounding international defeat by involving himself personally with the mat­ter of Chicago's bid. Faith in the effica­ciousness of President Obama's speech­making now faces serious questioning both at home and abroad, and the President should take note. 
The winner in all of this, paradoxically, is Chicago, who should view the IOC's deci­sion with relief. Some of the lower esti­mates gauged the price tag for hosting the 2016 Olympics at around $5-7 billion for the city of Chicago, whose property taxes faced a preemptive increase within the past year in preparation for such a tab. A noteworthy history of fiscal imprudence and political corruption notwithstanding, Chicago faced shuddering conservative price estimates that would have sent municipal deficits soaring. For a nation in financial dire straits already, putting feder­ally granted dollars into the hands of Illinois politicians is an opportunity on which every taxpayer should gladly pass. 
A developed city like Chicago had noth­ing to prove and really nothing to gain from hosting the Olympics. The IOC gift­wrapped Rio de Janeiro a chance to ele­vate Brazil's international profile and eco­nomic status on the world stage. This will also accelerate much-needed infrastruc­ture improvements within Brazil through massive construction projects that, in a city like Chicago, would prove more onerous than beneficial. While President Obama suffered a palpable political defeat over the weekend, he should at least take solace in sparing his Chicago brethren the economic burden of hosting the Summer Games in seven years. 
Contact Colin Rich at crich@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE HIGHLIGHT OF THE WASHINGTON GAME? 







Stephen Clarke  Ben Ellison  McKenna Nakamura  Samantha Swanson  Andy Hermansen  
junior  law student  junior  junior  senior  
Keough  offcampus  Keough  Pangborn  Keough  
'The goal-line  "Golden Tate's  "Every time  "Hughes almost  "Last play of  
stands. All of  unnecessary  Manti Te'o  getting stopped,  overtime:  
them."  cartwheel. "  stepped onto  but then  Washington  
the field."  pushing for four  receiver, meet  
more yards and  Mr. Smith and  
the touchdown  Mr. McCarthy.  ,,  
in OT."  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer Members of the Notre Dame Marching Band dance during the halftime show of Saturday's football game against Washington. 
OFFBEAT 
Vampires vow til death do us part at Ohio wedding 
COLUMBIA STATION, Ohio -An Ohio bride and ghoul have vowed to love each other and haunt and howl at the moon together at a Halloween-themed wedding. Sixty-one-year­old Jack Holsinger and 44­year-old Connie Spitznagel were both made up as pale-faced vampires for their scare-emoney Saturday night at a haunt­ed house near Cleveland. The two chose the location because it's operated by the same people who own a campground where the couple met. 
Holsinger arrived in a coffin inside a hearse, and the coffin was carried to the altar by six pallbearers. Minister Greg Kopp was dressed as Jason in the "Friday the 13th" movies. After the vows were exchanged, he ordered Holsinger not to kiss his new bride but instead to bite her on the neck. 
Britain's new healthy eating guru Is Homer Simpson 
LONDON -Forget all the pizza and doughnuts -the British government wants fans of "The Simpsons" to ditch junk food and eat more healthily. 

The Department of Health is spending 640,000 pounds ($1 million) to sponsor episodes of the long-running U.S. cartoon series broadcast on Channel 4, as part of its Change4Life campaign. 
Before the start of the sponsored shows, cartoon characters pretending to be the members of the dys­functional animated family are shown sitting on a sofa tucking into ice cream and chips which then morph into more healthy alterna­tives. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::c 
=c 
LLI 
3: 
...1 
<C 
(.) 


0 
HIGH 67 45
...I 
LOW 55 40 
HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 
The New Playwrights Workshop presents "Cargo" and "Scattered Voices" from today to Oct. 11 in the Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 
p.m. Tickets are available for purchase through the box office or at performingarts.nd.edu. 
A lecture, "The Plundered Planet and Restoring Natural Order in the Bottom Billion," will take place Thursday in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center at 5 p.m. Paul Collier, Director of the Centre for the Study of African Economies at the University of Oxford, will lecture. The lecture is free. 
Richard Halloran will be giv­ing a lecture entitled "The Seven Myths of Media" in Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. Halloran is a former New York Times and Washington Post cor­respondent. 
"Breast Cancer," a lecture in the Cancer Care Lecture Series, will take place Thursday in the auditorium at Indiana University School of Medicine -South Bend, located at 1234 Notre Dame Avenue, from 6:30 
p.m. to 8 p.m. The event is free and open to the public, but requires registration at south­bendclinic.com. 
A film, "Goodbye Solo" (2008), will be shown Friday at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 6:30 p.m. Buy tickets at the box office or online at performingarts.nd.edu. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

60 HIGH 38 LOW 
55 35 

Atlanta 74 I 55 Boston 67 I 51 Chicago 61 I 47 Denver 57 I 33 Houston 91 I 76 Los Angeles 67 I 55 Minneapolis 52 I 42 New York 66 I 52 Philadelphia 69 I 50 Phoenix 86 I 62 Seattle 61 I 43 St. Louis 70 I 53 Tampa 90 I 77 Washington 70 I 51 

65 40 
Tuesday, October 6, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Blogging becomes past time 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
No one graduates with a degree in blogging. So what qualifies someone as a blog­ger? 
The ease of maintaining a blog caused a surge in online opinion worldwide and changed the dynamic of the mainstream media. 
Matthew Storin, professor of Journalism, Ethics and Democracy and former editor of The Boston Globe, defines a blog as a place where a person posits opinions and then takes responses to those opinions. 
Today, popular bloggers impact areas ranging from pol­itics to business, literature to sports. 
Blogspot, Livejournal, Blogger and WordPress are just some of the free blogging sites available to the public. Considering the countless num­ber of blogs that compose the blogosphere, most bloggers have influence on smaller audi­ences. 
Seniors Andrew Mitsch, Antonio Carranza, Kevin Donohue and Mike Lee started a blog this September to pro­mote Jimmy Clausen's consid­eration for the Heisman Award. 
"I contribute to the blog a few times a week, as do the other bloggers. We have tenta­tively split the content by Heisman candidate, but we are all pretty free to write about whatever we want," Mitsch said. "The goal is to show why the other candidates are very good but not as deserving of the award as Jimmy." 
Other students on campus use the blog outlet as a form of personal expression. Sophomore Katie Pieper mainly writes blogs on music, movies and humor. 
"I write mostly for myself and my close friends -just obser­vations about the world and silly things I'm thinking of and want to share. My goal as a blogger is to entertain," Pieper said. 
Senior Johanna Kirsch blogs to be a part of an online com­munity. 
''I'm LiveJournal 'friends' with people at all different stages of life from all sorts of backgrounds, and I'm good friends with many of them beyond the arbitrary LiveJournal designation. Being part of a community allows me to toss out ideas, or ask ques­tions of people who I know will know more about something than I will," Kirsch said. 
Blogs have also affected the dynamic of the mainstream media. Despite constrained budgets, news corporations like The New York Times and The Chicago Tribune have adopted extensive blog sections to their Web sites. Storin said these blogs do not generate much money, but they help the com­panies stay on top of the news beat and appear "less retro." 
"It used to be if a newspaper did a controversial story it would get complaints through snail mail about three days later ... now [with blogs] it's three minutes later," Storin said. 
Blogging is different than tra­ditional media forms in that readers can have a last word on the news. Blogs are not just a story -they are a conversa­tion. 
Storin said blogs give people who hold strong opinions the opportunity to voice those opin­ions publicly. 
"[Blogs] really add to debate and discourse, sometimes in a very unfiltered, even crude way," he said. 
Blogs can indicate a trend of opinion among the public, Starin said. Especially in politi­cal situations, they can be a way to gage public sentiments. 
"Sometimes the slightest inti­mation that blogs are not important is met by a common cry of complaint and resist­ance," Starin said. "The impact in reality [of blogs] is somewhat south of where the participants think it is, and somewhat north of where mainstream media thinks it is." 
Many blogs, by their very nature, come with a bias attached. 
"[The bias of blogs] makes them more attractive to certain readers ... the more strongly held political opinions of these readers, the more likely they are to go to certain blogs," Storin said. 
With so many blogs and so much contradicting content available on the web, facts can often get suffocated in opinion. 
"What is diluted is a sense of what is real news. The day in and day out difficult work of gathering info and having the means to convey it -that's greatly threatened," Storin said. 
The way YouTube videos rise to unprecedented popularity, reaching millions of views and then suddenly disappear into cyberspace, the popularity of individual blogs can also rise and fall rapidly. 
Starin said he believes the future of media will include blogs, just not quite as many of them. 
"I think the fad of blogs will fade some," Storin said. "Blogs will stay around ... because stating an opinion is one of the most basic elements of life in a functioning democracy." 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Information Session on 

Study Abroad Programs in China: Beijing, Shanghai & Hong Kong 
Wednesday, October 7, 5:30p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15,2:009 For Academic Year 201~2011, faU 2010 or Spring 2011 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
SGA approves 2009­2010 budget Monday 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Student Government Association (SGA) approved its 2009-2010 budget at its meeting Monday night. 
The total budget this year comes to $300,000, which comes from each student's student activity fee and carryover from previous boards. 
The budget has increased from last year by 20 percent overall. This is due to the inclusion of pre­vious boards carryover into the budget and also Saint Mary's enrollment being up to 1,664 stu­dents. 
The extra 20 percent has been distributed across all of the allot­ments within the budget. The budget also includes setting aside $55,000 in the SGA account to carry-over into next year. 
SGA decided this year to give equal allotments to each class' board. In previous years money for class boards was determined by that particular classes enroll­ment. This year each class board will be given $2,000 to work with. 
"We decided we'd rather be fair and consistent across the board," student body president Jenny Hoflinan said. 

Now that the SGA budget is finalized clubs can begin to apply for their start-up allotment of money. The allotment for clubs is for their day-to-day expenses, but for special trips, conferences and events they can also apply for sponsorships. 
Sponsorships were formerly co­sponsorships, but SGA is changing the title of this allotment because more often than not SGA puts forth more money than the club itself does. "Sponsorships" there­fore is more apt language, Hoflinan said. 
Clubs will also be required to bring in receipts to show how their money is being spent so SGA can see that funds are properly being used, Hoflinan said. 
Other considerations that the budget makes are for new com­puters in the SGA office, covering salaries of student workers to keep the student center open until midnight and the Campus Readership Program, which pro­vides newspapers from around the nation to students free of charge. 
SGA also set up a contingency fund for SGA initiatives. It is allot­ted for possibly putting printers in dorms, which is something that SGA is working towards. The con­tingency fund is also sort of a "possibility fund," for anything they might need extra money for throughout the year, Hoffman said. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Updates presented by 3 task forces Monday 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
The Campus Life Council (CLC) met Monday to present updates from their three task forces. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber, who is chairman of the evaluation of student disci­plinary records, said her group was moving quickly and contact­ing key University officials to accomplish their mission. 
"We are looking at expunging records of a minor disciplinary infraction," she said. "The pur­pose of discipline at Notre Dame is education, and if education has already happened why should [the record] follow." 
Weber said the task force looked at what the disciplinary practice is and worked on questions, which were later posed to Associate Vice President of Residence Life Bill Kirk. 

In addition, members of the group were asked to submit mock proposals with their own ideas of how the new disciplinary process should work. 
Student Union Board manager Kat Burke asked Weber if the group considered extending the option to transfer students during their first year on campus. 

Weber said the group will take the suggestion into consideration, but the outcome will be primarily due to how much the Office of Residence Life and Housing is willing to change. 
Sophomore John DeLacio, presi­dent of the Student Legal Services group, said the group has been using other universities as a benchmark of what has been done so far. 
"On one extreme, there are options like N.C. State, where the university writes letters on their student's behalf [when they are in legal trouble], while other extreme schools have volunteers who give legal advice, like William and Mary," DeLacio said. 

In addition to these two scenar­ios, he said there were some other cases, which the task force was looking into. These included hav­ing one lawyer for all student cases, using legal interns for advice, having an online database of local attorneys who would offer advice or using the legal aid clinic at the law school. 
DeLacio said the legal aid clinic at the law school was a highly unlikely option because the clinic's services focus primarily on com­munity members who cannot afford an attorney. 
"They weren't really willing to help," he said. 
Campus advertising chairman Bridget Bredemann said the task force centered their research to focus on informing the student body about events available to them. 
The group initially looked into creating a central Web site that would hold a calendar of all events occurring around campus, but then decided it would be too similar to the new agenda.nd.edu -set to launch Jan. 29. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said CLC has contributed their recommendations the Web site and is completely supportive of it. 
"We are 100 percent behind that Web site," he said. 
Instead of pursuing advertising through the online venue, as the task force had initially thought, they will be looking at innovative ways to adverat tise throughout campus. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
Rugby 
continued from page 1 
"There's almost no hostility." 
But the club team will be more than simply a social team. They will be competi­tive, she said. 
Although the team cannot play games this semester because it is too late to partic­ipate, Konkey said she hopes the team will at least play exhibitions games with teams from around the midwest by next semester. 
Konkey said she is hopeful that the Notre Dame team will be successful because rugby requires intelligence. 
"It's an intelligent person's game. You need to be able to think quickly," she said. "That's also another reason why I'm really excited to have a Notre Dame team. We're just going to have such a high quality of player to work with because we have really athlet­ic girls, but we also have real­ly intelligent girls," Konkey said. 
Konkey said she didn't understand why people love rugby until she played. 
"All my friends were so crazy about rugby and they were like, wait until your first game, just wait until you play," she said. "I was like, I 
Series 
continued from page 1 
focused on authors like G.K. Chesterton, Evelyn Waugh, Flannery O'Connor and J.R.R. Tolkien. 
Wales said, "Any artist who may not be nominally Catholic can still contribute to truth, beauty, and goodness, and that's what the Church is all about. It's the same truth." 
The focus on literature through the annual lecture series is especially important to Wales, who designed her own major in Roman Catholic Studies as an undergraduate at the University of Pittsburgh by focusing on Catholic authors. 
''I've lived [in South Bend] for two and a half years, and when I first heard about this series I knew I would look for­ward to it every year," Wales said. "I hope the students look forward to it every year and it continues to grow." 
Wales, Ratiu and under­graduate assistant Tom Ever~tt all said you don't need to be an expert on any of the authors to enjoy the series. 
"There were a number of people in the audience who had read neither Dante nor Eliot at the first lecture, but it still helped them," Wales said. 
Everett said of the second lecture on Simone Weil, "As one who didn't know too much about the topic, I thought the speaker did a wonderful job of bringing to life an author not too many undergraduates know. The lecture didn't assume too much." 
The lecture series is only one example of the events 
don't think I'm ever going to be as crazy as you guys. And then, I'm telling you, within two minutes of my first game, my mind was blown. I was like where was this sport my entire life?" 
Konkey said experiencing the sport is the only way to truly understand its appeal. 
"It's one of those things where you have to play to even be able to try and under­stand what I'm trying to say," Konkey said. "You cannot put it into words why. It's a really bizarre thing, but I've come across it time and time again." 
Konkey also said girls who wish to play do not necessari­ly have to be big and strong. 
"That's another huge mis­conception that people have. In that way, it's very similar to football in that there's all dif­ferent sized people and they fulfill different positions and they fulfill different require­ments for the team," she said. 
Konkey encouraged anyone who is interested in the sport to give it a shot. 
"Don't let your fear hold you back," she said. "Give it a shot and stick with it through to your first game. Because once you get on that pitch you're never going to want to leave." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
that the center holds for undergraduates. The center hosts a film series in the spring, with the 2010 sched­ules including "Big Fish" and "The Crucible." 
The center is also known for its Breaking Bread dinners, which were designed as a chance for faculty and stu­dents to come together over a delicious meal, a 15-minute talk and a "big piece of choco­late cake" for dessert. The Bread of Life dinners follow a similar format but focus on life issues and are intended for seniors, although students of any class are welcome. With any luck, you may even meet your future spouse. 
"I met my husband at an event in Pittsburgh that was very similar to the center's Breaking Bread dinners," Wales said. 
Even if matchmaking is not in the cards for you, the cen­ter's events will contribute to your understanding of the Catholic intellectual tradition. 
"The backbone of the Catholic worldview is that truth exists and morality is an absolute," Wales said. "In 'The Royal Tenenbaums' it's because there's a 'should be' and the story is redemptive. Any story of redemption par­ticipates in some way in the Paschal Mystery." 
Whether it's through "The Royal Tenenbaums," "Big Fish," or a lecture on Dostoevsky, the Center for Ethics and Culture has some­thing to interest any student and encourage each one to learn more about the Catholic faith. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
Rooney 
continued from page 1 
Hutchings said. "However, racial prejudice itself is also associated with racial policy preference." 
Sniderman presented a self­critique of his own past stud­ies, in which he failed to give adequate weight and signifi­cance to positive attitudes held by white individuals in regard to African Americans, since he said he believed that as well as Center faculty and students posed questions regarding Obama's unique­ness as an African-American candidate, as well as what additional factors beyond race could have contributed to his success. 
The conference continues through today and features discussion on a range of polit­ical issues, including gender, campaign communication and Congress. 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler@nd.edu 

such talk was "cheap," easy to fake and ultimately un­measurable. 
According to Sniderman, though, prejudice is a contin­uum, with favorable opinions being just as valid as negative ones. 
"The two evaluative score­cards are not independent of each other," Sniderman said. "As one becomes more con­sistently positive, they also become less negative." 
The lecture concluded with a brief question and answer session, in which the scholars visited the stadium tunnel on Friday, while 6,500 attended the pep rally on Irish Green. 
Before the game Saturday, 4,125 people attended events on Irish Green, Seamon said. He also said 485 cars were able to park on Burke Golf Course, although "there was limited parking on the golf course due to the weather." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
trespass." 
Each person was trans­ported to Saint Joseph County Jail. Police also issued one summons to an "intoxicated person for under age alcohol violation and released her to a sober adult," Johnson said. 

Of the 34 people removed from the stadium, most of the incidents stemmed from "impairment or possession of alcohol," Johnson said. 
Attendance for the University's game day initia­tives was also high Saturday, assistant vice president for University Events and Protocol and director of Game Day Operations Michael Seamon said. 
Seamon said 4,013 people 
ND enters agreement with Boeing 
Special to The Observer 
The Boeing Company and the University of Notre Dame recently entered into a Master Sponsored Research Agreement whereby Boeing will fund research projects at the University with a near­term focus on technology translation. 
The agreement, the first of its kind under Boeing's recent­ly implemented enterprise­wide research strategy, distin­guishes Notre Dame as a pre­mier provider of applied research in aero-optics and flow control. Boeing will col­laborate with Notre Dame fac­ulty and research engineers in these disciplines which have application to current and future Boeing products. 

"Notre Dame's Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Department has been one of the premier programs in aero­optics and plasma flow con­trol," said Bill Bower, senior technical fellow at Boeing. "Boeing Research & Technology has worked with Notre Dame since 2002 in applying flow control to aero­optics under a number of Air Force contracts, and Integrated Defense Systems is currently collaborating with them in flow control applica­tions." 
The agreement provides a framework by which Boeing and Notre Dame will collabo­rate on research of interest to both organizations. Boeing will identify which research proj­ects have the potential to translate to performance improvements of Boeing prod­ucts and will work jointly with Notre Dame faculty and research engineers in the exe­cution of the research. 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 6, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ex-presidentoonvicted ofembezzlement 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica -A Costa Rican court has found former President Rafael Calderon guilty of embezzlement and sen­tenced him to five years in prison. 
Calderon, who was president from 1990 to 1994, was accused of receiving at least $520,000 in 2004 from a Finnish govern­ment loan to Costa Rica's social security sys­tem. 
Prosecutors alleged that about $8 million of the $40 million loan was split among eight officials, including Calderon, who at the time was president of the Social Christian Unity Party. Calderon has said he received the money as payment for consulting work. 
Bathroom break a ploy for bomber 
ISLAMABAD -A suicide bomber who killed five staffers at the U.N. food agency's headquarters in Pakistan on Monday was dressed as a security officer and allowed to enter the heavily guarded building after he asked to use the bathroom. 
The United Nations announced it was tem­porarily closing all its offices in Pakistan after the noontime bombing, which blew out windows and left victims lying in pools of blood in the lobby of the three-story World Food Program compound. 
"This is a heinous crime committed against those who have been working tirelessly to assist the poor and vulnerable on the front lines of hunger and other human suffering in Pakistan," U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki­moon said in Geneva. 
NATIONAL NEWS. 
Mom lets daughter ride in box on van 
ALBERTVILLE, Ala. -An Alabama woman has been charged with endangering the welfare of a child after police say she let her daughter ride in a cardboard box on top of their van. Albertville Police spokesman Sgt. Jamie Smith said the 37-year-old woman was arrested Sunday after police received a call about a minivan on a state highway with a child riding on top. 
Smith said the woman told police the box was too big to go inside the van, and that her daughter was inside the box to hold it down. 
Smith said the mother told officers it was safe because she had the box secured to the van with a clothes hanger. 
The 13-year-old daughter wasn't harmed and was turned over to a relative. A jail worker said the mother was out on bond Monday. 
Family tried to sell kidnapped baby 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -A Tennessee new­born kidnapped in a knife attack on his moth­er was placed in foster care with his three siblings after allegations arose that a family member tried to sell the infant, sources famil­iar with the case said Monday. 
Week-old Yair Anthony Carillo was recov­ered safely in Alabama Friday, three days after he was taken from his Nashville home. Soon after, the state took custody of the chil­dren away from his mother, 30-year-old Maria Gurrolla. An Alabama woman is in custody, facing federal kidnapping charges. 
Two officials confirmed the baby-selling allegations but spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to discuss the case. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Infant found dead in trash 
INDIANAPOLIS -Authorities are investi­gating the discovery of an infant's body in a trash container on Indianapolis' north side. 
The Indianapolis Star and WTHR-TV say a couple scavenging for metal found the body early Monday afternoon under trash near the top of the bin behind a vacant ware­house. 
Sgt. Matthew Mount, a spokesman for the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, says investigators aren't sure if the remains are those of a full-term baby or possibly a stillborn fetus. They also haven't determined the infant's sex or race. 
HONDURAS 

Government restores civil rights 
Interim president revokes decree that prohibited protest and shut down media 
Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA -The interim Honduran govern­ment on Monday revoked an emergency decree that prohibited large street protests and limited other civil liberties following the return of ousted Honduran President Manuel Zelaya. 
The decree, which result­ed in dozens of arrests and the closing of two pro­Zelaya media outlets, "has been completely revoked," Interim President Roberto Micheletti said at a news conference with U.S. Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican. 
Micheletti did not say whether the lifting of the decree would take effect immediately. He had said in a morning television inter­view it would be formally repealed Tuesday when the new order is published in the government's official gazette. 

Honduras' interim lead­ers issued the emergency order Sept. 27 in response to "calls for insurrection" by Zelaya as the ousted president sought refuge in the Brazilian Embassy after sneaking back into the country. He remains holed up in the Embassy with dozens of supporters amid and Channel 36, and it broadcasting over the seeking to be reinstated to international diplomatic blocked protest marches Internet. The station's serve out his term, which efforts to end the crisis. for several days. Zelaya owner, Alejandro Villatoro, ends in January. The U.S. 
The decree empowered supporters eventually ven­said authorities seized his has suspended millions of police and soldiers to break tured out to demonstrate, station's equipment and he dollars in aid to Honduras, up public meetings, arrest but in much smaller num­did not know when it would and its ambassador has people without warrants bers than before. be able to resume normal refused to meet with and restrict the news While the decree was in operations. Micheletti, in hopes of media, with armed troops force, the government also Zelaya was forced from pressuring the interim gov­stationed throughout the retook control of a govern­office with the backing of ernment to relinquish capital to enforce the order. ment Agrarian Institute the Honduran Congress power. 
It drew criticism even building that had been and Supreme Court for try­The Organization of from judges and congres­occupied by protesters. ing to hold a referendum American States, local rep­sional leaders who have They detained about 55 on rewriting the constitu­resentatives of the Catholic backed Zelaya's ouster. people and lodged sedition tion. His opponents Church and others have Many complained it would charges against 38, who charged he wanted to lift been meeting with the disrupt campaigning for were still in custody over the charter's provision lim­competing factions, seeking the November presidential the weekend. iting presidents to a single to negotiate an end to the election they hope will Police spokesman Orlin term -an accusation he standoff. But the two sides resolve the country's crisis. Cerrato said about 1,000 denies. remain divided over key 
The main effect of the people were detained for With the backing of much issues, including whether order was to close down violating a curfew that was of the international com­Zelaya can reassume the the two main pro-Zelaya imposed before the decree. munity, including the U.S. presidency before sched­media outlets, Radio Globo Radio Globo has been government, Zelaya is uled Nov. 29 elections. 

LEBANON 

Jailed journalist faces personal ordeal 
Associated Press deliver by cesarean section on Oct. 26. A journalist and documentary film­
The call-only their second since maker, he has worked for Newsweek 
BEIRUT -Newsweek reporter Bahari, 42, was arrested on June 21-for 10 years and has always been fully Maziar Bahari, who has been impris­was short, just a few minutes. And accredited with the Iranian authorities, oned in Iran for more than three even with the relief of talking to him, it said Newsweek's foreign editor, Nisid months, got troubling news: His wife is was bittersweet. Hajari. having a difficult pregnancy and will be The two were to have been together The magazine has appealed for delivering their first child without him. in London for the first glimpse at their Bahari's release on humanitarian 
Paola Gourley could hear the shock child -by ultrasound -when Bahari grounds. in her husband's voice when she told was arrested. On Sunday, she told him "There's a very strong humanitarian him she would be having the baby two the baby's sex, a detail she preferred to reason for him to be released so he can weeks early during a rare phone call keep private. be with his partner when she gives Sunday from Tehran's Evin Prison. The couple met in March 2007 in birth," Hajari said in a telephone inter­
"'What's wrong with you?' he kept London, where Gourley, 40, who is view Monday from New York. "If they asking," Gourley told The Associated British, practices law. Bahari was born (the Iranians) want to engage with the Press on Monday from her home in in Iran and emigrated to Canada, rest of the world and build trust, free­London. She has been placed on bed where he attended university and ing people like Maziar is a good way to rest by her doctor and is scheduled to obtained Canadian citizenship. start." 

page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
Immigrant received training in Pakistan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON An Afghan immigrant accused of plotting a terrorist attack in New York after receiving training in Pakistan was in contact with a senior al­Qaida operative, intelligence officials familiar with the investigation told The Associated Press. 
The CIA learned about Najibullah Zazi through one of its sources and alerted domestic agencies, including the FBI, intelligence officials said. 
U.S. intelligence organiza­tions first became aware of Zazi in late August, a senior administration official said. Interest in Zazi surfaced just weeks before prosecutors claim he was planning to strike on the anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. 
The intelligence and admin­istration officials declined to offer more details on the operative and spoke on con­dition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. 
The fact that intelligence officials learned of Zazi through a CIA source sheds more light on the govern­ment's claim that the charges against him are part of a broader, international case and begins to explain why the investigation triggered such a large offensive from the nation's intelligence commu­nity. 
It also shows the case stems from the CIA's coun­terterrorism efforts to track al-Qaida and not an investi­gation initiated in this coun­try by someone's suspicious actions, like most other domestic terrorism cases handled by the FBI. 
President Barack Obama began receiving briefings on the investigation in late August, updated at least daily and sometimes several times a day as intelligence officials were crafting their case against Zazi, senior adminis­tration officials said. 
Zazi initially was character­ized to Obama as a person of interest because of suspected involvement in terrorist activ­ities, the officials said. Obama's primary interest in those briefings was to ensure an attack was prevented and all involved in the plot were identified, the officials said 
The CIA declined to com­ment Monday, spokesman George Little said. 
Federal agents began watching Zazi in Denver in early September. He drove a rental car to New York on Sept. 9, but left the city to return to Denver on Sept. 12 after learning that investiga­tors were looking for him, prosecutors said. FBI agents raided three apartments in Queens two days after Zazi left the New York area. 
Zazi and his lawyer agreed to meet with investigators at FBI offices in Denver on Sept. 
16. And after three days of meetings, Zazi was arrested and charged with lying to federal agents. 
Speaking Monday in Colorado at a conference of police chiefs, Attorney General Eric Holder said the plot had the potential to kill scores of people. 
Zazi, 24, is the only suspect publicly identified in the ter­ror plot. More arrests are expected. Prosecutors have said three others in New York City worked with Zazi, although they do not current­ly pose a threat. 
Calls to Zazi's lawyer were not returned Monday. 
Zazi was initially arrested on charges that he lied to federal investigators. He remains held without bond and has pleaded not guilty to conspiring to use weapons of mass destruction. The charges related to his state­ments to investigators later were dropped. 
Zazi's father, Mohammed Wali Zazi, and a Queens, N.Y., imam, Ahmad Wais Afzali, face charges of lying to inves­tigators last month when first questioned about Zazi. 


Are you an A&l sophomore planning to Study Abroad? Please visit tl'm follow!l)g sltr 
httgf!a!.nd~dw/atm:lrmit,a~:h·hin~·Jnd-reguirem~nts{ 
to sucm.sfuUv tomplete your applit#tion. 

Office for Undergradu;tte Studits 104 O'Sh;wghnes~y Hill! Phone: (S74)6U·7008' 


Letterman apologizes to wife 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK David Letterman apologized to his wife on Monday's "Late Show," saying she had been "horribly hurt by my behavior." 
The late-night host vowed to repair his relationship with his wife, Regina Lasko. 
"Let me tell you folks, I got my work cut out for me," he said, according to an early tran­script of the program released by CBS. 
Monday's show was the first Letterman had taped since Thursday, when he disclosed that he had had sexual relation­ships with women who worked for him and said that he had been the victim of a $2 million blackmail threat. During the hour, he also apologized to his staff. 
"Inadvertently, I just wasn't thinking ahead," Letterman said. "My thanks to the staff for, once again, putting up with something stupid I've gotten myself involved in." 
He arrived on stage to applause and cheers from his studio audience. After drinking it in, he grinned sheepishly and inquired, with a mock stammer, "Did your, did your weekend just fly by?" 
After pausing for the audi­ence's sympathetic laughter, he went on: "I mean, I'll be honest with you folks -right now, I would give anything to be hik­ing on the Appalachian Trail." 
"I got into the car this morn­ing," he added, "and the navi­gation lady wasn't speaking to me. Ouch." 
In a more somber display, Letterman voiced his mea cul­pas. Regarding his wife, he said that, "if you hurt a person and it's your responsibility, you try to fix it." 
As Letterman faced Monday's show, and the shows that will come after, it was clear that how he deals with his messy sit­uation could prove to be a defining chapter in his long TV career. And, with any luck, it could clinch his recent ratings victory in late-night TV. 
The challenge seemed clear: Build on Thursday's startling confessional, a sort of Hugh Grant moment for Letterman, when he served as his own Hugh Grant. 
While Letterman has joked about his affairs with female staffers, it is unclear how many women he had sex with, and he has offered no specifics. 

But one of his affairs was with Stephanie Birkitt, who was an assistant to Letterman and fre­quently appeared on camera with the host in comedy bits. Birkitt went to live with Robert Halderman, a CBS News pro­ducer, who found her di1;try describing her relationship with Letterman and used it to help blackmail him, a law enforce­ment official confirmed Monday. The official spoke on the condi­tion of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. 
Halderman, a producer for the true-crime show "48 Hours Mystery," pleaded not guilty last week to extortion charges. 
The flood of attention on Letterman was inevitable, and the way he initially dealt with this maelstrom recalled an embarrassing dilemma for another star in 1995. 
For a celebrity the caliber of Grant, publicity -including speculation of career suicide ­was unavoidable when he was arrested with a prostitute on Hollywood's Sunset Strip 14 years ago. But then he retreat­ed to NBC's ''The Tonight Show" to try to explain. 
Host Jay Leno wasted no time before asking an instant classic of a question: "What the hell were you thinking?!" 
Grant's appearance provided him with some needed image rehab. It also vaulted ratings runner-up "Tonight" past Letterman's "Late Show," a leadership position Leno held through his retirement from late night earlier this year. 
Since then, Letterman has reclaimed a ratings edge over new "Tonight" host Conan O'Brien. 
And now he may have truly sealed the deal. With his mas­terful monologue last Thursday, Letterman single-handedly gave a TV performance to equal the Jay-and-Hugh moment. Implicit in everything he said about his own behavior was the unspoken question: "What the hell was I thinking?" 
It could be that Letterman's carefully calibrated act of self­disclosure has put him in the best spot possible to weather the situation -and even to milk it. Beloved by viewers and critics for decades, he has abruptly freshened the endur­ing Letterman brand and demonstrated he still has the ability to surprise even fans who thought they knew him well. 
Indeed, a legendary late-night host has nothing but praise for Letterman's skill at crisis man­agement. 
"To m,e, it seems Dave Letterman's handling of this is impeccable," Dick Cavett said in an e-mail. "Brave, direct, and -dare I say it? -manly. He has set a real example here of exactly how to behave when assaulted in such a sleazy oper­ation." 
It isn't the first time Letterman has shown finesse in managing a frrestorm. 
In June, he had a run-in with former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin over jokes made at the expense of her teenage daughter. He emerged from a tumultuous few days of protests and demands for his dismissal with a ratings jolt. And thanks to the dumb­luck timing of the flap, he also handily upstaged his much­hyped NBC rival just as O'Brien was taking over as "Tonight" host. 
Letterman apologized to Palin and her family in what became another one of his memorable performances. But he has never stopped making jokes at Palin's expense. 

Sand covers pesticides on ocean floor 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Clean sand and silt will be used to cover a vast deposit of the pesticide DDT and toxic compound PCB on the ocean floor off Southern California, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said Monday. 
The $50 million plan will target a Superfund site lurking in the waters off the scenic Palos Verdes Peninsula in order to reduce con­centrations of the chemicals in fish in that area. 
About 110 tons of DDT from a manufacturer and 10 tons of PCBs from industrial operations flowed for years through the Los Angeles County sewer system into the ocean and accumulated in a nine-mile-long swath. Now, an existing thin layer of silt over the contaminants is showing signs of erosion. 

Keith Takata, the EPA's Superfund director for the region, said the cap will be placed over the most contaminated sediment on what's known as the Palos Verdes Shelf. 
The government will also con­tinue programs aimed at educat­ing the public to not eat contami­nated fish. 
EPA project manager Carmen White said the actual capping won't happen until 2012, after the best method for placing the sand is determined. The new material can't simply be dropped from the surface because that would stir up the contaminated sediment and spread it. Rather, it must be released close to the bot­tom, White said. 
White said 800,000 cubic yards of clean sand are available from a Los Angeles harbor deepening project and sand could also be transferred from uncontaminated areas of the shelf. 
The contaminated sediment cannot be dredged up because that would release some of it into the environment, she said. Using a suction system would require treatment of huge volumes of water as well as the contaminat­ed sediment, which would take years, she said. 
The DDT was released from 1947 to 1971 by manufacturer Montrose Chemical Corp. into sewers that flowed into the Pacific. Widely used until its envi­ronmental impacts were recog­nized, DDT was banned in 1972. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
page7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
Jones 9,599.75 

Up ~n Cmrtptniff~ VQivm~.­

NASDAQ 
NYSE S&P 500 NlKKS (Tolt!(O) 

FTSE 100 (London) 5,024,33 +3:'\.~i' 
COMPANY '¥tcC~ $-GAiN PRlQ 
OilGROOP{C} +3.12 +(US 4.61 £&_ f? AME1UCA CP {MAC) +-JJ!J +0.61 Hi.% S&P !JfP R€-tf:lPTS (SPY) otL49 +L53 1144-04 CIT 0ROOP !NC tCI'T) -427 -.ZtOS Ut 
Treasuries 

10-YfAA NOTE -+Ot¢! +0.003 3.21 n-va:ex IH!.t (LOO 1LOO (LOfl 3(H£ARSOND +(130 +OJHZ 4.0:7 S·YEAA k(JTE +045 +OJliC ?-22 
Commoditu:~s LICHt CRUD£ Ult>tk} ~-4},46 f@Al row (t!Ttor w.} +--:t:uo LOHJt ~K ELUE$ (~ntsltb.} <L*S '7'710 

YEN &9-~ fUP.O 146% CANADIAJ'i DOLLAR L0098 SPJTISH POOMJ 1.5945 
IN BRIEF 
Disney names new top exec. 
LOS ANGELES -The Walt Disney Co. on Monday named Disney Channels Worldwide top executive Rich Ross as its movie studios chairman, following a year of disappointing movie results and the abrupt departure of its former chief, Dick Cook. 
The announcement puts Ross in charge of worldwide production, distribution, and mar­keting for all of the entertainment giant's film labels, including Walt Disney, Touchstone, Miramax and Pixar. Ross, who turns 48 on Wednesday, also will head Disney's theatrical and musical groups. 
His appointment takes effect immediately and follows Cook's resignation three weeks ago. 
Disney's studio revenue has fallen in each of the last five quarters, sinking from $1.82 bil­lion in the March quarter of 2008 to $1.26 bil­lion in the quarter ended in June this year. The studio also posted a $12 million operating loss in the June quarter, down from a $97 mil­lion operating profit last year. 
After blaming a consistent decline in the sales of DVDs, in May CEO Robert Iger called the studio out for having a weak slate. Among its recent misses have been the high-priced "G-Force" and "Race to Witch Mountain." 
Toyota recalls 3.8 million vehicles 
WASHINGTON -Toyota Motor Corp. official­ly recalled 3.8 million vehicles in the United States on Monday to address problems with floor mats that could cause the gas pedal to stick and cause a crash. 
The automaker formally informed the federal government of the recall in a letter Monday. It will be Toyota's largest U.S. recall and the country's sixth-largest recall, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
The recall includes 2007-2010 model year Toyota Camry, 2005-2010 Toyota Avalon, 2004­2009 Toyota Prius, 2005-2010 Tacoma, 2007­2010 Toyota Tundra, 2007-2010 Lexus ES350 and 2006-2010 Lexus IS250/IS350. 
Chris Santucci, Toyota's assistant manager for technical and regulatory affairs, wrote in the letter to NHTSA that there are 3.8 million vehicles involved but "this estimate is subject to change as Toyota refines the number of affect­ed vehicles by model. 
Alaska's free land offer fails 
Tiny town forecloses on 18 of the 26 lots it gave away free to boost population 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska­Reality trumped the dream for most winners of a land giveaway in Alaska's rugged interior. 
The town of Anderson ­population 300 -is fore­closing on 18 of 26 large, spruce-covered lots it gave away because the new owners did not develop them as required. 
"It sounded good in the­ory. Oh yeah, free land. But the reality is it costs a lot of money to build up here," said Eric Warner, one of the few to build a home, on Monday. 
Officials blame a lack of local jobs and a bad econ­omy for the failed home­steading experiment devised by high school stu­dents to boost the dwin­dling population of the town, 75 miles from the regional hub of Fairbanks. Nobody believes anyone was scared off by reports of the occasional day of 60-below weather. 

The March 2007 give­away prompted thousands of calls from around the world. By the day of the land grab, 44 waited in line. Many camped out in weather as cold as minus­25 for a shot at the 1.3­acre lots, which went to a 20-mile drive away. The family is now living away could result in a 25 the first 26 people to claim "It's like a TV show," she in their nearly completed percent success rate. them and put down nonre­said. "It all looks like fun 3,300-square foot home, "It wasn't a complete fundable $500 deposits. and games until you get along with four dogs, an failure," he said. "It was a 
Under the rules, winning here." iguana, a tortoise and four learning process." applicants were supposed In hindsight, the city fish, said Warner, a techni­The project could have to build a house measur­should have conducted cal sergeant with the worked out better under ing at least 1,000 square some kind of screening Alaska Air National the original vision of stu­feet within two years. process on the would-be Guard. dents, said Daryl Frisbie, a 
Many of the winners, land owners, Anderson Two other houses have former local high school however, never came back Mayor Keith Fetzer said. gone up, but one of the teacher whose social stud­or communicated with the "I think it was about the homeowners is leaving ies class developed the town, even to respond to free. Everyone sees free," because his home did not idea. Instead, everyone formal letters asking what he said. "Even though it's meet his bank's building focused on the free part, their intentions were, City free, it's not really free. standards, according to causing locals to become Clerk Darla Coghill said. You've got to have the Fetzer. envious because they She still hears daily from resources to develop it." Three other lots have missed out on a lot and others interested in get­Warner had just moved received construction dividing the community, ting some free land, but from Boise, Idaho, to schedule extensions and Frisbie said. she tells them Anderson is Anderson to take a job at one has been returned to "Unfortunately, some­out of that business these nearby Clear Air Force the town. A bed and where along the way, the days. Station when the land deal breakfast is being built on student perspective and 
She thinks most out­was announced. A married another lot and may be original intent was lost siders couldn't cut living in father of four, Warner expanded over more and that was lost when the a place where the nearest rushed to stake a claim for space, according to Fetzer, word free came in, gasoline and groceries are a lot and was first in line. so he estimates the give-Frisbie said. 

OnlyTyreeoffers tobuyChicagoSun-Tlilles 
Associated Press In a brief memo Monday evening, Tom Thibeault, executive director of 
Sun-Times Media Group Chairman the Chicago Newspaper Guild, which 
CHICAGO -No one else stepped for­Jeremy Halbreich informed company represents editorial workers at the Sun­ward with a bid for the bankrupt employees that no other potential buy­Times newspapers, was not immediate­Chicago Sun-Times before a Monday ers came forward. He said he hopes a ly returned. evening deadline, leaving just one offer Delaware bankruptcy court can now Tyree, 51, grew up on Chicago's for the storied newspaper that's rapidly approve a sale to Tyree on Thursday. South Side and now heads Mesirow rmming out of the cash it needs to stay In his memo, Halbreich struck an Financial, a financial services firm. He in business. upbeat note, saying he continued "to be leads a group that has offered to pay $5 
The standing offer for the parent confident that all of the conditions to million for assets of the Sun-Times company, the Sun-Times Media Group the completion of that transaction, Media Group, which also runs more Inc., is from hometown investor Jim including the approval of all of the than 50 suburban publications. The Tyree, who has insisted that workers required union contract amendments, investors also would assume about $22 agree to concessions before he'll seal will be in hand before we appear million in liabilities. the deal that could be the paper's last before the Court." A judge said last month that the par­chance of survival. As of Monday, five of the Sun-Times ties should have until December to 
Tyree has said he will walk away if all unions had said they wouldn't agree to agree, but media group executives have of the more than dozen unions at the the concessions, nine had agree and said they don't have the cash to hold newspaper do not accept concessions, two hadn't yet voted, according to Sun­out until then. They've said the compa­including locking in 15 percent pay cuts Times spokeswoman Tammy Chase. ny could shut down for good, jeopardiz­that were meant to be temporary. A message left Monday evening for ing more than 1,800 jobs. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
Ohio governor delays executions
Man found guilty 
Associated Press 

killing 6-year-old 
Associated Press 
BRUNSWICK, Ga. -A jury deliberated for about two hours Monday before finding a Georgia man guilty of murder and child molestation in the death of a 6­year-old boy whose body was later discovered wrapped in trash bags and dumped near a road. 
The jury in coastal Brunswick convicted David Edenfield, 61, in the March 2007 sexual assault and choking death of young Christopher Michael Barrios. 
The jury now must decide whether to sentence Edenfield to death or life in prison. 
Edenfield is the first of three suspects to stand trial for the boy's saying. His wife and grown son have also been charged with molesting and killing the boy, then hiding his body. 
The sentencing phase of the trial began soon after the ver­dictwith Christopher's family telling jurors of the boy's smile ­brightened by stainless-steel caps on his front teeth -and the grief that still lingers 2 1/2 years later. 
"Sometimes you just want to die, or catch yourself looking for Christopher to come home as if it never happened," said Sue Rodriguez, Christopher's grand­mother. 
The boy lived in a Brunswick mobile home park where his father and grandmother had homes. He would pass the Edenfields' trailer when walking between them. 
Because of pretrial publicity, the jury was selected from resi­dents who live some 90 miles away, and the jurors were sequestered in Brunswick, 60 miles south of Savannah. 
District Attorney Stephen Kelley, in his closing argument to the jury, described the slain kindergartner as a "precious blessing, thrown away in a trash bag." 
"Why would anyone want to rape a child? Why would anyone murder a child?" Kelley said, sounding both close to tears and rage. "It tears the very fabric of my soul to shreds just thinking about those questions." 
Kelley replayed for the jury por­tions of Edenfield's videotaped confession in which he described watching, along with his wife, as their grown son stripped the boy and molested him in their mobile home. 
On the tape, Edenfield said he rubbed his undressed body against Barrios, who begged them to stop, then placed his own hands on top of his son's as his son choked the boy to death. 
"It's my fault. I should've been a grown man and stopped it right then, but I didn't," the elder Edenfield tells a police detective on the tape, recorded a day after the boy's body was found. "I should be punished for the crime." 
Defense Attorney James Yancey Jr. urged jurors not to assume Edenfield's confession was gen­uine. Edenfield, Yancey said, like­lytold police what they wanted to hear after investigators repeated­ly assured him he'd done nothing wrong and wouldn't go to jail as long as he told the truth. 
He described the defendant, who sat passively in the court­room, as a man who worked long hours at a fast-food restaurant to support a wife and son who left him feeling defeated. 
He said Edenfield knew his wife, Peggy Edenfield, was unfaithful to him and their 34­year-old son, George Edenfield, 
was both mentally disabled and a convicted child molester whose behavior was beyond his father's control. 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Gov. Ted Strickland on Monday delayed the state's next two executions to allow a full review of lethal injection procedures, the latest in a series of unprecedented capital punishment develop­ments in Ohio. 
Strickland ordered the reprieves for condemned inmates Lawrence Reynolds, scheduled to be executed Thursday, and Darryl Durr, scheduled to die next month, in the midst of a legal battle over Reynolds' execution. 
Reynolds' execution was delayed until March 9, Durr's until April 20. Strickland said the Ohio corrections depart­ment needed more time to fin­ish updating protocols for deal­ing with long delays in finding suitable veins on inmates. 
The surprise announcement Monday came as the U.S. Supreme Court weighed whether to allow Heynolds' exe­cution, for strangling his 67­year-old neighbor in 1994, to proceed. Earlier Monday, a panel of the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals had delayed the execution, citing problems with the planned Sept. 15 exe­cution of Romell13room. 
Strickland stopped Broom's injection after executioners failed to find a vein after two hours. Until it was halted, the execution had taken the longest in Ohio to date, and Strickland's order to stop it was unprece­dented nationally since the country resumed executions in the 1970s. 
Ohio has put 32 people to death since 1999, when execu­tions resumed there. 
Strickland said prison staff has been researching backup or alternative procedures for lethal injection since Sept. 15 that would comply with Ohio law. 

"Although they have made substantial progress in this regard, more research and evaluation of back-up or alter­native procedures is necessary before one or more can be selected," Strickland said. 
The backup procedure will also require training and other preparation, Strickland said. 
Death penalty experts say it could be months before it's clear what effect Broom's case could have on executions else­where. 
Texas executed two people ment of the IVs. 
Broom's execution is on hold while his attorneys prepare for a Nov. 30 federal court hearing. They argue that an unprece­dented second execution attempt on Broom violates a constitutional ban on cruel and unusual punishment. 
The impact of Broom's case nationally will probably become clearer once U.S. District Judge Gregory Frost holds that hear­ing, said Deborah Denno, a Fordham University law profes­sor and lethal injection expert. 
The reprieves Strickland issued Monday provide some insight into the governor's posi­
immediately after Broom's execution was stopped. Virginia is preparing to put Washington­area sniper John A I I e n Muhammad to death next month. 
Jon Sheldon, Muhammad's attorney, said he had no plans to raise an injection issue as part of an upcoming appeal. lie said it's difficult to challenge the 

"Although they have made substantial progress in this regard, more research and evaluation of back-up or alternative procedures is necessary before one or more can be selected." 
Ted Strickland Governor, OH 
tion on how Ohio executes people, since he could have gone even further, said Lori Shaw, a University of Dayton death penalty expert. 
What he hasn't done is put a morato­rium on exe­cutions," she said. "He took this step, but he didn't take a greater leap." 

constitutionality of injection in Virginia because the state keeps many details of its process secret. 
Virginia, unlike Ohio, does not permit witnesses to view the insertion of the IVs. It also shields its protocols, consider­ing them related to security, said Larry Traylor, spokesman for the Virginia Department of Corrections. 
Texas also does not permit anyone to witness the place-
Judge Boyce Martin said Broom's case raises questions about Ohio's lethal injection procedures, including the com­petence of the state's execution team. 
"Given the important consti­tutional and humanitarian issues at stake in all death penalty cases, these problems in the Ohio lethal injection pro­tocol are certainly worthy of meaningful consideration," Martin wrote. 


Catholic 
Reality showparticipant 
Che:lfities 

suicide note discovered 
USA® 

Former VHl contestant flees and kills himself after allegedly murdering his ex-model wife 
Fr. Larry Snyder~ President ofCatholic 
Associated Press 
BUENA PARK, Calif. -A reality show contestant charged in the gruesome slay­ing of his ex-model wife left a suicide note on his laptop that says he considered her the love of his life but thought she was cheating on him, a police spokesman said Monday. 
The 1 1/2-page typed note, titled "Will and Testament," was found on the hard drive of Ryan Jenkins' laptop after the former VHl contestant hung himself in a Canadian motel room, said Sgt. Bill Kohanek. 
Jenkins, 32, also apologized to his family for causing trou­ble but made no mention of Jasmine Fiore's slaying, Kohanek said. 
"About half of the letter described how much he loved her, and in the same breath, he would talk about how frus­trated she made him and that he felt very jealous about some of her relationships and that frustrated him immense-
Charities USA \viU discuss:
ly," Kohanek said. 
Fiore, 28, was found in a suitcase in a Buena Park trash bin early on Aug. 15. Her nose was broken, she was badly 

• 'The mission ofCatholic Charities 
beaten and she was missing the last digit of all her fingers and her teeth -presumably 

• Getting involved in Catholic Charities 
to hamper efforts to identify her. 

• Professional and cntry..Jevcl positions
Police ultimately learned her name by tracking the serial 
number on her breast implants, but not until Jenkins had a three-day head start on 
Tu~:sda v•. October 6. 2009
his escape. Jenkins, who appeared on 
" 
5:00'"(r;(WJ J}.m.
"Megan Wants a Millionaire," fled for his native Canada 24 
Pizza Pro\'ided
hours after Fiore's body was found. The son of a prominent Calgary architect was found 

l i'\ ~ V l~-H ~ I l i' 0 ~: · N···: c· 1 ~I"I·~ 1·· 1··)· ·.·\ 1· t·· f''
' ., . . : l '?:: : . ,. 
.~\:l ~ 

1 . «·-· ,· ,: ,., : ... l, .,, "' 
days later in an isolated motel in Hope, British Columbia, where he had committed sui­cide. 


~ ~ ~ A ~
Kohanek says detectives believe the note was written Aug. 20, the day he checked 

For infol'mation cm1Uu:t (574) 63J..J277 • .Jean.Meadeai'nd.edu 
into the motel and three days before his body was found. 

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Twin doctors commit drug, sex crmes 
Jury selection beginsfor pediatrician brothers that used medical practice to provide victimsfor sex acts 
The 53-year-old doctors have practiced in Butler County for more than 20 years, and authorities said the alleged abuses date back to 1987. The county is located about 30 miles north of Cincinnati. 
Mark Blankenburg, wearing a suit and tie, appeared calm as jury selection started. 
The court called 150 poten­tial jurors, about three times the normal amount, using a conference room for question­ing because the courthouse's largest courtroom was occu­pied. Officials did not say why such a large jury pool was called. The case has gained much notoriety in the city and the trial is expected to last two weeks. 
Common Pleas Judge Keith Spaeth sought to seat 12 jurors as well as up to four alternates by the end of the day, but only about 20 had been eliminated by mid-after­noon. 
Spaeth reviewed the charges with potential jurors and pool them on several issues. At least six had children or grandchildren who had been patients of one of the doctors, and one woman had worked for Mark Blankenburg until February. 
The jury will decide 16 sex charges, with the judge ruling on about 25 remaining counts, including money laundering, bribery, corrupt activity and drug charges. 
Spaeth last month separated additional pornography charges involving young boys from Mark Blankenburg's cur­rent trial charges. A second trial date on the pornography charges has not been set. 
Blankenburg's twin, Dr. Scott Blankenburg, faces a separate trial in April. 

Mark Blankenburg was first indicted on 36 felony counts in December. A dual indictment in March included more counts and accused him of committing sex acts on minors, providing them with prescription drugs, paying them for sex, money launder­ing and bribing them not to tell authorities. 
Governtnent changes child support policies 

Associated Press 
HAMILTON, Ohio -Jury selection began Monday for the first of two twin brother pediatricians charged with sex and drug crimes against minors, some of them former patients. 
Assistant Prosecutor Lance Salyers has said Mark Blankenburg and his brother used their medical practices to provide them with victims and with money for sex acts or bribes. 

Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. ­Changes in how state govern­ments are allowed to disperse child support payments to wel­fare families has put more money in the pocket of West Virginia resident Becky Salmons, allowing her to buy school supplies and medicine for her 17 -year-old daughter. 
West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Washington are among the states taking advantage of changes in federal law that encourage states to stop using the money to reimburse state and federal welfare services and instead use it to help poor families get back on their feet. 
For some families, th-e change means hundreds of extra dollars a month. 
Until a year ago, most of the $225 Salmons' ex-husband paid each month went to the government. Now, she gets all the money. 
"Moneywise it was rough," said Salmons, who moved in with her mother in southwest West Virginia following her divorce three years ago. "We just had to scrimp and save, but family members would help out as much as they could." 
The policy changes were a gradual philosophical shift for child support payment pro­grams that began a decade ago and were reinforced by Congress in 2006, said Vicki Turetsky, commissioner for the Office of Child Support Enforcement in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. States had until Oct. 1 to at least take some small step toward putting more money into welfare recip­ients' hands. 
Federal officials hope the money will help welfare fami­lies become more self-suffi­cient, thereby reducing the demand for food stamps and other government assistance. 
Turetsky said a pilot project in Wisconsin showed parents were more likely to pay child support and pay it in a timely manner if the money went to their children rather than reimburse government agen­cies. 
"The net cost to the govern­ment was minimal because parents were paying more and families had less need to receive public assistance," Turetsky said. 
The federal Office of Management and Budget esti-

Study Abroad in 
Angers, France 
Information Session 
Tuesday. October 6 7:00 p.m. 
125 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline: November 15,.. 2009 More Information Available at www.nd.edu/""'ois/ 
mates the changes could result in $4.9 billion in savings nationwide over 10 years as more families leave assistance programs. 
The federal policy changes allow states to choose from a smorgasbord of options to fun­nel current and overdue child support collections to current and former families receiving Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or TANF. 
Many states have been slow to embrace all the changes, though, because of severe budget problems. 
Turetsky said West Virginia was the first state to implement all the options. 
West Virginia Child Support Commissioner Susan Perry said there is a potential to put $85 million in child support into the hands of about 18,000 families. 
Body part harvester sentenced 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -A former North Carolina body parts har­vester was sentenced to eight years in prison Monday for what prosecutors described as a heinous fraud scheme in which he falsified medical records of cadavers so tissues could be sold for transplant. 

Philip Guyett Jr., 42, pleaded guilty to three counts of mail fraud in March. Prosecutors said he went to great lengths to conceal medical problems of cadavers he gathered in Las Vegas and then in Raleigh, using fake blood samples and hiding .details about cancer, drug use or a case of hepatitis c. 
Investigators said Guyett showed no respect for the bod­ies he was entrusted to handle, and one sobbing woman at the sentencing yelled across the quiet courtroom, "He's a butch­er!" Guyett broke into tears sev­eral times, declaring that he had made a "dumb decision" in trying to get rid of tissues as his business was failing. 
U.S. District Court Judge Earl Britt showed no sympathy. He went above the sentencing guidelines while blasting Guyett for his questionable testimony on the stand and for actions that inflicted clear emotional distress on victims. Britt also stunned the courtroom by immediately sending Guyett into custody, dismissing his emotion­al request for time to say good­bye to his two young children. 
Guyett said he assumed that processors and other medical experts would catch any prob­lems with the tissues he was providing, which prosecutors disputed. 
"He was on the front lines of quality control," said Jason Cowley, the assistant U.S. attor­ney handling the case. "The whole system relies on people like him to be honest, truthful and forthcoming in the process." 
Guyett's case, along with another tissue procurement investigation in New Jersey, heightened concerns about an industry that has long relied on the honesty of its workers. 
Prosecutors said Guyett's bod­ies produced 2,600 tissue prod­ucts, with 785 of those implant­ed into humans. They argued that 127 patients received tis­sue from donors with question­able medical histories and at least one victim contracted a staff infection that his doctor believes was linked to Guyett's unsanitary procurement of tis­sue. 
Betty Ogletree, 71, of Fort Valley, Ga., said she suffered complications following a sur­gery in 2004 that she believes were linked to Guyett. 
"I feel like I'm a prisoner in my own home because I can't go anywhere and can't do any­thing unless someone carries me," said Ogletree, who was brought to the courtroom in a wheelchair. 

And Jennifer Stainback, 29, of Raleigh, said Guyett claimed in 2004 that her father's body would be used for cancer research after he died of lung cancer. She said she now has recurring nightmares about how her father's body was han­dled. 

P.O. Box 779. Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JennMetz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez An DESIGN MANAGER: M"!J' Jesse CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4543 observerspori:s@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnOl @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to EdiUJr-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 
Thr: Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is pubfished Monday rhrough Friday cm::pr -during ~m and vacacion periods. A subscril'tion to The Observer is $L20 for one a.cadcmk. year; $65: fN Otu'! se~srer. 
The Obsavcr is pub!ish~d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Sc.'tld address c-orrections ro:­Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 TheObserver Periodical pQStage paid at Notr.e Dame P.O.Box:m and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining: Hall 
Now: Dame, lN 46556~0779 

The Observtr ii a member of the Asoociated Press-. All reproduction rights-are. reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Ashley Charnley Alex Barker Alicia Smith Mike Gotimer Tess Civantos Molly Sammon Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Kaitlyn Conway 
Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 
The health care debate makes sense only in the context of the transformation of our constitutional system. So let's do a quick review of Constitution 101. 
The Constitution of the United States was the first creation in history of a national government with only limited, dele­gated powers. Magna Carta, the English Bill of Rights and other docu­ments involved only limitations on the otherwise unlimited power of government. The Articles of Confederation, under which the United States functioned from 1781 until the Constitution took effect in 1789, created essentially a confederation ofsemi-autonomous states. The Constitution created a real govern­ment of the nation, but a government limit­ed to specified powers. 
Under the Constitution, neither Congress, nor the Executive nor the Judiciary, had unlimited jurisdiction. Article I, Sec. 8, specified that "The Congress shall have Power" to legislate only on specified sub­jects. Incidentally, no power was granted to Congress to regulate health care as such. Nor was Congress granted a power over education, apart from special situations such as land-grant schools. The states retained all powers not delegated by the Constitution. 
That constitutional system has gone the way of the bronze axe and the spinning wheeL One transformative event was the Supreme Court's definition in U.S. v. Butler (1936), that Congress' power to tax and spend for the "general welfare of the United States" was not limited to spending on the subjects on which Article I, Section 8, authorized Congress to legislate. But Congress' spending had to be for the "gen­eral welfare." Congress, however, has wide latitude to determille what is the "general welfare." While the Court said that the spending power was not a general power to regulate for public purposes, the Court has held that Congress can impose condi­tions on the subsidies it grants. South Dakota v. Dole (1987). That power to regu­late recipients of federal money is, to put it mildly, very broad, as General Motors, banks and other recipients of bailout money have learned. And as all of us will 

Charles E. Rice 
Right or Wrong? 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for fall break? 
Going home Staying at Notre Dame Going on a service trip Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
learn when the likely terms of Obamacare go into effect in 2013 (after Obama's reelection), there is no such thing as a free lunch. If you take the money, you take the controls. 
Many factors contributed over the years to the centralization of power in Washington. But in the past eight months, Congress' use of its spending power, and President Obama's unprecedented execu­tive edicl'i, have so expanded federal power that it amounts to an extraconstitu­tional coup. The federal takeover of health care, one-sixth of the economy, is essential to the success of that coup. It would open the door to federal controls not only on what medical care you can receive but potentially also on what you eat, how much you weigh, your exercise regime, the level of heat and noise in your home and what­ever else might affect your health and tl1erefore the cost of your health care to the taxpayers. The framers of the Constitution would be surprised, to say the least. 
Health care, however, is not the only cen­tralizing initiative in Congress. Another example is I LR. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009 (SAFRA). It advanced under the radar while every­one was talking about health care. SAFRA reduces the financial options of students seeking higher education. It passed the House and now is in the Senate Health and Education Committee. 
The federal government now subsidizes student loans through the Federal Family Education Loan program (FFEL), which offers subsidized loans to students from private lenders at low interest rates, and through the Direct Loan program (DL), in which the Department of Education is the lender and the funds come from the U.S. Treasury. The Higher Education Act sets the terms and conditions on FFEL and DL loans. FFEL was created in 1966. More than 2,000 lenders participate in FFEL, serving 4,400 institutions, with $70 billion in loans this year. The DL program, estab­lished in 1993, serves 1,700 institutions, with $22 billion in loans this year. 
SAFRA would termillate FFEL and shift all federal student loans, including Federal Direct Perkins Loans, to the DL program. SAFI{A would also create nine new pro­grams and otherwise increase federal involvement in early education, school con­struction, etc. On September 10, 40 cur­rent and former presidents of state, region­al and national financial aid associations alerted I louse and Senate committees to problems involved in implementing SAFRA as early as the 2010-11 school year. 

Beyond those implementation i'lsues, SAFRA would be a huge expansion of the DL program. It would dismantle a system that has worked fairly well for four decades. It would eliminate private sector jobs as well as consumer choice, competi­tion among lenders, and existing programs to reduce defaults. For non-wealthy high school seniors, SAFRA would make their potential for federal student loans depend entirely on approval by government bureaucrats or contractors retained by government. One concern is that the pre­dictably voluminous SAFRA regulations could provide openings for covert political or other illicit discrimination against bor­rowers or recipient schools. A more obvi­ous concern is that "Congress," in the words of Representative Paul C. Broun (R­GA), "has no business putting taxpayers on the hook for defaulted student loans when the private sector would gladly bear this risk." 
The objections to federal takeovers of the private sector do not arise from constitu­tional archeologism. Those takeovers vio­late the social principle of subsidiarity: "Just as it is wrong to withdraw from the individual and commit to the community at Large what private enterprise and industry can accomplish, so too, it is an injustice, a grave evil, and a disturbance of right order for a Larger and higher organization to arrogate to itself functions which can be performed efficiently by smaller and lower bodies. This is a fundamental principle of social philosophy, unshaken and unchangeable, and it retains its full truth today ... The true aim of all social activity should be to help individual members of the social body, but never to destroy or absorb them." Pius XI, "Quadragesimo Anno" no. 79. 
"Subsidiarity," said Benedict XVI, "is the most effective antidote against any form of all-encompassing welfare state." "Love in Truth," no. 57. 
When they elected Notre Dame's most obsequiously honored alumnus, the American people voted for both hope and change. They are, indeed, getting one of those. Congressman Broun asked the ques­tion about the change that, so far, has no answer: "When will the massive spending and Federal takeover end?" 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at rice.l@nd.edu or 633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Before you contradict an old man. 
my ]air friend, you should endeavor 
to understand him." 
George Santayana 
U.S. philosopher 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Students, 
I am a 1994 graduate of Notre Dame and will be attending the ND v. Southern Cal game on October 17. I will be bring­ing three residents of South Carolina who are respectively graduates of UNC­Chapel Hill, Davidson and Univ. of South Carolina. Two have never seen a Notre Dame game in South Bend, one has and loved it. I am writing you to make a request. 
You have now experienced several his­toric games but not a game that is his­toric before the first kickoff. My senior year Charlie Ward and the ESPN-dubbed "NFL team" that was FSU came to South 
ND vs. USC ­
Bend ranked number 1 and supposedly "unbeatable by such a slow and less tal­ented ND team." It was the first time that College Game Day had traveled to be on any campus for a game. We beat them, the team and the fans, with heart, desire and noise. 
As you gear up for the game under­stand· that the tone you set now will be the atmosphere that will permeate the stadium at kickoff. Talk to those attend­ing the game that are not students and get them just as pumped as you are and ready to yell themselves hoarse. Tell them about how special this team is this year. It is moments like this that make 

The trial of Colin Sullivan 
In regards to those out for Colin Sullivan's blood, I would just like to go on the record, as a woman, saying that not only am I not offended by his clearly joking remark, but I find it ridiculous that people are using this as yet another soapbox for their amusement. First of all, there are women on the Observer staff and they obviously knew his off hand comment was a joke so they published it. He found being a woman comparable to bad weather? Come on, ladies, he clearly wasn't serious and if you are going to begin censoring statements like that, you need a new hobby. For those of you that made the "WANTED" posters, don't you have exams to study for? Personally, I would find it slightly creepy if Colin had proclaimed he wanted nothing more than to be a woman. Ladies, I am perfectly happy to be a woman so no, Colin's comment does not offend me. I don't want to be a man either. I'll pose for my mug shot later. 
Hayley Coffing sophomore Pasquerilla East Hall Oct. 5 

What about living vvages? 
The economic crisis is not an uncommon theme of conversation today. Whether it be at family reunions, in class, in the dining hall, anywhere really, we hear of how many people are unemployed, how much we should be worried about our futures, etc, etc, etc. Yet, there is yet anoth­er question, another theme that is lacking from most conversations regarding the current economic crisis -does a living wage still apply? 
Does the Church stop demanding employers pay a living wage in times of economic crisis? Or more generally, is injustice and social sin accept­able in times of crisis? Pope John XXIII said the following: "We consider it our duty to reaffirm that the remuneration of work is not something that can be left to the laws of the marketplace; nor should it be a decision left to the will of the more powerful. It must be determined in accordance with justice and equity; which means that workers must be paid a wage which allows them to live a truly human life" (Mater et Magistra, par. 71). 
It is our duty, as a Catholic university, as one attempting to continue creating a culture of life through dialogue and practice, that we respect the right to life of the worker too, not only the unborn and the elderly, for if we believe in the seamless garment of life, then that means we must be seamless. We pose the question then, what does this mean for Notre Dame? What does Church teaching tell us about the wages we pay our workers? Can we still use the convenient excuse of "economic hardship?" Are our workers paid a living wage? Do we respect the life at all stages? 
I think it is a question we must ask the administration: Why do we still not pay a living wage? Why are we not living in accordance with Catholic teaching in this area? Is life not important at all stages? 
Alicia Quiros 
sen1or 
off campus Oct.4 
a call to artns 
ND what it is to so many graduates. It is opportunities like this game that make great ND teams. This game is your chance at history. But before a team can be great, its fans have to be great. The fans must believe that their participation in the game is the difference between winning and losing, from the moment the opposing teams gets off the bus; especially if they are acting like bone heads and rocking the bus as it pulls in. 
My request is simple: sell out, leave nothing in reserve, start making noise to disrupt the opposing offense on Friday and don't stop until you are comatose sometime late Saturday night. Make this game one for the ages by making the House that Rockne Built reverberate with the ghosts of legends past. It is the fans that cheer loud enough to wake up the echoes while the players march to victory. Make it so that alumni like me walk away from the game saying "Wow." Make my buddies walk away from the game in awe of the University of Notre Dame. 

Go Irish! Beat the Trojans!! 
Chris Kelly alumnus class of 1994 Oct.4 

Wanted 
Dear Feminist Vigilante Group, 

I have captured the wicked, wicked man known as Colin Sullivan. Thanks to your innova­tive signs placed around O'Shag that read Wanted: Colin Sullivan for the Crime of Sexism (thank God I read past the Wanted part because I first thought the ad was a Craig's List posting for companionship), I was able to track him down and bring him and his evil ways to justice. 
As of now he is locked in the makeshift jail cell that I created in my room, spewing obscenities about how women cannot drive, how their brains are only a third the size of ours and how they owe us a rib from the Garden of Eden Days. Fear not, for his obscenities will be swiftly crushed by the well-manicured and slightly effeminate hand of the law. It's thanks to your ad that I'm glad there are people on this campus who take themselves so seriously, people who make sure that no such despicable joke goes unpunished. I'm thank­ful for people like the Feminist Vigilantes who ensure that we watch our every move and make sure that every comment we utter is socially acceptable. 
Furthermore, they are the ones who force us to look deep within our souls with such questions as "Why do we laugh at the fact that some think it is worse to be a woman?" (I don't think I'm going to get much sleep until I answer that question). Feminist Vigilantes, you have shown us just how truly wicked men are because, in all honesty, a woman would never even think about cracking a joke about the opposite sex. They are above such actions. So, as a fellow brother in arms, I salute you. Please continue your diligence in mak­ing sure that every comment in the Question of the Day is taken seriously. Sexism is not a joke ... unless it's really funny. 
P.S. Do you want Colin dead or alive? How much will I be compensated for each? 
Mike Rooney junior O'Neill Hall Oct. 5 

Bring on the noise 
This weekend, we had probably the biggest home game of our season thus far, and I was both very impressed and disappointed by the student section. As far as top 10's from ESPN and rivals.com columnists go, Notre Dame Stadium is not one of the top 10 toughest stadiums for opposing teams. But with a program as renowned as the Fighting Irish it definitely should be. On Saturday, I noticed that during the first half the student section seemed relatively quiet compared to how I remembered it last year. The fresh­man section seemed to drown out the other classes. At some points, I could even hear myself cheering because not that many around me were joining in. However, toward the end of the game, the student section was booming, exclaiming the cheers and rooting on the team with full force. Our support of the defense during the final plays helped us to win the game. It may be easy to criticize the football team for their mistakes, but we should remember our role in cheering the team on, because we also have a significant effect on the outcome. On Oct. 17, we have to remain loud through the whole game and shake up the Trojans, giving the Irish a true home field advantage. Go Irish! Beat Trojans! 
Brian Conway sophomore St. Edward's Hall Oct. 4 
Clause needs updating 

After attending the community meeting for freshmen students spon­sored by the Core Council for GLBQ students at Notre Dame, I left feeling refreshed that there exists such a movement to welcome and accept gay students at Notre Dame. Last year the Princeton Review ranked Notre Dame as the fifth most homophobic universi­ty in the country, and hopefully with the efforts of the Core Council, we can rid ourselves of this distinction. But one glaring inconsistency made me question the sincerity of the University's efforts-the non-discrim­ination clause. 
"The University of Notre Dame does not discriminate on the basis of race/ethnicity, color, national origin, sex, disability, veteran status, or age in the administration of any of its employment, educational programs, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, athletics, recreational, and other school-administered pro­grams." Nowhere in its non-discrimi­nation clause does the University express this professed acceptance of homosexual students. How can gay, lesbian, bisexual and questioning stu­dents feel at home at Notre Dame if there is no promise of protection from discrimination? By the current clause, it is perfectly acceptable from a policy standpoint to deny athletic participa­tion, scholarship money and even admission to the school based on someone's sexual orientation. 
As long as the clause exists in the present state, no matter how much we claim to be accepting of differences in sexual orientation, there is no guaran­tee that gay students would even be admitted if they were open about their sexuality on their applications. If I am to believe that Notre Dame is the wel­coming place I have chosen as my home for four years, I have to believe that this type of discrimination doesn't occur, so why not change the clause and definitively say so? 

Melanie Fritz 
freshman 
Pangborn 
Oct. 4 

page 12 

"Zombieland" 
Columbia Pictures 

Director: Ruben Fleischer Starring: Jesse Eisenberg, Woody Harrelson, Emma Stone, Abigail Breslin 
By SZYMON RYZNER Scene Writer 
Zombies. They've been armmd for a while, they're undead, and they've become a bit of a pop-culture juggernaut appearing in more films, videogames and books 1han is possible to list. George Romero started 1his trend of undead corpses parading around scaring audiences around the world in 1968. "28 Days Later" 
lutionized the wmbie 
. ·genre by creating wmbies 
1hat were fast, mildly intelligent and very 

hungry. "Shaun of the Dead" was per­haps the pinnacle ofthe wm-corn, a romantic comedy wi1h wm­bies. "Shaun of the Dead" was British. "Zombieland" is the Americas version, although wi1h more of an action comedy vibe and significantly less subtle humor. In a weekend wi1h many hyped up new releases "Zombieland" also won the battle of the box office. The film works magic wi1h its cast and mindless wmbies creating a believable post-apocalyptic world and the hilarious terrors of liv­ing in it 
The plot of"Zombieland" is entirely driven by a castof four char-

THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
acters and their attempts to . survive the zombie threat. Columbus (Jesse Eisenberg), a neurotic youth, sur­vives the zombie apoc­alypse by cre­ating a list of "rules" such working on • cardia, limber­ing up and double tapping to make sure the zombie is dead, again. Tallahassee (Woody Harrelson), on th other hand, simply lives d 
trying to enjoy the little things, constantly seeking to eat one of the last Twinkies in the world and going to great lengths to find them. 
He also proves himselfas a master wmbie slayer trying to outdo himselfwith every single wmbie, attempting to kill each in a more spectacular fushion than the previous one. Wichita (Emma Stone) and little Rock (Abigail Breslin) are sisters who seem to have sur­vived the wmbie attack simply by scamming all of those around them. Each individual has proved to be successful on their own but the movie really becomes interesting when they all meet up and their on-screen chemistry is revealed. Ultimately, the foursome decide that the best place to go is a theme park called Pacific Playland that is supposed to be entirely wmbie-free. On their way they encounter wmbies, friendships and perhaps even a bit of romance to spice up character development and a growing attach-
Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
ers. 
The film 
"Zombieland" 
also has one of 
the single 
greatest 
cameos of all 
time. It takes 
place about 
1hree quar­
ters of the 
w a y 
through the 
film and is so 
hilarious and 
brilliant that 
mentioning too 
much simply 
wouldn't be 
fair to 
those who 
have not 
yet seen 
t h e 
film. 

the movie something special and is as great a scene for the film as it is for the star that appears and reminds everyone of his greatness. 
"Zombieland" succeeds in most of its attempts and ultimately becomes a very memorable, funny experience. It is a bit of a rein­vigoration for the wmbie genre and horror comedies may have found a new standard to follow. The action, the self-referential humor ... It all blends well and gives viewers a preview of 1hree up-and coming-stars that will no doubt continue to stayin the spot­light 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edn 
By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK One would think that a movie with a title like Assistant Scene Editor "Love Happens" would be a cliche sappy romantic comedy. And it is, for the most part. But there · are multiple dimensions to the story. Unlike the stereotypical chick flick, the movie takes place from the viewpoint of the male lead character Burke Ryan (played by Aaron Eckhart). a so­icalled self help guru and best-selling author of '"A-Okay!" a book about overcoming grief and 
ss. 
But it's obvious from the film's start that Burke is not at all a-okay or over his own grief and loss after the death of his wife 
in a car accident a few years back. 
The cliches commence when Burke conducts a bereavement seminar to fur­ther the success of his best-seller in Seattle, and falls for a florist named ise (Jennifer Aniston). Eloise is pro-ding flowers for his hotel and hap­to run into him after discreetly cribbling the word "quidnunc" on the wall, which we quickly discover is 
· art of what makes up her quirky yet ··endearing personality. 
The two inevitably fall for each other, but the way in which their relationship is portrayed is not very convincing or interesting, as there is little to no chemistry between Eckhart and Aniston. The relation­ship as a whole is not very well developed, as the movie seems to focus more on the character 
development of Burke, whom Eckhart does not portray very convincingly. 
On the other hand, the performances of the sup­porting actors add much to the quality of the rom­com as a whole. Judy Greer, as always, plays the quintessential best friend and confidante of Eloise, 
as a fellow underachieving florist named
l···ave· 1 t Marty. The ridiculousness of her personality 
Ve
,J·1 ·1la trdds well-deserved humor to the otherwise
appens U~
· ... ~ "· ·'i:1!i!.~i:~;~~~~1ri~£o1H:~£:~:~;:~; 

Walter, a contractor from Montana, who reluctantly drives the distance to Seattle for Burke's self-help seminar after suffering the loss of his 12-year-old son in a tragic accident. 
On a good note, one must give the movie props for a stellar soundtrack. Not only does the chick flick include an unexpected live performance by Oakland-based indie rock band Rogue Wave, but the well-crafted soundtrack also includes music by British alternative singer songwriter Badly Drawn Boy, electronic indie pop band The Postal Service and Austin-based instrumental post-rock band Explosions in the Sky. 
For the most part, "Love Happens" is a cutesy rom-com chick flick trying way too hard for some reason to cause its target audience to reach the same level of depression as would such tear-jerking Oscar-winning dramas as "Walk the Line" or "Brokeback Mountain," and surprisingly succeeding to the detriment of many of its viewers. "Love Happens" will not be critically acclaimed any time soon, but if you're in the mood for a really sad romantic comedy with all the good plot twists of a made-for-TV Hallmark movie, you're in luck. 

"Love Happens" 
Universal Pictures 
Director: Brandon Camp Starring: Aaron Eckhart, Jennifer Aniston, John Carroll Lynch, Judy Greer 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick akilpatr@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
page 13 
By NICK ANDERSON Scene Writer 
Music has shattered into a million seg­ments. Thanks to the Internet, all styles, influences and genres can be explored, experienced, interpreted and appreciated with thousands of other like-minded listen­ers. 
According to Google, there are several Web sites concerning "jazz polka fusion." This, undoubtedly, is good for our culture. Passionate fans will always push for better art than the spoon-fed masses. And as much as we music snobs have fought it, there's been a leveling of artistic merit, leaving qual­ity nearly subjective. 
What we've lost, however, is shared cul­tural experiences. There will never again be a performance like the Beatles on the Ed Sullivan Show, Woodstock or James Brown saving Boston in '68. Chuck Klosterman sug­gested that Johnny Carson's retirement rep­resented that last time our entire culture cared about a single event. Because of this, it's getting harder to define a generation by its music. Instead of a rock, punk, soul or rap culture, we've collected an amalgama­tion of styles, a schizophrenic representation of our modern mindset. While we're shuf­fling through the crowded, noisy back­ground of culture, a new style has emerged to match: the mash up. 
Within the past five years, mash ups have come as dose as the 2000s will have to a dominant music style. Of course, this is the result of a distinct lack of dear style, incor­porating any and all songs with an interest­ing hook, lyric or sound. Performers like Girl Talk, the Hood Internet and Team9 have worked their way to the top of the game, but the credit for the genre falls square on a sin­gle album from a DJ who quickly gave up the style. 
Back in 2004, Danger Mouse was relaxing at his home in London when he was struck by two albums, the a capella release of Jay-Z's "The Black Album" and The Beatles' "White Album." Instead of merely overlaying Hova's vocals on the Beatles instrumentation, Danger Mouse retreated into a room for two weeks. Deconstructing both albums to not only find similarities in beats, but tones, keys and atmosphere of songs, he spliced the two albums into a single, coherent product, creat­ing the first ambitious, intelligent and excellent collection of music mash ups. Tongue firmly in cheek, he titled it the "Grey Album." 
The unlikely pairing, the Jigga man with the four lads from Liverpool, brought a fair number of skeptics, but the obvious care Danger Mouse put into its construction pays off. While it cannot be said to top either album, it is the most interesting album of the last 10 years. Impressively, it actually becomes better on subsequent listens. As with many mash ups, the novelty wears off quickly. Instead, the listener is left with Jay's aggressive, steady flow layered over sonic details from the depths of the "White Album." 
Even with such an astonishing product, Danger Mouse only pressed 3,000 copies to pass out among his friends. As the songs spread across the Internet, EMI, the owners of the Beatles copyrights, took notice. The samples of both the Beatles and Jay-Z were illegal, even though the album was being distributed without charge. Danger Mouse stopped promoting the album after receiving a cease and desist letter. 
Even with the threat of legal action, sever­al Web sites took up the cause arguing fair use over the copyright restrictions. The issue came to a head on Feb. 24, 2004, referred to as Grey Tuesday, when more than 200 sites made a coordinated effort to spread the song. More than 100,000 copies were down­loaded and no lawsuits were filed. The only ways to acquire it remains illegal downloads or knowing someone with a copy. 
The "Grey Album" will be remembered for both its incredible artistic excellence in combining the greatest rock band with one of the greatest rappers and it relevance to our times. The fact that one of the best albums of the 2000s not only couldn't be purchased in stores but could actually get you punished may be the best explanation of the current state of our music industry. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

teners to public service and aware­
By MARY CLAIRE O'DONNELL Scene Writer 
For years, singers and songwrit­ers have been using their music to inspire their audiences to action. They deliver their message wrapped up in powerful and expressive melodies. Their words sing about ordinary people in extraordinary circumstances, and they can change the world. State Radio's Chad Stokes Urmston, Chuck Fay, and Mike "Mad Dog" Najarian attempt to live up to these ideals, and indeed do a fan­tastic job in their recent album, "Let It Go." 
The socio-politically driven band hailing from Boston is made up of action-driven members who are dedicated to social service and political activism. Before starting State Radio, Urmston was a mem­ber of indie band Dispatch, which was also dedicated to social activism. Dispatch disbanded in 2002, though it has had many suc­cessful reunions since. State Radio's songs tell gripping stories that greatly affect listeners, and the band offers opportunities for their fans to act upon these feel­ings by helping them raise aware­ness or by participating in differ­ent social service projects. 
It has been said that State Radip does not have a touring schedule, but rather an action calendar. In every town they visit on tour, the band continues their service and activism and often joins forces with organizations like Amnesty International or Oxfam America. The band definitely practices what they preach, either by riding bikes to concerts to raise support for Bikes Not Bombs or by hosting food drives to help Rock For A Remedy. 
Not only does the band perform numerous other good works, but singer and songwriter Urmston also weaves intelligent and moving lyrics that combine with evocative melodies to produce beautiful, inspiring songs. It is not every band that can mix references from the Civil War ("Held Up By The Wires") and references to Homer's Odyssey ("Blood Escaping Man") on one CD, all while rousing their lis­


"Let It Go" 
State Radio 
Notable Tracks: "Mansin Humanity," "Calling All Crows," "Knights of Bostonia," "Held Up By The Wires," "Blood Escaping Man" 
Contact Mary Claire O'Donnell at modonneS@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 

ness of political issues. 
The album kicks off with "Mansin Humanity," a story of the genocide occurring in Armenia. The title is actually a mispronunciation of the opening lyrics, "man's inhumani­ty," the theme of the song. The lyrics tell a chilling and heart­wrenching story of suffering. Crying out "please sir, there's women and children, they lie where they fell -they've done nothing wrong," Urmston employs disturbing yet moving imagery to rouse anger and disbelief and to encourage his listeners to take action to stop it. 
"Calling All Crows," the next song on the album, furthers this message of action. Calling All Crows (callingallcrows.org) is the name of the band's organization, which attempts to mobilize fans and listeners to promote human rights, specifically focusing on ending violence against women and inspiring public service. Although not specific to any one course of action, the song fits in well with the general theme of the album. The track has a great mellow beat and catchy lyrics, making the song an excellent choice either for blasting on a long car ride or for listening to while tackling piles of homework. 
One of the best tracks on the album, "Knights of Bostonia" is an almost anthemic ode to Boston, Urmston 's hometown. The song hearkens back to his childhood in Boston and his meeting of Najarian while Urmston was drumming on a bucket outside Fenway Park. Inspired by the style of The Clash, "Knights" evokes many well-known images of Boston with its rocking tune and witty lyrics, stirring pangs of homesickness in the aver­age Bostonian away from home. 
"Let It Go" delivers great music with smart lyrics. The melodies combine reggae, rock and pop­punk beats in an exceptional album that can be listened to often and is appropriate for any occa­sion. Furthermore, for a limited time only, the band is offering "Let It Go" and "Live At The Brattle Theater," 29 additional tracks, for only $14.99 on iTunes. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
NFL 

MeNab b returns to practice, expected to start 
Lions list Stafford as day-to-day with knee injury; Bulger tests bruised rotator cuff with light throwing 
ready. I think we know now we Daunte Culpepper replaced
.ssociated Press 
can win with someone else in Stafford at Chicago and would 
PHILADELPHIA there, with me in there. I have likely start Sunday at home Philadelphia quarterback more confidence now. I mean, I against the defending champion Donovan McNabb returned to was always confident in myself, Steelers (2-2) if the rookie can't practice Monday and is expect­but until you do it you're really play. ed to start Sunday when the not sure. But even if Stafford can't Eagles host the Tampa Bay "Even now just because I did practice after Tuesday's off day, Buccaneers. it for two games doesn't mean I Schwartz insisted that wouldn't 
McNabb has been out since can do it over an entire season necessarily rule him out. breaking his rib in the season or a whole career. But I think I "I wouldn't want to put that opener. He missed two games did help my confidence and the set of rules out there before before the Eagles had their bye confidence of others around him," Schwartz said. this past weekend. me." Schwartz stuck by one of his 
"He looked good," said back­Michael Vick is also expected policies, limiting information he up Kevin Kolb, who replaced to dress against the Bucs. His shares about injuries, by declin­McNabb for two starts, with the role is still undefined. ing to say if Stafford's kneecap Eagles going 1-1. "He was ''I'm just going to continue to is dislocated. throwing the ball well." do whatever I can to help the "You know my philosophy on 
Seated at his locker after team win," Vick said Monday. injuries as far as commenting practice, which was closed to One of those things is to lose a on specifics and things like the media, McNabb refused to few pounds. Vick, who missed that," he said. address reporters on any topic two years while he was serving Stafford wasn't in the locker from his health to whether local prison time for his involvement room Monday when it was open football team Temple is better in a dogfighting ring, is down to for the media, but he told than his alma mater, Syracuse. 212 pounds. He says his ideal reporters Sunday the same 
"No comment," McNabb said playing weight is 208. knee was injured in high school. each time to a string of ques­''I'm almost there," he said. "I "He hurt it in a freak accident tions. can see the light." on a Slip 'N Slide," his father, 

Coach Andy Reid was not John Stafford, said Monday made available to the media Stafford listed as day-to-day night. "After a hot day of work­The Lions (1-3) did not the 49ers in a 35-0 whitewash Monday and is not expected to ALLEN PARK, Mich.-The ing out in the summer with the respond too well to snapping Sunday. Steve Spagnuolo told the speak formally until his regu­Detroit Lions are publicly hold­football team going into his sen­their 19-game losing streak, team Monday, as he has every larly scheduled news confer­ing out hope Matthew Stafford, ior year, the guys were messing losing 48-24 at Chicago. week, to separate the upcoming ence Wednesday morning. the No. 1 pick in the NFL draft, around on a Slip 'N Slide and he "A couple of you astutely game against Minnesota from 
Running back Brian might be healthy enough to play got hurt." observed that I seemed a little the past failures of a franchise Westbrook, who also sat out the the Pittsburgh Steelers. John Stafford said his son ticked off after the game," that has an NFL-worst 14-game Eagles' last game with a knee "It's possible," Lions coach sent him a text message Schwartz said at his weekly losing streak and overall 5-31 injury, was back at Monday's Jim Schwartz said Monday. Sunday, letting him know he news conference. "And I'm here record since 2007. short practice, the team's first Stafford's right knee was hurt his knee and would have to say that after 24 hours, I'm "It's going to sound like a bro­since taking a week off for the twisted on a sack in the fourth an MRL probably more ticked off now ken record, but it's not going to bye. quarter of Sunday's loss against "I don't know anything more, than I was right after the game. change," Spagnuolo said. "Once 
McNabb was injured scoring a the Chicago Bears and he but I usually don't get much out "We never gave ourselves a we start winning, it's not going to rushing touchdown Sept. 6 in a immediately grabbed behind it of Matthew," he said. chance to win that game. There change then, either. win over the Carolina Panthers. and screamed in pain on the Schwartz did acknowledge were way too many errors in all "I don't know any other way to 
"I enjoyed being No. 1. I also ground. tests have been completed on phases of the game, but partic­do it." know the situation and I under­"He's day to day and we'll Stafford's knee. ularly in special teams." True to those words, stand it," Kolb said. "If I were know more on Wednesday," "It's just how he responds to Schwartz announced one Spagnuolo said offensive tackle forced to fill in again, I'll be Schwartz said. it," Schwartz said. change, putting third-round Alex Barron would likely be back 
pick Derrick Williams in as a in the lineup this week. Barron, kickoff returner after sixth­a first-round pick in 2005, was round selection Aaron Brown benched near the end of the half averaged 22 yards on kickoff after getting penalized for lining returns in the four games. up behind the line of scrimmage. 
"He was behind in training Spagnuolo didn't say what else camp, but our inefficiency in prompted the benching. He kick returns is glaring and it spoke with Barron on Monday needs to be addressed," and reminded him of the team's Schwartz said. "He's going to expectations for a player who have to do the job for us." was expected to become the 
The first-year head coach, dominant tackle after Orlando though, does not plan to shake Pace left. up his staff. "I have my reasons for what I 
did, and they've been expressed Bulger resumes light throwing to the team as well as Alex," 
ST. LOUIS -One thing the St. Spagnuolo said. "Just like I told Louis Hams do not have is a Alex, it's over, it's done, we move quarterback controversy. on." They've been shut out twice -Bulger did some light throwing once with Marc Bulger taking Monday, testing a bruised rotator the snaps and again on Sunday cuff, and Spagnuolo said he'd with Kyle Boller getting the start. probably be questionable for this 
The winless Rams (0-4) have week's game against the Vikings. been outscored 108-24 and are "That's a long way away from making far too many mistakes a week ago when he couldn't under a rookie coach that has really throw at all, but that's a stressed fundamentals from Day tough call," Spagnuolo said. "I 1, committing three turnovers think we'll rest it and see what that produced touchdowns for he can do on Wednesday." 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Nmre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service, 
574-273-3835 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com HOUSES 1 bdrm apartment for rent right off campus. 
$390/mo. 574-243-7777 2 BDRM APT. CLOSE TO NO. UTILITIES NOT INCL. CALL 313-382-0536 OR 574-386­
3896 
54684 TWYCKENHAM 
FoR SALE 
Ford 79 T-Bird 45 K Miles Orig Owner $8,000 574-299-0925 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking 
pass. 57 4-276-8507. Buying NO football tix. 
GAs. 574-277-1659 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NO s website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted. we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu 
Happy Birthday Ebeth! 
I've sentenced boys younger than you to the gas chamber. Didn't want to do it. I felt I owed it to them. 
A flute without holes, is not a flute. 
A donut without a hole, is a Danish. 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S wrru:: SERVICES

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
page 15 
NSCAA/adidas Men's Soccer Top 25 
team 

1 Akran 2 Maryland S Wake Forest 
4 UCLA 
5 North Carolina 6 South Florida 7 .· California 8 Harvard 9 Indiana 10 Monmo.uth 11 UC Santa Barb!)ra 12 Virginia 
13 Kentucky 
14 Duke 
15 Ohio Stale 16 Boston University 17 louisville 18 .UMB& 19 Old Dominion 20 Stanford 
21 Portland 
22 Charlotte 
23 Brown 
24 North Carolina State 25 Northwestern 
team 

1 North Carolin<L 2 Slanforli 
a uclA 
4 Portland 5 Flori&tState 6 Bostotl Coliege ¥F : 
1 Florida · 
8 South Carolina 9 Wake Fotest 10 NOTRE DAME 11 Santa Clara 12 Purdue 13 Rutgers 
14 California 15 Ohio State 16 TexasA&M 17 St. John's (N.Y,} 18 Virginia 19 Arilona State 20 Michigan Stale 21 UCF 22 Georgia 23 LSU 24 Maryland 25 San Diego 
USTFCCCA Women's Cross Country.Top:LO 
team 

1 Washington 

2 Oregon 3 Florida State 4 West Virginia 5 Villanova 6 Princeton 7 Staniord 8 Iowa State 9 Minnesota 10 ·tUinois 
around the dial 
MLB 
Tigers at Twins 5p.m., TBS 
NCAA Football 
Middle Tennessee at Troy 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

AP Quarterback Tim Tebow of the No.1 Rorida Gators prepares to pass during the Gators' win over Charleston Southern on Sept. 5. Tebow is recovering from a concussion he suffered in the game against Kentucky on Sept. 26. 
Tun Tebow deals with aftermath of concussion 
now. I know he's allowed to Meyer also said Tebow still Tebow was cleared to practice, 
Associated Press watch TV Earlier in the week could play ifhe got cleared late and insisted he wouldn't keep GAINESVILLE, Fla. -he wasn't allowed to do any­in the week. it a secret in hopes of deceiving Florida quarterback Tim thing focused. I guess that's "I can't answer that," Meyer the Tigers or making them Tebow is reading, watching normal protocol. And then said. "Can Tim play quarter­prepare for both quarter­television, attending class, after a week they acclimate." back at Florida against a very backs. studying film and doing just Meyer said Tebow has been good defense without practic­"I haven't even thought about everything else he was without headaches and other ing? I don't know that. It's about it," Meyer said. "A lot of before his concussion. symptoms for several days. He going to be as we move on." that I think is overrated. I think Except practicing. said Tebow was given balance The Gators (4-0) planned to one's a great proven player Florida coach Urban Meyer and memory tests Friday, practice Monday afternoon and one's got a lot of ability. Do said Monday that his star play­Sunday and Monday, and the with third-year sophomore things change? Are we going er has not been cleared to results were "very positive." John Brantley taking most of to abandon [our offense] and return to the field or play Tebow was hospitalized the repetitions at quarterback. all of a sudden be this !-forma­against No. 4 LSU on Saturday overnight nine days ago after Brantley has completed 73 tion, under-center, power, off­night. But Meyer said the 2007 his helmet struck teammate percent of his passes this sea­tackle team? No, we're not. Reisman Trophy winner is no Marcus Gilbert's leg during a son for 232 yards, with four "We might have some of that longer dealing with post-con­sack in the game against touchdowns and no intercep­in there. So is there an advan­cussion symptoms. Kentucky. tions. But he's played only in tage? I don't know that. You'd "From what I understand, Tebow didn't attend any of mop-up duty, so he still hasn't have to ask them, but I think a there's no symptoms and I Florida's practices last week, taken a meaningful snap in lot of that's overrated." think he's cleared to act like and Meyer said he wasn't sure three years at Florida. LSU coach Les Miles said Tim Tebow," Meyer said. whether Tebow would return Meyer said he would let Monday he was "saddened" by "Everything but practice right this week. everyone know when, and if, Tebow's injury. 
IN BRIEF 

49ers speak out about Seahawks' Matt Hasselbeck Semenya gains support of 
intentions to play Crabtree hopes to play Sunday African National Congress 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. -Coach Mike RENTON, Wash.-The Seahawks JOHANNESBURG -The ruling Singletary said Monday that the San expect Matt Hasselbeck to return to African National Congress says cham­Francisco 49ers would still like to have practice this week, with the hope their pion runner Caster Semenya should first-round draft pick Michael Crabtree quarterback will play on Sunday continue in women's athletics regard­play for the team this season. against Jacksonville. less of any gender tests. 
Responding to a report that Crabtree Coach Jim Mora said Monday he Party spokesman Jackson Mthembu and his agent were about to renew negoti­expects his three-time Pro Bowl pass­said Monday that Semenya had been ations with the team, Singletary said he er to test his broken rib when his 1-3 brought up as a girl and should there­would not close the door on Crabtree, even team returns to practice on fore "continue to run as a woman." though the wide receiver from Texas Tech Wednesday. Semenya won the 800 meters at the has yet to practice with the 49ers because Hasselbeck was hurt on a dive for world championships in August in of a contract impasse. the goal line on Sept. 20 at San Berlin. Before the final, the 
Crabtree, the No. 10 overall selection, is Francisco. He hasn't practiced or International Association of Athletics the only pick from this year's NFL draft to played since. Federations said it had ordered gen­remain unsigned. Mora said Hasselbeck moved around der tests. 
"Any guy that can play and help us win, some before he missed his 11th game The ANC has set up a group to sup­I would never say, 'No, we don't need him,' in two seasons Sunday at Indianapolis. port Semenya who it says in a state­" Singletary said. "We need all the good He was able to breathe deeply without ment has been "victimized and sub­football players we can get." as much pain as before. jected to unnecessary public scruti­
Crabtree is seeking money comparable Seattle lost their third starting offen­ny." to higher picks. He has turned down a sive linemen when left guard Rob Sims Former President Nelson Mandela's reported five-year, $20 million offer from sprained his ankle against the Colts. ex-wife Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a the team that includes $16 million in guar­He is expected to miss at least two prominent ANC figure and lawmaker, anteed money. games. is to head the support group. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
MLB 
Torre prepares LA for the postseason 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Joe Torre wears his Dodgers cap high on his head, revealing a vast expanse of forehead with fewer worry lines than expected for a manager who spent 12 years 
working  for  George  
Steinbrenner.  
He  perches  on  the  ledge  

above the dugout bench, arms crossed, carefully considering the pressing issues of any par­ticular day. Torre glances at his questioner, but mostly his eyes follow his players hitting and throwing during batting prac­tice. 
At 69, Torre has pretty much seen it all in baseball -as an All-Star player, a manager of five teams, a castoff of Steinbrenner, and now a suc­cessful second act in Los Angeles. 
In his two seasons here, the Dodgers have 
every now and then. But no matter what we were going through, he's seen it all already. So nothing that we do is new to him." 
The Dodgers have been resilient when they need to be, whether coming from behind to win games or going 29-21 while Hamirez was out. 
Torre knows he can't elimi­nate the daily pressure to win, so he focuses on bringing the perspective of someone who knows the game from both sides of the bench. Outwardly, he didn't flinch even as the Dodgers watched their division lead shrivel to one game over the Rockies. 
"He was still going in the weight room to work out, still laughing and talking on the bench, just taking it one day at a time," Hudson said. "That's just the way he is, man. He's just relaxed, because he knows 
this game is not 
won consecutive easy to play."
"{Torre}'s just as
NL West titles Randy Wolf for the first time will start for the
relaxed whether we since 1977-78, are winning 15-o or Dodgers in their 
when Tom playoff opener
losing 20-o. He keeps 
Lasorda was Wednesday 
behind the the same mentality." against the St. bench and Louis Cardinals pasta, red sauce -his first post-
Orlando Hudson 
and celebrities 
Dodgers second baseman season appear-
flowed through the manager's office. 
With his 14th straight playoff appearance, Torre tied a record for manager set by Atlanta's Bobby Cox. 
"The thing I'm most pleased about, probably, is coming here after leaving New York and inheriting a team with a lot of talent, then being able to add some special pieces and being able to have the success we've had in the last couple of years," Torre said. 
One thing Torre discovered about the Dodgers this season is their penchant for coming through when tested. It took them a while -a stretch of six games -to finally clinch the division. 
They did it with a 5-0 victory over wild-card Colorado on Saturday that ended a season­worst five-game losing streak. Torre endured his umpteenth champagne soaking, then was content to leave the spotlight to his players. 
"He and Mr. Cox are definite­ly two first-ballot Hall of Famers, two old-school man­agers who have been around the game a long, long time," second baseman Orlando Hudson said. "They've man­aged some great players, some Hall of Famers -they've had it all. They've been through every situation that baseball can imagine having, and they've both done so much for this game." 
Torre's low-key personality has gone over well in the Dodgers clubhouse. He's never too high, never too low and rarely meddles in his players' business, even when Manny Ramirez was suspended 50 games for violating baseball's drug policy. 
"He's just as relaxed whether we were winning 15-0 or losing 20-0. He keeps the same men­tality," Hudson said. "When things weren't going well for us, he'd throw a speech in ance in 11 sea­
sons. 
Wolf admits nerves will get to him until he steps on the mound, which serves as his comfort zone. The left-bander said Torre is mostly hands-off when it comes to one-on-one interactions with the players, but he's big on recognizing neg­ative trends. 
"If the team is going in a cer­tain direction that he doesn't like, he addresses it right away. He doesn't like to let things carry on," Wolf said. "l-Ie does­n't get caught up in every moment, but at the same time, he realized that you've got to keep the same attitude every day." 
When the Dodgers moved 27 games over .500 to match their season high in mid-September, Torre dangled another carrot in front of them: 30 games above. 
"Every team will get to that little bump in the road," Hudson said, "but when that happened, he said, 'All right guys, it's part of the game. We're going to keep going out, keep battling, having fun, hav­ing quality at-bats, and we'll find our way upstairs at the end of the year."' 
The Dodgers haven't been to the penthouse level since win­ning the World Series in 1988. Torre won four titles managing the Yankees. 
He never got there as a play­er or manager with Atlanta, St. Louis or the New York Mets ­his stops before Steinbrenner hired him with the Yankees. 
"The Yankee thing was a bonus for me," Torre said. "I was just very fortunate the other people that were on that list already had jobs to go to. I still think I was at the bottom of that list, which doesn't insult me, when you're talking about Sparky Anderson, Davey Johnson and Tony La Bussa. I feel very blessed to have got­ten that opportunity, and to have been there that long. It's crazy." 
NFL 

Colts D strings together solid games 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Colts defensive end Robert Mathis is having fun again. He's smil­ing, joking, taking pride in his big game against Seattle and the recent improvement he and his teammates have made. 
It's a stark contrast to two weeks ago when an exhausted Mathis had to answer ques­tions about Indianapolis' defensive debaele at Miami ­and that was a win for the Colts. Mathis didn't hide then, and he's hot hiding now. 
"We were embarrassed, basically," Mathis said Monday. "Everybody had to be accountable. We felt like we had lost that game even though we won." 
The Colts (4-0) took their licks, learned their lessons, went back to work and now look like a rebuilt defense. 
Over the last two weeks, the Colts have put quarterbacks Kurt Warner and Seneca Wallace under extreme duress. They limited Arizona and Seattle to a combined 73 yards rushing and only 27 points -14 coming in the last three minutes of Sunday's 34­17 victory over the Seahawks. 
The new Indy defense is using blitz packages to help Mathis and Dwight Freeney draw more one-on-one block­ing matchups, a predicament for opponents that appears as one-sided on tape as it does in the stat books. 
Freeney and Mathis already have five sacks each, nearly half of their combined total from last season when Mathis finished with 11112, Freeney had 10112 and both went to the Pro Bowl. They've forced four fumbles and when they're not catching quarterbacks they're still forcing them ihto poor decisions, hurried throws or inaccurate passes. 

Opponents just can't keep up with it. 
"They're still trying to (dou­ble team), but they can't do it like they used to," Freeney said. "They have to be more creative because we're doing different things now. They can't just double me and dou­ble Hobert, it's a little more mano-a-mano." 
And a clear mismatch in favor of the Colts. The rest of the defense is showing confidence, too. 
Defensive tackles Ed Johnson and Antonio Johnson are keeping the massive offen­sive linemen off Indy's small­ish linebackers, allowing them to fill those gaping holes Miami exposed for 239 yards rushing. An influx of young talent is helping the Colts play faster, and turnovers are going the Colts' way, too. 
It's all part of the plan new defensive coordinator Larry Coyer installed this spring. 
"I think the effort is out­standing in terms of getting to the ball," coach Jim Caldwell said. "I think we're getting good enthusiastic play from the players who are on the field." 
The question, of course, is whether this defense can hold up for 12 more games and the playoffs? 
Players believe it can. 
"I hope Miami was the anomaly, it was one of those games where we were out of character," linebacker Freddy Keiaho said. "And I'm pretty sure that games 1, 3 and 4 are what we are as a defense." 
But the Colts could get even better. 
Bob Sanders, the 2007 NFL defensive player of the year, hasn't even been on the prac­tice field yet after having off­season knee surgery. Keiaho has started the last two games at middle linebacker for Gary Brackett, the defensive cap­tain, who sprained his left knee late in the Miami game. 
Cornerback Kelvin Hayden, who signed a $43 million con­tract in February, has missed the last two weeks after re­injuring his left hamstring, and last year's other starting cornerback, Marlin Jackson, has been limited primarily to nickel and dime packages as he comes back fr.om two sur­geries on his right knee. 
"It kind of bodes well for us, but it's something that's been the case around here for a long time," Caldwell said of the injuries. "We don't fret about the fact that this guy is missing and we expect whoev­er goes in there to do the job. Then when the other person does return, we end up with some pretty good depth." 
And a lot more fun. 
"What makes it fun is suc­cess," Freeney said. "That's what's going on right now around here. You build off that momentum and every­thing snowballs." 


Fer Gay, lesbian1 Bisftxual SDuesticning Students at Notre Dame 
iuesday. Dctuber S 7:00p.m... 9:00p.m. 
316 Coleman Morse 
The Core Countfl i!W!tt!s gay. lesbmn. btsexual Squeshomn~ mt?mbers of the Notre Dame family. along with then'' fru;nds and a!lres. to an informal gathering at ~he Co·Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 

Co/lee arttll?efrcsltments YI!II/Je SerPed 
Tuesday, October 9, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Information Session on 
Study Abroad Programs in Japan: 

QB Manning has inflamed right foot 
Nagoya & Tokyo 
Wednesday, October 7, 7:00p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 
For Academic Year 2010-2011, 
Fall 201.'0 or Spring 2011 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Eli Manning is going to have to play in pain if he wants to continue as the New York Giants quarterback. 
Manning was diagnosed with inflamed tissue in his right foot late Monday follow­ing an MRI at the Hospital for Special Surgery in Manhattan. It's a problem that usually develops over time and lingers. 
Team physician Russell Warren told Manning he could play this weekend against the Oakland Raiders if he could tolerate the pain. 
"It's not as serious an injury as (the doctor) has seen before, where it's the whole foot that's hurting," Manning said in an interview on ESPN Radio in New York. "It's just kind of a portion of it." 
The Giants (4-0) have listed Manning as day to day with the plantar fasciitis, which has caused soreness and swelling in the heel and arch area on the bottom of his foot. 
Dr. Steven Weinfeld, chief of foot and ankle surgery from 


Mount Sinai's "It's not as serious an ings and talking Department of to the media.
injury as (the doctor) 
Orthopaedics in "It doesn't
has seen before
New York City, feel any worse said in a tele­where it's the whole today than it phone interview did yesterday,
foot that's hurting. 
with The which is a good
It's just kind ofa
Associated sign," Manning Press that the portion ofit" s a i d injury could be "Hopefully, it treated by tap­just gets better
Ell Manning 
ing the foot, every day."
Giants quarterback 
stretching, Manning has 

Please recycle The Observer. 
cushioning the area and using ibuprofen or any anti-inflam­matory medicine . He said cortisone injections also can help. 
The past 24 hours have been a scary time for Giants faith­ful, knowing an injury could suddenly elevate veteran David Carr to the starting job this weekend against Oakland, and a serious injury could crush hopes of another cham­pionship run. 
Manning, who has thrown for 1,039 yards, eight touch­downs and two interceptions this season, was hurt early in the fourth quarter in a non­contact injury in New York's 27-16 win over the Chiefs in Kansas City. 
The MVP of the Super Bowl in February 2008 made a fake on play-action and went back to throw. As he planted his right foot, he suddenly hopped as if he had stepped in a divot or something popped. He threw an incomplete pass to Steve Smith seconds later. 
The play reminded many of the season-ending Achilles' tendon injury former Jets quarterback Vinny Testaverde suffered at the start of the 1999 season. 
"Of the things it could have been, it's one of the better ones," Weinfeld said of the diagnosis. 
While the words were com­forting, so was the sight of Manning standing in front of his locker earlier in the after­noon with neither a boot, a crutch or much evidence of heavy tape on his right foot. 

The only obvious sign of an injury was a slight limp when he walked away. 
"Yeah, that's all positive stuff," Manning said. "I think it's just time and ice and some treatment here and at home, kind of nonstop everything for the next couple of days. My goal is by Wednesday to be practicing and get out there and not being restricted." 
Manning admittedly was concerned about his Achilles' tendon briefly after his incom­plete pass to Smith. He threw a touchdown pass to rookie Hakeem Nicks on the next play and then spent the rest of the game on the bench. 
"I knew what it was," Manning said. "I knew it was the bottom of my foot, my heel area. I could walk around a little bit. It was good that we got a touchdown on that play, kind of gave ourselves a pretty good lead at the time." 
Manning, who has started 82 consecutive games, still had some swelling and sore­ness Monday morning. He got ice and stimulation treatment and went through his strength program before attending meet­
played through 

pain. He injured the A-C joint in his right shoulder in a game against Dallas early in 2007 and came back the following weekend to play against Green Bay. 
"The last time, with the shoulder, (the doctor) said I'd be out a month and I played the next week," Manning said, noting Warren told him this time it's just a matter of how fast can he heal. 
Coughlin said Manning is one of those players who wants to be out there with his teammates. 
"I am not worried about him," guard Rich Seubert said. "A couple of years ago, he had the shoulder or what­ever it was and he was fine and didn't miss anything. Then I let (Browns nose tack­le) Shaun Rogers fall on him last year. He's a tough kid. I know on Sunday he will be out there playing with us." 
Carr, the No. 1 pick overall by Houston in the 2002 draft and a veteran of 79 NFL starts, is ready just in case. 
"I have done this before, it's not my first rodeo," Carr said. "I have a great team around me, that's the biggest thing. I think we have the best offen­sive line in football and throw­ing to some young receivers that are really excited to play, exciting to watch, exciting to throw to. I got a chance to throw to them a little bit in preseason and every day in practice, so it should be excit­ing. We have a good football team. I just have to go in and do my job." 

Pangborn 
continued from page 19 
"It felt amazing to win today. Our first two games we tried our hardest, but lost. Today we got a lot of people involved and came out a lot more confident, which is exactly what we needed to do," Tate said. 
Now that they know what they are capable of, the women of Pangborn will undoubtedly find future success. 
Thursday, Pangborn will take on Ryan at 8 p.m. while Lyons pre­pares for a showdown with Cavanaugh at 9 p.m. 
Welsh Family 7, Pasquerilla East 6 
Welsh Family (1-2) took down Pasquerilla East (2-1) by a score of 7-6 in a defensive battle Sunday. 
A joint effort by Whirlwind jun­ior Jenna Spizzirri and freshman Laura DiLuia forced an intercep­tion on Welsh Family's own two­yard line in the final minute of the game to prevent the Pyros from a orchestrating a come-from-behind victory. 
Both teams scored on their first drives of the game. The Whirlwind's only touchdown came after a series of successful passes by senior quarterback Demi Hueth. Sophomore Charlotte Seasly caught the pass for what proved to be the game-winning extra point. 
Pasquerilla East quarterback Tara Pillai followed the Whirlwind touchdown with a touchdown pass to sophomore Kristin Mannion. The Whirlwind's newest defensive star, DiLuia batted down the Pryos' attempt at an extra point to pre­serve the lead. 
Despite some solid offensive efforts during the remainder of the game, both teams would fail to make it to the end zone. Pillai had several short completions for the Pyros, favorJng freshmen receivers Erica Chenard and Jackie Urban. However, PE was unable to capi­talize on these opportunities. Welsh Fam also appeared to score on the final drive of the first half on a Hueth pass to Vicky Moreno, but a questionable spot ruled the com­pletion just short of the end zone, leading to an eventual turnover on downs. 
"We're really disappointed," Pillai said. "We're going to bounce back for Tuesday." 
The second half of the game was a head-to-head defensive battle, as each team forced multiple punts. Senior captain Tara Schimpf sacked the Pryos' quarterback during their final drive of the game to set the tone lor the Whirlwind's final defensive stand. 
"I think we looked great as a team. We had some key plays and big stops," Schimpf said. 
Schimpf highlighted the team's excitement about their frrst win of the season, particularly against a tough undefeated Pyros squad. 
"We linally clicked today. We got our first win and we're excited that everything is working well," Schimpf said. 
Pasquerilla West 30, Cavanaugh 6 
Pasquerilla West foreed the use of the mercy rule Sunday with a commanding 30-6 victory over Cavanaugh. 

The Purple Weasels showed both outstanding offense and dominat­ing defense, which helped them in their crushing defeat of the Chaos. 
"Cavanaugh had an incredible team," Pasquerilla West captain Cynthia Curley said. "I cannot believe we just mercy ruled them." 
Purple Weasels quarterback jun­ior Simone Bigi made contact with almost every receiver she threw to, although she did throw one inter­ception. Bigi threw three touch­down pa.•;;ses and ran for one. Her top receivers were captain Cynthia Curley who scored twice, junior Mary Forr, and freshman Alice Yerokun. 
"Our running and passing game finally elieked," Curley said. 
Pasquerilla West also had a defense that smothered the Chaos attack. The Purple Weasels had Cavanaugh's number all afternoon. The defense picked off three of the Chaos' passes, two of which result­ed in touchdowns. 
Cavanaugh had a tough first half, but started to pull it together in the second half. Quarterback sophomore Megan Robertson threw a touchdown during the Chaos' first possession of the sec­ond half. Robertson also had a great running game gaining over twenty yards on one play. 
'This wa.<> the most disappoint­ing interhall game that I have ever played in," Cavanaugh senior cap­tain Sarah Cline said. 
The Chaos' defense did not seem to mesh at all during this game, and it looked like they have a lot of work to do. Their offense ort the other hand finally was able to get it together to make the second half a little more exciting. 
"We did do better the second half," Cline said. "[But] we definite­ly have some work to do." 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu, Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Chris Allen at callenlO@nd.edu, Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu and Kelly Zenere at kzenerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Whirlvvinds face Babes in 111atchup of two-loss teams 
By KARA KING, BARRICK 
BOLLMAN and KAITLYN 
MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
Welsh Family vs. Breen-Phillips 
Coming off their first win of the season, Welsh Family (1-2) looks to build momentum as they face a struggling Breen-Phillips (0-2) team tonight. 
Thanks to an impressive late defensive stand, the Whirlwinds defeated the surging Pyros 7-6 last Sunday, clinching the win despite several questionable officiating calls. Senior captain Stephanie Vossler believes her team has the talent to return to the interhall dominance the hall has experi­enced in years past. 
"You can expect us to carry this momentum all the way through to the stadium," she said. "We've been there before and we plan on returning." 
With a strong defensive unit and an offense that is coming together under first-year starting quarter­back, senior Demi 1-Iueth, the Whirlwinds are well on their way. 
"The offense is definitely work­ing as a unit now," Hueth said. "Our defense has been suffocating and our offense is ready to domi­nate. We're going to prove that last week is what teams should expect when they face us." 
BP, meanwhile, is still looking to click offensively. Freshman quar­terback Stefani Santeramo will be looking for her favorite target, sophomore receiver Lauren Kalinoski. But weak offensive-line play thus far could prove detri­mental against the Whirlwinds, with returning defensive linemen junior Cari Pick and senior captain Tara Schimpf, who accounted for several crucial sacks in the Whirlwinds victory over PE. 
Facing the growing threat of Hueth will present a challenge to the BP defense as well. After allowing 33 points to a then-win­less Lewis squad and 22 points to PE in week one, the Babes will have their hands full when trying to contain the mobile quarterback and her versatile receivers. 
Ifit hopes to score its first win of the season, BP must find a way to limit the Whirlwinds' strong offense and penetrate a defense that has been stifling thus far. 
BP and Welsh Family square off at 7 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Howard vs. Farley 
Two unbeatens will clash when Howard (2-0) and Farley (2-0-1) meet tonight at 8 p.m. at Riehle Field. There may not be much of a rivalry between the two teams, but both realize that this game is the next step on the way to the Stadium. 
The Ducks are coming off of a bye, but recently beat defending champions McGlinn handily 33-0. 
"We're going to continue to come out and play with a fire that will carry us to the play-offs and beyond," Howard junior captain Kayla Bishop said. 
The Ducks are expeeting junior receiver Kaitlin Robinson and sophomore safety Caroline Walsh to lead the charge past the Finest. 
As the schedule would have it, Farley also played McGlinn in their last game, coming back from a first half deficit to tie the Shamrocks. However, despite the score disparities against a com­mon opponent, Farley is not con­cerned. 
"We are just going to come out and continue playing our game," Farley junior Captain Emma Klosterman said. "We are going to have a lot offun." 
Farley figures to rely on two­way sophomore Katie Smith to lead the charge. Also, oll'ensive standout sophomore Laura Yovienne made plays all over the field in previous games and hopes to continue to do so again. A defense led by senior Chrissy Andrews and Klosterman hopes to put the clamps on the potent Duck offense. 
Regardless of the outcome, the winner of this game will have a great chance at making the play­offs and a deep run towards the stadium. 
Pasquerilla East vs. McGlinn 
Pasquerilla East (2-1) hopes to avenge its only loss tonight against deli:mding champion McGlinn. 
The Pyros will rely on experi­enced senior quarterback Tara Pillai to get the job done. They will continue to experiment with an offensive squad packed with tal­ented freshmen and sophomores. 
"We have a whole bunch of young receivers and running backs who we want to get involved," Pillai said. 

Pa.<>querilla East failed to eonvert on many offensive opportunities in their first loss. Pillai hopes to improve in this week's face-off. 
"We need to finish in the red zone," she said. 
Pillai also emphasized the importance of a strong defensive effort and highlighted the intimi­dating presence of sophomore Maya Thode. 
"The whole secondary needs to have a big game and hopefully foree a few turnovers," she said. 
The Pyros understand the mag­nitude of this game and how important a win is for a successful season. 
"The game is huge for us," Pillai said. "We need to see if we can bounce back after a tough loss. There's a big differenee between 3-1 and 2-2, especially when the season L<> so short." 
This is also a must win game for McGlinn (0-1-1), as the defending champions hope to turn their sea­son around. Senior captain Emily Dore continues to express confi­dence in her squad. 
"Our team has really been com­ing together in practices, improv­ing on our offensive and defensive strategies," she said. "We are steadily improving and will make some big strides in the upeoming games." 
Sophomore quarterback Lauren Miller will look to distribute the ball to wide receivers junior Kathleen Stanley and sophomore Kate Tucker. This offensive trio hopes to score immediately in order to set the pace for the game. 
The Shamrock defense, lead by sophomore linebacker Jennifer Smith, will have its hands full with the Pyros' dominant offensive squad. 
This season defining game between the Shamrocks and Pyros kicks off Tuesday at 9 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Contact Kara King at kking5@nd.edu, Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu and Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu 

Washington, D.C. 
ln,formation Meeting 
Tuesday, October 6 7:00P.M. 1 I 7 Ha~'es-Heal~' 



Tuesday, October 6, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
come through with a touchdown. Babes' offense throughout the be doing a lot better." trailed nearly the whole game. The second half also gave Badin game. Sophomore Margot DeBot The Babes hopes that with the McGlinn began the game with a
Schanzer 
room to show its strengths after was crucial in saving the shutout, necessary changes to their strate­dazzling passing game that was adjusting to Walsh's style. A strong with an interception in the Chicks' gy, they will put up a solid per­unstoppable at times. Sophomore
continued from page 24 
set of completed passes between end zone and a crucial stop of a formance on Tuesday against quarterback Lauren Miller threw began, and saw its effects when freshman receiver Ashley Okonta threatening run by the Babes' Welsh Family. two long touchdown passes and their defense forced a punt off and sophomore quarterback Ryan quarterback in the last play of the In similar fashion, after having consistenly hit junior wide receiver Badin's first possession after failing Cooney led to a touchdown by game. made the necessary changes to Kathleen Stanley to move the ball to convert a first down. Okonta. "It was nice to win, we played their strategy, the Chicks hope to down the field. McGlinn failed to 
Senior Meghan Hadley quickly "It feels good to have a comfort­really well," Guarnieri said. "Our carry their momentum into their score in the second half, struggling finished off the drive with a touch­able victory and not have to come defense is really a key to our play game next week against Howard. to build on their 13-0 halftime down run, giving Walsh an early back from behind," coach and our offense has stepped up "We want to keep winning," lead. lead. Jeremiah Herman said. "Ifwe exe­recently." Guarnieri said. "It feels a lot better "You have to give a lot of credit 
Soon after their first touchdown, cute like this every game, that's Despite some successful drives than losing." to Farley for making the adjust­the Walsh defense proved itself what will get us to the Stadium." and big plays, the Breen-Phillips ments," Miller said. "I don't think with a safety, regaining possession Badin will take on Pasquerilla offense was unable to capitalize McGlinn 13, Farley 13 we made the necessary adjust­once again. From there, the West Thursday while Walsh has a and put points on the board. With less than a minute left in ments to counter them." offense took over, with a slew of bye week. Freshman quarterback Stefani the game and clinging to a 13-6 With 10 minutes left in the sec­passes that eventually resulted in Santeramo connected with sopho­lead, the McGlinn defense needed ond half, Farley began its come­another touchdown caught by Lewis 33, Breen-Phillips 0 more Lauren Kalinoski for multi­one defensive stop to finish off the back with a bit of luck. With the Schanzer. After a rough 0-2 start, Lewis ple clutch gains, including a 40-game and get their first win in ball at midfield, Bastedo lofted a 
Walsh's defense continued its earned its first win of the season yard pass at the start of the second defense oflast season's title. pass into the end zone where it strong showing with an intercep­Sunday with a shutout victory over half which brought them within a Farley sophomore wide receiver was swatted down by several tion, and the offense converted the Breen-Philips. few yards of the end zone. Laura Yoviene had other ideas. McGlinn defenders. However, trail­turnover into yet another touch­Senior quarterback Catherine "Our team did great. The offense Yoviene slipped past the McGlinn ing sophomore receiver Katie down by Schanzer with just over a Guarnieri scored five total touch­ran great routes," Santeramo said. defense to haul in a 25-yard touch­Smith grabbed the ball before it hit minute left in the first half. downs, throwing three and run­"Next game we'll do a lot better." down from sophomore quarter­the ground and walked into the 
With a comfortable lead, the sec­ning for two more. Freshman The Babes expressed satisfaction back Megan Bastedo in the game's end zone to put Farley on the ond half gave them room to play receiver Connaught Blood caught over the team's improvement over fmal minute to tied up the game board and make the score 13-6. fresh legs and players who don't two of Guarnieri's touchdown last week and their ability to adjust for good. After Yoviene's last minute mira­normally see playing time. passes for the Chicks including the in order to compensate for some "We faked it short, and [the cor­cle tied the score, McGlinn was left 
"It was nice that we were able to first of the game on a 30-yard costly injuries. nerback] bit on it," Yoviene said. wondering what could have been. give everyone some real-game reception over two Breen-Phillips "We're still solidifying our "The other girls cleared out and "We had a thirteen point lead. experience because everyone had defenders. defense, trying to figure out who left me alone. Megan threw a great We were hoping we were going to played so well," Hadley said. The Lewis defense used an inter­fits where," senior captain ball and hit me in stride." win," Miller said. "We're disap­
Even with the less experienced ception, a sack and numerous Stephanie Wuerdeman said. "As The frenetic finish capped a pointed but we did take a step for­players, Walsh was still able to turnovers on downs to stifle the soon as we have that down, we'll great comeback from Farley, who ward and we learned from this game and we'll win next week." 
Farley on the other hand was ecstatic after evading what seemed to be sure defeat. 
"We would have liked a win," Yoviene said. "But obviously we're really happy with the comeback." 
Both teams will gear up for Tuesday night matchups, as McGlinn takes on Pasquerilla East and Farley battles the Howard. 
Pangborn 28, Lyons 0 
After two tough losses, Pangborn (1-2) proved itself as a force to be reckoned with by dominating Lyons (0-2) 28-0 Sunday. 
The first half was plagued with penalty after penalty, frustrating both teams as a new rule prohibits any sign of raised elbows while blocking. After going back and forth with forced punts when nei­ther team could convert to a first down, the game took a change of pace when Lyons senior quarter­back Claire Connell came out for the rest of the game with an injury. 
Freshman Erica Miller took over as quarterback. 
"They weren't the best circum­stances, but we still kept our spirits up," Miller said. 
After Connell's injury, the Lions struggled to advance the ball, and Pangborn's enthusiasm finally paid off with an interception by senior co-captain Meghan Bescher on a Lyons fourth down. 
After an outside run by Pangborn senior quarterback Gabby Tate, a string of successful passes, and one final run by Tate into the end zone, Pangborn got its first touchdown. 
This only started what would become a powerful display of force by both Pangborn's offense and defense. The first half ended with a sack by Pangborn, shutting down the Lyons offense. 
After another succession of pass­es, Tate completed a pass to fresh­man Kristin Ruekert for the touch­down, which was topped off with the extra point, leaving the Phoxes leading 14-0. 
The defensive line came through once again, sacking the Lyons quarterback twice and forcing the punt yet another punt. 
Pangborn continued its touch­down streak, with another combi­nation of runs by Tate and a catch by Bescher. 
The Phoxes could not be stopped, quickly regaining posses­sion from Lyons with an intercep­tion by Bescher. The turnover led to a touchdown by Tate and a final extra point by senior Annie Kotz. 
see PANGBORN/page 18 


,~--­
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
1 
I 
I i 
I 
future. ed in an untimely interception. lineman stripped the hand-off from "We know what we need to work St. Edward's 27, FISher 6 "We felt that we were a lot the running back and took off run­
Keenan 
continued from page 21 
back PJ McHugh, has now given up three points or less in two of their games this season. 
The Mob offense was on the field for most of the second half, but was unable to come away with any points. The only O'Neill score came on a safety forced by the defense. 
"The defense was great,'' Keenan sophomore quarterback Terry Mahoney said. "Usually it's the offense that milks the clock. I guess that's the epitome of bend-but­don't-break defense. It was a great goal-line stand, but unfortunately they got the safety. We really like the play of the defense." 
The Mob defense kept the team in the game, allowing only the sec­ond quarter field goal by Martinez. It was a vast improvement over the squad's opening game. 
"I thought we did really well on defense," senior captain Charles Johnson said. "We improved from last time. We had a safety, which was really good for us. The defense was great except for the field goal." 
Keenan moves to 1-2 on the sea­son and is idle next week. They will face Stanford the following week to conclude the regular season. 
"We still have a shot at the play­offs," Mahoney said. "We would just like to finish on the offensive side of the ball. We got close a cou­ple times. We're going to tighten the screws offensively." 
Meanwhile, O'Neill will prepare to face Stanford next Sunday. 
"We're going to have to keep practicing hard," Johnson said. "Stanford's a tough team. We need to contain the big plays and make a couple plays ourselves." 
Morrissey 15, Duncan 0 
When Duncan and Morrissey squared off Sunday, both teams were hungry for a win, albeit for different reasons. Duncan was looking for their first win of the sea­son, while Morrissey was looking to keep an undefeated season alive. The Manor came out on top with the shutout victory over the Highlanders. 
"This game was pretty rough,'' Duncan sophomore lineman Paul Scheel said. "We went against a very solid Morrissey team." 
The Manor scored on the first offensive possession of the game, marching the ball down the field on a 10-play, 65-yard drive that con­cluded with a touchdown pass in the back of the end zone. 
The Highlanders were able to move the ball well on several pos­sessions, but could not make a great offensive play when it mat­tered most, and they turned the ball over on downs twice and had time run out on them before the half. 
"I think we made another step towards effective offensive produc­tion,'' Scheel said. "We were able to move the ball better than we have previously. We now just need to put it all together." 
Credit the Morrissey defense, though, as they stepped up in cru­cial moments. They were able to pressure the Highlander quarter­back all day. Eventually, the pres­sure became too much as they forced an interception caused by a hit on the quarterback as he threw. On the final possession of the game, the Manorites were able to put the final nail in the coffin by intercept­ing a long pass as time was winding down. 
"Our defense really causes prob­lems,'' senior linebacker Phil Yuhas said. "It all starts up front. [Defensive linemen] Tom Nield, Spencer White, Brandon Lewis, and Sean Baur do an excellent job of tying up the offensive line and creating havoc in the backfield." 
Despite the slow start for the Highlanders, they maintain confi­dent in their ability to win in the on,'' Scheel said. "The entire team believes we can come out and win our next game." 
Morrissey will look to continue the winning ways against perennial powerhouse Siegfried next week­end. 
"This win just gives us more momentum heading into next week's matchup," Yuhas said. "Everyone played and contributed today, so as a team our experience level is going up, which is always a good thing." 
Siegfried 34, Alumni 0 
Siegfried's electric offense was too much for Alumni's defense to handle Sunday. 
The defending champion Ramblers used three running touchdowns, including two scoring runs over 30-yards by junior quar­terback Matt Meinert, to rout Alumni 34-0. 
"I scored both of my touchdowns on option plays," Meinert said. "It's a play that we practice a lot. The line did its job and I did mine." 
Alumni struggled early to amass any otl'ense. They were hampered by tenacious defense and mental errors, including multiple false start infractions throughout the game. The Dawgs failed to get a first down in the first quarter, setting the tone for the rest of the game. 
Siegfried's defense played just as well as its offense, swarming to every tackle and finishing every play. Junior defensive lineman Dan Scime had two sacks, and senior captain Dex Cure took a recovered fumble to the house in the second quarter. This touchdown was one of three scored in the second period for the Ramblers. 
The halftime adjustments made by the Dawgs brought a spark to both the offense and defense. They methodically moved the ball down the field, but false start penalties killed their momentum once again. Defensively, they recovered a fum­ble and only allowed one touch­down in the second half. 
However, Alumni encountered more of the same grinding offense from Siegfried. While Meinert con­nected for a 15-yard touchdown pass, their ability to run the ball at will managed the clock efficiently and kept the Rambler offense on the field for most ofthe half. 
"The run game is our bread and butter," Meinert said. 
After this game Siegfried moved to 1-0-1, and Alumni fell to 0-2-1. Next weekend, the Ramblers face a tough Morrissey team, while Knott is next up for the Dawgs. 

Throughout the contest, St. stronger today than before,'' St. ning. The lineman fumbled the ball Edward's flexed their offensive Edward's senior lineman Rob running to the end zone. Junior muscle and controlled the battle Dillard said. lineman Dominic Fanelli picked it from start to finish on it..c; way to a The Gentlemen offense dictated up and scored for the Gentleman. 27-6win. the game with their bruising run­Despite the dreary outcome for 
On the first play of the game, a ning game and precision pac;sing Fisher, they continue to look Gentlemen running back broke free game. Senior wide receiver Joe towards the future. for a big gain putting the ball inside DeMott caught four pac;ses and one "We are going to get the wind in the 1 0-yard line. This play set the touchdown during the first half of our sails and get those gears turn­tone for the game as the Gentlemen the game alone. ing,'' senior captain Jamie Ellis never looked back for the rest of Fisher struggled to gain ground said. the game. during the first half; they could not 
St. Edward's dominated the establish a solid run or pass game. Contact Colin King at game, particularly at the line of However at the start of the sec­cking6@nd.edu, Allan Joseph at scrimmage. The offensive line gave ond half, Fisher came out strong. ajoseph2@nd.edu, Andrew the quarterback enough time to The Green Wave pulled out some Owens at aowens2@nd.edu, make stellar passes throughout the trickery with a hallback pass to a Matthew Robison at game. Even the defensive line wide-open receiver down field. mrobison@nd.edu, Lex Dennis pressed the Fisher quartnrback into St. Edward's turned the tide of at bdennisl@nd.edu and Tim making quick decisions that result-the game again when a defensive Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 

P&ra,~, P~y 
PlA;tyc;vH' 

Appl!Y ID,Sntdy Al»r~ i¥VS ~ M~~ 2010 ~ 2011 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
Fall semetH:4!r pre·mect tM"OQram Spnog semester 9enera1 proqram 
INTE~NSHIPS 

MONTERREY, MEXICO 
eusiness and Eng!neef'lng courses 6¢9innh''lQ throu<gh Adv,a!'l(:ed Sptllnish r:ourse-s 
MEXICO CITY 
S<xW»l $CiC!'l(:i& 4nu HtSitory wf'th a ~tin Amet+<>3t1 Ft;tCU$ 
INFORMATION SESStON 
Tuesday, October 6, 5:30PM .204 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15, 2009 
APPt..Y at: ht:t.,://www.nd.MU/""Otti/ANtfy/Appty.htmt 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Crabbe said. "She finished her two chances well. She has been

Calvin 
working hard after coming in a continued from page 24 bit behind in pre-season." After a tough loss in their that the Belles will have to play first conference matchup with 
at a high level to pull off the upset. 
In the game against Trine, Saint Mary's was able to jump out to an early lead and hung on for the win as senior Katy Durkin netted two Adrian, tl"\e Belles were
"She finished her two 
looking to chances well. She has regain momen­tum heading
been working hard 
into the rest of
after coming in a bit 
conference 
behind in pre-season.'' play and will need to use it well against
Ryan Crabbe 
Calvin. 
Belles coach 
Crabbe said while earning 

goals, her third and fourth of the victory over Trine was the season. good, the Belles cannot afford "Katy had a good game," to dwell on their success as 
Tuesday, October 6, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS 
Calvin presents an entirely new opponents to only two goals in set of challenge. It will be the team's four wins this sea-
tough  going  son.  
from  playing  "We can't give  
the worst team in the confer­ence to the best.  "Certainly scoring first would be a tremendous way to  up early goals," Crabbe said. "The longer we keep the game  
Saint Mary's, who has  start the game.,  close the better our chances. We  
already doubled its win total  Ryan Crabbe  have had prob­lems falling  
from last sea­ Belles coach  behind and hav­ 

son, will be looking to avoid being shut out for the eighth time already this season. 
While their offense has struggled at times, the combi­nation of senior Patty Duffy and freshman Adele Bruggeman has held their 
ing to chase the 
game against quality opponents. Certainly scoring first would be a tremendous way to start the game." 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @nd.edu 

e 
y r f t 
S4:~~~ ft(j?~ ... ()(l(i P41WOI>i~ 'aVOfkt!t¥0 tOQ0t.hlJr 10 httip fO$pftf!t 



page 21 

Ver01in 
continued from page 24 
"This is the largest amount of wins we've had since I've been here," Ruof said. 
Carroll's win sets up a battle of two undefeated squads Sunday against Sorin. 
Stanford 12, Dillon 7 
Stanford defeated Dillon in a thrilling contest that was not decid­ed until the end of a wild fourth quarter. 
The game opened with a defen­sive struggle, with neither team able to put points on the board in the first quarter. At the beginning of the second quarter, however, Stanford began connecting through the air and was able to reach the end zone on a touchdown pass from junior quarterback Tony Rizzo to junior receiver Brian Cash. The Griffms missed the ensuing extra-point attempt. Dillon could muster no offense in the first half and the teams went to halftime with Stanford leading 6-0. 
The third quarter was also a defensive struggle, as well as the beginning of the fourth quarter. With less than three minutes left in the fourth quarter, however, Stanford had the ball and was looking to run out the clock and escape with a victory. 
Dillon junior captain Jordan Smith then stripped the ball from Rizzo and ran the ball back for a touchdown. The Big Red were able to convert the extra point and take a one-point lead with just two min­utes to go in the game. 
The Griffins then used quick, methodical passes to move the ball to the Dillon 42-yard-line in merely 50 seconds. On the next play, Rizzo again connected with Cash for a 42-yard touchdown pass to give Stanford a 12-7lead. Dillon tried to quickly score in the waning sec­onds but the comeback attempt fell short, allowing the Griffins to leave with victory. 
"Both teams played hard, I thought we were going to steal one," Smith said. "I wasn't thinking they were going to drive down the field." 
He also credited Stanford's defense for stopping the Big Red rushing attack just as they intend­ed to do. 
"Dillon played a great game," Stanford senior captain Chris Gill said. "Both defenses played well, and we just got lucky with Cash being open twice." 
He was also proud of Rizzo's resiliency, as well as the execution of the Griffin offense on the game­deciding drive. As usual, the Stanford-Dillon matchup had play­off implications. 
"It's good to know that we're sit­ting on top of the division right now," Gill said. Meanwhile, Dillon looks to win out and make the playoffs again, where they will most likely face Stanford again. 
"I would love to face Stanford again," Smith said. "I hope they win enough games so that we can play them." 
For now, both teams will have to continue their defensive prowess for the rest of the regular season. 
Dillon faces Keough next week as Stanford meets O'Neill. 
Keenan 3, O'Neill 2 
It may have been ugly, but for Keenan it marks the first victory of the sea'ion, keeping them in playoff contention. 
The lone score of the game came on a second quarter field goal of 41 yards by junior kicker Pablo Martinez. It was his second made field goal thi'i season. 
The Knight's defense, led by sen­ior defensive end Tony Clausing who stopped many O'Neill running plays and sophomore defensive 
see KEENAN/page 20 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
Lysander 
continued from page 24 
California native's experience has helped a young back line mature this season. 
"Having [Lysander] have the experience she gained last year has been really important not only for the team, but for her as well, from a confidence stand­point," coach Randy Waldrum said. "It certainly gives the play­ers who play in front of her a lot of confidence, knowing that a player like her is behind them." 
Last season, as the Irish amassed a 26-1 record, Lysander was able to rely on then-seniors Carrie Dew and Elise Weber to limit the opportunities she faced. This season 10 shots have found their way past Lysander in the 10 games she has started. 
"One thing you get tested on this year that you didn't last year is we didn't give teams a lot of opportunities to even get good looks at scoring goals on us," Waldrum said. "This year we have given up a few more oppor­tunities, so Kelsey has had to adjust to that increased load, and she has done a really good job with it to help stabilize our back line. " 
Junior Julie Scheidler leads the back line this year, joined mainly by senior defender Haley Ford, who was injured for parts of last year and occasionally moves to a midfielder role this year, and sophomore Jessica Schuveiller. With so little experience, Waldrum said some time was needed for the unit to jell with Lysander. 
"It does [take a while to jell], and I think it is still somewhat of a process," he said. ''I'm not sure we are completely where we were last year, and that is due to the overall team being young compared to last year." 
That process was unfortunate­ly exploited at the beginning of the year, particularly in the team's 6-0 defeat at the hands of No. 1 North Carolina and two losses at the Santa Clara/adidas Classic. But as the season has progressed, the defense has markedly improved, allowing just two goals in its last six matches, including none in three overtime periods. 

"[Jelling] is something we are still working on, and each we have seen it get better and better, so we know we are headed in the right direction," Waldrum said. "Now that we are starting to get some experience, we are starting to stabilize and help [Lysander J out. She has been good through­out the season." 
As the team stabilizes, Lysander's GM is sure to contin­ue to drop, especially if injured senior captains defender Courtney Rosen and forward Michele Weissenhofer are able to return to the field at all this sea­son. All of the Irish know that the most critical time of the season, the postseason, has yet to come, but is fast approaching. 
Last season Lysander was at her best in the postseason, lead­ing Notre Dame to the national championship game. In fact, the semifinal contest against No. 5 Stanford may have been her best performance to date. Lysander made seven saves, recording a shutout in the game. 
"She was fantastic," Waldrum said. "She picked a great time of year to be really good in that Final Four week." 
If the Irish back line continues to jell with Lysander in goal, look for the Irish net to be just as secure as it was last year at crunch time. 
Contact Douglas Fanner at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles take on Calvin as part of 'Dig for Cure' promotion 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sports Writer  will put on an event similar to this for one of their matches in the month of October.  sion stand during the game. To raise the most money, the Belles will have  control but we were not able to ever capture a comfortable lead."  two 3-0 victories. The Knights feature one of the most powerful offenses in  
The Belles square off in an important MIM matchup with Calvin tonight, but this game will carry much more impor­tance than just any conference  The format is simple. Each player will go out and ask for monetary pledges per dig in the match. The average number of digs per game for the Belles will be multiplied by that  to play stellar defense, some­thing that has been somewhat suspect in their last two games  "We expect them to come out and play us strong as they have played everyone else  The Belles now turn to their next opponent, the last MIAA oppo­nent on their schedule that  the conference, and have more than twice as many many kills per game as their opponents. "We expect them to come out and play us strong as they have played everyone else this year  
showdown. That is because the teams will be playing to raise  pledge, and the total amount will be given to the Komen  this past week­end where they  this year so far. "  they have yet to face. No.11  so far," Kuschel said. "They have a really good offense so  
awareness for breast cancer. The Belles will sponsor the  Foundation. If the Belles maintain their  dropped contests  two by  Toni Kuschel  Calvin is having its usual success­ our defense will really have to be on [tonight]."  
Dig for the Cure contest against  season average of 17.5 digs per  scores of 3-0.  Belles coach  ful  season and is  The match will begin at 7  
Calvin, an event in partnership  game tonight,  a  pledge of five  "We were not  currently 11-4 on  p.m. in the Angela Athletic  
with  the  Susan  G. Komen  dollars will  amount to  $85  able to play our  the year.  Facility.  
Foundation to raise money for  toward cancer research. They  game on Saturday,"  coach Toni  History is also not on  the  
cancer research. All of the  will also be selling pink deserts  Kuschel said.  "There  were  Belles' side  as  the Knights  Contact Chris Michalski at  
teams in the MIM conference  and pink t-shirts at the conces­ times that we were able to gain  swept the series last year with  jmichal2@nd.edu  

··:··)·: t~~~ft: ~;~~ (;¥.'~>.:>~ f:i. N ~~:~::t~···: Y. ~,.;: f':<-::"f{:.=~(:-· ~\'=·x~:·.~. I) loll !;lJ ll ~; Y ft I 
NO'IRl: EMME 
~*';;•;;&'!!' f!L•;;~<eym,!!RI rA•WA\. r%Wl. !ttll"""";Ay.rK4gw""·· %?1 );1'~\*il;Wl· +>mxw/'" ~~ #"'·) 



Tuesday, October 6, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 It may be worse than a bite

Moody's rates them 
34 Winter hrs. in New Orleans 6 Oceanic in 37 How 18-, 24-, scope 

47-and 56­1 0 Early software Across may be version defined 14 Musical work 41 Director's "Stop!" that's often not 
42 Tops of many in English 

Halloween 15 Gross, in getups kid speak 
43"You_ be 16 Cart-pulling there" beasts 
44 Bell-ringing 17 Pretentious and cosmetics showy company 18 See 37-Across 
46 Theater area 20 Uncooked 
47 See 37~Across 21 Old woman's 
52 A pet collar home, in a repels them

nursery rhyme 54 Flip, as a coin
23" Was a Lady" (Ethel 55 Tuna at a sushi Merman tune) 
bar 24 See 37-Across 
56 See 37-Across 28 "_to please!" 
59 Rambo type 29 "Careful, now!" 
61 Start the pot 30 Woody Allen's 
62 Equips for war

trademark emotion 63 In-your-face 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~R ,;,;r.:,::.+.,:.+.:,:.+.::,. --~+:=:-t-=-RB -.~=+-=++.:+-:=-l 
-..-7-t"'=t-.:t-.:t7 .......,~+'-'+-'-'-~-"-~ 
~"-+-'+'+''-i 
64 "Guarding _" (1994 Maclaine movie) 
65 First, second, third or home 66 Noodges 
Down Sows' mates 2 TV host with a book club 3 Food package datum 4 "M*A*S*H" 
staffers: Abbr. 5 Greets informally 6 Baseball cap 
part 7 Needed a massage, maybe 8 Precursor of reggae 9 49-Down war god 1 0 Plant expert's field 11 Give off, as charm 12 Garr or Polo 13 Rice who wrote of vampires 
19 Accompaniers of carrots in a Birds Eye package 
22 Haw's partner 25 El_, Tex. 26 Belgrade natives 27 Forming clumps, 
like drying mud 30 Epitome of 
simplicity 31 Big Apple sch. 32 Spring sound 33 Land SW of Uru. 34 Utah, Omaha 
and others, on D-Day 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Steven Ginzburg  
35 Pink elephant sighter 36 Fight ender, for short 38 Tae do 39 Hot car's destination 40 Giant in pasta sauce  45 Workbench gripper 46 Some football linemen: Abbr. 47 Sunni and Shia, for two 48 "1 0 or less" (checkout sign) 49 Like Odin or 9­Down  51 Aids tor the stumped 52 Rush week venue, for short 53 Sprinter's assignment 57 Running account at a bar 58 Geologic time  
44 Responds to a morning alarm  50 Business presentation aid  60 Day before a big event  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Kate Wmslet, 34; Guy Pearce, 42; Mario Lemieux, 44; Steve Miller, 66 
Happy Birthday: Consistency, detail, fair play and patience will be required if you want to take advantage of the creative opportunities corning your way this year. Connecting with old friends, lovers or neighbors will lead to new possibilities. This is a year of reconnecting and reconciliation. Your numbers are 3, 9, 14, 27, 30, 39,48 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Take wha riticized the moment you try to cut corners or pass your responsibilities on to someone else. Follow through with whatever you start. *** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): With a couple of productive and industrious changes, you will be able to call the shots. Not everyone will be in agreement with you but you should be able to move forward with only mild interference. *** 
GEMlNl (May 21-June 20): You'll have to do double duty. No matter how you look at a situation, you can expect to be surprised by the outcome. Keep your guard up and your thoughts to yourself for now. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll have more at home and in your personal life. Getting involved in domestic projects will help ease stress as you figure out ways to. accommodate everyone you love.**** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel like getting away but working is what's required. our mind off personal matters. Greater opportunities and akes, letdowns or relationship problems will be 
possible.*****  
omance are kicking in and the time to make your  
move  he way things  
will be in the future. ***  
LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The time i  've been working  

on. A partnership can make a huge difference to your personal and professional funrre. Don't procrastinate. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Check out an organization that can offer you some ideas per­taining to a project you've had trouble getting up and running. Challenges will come from an unusual source but will help to boost your confidence.***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You and you can probably fool some of the people you are dealing with, but the ones who know you best will question, criticize and campi ange your plans in 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You've got all the right moves to get your way and nds. Your sincer­ity and understanding will allow you to build an alliance with someone with the potential to help you in the future. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 18): Be carefnl how you handle emotional issues. You may want to clear the air but do so diplom ds with someone you've been spending time with. Kindness and consideration will be the determining factors. 
** 

p for a whole lot of change and, ifyou don't back down or give in, you stand to get ahead professionally A change in a partnership will enable you to backtrack and fix a mistake you made. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are practical, r for your beliefs and fight for your rights. You are respe dard for others. 

T.I.N.D. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

JEFF KNUREK 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE

SCHAD & fREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek

JmJM~rn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, It's like walking to form four ordinary words. 
on marshmallows 
DOREL ± 
©2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~rrlrJ 
DAN POHLMAN 
POOSUR 
WHAT A

riJ I () 
COMFORTABLE: 

NEW Jumble iPhone App go to: hl1p:lllr.imjumbleapp 
SHOE: C.AN BE:.
tGROOFT t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

IJ I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: rI I xJrI I JTHE rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: FLUTE HASTY SWERVE RAMROD Answer: To some, the banker's son was worth a lot, to others he was -WORTHLESS 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Standing strong 

Senior goalkeeper leads young Irish D 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 
A year after starting all 27 games for No. 10 Notre Dame (8-3-1) with a goals against average (GAA) of 0.44, some would say senior goalkeeper Kelsey Lysander has slipped this year as her GAAjumped to 1.15. What they would fail to notice is Lysander's expanded role as one of only two seniors able to con­sistently play, her adjustment to a young back line and her 0.45 GAA in the seven Irish victories she has played in. 
Lysander first saw consistent playing time last season after learning under Lauren Karas, who graduated in 2008. In her second season as starter, the 
see LYSANDER/page 22 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Walsh still undefeated, beats Badin 
By MEGAN FINNERAN, 
KEVIN BALDWIN, CHRIS 
ALLEN, KAITLYN MURPHY 
and KELLY ZENERE 
Sports Writers 
Walsh 29, Badin 6 
Despite Badin's strongest efforts, Walsh remain undefeated with a 29-6 victory over the Bullfrogs. Unlike their past two games against Pangborn and Cavanuagh, this week the Wild Women domi­nated from beginning to end. 
"It felt pretty nice," junior Undsay Schanzer said. "It's good to be able to relax and get some of the girls in who don't always get a lot of playing time." 
Walsh began its animated cheering even before the game 
see SCHANZER/page 19 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
Tammerine's long sprint catapults Vermin over Zahmbies 
Tammerine received a pitch from induced mi.<;takes. Carroll's deffmse was on a play that did not count running back Greg Bennett
By COLIN KING, ALLAN 
junior quarterback Brian Vaio and led the charge for the Vermin, from its beginning. received unsportsmanlike conduct
JOSEPH, ANDREW OWENS, 
scampered 45 yards down the side­recovering two fumbles and seeur­On third-and-10, Zahm freshman penalties.
MATTHEW ROBISON, LEX 
line for the only touchdown of the ing the game after Tammerine's quarterback Gabe Alvaro seram­"It was just a tough game today,"
DENNIS and TIM SINGLER 
game. touchdown. bled outside the pocket to evade the senior captain Jarred Carter said. 
Sports Writers 
"It was just a total team effort," "Our defense played very well Vermin defensive line. About to go "We made a lot of mistakes that Tammerine said. "The play was today," injured junior captain Nick down, he completed a pass to the really hurt us." Carroll 6, Zahm 0 option right. I received some great Ruof said. "They've been the nearest Zahmbie -the starting The call-back ensured the 
Carroll (2-0-1) outlasted Zahm 6-downfield blocking, and was lucky strength of our team all year and offensive tackle. The lineman rum­Zahmbies would continue their 0 Sunday by playing solid defense, enough to score." today, it showed." bled down the field for a 60-yard winless streak. The Vennin, howev­making fewer mistakes and capital­Tammerine's run was the only The Zahmbies (0-2) wore never score, only for the play to be called er, seem to be going in the opposite izing on one game-deciding play. big offensive play of the game. Both able to mount a real comeback baek due to a penalty. Zahm's frus­direction. 
Early in the third quarter, sopho­defenses dominated the opposing against the Vermin's defense. The tration boiled over after the call, as more running back Nick offenses, forced turnovers and closest they came to tying Carroll both the coach and sophomore see VERMIN/page 21 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles play to host to Calvin 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
After defeating MIAA foe Trine for their first conference victory of the season, the Belles move on to face Calvin today at 4p.m. 
"There was no real turn­around," coach Ryan Crabbe said. "Trine is a developing program. They have had four coaches in four years. We won a game we are supposed to win." 
So while Saint Mary's ( 4-7-1, 1-1) was able to rout Trine, they are not likely to have such an easy time with Calvin, who has won the MIAA title each of the last three years and tied with Hope College for the title in 2005. 
Crabbe noted that not only is Calvin the best team in the con­ference but also one of the best teams in the entire country and 
see CALVIN/page 21 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Transfer Martin tears ACL, out for season 
are expecting Scott to make a full
Observer Stalf Report 
recovery and he will use this year 

Junior guard Scott Martin tore to rehabilitate his knee in prepa­his anterior cruciate ligament ration for the 2010-11 season." (ACL) and will miss the 2009-10 The statement said Martin will season, the athletic department have surgery during the week of said Monday. Oct. 19. 
Martin tore his ACL during a Martin transferred in June preseason vvork-2008 from out on Oct. 1, the Purdue, where 
statement said. he averaged 8.5
"It's now just going to
Magnetic reso­points and 3.8
be a little bit longer
nance imaging rebounds per (MHI) exams wait before we can game during the Monday con-2007-2008 sea­
get him on the court. " 
firmed the injury. son. He sat out 
"I am very dis­last season appointed for Mike Brey because of the Scott," coach Irish coach NCAA transfer Mike Brey said in rules. the statement. "Scott Martin is "l-Ie had worked going to be a very so hard last season in practices good player here at Notre and in the weight room improv­Dame," Brey said. "It's now just ing his overall strength and get­going to be a little bit longer wait ting himself ready to be a big before we can get him on the part of our lineup this season. We court." 

