
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
University sues former employee for fraud 
ND alleges worker inappropriately received $29,387; Gaspar claims she informed school three times ofmisappropriation 
W Jan 15----­z Apr 17 
-Apr 17,20,28_
.....
WMay____ 
Jun ------­-~ Aug 2 7 1--Sept 10----



RHAcalls for recount dueto fraud 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Although Residence Hall Association {RHA) of Saint Mary's College announced the election results for President and Vice President of each res­idence hall Sept. 11, the results were eventually recanted on Sept. 14 after it was revealed that some students had voted more than once. 
"I can neither confirm nor deny whether or not there were candidates that voted more than once, but I can veri­fy that students voted more than once," Patrick Daniel, Director of Student Involvement, said. 
The voting discrepancies were not due to errors in the voting system, Daniel said. 
Although PRISM has been used in the past for voting, the "snap" system was used for the elections that took place this academic year. This system is established through Saint Mary's Institutional Research office that is responsible for conducting and reviewing sur­vey information that is not lim­ited to student activities; it reviews survey information for the entire college, Daniel said. 
The "snap" system pairs a specific link in the voting sur­vey to a specific student. This is how those who review the votes are able to know the name of the student, the stu­
see RHA/page 6 

Gaspar begins her employment with Catering .•. by Design Gaspar receives gratuity for $29,387 Gaspar claims she attempted to contact University University discovers the mispayment University contacts Gaspar about mispayment University files suit against Gaspar Gaspar files letter telling her side of story 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
The University filed suit in St. Joseph County Circuit Court against of one its for­mer employees on Aug. 27, alleging that the defendant was wrongfully overcompen­sated. 
According to the court doc­uments, the defendant, Sara Gaspar, who had worked for Catering... by Design since Jan. 15, was paid the inap­propriate gratuity of $29,387 -instead of the $29.87 to which she was entitled. 
"[The] defendant did not notify the University about 
the inappropriate gratuity, but instead used the money to purchase a motor vehicle and make other payments," the suit claimed. "The University discovered the mistake in May 2009 and requested repayment but [the] defen­dant has refused to make any repayment of the inappropri­ate gratuity." 
In a letter filed with the Court on Sep. 10, Gaspar said while she did use the money to buy a car and pay off some debts, she did attempt to con­tact the University three times after first noticing the inappropriate payment on 
see GASPAR/page 4 


By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
There was a collective sigh of relief across Notre Dame Stadium as the final whistle blew signaling the end of the Irish's 33-30 victory over the Michigan State Spartans on Saturday. It took Irish safety Kyle McCarthy's interception within the final minute of the game to secure the win and save the Irish from another last­minute defeat. 
"It was like Michigan all over again, minus us losing," junior Bradley McDonald said. 
Sophomore Josh Sandler 

Student body relieved after close victory 
McCarthy's game-winning interception helps calm campus after MSU almost pulls upset 
agreed the game was much too close for his liking. 
"It was ugly," Sandler said. "But I guess there's something to be said about being able to win an ugly game." 
With 11 penalties against the Irish costing a total of 99 yards, the officiating was something that many students found fault with. 
"It was more balanced than Michigan," junior Kyle Bailey said. "But I thought they made a bad call when they brought back Michael Floyd's touchdown." 
Sandler said he very upset with the officiating and thought 
see GAME/page 6 

Mahony discusses 'Year of Priests' 
By LAUREN JACOBI News Writer 
Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, archbishop of Los Angeles, dis­cussed the importance of the relationship between the Ministerial Priesthood and the Baptismal Priesthood at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Friday afternoon. 
"This 'Year for Priests' is more than a focus on the unique role of the ordained priesthood within the Catholic Church; it is a focus on the priesthood that every baptized member is called to, the Baptismal Priesthood," Mahony said. 
In order to understand the role of the Baptismal Priesthood, Mahony said, we 

first must come to fully under­stand the role of the Ministerial or Ordained Priesthood. 
Mahony said priests must build up the Church by practic­ing the three-fold mission of witness, worship and service. 
"The role of the Ministerial Priesthood is not one of simply presiding over the sacraments, but is also a role of leadership within a community of co­responsibility," he said. 
According to Mahony, the responsibility of the ordained priests is to engage the priest­hood within the people and then represent the meaning of priesthood for them. Priests do this best when viewing them­selves as a part of the Baptized community, rather than above 
see MAHONY/page 3 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Snuggies at Bookstore page 4 • Review of Dan Brown's Lost Symbol page 12 + Irish Insider middle + Viewpoint page 10 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 21, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Hookups: Tvvo can play 
Naming names in this column is not something that has been previ­ously done, nor something I will begin to do now, but this John Tucker knows who he is, and that is 
good enough for me. 
There is a differ­ence between dat­ing, hooking up and being in a relationship. As many people may be familiar with dating is awk­

ward, hooking up Ashley Charnley is generally done while under the Saint Mary's influence and 
Editor
relationships are messy, but hope­fully worth the reward. However, when you attempt to mix the three, 
there will be trouble. 
In my experience, which may be limited but isn't altogether unim­portant, women don't generally try to do this. It is often times the guys who, upon arriving at college, feel the need to assert their manhood (among other things) by seeing how many girls they can score. Now per­sonally, I see no harm in this to be honest, as long as the men are up front with their intentions, I don't judge. 
In fact, I don't judge people as a rule of thumb. However, when what a certain male has done affects one of your friends, there must be some sort of retribution. In this case, I don't believe in violence, but I do believe in words. 
One day, and maybe this is simply my wishful thinking, you will have done to you what you have done to these women and it will give you at least some small twinge of regret. But in reality, we all know this isn't true. So, what I am saying now goes out to all those women who have been scorned. 
The Golden Rule no longer applies. The only way to make a guy like this empathize is to make him feel your pain. So, learn how to date like these men date, and maybe you will begin to learn why they are the way they are. 
In the end ladies, this isn't to teach them a lesson. More than likely, they don't have the mental capacity to learn it. What this will hopefully accomplish for you is an understanding. In this way, the next time you meet a guy who is simulta­neously dating, trying to hook up and nursing a relationship, you will know. His MO will be painfully obvi­ous. 
The only goal I have with these words is to prevent those girls who are looking for genuine together­ness to steer as far away from these guys as possible. For those of you who don't mind playing games, I am simply giving you more openings to play with. 
In the end, I suppose, all any girl really wants is to have a little fun. So, how about we have a little fun at his expense for once, and not our own. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In me Sept. 18m issue ofThe Observer, me front page cutline incorrectly referred to Jordan Prebys as a student viewing the "Thin" exhibit. Prebys is not a student at me University. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE BIG 10 REFS IN THIS SATURDAY'S GAME? 




Marissa Baun  Adam Fonseco  Fritz Schoenhut  Brendan Dougherty  Cathy Rivera  Jackie Bowe  
senior  senior  junior  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Lyons  St. Edward's  St. Edward's  St. Edward's  Howard  Pangborn  
"I just thought  "Big 10 really  'They can have  "Interhall refs  "It was  "I obviously  
they were  ,isn't that big.  my big 10."  are better than  frustrating  didn 't agree  
totally unfair!"  Big 1 o refs. "  watching them  with them.  It  
make all those  could have  
calls against  turned out bad  
us. Just notfi 0 ,,azr.  but luckily it didn't."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Naked man, 91, holds drunk Intruder at gunpoint 
LAKE WORTH, Fla. ­Authorities said a naked 91-year-old man was able to hold a drunken intruder at gunpoint until deputies arrived. Robert E. Thompson jumped out of bed early Saturday when his dog starting growling and attacking the intrud­er. He said he got his revolver and went out back to let the guy know how he felt about home invaders. 
Thompson, a World War II veteran, said he didn't even notice he was stand­ing outside in the dark without any clothes on. 
Authorities arrived to find a drunk intruder being held outside by a naked homeowner. 
The 26-year-old intruder was booked into the Palm Beach County Jail on a burglary charge. 
Woman uses $20 bill from 1934 at local UPS store 
DICKINSON, N.D. ­What a Dickinson busi­ness manager thought was a worthless counter­feit $20 bill turned out to be worth more than even face value. A woman who came into the UPS Store paid with a $20 bill that had been printed in 1934. Store manager Nancy Kostelecky said the bill is in pristine condition. 
The woman who paid with the bill was unsure where she got it. Kostelecky said it's a mys­tery where it came from and why it had not been in circulation. She ended up buying it from the woman. 
Dickinson Police Detective Chris Coates did some checking and says similar bills are selling on eBay for up to $134. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:z:: 
!cC 
LLI 
3: 


0,,,,,,,

0,,,,,,,
..... 
,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,,

e<C 
(.) 
..... 0 HIGH 75 HIGH 60 HIGH 86 HIGH 81 
LOW 59 LOW 57 LOW 60 LOW 57 IN BRIEF 
Free flu shots will be avail­able to Notre Dame faculty, staff and students on Tuesday through Thursday, at Stepan Center from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Tuesday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Wednesday, and 1 p.m. to 8 
p.m. on Thursday. Current NO ID and short sleeves required. 
A lecture, FfT Talks: Douglas Lieblien, will be held Sept. 24 at 160 Mendoza College of Business at 6 p.m. Lieblien, Emmy-nominated writer and Co-Executive Producer of Hannah Montana, will present "Crazy Town Incorporated." This event is free. 
A lecture, "Comparative and World Literature Today," will be held Friday at 209 DeBartolo Hall from 1 p.m. to 3 
p.m. Emily Apter, professor of French and Comparative Literature at New York University, will be giving the lec­ture. 
Northeast Neighborhood Council's Annual Back to School Picnic will be held Sept. 25 at the Robinson Community Learning Center from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30p.m. Notre Dame faculty, staff and students are invited for free food and entertainment. 
A film, "Earth Days" (2009), will be shown at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Friday at 9:30 p.m. The film recounts the history of the mod­ern environmental movement. Buy tickets online at performin­garts.nd.edu or at the Ticket Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 78 HIGH 81 LOW 51 LOW 51 
Atlanta 79 I 68 Boston 76 I 56 Chicago 76 I 60 Denver 49 I 40 Houston 89 I 74 Los Angeles 84 I 64 Minneapolis 75 I 62 New York 75 I 62 Philadelphia 77 I 63 Phoenix 106 I 77 Seattle 79 I 55 St. Louis 82 I 64 Tampa 92 I 75 Washington 79 I 66 
Monday, September 21, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Target chief stresses values 
By ROBERT SINGER Assistant News Editor 
A business strategy guided by employee development and steady values can allow a company to compete with the world's largest retailer, Chairman. President and Chief Executive Officer of Target Corp. Gregg Steinhafel said during a "Boardroom Insights" lecture Friday in the Mendoza Business College. 
In the early 1990s, when Wal-Mart began to implement more aggressive pricing tac­tics, Target faced a "cross­roads" -the retailer could compete with Wal-Mart and Kmart for the same consumer base, or it could develop a new strategy, Steinhafel said. 
"That was when Wal-Mart was gammg incredible momentum and they were basically wiping out every­body, and we had to do decide, are we going to com­pete with them?" he said. 
Steinhafel said rather than targeting the same market segment as Wal-Mart and Kmart, the executives at Target decided to market their store to wealthier consumers. 
"The second decision that we made is that we're going to differentiate ourselves from them. We decided to make a more upscale franchise," he said. "Kmart and Wal-Mart fought for the same demo­graphic. We knew if we didn't attack differently, we wouldn't be around." 
From insights gained during Target's business transition, Steinhafel discussed the importance of talent develop­ment, a foundation of firm values and balancing the needs of a corporation's con­stituencies. He said one of the key differences between Target and its biggest com­petitor is their respective cor­porate cultures. 
"I would tell you this: they are a productivity culture, we are a development culture," he said. "They focus on pri­marily results. We focus both on what you do and how you do it." 
Steinhafel explained Target's development culture, emphasizing its focus on employee cohesion and con­tinuing education as well as "organizational alignment." 
"It's not different than what you do as students and faculty for pep rallies," Steinhafel added. 
.To stimulate excitement and camaraderie among employ­ees for selling consumer prod­ucts, Target holds a national convention annually with celebrity appearances, well­known music groups and a fashion show. 
Steinhafel also discussed the importance of developing effective leaders within a company. 
"I spend a lot of time on tal­ent. If they tell you it's strate­gy or execution, it doesn't matter unless you have the right team in place to get it done," he said. "Eventually, if you don't have a company that breeds great leaders, it's not a self-sustaining strategy." 
According to Steinhafel, Target serves four main groups -guests, communi­ties, team members and shareholders -and none of these constituencies can "be neglected. 
He said Target seeks to help its customers differentiate themselves from shoppers at other stores, helping them to take on a more appealing identity. 
"We call them guests not shoppers, because we want to treat our shoppers' aspira­tions," he said. 
But Steinhafel said a good business treats all its con­stituencies with equal appre­ciation. 
"If you only focus on your shopper, you're probably not focusing on your shareholders and that's going to limit your growth," he said. 
Steinhafel also emphasized that people should have expectations for corporations that go beyond the balance sheet, citing "bad pay prac­tices" and other detrimental behavior from corporations that "can put their enterprises at risk and put the country at risk." 
"We were founded in a way that put corporate values right at the center of who we are as an organization," he said. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

Mahony 
continued from page 1 
them due to ordination, he said. 
"Priests today must know how to draw all members together in communion and service," he said. "Thus, creating a strong commu­nity of participation and collabo­ration." 
Mahony said one of the most important parts of a priests' life is teaching. 
"In order to foster participa­tion and collaboration among the baptized faithful, a priest's pri­mary duty must become one of teacher," he said. 
Mahony said teaching is much more than the delivery of a good homily, however. Teaching involves guiding, leading, enlight­ening and encouraging the bap­tized faithful so as to create a community of participation and collaboration. 
'The relationship between the Ministerial Priesthood and the Baptismal Priesthood is that the Ministerial Priesthood is at the service of the Baptismal Priesthood and is the means by which Christ builds up and leads His Church," he said. 

For his final point, Mahony drew on the most recent encycli­cal of Pope Benedict XVI, "Teaching Charity in Truth," arguing how this encyclical reit­erates the relationship between the ordained and the baptized. 
In "Teaching Charity in Truth," Pope Benedict XVI said the Church is given moral authority to work out the social problems that the world faces today. 
"The Ordained Priesthood must began small. Through the Homily, they must invite their Parishes to be alert of a social order more in line with the Church's Teachings. Yet, at the same time, they cannot simply tell their parishioners what to do," Mahony said. 
Contact Lauren Jacobi at ljacobi@nd.edu 
The Entrepreneurship Club presents: 
3 ND •o1 Alurns Create a New Option "for O"f"f-Carnpus ND Student Housing 

www.RentLikeAChampion.com 

From 0 to 30 properties in just 4 years 
Also offer ND Football \Neekend Rentals for parents and fans. Nice homes near campus for half the price of hotels. 
Come hear their story at the Entrepreneurship Club meeting. Tuesday 7:00PM, Sept:. 22 in DeBart: 155 
Free Pizza provided!!!! 
• page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 21, 2009 



Bookstore hosts Snuggie give-away through Facebook 
As many as 50 students can win popular blanket-robe as promotion will last throughout 2009 football season 
By TESS CNANTOS 
News Writer 
Florida State's football team may be ahead of Notre Dame's in the polls, but the Notre Dame bookstore's marketing team is winning in the friendly rivalry between the two schools' marketing managers -thanks to its "snuggie" give­away. 
"We have a bit of a rivalry with Florida State because my friend is the marketing manag­er there," Kristin Blitch, mar­keting manager for the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, said. "It's a friendly competition, but I'm deter­mined to prove that Notre Dame rules all." 
The Bookstore will give away 50 snuggies, or blankets with sleeves, emblazoned with the Notre Dame logo throughout the football season. Winners are selected from the 1,840 fans of the Facebook page for the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Florida State's bookstore does not have a Facebook page. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore has previously given away a free copy of The Shirt to every 100th fan, but chose to 


Gaspar 
continued from page 1 
April 17 -once that day, once on April 20 and once on April 28. 
"I never heard a word back," Gaspar said in a state­ment to the court. 

give away snuggies this year because of their growing popu­larity. 
"Everyone loves snuggies," Blitch said. 
Four snuggies will be given away at each football game. If the winner joined the Facebook page thanks to a friend's sug­gestion, the friend will also receive a gift. 
"Anyone who's a fan of the bookstore can win," Blitch said. "But this is primarily intended for students because students would enjoy it the most." 
The exact formula for choos­ing winners is still a work in progress. 
"We're open to suggestions," Blitch said. "We'd like to do something creative, like using the score at the end of each quarter to pick a winner." 
The Notre Dame snuggie pro­motion has a two-fold purpose, Blitch said. It is partly a way to attract students to join the bookstore's Facebook page, so that students can be notified of special discounts and other benefits. It is also a way to cre­ate some fun for participating students. 
"We know how hard you work and how much studying takes out of you," Blitch said. "It's fun to get things for free." 
asking for Gaspar to repay the $29,387 as well as "awarding the University its costs and expenses incurred in this action, including attor­ney fees, and all other just and proper relief." 
Gaspar, however, alleged the University is "not telling the whole truth." 
"I am very frightened and I 
However, University know that no matter what I spokesman Dennis Brown do I will never win against a said Notre Dame did attempt power such as this school," to contact Gaspar to arrange she said in her statement. for a mutually beneficial set­Gaspar said she believed no tlement outside of court. one wanted to respond to her 
"We made every effort to three calls because of an inci­resolve this dent she claims 

& APRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 

Dtlm Wd-to-UunJnl$ Studmt Apmtmmts 
·~ ~ 

• Sl;~o'<tdlk.\.-1 ~~!i.i~d..W~(...,., • ~W,~.htnwt24P.e;d:;~o.\(O,, ..,;;~~&. U..~f.Gwt 
• ftet~W.
·fM~W. 

• fnrWaJltr.tDrytriuadumit
,. '"'*~~r:::t~ 
• HiJ\~W_.IRmel_.~
• •· · ;r.t.w~&air::h=~~~'"~ 
~caltla:Wri 
• O.~l!m:...,..~.:C\! ·r•mct 
· o.SNM 1••,.u.jjj,.,.,..., 
• Or~~!Jim • O.SikScudfOib 
matter before litigation, but 'There's more to this were unable to than what has been 
do so," Brown 
reported, but we're 
said. 
Moreover, not going to debate Brown claimed these issues through 
the stories that 
the media., 
sprung up in the national media last Dennis Brown week publiciz­
University spokesman 
ing the lawsuit omitted some key details. However, he would not elaborate any fur­ther. 
"There's more to this than what has been reported, but we're not going to debate these issues through the media," he said. "We're confi­dent of our position in this matter and we're going to let the legal system take its course." 
The University's suit alleges one claim of unjust enrich­ment, one claim of fraud and one claim of conversion. 
"[The] defendant knew the payment was in error and should have notified the University, but instead accepted and used the inap­propriate gratuity," the suit said. "The defendant's know­ing and intentional accept­ance and use if the inappro­priate gratuity is an act of fraud." 
Ultimately, Notre Dame is 

occurred while she was work­ing at an alumni function. 
"A Gentleman (use loosely) who was an Alumni grabbed my private area while I was serving food," she said. "I told [redacted] about this incident 
and he laughed. So I thought maybe that was why no one wanted to talk to me." 
Gaspar said in June she "received a phone call threat­ening me that I had to repay this amount [but] by then I had bought a vehicle." 
Gaspar said she is willing to take a lie detector test to combat the claims that she never attempted to contact the University, and she has been suffering emotional problems since receiving the summons. 
"I had told my whole family and I thought finally some­thing wonderful had hap­pened in my life," she said. "Now I am suffering severe anguish and depression over this. I feel frightened enough that I have thought about doing very severe things." 
Gaspar said her employ­ment at Catering... by Design has since been terminated 
The snuggies were donated by the bookstore and the varsi­ty shops and are also available for sale in the bookstore. 
Junior Becky Sharon saw the promotion on her Facebook home page and decided to join, hoping that she would "luck out" and win a snuggie against the odds. 
"They look really warm," Sharon said. "And you can never have enough Notre Dame gear." 
Sophomore Brian Bettonville enjoyed how easy it was to enter the promotion. His moth­er has a snuggie at home, so he has first-hand experience with snuggies. 
"I have always thought that the snuggie was more of a punch line than a useful blan­ket," Bettonville said. "But I would definitely use it if I won." 
The Notre Dame-branded snuggies hold a particular appeal for students and fans. 
"I think the Notre Dame ones look cool," Bettonville said. "If you can say that any snuggies truly look cool." 
Although the Bookstore is using the snuggie promotion to convince students to become fans of its Facebook page, Bettonville thinks that the pro-
and now she has no money to pay for her own attorney, let alone the University's. 
"I have no home, no money, all the money is gone to pay for bills and I still have med­ical bills," she said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

motion is not entirely neces­The winners of the Michigan sary. State snuggie give-away will be 
"I didn't mind being a fan of announced Monday on the the bookstore and might have bookstore's Facebook page. been a fan of it even without the give-away," Bettonville Contact Tess Civantos at said. tcivanto@nd.edu 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

3,4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 21/2 Baths 
Free Internet Washer,Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Located Close to Notre Dame 
$300 Signing Bonus for 2010-2011 
Lease for only$350permonth, perstudent! 
V.ew all ofour townhomes. apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574) 234-2436 









ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 21, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVERs WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Cubans flock to 'peace concert' 
HAVANA -Hundreds of thousands of Cubans floeked to sprawling Revolution Plaza on Sunday for an open-air "peace concert" headlined by Colombian rocker Juanes, an event criticized by some Cuban-Americans who say the performers are lending support to the i<>land's communi'it gov­ernment simply by showing up. 
Miguel Bose, one of the other singers in the mega-concert, announced the crowd size at 1.15 million. It was impossible to independently verifY that number, but Juanes' visit to Cuba was clearly the biggest by an outsider sinm Pope John Paul II's 1998 tour. 
Hundreds of public buses ferried young and old to the concert site, and the government laid on even more transportation, hoping for a large turnout. 
Sudan claims more victories in Darfur 
KHARTOUM -The Sudanese army said Sunday it has cleared several more areas of rebel control in North Darfur province ahead of peace talks set for October. Rebels denied the government claims. 
The state news agency quoted the military saying it had targeted in particular the Sudan Liberation Army of exiled rebel leader Abdelwahid Elnur, the largest rebel movement . 
There was no word about casualties, only that the army had "purged the areas of the rem­nants" ofthe rebels. 
The government claims could not be inde­pendently verified. They follow rebel reporL'i of intense fighting in the area starting Thursday. SlA members said at least three of their fighters were killed and many civilians were displaced. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Obama sends team to Olympic site 
WASHINGTON -The White House is sending an advance team to Copenhagen, Denmark, to make preparations in case President Barack Obama decides to attend the International Olympic Committee's meeting there next month, an administra­tion official says. 
The committee will choose a host city for the 2016 summer Olympics during the Oct. 2 meeting. Obama's hometown of Chicago is a finalist, but the president has said he can't commit to attending the meeting because of the health care reform debate in the U.S. 
First lady Michelle Obama, a Chicago native, will attend and make a presenta­tion to the committee. 
The White House official spoke on back­ground because a final decision has not yet been made on the president's plans. 
Army's ROTC ranks increase 
NORTHFIELD, Vt. -Burgeoning ranks of Army ROTC students are filling college classrooms around the nation this fall as the Army seeks to beef up its officer corps with its generous scholarship program that pays the college tuition of students who are commissioned as 2nd lieutenants when they graduate. 
At the hillside campus of Norwich University, the nation's oldest private mili­tary college, more than three times as many Army ROTC students are enrolled this year over last. Most of the nation's 273 colleges and universities with ROTC programs report similar increases as the Army grows its officer corps. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana ranks 2nd in methlab seizures 
WEST LAFAYETTE -Authorities say a 2005 Indiana law limiting cold medicine sales led to a decline in homegrown metham­phetamine labs, but abuse of the drug is still a significant problem in the state. 
Indiana ranks second in the country for meth lab seizures and incidents reported to the Drug Enforcement Agency. It was one of 16 states recently targeted for an education­al campaign by the White House's Office of National Drug Control Policy. 
The new educational campaign began Sept. 1 and highlights addiction recovery and meth use prevention. 

Marijuana legislation causes chaos 
Laws on medicinal uses of drug create confusion and bring lawsuits in Wash. 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -In one corner of Washington state, a 62­year-old rheumatoid arthri­tis patient could face more than eight years in prison for growing marijuana for himself and three others. In Seattle, meanwhile, a collec­tion of grow operations serves 2,000 people with lit­tle interference from police. 
The discrepancy is typical of the confusion that has reigned since voters passed Washington's medical mari­juana law more than a decade ago. Nor have things improved much since the state clarified how much pot patients can have last year. 
Unlike some states, Washington requires patients to grow marijuana themaelves or designate a caregiver to grow it for them. For many, that's unre­alistic: They're too sick to grow cannabis themselves and don't have the thou­sands of dollars it can cost for a caregiver to set up a proper growing operation. 
So they've devised their own schemes, claiming to meet the letter of the law in establishing collective grows or storefront dispensaries ­methods that are making police and prosecutors increasingly uncomfortable. 

"The spirit of the law Some activists and the issued guidelines to give activists focused on that lan­would recognize the necessi­American Civil Liberties police and patients alike an guage in setting up a for­ty of having small coopera­Union of Washington recent­idea of how much pot was profit dispensary called tive ventures," said Dan ly began discussions with OK: Up to 15 plants and 24 Change. Satterberg, the prosecutor in Seattle police over whether ounces of dried marijuana Lawyer Frank Cikutovich King County, where Seattle to limit the size of coopera­per patient. People can have said the business met legal is. "But if they get past a cer­tive grows. more if they demonstrate requirements: A lone patient tain size, become a magnet In Spokane this month, need. would enter the store, sign a for neighborhood violence, police shut down a medical Police in some jurisdic­document designating the or you get other people marijuana dispensary -the tions have applied the guide­shop as his or her caregiver, showing up to buy marijua­first such bust in the state -lines strictly, arresting peo­and buy marijuana. The na who are not permitted to and arrested the two own­ple simply for having more agreement expired when the under the law, then there's ers. They warned a half­than 15 plants, even if they patient left and the next cus­tension." dozen other dispensaries to possessed no usable mari­tomer came in. 
Three years ago, close as well, and the raid juana. In Seattle, Satterberg The business, raided on Satterberg's office declined quickly drew protests from issued a memo to law Sept. 10, rendered the "one to prosecute a man who was patients. The raid has set up enforcement saying he was­patient, one caregiver" rule growing 130 plants for 40 a high-profile court fight. n't interested in dragging meaningless, Spokane police people. But a case this year Approved by voters in sick people to court. Some spokeswoman Jennifer may be testing his tolerance: 1998, it allows doctors to other counties have also DeRuwe said. She said there He hasn't decided whether recommend cannabis as a adopted a lenient view. was peripheral crime associ­to charge a hepatitis patient treatment for a series of Washington's law says that ated with the dispensary, caught with 200 plants, debilitating or terminal con­a caregiver can only provide including robberies at grow which he claimed supplied ditions -a smaller range of marijuana to one patient at sites and street sales from more than 100 other illnesses than California's any one time. In Spokane people who had purchased patients. law. A year ago, the state this year, medical marijuana pot there. 


RUSSIA 

Russia will not deploy rrtissles near Poland 
Associated Press Moscow will make any significant conces­Popovkin's statement was the most 
sions on Iran and other issues in response explicit declaration yet of Russia's inten­

MOSCOW-Russia said Saturday it will to President Barack Obama's move to tion to scrap the plan after Obama's deci­scrap a plan to deploy missiles near scrap the Bush-era plan for U.S. missile sion, which was announced Thursday. Poland since Washington has dumped a defense in Poland and the Czech Republic. Popovkin later added, however, that the planned missile shield in Eastern Europe. Russia's Deputy Defense Minister final decision on the subject can only be It also harshly criticized Iran's president Vladimir Popovkin told Ekho Moskvy made by Russian President Dmitry for new comments denying the Holocaust. radio Saturday that Obama's move has Medvedev, Russian news agencies report­
Neither move, however, represented made the deployment of Iskander short­ed. Medvedev hasn't yet spoken on the ceding any significant ground. A plan to range missiles in the Kaliningrad region issue. place Iskander missiles close to the Polish unnecessary. Russia staunchly opposed the plan by border was merely a threat. And while He described Obama's move as "victory the former administration of George W. the Kremlin has previously criticized of reason over ambitions." Bush to deploy 10 missile interceptors in Tehran for questioning the reality of the "Naturally, we will cancel countermea­Poland and a related radar in the Czech Holocaust, Russian leaders have refused sures which Russia has planned in Republic and said if the project went to back Western push for tougher sanc­response, one of which was the deploy­ahead it would respond by deploying the tions against Iran. ment of Iskander missiles in the Iskander missiles in its westernmost 
It still remains unclear whether Kaliningrad region," Popovkin said. Baltic Sea region. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 21, 2009 
that we would have won in injury, Clausen still threw for aGa01e overtime," he said. total of 301 yards. This is the One thing that is a concern fourth consecutive game that continued from page 1 for Irish football fans is the Clausen has passed for over 
injuries from yesterday's game. 300 yards. that it really hindered the Quarterback Jimmy Clausen "That's typical Jimmy Irish. missed two plays after sustain­Clausen," Corrigan said. "He's 
"To me, it's mind-blowing ing an injury so good he can that another Big 10 crew comes he received to get away with to our game and reviews as his right foot "It was like Michigan things like that." many plays as they did," he when he was all over again, minus While Clausen's said. sacked in the injury does not
us losing."

Most Notre Dame fans were second quar­appear to be incredibly thankful for ter. serious, sopho­McCarthy's interception on the "If he's really Bradley McDonald more wide COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer four-yard line with 57 sneonds hurt it's partic­junior receiver Michael Notre Dame fans cheer on the Irish against the Spartans Friday. left in the game, in the middle ularly unfortu­Floyd's injury 
Michigan State almost upset the Irish. of a Michigan State drive that nate because from yesterday was poised to score. he's gotten really accurate," could be detrimental. 
"If he hadn't made that inter­Sandler said. Floyd was taken out of the ception I think MSU would have Other students don't think game in the first half and it was scored at least a field goal that there is little cause for con­later reported that he had bro­which would have put us into cern in regards to Clausen's ken his collarbone. Floyd had overtime," jun-injury. surgery on Sunday morning but ior Eddie "He's still a it appears that he might be out Corrigan said. pocket quarter­for the rest of the season.
"Ifhe hadn't made 

"But I have b a c k , " "Prior to Saturday's game,
that interception I 

faith that we McDonald said. Floyd was second in the nation would have think MSU would "Hurting his foot in receiving yards per game won overtime won't really and was first in yards per
have scored at least a 

and the defense a(fect his arm so eatch.
field goal which 

would have I don't think it "I have one word that been able to would have put us will affect his describes Michael Floyd's injury make at least playing much -devastating," Corrigan said.
into overtime." 

one stop." overall." "It's a huge loss and really McDonald Bailey agrees hurts our offense." 
Eddie Corrigan 

said that he that Clausen will Bailey agrees that Floyd's 
thinks the Irish junior be healthy. absence from the game will be 
would have "He played damaging to the Irish's season. 
won regardless through whatev­"It really is heartbreaking," 
of McCarthy's interception. er happened yesterday," Bailey he said. "Now we really need 
"There's always a chance of said. "He's a football player; it's some new receivers to step up." 
anything happening but I think just the typical bumps and 
Cornerback Raeshon McNeil, center, celebrates with fans after that we would have only bruises." Contact Molly Madden at 
McCarthy's interception had sealed the Irish victory. allowed MSU a field goal and Despite playing with an mmadden3@nd.edu 


RHA 
continued from page 1 
dent's vote and what time the student voted. The set-up of the system enables the voting reviewers to identify which stu­dents voted more than once. 
"The system is not set-up to prevent students from voting more than once because we believe our students should be able to do what is right instead of being prevented from doing something wrong," Daniel said. 
The instructions stated stu­dents were to vote only once, and if they voted more than once, only one vote would be counted. 
"Our voting is based on a fact that students understand that you vote only once as stated in the directions," Daniel said. "People should understand that there is only one vote per per­son, without even having to read the tions; however,

"Our voting is based on
directions." unlike the hall 
While there a fact that students council elec­is no error in understand that you tions, all of the the system, candidates who
vote only once as stated
the language ran in the first of the voting in the directions. " election are eli­directions will gible for re-elec­be more tion.
Patrick Daniel 

explicitly The initial
Director of Student

clear for Class of 2013
Involvement

future elec­election was 
tions to make sure that peo­ple understand they should only vote once, Daniel said. 
The hall council directors informed candidates of the vot­ing discrepancies Friday via e­mail. 
First year student London Lamar, who ran and won for McCandless Hall Council in the initial election, is disappointed with the manner in which the situation was handled. 
"I feel that the decisions that were made were not fair nor was it handled in a way that all the candidates could of been pleased," Lamar said. "It is also unfair to the candidates that won already. They now have to run again, moreover, with possible new candidates who were not a part of the election process in the first place." 

Lamar will not be running for re-election. Her previous run­ning mate, first year student Cara O'Connor, will be running in the new election for presi­dent of McCandless hall coun­cil. 
"I would like to run again but unfortunately I cannot because of issues beyond my control," Lamar said. "If I could run again, I definitely would. Hopefully this new election goes more smoothly and the 'discrepancies' will never have to happen again. I wish the future candidates my best luck and wishes." 
Hall Council elections are not the only elections for which students have to re-vote. Due to different reasons, the Class of 2013 is also holding re-elec­
ruled invalid 

because a link identified with one student of the Class of 2013 was copied from the email and sent to an undisclosed off-campus Web site. This means that people not affiliated with or a part of Saint Mary's College could have voted in the election, Daniel said. 
Although Daniel confirmed that this was not done inten­tionally, the results of the elec­tion were ruled invalid. 
In order to prevent either sit­uation from occurring in the future, directions for voting will be that each link sent is specif­ic to an individual and should not be copied and sent to any­place Sept. 24 beginning at 8 one else or any off-campus a.m. through 8 a.m. Sept. 25. sites. Students will be notified of the 
The Class of 2013 will be able results on Friday. to re-vote for president and "It is important to know that vice president today 8 a.m. an overwhelming majority of through Sept. 22 at 8 a.m. our students in the Hall Council 
The Hall Council elections for and Class of 2013 elections Holy Cross, Le Mans and only voted one time in their McCandless Halls will take respective elections," Daniel said. "Unfortunately, because of the few that did not follow this in the Hall council elections and the unintentional mistake of sending out the link in the Class of 2013 elections, both elections must be held again." 


Contact Megan Loney at m1oney0 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Information Session  
Trinity College Dublin, Ireland  
1) 2) 3)  Study at prestigious Trinity College Dublin Advice on how to complete the Trinity hard copy application Immerse into an Irish University and still be part ofa Notre Dame Community  
VVednesday,Sept.23,2009 6:00 pm 117 Hayes Healy  
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2009 FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2010-2011 APPLICATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDU/-QIS  

-------------------------------------------------" 

Monday, September 21, 2009 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,820.20 +36.28 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,769 93 1,282 2,309,339,867 

AM~~I!t;·· 


NASDAQ 2,132.86 +6.11 NYSE .[lf~"'VY i7}0~~~~~~~~~~~~~: S&P 500 1,068.30 +2.81 NII(Kfl..(TokyoJ!Ill~l,~o;!BIJ.III !illllliBiJII FTSE 100 (London) 5,172.89 +8.94 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) *3,62 *0.16 4.26 E"TRADE Financial Corp (ETFC) +8.24 +0.14 1.84 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) +0.11 +0.02 17.63 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.07 +0.07 106.72 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.24 +0.0760 3.47 13-WEEK BILL -15.79 -0.02 0.08 30-YEAR BOND + 1.27 +0.0530 4.23 5-YEAR NOTE +3.49 +0.0830 2.46 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.43 72.04 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.20 1,010.3 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.00 84.60 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 91.3600 EURO 1.4704 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0694 BRITISH POUND 1.6272 
IN BRIEF 

GM-Suzuki workers OK new contract 
NEW YORK -Nearly two-thirds of union workers at a Canadian auto plant jointly owned by General Motors and Suzuki have approved a new contract that would freeze wages and pen­sions. trim benefits. introduce a monthly health care contribution and reduce break times. 
However, the new contract at the CAMI Automotive Inc. assembly plant puts base wages on par with General Motors for the. first time ever. The agreement also provides for the pro­duction of a new model to replace the Chevrolet Equinox and the GMC Terrain in 2014, a crucial element, Canadian Auto Workers President Ken Lewenza said in a statement Sunday .. 
"While these contract changes are difficult for our members, I hope they will help usher in a decade of prosperity for the CAMI facility, which will guarantee goodjobs well into the future," Lewenza said.labore et dolore magna aliqua. 
Canadian Auto Workers Local 88 members approved changes that make their new three­year agreement similar to those reached at both Chrysler and General Motors earlier this spring. Much of the agreement will be effective in September 2010, when the existing contract expires. 

Lawsuit against Big Poultry looms 
SCRAPER, Okla. -David Overbey is no scien­tist, but he says a person doesn't have to be to see how much the Illinois River has improved in recent years. 
Overbey, a 6 7 -year-old retired laborer who spends his days fishing the river in the foothills of the Ozarks in eastern Oklahoma, said the water is clearer now than it was 30 or 40 years ago, and the drum and channel catfish he catches are bigger. And other locals, too, say the river is slowly beginning to heal after decades of deterioration. 
Some trace the roots of the recovery to 2005, when Oklahoma brought a pollution lawsuit against the Arkansas poultry industry, suggest­ing the threat of legal action may have spurred the companies to do better at policing them­selves. 
"The water quality is getting better, and this year, especially, we had very little algae," said Archie "Trey" Peyton lll, 35, a former environ­mental consultant who now runs the Peyton's Place float company. 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Youth hunt for jobs in China 
Young foreigners sfek employment zn Beijing's thriving economy 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -When the best job Mikala Reasbeck could find after college in Boston was counting pills part-time in a drugstore for $7 an hour, she took the drastic step of jumping on a plane to Beijing in February to look for work. 
A week after she started looking, the 23-year-old from Wheeling, West Virginia, had a full-time job teaching English. 
"I applied for jobs all over the U.S. There just weren't any," said Reasbeck, who speaks no Chinese but had volun­teered at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. In China, she said, "the jobs are so easy to find. And there are so many." 
Young foreigners like Reasbeck are coming to China to look for work in its unfamiliar but less bleak economy, driven by the worst job markets in decades in the United States, Europe and some Asian countries. 
Many do basic work such as teaching English, a serv­ice in demand from Chinese businesspeople and students. But a grow­ing number are arriving with skills and experience in computers, finance and growth to 7.9 percent from and pay for help in carry­15 working days, compared other fields. a year earlier in the quar­ing out business research, with a wait of months or 
"China is really the land ter that ended June 30, up getting into schools, fmding longer that might be of opportunity now, com­from 6.1 percent the previ­people and other tasks. required in some other pared to their home coun­ous quarter. The govern­"I noticed the turn the countries. An employer has tries," said Chris Watkins, ment says millions of jobs economy was taking, and to explain why it needs to manager for China and will be created this year, decided it would be best to hire a foreigner instead of Hong Kong of MRI China though as many as 12 mil­go directly to China," said a Chinese national, but the Group, a headhunting firm. lion job-seekers still will be Carr, who studied Chinese government says it gives "This includes college grad­unable to find work. for eight years. special consideration to uates as well as maybe Andrew Carr, a 23-year­Most of his classmates people with technical or more established business­old Cornell University grad­stayed in the United States management skills. people, entrepreneurs and uate, saw China as a safer and have taken some Rules were tightened executives from companies alternative after class­unusual jobs -one as a ahead of the 2008 Beijing ., around the world." mates' offers of Wall Street fishing guide in Alaska. Olympics, apparently to 
Watkins said the number jobs were withdrawn due China can be more acces­keep out possible protest­

of resumes his company to the economic turmoil. sible to job hunters than ers. That forced some for­receives from abroad has Passing up opportunities economies where getting eign workers to leave as tripled over the past 18 in New York, San Francisco work permits is harder, their visas expired. months. and Boston, Carr started such as Russia and some Some 217,000 foreigners 
China's job market has work in August at bangy­European Union countries. held work permits at the been propped up by ibang.com, a Web site in Employers need govern­end of 2008, up !'rom Beijing's 4 trillion yuan the southern Chinese city of ment permission to hire 210,000 a year earlier, ($586 billion) stimulus, Shenzhen that lets the pub­foreigners, but authorities according to the National which helped to boost lic or companies advertise promise an answer within Bureau of Statistics. 

Health insurance will not increase taxes 
son-shopping "exchange" to tax cred­over the next 10 years -can be
Associated Press 

its. achieved from savings within the cur­
WASHINGTON -President Barack Telling people to get health insur­rent system. Coming up with the rest Obama says requiring people to get ance is absolutely not a tax increase, remains a key legislative obstacle. health insurance and fining them if Obama told ABC's "This Week." Republican National Committee they don't would not amount to a "What it's saying is, is that we're Chairman Michael Steele said there is backhanded tax increase. not going to have other people carry­no way Obama can achieve his goals 
"I absolutely reject that notion," the ing your burdens for you anymore," without raising taxes. president said. Blanketing most of the said Obama. "Right now everybody in "He has to. How else do you pay for Sunday TV news shows, Obama America, just about, has to get auto it?" he told CBS. defended his proposed health care insurance. Nobody considers that a Obama put his support behind the overhaul, including a key point of the tax increase." idea of taxing employers that offer various heal~h care bills on Capitol Obama faces an enormous political high-cost insurance plans. Hill: mandating that people get health and communications challenge in sell­"I do think that giving a disincentive insurance to share the cost burden ing his health care plan as Congress to insurance companies to offer fairly among all. Those who failed to debates how to pay for it all. Cadillac plans that don't make people get coverage would face financial He told CBS' "Face the Nation" that healthier is part of the way that we're penalties. he will keep his pledge not to raise going to bring down health care costs 
Obama said other elements of the taxes on families earning up to for everybody over the long term," plan would make insurance afford­$250,000, and that much of the final Obama said on NBC's "Meet the able for people, from a new compari-bill -hundreds of billions of dollars Press." 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Mondar., September 21, 2009 

Bloomberg seeks unique supporters 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Billionaire Mayor Michael Bloomberg is likely to set another spending record in this year's mayoral race, but he appears to be aim­ing for a more obscure honor as well -the candidate with the most peculiar endorsements. 
Bloomberg's campaign released a lighthearted video this week featuring the mayor hounding a skeptical Matt Damon for his endorsement, arguing that it really could do him some good. 
Damon, a Boston native who now lives in Miami, has no con­nection to New York politics and arguably no influence over elec­tions here. The movie star also exemplifies the Bloomberg cam­paign's relentless pursuit of bizarre endorsements, from big names who don't really matter to tiny groups that might for a handful of constituents. 
No demographic is too small. 
Latina lawyers? Bloomberg's got Carmen Pacheco, founder of the first Hispanic female-owned law firm in New York City. 
He has backing from a Dominican soccer club, the president of an African cab drivers group, the Korean Nail Salon Association and a biweek­ly newspaper serving Albanian­Americans with circulation in 46 states. 
Also cheering on his bid for a third term -the founder of a nonprofit whose sole purpose is to raise money for a school in Callancas, Peru, along with Juan Rojas Campos, founder of a Mexican restaurant with two locations in Manhattan and one in New Jersey. 
People who can't even vote here -like Damon -are also weighing in, including the mayor of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and the governor of Puerto Rico. 
Dozens of Bloomberg's back­ers this year had never made a political endorsement before they were approached by the mayor's operation. 
The multimillion-dollar cam­paign has churned out hun­dreds of endorsement press releases, all listed prominently on the Bloomberg campaign Web site. Many supporters appeared with Bloomberg in person or taped videos for use online. 
It may seem like a way to fill time during what was a sleepy summer campaign season, but Bloomberg campaign officials say it is a deliberate strategy that was developed early and proceeds on a specific schedule. 
A new swath of untapped vot­ers is identified -often in com­munities traditionally over­looked by city mayoral cam­paigns, like Russian or Korean -then an endorsement comes from a group meaning some­thing to them, in a way that showcases the mayor. 
For example, an endorsement from the president of the Korean Produce Association means delis and groceries all over the city get Bloomberg signs along with their daily deliveries of fruit and vegeta­bles. 
Campaign manager Bradley Tusk says the attention to niche endorsements is among the most important parts of the Bloomberg strategy. 
Search for insane killer escapee begins in Wash. 
Associated Press 
SPOKANE, Wash. -A helicop­ter clattered over transient camps and rail yards in the expanding search for an insane killer as investigators tried to determine whether he planned his getaway from a field trip organized by a mental hospital. 
Phillip Arnold Paul left little clothing in his room at Eastern State Hospital and carried a back­pack and $50 from a Social Security check when he vanished Thursday at the Spokane County International Fair, sheriffs Sgt. Dave Reagan said. 
The field trip to the fair, which included 30 other patients, is an annual event that Paul easily could have anticipated, Reagan told The Spokesman-Review newspaper. 
Because of the extra clothing Paul had, it's reasonable to assume he has changed his appearance, Reagan said. 
Paul, 47, was committed after he was diagnosed as schizo­phrenic and acquitted by reason of insanity in the slaying of an elderly woman in Sunnyside, Wash., in 1987. He soaked her body in gasoline to throw off search dogs. 
Federal, state and local law enforcement agents were engaged in the search Sunday as officials ruled out one potential hiding place after another. 
Members of an inmate recovery team from the state Department of Corrections and some deputies were sent home, Reagan said late Saturday. 
"We're running out of places to look for him locally," Reagan said. "My sense is we'll find him some­where outside Spokane County." 
Authorities said earlier that Paul likely was headed for his family home in Sunnyside, about 180 road miles south-southwest of Spokane. 
In 1991 he walked away from custody during a day trip in near­by Medical Lake, where Eastern State is located, and was captured about 15 miles away. He subse­quently attacked a sheriff's deputy in the jail booking area, knocking him unconscious and separating his shoulder, and was convicted of first-degree escape and second-degree assault. 
Reagan said investigators have learned that Paul had several contacts in the area after living outside the hospital complex peri­odically, including stays at The Carlyle Care Center in downtown Spokane. 
He also posted words and nine songs, including one entitled "Rock N Roll in the Mental Institution" by Philly Willy and the Hillbillies on his page on the online social networking Web site MySpace. There was no indiea­tion on the Web site of when or where the songs were recorded. 
Obama to have high stakes week 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The unre­lenting global troubles con­fronting Barack Obama are about to converge on him all at once, providing a stern test of leadership for a first-year pres­ident who has pledged to "change the world." 
In a span of four days, Obama will plunge into the pol­itics of the United Nations and host a summit in Pittsburgh on . the world's wobbling economy. The international stage is com­ing to him, and no one standing on it with him will have higher stakes. 
Obama is tinder pressure to push along stalled Mideast peace, prove the United States is serious about climate change and rally allies against the nuclear threats of Iran and North Korea. Restless leaders in Europe and elsewhere are pressing Obama to reform risky 
U.S. financial behavior and get Congress on board. 
He also bears the load of two inherited wars that now bear his imprint -the one he's winding down in Iraq and the one that's widening in Afghanistan. Eight years after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, Obama must hold together international will as he tries to keep Afghanistan from becom­ing an al-Qaida launching pad again. 
The talks have the potential to be galvanizing moments ur opportunities lost. 
"Leadership is not just telling people what you want, as the Bush administration discov­ered. Leadership is getting peo­ple to do what you need them to do," said Jon Alterman, a senior fellow in Middle East policy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former State Department official in President George W. Bush's first term. 
Obama will have his chances. 

His first speech to the 192­member General Assembly will outline his view of leadership, emphasizing a new brand of cooperation as if to underline he is not Bush. As U.N. ambas­sador Susan Rice described the message: "Everybody has a responsibility. The U.S. is lead­ing anew. And we are looking to others to join." 
Obama will be the first U.S. president to be chairman of the Security Council, whose rotat­ing presidency happens to be in 

U.S. hands this month during the annual meeting of the General Assembly. He expects to emerge from that special summit on arms control with a resolution that advances his goals of a nuclear-weapons free world. 
The measure will try to put heat on Iran and North Korea without singling out any coun­try. 
With his domestic agenda consumed by health care, Obama is under pressure from world leaders to put more mus­cle into fighting climate change. lie will seek to do just that this week, too, with a speech at a U.N. climate con­ference. 
Time is short, though, for the 
U.S. to have leverage. An inter­national conference is set for December in Denmark to a new global climate pact. Although the House has passed a bill to limit greenhouse gases, Senate action may fade until next year. 
Perhaps as important as the speeches will be the conversa­tions the world never sees. 
Obama, who arrives in New York City on Monday for the annual U.N. gathering, will meet privately with the leaders of Russia, China and Japan. Less formal sessions will take place all week. 
The showcase for the new 
U.S. president is getting famil­iar. 
In just his first year, Obama has made it through summits with heads of both the world's 20 top economies and eight major industrial powers, as well as Western Hemisphere heads, Russian leaders and NATO. The president hasn't been shy about calling for the 
U.N. to take on "big, tough" problems more effectively. 
When the focus shifts to Pittsburgh, Obama will run the Group of 20 summit of the rich ­and developing countries that represent 80 percent of world economic output. Although their united, expensive efforts earlier this year helped halt the economic slowdown, there is enormous work left and wide divisions about how to proceed. 
"All of us need to act more responsibly on behalf of a bet­ter economic future," Obama said in a Saturday radio and Internet address that looked ahead to the G-20 summit and warned of complacency. 

European leaders are frus­trated about the lack of U.S. action on financial regulation and restricting how bank exec­utives get paid: Just ahead of Obama's travels, details emerged of a Federal Reserve plan that would for the first time police how banks pay executives to minimize reckless investment gambles. 
Obama himself is pushing Congress to get moving -he just went to Wall Street to say as much. But that effort is unlikely to satisfy his fellow leaders. 
new club proposal 11 • been updatedt Ther Pocess ttmeline has year when students e are now two times per For the 2009-2~6 propo~ a new club. 
th academ1c year. 
e proposal periods are: , 
~:~~~~e~ ~ ~ ·bOctober 6, 200g 
e ruary 23,2010 
Notre Dame stude ts . . new club should ref~r t~n!~;ested in starting a information on the SAnOew c/u~ proposal
webs1te: 

http://sao.nd.edu 
Questions?
Please contact Ma K · Programs Coordin try ate Havlik,Student a or, at mhavlik@nd edu or caii631-730B. · • 
-----·-----------------------~------------­
Monday, September 21, 2009 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 

Notre Dame Apartments 

2Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Only Three Blocks from Campus 
$300 Signing Bonus for 2010 -201 7 
Lease must be signed before October 10,2009 
Leases start at only $350 per month, per student/ 
View the floorplan at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574)234-2436 
Associated Press 
HANOI, -Multinational com­panies in Vietnam sell baby for­mula so aggressively that they routinely stretch and sometimes break laws designed to promote breastfeeding, an AP investiga­tion has found. 
International guidelines and Vietnamese law recognize breast milk as superior to for­mula for an infant's health. Yet dozens of interviews with moth­ers, doctors, health officials and shopkeepers suggest that for­mula companies pay doctors to peddle their products, promote it for infants under age one and approach mothers and health care workers at health facilities -all of which are against the law. 
The number of Vietnamese mothers who exclusively breast­feed in the first six months ­the most crucial period ­stands at just 17 percent, less than half what it was a decade ago, according to UNICEF. Meanwhile, formula sales in Vietnam jumped 39 percent in 2008, according to a study by Nielsen, a market research firm. Another survey found that the industry spent more than $10 million on advertising last year, placing it among Vietnam's top five advertisers. 
The companies say they follow the law and attribute increased sales to other factors, chiefly more working women with money to spend and less time to breast-feed. Health experts agree that these factors have played a role, but also point to relentless marketing by formula companies. 
The aggressive marketing of formula is common across the 
Information Sessions on Study Abroad Programs in Japan: Nagoya & Tokyo 
Tuesday, September 22, 5:30 p.m. 117 Hayes-Healy Or Wednesday, October 7, 7:00p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 For Academic Year 2010-2011, Fall 2010 or Spring 2011 

VIETNAM 
Co111panies break baby formula lavvs 
region, from China to Indonesia to the Philippines, according to the International Code Documentation Center, a Malaysia-based nonprofit that seeks to eliminate the irrespon­sible marketing of baby foods. While companies often violate the voluntary international milk code, the center says, they are usually careful to follow the let­ter of individual country laws. 
When the Philippine govern­ment tried to tighten its adver­tising laws for milk products two years ago, the companies took it to court. 
"The health workers there were part of the marketing arm for those products," said Jean­Marc Olive, Vietnam represen­tative for the World Health Organization, who used to work in the Philippines. 
Vietnam's struggle shows how difficult it is for developing countries to take on internation­al companies with hefty adver­tising budgets and aggressive sales and legal teams. 
"The companies have millions of dollars and dozens of lawyers, but the Vietnamese government has a tiny budget and just two people promoting breast-feeding," said Annelies Allain of the International Code Documentation Center. 
In early August, during World Breastfeeding Week, the Vietnamese government adopt­ed an ambitious target: a 50 percent exclusive breast-feeding rate by 2015. Health Ministry officials also announced they had uncovered dozens of viola­tions of formula labeling rules. 
But only one fine was levied -for less than $200. 
Among the most serious viola­tions that sources described separately to the AP were com­missions paid to doctors to sell formula. 
Workers at a women's health clinic in Dong Nai province had an exclusive deal with Dutch Lady, a brand of Friesland Foods, based in Meppel, the Netherlands, said Dr. Vo Thi Kim Loan, the clinic's former vice director. 
"We got a small commission for each can," she said. 
Jan Bles, the Vietnam director for Dutch Lady, denied the alle­gation. 
"We do not compensate doc-. tors, clinics, hospital or their staff for selling or promoting our products," he said, although he acknowledged providing fur­niture for the clinic, whose waiting room is adorned with a large Dutch Lady logo. 
Tran Thi Hanh, the clinic director, said the clinic signed a contract to promote a Dutch Lady powdered milk product for pregnant and nursing mothers, but didn't sell products for babies or receive commissions by the can. 
The clinic also printed a Dutch Lady logo on registration forms for women who came for ultra­sounds or prenatal check-ups, she said. In return, Hanh said, Dutch Lady provided lunch for about 50 staffers from smaller clinics around the province who came to the bigger clinic for training every three months. 
Several other big formula companies also tried to land a deal with the clinic, said Loan, the former vice director. Another clinic employee, who declined to give her name because she still works at the clinic, confirmed Loan's account. 
The staff didn't promote for­mula for babies under six months, Loan said, but they fre­quently pushed it for babies between six and 12 months. Vietnam's law prohibits adver­tising formula products for chil­dren under age one-a weak­ened version of an earlier law that set the age limit at 2. 
Several Hanoi shopkeepers also said that formula compa­nies pay doctors commissions for promoting sales. 
It is illegal to sell infant for­mula inside Vietnamese hospi­tals, except in pharmacies, but the alley just outside Hanoi's main maternity hospital is lined with shops prominently display­ing American and European brands. 
"Most customers are sent by their doctors right after they give birth," said Ngo Thanh, 27, who has worked next to the main maternity hospital for five years. She and other shopkeep­ers said their customers bring labels or plastic caps from for­mula tins back to their doctors for documenting sales. 
Vietnam's low-paid doctors are easy targets for formula companies, which offer them "formidable benefits," said Dr. To Minh Huong, deputy director of Hanoi's main maternity hos­pitaL Last year, she said, com­pany representatives came to the hospital and posed as aca­demic researchers, looking for patient information. 
"When we asked for their IDs, they fled," she said. Formula companies denied paying commissions. 
"Our employees are routinely trained and held to high stan­dards of compliance," said Gail Wood, a spokeswoman for Mead Johnson Nutrition, an American ftrm based in Glenview, IlL 
Vietnamese law also prohibits formula salesmen from approaching health workers or mothers at health care facilities. Wood said staff abide by the law and the international code. 
But Nguyen Thi Minh, 29, a Hanoi paralegal, said she was approached by a Mead Johnson salesman at a Hanoi maternity clinic shortly before giving birth. 
"I chose Mead Johnson's EnfaGrow because the adver­tisements said it boosts your child's IQ and makes them taller," Minh said. 
Other new mothers were called by phone instead. A dozen told the AP they had been bombarded by calls from sales­men. Minh said she received calls from Abbott and Mead Johnson when her baby was 3 months old. Another mother, Nguyen Lan Huong, said she received four calls from Abbott. 
"They must get mothers' names from the hospitals," she said. "They knew my name, my baby's name and his birthday." 
Tracey Noe, a spokeswoman for Abbott of Abbott Park, Illinois, said the company only calls women who sign up for promotions, but the women interviewed by the AP said they had not requested information. 
"We provide extensive train­ing to our employees and con­duct routine audits to ensure compliance," Noe said. 
As Vietnam has embraced market reforms and opened up to outside investment, Western products, including baby formu­la, have gained cachet. More mothers can afford formula, said Bles of Dutch Lady, whose Vietnam profits surged by 30 percent last year. 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, September 21, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

Rethinking the war in Afghanistan 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Soll[h Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CIDEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR; Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR; Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: A.Qdrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersporrs@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
achamO 1 @saimmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63!-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhc University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration of eirher institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofrhe aurhors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qymtiom regarding ObserverpoliCies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is publisbrd Monday through Friday except during cnm and wcadon paiods. A subscription ro The Obkrver is $120 for one ...cademic }'t"ilt; $65 fur one semester. 
The Obsuva-is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H.tl Send address-conccrions w: Notte D.me. IN 46556-0779 ThoOh=v" Periodical po$fagt p.ticl at Noue Dame P.:O.Box779 and addiriorW mailing offtceS.. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nottt n ..... JN 46556-0779 
Tite Observer is a member t1f the Assoclatd Prrss..All n:pmduction rights .are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Joseph McMahon Sam Werner Amanda Gray Meaghan Veselik Carly Landon Molly Sammon Graphics Scene Mary Cecilia Adrianna Pratt Mitsch Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 
Testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee last week, Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, argued that the United States' war in Afghanistan will require "more forces and, with­Ben Linskey out question, more time and College more commitment Libertarians to the protection of the Afghan · people and to the development of good governance." President Barack Obama, who increased troop levels in Afghanistan by 21,000 earlier this year, seems poised to accept Mullen's recommendation and commit yet . more U.S. forces to the region in the near future. Thus, the U.S. finds itself on the verge of a major escalation in Afghanistan, and a conflict that large­ly took a backseat to the Iraq War over the past 1'1~w years may soon become the focal point of Ameriea's foreign policy. Such a major shift in strategy calls for a serious exam ina­tion of the state of the war in Afghanistan. 
The U.S. invaded Afghanistan in 2001 with a clear and specific mis­sion. Our nation's armed forces sought to dismantle the AI Qaeda ter­rorist organization that attacked our country and the Taliban government that supported it. That mission is complete, insofar as it concerns the state of Afghanistan. The Taliban is no longer in power and the locus of AI Qaeda activity has shifted away from the region. 
Today, U.S. troops remaining in Afghanistan are faced with an uncer­tain task. There is no clear enemy to destroy or threat to defend against. Rather, our military is expected to somehow aid in the reconstruction of Afghanistan into a modern, Western-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
Who will be the second leading receiver for the Irish now that Floyd is out for the season? 
Kyle Rudolph Robby Parris Duval Kamara Jimmy Clausen 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 

style democracy, a goal whose realiza­tion is nowhere in sight. Almost imperceptibly, the U.S. mission in Afghanistan has shifted from counter­terrorism to nation-building. 
America's disastrous attempt to remake Iraq in its own image has proven tho folly of attempting to imposn Western values on unwilling subjects through military force. Yet we are poised to plunge headlong into a nearly identical quagmire. Over 800 Americans have already perished in Afghanistan and a troop increase will surely bring many more casualties. It is unclear what we hope to gain from this horriflc cost-skirmishing with insurgents in Afghan hamlets does nothing to protect the lives of Amnrieans. Worse yet, there is no end in sight. President Obama and his fel­low hawks in Congress and the mili­tary arn anxious to increase America's commitment of troops and resources in Afghanistan, but they havn made no serious attempt to delinnate the ultimate objectives of the war or to adumbrate an eventual exit stratngy. 
The elosest thing to a cohnrent goal outlined by advocates of the war in Afghanistan seems to be the establish­ment of a stable government that can exercise control over the entire nation. By any reasonable measure, we have made little progress toward this aim despite years of U.S. military presence. The United States' efforts to graft Western liberal institutions onto Afghan society have predictably back­llred and corruption and dissension have nourished. 
The results of the nation's recent presidential elections provide a dis­couraging picture of the state of Afghan politics. Supporters of incum­bent Hamid Karzai stand accused of widespread voting fraud; the European Union announced last week that as many as one third of the votes he received may have been fraudu­lent. Meanwhile, the Afghan govern­ment is far from a beacon of freedom in the Middle East. Earlier this year, the state instituted the Shiite Personal Status Law, which, among other things, allows a man to starve his wife if she refuses to have sex with him. Faced with such sobering facts, it is impossible not to wonder for what exactly we are llghting. 
The presence of United States troops in Afghanistan does nothing to defend our nation and its people. Sending more forces will only serve to antago­nize the Afghan populace and prolong the aimless conflict in which wn have been engaged for far too long. No amount of troops can create a stabln and legitimate democratic govern­ment and mold Afghanistan into a modern libPral state. The U.S. army exists to defend our freedom, not to transform soci11ties. As the situation now stands, the war in Afghanistan has no dear resolution in sight and an increase in troop levels will only serve to delay our exit from the region. 
The costs of the war in Afghanistan cannot be ignored. Men and women are dying and we have a moral responsibility to end this horrific con­11ict rather than to senselessly prolong it. The U.S. mission in Afghanistan is complete. It's time for President Obama and Congress to begin with­drawing American troops from Afghanistan and to refocus our nation's foreign policy on protecting America. 
Ben Linskey is a junior majoring in political science and philosophy. He can be contacted at blinskey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Be not affronted at a joke. If one throw salt at thee, thou wilt receive no harm, unless thou art raw." 
Junius 18th century writer 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

I •JJ.lJ 
.,._ .·. . '----~ ~.,_......_..__.......,=======,.=::=i=~__!_~~-------~------...J 
--------~~--~----------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, September 21, 2009 page 11 
Respect the tantrum 
To put it politely, I was not what you would call an agreeable child. If I hap­pened to dislike something, you could be sure that a temper tantrum was soon to follow. Once, when my parents bought pancakes for every­
James Napier

one but me, I ven­omously demanded 
Demarcating

of them "Why you no 
Democracy

buy me pancakes!" Such was the elo­quence of a four-year-old. Until recently, I had been rather embarrassed by my childhood antics. However, recent events have proven that my behavior may not have been so misplaced after all. Politicians seem to be betting that a well placed tantrum can earn them more than a few delicious pancake morsels. 
A recent example of this amazing new political stratagem occurred just days before the anniversary of 9/11 when Rep. Joe Wilson, R-South Carolina, yelled "You lie" in the middle of President Barack Obama's address to Congress. I cannot agree more with Mr. Wilson's sentiment or behavior. Just because Mr. Obama is the president does not mean he should be able to give a speech in the United States Congress without being harassed. Unfortunately, Mr. Wilson made a terrible blunder afterwards when he apologized for his remarks. This nation is in a fight for its soul-a fight it must not lose. Occasionally, these dark times necessitate silencing political opponents. Even ifthat opponent is the president himself. After all, haven't you heard how un-American so many Americans have become? 
Unfortunately, Democrats have responded extremely well to Mr. Wilson's heroic stance. Understanding the power of well-placed indignation, Democrats recently voted to censure Mr. Wilson. It has even been suggested by some in the party that Wilson's comments were racially motivated. Of course they were ­any opposition to a black president must be racially motivated, especially if the racist in question is from the South. I may not agree with Democrats concerning several major issues but even I can admit when they have made a significant accomplishment. Censuring the racist Mr. Wilson for his refusal to apologize in front of Congress was the only moral solution -even ifMr. Wilson had personally called the White House to apologize. We can all learn from the moral lesson the Democrats are trying to teach. 
Of course, this whole incident was only a side show to the general debate over healthcare reform currently tearing apart the nation. Thankfully, both sides have shown just as much class in the general debate of the issue as they did in the "Wilson Affair." Personally, I am very torn on the issue of health care reform because both sides make such fantastic arguments. Censuring and personal attacks are only the tip of the arsenal wielded by America's politicians and pun­dits. On the one hand, Democrats have made it quite clear that their plan will bring about change while the Republicans only want more of the same. Republicans, on the other hand, argue an increase in government-provided healthcare will lead to death panels and socialism. These are well versed arguments by any measure. 
As successful as these fits of rage and indignation have been, I fear it has not been enough. I still occasionally come across reasoned, well-balanced argu­ments. It is not that I am against logic or facts; far from it. Rather, I have logically concluded that the only rational argu­ment is one which is irrational. Thus, the tantrum is the perfect political weapon. It is punchy, succinct and memorable. With this enlightened reasoning, I would sug­gest that the only problem is that the tantrums have not gone far enough. 
As one who prides himself in a severe lack of maturity, I can offer some excel­lent insight which may benefit American politics. Mere sound bites of Nazi-calling and political maneuvering may not always obtain the desired goals. When words fail, kick, scream and cry. In short, act like someone who did not get his fair share of some delicious pancakes. I can say from personal experience: temper tantrums always work. Has anyone ever refused the desires of a tempestuous four­year-old? 
James Napier is a junior history major. He can be contacted atjnapier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Bless 111e, Father, for I have questioned 
I have never responded to a Viewpoint article before. I generally prefer to sit back and enjoy the repartee between the indignant, the well-meaning and the sar­castic. However, something about Chris Damian's "The Sexist Church" (Sept. 18) really got to me. It could have been the over-simplified and inherently flawed style of reasoning, the patronizing chas­tisement of more than 60 percent of obviously misguided U.S. Catholics who are open to the ordination of women or it might have been the enlightened tidbit of advice about staying in our place. 
First of all, a two-minute conversation is more than sufficient to educate a curi­ous child on why men cannot have chi!­
dren -they lack the plumbing. However, I would love to know which pipes and valves women lack that keeps them from leading a congregation. Keeping in mind the logical fallacy of using precedents to counter change, let us review some of the perils of accepting our respective places in the cosmos: slavery, civil rights, women's rights, oppressive regimes, genocides ... the list continues. If anyone in these situations had "remembered their place," unjust and atrocious acts would have contin­ued. Thank God we do not follow this practice. A line from Gaudium et Spes. states: "All the faithful, both clerical and lay, should be accorded a lawful free­dom of inquiry, freedom of thought and freedom of expression." Thinking that something is unable to be improved through decisive action based on intel­lectual questioning is not only naive, but downright dangerous. "Sure, Mrs. Parks, you can ask why you must give up your seat, just as long as you move any­way ... " 
Would it shake your faith to the core if Mother Theresa had been allowed to consecrate the Body of Christ? Would the Church collapse if a woman absolved you of your sins? Can you honestly look at some of your wonderfully spiritual female classmates and say that they would not make great priests? God help us if we one day have to call some priests "Mother." 
Our own University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh once said "I have no problem with females or mar­ried people as priests, but I realize that the majority of the leadership in the Church would. But what's important is that people get the sacraments." If you would like to remind him of his place, he takes student appointments in the library. 
Malcolm Phelan sophomore Keough Hall Sept. 20 

Support financial aid reform. 
To Whom It May Concern: 

I discovered with great disappointment that my alma mater is, according to C-Span, "leading" the opposition in the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (HR 3221) currently being debated in Congress. The legislation simplifies the federally guaran­teed loan system which would help save the federal government an estimated $87 billion over 10 years. The $87 billion saved would then be used to increase aid to low-income students, improve community colleges and raise standards for early childhood education. Not surprisingly, the private lending industry that has enjoyed the huge profits and borne no risk (due to the federal government's guarantee of all loans) in this unfair and often corrupt system are wholly-opposed to the bill. 
The University's opposition to this long-overdue reform is especially troubling given the recent scandal involving University Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves taking almost $60,000 in what were, at best, inappropriate payments from the stu­dent lending industry which seeks to do business with Notre Dame. 
The University should reverse course and join other leading Indiana institutions of higher education, including Indiana University, who are supporting this legislation. Notre Dame knows better and Notre Dame should do better. 
Sincerely, 

Tim Barnes alumnus class_of 1999 Sept. 17 


Sexis111 in Church 111erits discussion 
In response to Christopher Damian's letter entitled "The sexist Church" (Sept. 18): The idea that refusing to permit the ordination of women is akin to men's inability to have babies is flawed. Men's inability to have babies is a biological limita­tion, while the Church's refusal to allow women into the priesthood is a limitation imposed upon women by the institution of the Church. Men cannot have babies because they do not have what is required to have a baby: for example, a uterus. Women, however, are not permitted to become priests even when they pos­sess what is necessary to be effective priests: exemplary leadership skills, an enduring faith and understanding of Christ's teachings and a desire to serve others. The two cases are com­pletely different and comparing them trivializes the importance of the issue. 
Additionally, Damian's use of quotes around the word "calling," i.e. "Women who experience a 'calling' to the priesthood," implies that these women are misguided in their inter­pretations of God's voice in their lives. If we refuse to consider these women's desires to become leaders in the Church as earnest and heartfelt -ifwe dismiss their claims that they feel called by God to serve in that manner as impossibilities -then we are refusing to engage in a discussion that recognizes the importance of women's voices in the Church. 
We do not have to be judges of God's Church, but as members of it, we should engage in meaningful dis­cussion about how we can grow in our attempts to serve according to the mission of the Church. In writing that by "challenging authority and engaging in dissension ... we forget our place in the cosmos," Damian seems to be saying that women have forgotten their place and he has taken it upon himself to remind them where they belong. 
The idea of women becoming priests will become even more rele­vant as the number of men entering the priesthood continues to lag behind the number of priests reach­ing retirement age. As long as women are kept out of the priesthood, the Church is advocating a very real power differential between men and women. This is an issue that we must acknowledge and discuss with careful thought and respect for all who feel passionately about it. 
Kerry Reardon junior Walsh Hall Sept. 18 
-~­



ms were not beauty of hand painted heartstrings. Some like the feature length glass slides. What was were about little lost movies that we have even more remarkable children without any today. Instead, shorts of was that many or these mother. Others were three-five minutes, slides were discarded about two lovers being would constitute about after 1913, so to still be parted. Still others had half of a 20 minute began to trav­able to view some erotic undertones entertainment program. el through them is a (or overtones). 
Rick Altman 

What would the other time. Altman rare treat. In addition to the half consist of? also reminded began his Hick Altman entertainment of the Illustrated songs. While the audience presentation by also had the slides, the audience also a technician had to that the nick­technical got an education.
asking the 

change the film reels, elodeon was a competency Professor Altman the projector would dis­hot spot for audience to to play the discuss the historical play hand painted glass audience par­check all piano and aspects of how these slides onscreen. These ticipation. sing the illustrated songs w
preconceived

slides all told a story Such partici­songs. While from being a huge
notions offilm

that was connected pation was he did not sation to virtually non through a song. A not limited to at the door have the existent. By the end o pianist in the theater singing along vocals of an the performance th would play this song with the opera singer, audience had laugh while images were pro­songs, but also making he was comical by sung along, made jected onscreen. Each jokes or heckling when incorporating accents jokes, and even go slide corresponded to the occasion called for and innuendos when little history Jesson. each line of the song, it, or even when it did necessary. in all, a pretty goo and culminated with a not. As for content, the deal. lyrics slide so the audi­The images appeared illustrated songs both ence could sing along. onscreen and audiences tickled your funny bone 
Rick Altman began his were amazed by the and tugged on your 
shampoo and several Pez  the tale of an  well made flashback. In the early  promised  prequel;  "Bubba  
Scene Writer  dispensers that looked  aging rock star, long  70's, fed up with the drugs, peo­ Nosteratu: Curse of the She­ 
almost, but not quite  removed from the  ple, and excess surrounding him,  Vampires." Enough interest was  
Every August in the Midwest,  like  our  founding  fame of his for­ Elvis traded lives with Sebastian  generated to begin some serious  
there are roughly two weeks  fathers, was a VHS  mer  life.  To  Haff,  an  impersonator, who  discussion. For the past 2 years,  
when the weather is unbearable.  tape  that  would  make this story  ended up dying on the toilet in  rumors have passed around the  
The thick, muggy air pushes  change  the  way  I  possible, Elvis  '77. The real Elvis ends up shar­ Internet regarding the film's plot,  
down on those unlucky enough  looked at cinema for­ must  still  be  ing a nursing home with an also  stars and shooting schedule. It  
to be outside, causing discomfort,  ever: "Bubba Ho-Tep."  alive. The film  non-dead JFK, played by Ozzie  seems most likely the movie will  
confusion and embarrassing pit stains. Every effort is made to  "Bubba Ho-Tep" is a Bruce Campbell movie.  explains with a surpris­ Davis, who had been dyed black after the failed attempt on his life  be about Elvis fighting vampires in a 1970 New Orleans. Paul  
stay indoors, protected by the  (For those of you unfamil­ ing I y  so  LBJ  could go  ahead and  Giamatti and Ron Pearlman have  
benevolent air conditioning.  iar with Campbell's work, go  assume the presidency. The two  publically stated they would  
Everyone here should be familiar  see "Evil Dead 2" and "Arm  thought-to-be-dead protagonists  appear in the film  as Colonel  
with this unfortunate fortnight as it normally overlaps Frosh-0 weekend, adding stickiness  of Darkness." Right Now. I'll wait.) For this film, Campbell took on his most challeng­ proceed to fight a Western clad mummy. Despite an outlandish plot and  Tom Parker and Elvis respective­ly. Campbell dropped out due to "creative differences". It may  
where there should only be awk­wardness.  ing and unforgiving role. Each day, he  shoestring budget, the movie harnessed an extremely well  begin shooting as early as 2010 but could be delayed indefinitely.  
Years before my own Frosh-0,  would sit through three  written script and remarkable  This article is a plea for help.  
back in the summer of 2006, I  hours  of  makeup  in  performances to garner enough  Bubba Nosteratu would make  
was seeking refuge from the  order to transform into a  critieal praise for a small theatri­ pop culture a little bit better and  
sweltering heat. Finally, I found shelter. However, as it turns out,  65 year-old, bed-ridden, curmudgeonly Elvis.  cal release. VIIS and DVD sales improved the film's moderate  a whole lot stranger. Do anything you can to help; buy a copy of  
there is a limit on the amount of  Made on a budget  success even further, while creat­ "Bubba Ilo-Tep" on DVD, com­ 
time one can spend in a dollar  of $1 million dol­ ing  a  small, loyal  audience  ment on Internet forums, think  
store before being asked to leave.  lars  (iicensin  who've embraced it as a cult  about it twice a day. Every little  
Not willing to make myself a sac­ one  of  Elvi  classie.  piece helps. Paul Giamatti is  
rifice to the heat, I made an  songs  wou  It was the same audience, who,  counting on you.  
earnest attempt to spend the last  have used  upon watching the final credits,  
bill in my wallet. Sandwiched  the  budget)  missed the director's joke and  Contact Nick Anderson at  
between a bottle of Star Wars  "Bubba Ho-Tep  started a clamor calling for the  nanders5@nd.edu  
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic  


-~--~-­




NSIDER 
O
THE 

Monday, September 21, 2009 BSERVER Notre Dame 33, Michigan State 30 
Squeaking by Sparty 
Irish hold off late Michigan State drive for 33-30 win 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Just one week after giving up the go-ahead score in the final minute against Michigan, the Irish defense once again found themselves with their backs against the wall, needing a late fourth-quarter stop to protect a three-point lead. This time, they got it. 
Senior safety Kyle McCarthy's interception at the four-yard line with 1:10 remaining pre­served a 33-30 Notre Dame victory over Michigan State on Saturday, breaking the Irish's six-game home losing streak against the Spartans. 
"I think this is a huge step for our guys. Not necessarily for the program, but for the guys in the locker room," said McCarthy. "We deserve this win." 
Just a play before the inter­ception, Notre Dame (2-1) dodged a bullet after Michigan State running back Larry Caper, who had beaten the entire Irish secondary, found himself wide-open in the cor­ner of the end zone, but was unable to come down with a reception from Spartan quar­terback Kirk Cousins. 
"After last week, how bad everybody felt in a very similar situation in the ending of the game, to make a play to change the outcome in favor of us, I'm really, really happy for those kids in there," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "It's and he's bringing other people end Kyle Rudolph's 52-yard receiver, Blair White. what would prove to be one of nice to see how genuinely along with him." grab. Junior running back After a Notre Dame field the biggest plays of the game. excited they are. They feel Clausen went down early in Armando Allen capped off the goal, the Spartans grabbed Sophomore defensive tackle great." the second quarter with a toe drive from the Wildcat forma­their first lead of the game, 17-Ethan Johnson rose up and got 
While the Notre Dame injury, but came back in on the tion with a 13-yard run for the 16, just a minute before half­just enough of the extra-point defense came up with the big next series after missing just score. Allen led all rushers time when freshman running attempt to send it wide. play at the end, it was the Irish one play. with 120 yards on the ground, back Larry Caper punched it in "Great play by Notre Dame offense that stole the spotlight Sophomore wide receiver his second straight game with from the one. blocking the extra point," for much of the game. Michael Floyd was dominant in over 100 yards. The Irish came out with a Spartan coach Mark Dantonio 
Junior quarterback Jimmy the first half before suffering After a Michigan State field 10-0 run early in the third said of the play. "It's probably Clausen was again superb, an injury of his own. Floyd has goal, Clausen drove the Irish quarter when Clausen led two the play of the game when you completing 22 of 31 passes for two receptions for 38 yards right down the field again for scoring drives on the first two really look at it. If everything 300 yards and two touch­and an early score before leav­another touchdown, this time possessions. Allen took the else unfolds as is, we're kick­downs. For the second straight ing the game with a shoulder hitting Floyd from 22 yards out snap from the Wildcat forma­ing a field goal to win it." game, Clausen led the Irish injury in the second quarter on in the corner of the end zone. tion and threw a five-yard pass After last week's crushing down the field late in the what seemed to be a Notre Clausen was nine of nine in the to senior Robby Parris for the defeat and the close losses that fourth quarter for a go-ahead Dame touchdown. Clausen first quarter for 128 yards and first points of the second half. have plagued the Irish over the touchdown. He found Golden threw a short fade to Floyd in a touchdown in the first quar­A 46-yard field goal from past two seasons, Weis was Tate on a 33-yard pass with the end zone that was ruled ter, and completed his first ten freshman Nick Tausch encouraged by the change in 
5:18 remaining to give Notre incomplete on the field and passes before a drop by tight increased the Irish's lead to mentality he's seeing from his Dame the three-point lead. upheld by a review despite end Mike Ragone. 26-17. team. Clausen has thrown for at least appearing to have possession The second quarter was a "Really the message [at half­"In the past, what might have 300 yards and two scores in in bounds. Floyd did not return completely different story. The time] was very clearly that we happened is when we went each of the first three games. to the game following the Spartans (1-2) got their offense needed to come out and score down in the second half, it 
"[Clausen was] good enough injury. rolling thanks to a number of on our first possession, which might have been deflating," he to where I let him sing the In the first quarter, the game drive-saving penalties commit­we did," Weis said. "By scoring said. "But not this team. This fight song today," Weis said. looked to be completely con­ted by the Irish. in the first possession we really team just expects they're going "He has really evolved, not just trolled by the Irish. After a Two personal fouls led to flipped the momentum back in to come back and make a play as a good football player, but defensive stop on the first Michigan State's first touch­our favor." and win." as a leader of the team. You Spartan series, Clausen engi­down, a 30-yard pass from On Michigan State's next just watch him and he has that neered a magnificent drive wide receiver Keshawn Brown drive, the Irish special teams Contact Alex Barker at confidence in his own ability that featured sophomore tight on a reverse to another wide unit stepped up to provide abarker1 @nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Jimmy Clausen Notre Dame quarterback  5 Consecutive games (including  McCarthy's game clinching interception  "He's really evolvedfrom notjust a good football player to a leader ofthe team."  
Despite being limited by an early injury,  USC and the Hawaii Bowl) with  With the Spartans driving and I:IO  
Clausen led the Irish back ahead with  an interception for senior  remaining the senior captain  Charlie Weis  
300 yards and two touchdowns  captain Kyle McCarthy  preserved the Notre Dame lead  Irish coach on Clausen  

---------1 

~p~e2 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 21, 2009 
i ================================================================================================================================ 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
A A 
A­8­C­

c 
C­8 8­

report card 
with another impressive offen­sive performance. The defense 
2.83 
struggled for the second straight game and must improve. 

adding up the numbers 
Consecutive 300-yard passing games for 
4 

Jimmy Clausen, the first Notre Dame quar­terback to accomplish that feat. 
12 
Career touchdown receptions by Michael Floyd in 12 career games, tied with Tim Brown and Bobby Brown for ninth place in school history. 
Consecutive passes completed by Clausen to begin the game, helping the Irish get out 
10

to an early 13-3 lead. 
7 6 Consecutive extra-point attempts converted by Michigan State kicker Brett Swenson before Ethan Johnson blocked his attempt a Spartan third quarter touchdown. 
Michigan State yards rushing in the second 2 9 
half on nine carries, an average of just 3.2 yards per carry. 
7 
Drives of 75 yards or longer for the Notre Dame offense through three games this season. The 
first Notre Dame drive took just four plays to go 84 yards. 
Michigan's time of possession in the 1o·. 2o 
third quarter. The Irish entered the quar­ter up 20-17, and ended ittrailing 24-20. 
354 
Yards passing by the Spartans against the Notre Dame secondary, including a 30-yard pass from wide receiver Keshawn Martin. 
quarterbacks: Jimmy Oausen started the game on fire and played well after injur­ing his foot. Oausen looks to have matured into the team's leader and a Heisman candidate. 
running backs: Armando Allen tallied his second straight 100-yard game and had a touchdown pass out of the Wildcat for­mation. Jonas Gray showed flashes of his potential but is still inconsistent. 
receivers: Michael Floyd was brilliant again before his injury, and Golden Tate atoned for another drop with a big day and the winning touchdown reception. 
oHensive line: Oausen was finally sacked (twice) but was not consistently pres­sured. Run blocking was very solid, but a second straight week with several penal­ties is a cause for concern. 
defensive line: Outside of a big play by 
Ian Williams, the line was hardly able to pressure Cousins or close up holes in the running game. 
linebackers: Brian Smith had seven tack­les, but the linebackers -like the rest of the Irish defense-weren't able to make a big play when it mattered most. 
defensive backs: Kyle McCarthy led the 
Irish in tackles and had an interception 
for the third straight game, but the Irish 
struggled in coverage, giving up 354 yards through the air. 
special teams: Nick Tausch easily made 
both field goal attempts but missed an 
early PAT. Ethan Johnson had a crucial 
block of a late Michigan State point after. 
coaching: Weis' play calling was effective, including effective use of the Wildcat. Tenuta's blitzes are not reaching oppos­ing quarterbacks, and 11 penalties show discipline must be improved. 
overall: A huge win for the Irish 

QUENTIN STENGERffhe Observer 

Senior wide receiver Robby Parris and sophomore tight end Kyle Rudolph celebrate after a Parris touchdown catch from running back Armando Allen In the third quarter. 

Winning all that really counts 
There was a terrible feeling of deja vu in the air late in the fourth quarter Saturday. 
Michigan State was driving, the Irish defense was struggling, and it felt like Ann Arbor all over again. 
There was an 
··~-~}·~·.. ·

ominous sense of desperation 
-{.... l-

hanging over Notre Dame 
.............
~---}
..11' . .
Stadium as 
\ ... . 
~ .,.~· ­

Kirk Cousins picked apart 
Michael Bryan 

the Irish sec­ondary while 
Associate
time wound 
Sports Editor 
down. 

But suddenly there was a little pressure on the Spartan quarterback, and Kyle McCarthy came down with yet another interception. 
The fears of Irish fans were relieved with a couple of quick knees and a happy alma mater. Yes, just like that, Notre Dame was 2-1. 
It was an ugly win over an oppo­nent that this Irish team is defi­nitely more than three points bet­ter than. But in college football, especially in rivalry games, the name of the game is often sur­vival, and the final score is all that matters. 
There are a number of serious issues following the 33-30 win. The passing defense, surprisingly enough, has looked just as bad through three games as the run defense. One of the best players on this Notre Dame team was injured and is lost for the season. The Irish racked up 11 penalties and made critical mental mistakes that allowed the Spartans to come within inches of escaping South Bend with a victory. 


Still, despite all this, Notre Dame came out on top. 
At 2-1 the Irish are where a lot of people pegged them to be after three games, and the bright spots are certainly still there. 
Jimmy Clausen has hardly thrown any poor incompletions, much less made any game-chang­ing mistakes. Kyle Rudolph cannot be brought down by one defender and is becoming an explosive weapon as a sophomore. 
Armando Allen makes the right cut and gets extra yards on almost every run. 
It's a season that is played one week at a time, and the won-loss column is all that really matters. In pass/fail classes, an 'A' is the same as a 'C-.' 
And while the 2009 Irish tran­script shows a grade far below a 4.0, this team has shown a resiliency and heart in the past two games that has been absent for two years. There is finally a winning culture in the locker room, and this is a team that believed on every snap it would beat Michigan and Michigan State, even when things looked grim. 
The big question last week was how the team would respond to the heartbreaking loss at Michigan. The first quarter pro­vided an answer, as Notre Dame forced a quick punt and demol­ished the Spartan secondary its first two straight drives. 
After that point the long-term problems surfaced, as they will in 
• 
Check outThe Observer's Irish Insider podcast 

at ndsmcobserver.com/podcasts
IRISH INSIDER 
as beat writers Bill Brink, Michael Bryan, Matt Gamber &Sam Werner PODCAST discuss Notre Dame's win over Michigan State. 
most games for the rest of the season. This is not a perfect team, but one that is beginning to understand its flaws. 
Charlie Weis, for all his miscues, has never been shy about making adjustments. Many of them have worked, some have not. Continual corrections will be needed year to iron out the defensive issues, and Weis will have his hands full adjusting his schemes for the loss of Michael Floyd. 
But now the schedule opens up a little from here. Notre Dame does not have to be great to do everything they're supposed to this year, just very good. 
It will take some time before the Irish start to ascend the rankings. This is somehow still a young defensive team, and the winning foundation will have to be built on wins like this one. It won't be pretty, and will probably drive me crazy, but for now, it will get the job done. 
Hopefully the Irish take care of business against Purdue. This will be another game with a huge tal­ent disparity that on paper is a comfortable win. 
But even if it's closer than the experts predict, surviving and get­ting the win on the road in a hos­tile environment is all that mat­ters. 
Sometimes it's not that easy ­just ask USC. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd. edu 


Monday, September 21, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Floyd likely out for regular season 

By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
Time for Plan B. 
With sophomore wide receiver Michael Floyd likely out for the regu­lar season with a broken clavicle, Irish coach Charlie Weis and the Notre Dame offense will need a few playmakers to step up and fill the void, beginning Saturday at Purdue. 
Who exactly that will be remains to be seen, but with a plethora of talent­ed receivers waiting in the wings, the Irish expect someone to emerge. 
"That's what I was telling receivers. It's your time to step up," quarter­back Jimmy Clausen said. "Whoever you are, if you get in there, you got to make plays." 
Clausen's experience should help ease the pain of Floyd's absence, as the junior has shown an increased ability to spread the ball to a variety of targets this season. That will be the best way to replace Floyd, Weis said. 
"You never can really replace Michael Floyd, that caliber of player. He's an A-flight player," Weis said Sunday. "But what you do is put other people in position to pick up some of that responsibility. Having veterans in that mix makes it easier to do that." 
Senior Robby Parris and junior 
Duval Kamara are big targets who the field much more this week." have produced in the past. Both In fact, Evans was set to get enjoyed their best collegiate seasons increased reps even before Floyd's during the 2007 season and will likely injury, Weis said. But changes in see a heavy increase in targets in Michigan State's defensive game plan Floyd's absence. would have made the set 
Kamara briefly held of plays involving Evans the record for most less effective, so Weis
"I felt like I had to

touchdown receptions ended up not using him
make a few more

in a season before as much, he said. Floyd broke his mark plays than I would "Shaq was in a pack­of four with seven in age that, because of the
have with Michael on
2008. game went, we weren't
the field, but I like the 
Sophomores John going to expose our­Goodman and Deion pressure. " selves to the package," Walker will also likely Weis said. "If they're work into the rotation going to play a certain
Golden Tate 

on a more consistent way, sometimes you
Irish wide receiver

basis, though the two have something that you 
have combined for just one catch in their careers, and that came on a Walker reception late in the Nevada game Sept. 5. 
But the one name that has popped up the most in the last day or so has been that of freshman Shaquelle Evans. The highly touted California product was on the field during Notre Dame's final series at Michigan last weekend, and he'll be out there a whole lot more against the Boilermakers on Saturday, Weis said. 
"With Michael's injury, that moves him up," Weis said. "You'll see him on think will just kill them. 
They didn't play that way, so that package he was involved in didn't get much action." 
Even in Floyd's absence, Clausen should feel confident with the likes of Golden Tate (19 receptions, 301 yards, 3 touchdowns) and Kyle Rudolph (13 receptions, 162 yards, 1 touchdown) still available. 
"I felt like I had to make a few more plays than I would have with Michael on the field, but I like the pressure," Tate said. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Defense uses deep rotation in victory 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Wrirer 
A total of 21 different players took the field for the Irish on the defensive side of the ball, many of whom were in on a signifi­cant number of snaps. Weis attributed the change to 
things that he  saw while  
watching film  from  last  
week's game.  

"[Using more personnel] was the plan that I felt from watching the tape after the Michigan game," Weis said. "One of the things I felt at the end of the Michigan game, our frontline players, some of them, weren't get­ting any production. It could be for one of two rea­sons: They're not playing very well or they're spent. One of the plans today was to make sure, regardless where it was in the situa­tion, we were rolling people through there." 
The cornerbacks also saw heavy rotation with seniors Darrin Walls, Raeshon McNeil and Sergio Brown, junior Gary Gray, and soph­omores Jamoris Slaughter and Robert Blanton all sharing time in the second­ary. 
Broken Streak 
Before Saturday, the Irish hadn't beaten the Spartans at Notre Dame Stadium in their previous six tries, a streak dating back to 1993. 
"Yeah, I think that's two streaks we've been talking about," Weis said. "We had that Bowl streak that they were getting drilled on that they got out of the way. They got this one out of the way. There's a lot of foot­ball to be played. But I think they're a bunch of happy campers today." 
Injuries 
Notre Dame was hit with two injuries in the second quarter. First, sophomore receiver Michael Floyd went down with a shoulder injury after landing awkwardly in the corner of the end zone. 
Floyd suffered a broken clavicle on the play and underwent surgery Sunday. Weis said he expects Floyd to be out the remainder of 
the regular season. 
On the next drive, Clausen went down after being sacked and hobbled off the field with a foot injury. Clausen missed only one play on that drive and returned on the Irish's next possession. 
According to Weis, Clausen will have an MRI on Monday "so we know exactly what we have there." 
"Jimmy's a tough guy, and unless there's a serious injury, he's going to do all he can to play [against Purdue]," Weis said. "So we'll just see where we are." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 
•

scoring suininary 
1st  2nd  3rd 4th  Total  
Notre Dame  13  3  10  7  33  
Michigan St.  3  14  7  7  30  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 0 
Aramndo Allen 13-yd run (Nick Tausch kick) with 12:21 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 84 yards, 1:40 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 3 
Brett Swenson 43-yd field goal with 11 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 43 yards, 5:10 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 13, Michigan State 3 
Michael Floyd 22-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen (Tausch kick failed) with 4:59 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 55 yards, 2:12 elapsed. 
Second quarter Notre Dame 13, Michigan State 10 
Blair White 30-yd pass from Keshawn Martin (Swenson kick) with 9:30 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 80 yards, 1:12 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 16, Michigan State 10 
Tausch 22-yd field goal with 3:14 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 50 yards, 3:47 elapsed. 
Michigan State 17, Notre Dame 16 
Larry Caper 1-yd run (Swenson kick) with 1:01 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 81 yards, 2:13 elapsed. 
Third quarter Notre Dame 23, Michigan State 17 
Robby Parris 5-yd pass from Allen (Tausch kick) with 11:49 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 70 yards, 3:11 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 26, Michigan State 17 
Tausch 46-yd field goal with 5:34 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 18 yards, 4:11 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 26, Michigan State 23 
Caper 7-yd run (Swenson kick) with 1:24 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 70 yards, 4:10 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Michigan State 30, Notre Dame 26 
While 17-yd pass from Kirk Cousins (Swenson kick) with 9:33 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 86 yards, 2:27 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 33, Michigan State 30 
Golden Tate 33-yd pass from Clausen (Tausch kick) with 5:18 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 73 yards, 4:15 elapsed. 

statistics 
total yards 
Nl) 437 

rushing yards 
ND 133 l\ISLJ l o;; 
passing yards 

Nl) 304 

return yards Nl) 148 ~LSL 15·1 
time of possession ND 34:30 

~­
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 21, 2009 
1 I I I I I I 








Breaking t~e streak 
The Irish defeated the Spartans at Notre Dame Stadium for the first time since 1993, holding off a late Michigan State drive to secure a 33-30 win. Senior safety Kyle McCarthy intercepted a pass near the Irish end zone with 
1:10 remaining to preserve the win, his third straight game with a pick. Junior quarterback Jimmy Oausen finished with 300 yards for the fourth straight game going back to last season's Hawaii Bowl, battling a foot injury to throw for two touchdowns. The Notre Dame offense was dominant early, as Oausen completed his first ten passes en route to a 13-3 first quarter lead. The Spartans quickly responded, however, taking a 17-16 lead into halftime. Notre Dame took the lead back on the opening possesion of the second half and again in the fourth quarter, as Oausen connected with Golden Tate for a 33-yard score that proved to be the winning points. 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


Clockwise from top: junior receiver Golden Tate drops a pass; sophomore defensive tackle Ethan Johnson reacts after blocking an extra point attempt; sophomore receiver Michael Floyd and junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen sing the alma mater; Clausen drops back to pass; and offensive linemen Sam Young and Trevor Robinson talk during a timeout. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE 
page 13 
By ERIC PRISTER Scene Writer 
Dan Brown, the best-sell­ing author of "The Da Vinci Code" and "Angels and Demons," strikes again with another extraordinarily interesting, historically questionable yet remarkably entertaining novel, "The Lost Symbol," released Sept. 15. 
A sequel to "The Da Vinci Code," "The Lost Symbol" traces Harvard professor and symbolist Robert Langdon as he seeks to avoid what inevitably turns out to be a worldwide catas­trophe, using his unique knowledge of symbolism and history as his guidepost. Langdon arrives on the scene -this time the streets of Washington, D.C. -to find his friend and mentor Peter Solomon kidnapped, along with the kidnapper's claim that only Langdon has the ability to save Solomon's life. 
As Langdon attempts to solve the clues before him in time to save his kidnapped friend, he is pursued by both the CIA, led by the short but terrifying director of CIA Office of Security, Inoue Sato and by Mal'akh, a god-like man, tattooed from head to toe with more knowledge and ability than anyone could have imagined. Both, it seems, desire to uncover the secrets of the Freemasons, a secret order in which Solomon is highly involved. 
Mal'akh, like the albino Silas from "The Da Vinci Code," is another of Brown's monster-like villains, whose physical appearance is just as terrifying as his inten­tions. Mal'akh will seemingly stop at nothing to uncover the secret held by Peter Solomon and torment the Solomon family and only Langdon has the ability to stop him. 

In "The Lost Symbol," Brown all but abandons his use of artwork that is so prominent in his other works in favor of the true code breaking that Langdon must do to accomplish his task. This novel includes fewer historical revelations and scandalous discoveries, but replaces it with sus­pense, since it seems as though Mal'akh is always waiting for Langdon around the corner. 
Brown has often been crit­icized for making attacks on Christian faiths and particu­larly the Catholic Church, but he avoids doing so in "The Lost Symbol" -sort of. 
Though it does not directly focus on Christianity, the novel does claim to unveil some of the mysteries of the Freemasons, the ramifica­tions of which would be seen as troublesome for many faiths, including Christianity. It seems as though Brown cannot help but take shots at organized religion, and though he does not focus this book on it, his contempt for their structures is still evident. 
Despite this, Brown surely knows how to keep a read­er's attention, by ending chapters -which for him are very short on cliffhangers, and telling mul­tiple stories at the same time, so that resolution does not come immediately. "The Lost Symbol," like all of Brown's books, is perfect for a college student who wants to take a break from the daily homework grind. It's short chapters make for easy stopping places, and the die­
tion is simple and straight­forward, which takes much less concentration to read that the average college assignment. 
The only drawback to "The Lost Symbol" is that the final twist and resolution come a bit too soon. Brown could easily have ended the book before he does, but it seems that he wants to add a bit of his own philosophy to the work, and does so in the ending chapters. This sec­tion brings to light some of the questions that have been unanswered throughout the book, but without action to back them up, it leaves something to be desired. 
Having said that, "The Lost Symbol" is exactly what it is supposed to be -a fast­paced novel that keeps the reader interested, gives an interesting and new view at some of America's most famous men and landmarks, and is an overall enjoyable read. For those who do not enjoy Brown's books, this will be no different. But for those who do, "The Lost Symbol" may just be his best yet. 
The Lost Symbol Dan Brown 

10 Words or Less: A 
fast-paced novel that's less religion, more America 

Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE Assistant Scene Editor 
What's a girl to do when her best friend turns into a boy-eating demon? Kick that demonic succubus back to hell of course. Everyone knows how hellish teenage girls can be, but "Jennifer's Body" takes it to a whole new level. 
Megan Fox plays Jennifer, the typical popular mean girl turned not-so-typical cannibalistic she-demon from hell. Amanda Seyfried, of "Mamma Mia" fame, stars as Jennifer's less than social­ly adept best friend, Needy. They live in a nowhere town ironically named "Devil's Kettle," where boys start disappearing one by one after a mysterious fire has Jennifer running off with an indie band that worships the devil. 
While writer Diablo Cody's sophomore attempt doesn't lose any of the kick and pop culture references that made "Juno" a hit, there are, however, several eye-roll inducing phrases that are obviously try­ing to mold the "teenage" group into witty pun machines. For instance, Jennifer changes the word jealous t() "jello," and walks around saying good­looking people are "salty," even before she wants to eat them. However, there are several redeeming clever culture slams like when a girl yells, "of course it's true, it's on their Wikipedia!" 
The soundtrack also contains the same kind of ''I'm just here ironically" music that made the "Juno" soundtrack such a huge success, featuring acts like Little Boots and Cute Is What We Aim For. 
Fox is defmitely taking on a bigger act­ing role than in the "Transformers" movies that made her famous, although it's not exactly difficult since that role seemly consisted of finding every possible way to rub her chest up against the hood of a car. 
The film opened at No. 5 in the U.S. box office on Friday, only pulling in $2.7 million in ticket sales, which shows that despite Fox's sex appeal, she still doesn't possess the chops to successfully open a movie. Audiences do however, have to give her credit for signing on to do a movie where she is devouring the very demographic that makes her successful, and scenes of her vomiting black goo and covered in blood and guts are far more frequent than ones without. 
Audiences also end up feeling sorry for the sadistic (both before and after her transformation) Jennifer when they see how she dies to the tune of "867 -5309 (Jenny)" by Tommy Tutone, a fate too terrible to wish on anyone. 
While Fox is strapped into her less­than-a-stretch temptress role, pretty girl Seyfried shines as a plain girl. Normally it is enough to slap some glasses on an actress and have her wear loose, "nerdy" clothing to make her the Plain Jane char­acter, but it is really Seyfried's range that drives home her spin on the 'girl lower in the pecking order finding her strength and standing up to the queen bee' sce­nario. Except in this case the queen bee has fangs and a taste for human flesh, so naturally, our virtuous heroine needed to kick it up a notch as well, fighting her off in the fmal standoff wearing a pink prom dress that would make the '80s cringe. 
Despite enough gallons of blood and icky black bile to fill Lake Michigan and a very dead-eyed demonic Fox, "Jennifer's Body" is lacking in real scares, and it almost seems to be mocking the high school scare tactics thriller in the same way that "Juno" mocked the Lifetime movie teen pregnancy dramas. 
What it lacks in scare tactics, it makes up for by dealing with girl issues in a very, very twisted way. The entire movie has the "sandbox friends" competing right up until the very end, when they fight over Needy's boyfriend in a way that is slightly more extreme than reality, see­ing as how Jennifer wants to kill him. 
While "Jennifer's Body" may be twist­ed, it offers a very different and shock­ingly realistic view of how girls deal with the insecurities they have with friends, although obviously (hopefully) this prem­ise is so far exaggerated to make a point­that mean girls always get their due, courtesy of their supposed "weaker" friends, a fable that will no doubt empower every girl's inner high school Plain Jane. 
Jennifer's Body 
Directed by: Karyn Kusama Starring: Megan Fox, Amanda Seyfried, Adam Brody, Chris Pratt 

Contact Courtney Eckerle at ceckerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
' 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 21, 2009 
MLB 

Red Sox defeat Orioles for three-game sweep 
Angels stretch division lead to over seven games; Mets' Maine pitches five shutout innings in 6-2 wzn 
much, so the energy level was a appreciate it." 
Associated Press 

little low. It felt a lot better today." Gary Matthews Jr. snapped out 
BALTIMORE -As long as Matt Wieters had his second of his September slump with a Boston's starters keep throwing straight three-hit game for the tiebreaking homer and a two-run effectively, the Red Sox will have Orioles, but the difference was single, and Howie Kendrick drove an excellent chance to win -that Matsuzaka was effective and in five runs with a two-run homer even if their opponent isn't the Berken was not. and a bases-loaded triple. Juan Baltimore Orioles. "When we throw quality starts Rivera and Chone Figgins also 
Daisuke Matsuzaka extended we've been in pretty much every homered for the Angels (89-60), an outstanding stretch by game," Boston catcher Jason who won two of three in the Boston's rotation, and the Red Vartitek said. "It's a big part of series. Sox cruised past the Orioles 9-3 how we win." "It's important to reach our first Sunday for a three-game sweep. The Red Sox jumped to a 3-0 goal and today got us closer to 
Jason Bay and Jacoby Ellsbury lead in the first inning. After that," manager Mike Scioscia 
both homered and drove in three Berken walked two of the first said. "To beat the team chasing runs for the Red Sox, who cap­three batters, Bay hit an RBI sin­you is a positive." tured the season series 16-2 by gle and Mike Lowell singled in Los Angeles is closing in on its winning the final eight games. two runs. third straight division title and 
The victory, combined with the Victor Martinez extended his fifth in six years. The last team to Texas Rangers' loss to Los career-best hitting streak to 19 win the AL West three consecu­Angeles, reduced Boston's magic games with an RBI single in the tive seasons was Oakland from number to win the AL wild card second, and Ellsbury doubled in 1988-90. to seven. The Red Sox have an two runs in the third. The Rangers (81-67), who last eight-game lead over the That was all the offense the went to the playofl"s 10 years ago, Rangers. Red Sox needed. wrapped up a 2-7 homestand 
Pitching for the second time "The way I threw today is obvi­during which they had four since returning from a three­ously unacceptable," said Berken, shutout losses and dropped 2 1/2 month stay on the disabled list who yielded 10 hits in three games in the division standings. with a strained right shoulder, innings. "I was falling behind "We're not mathematically out Matsuzaka (3-5) allowed three consistently. It was just one of of it, but our chances aren't very ing two quick outs, Kendrick hit a able. You just can't play with a runs and eight hits in 5 1-3 those days when I threw the ball good right now," Ian Kinsler said. liner that glanced off the lack of intensity at this point innings. The right-hander struck awful." "We had a rough homestand. We stretched-out glove of center because it'll show up." out five and walked one, a suit­After Bay connected off Chris all knew that it was important. fielder Marlon Byrd and rolled to Angel Pagan finished with able follow-up to the six shutout Waters in the fourth to make it 7-We just didn't play well." the wall. three hits for New York, which innings he threw against L.A. on 0, Scott hit a two-run shot in the Boston leads the Rangers by Hank Blalock had an RBI single won two of three in the weekend Tuesday. bottom half. eight games in the AL wild-card in the Texas first before a two­series between the bottom two 
Boston starters have allowed Bay was hit by a pitch with the race. Texas' loss also meant that run single by Nelson Cruz, who teams in the NL East. Carlos three runs or fewer in 13 straight bases loaded in the sixth, and the New York Yankees could was 3 for 30 in his previous nine Beltran had an RBI single after games, going 8-1 with a 2.18 Ellsbury homered in the seventh, clinch a playoff berth Sunday games. David Murphy had a lead­resting Saturday and Wilson ERA. That's one the final blow in with a victory at Seattle. off double and scored on Kinsler's Valdez added a two-run triple in reason why the a season series After scoring only four runs sacrifice fly in the third, but the ninth. Red Sox have won that clearly combined in its previous six Rivera's solo homer came in the Maine earned his first win since 10 of 11, including showed the dis­games, Texas took a 3-0 lead in fourth. he threw six shutout innings in a
'The way I threw 
a 3-1 win Friday parity between the first off Lackey (11-8), who Byrd's HBI single in the fifth put 3-2 victory over Florida on May night. today is obviously the two teams. had allowed only three earned Texas up 5-3, but the Angels 31. He was activated last Sunday 
"It's amazing unacceptable. , "If you're runs in his previous four starts. homered twice in the following at Philadelphia and yielded one how, when pitch­going to com­But Los Angeles immediately inning to go ahead for good. run and two hits over three ing is consistent, pete with a responded with runs each time innings in a 5-4 loss. 
Jason Berken
everything else team of that cal­after the Rangers scored. Mets 6, Nationals 2 "I still don't feel like I have I seems to have a Orioles pitcher iber, you've got Lackey allowed five runs, four John Maine managed to get his guess 100 percent strength back way of working, to pitch up to earned, in six innings with four first win since May, even with a there as far as pitching-wise but even when the their level and strikeouts and two walks. pitch count limiting his work. He it doesn't hurt," Maine said, "and bats aren't maybe you've got to hit "He kept pitching," Scioscia got a big assist from the free­I felt better today so that's always alive," manager Terry Francona up to their level," Scott said. said. "That's what makes him swinging Washington Nationals. a good sign." said. "It certainly gives you a "We've gotten our hits and we've good." Maine pitched five shutout Maine, Elmer Dessens , Sean chanc.~ every night to be a good scored runs, but you've got to Matthews was 1 for 13 in his innings and Daniel Murphy had Green and Brian Stokes com­team. match them on the mound. That's seven games this month before a two RBis to lead the New York bined to retire 12 straight batters 
The pitching and offense were the first place you've got to start." two-run single in the second that Mets to a 6-2 win Sunday. before Washington rallied in the perfectly aligned Sunday. While got Los Angeles to 3-2. Maine (6-5) got deep enough to ninth. Ryan Zimmerman had an Matsuzaka kept the Orioles Angels 10, Rangers 5 His baserunning mistake led to get the decision despite being RBI double and scored on Adam scoreless, Boston built a 6-0 lead Maybe John Lackey was an inning-ending double play, held to 7 5 pitches in his second Dunn's single. over three innings against rookie already thinking about his plans when he started running on a fly start after a three-month stint on Stokes struck out Josh Jason Berken (5-12). for the evening. ball thinking that there were the disabled list with a sore right Willingham for the second out 
"They pitched well. They hit Despite struggling through six already two outs. But he made up shoulder. He allowed two singles but walked Elijah Dukes to put well," said Baltimore's Luke innings, Lackey was good enough for that with his two-out solo and a walk, throwing 50 strikes runners on first and second. Scott, who hit his career-high to pitch the AL West-leading Los homer in the sixth that broke a 5-in his crisp performance. Manager Jerry Manuel then 24th homer. "They're a good Angeles Angels closer to the post­all tie and chased rookie left-ban­"They were up there swinging, brought in Francisco Rodriguez , team. It's just really simple. They season with a 10-5 victory der Derek Holland (7-12), who not many foul balls today," Maine who threw a called third strike outpitched us. They outhit us." Sunday over second-place Texas lost his fifth consecutive start. said. "They did put it in play and past pinch-hitter Cristian 
Bay's 35th homer tied a career that stretched their division lead "It's a bad play. That can't hap­they did help me out. They Guzman for his 33rd save. high, and the three RBis gave to 7 1/2 games with 13 to play. pen," Matthews said. "Luckily, it helped me get five innings out of Washington's best opportunity him a career-best 110. The slug­"I was a little off. I stunk even didn't come back to haunt us." my pitch count." against Maine came in the fifth, ger sat out Saturday's game with in the bullpen. It was one of those Kendrick's two-run homer tied Nationals manager Jim when Willingham led off with a flulike symptoms after leaving days," said Lackey, the native the game earlier in the sixth. He Riggleman saw the same thing, single and advanced to third on Friday's game early for the same Texan who was headed across finished with three hits and is and chided his team for its effort Alberto Gonzalez 's one-out liner reason. the street for the Dallas Cowboys' batting .420 (34 of 81) in his last in a brief postgame talk. to center. Maine then struck out 
"I got an IV before the game. It home opener in their new stadi­20 games. "It was just a lackluster per­Jamie Burke and retired pitcher picked me up a little bit," Bay um Sunday night. "But the boys An inning later, after Los formance," Riggleman said. "We Garrett Mock on a bouncer to said. "I haven't been able to drink took care of me for sure and I Angeles loaded the bases follow-can't have that. That's not accept-second to end the inning. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

LosT&FouNo 
LOST: 
Womans silver link Citizen eco-drive watch. Round face encircled by crystals. Lost outside LaFortune Saturday, Sept. 5, following the band to the stadium. High sentimental value. $50 reward. 
Cheryl574-272-9037. 

WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt.,no experience needed,customer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
Drivers Avg. Weekly $1000-1200. Local Runs Based out of New Carlisle, IN. Great Pay, Hometime, Benefits. CD L-A w/XEnd., 2 yrs Exp. Req. 866-339-0072. www.cry­odrivers.com 
FoR SALE 
12 x 65 mobile home, 3 bdrm, car­port, patio, all appliances, low utili­ties, new roof. $300/mo for lot rent. Extra storage. $6,500. Call 269­683-7506. 10 minutes from ND. 

FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals. com. 
HOUSES 



TICKETS 

HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 

PERSONAL 

EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http:1/csap.nd. edu UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND s website at :http :1/pregnancysupport@nd. edu 
Whether it's not being picked for a team, or being picked for a team and showing up and realizing the team doesn1 exist. Or that the sport doesn1 exist? I should've known. Poopball? 






OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Monda}': Se~tember 21, 2009 page 15 
NFL 

Men's Soccer NSCAA/ Adidas Top 25 
team  record  previous  
1  Akron  4·0·0  1  
2  Wake Forest  3·0·1  2  
3  North Carolina  3·0·1  3  
4  Maryland  2·1·0  7  
5  South Florida  4·0·0  8  
6  Creighton  1·0·1  5  
7  California  3·1·0  11  
8  Indiana  2·1-1  12  
9  UC Santa Barbara  4-1-0  6  
10  Dartmouth  3·0·1  13  
11  Duke  4·0·0  19  
12  UClA  2+0  15  
13  Harvard  4·0·0  NR  
14  Boston University  3·1·1  14  
15  St. John's (N.Y.}  1·1·2  4  
16  Louisville  3·0·1  17  
17  UC Irvine  4-1-1  9  
18  Michigan State  3·0·1  20  
19  Monmouth  5·0·0  24  
20  Virginia  2+0  16  
21  NOTRE DAME  2·2·1  10  
22  Kentucky  4-0·0  RV  
23  North Carolina State  3·1·0  18  
24  College of Charleston  5·0·0  RV  
25  Northwestern  2+1  22  
Women's Soccer  
NSCAA/ Adidas Top 25  
team  record  previous  
1  North Carolina  6·0·0  1  
2  Portland  7·0·0  2  
3  Stanford  7-0-0  3  
4  UClA  4·1·1  6  
5  Florida State  6-1-0  4  
6  Boston College  6-0-0  10  
7  Florida  5·2·0  14  
8  Wake Forest  7·1·0  8  
9  California  5-1-0  16  
10  Virginia  4·1·2  9  
11  Purdue  5·2·0  7  
12  Santa Clara  5·2·0  RV  
13  South Carolina  6-0-0  18  
14  NOTRE DAME  3-3-0  5  
15  Georgia  6·0·1  15  
16  Rutgers  5·1·1  17  
17  Texas A&M  3·3·0  13  
18  San Diego  5·2·1  21  
19  UCF  5·1·1  RV  
20  Maryland  7·0·0  RV  
21  Denver  5·1·1  RV  
22  Indiana  6-1-0  25  
23  Colorado  4·3·0  20  
24  Oklahoma State  5·2·0  19  
25  Ohio State  5·1-1  RV  
Women's Volleyball  
Bison/ UVCA Top 10  

team 

1 Penn State 2 Texas 3 Washington 4 Hawaii 5 Florida 6 Michigan 7 UClA 8 Nebraska 9 Minnesota 10 Iowa State 
previous 
1 
2 


3 6 4 7 8 5 9 
11 

around the dial 
MLB 

Chicago White Sox vs. Minnesota Twins 7p.m., CSN 
NFL 

Indianapolis Colts vs. Miami Dolphins 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Frank Gore kept an eye on the scoreboard as he ran like mad, making sure nobody caught him on the way to the end zone. 
And it wasn't even close. 
"Yeah, I was looking up there," Gore said with a grin of his regular practice. "I ran all day." 
Gore's spectacular after­noon single-handedly re· established the run game for San Francisco. 
Gore had touchdown runs of 79 and a career-best 80 yards and finished with 207 yards on 16 carries, and the 49ers beat the Seattle Seahawks 23-10 to take an early hold atop the NFC West standings. 
"I told myself, 'I'm not looking back,'" Gore said. "I told myself: 'Hey, if they're going to catch me, they're going to catch me. I'm just going to look straight ahead."' 
Gore, who surpassed San Francisco's Week 1 rushing total of 21 yards in the first series, nearly reached his franchise mark of 212 yards set in 2006 before leaving the game in the fourth quarter with a sprained right ankle that wasn't con­sidered serious. He became only the second player in NFL history to have two TD runs of 79 or more yards in the same game, joining Barry Sanders. Sanders had runs of 80 and 82 yards at 
Tampa Bay on Oct. 12, 1997. 
"Hey, I'm happy. I didn't know that," Gore said. "We're 2-0 in our division. We proved to a lot of people we're getting better and better." 
Seattle (1-1), coming off a 28-0 season-opening win at St. Louis. took a big blow losing quarterback Matt Hasselbeck to a rib injury just before halftime follow· ing a hard hit near the goal line by Patrick Willis. Hasselbeck didn "t return after completing 10 of 18 passes for 97 yards and no touchdowns. 
He was taken to a hospital for X-rays and aCT scan. X­rays were negative while the CT scan was inconclu-
IN BRIEF 

Favre makes his 271st 
straight start against Detroit DETROIT -Brett Favre has another NFL record. 
Favre started Sunday for the 271st straight time in the regular season and threw two touchdown passes to help the Minnesota Vikings beat the Detroit lions 27-13. 
"Today was really not a whole lot dif. ferent than last week or last year," said Favre, who turns 40 next month. "Every game I play at this point, I'm pretty grateful. I know how difficult it is." 
Defensive end Jim Marshall had the previous mark, starting 270 games in a row for Minnesota from 1961-1979. 
"Jim was going to try to travel with us to this game; however, this happens to be a first wedding anniversary for him and he kind of thought that would maybe not be a good idea," Vikings coach Brad Childress said. ''I'm sure we'll see him next week." 
The NFC North-leading Vikings host San Francisco in their home opener. 
Haas shoots seven under ~ 
to win Geater Hickory Classic 
CONOVER, N.C. -Jay Haas overcame a slow start to shoot a 7-under 65 on Sunday, winning his second Greater Hickory Classic by two shots over Russ Cochran and Andy Bean. 
Haas, who also won the Champions Tour event in 2005, set a tournament-record of 18-under 198 at Rock Barn Golf and Spa's Robert Trent Jones course. His three-day total broke the mark set by R.W. Eaks in 2007 by one shot. 
It also made the 13-time winner on the 50-and-over tour the sec· ond repeat winner in the tourna­ment's seven-year history. Eaks won back-to-back titles in 2007 and '08. 
Cochran and Bean also shot 65 on Sunday, with Hal Sutton (65) and second-round co-leader Nick Price (68) tied for fourth at 15 under. 
sive and Hasselbeck rejoined his teammates for the 2-hour flight home. 
"It is a rib bruise at this point," coach Jim Mora said. "He's doing much bet· ter ... he's feeling much more comfortable. We believe at this point, and it's very preliminary, that he's going to be OK." 
Gore also posted just the third 200-yard rushing game in team history. Charlie Garner ran for 201 yards at Dallas on Sept. 24, 2000. Gore had his 212­yard day Nov. 19, 2006, also at Candlestick Park against Seattle. His 246 total yards from scrimmage Sunday were a career high, topping the 238 he had in that '06 game with the Seahawks. 

Joe Crede will need third 
surgery, two month recovery 
MINNEAPOLIS -Minnesota Twins third baseman Joe Crede plans to have another surgery on his injured back. 
Crede, out for the season, said the pro­cedure by Dr. Andrew Dossett, a Dallas orthopedist, will remove fluid from a herniated disk that is impeding on a nerve. Crede expects to have the opera­tion Friday. The date will be fmalized Monday. 
"It's something I have to do ifI want to get back out there," Crede said before Sunday's game against Detroit. 
Recovery time is about two months. 
The 31-year-old Crede has had two major operations in the past two years, the last in October. He played in only 144 games with 502 at-bats from 2007 · 08. 
Hoping he could solidify third base, Minnesota signed Crede to a one-year, incentive-laden contract before spring training. He batted .225 with 15 homers and 48 RBis in 90 games this season. 
: page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 21, 2009 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
NCAA BASKETBALL
MLB 

Arkansas coachto suspend players 
Bradley suspended 
Associated Press 

for rest of season 
-
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS Milton Bradley's season is finished. Perhaps his days with the Chicago Cubs are, too. 
The Cubs suspended their volatile outfielder for the rest of the season Sunday, one day after he criticized the team in a newspaper interview. 
Bradley was disciplined for conduct detrimental to the team. General manager Jim Hendry said he decided to send Bradley home after 
learning  of  the  player's  
remarks  in  the  (Arlington  
Heights)  Daily  Herald  of  

Illinois. Bradley, scratched from Saturday's lineup with a sore left knee, was quoted as saying "you understand why they haven't won in 100 years here." 
Bradley has two years remaining on a three-year, $30 million contract that he signed as a free agent last off­season. Hendry said he doesn't know if the relationship can be salvaged. 
"The last few days became too much for me to tolerate," Hendry said. "I just decided late last night that's what I was going to do, and I didn't give it a lot of thought what's· going to transpire moving for­ward." 
Cubs manager Lou Piniella agreed with Hendry's move. 
"Jim made the decision and I support it," the manager said. "I really do." 
Chicago signed the switch­hitting Bradley to provide bal­ance in the lineup, but he struggled throughout his first season with Chicago, batting .257 with 12 homers and 40 RBis. He was booed vigorously by home fans at Wrigley Field. 
The Cubs, who haven't won the World Series since 1908, began the day eight games out of the NL wild-card spot with 15 to play. They were 11 games behind first-place St. Louis in the NL Central. 
Piniella said whether the 31­year-old Bradley is with the team next season will be entirely Hendry's call. He was­n't sure why Bradley was unhappy in Chicago, and maintained he did his best to deal with a player who he quickly learned required plen­ty of space. 
"I don't know what I could have done. I really don't," Piniella said. "I tried to make it as comfortable as I possibly could for Milton." 
In the newspaper story, Bradley also was quoted as 
saying the team did not have a "positive environment." He said he didn't know if he'd be back next season. 
"I need a stable, healthy, enjoyable environment," Bradley told the newspaper. "There's too many people everywhere in your face with a microphone asking the same questions repeatedly. 
"Everything is just bashing you. It's just negativity." 
Cubs outfielder Reed Johnson had trouble under­standing why Bradley was so unhappy. 
"I came from Toronto and come here and just like fall in love with the city and fall in love with the organization," Johnson said. "It's just hard for me to believe that you can come to this city, come to this organization, and not enjoy your time here." 
Johnson didn't think Bradley had any reason to feel isolated from the rest of the team, say­ing "I think for the most part that was his choice." 
Hendry was surprised to learn that Bradley wasn't enjoying Chicago after seeking a deal with the Cubs in the off­season. 
"That's why it was so discon­certing to hear about negativi­ty," Hendry said. "It's a great place to play. Great ballpark, great city, greatest fans in the world. 
"That's just something that's intolerable to me, to blame the fans and the other things that were blamed." 
Micah Hoffpauir played right field, Bradley's spot, for the 
third straight game in the finale of a three-game series against the St. Louis Cardinals on Sunday night. Outfielder 
BE A HERO 
Tyler Colvin, a first-round draft pick in 2006, was recalled from Double-A Tennessee. 
The oft-injured Bradley has 
D~.-..A.TE a history of boorish behavior during 10 years in the majors with seven teams. 
BL~~D 
He was sent home by Piniella during a June game following an angry outburst in the dugout, and suspended for a game after arguing with umpire Larry Vanover when he was called out on strikes with the bases loaded April 16. 
In 2004, Bradley was ordered to undergo anger management counseling while with the Dodgers after being suspended for charging a fan in the stands who had thrown a bottle near him. During the NL playoffs that year, he called a reporter an "Uncle Tom." 
SEI=»TEhi~ER 22 




LITTLE ROCK, Ark. Arkansas basketball coach John Pelphrey said Thursday he will suspend at least one player 2-3 games following a rape investigation that did not result in charges. 
The school released a state­ment from Pelphrey outlining punishment in the aftermath of the allegations. The release did not name any players and Pelphrey said he could not disclose specific punishments because of federal privacy laws. 
Authorities decided against charges after investigating a woman's claim that she had been raped Aug. 27 at a fra­ternity house. The allegations were made against three Arkansas basketball players. 
"Although the student-ath­letes involved have been cleared of any criminal wrongdoing, we expect Razorback student-athletes to adhere to a higher standard and code of conduct," Pelphrey said. 
The school did not say how many players would be sus­pended, though athletic department spokesman Kevin Trainor said it could be more than one. The school also said it would include educational programming, community service, additional condition­ing and "individualized meet­ings with an appropriate pro­fessional regarding decision­making choices" as part of its corrective actions. 
The school said the educa­tional programs would be pro­vided to all players. 
"I can assure you that there will be meaningful conse­quences for those individuals who have violated team rules and have not met the expecta­tions of conduct required of our student-athletes," Pelphrey said. 
An 18-year-old freshman named three basketball play­ers in the rape complaint, say­ing one forced her to commit a sex act and another began a sex act with her a short time later in a locked bedroom at the fraternity house. 
Prosecutor John Threet decided against filing charges, saying the investigation didn't show that the woman was Threet has family ties to the university's athletic depart­ment. He also said a civil law­suit was a possibility. 
Since becoming the Razorbacks' coach in 2007, Pelphrey has disciplined play­ers several times, including at the end of last season when he suspended Jason Henry days before the Southeastern Conference tournament for an unspecified violation of team rules. Henry is no longer with the team. 
Former guard Patrick Beverley also said somebody wrote a paper for him while he was with the Razorbacks, 
unaware a sex act occurred or that she was 

"In his tenure at 
unable to say 

Arkansas, coach 
no. John Bass, a Pelphrey has 
Springdale consistently and 
attorney repre­

proactively dealt with 
senting the woman, issued inappropriate conduct a statement of 
and other team 
his own after 

issues.
the school's announcement. "Clearly this is Jeff Long 
not the justice Arkansas athletic director the victim seeks," Bass 
and the NCAA put the team on notice about its low aca­demic­progress rate. 
Arkansas Chancellor D a v i d Gearhart g a v e Pelphrey his unqualified support last 
week, and athletic 

said. "She and her family are disappointed that this action was taken before the University of Arkansas' Office of Community Standards and Student Ethics has had an opportunity (to) hear the mer­its of the victim's ethics com­plaint filed shortly after the incident." 
Bass has said the family might request a special prose­cutor be appointed to re­examine the case because director Jeff Long echoed that sentiment Thursday. 
"In his tenure at Arkansas, coach Pelphrey has consis­tently and proactively dealt with inappropriate conduct and other team issues,"Long said. "Coach Pelphrey and his staff have my full support as they continue to lead our bas­ketball program in a manner that demands student-athlete accountability on and off the court." 

"l~c:.•-n~-3p•"~ 
l-.lot:re l>a•.... e 
St:c:acli-..1..~ 
CA.TE I> 
The Observer. 

S~£J'TII :B:E1'li> lVl:EI>I~~:L F~£J1'li>~'TI<:>~ 

Your Conzrnuniry Blood Bank 
Monday, September 21, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Meyers and Gators play it safe vs. Vols. 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. Florida coach Urban Meyer wanted to open things up against Tennessee. If he had it to do again, he probably would. 
But if the Volunteers were going to play conservatively, even when they were down several scores, Meyer figured he could, too. 
Meyer said the top-ranked Gators played it safe in Saturday's 23-13 victory against Lane Kiffin's Volunteers because of injuries and illnesses, respect for Tennessee's defense and a belief that the Vols weren't really trying to win the game. 
"When I saw them start handing the ball off, you did­n't feel like they were going after the win," Meyer said Sunday in conference call with reporters. "They wanted to shorten the game. I remember looking out there and there's 10 minutes left in the game and there's no no-huddle, they are down, I think it was 23-6, and (there's no) urgency. 
"The way we lose a game there is to throw an intercep­tion. I do have respect for their defense. Let's find a way to win the game." 
Meyer said the Gators are not out to impress pollsters and fans who want to see blowouts. 
"We're trying to win the game. A lot of it had to do with the way they were play­ing. That made our life a little easier." 
A flu bug that hit the team -very possibly swine flu though no cases have been confirmed -might have been as big an issue for the Gators as anything the Vols did Saturday. 
Running back Jeff Demps, tight end Aaron Hernandez and defensive end Jermaine Cunningham were all fighting the flu symptoms and were isolated in the days leading up to the game. 
Meyer did not hide his con­cern for the devastating effects the virus could have on his team. 
"It is a panic level of propor­tion I've never seen before," Meyer said. "My wife, with her great insight, said, 'Do you realize the swine flu and everything is hitting the Florida campus last week.' My gosh." 
Several college football teams, including Wisconsin and Mississippi, have dealt with team-wide flu outbreaks in recent weeks 
Meyer said team doctors and training staff were doing everything they could to pre­vent the bug from spreading throughout the Gators. Hand sanitizers were everywhere, and prevention checklists were posted all around the training facility. 
"We're trying the best we can, but it's rl:)al," Meyer said. "We go to the extremes. They get a separate dorm room for them. They get a separate hotel room for them. They put them right on whatever the flu stuff is. Our guys, our team doctors, they're on it as fast as you can get on it." 
Demps, Cunningham and Hernandez all played against th~ Volunteers, but none of them were particularly effec­tive. 
So Meyer put the game in quarterback Tim Tebow's hands. 

CENTER H)R SPIRiTUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Women, Wisdom. and Witness 
The Quest Project Continues..• 
A Symposium on Spirituality and Health 

A discussion 011 spirituality cotnpommts in medical trainiiJg curricula 
Friday September 25,2009 4p.m. Carroll Auditorium Madeleva Hall 
Among tl!efiuttw"ed experts: 
Harold Koenig, MI>, MHSt: l>uke Univenitv Medical Center Durham, North Carolina Philip Sheldrake, MTh, BD, FRSA, FRHistS 
Univenitv ofWales Lampetei, U.K. 

-------~------­
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
NOT~J: f}AMf. · !ND~A:;..<..>\ 
saintmarys.edulspirituality 
(574) 284-4636 
E-mail: kguthrie@saintmarys.edu 
F,·i!e and opl!tl to the public. 
MLB 
Tigers increase lead to three gatnes 
Dodgers working to clinch the division earlier than last season 
Associated Press 
The Detroit Tigers gave themselves a little breathing room in the AL Central. 
Placido Polanco drove in three runs, Detroit's bullpen pitched four shutout innings and the Tigers avoided a three-game sweep with a 6-2 win over the Minnesota Twins on Sunday to increase their division lead to three games. 
Ryan Raburn homered for slumping Detroit, which won for the second time in six games and fourth in 13. 
"We needed this one," pitcher Nate Robertson said. "You play here and the Twins get ~he first two, they sniff sweep. I've seen it a few times." 
Minnesota, which had won six straight, got two hits· from Joe Mauer , who increased his batting aver­age to a major league-best .374. The race between the Tigers and Twins is the tight­est in any division. 
"I guess we'll have to take two out of three and now go on a long road trip," Minnesota manager Ron Gardenhire said. "We'll see if we can hang in there until we get back to Detroit and go from there." 
The teams meet again for four garn,es at Comerica Park beginning Sept. 28. That will wrap up a 10-game road trip for Minnesota, and begin a seven-game, final-week gave up too many hits." 
Baker opened the fifth by walking Gerald Laird and allowing a single to Ramon Santiago. Polanco drove in both with a single to right field two batters later for a 4-2 lead. Polanco was 6 for 11 in the three-game series and is hitting .365 against the Twins this year. 
Raburn homered leading off the eighth, and Polanco had a sacrifice fly in the inning. 
Detroit tied the score at 1 in the fourth when Magglio Ordonez singled with two outs off Baker and scored on a triple by Carlos Guillen . Ordonez is hitting .444 against Baker, tops among all active players with at least 25 plate appearances against the right-hander. Guillen is hitting .440 against Baker. 
Nick Punto had an RBI sin­gle in the home half for a 2­1 Minnesota lead. 
"I don't want to sound like a prophet, but I said a long time ago, at the start of the season, that there was a good chance this thing would go to the last week, to the last few games, and it's going to," Leyland said. "It's nice to be three instead of one, but it's going to go down to the wire." 
Dodgers 6, Giants 2 
The Los Angeles Dodgers may get a chance over the 
next 1 1-2 
weeks to find 

homestand for the Tigers, who have three  "Every time you beat those guys you don ,t  out if cham­pagne stains come out of  
games each in  • have to look at the  gray  uni­ 
Cleveland and Chicago before  scoreboard. ,,  forms easier than from  
going home. "From  the  Placido Polanco  white ones. A n d r  e  
beginning, every  Tigers second baseman  Ethier hit  a  
game was important and  go-ahead two-run  

now it's even more," Polanco homer off Tim Lincecum, said. "Every time you beat Ronnie Belliard added a two­those guys ·you don't have to run single against the reign­look at the scoreboard." ing NL Cy Young Award win­
In his fourth start after ner, and the NL West leaders missing two months follow­beat the San Francisco ing elbow surgery, Robertson Giants 6-2 on Sunday to go (2-2) went deep in the count 30 games over .500 for the 
against many hitters but first time in almost 24 years. allowed just five hits and two The Dodgers, earned runs in five innings. who clinched 
mean, you're certainly not fearful of anything -but you get what"you earn in this game. There are a lot of 
. clubs at this time of year that wish they could control their own destiny, and we're one of them." The Dodgers, trying to win consecutive division crowns for the first time since 1977­78, reduced their magic number to eight for clinching the West and four for secur­ing a postseason berth for the third time in four years. They improved the league's best record to 90-60, reach­ing the 90-victory mark for the first time since winning a division title in 2004 with a 93-69 record under Jim Tracy -who now manages the Rockies. It is Torre's 12th season with 90 or more wins, the others all coming with the Yankees during a 12-year span. Randy Wolf (11-6) shrugged off a pair of home runs by leadoff hitter Andres Torres , allowing five hits in six-plus innings with three strikeouts and two walks. The Giants fell 4 1/2 games behind the Rockies in the NL wild-card race. Colorado beat Arizona 5-1 on Sunday. "Obviously you can tell by the look on my face that I'm not really happy about my outing and the way I let the team down," said Lincecum, who has won 19 games fol­lowing Giants losses since the start of last season. "Today was definitely a big game. I felt like I could have done a better job out there and put up a better fight. The bullpen did a great job picking me up afterwards. It was just too late and too lit­tle." Lincecum (14-6) gave up five runs, four hits and four walks over four-plus innings and struck out three. The right-hander is 0-4 with a 
5.90 ERA in his last five road starts since beating St. Louis 10-0 on June 29 with a two­hitter. It was his shortest outing since opening day, 
, when he struggled through three innings against Milwaukee on April 7. 
"I felt like I was beating 


Zach Mine~ Bobby Seay the division ·Today was definitely myself out and Fernando Rodney com­title at home there," said
a big game. I felt like
bined to allow two singles in last season Lincecum, four scoreless innings of with three I could have done a who was relief for Detroit. games to better job out there pulled after 
"Miner did a hell of a job, spare, now walking the
and put up a better
and then Bobby got a big embark on a first two bat­
fight.,,
double-play ball," Tigers nine-game ters in the manager Jim Leyland said. road trip fifth. 
Those key outs came after through NL pitchers
Tim Linceum 
Mauer led off the eighth Washington, coming off Cy
Giants pitcher 
Young Award 
seasons were 

10-0 with four no-decisions against the Dodgers since Sept. 9, 2003, when Edwin Jackson beat Randy Johnson at Arizona in his major league debut. No reigning Cy Young winner in either league had been charged with a loss at Dodger Stadium since way back on June 5, 1993, when Kevin Gross beat Greg Maddux and the Atlanta Braves 5-l. 
Lincecum was 3-0 with a 
2.56 ERA in his six previous career starts against the Dodgers. 
inning with a single, and ended the hopes of 36,335 in attendance for a second con­secutive rally. Minnesota scored five runs in the eighth Saturday for a 6-2 win. 
Scott Baker (13-9). who was 4-1 in his previous seven starts, allowed eight hits and four earned runs in 4 2-3 innings. In three starts against the Tigers this year, Baker has given up 15 earned runs in 15 innings. 
"Whatever their numbers are, if you make good pitch­es you can get those guys out," he said. "Even though I felt like I threw OK, I just Pittsburgh and San Diego. They are five games ahead of second-place Colorado with 12 to play, and will finish the regular season at Chavez Ravine with a three-game series against the Rockies -who are 3-12 against them this year. 
"We're going to try to clinch as early as we can. I just want to get this thing over with, and winning games is the only way we're going to do it," manager Joe Torre said. "If we don't do it, we don't deserve it. That's what it come.s down to. I 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 21, 2009 
MLB 
Reds win to split series with Marlins 
Padres' top starter Correia leads team 
Associated Press 
After a string of close games, the Cincinnati Reds were glad to get a breather. 
Corky Miller hit a rare home run to back Kip Wells ' strong pitching and Cincinnati gained a split of its four-game series against the Florida Marlins by rolling to an 8-1 victory Sunday. 
Miller's three-run shot and Joey Votto 's two-run homer created a cushion for Wells, who put together his longest outing since being acquired by the Reds as a free agent on July 7 and joining the team July 31. 
Cincinnati manager Dusty Baker was thankful for a blowout win after watching his team play five consecutive one-run games and eight in a row decided by no more than three runs. The Reds had played 17 straight games that were decided by four runs or less since beating Pittsburgh 11-5 on Sept. 1. 
"That was great," Baker said. "A lot of crooked num­bers. Corky Miller had a big day. Kip Wells threw the ball well. He minimized his pitch­es. Not walking anybody was the key. He didn't have a lot of strikeouts, but he got a lot of ground balls and balls not hit very hard." 
The Marlins began the day trailing Colorado by four games for the NL wild card. They were seven behind first­place Philadelphia in the NL East. 
Wells (2-4), who opened the season in Washington's minor league system and went 0-2 for the Nationals before being released July 6, pitched seven-plus innings. Using his off-speed pitches to set up his fastball, he gave up one run and five hits with no walks and two strikeouts. His previ­ous longest outing with Cincinnati was 6 2-3 innings against Houston in his last start Tuesday, when he did not receive a decision. 
"I've been throwing my changeup more in the past month," Wells said. "I was falling behind early, but I was always able to eventually get it over the plate and get them to whack it at somebody." 
Wells faced the minimum 11 batters through the first 3 2-3 innings before NL batting leader Hanley Ramirez sin­gled to center field for Florida's first hit. 
"Wells' sinker was working good for him today," said Florida's Dan Uggla , who was 0 for 3 against the Cincinnati starter. "I don't know about everybody ·else, but I swung at a lot of bad pitches." 
Darnell McDonald led off. the third for Cincinnati with an infield single to shortstop. One out later, Wells sacrificed McDo"nald to second and he scored on Drew Stubbs ' dou­ble into the left-field corner. 
Florida starter Sean West walked Scott Rolen and Jonny Gomes with one out in the fourth. McDonald struck out, but Miller smacked West's first pitch into the left-field seats for his first home run in the majors since June 11, 2008, for Atlanta against the Cubs at Chicago. 
Miller, who has played at least one game in the major leagues in every season since 2001, hit his first homer for the Reds since June 22, 2002, at Atlanta. He doubled his RBI total for the season. 
"You never know when it's going to be your last one," Mi.Jler said. "It was great to get a four-run lead and give Kip some breathing room. That helped a lot." 
Stubbs led off the fifth with an infield single and Paul Janish followed with a bunt single. Votto struck out look­ing, and Florida manager Fredi Gonzalez called in right-hander Cristhian Martinez to face Brandon Phillips , who hit the first pitch through the hole into right field for an RBI single to give Cincinnati a 5-0 lead. 
"I got backed into a corner today and couldn't fight my way out of it," West said. "I didn't have my good stuff today. It's a huge learning experience coming from Double-A. I let my team dow!}. today. I think they expected more from me." 
Votto hit his 22nd homer in the seventh, a two-run shot, and Scott Rolen later fol­lowed Phillips' triple with a run-scoring groundout. 
West (7 -6). who had gone 4­1 with a 4.15 ERA in eight starts since being recalled from Double-A Jacksonville on Aug. 8, gave up five hits and five runs with three walks and four strikeouts in 4 2-3 innings. 
"It's the stuff you have to deal with in a youhg pitcher," Gonzalez said. "He takes a couple of steps forward, then one back." 
Padres 4, Pirates 0 
Kevin Correia didn't expect to become the ace of his hometown team's pitching staff when be signed with the San Diego Padres as a free agent last winter. 
Yet that is what the native of San Diego has become, turning in another outstand­ing September start Sunday with seven strong innings as the Padres beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 4-0. 
Correia (11-1 0) allowed six hits, did not walk a batter and struck out five. He is 2-0 with a 1.67 ERA in four starts this month. 
It is a strong finish to a sea­son in which he has set career highs for wins, innings 
(183) and strikeouts (131) after spending the previous six years bouncing between the starting rotation and var­ious relief roles with San Francisco and winning a total of 14 games. 
With Jake Peavy having been traded to the Chicago White Sox on July 31 and the Padres in a youth movement, Correia is their top starter. 
"It's just that I'm the guy with the most experience in the rotation and I'm the only guy that's been in there all year," Correia said. 
NFL 

Bearsopen home season witha win 
Cutler, Hester, Gould boost Chicago over defending champions 
Associated Press 

Hounded in the opener and harassed in the early going again Sunday, Jay Cutler sim­ply wanted a shot at redemp­tion. He got it and finally lived up to his lofty billing. 
Cutler made a big pass to Devin Hester , and Robbie Gould booted a 44-yard field goal with 15 seconds left to lift the Chicago Bears to a 17-14 victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers . 
Cutler hit rookie Johnny Knox with the tying touch­down midway through the fourth quarter. After Jeff Heed missed his second field goal of the period, a 43-yarder, Cutler helped set up Gould's winning kick with a 5-yard pass to Hester on third-and-4 at the Steelers 39 that kept the win­ning drive going. 
"I always hope to get a chance," Cutler said. "I always think we're going to get a chance if it's 3 minutes or if it's 30 seconds. All we want is a shot." 
Both teams were missing their defensive stars, with Chicago's Brian Urlacher out for the rest of the season with a dislocated right wrist and the Steelers' Troy Polamalu out three to six weeks with a torn medial collateral ligament in his left knee. The Bears also saw defensive end Alex Brown get helped off the field with a sprained left ankle with just over four minutes remaining after collecting two sacks. 
Cutler, however, came through like a star on a rainy afternoon in which he was pressured and had several passes dropped. Despite all that, his first home game with the Bears (1-1) was a big improvement over his debut with them. 
He finished with 236 yards and two touchdowns, with no interceptions, after being picked off a career-high four times in a season-opening loss at Green Bay. Knox, a rookie, was impressive, too, with six catches for 70 yards. 
That was enough to bHat the defending champions and off­set solid performances by Ben Hoethlisberger and Santonio Ilolmes. 
"In the face of pressure he made great decisions, put the ball in some good locations and guys converted third downs," Steelers coach Mike Tomlin said. "They did enough to win, we didn't. We accept responsibility for that." 
Hoethlisberger threw for 221 yards and Holmes caught five passes for 83, yet Reed's prob­lems in the fourth quarter gave the Bears the opening they needed. 
''I'm just embarrassed, you know, because these guys fight their tails off to win the game," Heed said. "If there is one player that can single­handedly lose the game, I'll take credit for it." 
The Steelers weren't about to do that. 
"Not even a blink in our eyes that we're concerned about what Jeff did," Holmes said. 
Roethlisberger gave the Steelers (1-1) a 14-7 lead mid­way through the third quarter when he ran it in from the 2, leaping over a lunging Danieal Manning , after Skokie native and Illinois product Rashard Mendenhall broke off a 39­yard run. After hitting the winner in overtime against Tennessee, Reed missed a 38­yard try that would have made it a 10-point game in the fourth. 
The Bears quickly respond­ed. 
Cutler, whose arrival in a trade with Denver sent expec­tations in Chicago soaring, hit tight end Greg Olsen on a 29­yard pass to put the ball on the Pittsburgh 23, and finished the drive with a 7-yarder to Knox, who beat Polamalu's fill-in Tyrone Carter to tie it at 14 with 6:21 left, a neat sequence on ari ugly after­noon. 
There were large seams on the field after it was re-sodded following back-to-hack U2 concerts the previous week­end, a short turnaround that left Bears players singing a fa-miliar tune about the sur­face at the stadium owned by the Chicago Parks District. 
There was a noticeable groan when Olsen slipped try­ing to make a catch in the end. zone on a rain-slicked field late in the second quarter, but the crowd roared a few plays later when Kellen Davis caught a 6-yard pass from Cutler to tie it at 7 with 19 sec­onds left in the half. Of course, the biggest cheers came at the end. 
"You don't really think about missing kicks," Gould said, "because when you do that you're going to miss kicks." 


"Come to the Table. • ••• " 
---A•iM.Ciiii;ffil!l• ........_.•.____ 
Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
Take time t.o learn more about. the Catholic faith byjoining the RCIA process (Rite ofChristian Initiation ofAdults) 
·----AtliiM'IC;Iii;flilll~ ......181'i....___ 
RCIA isfor those who are: unbaptized, OR baptized In another Christian tradition OR have been baptized Catholic and have 
received no other Sacraments 
Take time to discern the most important part ofyour life: YOUR FAiiH! 
DEADLINE TO SIGN UP 15 OCT06ER 1••11 
C-M 


Monday, September 21, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Falcons hold off Panthers for a vvin 

Associated Press 
Matt Ryan has a new favorite receiver. No surprise who it is. 
Ryan threw three touchdown passes, hooking up with Tony Gonzalez for the second week in a row, and the Atlanta Falcons held off the Carolina Panthers 28-20 on Sunday. 
Through his first two games with the Falcons, Gonzalez has 12 catches for 144 yards and two touchdowns. Just what Atlanta had in mind when it dealt for a tight end who figures to end up in Canton -and start­ing 2-0 is just what Gonzalez had in mind when he asked to be traded by lowly Kansas City. 
The Falcons already have matched the Chiefs' win total for all of last season. 
"Not a bad start at all," Gonzalez said. "It's just great to be part of a team like this." 
Ryan had a big first half, which included a brilliant fin­gertip grab by Gonzalez on a 24-yard score. Jason Snelling and Roddy White also hauled in TD passes, giving Atlanta a 21­13 lead at the break. 
Ryan completed 13 straight passes at one point and finished 21 of 27 for 220 yards, though he did have his first intercep­tion of the season. Gonzalez led the Falcons again with seven receptions for 71 yards. 
"He's one of the greatest tight ends of all time," Ryan said. "That was a huge pickup for us. He makes big plays for us in dif­ferent situations when we need him. I've enjoyed playing with him thus far." 
Jake Delhomme played much better for the Panthers, looking nothing like the quarterback who had 11 turnovers in his last 
Information Sessions on Study Abroad Programs in China: Beijing, Shanghai & Hong Kong 
Tuesday, September 22, 7:00 p.m. 117 Hayes-Healy Or Wednesday, October 7, 5:30p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 For Academic Year 2010-2011, Fall 2010 or Spring 2011 

two games. But his 25-of-41, 308-yard passing performance was marred by that familiar problem -an interception with 2 112 minutes remaining near the Atlanta end zone -and the defending NFC South champi­ons are off to an 0-2 start. 
"It couldn't be any worse than last week," said Delhomme, referring to his four-intercep­tion, one-fumble fiasco in a 38­10 loss to Phil<!delphia. "I felt good out there today. Last week, I put too much pressure on myself. This week, I got back to being just plain Jake." 
The Falcons looked to be in good shape after Michael Turner 
punt. Delhomme completed four straight passes to get the ball to the Atlanta 43 with eight sec­onds left. 
For the final pass, the Falcons stationed 6-foot-5 receiver Brian Finneran as an extra defensive back. Finneran and Brent Grimes went up together to bat the ball down, and Grimes got a hand on it -but nearly knocked it to a Carolina receiver. Dwayne Jarrett dove for the ball and rolled over cradling it, but it clearly hit the turf before he got his hands extended. 
The replay 
officials upstairs 
ordered a 
review, just to

"It's just great to be
powered over make sure the 
from the 1 with part ofa team like clock had run 
12:27 remaining, this.'' out. The head stretching the coaches and a lead to 28-13 couple of play­
Tony Gonzalez
lead. ers from each Back came Falcons tight end team were the 
Delhomme and the Panthers. A 10-play, 80-yard drive made it 28-20, and Carolina was in position to force overtime with a touchdown and a two-point conversion after driving to a first down at the Falcons 17. But three straight incompletions left the Panthers in desperation mode. 
On fourth-and-10, Delhomme tried to force in a pass to Steve Smith near the end zone. Chris Houston stepped in front to pick it off at the 4 before being slammed out bounds by Smith, who had a huge game with eight catches for 131 yards despite being hurt on the final play of the first half. 
The Panthers had one last chance after forcing an Atlanta only ones left on 
the field when 

the game offi­cially ended. 
"I guess we would've had to go get some guys out of the showers," Falcons coach Mike Smith joked. 
DeAngelo Williams scored on a 3-yard run to give Carolina a short-lived 10-7 lead early in the second quarter. John Kasay kicked a couple of field goals, including a 50-yarder. 
Gonzalez isn't the only new­comer off to a great start with the Falcons. Linebacker Mike Peterson had a big game for the second week in a row, leading the team with nine tackles, forcing a fumble, breaking up a pass and catching a punt that was blocked by Brian Williams. 
NFL 
Jets show skills inwin over Patriots 
Rex Ryan sent a message to the fans. His New York Jets delivered one of their own. 
Rookie Mark Sanchez out­played a Super Bowl champion quarterback and the Jets backed up their big talk, shutting down Tom Brady and the New England Patriots 16-9 on Sunday. 
"We believe that we are the better team today," Ryan said. "We went out and showed it. I think our fans are huge in this victory." 
So huge, in fact, that Ryan said he was giving the fans a game ball that would be placed in the team's trophy case. 
"I thought they were the differ­ence," Ryan said. 
The victory was the first for the Jets (2-0) over Brady at home, and the first over the Patriots {1­
1) at the Meadowlands since 2000. And, it came after a week during which Ryan reiterated his ofl'season comments that he did­n't come to "kiss Bill Belichick's rings" and sent a voicemail to season ticket holders, urging them to be loud. 
The fans clearly answered the call, causing a tough time for the Patriots' offense all game. Brady was forced into consecutive delay of game penalties in the third quarter. 
''I've got to do a better job," Brady said. "They don't come up very often, but when they do, they hurt. And they hurt us today." 
Ryan also said the Patriots had the better coach and quarterback coming in. 
Hold on, Rex. Don't sell yourself short. 
"The big deal is, we're a foot­ball team that should be respect­ed," Ryan said. "Sometimes we talk a little bit, but only because we have confidence in our foot­ball team." 
Earlier in the week, Jets safety Kerry Rhodes said New York wanted to "embarrass" New England. 
"Kerry made a statement, we stood behind him and we had his back," defensive end Shaun Ellis said. 
Sanchez came out throwing in the second half after a quiet first two quarters and connected with Dustin Keller on a go-ahead touchdown, and the Jel<>' defense clamped down on the Patriots. 
"It's a major win for us," Ellis said. "To close that out and put an end to that, it's great." 
Brady had a chance to tie it for the Patriots, getting the ball at the Patriots 10 with 1:48 left, but the Jets' defense stopped him as Dwight Lowery knocked away a pass to Joey Galloway on fourth down. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 21, 2009 
Quality Off-Campus Houses Now leasing for 2010 .2011 
•CWto~  •Wastm&~  
•Stldnt ~  •DistMastM!fS  
•Seolity ~ems  •2·10 lm'ootm  

•Lawnrie 
Smdents~ 

to treat yourself to some New York Hours: Style good italian food and piz2a. Sun 11-9:30 Yon've earned it. Show us yonr I.D. Mon-Thurs 11-9:30 and get 15% off your meal. Fri.-Sac 11·11 401 N. Hickory Scree t, South Ben:l We deliver S-9 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles place 12th at Calvin Invite 
Observer Staff Report 

Saint Mary's fmished 12th this weekend at the Calvin Invitational in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
The Belles posted a team score of 331 for the meet, which fea­tured some of the best Division III and NAIA teams from across the country. 
Senior Megan McClowry post­ed the best time for Saint Mary's at 19:35. The 5-kilometer time was also the best of McClowry's 
NCAA FooTBALL 

USC falls out of top 10 after loss to Washington 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Southern California dropped nine spots and out of the top 1 0 in The Associated Press college football poll Sunday, and Washington moved into the rankings for the first time in six years. 
A day after the Huskies upset the Trojans 16-13 on a late field goal, USC fell from No. 3 to No. 12 in the media poll. The Trojans became the second preseason top­five team to lose in the first three weeks of the season. Preseason No. 3 Oklahoma lost its opener to BYU. 
Washington, ranked for the first time since Sept. 28, 2003, is No. 24. 
No. 1 Florida and No. 2 Texas have held firm to their spots all season. No. 3 Alabama and No. 4 Mississippi moved up one spot in the latest poll, giving the Southeastern Conference three of the top four teams in the nation. Penn State remained No. 5. 
Florida received 55 of 60 first­place votes. Texas had two and Alabama received three. 
BYU dropped the farthest this week, from seventh to 19th after a 54-28 home loss to Florida State. The Seminoles moved back into the rankings at No. 18. 
The rest of the top 10 was California at No. 6, followed by LSU, Boise State, Miami and Oklahoma. 
The Hurricanes made the biggest jump of the ranked teams from last week, moving up 11 spots after a 33-17 victory against Georgia Tech. The loss knocked the Yellow Jackets out of the rank­ings. Utah also dropped out after a loss. 
Miami is in the top 10 for first time since the final regular-season poll of the 2005 season. The Hurricanes play at No. 11 VIrginia Tech on Saturday in a huge Atlantic Coast Conference game. 
Miami was the dominant team in college football during the early 2000s. In the latter part of the decade, USC has taken the Hurricanes' place. 
The last time Miami was ranked higher than USC was Oct. 26, 2003. That week the Hurricanes were No. 2 and USC was No. 3. The next week, USC moved up a spot, Miami dropped to sixth and the two programs kept drifting apart. The Trojans became a top­10 fixture while the Hurricanes career and placed her 47th over­all. 
In just her second collegiate race, freshman Julia Kenney also broke the 20-minute barrier with a time of19:51. 
Hounding out the top five for Saint Mary's were Joanne Almond at 20:11, Clare McVey in 20:14, and Catie Salyer at 20:15. 
No. 2 Calvin won the event with a team score of 28. The Belles will return to action at the MIAA Jamboree at Hope College next weekend. 
struggled to even craek the Top 25. 
Since Nov. 3, 2002, Pete Carroll's second season at USC, the Trojans have spent only six weeks out of the top 10 --all in 2007 following an early October home loss to 40-point underdog Stanford. 
Washington, like Miami, con­tended for national champi­onships earlier this decade, but the Huskies have fallen on even harder times than the 'Canes. 
Washington finished that 2003 season 6-5 and hasn't had a win­ning season since. The Huskies hit rock bottom last season, becoming the first Pac-1 0 team to go 0-12. 
Jake Locker and the Huskies snapped a 15-game losing streak last week with a 42-23 victory against Idaho, but beating the Vandals could hardly be viewed as a sign that Wa..c;hington was ready to defeat USC for the first time since 2001. 
New coach Steve Sarkisian, a former USC assistant, and the Huskies did just that. Locker led a masterful late drive and Eric Folk kicked a 22-yard field goal with 3 seconds left in the game. 
NASCAR 

Martin vvins Chase opener in N.H. 
Associated Press 

LOUDON, N.H. -When a young driver isn't sure how to approaeh an on-track situation, they often ask themselves "What would Mark Martin do?" 
With a championship on the line, Martin fooled the competi­tion and won. 
The 50-year-old driver held off Juan Pablo Montoya on a three-lap sprint to the finish Sunday to win the Chase for the Sprint Cup championship open­er at New Hampshire Motor Speedway. A!'ler, Montoya accused Martin of holding him up at the start of the second lap. 
"What he did, not cool at all," Montoya radioed his crew. "I could have wrocked him." 
But Martin insisted the move, which clearly surprised Montoya, was within bounds. 
"I fought for that race," Martin said. "But I wouldn't do anything. I still won't." 
Whether Martin did anything wrong at all will be debated by many, but it won't change the record books: Martin won his Sprint Cup Series-best fillh race of the season and extended his lead in the standings to 35 points over runner-up Denny Hamlin and three-time defend­ing champion Jimmie Johnson. 
"Pinch me. I am sure I'm sleeping. I am sure I am dream­ing," Martin said. 
Martin crew chief Alan Gustafson used mid-race pit strategy to get the No. 5 into contention. He didn't bring Martin in for a pit stop under yellow that was outside their fuel window, knowing they'd get a chance to stop later in the race. 
It put Martin out front at the end, in position to spoil what was shaping up to be a block­buster day for Montoya. 
Making his 1OOth career start on his 34th birthday, Montoya won the pole in record-breaking speed and led every practice session while setting the stage for just his second career Sprint Cup Series vietory. 
Instead, he found himself slic­ing through the field at the end of the race. He went from fifth to second on a restart with 13 laps to go, and was on the inside of Martin on the restart with three laps to go. 
They battled door-to-door for the frrst lap, and Martin fmally slid in front of Montoya as they crossed the start-finish line. They ran bumper-to-bumper through the first turn, and Martin appeared to slow just a bit as they headed for Turn 2. 
It caused Montoya to roll out of the gas -and lose consider­able momentum -as Martin pulled away to a sizable lead. 
"I didn't expect that," Montoya said. "I was expecting him to run pretty hard. He just ran very defensively, and I just got caught by surprise. I think if I would have would have been prepared I probably would have jumped to the outside. 
"You've got to learn from it. I 
haven't fought for enough wins." 
Although Montoya said Martin "stopped," in front of him, Martin didn't think he had done anything wrong. 
"My first instinct to answer that question would be, 'Yeah, I stopped -compared to how fast his car was going,"' Martin said. "I don't think I stopped, stopped. Maybe it looked 'to him like I stopped based on how fast he had been." 
The race ended under caution when AJ Allmendinger spun on the frontstretch as the leaders began their final lap. NASCAR waited for Allmendinger to get his car off the track and was slow to throw the yellow flag because officials were hoping to let the fmish play out. 


We halt owr 100 properties-see them at ~com f'unmilbmaliJlca1 
(574) 234-2436 
Monday, September 21, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Brown 
continued from page 24 
wanted to do well against them, but at the same time we did a lot of really, really good things and played at a high level." 
The Irish won two of the first three sets and looked ready to take the fourth, leading 17-12 at one point. but the Seminoles climbed back in thanks to sev­eral Notre Dame attack errors and two straight kills by Stephanie Neville. Florida State tied it up at 20-20 and won the close contest 26-24. 
"The irony is we didn't play our best [Saturday] and came out then with a win," Brown said. "[Sunday] I thought we played really well and ended up with a loss." 
Dealy had a career-high 21 
Ferguson 
continued from page 24 
ocheted off the crossbar in the 60th minute. 
It wasn't until the 76th minute that the Quakers were able to sneak a shot past sen­ior Belles goalkeeper Patty Duffy for the game's first score. 
Wilmington's Alex Hesson also recorded the second goal to make the score 2-0 in the 83rd minute, and while the Belles had a couple of shots late in the game, they were not able to rally. 
Duffy had five saves in the game for the Belles. In the second game of the weekend, Belles senior Katie 
kills Sunday, barely beating Phillips who had another great day with 19 kills. 
The Florida State Tournament was the last invi­tational for Notre Dame, which will enter Big East play next weekend at Connecticut and St. John's. 
Brown said she thinks the difficult schedule the team faced early in the season will help with conference play. 
"I think we've put ourselves in a really good position for the Big East," Brown said. "We're going to keep improv­ing, getting better and better. The schedule we've played has prepared us very well." 
Notre Dame will play at Connecticut at 7:00 p.m. Friday and at St. John's at 
2:00 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Wehrli was able to notch a goal late in the game Sunday against Hiram College to even the score at one on. This was Wehrli's first goal since October of her sophomore year. 
Duffy also recorded another five saves for the Belles in the game, and two of the blocks came in the crucial overtime to keep the score knotted at one. 
Overall the Belles had six players record shots in the contest. 
After spending a week on the road the Belles will return to campus to take on Bethel College on Friday beginning at 5 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at lgrabaO I @nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish perforn1 vvell at Illinois event 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish open the season with a host of questions con­cerning who will step up to replace a senior class that left some big shoes to fill. After a strong showing at the Illinois/Olympia Fields Invitational this weekend, hopefully some of those ques­tions have been answered. 
"I think there were some outstanding performances this weekend because ifyou under­stand the format of what we were doing, we brought ten players," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "The other teams brought their top four, and three of those teams were round of 16 teams last year in the NCAA tournament." 
Led by junior captain Tyler Davis, the Irish competed in 10 singles and 10 doubles match­es on day one against a field that included Miami, Florida State, Illinois and Northwestern. 
Davis claimed a singles victo­ry over Tobias Reitz of Northwestern (6-3, 6-1) and together with sophomore Casey Watt earned Notre Dame's only doubles victory in a hard-fought match against Christian Blocker and Carl Sundberg of Miami (9-8). 
"Tyler Davis has made a sig­nificant jump from a year ago," Bayliss said. "What we're getting from him also is terrific leadership. He's a team cap­tain as a junior, which is very rare here. I think he's going to really help shape the way our guys work on finishing and having a great season." 
The Irish continued their strong play over the weekend, earning seven singles wins on Saturday and four singles wins and two doubles wins on Sunday. But perhaps the most promising sign of the showcase was the outstanding perform­ance of the rookies. 
Freshman Michael Moore earned the first singles victory of his career over Hector Nieto of Miami, while freshman Spencer Talmadge and junior Matt Johnson triumphed over Florida State in a doubles match. 
In what may be a sign of good things to come for the Irish, freshman Bias Moros defeated Clint Bowles and Vahid Mirzadeh of Florida State in the first two singles matches of his career. Bowles, the thirty-third ranked player in the country, has already won a professional tournament as an amateur. Mirzadeh, a former national 18-and-under champion, played professional­ly for three years, which included a victory over reign­ing U.S. Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro. 
"I was incredibly proud of some of the matches we won," Bayliss said. "Where we took some losses was where our No. 5 team played somebody's No. 1 or No. 2 team. The volume doesn't look as good as the individual performances, but I was awfully proud of what some of them did this week­end." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
NFL 
Giants edge Cowboys late 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas Lawrence Tynes sent home the largest crowd in NFL reg­ular season history muttering about what might've been. 
Tynes kicked a 3 7 -yard field goal as time expired, giving the New York Giants a 33-31 victory over the turnover­prone Dallas Cowboys on Sunday night and ruining the debut of their rival's $1.15 billion stadium. 
The Cowboys (1-1) went ahead 31-30 on a touchdown run by Felix Jones with 3:40 left. It was the seventh lead change of a game. in which neither team led by more than six points and it didn't last. 
Eli Manning drove New York 56 yards in seven plays. He got out of a first-and-20 on his 15 to start it and convert­ed two third downs, including one on a tipped pass caught by Mario Manningham. Tynes actually made the winning kick twice; Dallas called time just before the first one was snapped, so he had to do it again. 

"Well we just knew we had to go and get in field goal range," Manning said. "We had enough time, we had timeouts." 
A crowd of 105,121 that included former President George W. Bush and NFL commissioner Roger Goodell began filling Cowboys Stadium more than four hours before kickoff. There were all sorts of ceremonies to mark 
In-Formation Session on Study Abroad Programs in Angers, France 
VVednesday, September 23, 5:30 p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline: November 15,. 2009 For Academic Vear 20:1..0-2011 Fall 20:1..0 or Spring 201:1.. lVIore int'ormation available at W)Nw.nd.edy/-ois/ 

the occasion, but the tight game was the biggest treat -­well, until the end, as far as the locals were concerned. 
Other than field goals on their first and last drives, the Giants' other 27 points all were set up by turnovers. New York (2-0) scored three touchdowns off interceptions of Tony Romo and won despite losing defensive end Justin Tuck to a shoulder injury and receiver Domenik Hixon to a sprained knee. 
Manning was 25 of 38 for 330 yards with 22-yard touch­downs to Mario Manningham and Steve Smith. Each caught 10 passes, with Manningham's covering 150 yards and Smith's going for 
134. They had to rely on Manning's arm because Dallas limited Brandon Jacobs to 58 yards and Ahmad Bradshaw to 37. 
On one of the biggest set­tings of his career, Romo turned in one of his worst out­ings. He was 13 of 29 for 127 yards with a touchdown and those three interceptions. The first was returned for a touch­down, the second was a bit of a fluke (it bounced up off Jason Witten's shoe) and the third a punt-like heave into double coverage. 
It was his fewest yards in a full game and his passer rat­ing of 29.6 was the second­lowest of his career. 
The Cowboys stayed in it thanks to their running game. Marion Barber ran for 124 yards and a touchdown and Jones added 96. Jones also had a fumble of a kickoff that led to a New York field goal. 
"Any time you don't get any turnovers and the other (team) gets four, it's hard to overcome," Cowboys coach Wade Phillips said. 
Had Tynes not made the winner, the Giants' fans might've blamed him for the loss. He'd missed a 29-yarder early in the third quarter. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 21, 2009 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
attack against DePaul from the very beginning of the match. The Irish attempted three corner kicks in the first 15 minutes of the game before junior midfielder Lauren Fowlkes scored off a rebound in the 16th minute. 
"It was definitely an improve­ment from last weekend," senior captain Michele Weissenhofer said. "We controlled the majority of the game, although we could have put in a few more goals. We missed a few chances." 
Even if the Irish missed some scoring opportunities, the offense poured in goals compared to the weekend in California. Junior midfielder Rose Augustin scored a goal just before halftime, and then put Notre Dame up 3-0 with another in the 75th minute. Sophomore forward Melissa Henderson concluded the game's scoring with a goal shortly before the end of regulation. 
"If we score first, it creates a more positive atmosphere," Weissenhofer said. "We feel like we have better control of the game." 
The Irish scored first against Northwestern as well when soph­omore forward Courtney Barg made a goal off the crossbar from 25 yards out. Junior midfielder Julie Scheidler put Notre Dame up two goals with a shot to the back of the net early in the sec­ond half. 
Senior goalkeeper Kelsey Lysander needed to make only five saves in the two games. The two shutouts bring the Irish total to five on the season. 
"Our defense has been playing phenomenal," Weissenhofer said. "Our defense and goalkeeping have been very strong. The goal­keepers have come up with some really big saves." 
DePaul only managed five shots the entire game. Northwestern attempted ten shots on the Irish goal. 
"These were some key wins," Weissenhofer said. "Now we will focus on a good week of practice and prepare for Cincinnati." 
The Irish travel to Cincinnati on Friday, Sept. 25, before hosting Louisville Sunday, Sept. 27. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 
Dike 
continued from page 24 

and received a ball from sen­ior mid!ielder Michael Thomas and put the ball in the back of the net with thirty minutAs left in the game to put the Irish ahead 2-1. That score would hold up in a game that Clark felt the team was hard put to come out on top of. 
"We were very good in the second half. The first half was a little sloppy," Clark said. "I felt that in Friday's game we were just able to scrape out a result against DePaul, while against South Florida I thought we played very well and deserved the result." 
That result was not as posi­tive in Tampa, however, as the Bulls were able to pull out a 2-1 win on a late goal in the second half. 
The match was one Clark felt the team was ready for, despite the difficulty in travel­ling all the way to Florida. 
"I believe we handled travel­ling very well and thought that the guys were ready to play," Clark said. "It was dis­appointing not to get more this weekend." 
The elements were against the Irish, however, as the heat was bad enough to force two Irish players to come olit of the gamA -senior goalkeeper Andrew Quinn and sophomore defenseman Chris Sutton. 
"It was very, very hot and humid out there today," Clark said. "I do not think that I have ever seen in my career two players go out to heat in one game before." 
Clark said that Sutton and Quinn seemed to be doing alright after the game, and will be evaluated further upon returning to Notre Dame. 
"They are both okay. But in a situation you cannot mess about and we will certainly check them out further," Clark said. 
South Florida was able to strike first against the Irish, notching a goal only five min­utes into the game off the boot of freshman forward Hasani Sinclair to put the Bulls ahead 1-0, a score that would hold up until halftime. 
The Irish were unable to get one past the Bulls' defense for most of the game, despite owning a 13-10 advantage in shots and an 8-4 advantage in corner kicks; 
Notre Dame seemed to break through 78th minute when Dike received a pass from sophomore midfielder Michael Rose and was able to knot the game up at 1-1. The assist was Rose's first point of his young career, and Dike notched his team-leading fifth goal of the season. 
The tie was short-lived, however, as Bulls senior mid­fielder Jorge Mora scored just six minutes later, giving South Florida the 2-1 victory. 
"We lost that early goal and I thought we looked a little nervous early on," Clark said. "But I thought we played awfully well. I felt we con­trolled large portions of the game." 
The Irish will next be in action at home against Louisville on Friday and Cincinnati on Sunday in more Big East play. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

Walker 
continued from page 24 
seconds behind the first place fmisher from DePaul University. 
Notre Dame runners junior Dan Jackson (25:15.0), sopho­more Jordan Carlson (25.24.1), junior Ryan Gamboa (25.30.7), sophomore Joe Miller (23.35. 7), junior Ryan Jacobs (24.34.6) 
and freshman J.P. MaJette 
(25.40.8) fmished in the top 10 on Friday. 
In the overall competition, the men's team received 24 points. Xavier finished in second place with 120 points, and Bellarmine University placed third. 
For the women's division, the star of the race was senior Lindsey Ferguson (17.33.1) who fmished in first at the National Catholic Invitational for the sec­ond year in a row. The team as a whole received 20 points with their closest competitors from Canisius College with 129 points and DePaul University with 150 points. 

Junior Marissa Treece (17.56.5), junior Erica Watson (18:94.4), Velarde (18:05.0), senior Beth Tacl (18:12.8), freshman Rebecca Tracy 
(18:20.9) and junior Theresa Cattuna (18:24.1) all placed in the top ten in the women's divi­sion. 
"The rest of the season is much more intense as we will be challenged by many nation­ally ranked teams," Velarde said. 
Though it was a large race with 33 total teams, only seven of the participating schools were Division I teams. 
"Our focus is on the Notre Dame Invite in two weeks 
where the competition level is much greater," Walker said. "The Notre Dame Invite will tell us how we compare to some of the best teams in the country." 
The second of the season's two home meets, the Notre Dame Invitational will take place on Oct. 2 at the Burke Golf Course. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Fremantle, Australia 
Information Session 
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 5:30PM 140 DeBartolo Hall 
Students in the Colleges of AL &BA Only 


APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2009 APPLY ONLINE: www.nd.edu/IVois 
Monday, September 21, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Pictures at a 68 Mark slightly hospital longer than a
Container for hyphen
serving wine 33 City on the Black 69_-cone
Sea 70 Be overrun 7 Kindergarten 
learning 36 Actress (with)
Zellweger 71 Declares11 Sounds during 
back rubs 38 1989 
emphatically14 Witty 42 Theater walkway 
15 Lunch or dinner 43 Came out with 
Down 16 Gift at Honolulu 
45 Solar Roman 300 airport phenomenon 
2 Ginger_ 

17 1966 48 Laudatory 3 Place to pull 19 Norse war god poems over 20 Treasury 50 A pair 4 Be of help to 
secretary 51 See 26-Across 5 Physicist Enrico Geithner 
6 Flub

53 Chinese 21 _guy (one blossom 7 Bullets and BBs who gets things 
8 Borscht56 Big name in

done) 
vegetable 22 Flank elevators 9 Chocolate57 Fashionable 
23 Drinking cup substitute 
60 Official with a 
10_-mo

26 With 51-Across, whistle 
roles for 17-, 38-11 Nissan sedan 
61 Tin Tin
and 62-Across 12 Period of one's 62 2008 
28 Big part of an prime elephant 66 "i" topper 13 Fire truck 
sounds 18 Double curve ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 22 Emphasize 23 Pooh-bah hired by a board of directors 24 Muslim's 
pilgrimage 25 Family groups 27 Leaps in ice­
skating 30 Like parabolas 31 When doubled, a 
villain's chuckle 34 Close calls, perhaps 

29 Jacob's first wife 67 French eleven 
the slopes 37 Static, e.g. 


WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Mike Buckley 

39 Nobel Prize-47 Like 58 Jimi Hendrix's winning U.N. "Purple_" workers' grp. 
49 Draw like 59 See 62-Down 
Albrecht DOrer
40 On empty 

62 With 59-Down, 52 Where the action
41 6:30p.m. something flying is
broadcast off the shelves 
44 Female deer 54 Where the action 63 Etats-Unis is
45 Norwegian 64 Double curve coastal features 
55 Helen who sang 65 Letter between 46 Skin soother "lAm Woman" pi and sigma 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEJIRITJJ::S BORN ON TIUS llAY: Juan Pabln Montnya, J4; Ko1•tell J<>luht'"'· 42;S<~t>hia Ltwetl, 7!\:Alnw Meam.St.l 
Hllppy llirthday: Put your imagmation to work n>r you this year. You won't fall short when it comes to lindin~ solutim1s. Tlus i• a tome lor you to look forward, not back and t\> 11:><: y.:.>ur past experieucc to help yon g.:tah~ad. Offer extras ;md ymt'll be the oue to SltrVIW. iu a Hmewben dtecompditiou is great. Your numbers'"" 2. 15, 20. 27, 33, .17, 
4.1 

ARU"'i I Mar.:h 21-.April lll): Kn.ow ah<ad of t>n>< wllat you need tc; ac"Colllplisll and !iel up your sclt."<lule so you don't fall sllon ol }'QIIt ~oah. An etuotk>ualmaucr thai C<Jl~Cef!IS a part ucr ,,.. kwod one willleaw youlookiup fur am•wn. * ** 
TAl'Rl'S iAtlrillU-May 211\: You'll be all ready to po. Ooul waste the tll<llllelltum. evcu if ~<ll!l<'<llle n1.1kc~ L1st-mitmlc chattj>!eS or d<'<'i<l<s ne~ to accommodate you. Alitlle ronl.'llleC thrown int<> rite mix will make adifferetK'e tn rbe onteome of your day's jnlmtcy. *** 
GEMINI (May Zl·JIIII<' 26.1: Too llllt<•h idle time will lead to d•srord (\>IK"<'Iltrale ""a job that caumake a dif!rnmr·e ttl ymor profcssi<mal )!oat.. You11 he: mveutive, inmgiouttiw aud tn· llliliW :lh<~~ marten; tlmt c·an a!fu<1 ~'>to:t JICO>(ll~ll <)f professional sta!lls. * * * ** 
CANCER tJw~e 21-.luly 2.2}: You may share a disappoimmcut wilh sollK'One you.,,_.., nlxml bm you will lllso be able to n!Oiivnte and ''<lmmiscratc t.'lmllgh to tum what's ne~auve inio a po$itive. Chan)l.l's made to your home will lead to a prodtK'five family proje<1 ** 
LEO tJilly l3-Aug.l2J: \Nt Ill<: pla'es and p.:ople who brit~s: yoo tile gr~at~st JI.'Y· t:unsoal ctl!lversatious will lead to au illterestill,~ coru.'epl or idea. C'bcck out all the ml<• and rcg.ula tious tlla! might pm adampcr011 ymtrpr<>JCC!. **** 
VlRGO (AO#c. ::U..Sqll. Zli: Sonte<>nc from ymn past may cause you grief. Oo not open doors that were dosed for a rea!-On. A hard-nosed approach to any p<-'I'Sl>ual sin1~1iou you face may not he """Y bm it -..iU '"' ""''""''''ry. *** 
LmRA ISept.l-'l.Oet. :U): l..o<~k to :od.v~'lllllre and plea<nrablc p:o<limes that ""' ~'<I 
IOJWatd low. l<llAAn'" nr family fun. Tht le<.• cmplt.o-i< you put 011 "''<ll'k <K scrio>" ot~1U<,.., 
tllr beiWT off ymill be. Sh<ll'iul;! with rbe people you low williJriltF yvu peace of mind a11d 
support,*** 

SCORPIO iOd.l.\.Nov.lt): Ease onto whatever you do. Th~ IMre time you tak~. the 
b.:tteryouroptions will bi.'<'<Jill<:. New applicatiouscatt be put tn !be le>l. AtnpwiU .ecner:ue 11 werutl1 of iufoml•tiou. setting y<~~tapanlffilu tllc ~"'rnpctifiOJt *** 
SAGITPt.IUUS !No~.u-~.21); One vf your ~kills t.·aullr1Jl you when dealin!! wt!h 
nei)!llb<.>rs,fri~uds or rdatiVcs. Doo'tmakt a J)romise !lw will oost y011 prof<:$Sion:!Uy. Br:i~ ~ing <Jf ltylllf to lllJt>re~~ i$ a wa51c vr time :tnd mnld cost }1111 in tl~e long nm **** 
C ,\PQ.ICORN dl«.l2•Jan, 19): Not everyone will approw of your plans but, if ot feels 
right to yoo1. pr01.'1.!e<l. Take the time 10 uavelrbe dismnce to find om exactly "ilat and with 
wllom yon are dealing. Romaucc is ill the mix. ** 
,\Ql'Ail,IUS tJan. 20-l'eb. 11!1: Sortin)\ tlll'l>ugh personal p~)lCI'\\'<lrk willlwlp yoo feel 
t"'tt<-r a!•mt y(not fumn:. Cot>-idc•· bavill!! a )!>rate .:1le and you'Jiuw 1-'Xtm casll f,,.. S<"ll<'· 
Ibill~ ~jl<'cial ymtw bi...-u savill!! for. **** * 
i>tset:s W.,b. 19-Ma!Th 2tll: YOII'U re intk"<:i.>tve whi!n II comes IO your pem~••l dealings 
fUld relatmnshlps, Ri.:»tlance is. iu the SlaTS,~ nl:tke a move 1hat wm bnn~ yon d~'"f10 the 01"' youiO'--.... Spiluding ri•ne with S<l!IIOOII<" you core for will help ease tbe<:onfusion yt,fw hc+en lt:dil!¥ *** 
ntrlhday Baby: Yon b~w ~·reat ideas and the fonmlrle ;md pra<.1icality to JlUU thinF> off \i>IJ <lit' <:>qJal.>le m!d <'<lll.ll!lllll<liu~ m1d cmt pemutde <)!Ito"' 10 ltdp you itlong dt<· way. 
fl~XC1#a•,.. "«.<•!> ~ires: t't~genit:rl.t~S.t.i':(>m _ftw t'tJfljfdnuial t.'<iftJ.u/ft.Jtitm.~. tt(\'V)(h.'e.£'*.1f1VtugeniahJMjhr Eug.ttn;fl>£ bltw. asl-nxuh.•i"Y.A:amfar.fun. 
SCHAD & FREUDE 
DID YOu Rt.AO I rll S M OIV T H '.S Sc.HOl--JIIrS T'IC. '? 
THE MOBILE PARTY 
-n-1 e.'I sA ll) 0'6 SE.fi.IJG. cOM \C.~ A Lt.W'T i=V.t-J"-J'-1 

Yo did you see the 
Thin exhibit at the Snite Museum? 

Nah man, that•s not art. It's just a cheap shock tactic that exploits those 
poor women. 

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
TOO"-.IHEM A MDIVTH TO <.OM€' 1,\P WIT I++ T H A,? 

COLIN HOFMAN 

Well, it's better 

than walking around campus and looking at all the fat chicks•.• 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

SECAE 

[) [ I I 
tROESIE tJ 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

YOU CAN FIND THI5 

I) I 
MARKED DOWN IN A DEPARTMENT STORE. 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form !he surprise answer. as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

I 
Answer: AN [I XIII XIX] (Answers tomorrow) 
SKULK TWEAK ROSARY BARROW
Saturday's Jumbles: 

Answer: What a watch repairer does ­WORKS THE WORKS 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ___________ State _______ Zip__________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS

Monday, September 21, 2009 page 24 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish beat Mian1i, lose to Florida State in tournan1ent 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
It was a long weekend for the Irish. 
Notre Dame (6-4) made the trek to Tallahassee for the Florida State Tri-Tournament, where the team won a 3-2 decision over Miami (Fla.) Saturday and lost 2-3 to No. 19 Florida State Sunday. 
The matches were the first 
two of the season in which the Irish had to play all five sets. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said her team fought hard in both games even though they dropped the second contest. 
"Overall it was good," Brown said. "Obviously we have pret­ty high goals and expectations ... we wanted to come back winning both matches." 
The Irish dropped the first two sets (17 -25, 23-25) against Miami (7 -4) before taking the last three (25-21, 25-15, 15­13). 
Notre Dame was down 9-5 in the third set before scoring four straight to tie it up. They continued to trade points and the lead with the Hurricanes before pulling ahead to win the crucial set. 
"I think the team showed great character in coming back after being down 0-2," Brown said. "We played better in sets three, four and five. 
That was huge. And Miami cooled down as well." 
Senior outside hitter Serinity Phillips had 18 kills in Saturday's match. Junior out­side hitter Kellie Sciacca and sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy followed with 14 kills each. 
Phillips, Dealy, senior setter Jamel Nicholas and freshman libero Christina Theofilos each contributed two service aces, and the Irish totaled a season-
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Bouncing back 
Team snaps two-game losing skid with wins 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame ended its first two­game losing streak since 2007 with two convincing wins at Alumni Stadium over the week­end. 
The No. 14113 Irish (5-3, 1-0) topped DePaul (4-3-2, 0-1) 4-0 Friday and beat Northwestern (3­5-1) 2-0 Sunday. 
The last time Notre Dame lost two games back-to-hack was at the Santa Oara/adidas Oassic in September, 2007, to Santa Oara and Stanford. History repeated itself Sept. 11 and 13 when the Irish lost both games at the Santa Oara/adidas Classic again. 
Notre Dame responded to the defeats with a strong offensive 
see OFFENSE/page 22 

high 11 service aces on the day. 
The Irish and Seminoles (10­

1) traded sets Sunday before the Seminoles ultimately pulled ahead (19-25, 25-17, 18-25, 26-24, 16-14). 
"I think we're all pretty dis­appointed," Brown said. "We don't have the opportunity to play a lot of Top-20 teams, Florida State is No. 19 and we 
see BROWN/page 21 

SMC SoccER 
Belles lose, dravv over weekend 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles (2-5-1) fell to No. 21 Wilimington on Friday by a score of 2-0, and finished off the weekend with a 1-1 tie with Hiram. 
Belles senior Micki Hedinger had the first shot on goal against Wilmington in the eighth minute of the game, and with some strong defense from both sides the teams entered the half without a score in the game. 
The Belles came out strong in the second half and had some opportunities to score, especially when senior Colleen Ferguson fired a shot that ric­
see FERGUSON/page 21 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Notre Dame wins tourney 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Both the men's and women's cross country teams acquired their second overall win on Friday at the 30th annual home-hosted National Catholic Invitational. 
"We have a lot more depth this year, and it was nice grouping up together during the race," sophomore Rachel Velarde said. "It is much easier to race when your teammates are right next to you." 
For most of the top runners, this was their first race of the 2009 season. 
"National Catholic is just a tune up race to shake some of the rust off because we haven't raced since outdoor track," senior Jake Walker said. 
Finishing second in the men's division and first for the Irish, Walker (24:59.1) was only five 
see WALKER/page 22 

MEN's SoccER 
ND beats DePaul, but falls to South Florida 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
Despite strong play all week­end long, the No. 21 Irish only managed a split during their weekend road trip, beating DePaul 2-1 in Chicago but falling to No. 5 South Florida in Tampa by the same margin. 
Irish coach Bobby Clark thought the team was well pre­pared for both games, and was disappointed the team was not able to pull out both wins. 
"It is never acceptable to lose," Clark said. "We were more than capable of winning both games." 
The weekend opened on Friday with a quick jaunt up to Chicago to take on DePaul. 
The Irish were sparked by goals from junior forward Jeb Brovsky and senior forward Bright Dike to pull out the win in their first game of Big East play. 
"It certainly was a hard fought game and not many teams come to Wish Field and win," Clark said. "I felt it was a good performance and every­one worked hard. We'll take it and move on." 
Notre Dame got on the board quickly when Brovsky slipped his way past the DePaul defense and deposited the ball into the upper right corner of the goal. 
DePaul evened the score in the 26th minute when DePaul senior midfielder Mark Plotkin kicked the ball over senior goalkeeper Phillip Tuttle from thirty yards out. The score remained knotted at 1-1 until halftime. 
The game stayed tight until Dike snuck behind the defense 
see DIKE/ page 22 




