the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Sophomore Roman Sanchez and junior Liz Furman were two of several students who distributed flyers outside the Junior Parents Weekend Mass to raise awareness about the University’s investment in HEI Hotels and Resorts — a hotel chain with alleged unfair labor practices. 
“Parents were there and a lot of them are alumni,” Sanchez said. “A lot of them give money to the school.” 
Furman added, “And they should probably know where their money is going.” 
But Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) stopped the stu-


Students protest University investment 
HEI accused of unfair labor practices, Chief Investment Officer says company is not ‘anti-union’ 
dents in their campaign and the flyers were confiscated. 
The disciplinary action 
Assistant Director for NDSP Dave Chapman said the demonstration was terminated because the students did not have permission from the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH). 
Du Lac, the student hand­book, states, “All demonstra­tions must be registered in writing with the Associate Vice President for Residence Life.” 
“They were asked if they had permission and they said no, they did not. They said they didn’t know that they 
see HEI/page 9 


ND offers variety of campus jobs 
Studentemploymentavailable at severallocations, offersopportunityto makemoney during the semester 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
College students are infa­mous for being short on change. 
So what to do if you need a new weekend outfit or a video game? 
Notre Dame offers many on-campus jobs, from food servic­es to the Phone Center. 
LaFortune Student Center employs about 200 students in food services, Jim LaBella, gen­eral manager of the Huddle, said. 
LaBella said over 75 percent of those students work at the Huddle Mart. 
“It’s a fun place to work, and you get to see your friends,” he said. 
Student shifts are all two hours, and students can sign up for as few or as many shifts as they want. Most students work 10-12 hours per week. Students are paid according to the University’s standard pay rate, which is a $7.25 basic rate, $7.65 intermediate rate and $8.15 skilled rate. Students also get a $3 meal voucher for every shift that they work. 
Sophomore Alyssa Sappenfield works at the 
see JOBS/page 8 

Tonk hired as director of energy department 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Former director of Strategic Planning for the University Heather Tonk will assume the role of director of Sustainability in order to con­tinue Notre Dame’s goal for a more ener­gy con­scious cam­pus. 
“I’m real­ly excited about the opportunity and that the University feels so strongly about this initiative,” Tonk said. “Not all universities are willing to invest this kind of money and resources to focus on this, and we are in a unique position to be a leader in this field and in the Midwest.” 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1998 with a degree in chemical engineering, Tonk worked in engineering and management before her desire to participate in non-profit work brought her back to the University. 
Tonk will transition from her current position as the direc­tor of Strategic Planning into the Office of Sustainability to replace interim director Robert Zerr beginning April 1. 

see TONK/page 9 


Centercreatesprograms for social research 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
The Center for Social Research (CSR) — located in Flanner Hall — is a new cen­ter that aims to help University faculty, students and staff of all disciplines conduct research on social questions. 
“Our Center strives to improve the quality and effi­ciency of social research at Notre Dame,” CSR director Christian Smith said. “As a University-wide resource, the CSR supports all faculty, stu­dents and staff who conduct social research across the schools, colleges and aca­demic disciplines.” 
According to Smith, a group of Notre Dame faculty and students saw many other top research universities already have social research programs in place. 
They created a proposal and brought it to the Strategic Academic Planning 
see CENTER/page 8 

Lecturediscussesrelationships 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
“There are a lot of com ­plaints that there’s not a lot of dating going on here at Notre Dame, yet we see a lot of undergraduates getting mar­ried. What’s going on?” senior Nella McOsker said as she introduced “It’s Complicated,” 
— a presentation held Wednesday at Legends. 
Questions such as why rela­tionships on campus are so hard to find and maintain were examined as part of the Gender Relation Center’s Signature Series and Theology on Tap. 
Three speakers offered rela­tionship advice through per­sonal anecdotes, published research on relationships and their own observations on healthy relationships. 
Senior Laura Lauck, a psy­chology major, spoke about making a relationship on campus work. Tom Patterson, a graduate student, discussed making a relationship a voca­tion through marriage and Megan Brown, a University Counseling Center staff psy­chologist discussed the indica­tors of a successful relation­ship. 
“The reality is that not everyone is hooking up, not everyone is getting a ring by spring and some people are dating,” Lauck said. 
One audience member called Lauck the “success story of Notre Dame” and asked for her secret. She cited the importance of respect in any relationship. 
“I want to emphasize the importance of balance in a relationship by showing how my significant other and I have exercised balancing in navigating our own relation­ship,” Lauck said. 
Patterson, an engaged grad-
see LECTURE/page 9 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA passes advertising resolution page 3  Women’s softball wrap page 24  Lady Gaga ‘Telephone’ video review page 12  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, March 25, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
End of absence 
As we get closer and closer to the highly anticipated April 8 return of Tiger Woods to golf, the speculation of how smooth it will be continues to grow. 
The start of the Masters will mark the end of his leave of absence from golf, a peri­od of time that lasted nearly four months. If he has taken his mis­takes and turned them into motiva-Andrew Owens tion on the golf course, then the 

Sports Wire 
Tiger Woods of 
Editor
old will make a reappearance. 
Ever since November when this scandal broke, people have displayed emo­tions of shock, disappointment and anger over Woods’ actions. With the exception of feelings of shock, all of these are quite understand­able. But no one should be sur­prised by Tiger Woods’ actions. Just because he is one of the world’s top athletes does not mean he is a good person. Just because people thought he had a nice smile during Gatorade or Gillette com­mercials does not mean he is a good person. 
The public had a severe case of the Kobe Bryant syndrome when it comes to Woods. Before the star Lakers guard was accused of sexu­al assault in 2003, the public assumed that he was as good of a person as he was a basketball player. No one considered the fact that the face of the NBA after Michael Jordan’s retirement could be an adulterer or worse. Similar to Woods, people saw Bryant in commercials supporting the Ronald McDonald House of Charities and used that as the basis for their inflated perception of him. 
Regardless of how many women Woods has been with, the public will forgive and forget the mis­takes he has made in the past — as long as he wins. Once again parallels can be drawn between Bryant and Woods. After Bryant was acquitted, he continued to be a top performer in the NBA. Seven years after the allegations were made, few people remember Bryant’s admitted adultery, alleged sexual assault or even the $4 mil­lion ring he gave to his wife as an apology for his unfaithfulness. 
The same will be true for Woods. If he returns to the PGA Tour and dominates the competition once again, people will soon forget his “transgressions.” Woods’ name will once again conjure images of him earning the Green Jacket for winning the Masters or his patent­ed fist pump. 
People can argue about what this says about our society, but in the end there is one clear truth: win­ning cures everything. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE A SUPERHERO, WHAT POWERS WOULD YOU HAVE? 







Alex Meyer  Allison Wettstein  Molly Millet  Ryan Anderson  Sydney Speltz  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Walsh  Lewis  Lyons  Duncan  Lewis  
“Super  “The ability to  “I’d be able to  “Definitely tele­ “The ability to  
strength.”  change DuLac.”  fly and be  portation.”  change water  
invisible.”  into wine.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Students participate at the Native American Student Association Art Battle Wednesday. The contest was held in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. Artwork created at the event will be displayed in the LaFortune Sorin Room today. 
OFFBEAT 
Man sentenced to 15 years for breaking into prison 
VIERA, Fla. — A Florida man has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for vio­lating his probation by try­ing to break into the Brevard County jail. 
A judged sentenced 25­year-old Sylvester Jiles of Cocoa on Monday. He was convicted in January of trespassing on jail property and resisting an officer. 
Authorities say Jiles tried to climb a 12-foot fence at the Brevard County Detention Center in August. He was caught and hospi­talized with severe cuts from the barbed wire. He had been released a week earlier after accepting a plea deal on a manslaugh­ter charge. 
Jiles had begged jail offi­cials to take him back into custody, saying he feared retaliation from the vic­tim’s family. Jail officials said they couldn’t take him in and told him to file a police report. 
Teacher arrested for allegedly teaching while intoxicated 
THERMAL, Calif. — A Southern California school teacher has been arrested for allegedly teaching while drunk. 
Toro Canyon Middle School teacher Tonya Neff was taken to the Indio jail Tuesday afternoon and booked for investigation of felony child endangerment. 
Administrators at Thermal’s Toro Canyon Middle School told the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department that the 47­year-old teacher was appar­ently intoxicated on campus. 
Sheriff’s Sgt. Mike Tapp says Neff had taken pre­scription drugs and alcohol and an alcoholic beverage was found inside a contain­er. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Friday Saturday 

IN BRIEF 
A lecture titled “The Palace of Justice: A Colombian Tragedy” will be held at 12:30 
p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
“Unsteady Flow and Flow Control in Turbomachinery Applications” will begin at 
3:30 p.m. today. The seminar will be held in 126 DeBartolo Hall. 
“Tornadogenesis” will be held at 4 p.m. today in 184 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
A lecture titled “Ancient Slavery and 19th-Century Abolition” will be held at 5 
p.m. today. The location of the lecture is TBA. 
“Food From Around the World: International Potluck Dinner” will be held at 6 p.m. today in the Wilson Commons. 
A panel discussion titled ‘Yin Yu Tang: A Chinese Home Restoration Project” will begin 6:30 p.m. today. The discussion will be held in the Annenberg Auditorim in the Snite Museum of Art. 
Immigration Monologues will be held at 6:30 p.m. today in Vander Venet Theatre at Saint Mary’s College. 
“Reconstructing Michael Jackson’s Image: Exploration of Body, Spirit and Society” will be held at 7 p.m. today. A reception will be held at 6 
p.m. today in the Eck Visitor’s Center Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Sunday monday 

Atlanta 66 / 50 Boston 58 / 42 Chicago 44 / 26 Denver 48 / 36 Houston 68 / 48 Los Angeles 63 / 50 Minneapolis 43 / 24 New York 60 / 46 Philadelphia 64 / 48 Phoenix 80 / 56 Seattle 53 / 43 St. Louis 52 / 30 Tampa 77 / 65 Washington 69 / 54 
Thursday, March 25, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
New advertising resolution passed 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) worked on finishing this academic year’s issues at the second to last 
meeting before 
turnover  on  
April 1.  
“There  is  
always  the  

chance that next year’s adminis­tration will throw out what we do,” Megan Griffin, SGA vice president, said. “But, we can’t let that stop us from making deci­sions and doing everything we can right up ‘til the end.” 
As one of its final acts, the board passed a resolution con­cerning the advertisement of them, so that they will know what it can do for them. The resolution declares any group receiving funds for an event from the board must say “Sponsored by Student Government Association” on all advertisements for the event. 
The board also gave funding to 
“There is always the chance that next year’s administration will throw out what we do. But we can’t let that stop us from making decisions and doing everything we can right up ‘til the end.” 
Megan Griffn vice president Student Government Association 
SGA. Jennifer Hoffman, SGA president, brought the issue before the board. She said many people on Saint Mary’s campus have no idea what SGA does. 
Hoffman said the SGA sponsors a large number of the events that take place on the campus but are not recognized. 
“Students wonder what their SGA board is doing for them,” Hoffman said. “So we are passing this resolution that events spon­sored by SGA have to state so.” 
Many board members said it was important for students to know what SGA has done for two clubs during the meeting. It is sponsoring a politi­cal science event that will take place on April 7. The club will be showing the film “Frost/Nixon” concerning post Watergate issues and is open to all students. 
SGA also spon­sored an event hosted by Lambda Pi Eta, the Communication Studies honor socie­ty. 
Soph omore Cassie McDonagh, said the group is holding a confer­ence aimed at studying and decon­
structing the social norms of beauty. 
A particular issue the confer­ence will be dealing with is child prostitution. McDonagh said they will be showing a documentary film on the subject, called “Very Young Girls.” The event will be open to the campus and public. 
Next week’s meeting will be the last of this administration, and the last chance for clubs to receive funding for this academic year, Hoffman said. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 

Mammograms offered on campus 
St. Joseph Regional Medical Center’s mobile unite to visit Saint Mary’s 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Encouraging women to have their yearly mammo­gram performed, Saint Mary’s College will offer the Mobile Mammogram Unit from St. Joseph Regional Medical Center. 
The unit will be available to perform mammograms from 9 a.m. -4 p.m. Thursday, Debby Kelly, director of Human Resources at the College, said. 
The unit will be located in the parking lot between the Student Center and McCandless Hall. 
“It’s a unit that travels around in the local area, and they go to local businesses and they allow women to come there and get their annual mammograms,” Kelly said. “What makes it really nice is it’s really convenient for people who work here because they don’t have to leave their job and travel to the doctor ’s office or the hospital to have the test. They can just walk right over to the unit.” 
Kelly said the unit resem­bles a tour bus but had the necessary equipment to per­form mammograms. 
According to Kelly, this is the second year the unit has visited campus, and the College plans to continue to offer this opportunity once per semester. 
“I think we’re going to plan to have them come twice a year, every year … That way, you know usually people are supposed to have their mammograms once a year, and that way they can just schedule and have them here,” she said. “It’s just really convenient.” 

A yearly mammogram is recommended for women being able to treat it and have the woman survive are much greater the earlier you catch it,” she said. 
According to Kelly, faculty and staff will only have a $15 co-pay with the College’s insurance plan. Kelly said 
ages 40 and up in order to be proac­tive about breast c a n c e r, Kelly said 
“The mammo­gram, what it does is it analyzes the breasts 
of the women and the purpose 

“I think it’s important for every woman who reaches age 40 [to start] getting them annually because like with any cancer if they detect it earlier, the odds of being able to treat it and have the woman survive are much greater the earlier you catch it.” 
Debby Kelly Director Human Resources 
students should inquire about pricing when making an appointment due to differ ­ences in med­ical insurance. 
“There is a cost associated with it,” Kelly said. “It’s not something the College is pay­ing for, but it would be cov­ered by insur­ance, so if a student has health insur ­ance and they are eligible and their insurance 

is to detect breast cancer,” Kelly said. “They’re taking X-rays of your breast and they can detect cancer way in advance of when you might be able to feel it if you were doing a self-examina­tion.” 
Kelly said although stu­dents are invited to make an appointment if they feel the need, mainly faculty and staff will utilize the unit. 
“I think it’s important for every woman who reaches age 40 [to start] getting them annually because like with any cancer if they detect it earlier, the odds of provides for mammograms then they could certainly make an appointment.” 
Women interested in obtaining a mammogram on the mobile unit should call 574-247-5400 to schedule an appointment. 
“Women really are encour­aged to have the mammo­grams annually,” Kelly said. “So if they’re not able to take advantage of the mobile unit here, I still encourage them to get their mammo­grams.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 25, 2010 
Professors discuss water problems 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Building infrastructure that is conducive to providing water and sanitation is crucial for liv­ing conditions of those in less developed nations, Notre Dame professors David Lodge and Molly Lipscomb said not have drinking water near their dwelling.” 
Lodge also said while devel­oped nations are privileged with sewage infrastructure, much of the rest of the world is not so lucky. 
“For more than 30 percent of the world there is no sanitation or physical separation between human sewage and potential 
water supply,” he 
Wednesday. “Almost half of the 
Lodge, direc-said. 
earth does not have
tor of the Lipscomb initiat-Center for drinking water near ed her portion of 
Aquatic their dwelling.” the lecture by 
Conservation, highlighting two of and Lipscomb, the United Nation’s 
David Lodge 
assistant pro-Millennium fessor of director Development Economics and Center for Aquatic goals. One was to Econometrics, cut in half the 
Conservation 
presented a lecture titled “Discussions on Development: It’s the Water, Stupid,” cosponsored by student government’s Global Water Initiative and the Ford Family Program. 
Lodge started off the lecture by discussing the link between what humans desire, and what nature produces for our use. 
“In the end, humans are con­cerned about well being,” he said. “All things that we need for human well being are in some way related to what nature pro­vides. Ultimately, the value origi­nates in nature.” 
Lodge said what humans need is interlinked in a complex web with the services provided by the ecosystem. These services are impacted by indirect drivers of change, such as globalization, trade and governance through direct drivers of change. 
Of these ecosystem services, water is the most important. Ten percent is directed for domestic use, 20 percent to industrial use and 70 percent to irrigation. 
According to Lodge, one of the main problems is domestic water is not only unsanitary, but some­times it is not readily accessible. 
“In many parts of the world, drinking water does not come from water treatment,” he said. “Almost half of the earth does number of people 
without access to 
clean water from 1990 to 2015, and the other was to do the same for sanitation. 
“We’re doing pretty well in the provision of access to clean water, but Asia and Africa are clearly lagging,” Lipscomb said. 
Lipscomb said more could be done in this area. 
“If not accompanied by improved sanitation, the health impacts could be as bad as poor access to water,” she said. 
Lipscomb said sanitation is extremely important, as poor sanitation can result in not only contamination of surface water, but problems with roads and persistence of bacteria and pests. 
While legislation and funding to improve water infrastructure has been easy to come by, the same for sanitation has been overlooked. 
“It’s hard politically to get sani­tation funding,” Lipscomb said. “It’s easy to get water funding. The problem is they are inter­linked.” 
The solution, she said, is going to involve a lot of organizations. 
“You need to provide incen­tives for private investment in this public good,” she said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 

ResolutionsettoaidHaitianstudents 
stitution. Among its proposals, the 
By SCOTT ENGLERT 

While dealing primarily resolution targets specific 
News Writer 

with technical parliamentary offices to increase diversity details, the resolution also programs, calls for more Student Senate passed four proposed to add resources for resolutions during its meet-a workshop for Multicultural 
“Not only is it a
ing Wednesday night. incoming stu-S t u d e n t Rachel Roseberry, chair of dent govern -unique way to help Programs the Committee on Social ment senators. and Services 
but it seeks to fulfll 
Concerns proposed a resolu-The event is and encour­
our Catholic mission.” 
tion to help encourage aid to intended to ages admis-Haiti at the University. smooth the sions to In light of the recent transition for Jeff Lakusta “increase its tragedy in Haiti, the resolu-new senators. focus on pro-
chair 
tion asked the University to Nick Ruof, m o t i n g
Committee on
admit students displaced by chair of the m i n o r i t y
University Affairs 
the earthquake. Committee on enrollment 
Jeff Lakusta, chair of the Residence Life, Committee on University proposed a third resolution Affairs, said the resolution on the organization of home offers a way to aid those in football games. 
need. “Not only is it a unique 
“We have identifed 
way to help 
specifc offces ... to 
but it seeks to fulfill our directly address Catholic mis-
these issues.” 
sion,” Lakusta said. 
Grant Schmidt
The resolu­tion passed student body unanimously. president
The next resolution, also passed unanimously, aimed to Affairs amend the student body con-mously. 

Kevin Doyle, ath­
letic liaison of the 
Committee on 
Athletic Affairs, 
said the resolution, 
passed unanimous­
ly, seeks to unify 
the undergraduate 
student body. 

The final resolu­
tion — proposed by 
Shawnika Giger, 
chair of the 
Committee on 
Multi cult ural 
— passed unani ­
and maintain retention rates consistent with that of the racial major­ity students.” 
“We have identified specif­ic offices … to directly address these issues,” stu­dent body president Grant Schmidt said. 
Lewis Senator Cristi Yanker also supported the resolution, praising the importance of increasing diversity. 
“So we can have diverse students and people coming up with great thoughts,” Yanker said. 
Contact Scott Englert at senglert@nd.edu 

Lecture educates about trauma 
By MEGHAN MANNING 
News Writer 
Many countries embroiled in conflict are not equipped to deal with victims of trauma, a mental health specialist said Wednesday in a lecture at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Judith Bass, assistant profes­sor at the Department of Mental Health at John Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health educated students, fac­ulty and researchers on mod­ern methods of responding to trauma in conflict societies. 
Bass has investigated trauma in Uganda, Cambodia, Iraq and Brazil. 

“Four hundred fifty million people worldwide are affected by mental, neurological and behavioral problems, [yet] over 90 percent of countries do not have the proper systems to handle them,” Bass said. 
She examined the complexi­ties involved in identifying trau­ma and in implementing the proper solutions to assist its victims. 
“Mental health of citizens fundamentally impacts all aspects of society, such as eco­nomic stability and peace-building, but is often ignored in high-conflict environments,” she said. 
Bass said the key to under­standing trauma is recognizing that it is “not a single event, but rather a constellation of symp­toms that individuals have been exposed to.” 
Her presentation highlighted an array of modern methods to evaluate mental health, and she also discussed considering the socialization of violence, where children soldiers are both experiencing and perpetu­ating systems of abuse. 
Junior Caitlin Aguiar, who has participated on mission trips to the Dominican Republic and Kenya, was one of several student attendees at the event. 
“I was really interested in how she stressed the need to do research in areas before apply­ing social and therapeutic sys­tems,” she said. “It seemed that her efforts really understood the importance of this in order to use resources in the most effective manner.” 
In the question and answer session following the event, Bass responded to an inquiry on how her team’s research is being implemented to help vic­tims. 
“We are trying to identify what works in association with humanitarian organizations, and critique what doesn’t in order to improve those sys­tems,” Bass said. 
Bass told The Observer after the event that she hopes her investigations will ultimately prove two things: “that it is pos­sible to do good research in high-conflict areas, and that not every method works for every problem.” 
She said theoretical investiga­tions can be applied toward peace-building, and a more effective promotion of healing can occur for victims of trau­ma. 
Contact Meghan Manning at mmannin3@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Thursday, March 25, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bay of Bengal island submerged 
NEW DELHI — For nearly 30 years, India and Bangladesh have argued over control of a tiny rock island in the Bay of Bengal. Now rising sea levels have resolved the dispute for them: the island’s gone. 
New Moore Island in the Sunderbans has been completely submerged, said oceanograph­er Sugata Hazra, a professor at Jadavpur University in Calcutta. Its disappearance has been confirmed by satellite imagery and sea patrols, he said. 
“What these two countries could not achieve from years of talking, has been resolved by glob­al warming,” said Hazra. 
Scientists at the School of Oceanographic Studies at the university have noted an alarming increase in the rate at which sea levels have risen over the past decade in the Bay of Bengal. 
Russians plan to honor Stalin 
MOSCOW — Posters of Josef Stalin may be put up in Moscow for the first time in decades as part of the May 9 observance of Victory Day — the annual celebration of the defeat of Nazi Germany. 
This year, the 65th anniversary of Germany’s defeat, a contingent of U.S. troops is expected to march on Red Square, a striking sign of vaunted “reset” of American-Russian relations. 
But Moscow city authorities may be preparing a less-welcome kind of reset with the posters, an honor denied since the Soviet dictator’s crimes were publicly exposed more than half-a-century ago. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Monkey continues to avoid capture 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — In the hours after a monkey on the lam fell into a woman’s pool and then swiped some fruit from her backyard tree, fans of the wily primate cheered it for avoiding capture. 
“It’s something that you can kind of cheer for,” said Amy Ellis, a Pasco County employ­ee who has become a fan of the monkey on Facebook. “Every day there’s so much bad news. He’s kind of like a little hero.” 
The rhesus macaque monkey has avoided capture for nearly a year. Authorities don’t know where the animal came from, but some believe it could have gotten separated from a troupe of wild monkeys in an Ocala­area state park, some 118 miles north of St. Petersburg. Another possibility: the animal could have escaped from an owner who doesn’t have a permit and is therefore not registered with authorities. 
Federal test scores improve slightly 
Reading scores for fourth and eighth grade students held mostly steady last year, continuing a stubborn trend of minimal improvement across most racial, economic and geographic groups. 
Scores on the National Assessment of Educational Progress, a series of federally funded achievement tests, rose in two states and the District of Columbia in grade four and in nine states for grade eight in 2009. Overall, the fourth-grade average remained unchanged while eighth graders rose one point. 
The average score for both grades was only four points higher than it was in 1992. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Utilities fight tree-trimming practices 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana’s main electric companies say no major changes are needed to the regulations that oversee their tree-trimming practices despite numerous com­plaints from property owners. 
The utilities argued in a filing with the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission that they have carried out tree trimming accord­ing to industry standards to keep power lines clear of tree limbs. The filing comes after the commission held several public hearings around the state last year following com­plaints about drastic tree cutting to keep limbs away from power lines. 

Inmate hopes for exoneration 
Condemned Texas man facing death penalty seeks repreive for DNA testing 
Associated Press 
LIVINGSTON, Texas — Texas death row inmate Hank Skinner doesn’t deny he was in the house where his girlfriend was fatally bludgeoned and her two adult sons stabbed to death in 1993, but he insists that DNA testing could exonerate him. 
Skinner, scheduled to die Wednesday in Huntsville for the New Year’s Eve triple slaying more than 16 years ago, visited with his French-born wife as he waited for the U.S. Supreme Court or Texas Gov. Rick Perry to decide whether to stop his execu­tion. 
He and his attorneys contend his lethal injection should be halted for DNA testing on evidence from the crime scene in the Texas Panhandle town of Pampa. Results of those tests could support his innocence claims, they said. 
“It’s real scary,” Skinner, 47, said recently from death row. “I’ve had dreams about being inject­ed. 
“I didn’t commit this crime and I should be exonerated.” 

The former oil field and construction worker con-fifth this year. were found in the bedroom uncle, Robert Donnell, who tended a toxic combination Criticism escalated in the of Busby’s slain sons and died in 1997. Donnell, of vodka and codeine left past year amid questions on a door leading out the described in court docu­him incapacitated and he about evidence that led to back of the house. ments as a “hot-tempered had neither the mental the 2004 execution of con-Prosecutors also suggested ex-con” known for getting capacity nor physical victed arson-murderer Skinner, who had a serious more violent when he strength to kill his girl-Cameron Todd Willingham. hand wound, cut his hand drank, attended the same friend, Twila Jean Busby, Prosecutors insist evidence when a knife slipped dur-New Year’s Eve party 40, and her two adult sons, in that case was solid. But ing one of the murders. Busby attended. Skinner Elwin “Scooter” Caler, 22, an arson expert concluded Skinner said he cut it on couldn’t go because he was and Randy Busby, 20. the investigation was so broken glass. passed out. 
Prosecutors have argued flawed its finding the fire Police were summoned “Take the time necessary that Skinner isn’t entitled was set deliberately could when the mortally wound-to be scientifically certain to testing of evidence that not be supported. And ed Caler appeared on the of Mr. Skinner’s guilt wasn’t tested before his when the Texas Forensic front porch of a neighbor’s before permitting him to 1995 trial. Courts over the Science Commission was to home. The bodies of his be executed,” Skinner’s years since his conviction take up the expert’s report, mother and half brother attorneys, led by have rejected similar Perry — under whom 212 then were discovered in University of Texas law appeals. Texas inmates have been their home. Officers fol-professor Rob Owen, urged 
Texas is the nation’s executed — replaced most lowed a blood trail four the governor. most active capital punish-members of the panel. blocks to a trailer home of To the Supreme Court, ment state and a target for Among evidence present-a female friend of Skinner. they argued there were death penalty opponents. ed to jurors in Skinner’s He was in a closet. “troubling, unresolved The state executed 24 pris-case was the blood from Skinner and his lawyers questions about whether oners last year and two victims on his clothing. said the actual killer could Mr. Skinner could have Skinner’s would be the His bloody handprints also have been Twila Busby’s committed the murders.” 

Military to scrutinize firing of gay members 
Associated Press given under oath, the plan says. damaging morale or hurting recruit-
The details were described by U.S. ment. That study is due Dec. 1. 
WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary military and defense officials who Gay rights groups say the move is a Robert Gates is going to make it agreed to speak on condition of step in the right direction but that tougher for service members to get anonymity because no announcement Congress must still act to lift the ban. fired for being gay by insisting that had not been made. “At the end of the day, service each case be scrutinized by more sen-The officials said the goal was to members would still be leaving the ior-ranking officers. ensure that the existing law was services under ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ 
The plan, to be announced applied fairly and consistently across every day, so what we need is Thursday, is considered a stopgap the military. The plan also is aimed at repeal,” said Aubrey Sarvis, executive measure by the Obama administra-eliminating flimsy testimony supplied director, Servicemembers Legal tion until Congress decides whether by third parties. Defense Fund. to repeal the 1993 law, which bans Gates has said he wanted to find President Barack Obama has said openly gay service. ways to implement the existing law the ban unfairly punishes gays and 
Under the new guidelines, firings of more “humanely” and eliminate cases has called on Congress to lift the ban. enlisted personnel who violate the in which gay service members are Gates agrees but says he wants to ban must be approved by officers outed by someone carrying a grudge. move slowly and has ordered the who hold a rank equivalent to a one-In the meantime, Gates has ordered lengthy assessment to ensure a star general or above. Testimony pro-an internal assessment on how the repeal of the ban won’t negatively vided by third parties also should be Pentagon could lift the ban without impact troops or their families. 
page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 25, 2010 
The Observer 
Business

Thursday, March 25, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Citigroup to pay for unreported loans 
WASHINGTON — The consumer lending arm of Citigroup Inc. will pay $1.25 million for failing to report to federal regulators on more than 90,000 mortgage loans that it made. 
CitiFinancial agreed to the penalty in a settlement with 35 state mortgage regula­tors announced Wednesday by the Conference of State Bank Supervisors and the American Association of Residential Mortgage Regulators. 
The agreement followed an examination by the Massachusetts Division of Banks on CitiFinancial’s compliance with state and federal consumer laws. That examination found the bank had failed to report 91,127 residential mortgage loans originated between 2004 and 2007. 
The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act requires all mortgages be reported. These reports are used to ensure compliance with fair lending laws and regulations. 
The failure to report the loans was caused by an internal error that arose after systems adjustments made following changes to the law in 2004, Citi said. In a statement, Citi said the error was unintentional, and no customers were harmed. 
Kmart settles age discrimination suit 
HONOLULU — The federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission says Kmart Corp. has settled an age discrimina­tion lawsuit involving a 70-year-old pharma­cist at a Honolulu store. 
The EEOC said Wednesday that Kmart will pay $120,000 and furnish other relief to set­tle the suit filed last year in federal court. 
The suit said the woman was subjected to harassment and humiliation, as well as retaliation when she complained. She even­tually resigned. 
The lawsuit claimed a pharmacy manager at the chain’s North Nimitz Highway store subjected the woman to age-based insults. It said the manager told the woman she was “too old to work” and she should retire. 
In settling the suit, Kmart also agreed to hire an equal employment opportunity trainer. 
CHINA 

Google continues to lose favor 
Internet giant’s decision to move headquarters offshore upsets government 
Associated Press 
BEIJING — Google Inc.’s business ties in China unraveled a little more Wednesday amid a widen­ing backlash to the U.S. Internet company’s deci­sion to move its Chinese search engine offshore in a challenge to the country’s online censorship laws. 
While the stand is win­ning Google praise in the 
U.S. and other countries, it’s threatening to turn the company into a pariah in China. 
A high-profile Communist Party newspa­per skewered Google in a front-page story. And more of its partners and adver­tising customers in the country appeared to be distancing themselves from the company. 
Google, based in Mountain View, Calif., still hopes to expand its non-search operations in China, but its refusal to play by the government’s censorship rules could make that unrealistic. 

By challenging the often tetchy government, Google appears to have violated an unspoken rule of doing business in China, espe­cially in the Internet indus­try — whose control Beijing sees as crucial to commanding lead in the tionships. But those in a statement that the maintaining its authoritar-country’s search market. alliance have started to takeover was being done ian rule. Google shares gained fracture since Monday, to “guarantee each prod­
“Everybody in the $8.33 Wednesday to close when Google started to uct, normal business and Internet space operates at $557.33, but they have redirect search traffic from good operations.” under the good graces of fallen by more than $30, mainland China to an Google officials in the the government, and if the or nearly 6 percent, since uncensored Hong Kong U.S. didn’t immediately government’s not happy the company’s Jan. 12 service on Monday. respond to requests for with your partner, you announcement about its Though part of China, comment. probably are going to have intention to stop censoring Hong Kong has a semiau-Industry executives said to change,” said T.R. search results in China. tonomous status due to its that Google’s China rev-Harrington, founder and About $10.5 billion of history as a British colony, enues were diving as com-CEO of Shanghai-based Google’s market value has and Google is not legally panies shied away from Darwin Marketing, which evaporated in the decline. required to censor results placing new ads with the specializes in advertising Meanwhile, Baidu’s U.S. there. search engine. Deals with for China’s search engine shares have climbed 57 Tianya.cn, a popular China’s top two mobile market. percent during the same portal that claims 32 mil-companies were also in 
Investors already period, closing Wednesday lion registered users, said doubt. seemed to have concluded at $608.50, up $13.62. The it was taking full control In Hong Kong, executives that Google won’t be surge has added nearly $8 over social networking and with China Unicom Ltd., a bringing in as much rev-billion to Baidu’s market question-and-answer serv-unit of one of China’s enue as they once antici-value. ices operated jointly with biggest mobile phone com-pated. And Google’s losses Setting up a search Google. A company panies, hinted that it could turn into a windfall engine on Chinese soil four spokesman declined to say would shelve plans to offer for China-based Baidu years ago helped Google whether the government two cell phones running Inc., which already held a build new business rela-exerted pressure but said Google’s Android software. 

Housing market still at risk of collapse 
plan Wednesday to help some of its market had been showing signs of 
Associated Press 

most troubled borrowers. It said it will strength as it recovered from the most 
WASHINGTON — The recovery in forgive up to 30 percent of their total painful downturn in decades. Much of the housing market is at risk of col-mortgage balance. About 45,000 bor-the improvement, though, came from lapsing. rowers are expected to qualify, the government programs that held down 
Home sales are sliding, prices are bank said. mortgage rates and provided tax stalling and foreclosures are rising. The plan is part of an agreement the breaks for buyers. Since the fall, sales And mortgage rates are likely to go up bank reached in 2008 with state attor-have sunk. And the government sup-after next week, when the Federal neys general involving high-risk loans port is running out. Reserve ends a program that has driv-made by Countrywide Financial Corp. The latest sour news came en them down. before Bank of America acquired it. Wednesday, when the Commerce 
The trend could threaten the broad-Still, it’s the first time a lender has Department said sales of new homes er economy, economists warn. People announced a broad plan to reduce fell last month to their lowest point on whose home equity is stagnant or mortgage principal when home values record. It was the fourth straight drop. shrinking are less likely to spend drop well below the amount owed. “While bad weather could well have freely. Bank of America collects more suppressed the February result, it was 
In a move that will help at least Americans’ home loan payments than dismal no matter how one tries to slice some homeowners avoid foreclosure, any other company. and dice it,” wrote Joshua Shapiro, Bank of America unveiled a $3 billion Only a few months ago, the housing chief U.S. economist at MFR Inc. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 25, 2010 
ing assistant, club staff, wait-student works there. places on campus you’re a lot is required to work at the er/waitress, graphic designer Senior Christopher Tulisiak is more removed behind the lines, Phone Center, but many stu-
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
Huddle Saturday and Sunday. 
“It’s nice, but working behind the cash register is really repetitive,” she said. “At the same time, you get a lot of cus­tomer interaction, and some of my friends come by to visit.” 
LaBella said generally the most desired place to work in LaFortune is Starbucks. He said many student baristas put their work experience from Notre Dame on their résumés, and then get jobs at Starbucks near their homes in the summer. 
Legends of Notre Dame also offers a wide variety of employ­ment opportunities at both the night club and the restaurant, including positions like market-
Tonk 
continued from page 1 
“Heather is really passion­ate about sustainability,” Office of Sustainability Education and Outreach coor­dinator Rachel Novick said. “She has proven through her other positions at the University that she is very effective at consensus build­ing and getting things done on the ground.” 
The Office of Sustainability is a relatively new office for the University, and part of her position as its director will involve determining exactly what the department will mean for Notre Dame, Tonk said. 
“There is tremendous inter­est in sustainable initiatives across the campus from fac­ulty and staff as well as from students and alumni,” Novick said. “Our biggest challenge and Disc Jockey. 
General Manager Aaron Perri said about 100 students work for Legends. 
The Legends hiring process for the upcoming school year begins in April. Perri said Legends likes to hire students for a yearlong basis, not by semester. 
“I like to say Legends is one of the best jobs on campus,” Perri said. “You’re in an upbeat environment, a highly social atmosphere with some of the best entertainment in the coun­try. You’re getting paid to be here, and sometimes you get to meet the performers or be close to them.” 
Legends abides by the University’s standard pay rate, with an increase each year the 
is harnessing that enthusiasm from such a large and diverse constituency.” 
Student involvement is a major contributor to the work of the Office of Sustainability. 
“We are continuing to refine how we communicate with students, how we involve them and how we really do our best to make sustainabili­ty as relevant and as much a part of the fabric of Notre Dame life as possible,” Novick said. 
The office employs student interns and integrates student environmental clubs in many of its projects, Tonk said. 
“One of the things I am per­sonally more excited about is that the Office works strongly with the students,” Tonk said. “I am really looking forward to hearing new ideas and what they want for the University that they love.” 
Novick also cited the partic­ular need to work closely with the Department of Utilities to a Marketing Assistant on Legends’ Marketing Team. He helps create promotional cam­paigns for each weekend’s shows and events. 
“There are a lot of different angles from which you can [tackle the promotion] at,” Tulisiak said. “It’s very reward­ing to a see a bunch a people come to a show that you pro­moted.” 
Operations Manager of Reckers Mike Miller said the eatery is a fun place to work because of the social interac­tions both with fellow workers and with customers. 
“Reckers is fast-paced, espe­cially late at night,” Miler said. “Once students are confident with their skills, they can have more fun with the job. Some 
improve the buildings on campus and construct the University’s energy plan. 
Director of Utilities Paul Kempf called the relationship between his department and the Office of Sustainability a “good partnership,” and he said Tonk is “a great hire for that position.” 
“I see them as taking a leadership role for all things sustainable for the University,” Kempf said. “And energy is a major part of that. We appreciate that they can take that leadership role and let our group take a technical role.” 
Novick said some other goals for the Office are enhancing its relationship with the sustainability com­missioners in residence halls and continuing building a relationship with student gov­ernment. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
you don’t have that contact.” 
Students generally work four or more hours per week, but there is no set minimum, Miller said. However student man­agers must work a minimum of 10 to 11 hours per week. “The starting pay is $7.40,” Miller said. “What happens is every year there’s a determina­tion of what pay increases are available.” 
The Phone Center is another opportunity for students to earn a little money. 
“Starting pay for callers is $8 an hour,” Laura Fischer, assis­tant director of the Annual Fund, said. “Callers are able to get a merit-based raise each semester, but that is not guar­anteed.” 
At least four hours each week 
Center 
continued from page 1 
Committee. Seeing the value in providing this crucial research infrastructure, the Committee approved the pro­posal and the Center for Social Research began. 
“Faculty and students use a host of tools to gather and analyze the data on which they build their social research dents work more often than that. 
Student-run organizations on campus include Irish Gardens, the campus flower shop located in the basement of LaFortune, Alumni Hall’s Dawg Pizza, and Siegfried Hall’s Pizzeria Siegfried. 
Sophomore Pete Elliott works in Pizzeria Siegfried on Monday nights. His responsibilities include making pizzas, coordi­nating deliveries and maintain­ing the overall cleanliness of the facility. 
”I love the job. I get to see a lot of people and they treat you well because they don’t want to mess with their pizza,” he said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
resources within or external to the University.” 
Smith spoke on his goals for the Center in its first year at the University, listing assisting researchers as his top goal. 
“My main goal for the year is for the CSR to increasingly partner with additional facul­ty, students and staff to sup­port their research,” Smith said. “Sometimes, social researchers need help with research design, statistical analysis, sur­vey implemen­

projects,” tation or other 
“If your inquiry is
Smith said. Research that “The Center for something we can’t require partic-Social handle, we will do our ular expertise Research was or attention.” 
best to refer you to
founded with Michael
other resources within
these scholars Clark, the CSR and their or external to the St ati sti cal research needs Consultant, 
University.” 
in mind. Its offered an expert staff “Introduction can assist with Kate Mueller to R” course. the entire associate director We dnesday process, from night. This is a
Center for Social Research 
research design to datasets acquisition and man­agement, statistical problem solving, and grant budget administration.” 
The Center assists research projects throughout their life cycle — from the grant pro­posal to final publication. It offers four core services to faculty and students: statisti­cal consulting, survey research, data management and grant administration. 
“We want to be a resource of first resort for all social researchers,” CSR associate director Kate Mueller said. “If your inquiry is something we can’t handle, we will do our best to refer you to other short non­
credit course designed to aid faculty and students in learning to use the various statistical computing programs that the Center offers. It will be held again April 15. 
In the future, the CSR plans to grow its resources for stu­dents. 
“Over time, we plan to expand the spectrum of non­credit short courses offered. We are also in the process of hiring even more staff with different sets of expertise, such as survey research design,” Smith said. 
Contact Carly Landon clandon1@nd.edu 



Thursday, March 25, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
University should not apply its mission to promote awareness union” in any way, and currently unfairly targeted,” Malpass said. policies to discourage student about the University’s invest-owns hotels that have unions. “To date, there have been no 
HEI 
continued from page 1 
needed permission,” Chapman said. “The report was filed and forwarded to ORLH, as we always do. The flyers were con­fiscated.” 
As a result of the incident, the students were disciplined by ORLH and are awaiting the University’s decision regarding their punishment, Sanchez and Furman said. 
“We understand that as a pri­vate institution, Notre Dame can do whatever they want, basically,” Furman said. “But our question is, is that really in line with the kind of learning experience they want students to have here, with having free­dom of expression so restrict­ed? The lack of freedom of expression on this campus is unreasonable.” 
The incident inspired several alumni to write a Letter to the Editor in the March 18 edition of The Observer. 
John Lavelle, of the Class of 1987, who was one of the authors of the letter, said the 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
uate student at Notre Dame, discussed the choice to get married and highlighted the vocation of all human beings to love. 
“Think about when we say, ‘You’re the one,’” Patterson said. “I think that is wrong expression. 
“My perspective as a lawyer and a graduated alumni is that there ought to be a space at Notre Dame to express these views,” Lavelle said. “The University shouldn’t be cracking down on students who express views just because they take a position that might be embar­rassing to [the University].” 
Lavelle also questioned whether the policy requiring permission was universally enforced. 
“I think that you would look at the way this policy is kind of selectively enforced or creates the opportunity for selective enforcement, where the University is simply exercising it in a way to prohibit expressive conduct,” Lavelle said. 
Chapman said the only reason the policy would not be enforced is if NDSP was not notified of a demonstration. 
“If we were not called about it or we don’t know what’s going on, then we can’t do anything about it,” he said. 
The concerned students are currently persisting in their 
because there is not just one person in the world to love us. God is the source of all love so we want to hold that unique place for God. Thus the goal for us in our relationship should be how to participate in God’s love in a special way.” 
Both Patterson and Brown stressed humility as a neces­sary characteristic of a work­ing relationship. 
ment in HEI by wearing orange jumpsuits to classes this week. 
Issue behind disciplinary action 
HEI is an investment firm that acquires, develops and operates hotels under well-known names such as Marriott, Sheraton and Hilton. The company has more than 5,000 employees, Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass said. 
Notre Dame’s real estate port­folio is invested in many proper­ties, such as office, retail, resi­dential and hotels, which includes HEI. The University assesses every firm it invests in and their commitment to social responsibility, he said. 
“They are very good. They are a very good company. Their rep­utation in the industry is fabu­lous,” Malpass said. 
Sanchez said he and other stu­dents are protesting against the University’s investment in HEI because the company does not align with Catholic Social Teaching, which calls for work­ers’ rights and the right to unionize. 
Malpass said HEI is not “anti­
“I think that part of that freedom in bringing God into a relationship is having that sense that I’m just a person, I don’t have all the answers,” Patterson said, “There is that humility piece that we have to have.” 
Brown offered factors of good relationships and bad relationships based on research done on couples over the past 48 years. 
“The union has come to cam­pus and fed the students all kinds of information that isn’t true about HEI,” he said. “Our students think that HEI is a ter­rible place, that they are abusing their employees. We are not against unions. HEI runs union hotels.” 
Malpass also said HEI had a third party survey their employ­ees’ job satisfaction. The indus­try average score is 75 percent satisfied, while HEI scored in the 80 to 90 percent range, he said. 
“I have spoken to … employ­ees, including general managers of the hotels, wait staff, house­keeping staff and front desk per­sonnel,” Malpass said. “They were all complimentary of the company.” 
In the past, the labor union UNITE HERE has targeted HEI for allegedly disallowing employ­ees to join a union. UNITE HERE has filed multiple allegations against HEI, but none have proven, Malpass said. 
“The filing of multiple allega­tions is a typical practice from UNITE HERE and HEI is one of many companies the union has 
“How we speak to each 
other, how we treat each other is important in relation­ships,” Brown said, “Rolling of the eyes or putting somebody down is poison to relation­ships. If somebody is doing this, they have got to go. It is unhealthy and it is not right.” 
There are seven keys to making marriage work, according to Brown. She stressed factors such as findings by any court, govern­ment agency or arbitrator against any of HEI’s hotels.” 
Malpass said he encourages students to pursue their mission in other areas. 
“I applaud our students’ inter­est in the issues and concern for workers and workers’ rights to organize,” he said. “I continue to support efforts to raise aware­ness about unfair labor practices in general, but we have done a thorough review [of HEI] and it is clear that issue is simply the union. 
“UNITE HERE has got to our students and convinced them the HEI is a bad company even though the evidence doesn’t sup­port that at all,” he said. 
The bottom line — according to Sanchez — lies in Catholic Social Teaching. 
“[Malpass] is going to say we’re biased and we’re going to say he’s biased, but the bottom line is Catholic Social Teaching says we should be biased to the worker,” Sanchez said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
friendship, connecting every day, having a positive attitude and recognizing that some problems cannot be solved and need to be managed. 
“It is difficult to walk way from a relationship that isn’t bringing us closer to God, but it’s something we all need to be able to do,” Patterson said. 
Contact Carly Landon clandon1@nd.edu 


The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Thursday, March 25, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 

Go three for three 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Years ago, an advertising campaign week from tonight on Thursday night persecuted him; with a love reaching 
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

hoping to bring people back to Mass and lasting until Easter Sunday is out to you and to me and to all time. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF featured billboards and other market-known as the “Triduum,” a word which Whenever we feel isolated, humiliated Matt Gamber ing tools asking the question, “Can’t simply means “The Three Days.” The or overwhelmed with suffering, sorrow MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER you spare an hour a week after all Three Days together make up the sin-or the presence of death in our lives, Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill Jesus has done for gle most sacred, significant event of we can turn in prayer to Jesus Christ. you?” The signs our Christian faith. And it is one event, As the Good Friday liturgy ends, it 
Kate Barrett 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

more or less which is why just showing up on Easter contains no hint of the joy to come. NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh meant to guilt Sunday will mean that you’ve missed However, because we can’t pretend VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz those who saw FaithPoint most of the celebration. In fact, if you that we’re like Jesus’ disciples and like them into getting participate in the worship of Thursday his mother, who grieved, thinking 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 

back into church evening, Friday afternoon and Jesus’ death ended the story, we keep 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

on Sundays, assuming that the reader, Saturday night or Sunday morning, you the vigil of Friday night and Saturday 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 

overwhelmed with sudden appreciation will notice that these liturgies aren’t knowing in our hearts of the Easter joy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

for Jesus’ willingness to die for him or really separate events, but one continu-to come on Saturday night or Sunday GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin her, would promptly find a place of ous prayer that takes us through the morning. ADVERTISING MANAGERS: worship to attend weekly, thereby mystery of Jesus’ death and resurrec-The Easter Vigil on Saturday night 
Theresa Bea 

somehow evening the score with Jesus. tion. We “leave off” in between, keep-proclaims the whole story of God’s lov-
Mary Clare Rodriguez 

I suppose the signs were just meant as ing vigil with Christ until the next ing plan for our salvation, culminating 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 

a starting point, a way of getting folks opportunity to come together to pray. in the words to the women at the tomb, 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

in the door who hadn’t been regulars You won’t find chocolate eggs or “He is not here; he has been raised.” 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 

for a while, but I always wondered Peeps to help you celebrate the first On Easter Sunday, the readings under-about the implied “lowest common two days. Holy Thursday and Good score the beginnings of the disciples’ 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

denominator” aspect of the message. Friday have just never gotten off the transformation and indeed, that of the 
(574) 631-7471 

So after spending an hour a week at ground commercially, but they remain whole world, through Jesus’ resurrec-
FAX 

(574) 631-6927 Mass, you’d be “square” with God? celebrations nonetheless, expressing tion. Death and darkness can never ADVERTISING “OK, Jesus,” I imagined a billboard-the unfathomable depths of Jesus’ love overwhelm the newness of life we find 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu reading-Mass-attendee concluding, in all its complexity. in Christ. 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

“Thanks so much for your sacrifice; Holy Thursday specifically focuses on At the Easter liturgies we baptize 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 

I’ve taken care of my half of the deal. celebrating the Last Supper on the new Christians and renew our bap-
MANAGING EDITOR 

It’s all good.” Thankfully, that approach night before Jesus died, just as we pro-tismal promises, recommitting our­
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 

ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR to encouraging fallen-away worship-claim each Sunday at Mass. You’ll selves to the humble service of Jesus, 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu pers seems to have disappeared. notice, however, that rather than read-to placing all our suffering into the lov-BUSINESS OFFICE Well, this year I’m going to recom-ing from one of the Gospel stories ing arms of Jesus and to sharing our 
(574) 631-5313 

mend — though not through guilt tac-about Jesus sharing bread and wine new lives of resurrection joy with 
NEWS DESK 

tics — that beginning this weekend you with his disciples, we hear of Jesus’ Jesus. But don’t wait until Easter; 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT DESK go to church for more than one hour, washing the disciples’ feet. Jesus’ love begin this Holy Week on Passion 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu but for much more. You won’t be able means humble service on this night, Sunday and be sure you don’t miss a SPORTS DESK to even the score with God — sorry and he reminds us, “As I have done for moment of any of The Three Days. 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
about that — but you’ll have an amaz-you, you should also do.” 
SCENE DESK 

ing opportunity to come face to face Good Friday celebrates — yes, cele-This week’s FaithPoint was written by 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 

with the reality of our salvation, and brates — Jesus’ passion and death, his Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 

acharn01@saintmarys.edu realize just how eternally powerful innocent suffering. The one who has program in Campus Ministry. She can PHOTO DESK God’s part of the deal remains. already given his life completely over to be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu This Sunday begins Holy Week with others now dies a lonely, appalling and The views expressed in this column 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

the celebration of Palm, or Passion, humiliating death, with a love we can are those of the author and not 
(574) 631-8839 

Sunday. The time period beginning one barely comprehend even for those who necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Chris Masoud Alicia Smith Allan Joseph Caitlyn Kalscheur Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Andrea Archer Alex Kilpatrick 
Viewpoint 
Ethan Bailey 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
How is your NCAA Tournament bracket doing? 
Northern Iowa killed it I'm hanging in there Very well — I know how to pick ‘em I might as well throw it away I didn't fill out a bracket 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A democracy is nothing more thanmob rule, where 51 percent of thepeople may take away the rights ofthe other 49.” 
Thomas Jefferson American statesman 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Thursday, March 25, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A lack of opinions 
I’m a little embarrassed to admit this, but sometimes, I eat lunch alone. Until recently, it’s actually been quite pleasant. Today, though, when I sat at my tiny little table and opened up The Observer to my regular source of mealtime entertainment, I was devastated. “WHAT?” I said. “NO VIEWPOINT WAR?” What was I supposed to do? I sadly turned to my phone and began randomly texting my friends so that I did not appear to be a social outcast (amongst all of my fellow solo diners). 
The Viewpoint war is No. 71 on Bob Kessler’s fabulous blog, “Things Notre Dame Students Like,” but frankly, it is something that this Notre Dame student LOVES. I occasionally find myself quoting my favorite letters to my friends, who never get my refer­ences because they are not Arts and Letters, and thus do not have the same massive amount of free time to read and re-read Letters to the Editor as I do. As repetitive and annoying as they seem on the surface, the importance that Notre Dame students place upon their obviously “correct” opinions never gets old, just like the fact that some writers think that they will actually convince readers to take their side. Highly exaggerated and/or irrelevant personal expe­rience? Check. Tireless, contradictory references to Catholic doc­trine? Check check. 
Come on guys, The Observer is just not the same without you. Isn’t there something worth arguing about? Alternative energy? The drinking age? Torture’s always a good one. The more incendi­ary and outlandish, the better. Or really, anything at all. Just so I don’t have to read the real news. 
Jodie Sullivan 
freshman 
Pasquerilla East Hall 
March 24 

Christopher Hitchens is the next Obama 
After the rampant outrage that resulted from President Barack Obama coming to campus last year, I’m surprised that no such protest has mounted against an even more egregious enemy to the University’s mission 
— Christopher Hitchens. Among the things that Mr. Hitchens has said and stands for: 
• 
Called Mother Theresa the “Ghoul of Calcutta” and wrote a book, quaintly titled “The Missionary Position,” that sought to be an exposé of Mother Theresa’s political opportunism. 

• 
Is a self-proclaimed Marxist. Not like in the way that Obama is a Marxist, but like a Karl Marx Marxist. 

• 
Considers himself not a mere atheist, but an anti-theist. He is the author of such books and articles as “God is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything” and “The Great Catholic Cover-Up: The pope’s entire career has the stench of evil about it.” 


The difference between President Obama and Mr. Hitchens is not merely a difference in degree; it is a different in kind. Whereas President Obama happens to be a supporter of policies that run counter to church doc­trine, Mr. Hitchens is openly and vehemently antagonistic toward the institution of the Church as a whole. The God Debate is sup­posed to be exactly that, an open and fair debate. If, using the power of relativistic logic, Mr. Hitchens were to overwhelm his theist opponent Mr. D’Souza, could the vehe­ment Mr. Hitchens possibly be allowed to win; though, I suggest we bring an assort­ment of mirrors and shiny objects to the event so that we can distract Mr. Hitchens with reflected light in order to prevent this outcome, just in case the debate gets out of hand. So the question we have to ask our­selves is this: At what cost to the Catholic integrity of our University do we advance our liberal education, or “illiberal” as D’Souza would call it, by inviting someone who is a vainly proud enemy of the Church? Is bring­ing someone who deals solely in antagonistic polemics really a responsible means to bring about intelligent and open discourse on the campus of America’s most revered Catholic university? 

Well, yes. 
Sy Doan 
junior Stanford Hall March 23 
Students deserve preference 

On Wednesday, I went to the DeBartolo Performing can to encourage students to attend these lectures. later purchase — why don’t students get preference for Arts Center, eager to get my hands on a ticket to The Therefore, I think only students should have been these tickets? If Notre Dame wants to encourage intel-God Debate. Tickets had become available at noon to allowed to pick up tickets Wednesday. Distribution lectual engagement on campus, they should do more to Notre Dame students, faculty and staff, but I had class could have been opened up to faculty and staff promote student access to these tickets. until 1:40 p.m. When I arrived around 1:50, I was dis-Thursday. The timing was particularly unfavorable for appointed to hear they had run out of presale tickets students since many faculty members begin their lunch Jessica Hedrich about 20 minutes earlier. They told me that I could hour at noon, making it easier for them to get tickets junior purchase a ticket at a later date. before students got the chance. I would also like to Ryan Hall 
I think the University should be doing everything it know why some tickets are being held on reserve for March 24 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Thursday, March 25, 2010 

By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Lady Gaga is a controversial character who some might say has taken over the world. Her shocking statements, unbelievable fashions and innovative music are all responsible for her stardom. Gaga’s lat­est work of art is the music video for her song “Telephone” featuring Beyoncé, which premiered March 11. As explained by Gaga, the video is a con­tinuation of the “Paparazzi” video and features Gaga being bailed out of jail by Beyoncé. 
In a radio interview with Ryan Seacrest, Gaga called the music video “a real true pop event.” And an event it is. The costumes are outlandish and outrageous and the storyline is just out there. It can be classi­fied as a short film of sorts as it is over nine min­utes long and includes sever­al scenes with dialogue. Gaga even said Quentin Tarantino films served as inspiration. 
The video opens with a shot of the barbed wired fence of the prison featur­ing credits that reveal that Gaga wrote the video’s concept with Swedish director Jonas Akerlund. Then there is the click of her heels as Gaga, donning a couture black and white dress, is led into the jail. Gaga is then harshly stripped and thrown into her cell. 
The next scene cuts to the jail yard, where Gaga is led out in chains in another ridiculous — but fabulous — outfit. She is literally covered in chains and wear­


ing sunglasses made of cigarettes that are still smok­ing. Then, in a truly Gaga moment, another female inmate kisses her, adding another point to the shock value of the video. 
Cut to another scene with the inmates strolling 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
about a cell. Who is that behind Gaga’s right shoulder, bearing a striking resemblance to our leading lady? Why, that’s Gaga’s 17-year-old sister Natali Germanotta, who makes an appearance as another inmate. Suddenly a fight breaks out between some of the women as Gaga watches from the sidelines. Then the loudspeaker comes on overhead announcing, “Beyoncé on the line for Gaga.” When Gaga picks up the payphone two minutes and 53 seconds into the video, the song finally starts! Notice the 
Diet Coke cans in Gaga’s hair. Why? 
Because she can. 
Then the dancing begins. Gaga, clad in a studded bikini outfit, dances alongside her backup dancers, who are dressed in a similar fashion. Gaga even dances on the jail bars. Cut to her in a salacious outfit made only of caution tape. Yes, that’s right — you better watch out for this criminal. 
Now it’s time for Gaga to break out of jail with the help of another pop sensation, Beyoncé, who pulls up in Uma Thurman’s bright yellow truck from “Kill Bill.” Beyoncé berates Gaga for being “a very bad girl” and then forcefully feeds her. While ambiguously discussing their plan, Gaga and “Honey Bee” philoso­phize as Gaga said, “once you kill a cow you gotta make a burger,” to which Beyoncé responds, “trust is like a mirror, you can fix it if it’s broke,” and Gaga completes her statement, “but you can still see the crack in that $^#%*#$%&@ reflection.” Deep. Cue more singing in the car including Beyoncé’s main refrain. The two instantly form a formidable duo. 
A new scene opens in a diner and Beyoncé enters in a yellow outfit, possibly to fit her Honey Bee persona, joining actor Tyrese Gibson at a table. They don’t speak but instead their conversation appears in subti­tles at the bottom of the screen. Tyrese appears to be her boyfriend, who also happens to be a jerk, so while he is up from the table Beyoncé poisons his coffee and he immediately starts coughing. 
Meanwhile, Gaga is in the back kitchen wearing aqua blue telephones on her head while backup dancers sashay around in the background. 
Gaga is making sandwiches and poisoning the entire diner’s food. She even specifically serves Tyrese poi­soned syrup complete with a yellow telephone eye patch made entirely of her hair. Only Lady Gaga could sport an off-kilter chef hat and an eye patch tele­phone made of hair and make it work. Then, every­one crunches, sips, chews and subsequently drops dead. 
Cut to Gaga and Beyoncé clad in red, white and blue stars and stripes dancing in a diner full of dead peo­ple. Nothing will stop these two from rocking out. The girls escape, but not before Gaga dances in a leopard unitard all over the car. And then Jai Rodriguez claim Lady Gaga is unoriginal. The video is fresh and 



creative, and makes the viewer want to sing and 
dance along with these two femme fatales. The song itself is off “The Fame Monster” album 
and is her 
sixth con­
secutive No. 
1 on the 
chart. 
Gaga’s 
intention 
was to take 
a song that 
appears to 
be a shal­
low pop 
tune and 
make a 
meaningful 
video. So 
what is the 
meaning of 
the video? 
No one can 
say for 
sure. 
Pe rha ps, 


it’s about 

trust. Or maybe it’s about not backing down and 
doing what you want. (Unfortunately in this interpre­
tation doing what you want includes murder). If it is 
the latter and Gaga’s desire is a continual domination 
of the pop world, it’s likely nothing will stop her. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Scene

Thursday, March 25, 2010 page 13 
Poker Night, Legends @ midnight 
After the Best of Acousticafé Thursday night, Legends is hosting the third in a series of four poker nights this semester. Come out with your friends, enjoy some fierce competition and be sure to bring your poker face. There will be prizes for the winners and plenty of enter­tainment for everyone involved. This is a great way to wind down after a stressful week and you might even win a prize in the process. The games begin at midnight, so make sure you are there. If this Thursday doesn’t work for you, be on the lookout for the final poker night at the beginning of April. 
“Up In The Air,” DeBartolo 101 @ 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
Ryan Bingham (George Clooney) is a traveling salesman of sorts, traveling around the country and laying off employees for companies that are too pathetic to do it them­selves. Ryan has embraced his traveling lifestyle, spending more nights per year in hotels than in his dingy apartment in Omaha, Neb. Yet when new video technolo­gy threatens to make his job obso­lete, Ryan is forced to reexamine his life and take stock of what is important. Along the way, he is forced to show newcomer Natalie Keener (Anna Kendrick) the ropes and develops a relationship with another frequent traveler Alex (Vera Farmiga). 
Will Hoge, Legends @ 10 p.m. 
Growing up in Nashville, Tenn., Will Hoge was greatly influenced by his father’s and uncles’ record collections. After attending Western Kentucky University briefly, Hoge decided that he wanted to become a musician. In the mid-90s, Hoge played with a band, Spoonful, but it broke up after failing to get a record deal. After touring and releasing a solo album by himself, Hoge was signed to Atlantic Records in 2002. His most recent album, “The Wreckage,” was inspired by a serious scooter accident he suf­fered in August of 2008. He spent a year in physical therapy, inspir­ing him to write “The Wreckage.” 

Opening of BFA/MFA Theses Exhibition, Snite Museum @ 1 – 5 p.m. 
The annual exhibition of work by senior and third-year graduate stu­dents from the art, art history and design departments will open this weekend. Showcasing the yearlong thesis projects which some art stu­dents choose to pursue in order to earn a bachelor or masters degree in fine art, the exhibit opening will feature a reception from 2 – 4 p.m. during which the departments will present awards. The exhibit is scheduled to run from March 28 until May 16 in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries of the Snite Museum, accessible through both the Snite Museum main entrance and O’Shaughnessy hall. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 

By TATIANA SPRAGINS 
Scene Writer 
Pop music finds a new favorite artist every other month, as if “disposable” were a requirement for hit songs. Tracing back to pop culture, sometimes defined by the continuous need for renewal, it’s interesting to look at pop music as a byproduct of this phenomenon. Suddenly, it all makes sense: the 15 minutes of fame, one hit wonders, complete change of style, music and per­sonality for the sake of “revival,” etc. That considered, I love pop music in the most superficial way possible — because that’s what pop music requires: super­ficial and short lived adoration of superficial, disposable music. This is not to say that the super­ficial and temporary nature of our music culture is praisewor­thy, but it is a consequence of its time. 
There are, however, those artists that have managed to maintain a steady and successful career for years even in the least favorable industries. Madonna is the obvious one, and perhaps headed down a similar path is Beyoncé. Making sure to keep her personal life quiet and away from scandals, Beyoncé relies on her style and her talent to create both mass appealing hits (such as my personal favorite, “Single even know what she really looks style into her music and videos. Ladies”) and her preferred R&B like? So what happens when these songs. After leaving Destiny’s Either way, both Gaga and two stars unite? I expected a glo-Child, Beyoncé went on to earn a Beyoncé have managed, each in rious pop collaboration, crazy, total of 13 groundbreaking Grammys, and and magnifi­in 2008, she cent. Their broke the vastly different record for styles, although most Grammys potentially dis-won by a astrous, could female artist in also mean an one night (she epic mix of R&B won six). with electro-
On the other pop. Almost as end of the pop upsetting as music spec-“Me Against the trum is Lady Music” Gaga. After the (Madonna and party favorite Britney), is “Just Dance,” “Video Phone” Lady Gaga has (Beyoncé ft. hit it off yet Lady Gaga) again with where we see “ B a d Gaga complete-Romance.” Her ly stripped of music isn’t her element in necessarily a highly mind blowing, Beyoncé-ified but it’s catchy video, singing and danceable, about making a fun and dis-film of ques­p o s a b l e . tionable materi-Perfectly pop. al on a cell 

And to com­plete this musical style comes an artist unlike anyone we’ve really seen before, who makes even a walk in the park an outrageous fashion statement. Does anyone pop song. 
Alas! Lady Gaga and Beyoncé meet again. At first when I heard people talk about “Telephone,” I thought they were talking about “Video Phone,” because honestly, how much is there to say about phones? And, in my opinion, the result of this second encounter is much worse than the first. Perhaps this is because it emerged almost as a sequel to an already lame song, but then comes the video. Not only is the video outrageous, it has nothing to do with the song and it is just all-around upsetting. I’m all for superficial music if it makes a little bit of sense, if it’s kind of clever, but “and I am sick and tired of my phone ringing, some­times I feel like I live in Grand Central Station” is a little too empty minded for my taste. 
Gaga and Beyoncé — it was a recipe for something remark­able. I hoped for remarkably awesome, but it was not meant to be and the outcome was noth­ing short of disappointing. Yet, once was not enough and the second time was even worse. I wonder if it was naïve of me to expect something good to come out of pop music in the first place, but who knows, maybe next time? 
Contact Tatiana Spragins at tspragin@nd.edu 
her own way, to get their names at the top of the list for today’s favorite pop artists. Both have completely different styles and know how to incorporate this 
phone. Not that lyrics have always been a forte of either Beyoncé or Lady Gaga, but this isn’t just ordinarily redundant, it’s a bit degrading. Opinions aside, it’s just another 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 25, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Sweet 16 tips off tonight with four matchups 
Cornell looks to topple Kentucky; Xavier meets K-State again; Huskies aim to stop WVU; Butler hopes to spoil ‘Cuse run 
there are some things you simply rough play in the post. K-State 
Associated Press 
can’t forget. fans braved a heavy snowstorm 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Cornell has Locked in Pullen’s memory is to attend the game, and when made itself the early tournament the way he felt on New Year’s the Wildcats finished up the 71­darlings of March. The Big Red Eve 2007 — the night his team 56 victory, they snaked behind win with seniors, goof off at got blown out by Xavier, the the media table to celebrate with news conferences, and have same team the second-seeded the students—the kind of cele­embraced every second of the Wildcats face Thursday night in bration normally saved for sudden national spotlight. the West Regional semifinals. March, not December. 
Kentucky plays richly talented “They laughed on the court, teams in the SEC, is on national played around,” Pullen said. Washington vs. West Virginia television as often as “30 Rock,” “You don’t forget things like that. West Virginia’s Da’Sean Butler and counts the round of 16 as So when you get the opportunity already was settled in his seat another step toward the national to play against a team like that, preparing for the news confer-championship and not a reason you always remember that, no ence to begin while teammate to celebrate. matter if it’s one person from Darryl Bryant — with his broken 
Kentucky coach John Calipari that team or 10 people from that right foot — still was hobbling up has a roster dotted with potential same team.” the stairs of the riser. one-and-done players. Cornell K-State got payback for the 26-“Hurry up,” Butler yelled out (29-4) might be a one-year won-point loss — the worst of coach with a playful smile to emphasize der. Frank Mart in’s short career — he was kidding. 
There is no more fascinating with a physical, grinding 15-“I’m trying,” Bryant said, round of 16 matchup than top-point win this season in laughing as he carried his seeded Kentucky (34-2) trying to Manhattan. crutches and hopped to his seat end 12th-seeded Cornell’s NCAA Now, one of America’s hidden on one foot Wednesday, a day tournament run on Thursday little rivalries resumes, this time after hearing something pop in night in the East Regional semifi-with the stakes ratcheted up a his foot during practice. nal. Or is it the other way few notches. Kansas State (28-7) Evidently nothing — not even around? is two wins from its first Final the sudden news of losing their 

“I’m enough of a fan to under-Four since 1964. Xavier (26-8) starting point guard — seemed Butler vs. Syracuse Yes, they’re still the team that stand why this is so intriguing to has never been. capable of penetrating the seem-After two games in the unfa-plays in the fieldhouse that everybody,” Cornell coach Steve “It rings a bell because they’re ingly unflappable upbeat mood miliar role of a higher seed, served as the set for the state Donahue said Wednesday. “I get Xavier,” Martin said. “I know of the second-seeded Butler is back where the championship game in the movie that. I don’t know if our guys their program, firsthand. I Mountaineers (29-6) a day before Bulldogs are much more accus-“Hoosiers.” Yes, the Bulldogs get really understand it. They understand the winning culture they faced the upstart 11th-seed-tomed to being. little of the attention that believe that they’re a good they have, the expectations they ed Washington Huskies (26-9) in Welcome back to the underdog Indiana and Purdue receive in enough basketball team, without have. Then, we’ve played them. the East Regional semifinal. Bulldogs, who face top-seeded the country’s biggest basketball all the other things that go along We got absolutely annihilated by “I don’t see where the whole Syracuse on Thursday night in state. with it, to play with anybody in them on national TV on Dec. 31.” panic about everything will be. I the West Regional semifinals. Eventually, the high-profile the country.” Martin’s familiarity with sixth-think we’ll be fine,” Butler said. The Bulldogs may eventually respect and reputation will fol-
The Big Red have already seeded Xavier comes thanks to “We’ll continue to smile and be shed this image, but they don’t low if the Bulldogs keep winning. proven they can play — and his history as an assistant for loose and enjoy ourselves seem to be in much of a hurry to “What would you say we need soundly beat — any team Bob Huggins — first at Xavier’s because this is, well, wow.” do so. Actually, they really don’t to do to become a legit team? Do around. Just ask NCAA tourna-crosstown rival, Cincinnati, then The Big East champions had seem to care either way. you have to get to the Elite ment first-and second-round at Kansas State. When Huggins reason to be confident. Following “You don’t ever look at the Eight?” Howard asked. “I guess victims Temple and Wisconsin. left for West Virginia, Martin a 68-59 win over Missouri on seed or the number next to the it’s up for debate. Obviously 
The Wildcats are a different took over Huggins’ program, Sunday, West Virginia was on an team’s name, otherwise, you’ll somebody — especially the animal. along with his schedule. eight-game winning streak and let that become a factor in your coaches —think we’re a pretty 
Calipari recruits the type of It included two more in a led by a shutdown defense that mind,” Butler coach Brad good team.” players who are more likely to three-game series against held each of its past five oppo-Stevens said. As does Syracuse coach Jim land in the NBA than work Xavier, and after the first of nents to under 60 points. They Butler is unbeaten in the Boeheim, who is trying to get the toward an MBA. Derrick Rose those — the Dec. 31, 2007, feature a clutch senior in Butler, NCAA tournament as the higher Orange (30-4) past this round for and Tyreke Evans both left matchup — Martin might have who has made six game-winning seed. But that has only hap-the first time since they won the Memphis after their freshman been wondering what he got shots this season and proved pened four times and the national title in 2003. seasons under Calipari. He’s got himself into. unstoppable in scoring 28 Bulldogs (30-4) are quite com-The Orange know a little about John Wall, DeMarcus Cousins His prized recruit and star against Missouri. fortable playing as one of the being unheralded, too. They and maybe Eric Bledsoe who player, Michael Beasley, forgot And though Bryant’s loss tournament’s lesser-known started the season unranked and could bolt for the NBA after one his shoes and didn’t make a bas-depletes West Virginia’s depth at teams. ended it as a No. 1 seed in the season once Kentucky’s NCAA ket until the final minute. the position, the team has a The No. 5 seed is the highest NCAA tournament. Boeheim tournament run is finished. “Bill (Walker) lost his phone, I capable backup in Joe Mazzulla. for the school in its 10 NCAA doesn’t want his players to for-
Top high school recruits wait think. Clent (Stewart) didn’t have The junior already was playing tournament appearances, get how far they had to climb for Kentucky to knock at their his shoes, either,” Pullen remem-an expanded role, averaging 5.5 matching the Bulldogs’ position this season when they prepare doors for a recruiting visit. That bered. “It wasn’t the greatest trip points and 3.75 assists and near-in 2007, when they also reached for the Bulldogs, who have won makes expectations soar higher we had made all season. But we ly 25 minutes in his past four the regional semifinals before 22 in a row. than unkempt Kentucky blue-still went out there and played. games. losing to eventual champion “I don’t look at conference grass. And we got beat.” All that will be tested against Florida. when you get into the NCAA 
Calipari has ruled the state this The Musketeers let them know the Huskies, on an impressive Back then Butler was a real tournament. The only thing that season with a thought in the about it, dissing the Wildcats by roll of their own since discover-unknown. matters in the NCAA tournament back of his mind: A 20-win sea-cracking jokes at the free throw ing their up-tempo identity. En Now that the Bulldogs are in is the teams you’re playing son and a trip to the Sweet 16 line to turn a bad loss into some-route to claiming only their sec-the tournament for the fourth against,” Boeheim said. “They’re might not be enough to satisfy thing even worse. ond Pac-10 tournament title, the straight year and in the regional as good a team as I’ve seen all Big Blue. Which might explain why this Huskies have won 14 of 16, semifinals for the third time in year.” 
season’s game, still on some including nine in a row. They the last eight seasons, the The Orange will be without Xavier vs. Kansas State players’ minds nearly two years opened the NCAA tournament Horizon League champions’ rep-center Arinze Onuaku, who has Time is supposed to ease the after the previous meeting, was with an 80-78 win over sixth-utation has grown enough that an injured right quadriceps and pain of past embarrassments. such a physical affair. There seeded Marquette and followed they earned the No. 11 ranking missed Syracuse’s blowout wins The way Kansas State guard were 57 fouls and 73 free with a 82-64 rout of No. 3 New in the last AP poll and the eighth over Vermont and Gonzaga in 
Jacob Pullen sees it, though, throws, lots of hard screens and Mexico.” in the coaches’ poll. the first two rounds. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

gradrentals.viewwork.com UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? WANTED, Apple iPhone SDK I've been drunk for about a week developers. Contact now, and I thought it might sober FOR RENT Do not go it alone. WANTED daniel@miSoft.com. me up to sit in a library. ——————————————— ———————————————
PERSONAL 

House 3 bed, 3 bath, new Notre Dame has many resources in SUMMER SALES INTERNSHIP I’ve got Julio Cesar coming out of But there are times when suddenly rehab/clean, so close to ND you If you or someone you care about place to assist you. If you or some-with an energetic start up company. the Club Ambiance regional. you realize you're nearer the end can see campus from the yard! has been sexually assaulted, we one you love needs confidential Must have strong communications, ——————————————— than the beginning. And you won-
can help. For more information, visit support or assistance, please call computer, and time management In two weeks It'll be the longest day der, you ask yourself, what the sum Email alexrock@rock.com! Notre Dame's website: Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth skills. Benefits include flexible loca-in the year...Do you always watch total of your life represents. What ——————————————— at 1-2685. tion and work schedule for 20 self-for the longest day of the year and difference your being there at any ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. http.csap.nd.edu motivated ND students who enjoy then miss it? I always watch for the time made to anything. Hardly Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, ——————————————— For more information, visit ND's team competition. Design experi-longest day in the year and then made any difference at all, really, LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Fenced Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898 web site: ence is not necessary but a plus. miss it. particularly in comparison with other yard, 2-car garage. Security. Near Homes, Apartments, Offices Send resume to ——————————————— men's careers...But tonight... ND. 262-332-0015. Affordable and Relaible http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu mmurtaghm@aol.com The goose is loose. tonight! ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Thursday, March 25, 2010 page 15 
Women’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team previous 
1 Northwestern 1 2 UCLA 4 3 NOTRE DAME 3 4 North Carolina 2 5 Florida 6 6 Michigan 7 7 Duke 8 8 California 5 9 Baylor 9 10 Clemson 10 11 Stanford 14 12 Tennessee 11 13 Southern California 12 14 Georgia 17 15 Florida State 13 16 Washington 18 17 Arkansas 15 18 Miami 16 19 VCU NR 20 South Carolina NR 21 South Florida 20 22 Mississippi NR 23 DePaul 24 24 Yale NR 25 Vanderbilt 19 
Men’s Division I Track USTFCCCA Poll 
team  previous  
1  Florida  2  
2  Oregon  3  
3  Texas A&M  1  
4  Arizona State  5  
5  LSU  4  
6  Texas Tech  7  
7  Minnesota  12  
8  Arkansas  6  
9  Florida State  14  
10  Virginia Tech  8  
11  Nebraska  11  
12  Indiana  10  
13  New Mexico  22  
14  Penn State  13  
15  Oklahoma  9  
16  California  16  
17  Auburn  18  
18  Georgia  24  
19  Northern Arizona  17  
20  Stanford  15  
21  Arizona  21  
22  Baylor  19  
23  Kentucky  NR  
24  Texas  25  
25  Mississippi  23  




around the dial 
NBA Basketball 
Heat at Bulls 8 p.m., TNT 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
No. 12 Cornell vs. No. 1 Kentucky 
9:57 p.m., CBS 
MLB 


Former MLB star Gooden arrested for DUI 
Associated Press 
FRANKLIN LAKES, N.J. — Former Major League Baseball star Dwight Gooden has been charged with driving under the influence of drugs and leaving the scene of an accident. 
The former pitcher for the New York Mets and New York Yankees had a child in his vehicle at the time of the two-vehicle crash around 9 a.m. Tuesday, Franklin Lakes police Capt. Joseph Seltenrich said. 
Police wouldn’t say whose child it was, but they said no one was hurt. 
Gooden also was charged with child endangerment and motor vehicle violations, authorities said. They would-n’t release details, including the type of drugs. 
Gooden, 45, was released on his own recognizance until a municipal court hearing. It was unclear whether Gooden, who has waged a well-publi­cized battle with alcohol and drugs, including cocaine, had an attorney. 
The driver of the other car, Ronald Schmidt, of Franklin Lakes, said he recognized Gooden right away. 
“I looked at him, and I knew it was Dwight Gooden,” Schmidt told WABC-TV in New York. “I think he was surprised I recognized him, (and) he shook my hand.” 
Gooden, nicknamed Doc Gooden and Dr. K because of his phenomenal strikeout numbers early in his career, 
IN BRIEF 
Probation extended six months for Orioles’ Tejada 
WASHINGTON — Baltimore Orioles third baseman Miguel Tejada will have to remain on probation for another six months unless he completes his required community service before then. 
Tejada was sentenced last year to one year of probation, 100 hours of community service and received a $5,000 fine for misleading Congress about an ex-teammate’s use of per­formance-enhancing drugs. 
Tejada’s probation had been set to expire Thursday. However, prosecu­tors say Tejada still has 44 hours of community service to complete. 
At a hearing in federal court in Washington on Wednesday, Magistrate Judge Alan Kay extended the proba­tion for six months. If Tejada com­pletes the remaining service hours sooner, his probation officer will rec­ommend ending the probation early. 

had served as a senior vice president with the minor league Newark Bears baseball team, which plays in the Atlantic League. But he left in November 2009 when the Mets invited him to join them at spring training, an offer he ultimately turned down. 
“He did great things while he was here,” said Tom Cetnar, the Bears’ senior vice president. “We’re very sad­dened by the reports we’re hearing. We don’t have any details on what happened. Doc did right by us and the city of Newark.” 
Mets spokesman Jay Horowitz said the team “was aware of the situation,” but he declined to comment further. 
Gooden’s dominant pitching helped lead the Mets to a World Series title in 1986 and another National League East crown in ‘88, and he also was a member of the champi­onship Yankees teams of 1996 and 2000. After making his major league debut in 1984 at the age of 19, he went on to win the Rookie of the Year award that season and even­tually won 194 games over his 17-year career, which includ­ed a no-hitter for the Yankees in 1996. 
Yankees manager Joe Girardi, who played with Gooden and caught his no-hit­ter, said he hoped everything was OK with his former team­mate. 
“Your heart goes out to him,” Girardi said in Tampa, Fla. “He was a great team­mate. 
Twins sign lefty reliever Mahay to minor league deal 
FORT MYERS, Fla. — Left-hander Ron Mahay and the Minnesota Twins have agreed to a minor league con­tract. 
Mahay was cut by the Kansas City Royals with a 4.79 ERA in August, then signed with the Twins and had a 1-0 record and 2.00 ERA in nine innings with eight strikeouts and three walks. He made three appearances in the playoffs against the Yankees, allowing one run in 1 2-3 innings. 
The Twins are reworking their bullpen following Joe Nathan’s season-ending Tommy John elbow injury, scheduled for Friday by Dr. David Altchek, a team physician for the New York Mets. 
Mahay might be able to provide depth. Left-hander Glen Perkins, a candidate for a long relief role, is out for at least a few days because of a strained back. The 38-year-old Mahay is 26-11 with a 
3.86 ERA and four saves with eight teams in 13 major league seasons. 

Woods plans to speak to reporters before the Masters 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Tiger Woods will speak before he plays in the Masters. Woods is scheduled to hold his first press conference in nearly five months at 2 
p.m. on Monday, April 5, according to a tentative interview schedule that Augusta National released Wednesday. It will be his first press conference in nearly five months, and his first time fac­ing a room full of reporters since he crashed his SUV into a tree on Nov. 27, setting off shocking revelations of ram­pant infidelity. 
The Masters only recently began con­ducting a press conference on Monday of tournament week, usually a player with only moderate news interest because most of the media isn’t there yet. 
Woods is the only player scheduled for an interview that day. Given the sensa­tional nature of his downfall, what he says could trump the NCAA basketball championship game held later that night. 
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 25, 2010 
page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 25, 2010 
NFL 

Sudden-death format tweaked for playoffs 

Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Losing the coin toss for overtime in the playoffs might be a little less painful next season. 
Far more swiftly than anyone predicted, including the competi­tion committee that made the recommendation, the NFL changed its overtime rules for postseason games Tuesday. Starting with the 2010 season, if a team wins the OT coin toss and then kicks a field goal, the other team gets the ball. If the game becomes tied again after that next series, play will continue under the current sudden-death rules. 
If the team winning the toss immediately scores a touch­down, however, the game is over. 
Team owners voted 28-4 on Tuesday in favor of the proposal at the NFL meetings, with Minnesota, Buffalo, Cincinnati and Baltimore opposing the change. 
“We knew it would be a hot-button issue when we got here,’’ Indianapolis Colts president Bill Polian said. 
Its passage was helped by commissioner Roger Goodell’s support, and by a spate of statis­tics indicating the coin toss had become too prominent in deter­mining OT winners. 
Since 1994, the team that won the overtime coin toss won the game 34 percent of the time on the first possession. Overall, the team that correctly called the coin toss won overtime games nearly 60 percent of the time in the last 15 years, or since kick­offs were moved back 5 yards to the 30. 
Minnesota lost last season’s NFL championship game in overtime to New Orleans. The Saints won the toss, drove down-field and kicked a field goal to win. 
“I really believe the more you talk about the issue and see the stats and the change in our game, the more you see need for a change (in overtime),’’ said Atlanta Falcons president Rich McKay, co-chairman of the com­petition committee. McKay and Polian, a member of the commit­tee, cited the improvement in accuracy and distance for kick­ers as a major reason for the statistical differences. “Modified sudden death is an opportunity to make a pretty good rule ... even better. Statistically, it need­ed to change. It wasn’t produc­ing the ‘fairest result.’’’ 
There was no consideration of ditching sudden-death for anoth­er OT system. And while the new rule applies only for postseason games, McKay said even that could change. Several owners expressed interest in further dis­cussions at their May meetings in Dallas. 
“Our thought is to take our time and study it a bit and make sure everyone understands the implications there would be for that,’’ McKay said. 
Neither McKay nor Polian believes the Vikings-Saints game had much of a role in the vote to modify the rule. 
“That’s interesting,’’ McKay said. “One of the teams that voted against was in the game and, last I checked, I don’t think they won.’’ 
NFL 

Owners change rules for vulnerable players 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — NFL play­ers should be safer during games thanks to several rules changes passed at the league meetings. They also might be playing longer in regular-sea­son overtimes. 
The NFL passed rules Wednesday to further protect defenseless players, including ball carriers who lose their hel­met during a play. Seven of eight overall rules proposals were adopted, then several owners said they also expect the modified overtime for the playoffs that passed the previ­ous day to be revisited in May to include the regular season. 
“It’s a better system, so why not have a better system every game?” Philadelphia Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said of expanding the new OT rule that allows a team losing the coin toss and allowing a field goal on the first series to then get a possession. 
New York Giants owner John Mara added he expects discus­sion and possibly a vote on using the new OT system to occur at the owners meetings in Dallas in May. The change was proposed only for the postsea­son by the competition commit­tee and was passed 28-4 Tuesday. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell said the league wants to meet with the players and the net­works for some input and fur­ther discuss the ramifications of expanding the OT change. 
“We had a proposal for the postseason, we passed that with the understanding that it’ll be discussed for the regular sea­son,” he said. 
Goodell also mentioned scheduling only intradivision games on the final weekend of the season, and placing many such games in Week 16, as well. He said at the end of last season he was concerned about teams not playing their regulars after clinching titles and is hopeful such scheduling would help avoid that. 
The 2010 schedule will be released in April. 
The key rules change for player safety bars a defenseless player from being hit in the head or neck area by an oppo­nent who launches himself and uses his helmet, shoulder or forearm to make contact. Previously, those kind of tackles were banned against receivers who couldn’t protect them­selves, but now it will apply to everyone. 

Thursday, March 25, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 18 
MLS 
League opens newest year facing challenges 
Associated Press 
Labor strife is resolved, the league’s reigning MVP and per­haps best team reside near the glitz of Hollywood, a new $200 million stadium is open in the league’s largest market and the 16th franchise is about to debut. 
Seems everything is going great for Major League Soccer, right? 
Well, not quite everything. 
A potentially crippling strike was adverted when the players union and owners agreed on a new five-year labor contract last weekend. 
But the league begins 2010 with its biggest name, David Beckham, perhaps on the shelf for the entire year because of injury, its second-biggest, Cuauhtemoc Blanco, returning to Mexico, and just two teams that turned a profit a year ago. 
The ability of a league entering its 15th season to avoid a work stoppage was crucial to building on the momentum the MLS has gained in recent years. Sparkling debuts in Seattle and Toronto — the only two profitable teams from 2009 — along with a deep­er talent pool and some impor­tant international signings have boosted the league’s profile. 
The old collective-bargaining agreement expired on Feb. 25 after a pair of brief extensions and talks were at a stalemate earlier this month when George 
H. Cohen, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, was brought in to help make headway. Players wanted free agency, while owners were steadfastly opposed to anything but the single-entity structure for all contracts the league has used since its inception put his return to Los Angeles in question. Beckham’s recovery time is expected to be about six months. 
“He’s sacrificed, I think, more than anybody in the world to have a chance at playing in a World Cup,” said Los Angeles teammate Landon Donovan. “When you do that and some­thing like this happens, it’s awful.” 
Donovan was the league MVP a season ago and returns to Los Angeles after a highly successful loan with Everton in the English Premier League. Even without Beckham in the midfield, the Galaxy could be the favorite in the extremely deep Western Conference. 
Philadelphia will be trying to live up to the success of Seattle and Toronto, whose debut sea­sons redefined the league’s expectation for a new franchise. Philadelphia already has its own stadium, the 18,500-seat PPL Park on the banks of the Delaware River that makes its debut in late June. The Union will play eight of its first 10 games on the road until PPL Park is ready. 
The Red Bulls make their home in the league’s other new stadium. The $200 million two-deck oval debuted with an exhi­bition last weekend and league officials immediately proclaimed it the nation’s finest soccer-spe­cific stadium. 
Now that the nation’s largest market has it’s own soccer gem, putting a winning product on the field would help. The Red Bulls hope to add a star later this year. Barcelona’s Thierry Henry and Real Madrid’s Raul Gonzalez 
often are men­
tioned as possi­
bilities. 
in 1996. The Red Bulls 
“I don’t think you can 
The owners finished last 
truly fnd any
won out when it season with a came to free situation where a work league-worst agency, but play-five wins and 
stoppage is going to be
ers gained just 21 points. 
benefcial.” 
increased rights, Columbus is better minimum likely to be the salaries and Kasey Keller class of the guaranteed con-E a s t e r n
Sounders goalkeeper 
tracts for about 60 percent of the players. 
“I don’t think you can truly find any situation where a work stoppage is going to be beneficial,” Seattle goal­keeper Kasey Keller said. “I can see how it got to a point where there were a couple of points that maybe it could have come down to that on both sides. In this situation both sides recog­nized that and made the changes that needed to be changed on that.” 
With labor peace, the league kicks off Thursday night when Seattle hosts expansion Philadelphia. Other games the first week are: Colorado at Chivas USA; Toronto at Columbus; Houston at FC Dallas; Chicago at New York in the regu­lar season debut of Red Bull Arena; D.C. United at Kansas City; league champ Real Salt Lake at San Jose; and New England at Los Angeles. 
The Galaxy is the team every­one will be keeping an eye on early in the season. They weren’t expected to have Beckham until after the World Cup anyway. But his torn left Achilles’ tendon, suf­fered while playing for AC Milan, ended his hopes of playing for England in the World Cup and Conference 
again after win­
ning its second 
consecutive Supporters’ Shield in 2009. The Crew’s 49 points were one ahead of Los Angeles and Houston, but Columbus was ousted in the first round of the playoffs by Real Salt Lake. 
The Crew’s loss seemed like a fluky upset. That was until RSL beat Chicago in the Eastern Conference final and then won a classic MLS Cup championship, beating Los Angeles 5-4 on penalty kicks to win its first title. 
RSL should be among the con­tenders in the West with dynamic young forward Robbie Finley and veteran midfielder Kyle Beckerman, along with the addi­tion of Costa Rican forward Alvaro Saborio on a loan from a Swiss Super League team 
Houston was the equal of Los Angeles in 2009, but must find answers in the midfield for the loss of Stuart Holden and Ricardo Clark, who both signed overseas. 
Seattle will again be the most hostile place in the league to play with 36,000 expected for every home game, but it may not mat­ter if the Sounders don’t find a way to score more goals and take pressure off 40-year-old goal­keeper Kasey Keller. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

OSU hopes to avoid upset 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — When Northern Iowa crumpled up and tossed America’s brackets in the trash by knocking off top-seeded Kansas last week, it figured to benefit someone. 
The Ohio State Buckeyes, the No. 2 seed in the Midwest Regional, hope it works to their advantage somewhere down the road. 
For now, however, they have their hands full with sixth-seeded Tennessee in the round of 16 on Friday night in St. Louis. 
“We definitely thought it was crazy that it happened,” star guard Evan Turner said of the Jayhawks’ shocking 69-67 upset loss in the second round. “But it kind of got us geared into thinking it can happen to anybody. Definitely, anybody can lose. We just really focused on ourselves. We weren’t like, ‘Yes! Kansas is out!”’ 
With only 16 teams left, there aren’t any pretenders. Ninth-seeded Northern Iowa meets No. 5 Michigan State in the other half of the St. Louis bracket. 
Still, Ohio State coach Thad Matta conceded that the Jayhawks’ absence might come to mind if his team makes it to the regional final. 
“If you get to that position on Sunday, maybe you allow yourself to say, ‘Kansas isn’t here,”’ he said Wednesday. “But you’re still playing a team that beat Kansas, or the team that beat the team that beat Kansas. So they have to be pretty good, too.” 
And the Buckeyes know they can’t afford to worry about what’s going on elsewhere. 

“If you’re going to win a national title, you’ve got to beat the best of the best,” Turner said. “We just have to take care of business. Northern Iowa played a great game. They showed up for 40 minutes and got the job done.” 
Kansas’ defeat is a caution­ary tale for most of the top teams. That could have been US, they’re thinking, just Tennessee led by 17 points at halftime, only to have Ohio State — led by freshmen Greg Oden and Mike Conley Jr. — roar back to win 85-84. 
“I remember saying to myself at halftime, we’ve got to get this thing under 10 with 10 minutes to go,” Matta said. “And it was under 10 with 3 minutes gone in the (second) half.” 
David Lighty, a freshman sub on that Ohio State team and a 
happy to have survived the first weekend of the tournament. 
So far, Ohio State has had blinders on in the NCAAs. 
“Our team’s been really good at that so far,” shooting guard Jon Diebler said. “Because with what has hap­pened in the front -line star on this one, said that comeback

“Because with what 
win provided has happened in the a valuable 
tournament, anyone lesson. “As long as 
can beat anyone on 
you stick to any given night.” the system, and believe, and go out 
Jon Diebler 
and play 

Ohio State guard 
hard, any-

tournament, anyone can beat anybody on any given night. That doesn’t mean that Northern Iowa is a better team than Kansas, but that night they were. So, again, we know we have a great opportunity right now, but at the same time we have a great team that we have to play against to get there.” 
Much like the past couple of months, the Buckeyes appear to be calm and loose headed into their fourth game with the Volunteers in the last four sea­sons. The two teams battled it out in a classic regional semifi­nal game during the Buckeyes’ run to the national champi­onship game in 2007. 
thing is pos­
sible,” he said. “It’s not over until it’s over. You’re not going to have time left to sulk and be wor­ried about, ‘Oh my goodness, we’re down 20!’ and lose your composure and be nervous. That’s how you come back from being down so much.” 
The next meeting will take place at the Edward Jones Dome, with Northern Iowa try­ing to continue its remarkable march against Michigan State in the nightcap. 
Matta joked about the Buckeyes getting ready to play in such a huge venue. 
Referring to Ohio State’s 105,000-seat football stadium, he cracked, “We practiced over in the ‘Shoe today.” 


page 19 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 25, 2010 
NBA 

Hawks win on Smith’s buzzer-beating dunk 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Josh Smith swooped in to slam through Joe Johnson’s missed shot just ahead of the buzzer and the Atlanta Hawks finally beat the Orlando Magic, clinching a third straight trip to the playoffs with an 86-84 victory Wednesday night. 
The Hawks bounced back from an early 15-2 deficit and overcame going 8:45 in the fourth quarter without a field goal against a division rival that had routed them three times this season. For Atlanta, it came down to the final shot of regulation for the fifth straight game. 
After Vince Carter hit a long 3-pointer with 9.9 seconds left to tie it at 84, the Hawks rushed down the court to set up Johnson for the potential win­ning shot. He drove the baseline and put up a one-hander, which bounced off the far side of the rim. 
But the Magic failed to block out Smith, who soared through the air for a slam just before the red light went on. The offi­cials checked the replay just to be sure — it showed Smith dunking it with 0.01 seconds remaining. 
The teams combined for only nine baskets in the final period, with Atlanta enduring a drought that didn’t end until Smith hit a baseline jumper with 1:38 remaining and the shot clock running down. Orlando, after hitting six of its first 10 shots, finished 27 of 72 for a dismal 38 percent. 
Carter led Orlando with 20 points, while Dwight Howard chipped in with another mon­ster performance: 19 points and a season-high 24 rebounds. Johnson led six Atlanta players in double figures with 17 points, while Smith chipped in with 15. 
Atlanta thought it had wrapped up a long-expected trip to the postseason with an overtime victory against San Antonio on Sunday night. Then, an extremely remote scenario was discovered that could have kept the Hawks out: a possible four-way tie for the final three spots, with Atlanta losing on a tiebreaker. 
But everyone knew it was just a matter of time. Besides, the Hawks have bigger goals than just making the playoffs, such as getting farther than they did a year ago, when Cleveland swept them in the second round. Atlanta had hoped to make a run at Orlando for the Southeast Division title, but the Hawks will have to make up a 3 1/2 -game deficit with only 10 games remaining. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 25, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Mountaineers confdent despite Bryant’s injury 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. — West Virginia’s Da’Sean Butler already was settled in his seat preparing for the news conference to begin while teammate Darryl Bryant — with his broken right foot — still was hobbling up the stairs of the riser. 
“Hurry up,” Butler yelled out with a playful smile to emphasize he was kidding. 
“I’m trying,” Bryant said, laugh­ing as he carried his crutches and hopped to his seat on one foot Wednesday, a day after hearing something pop in his foot during practice. 
Evidently nothing — not even the sudden news of losing their starting point guard — seemed capable of penetrating the seem­ingly unflappable upbeat mood of the second-seeded Mountaineers (29-6) a day before they faced the upstart 11th-seeded Washington Huskies (26-9) in the East Regional semifinal. 
“I don’t see where the whole panic about everything will be. I think we’ll be fine,” Butler said. “We’ll continue to smile and be loose and enjoy ourselves because this is, well, wow.” 
The Big East champions had reason to be confident. Following a 68-59 win over Missouri on Sunday, West Virginia was on an eight-game winning streak and led by a shutdown defense that held each of its past five opponents to under 60 points. They feature a clutch senior in Butler, who has made six game-winning shots this season and proved unstoppable in scoring 28 against Missouri. 
And though Bryant’s loss depletes West Virginia’s depth at the position, the team has a capa­ble backup in Joe Mazzulla. The junior already was playing an expanded role, averaging 5.5 points and 3.75 assists and nearly 25 minutes in his past four games. 
All that will be tested against the Huskies, on an impressive roll of their own since discovering their up-tempo identity. En route to claiming only their second Pac-10 tournament title, the Huskies have won 14 of 16, including nine in a row. They opened the NCAA tour­nament with an 80-78 win over sixth-seeded Marquette and fol­lowed with a 82-64 rout of No. 3 New Mexico. 
“Throughout this run, I think we have gained a lot of confidence because we’re starting to see us playing right,” senior forward Quincy Pondexter said. “It just gets you anxious to play the next game and continue for it to go on.” 
In registering their fourth 25­win season in eight years under coach Lorenzo Romar, the Huskies have rebounded from a terrible start, in which they lost their first seven away from home and then got off to a 3-5 start in conference play. 
NBA 

Lakers cruise past Spurs 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO — Kobe Bryant scored 24 points and the Los Angeles Lakers extended their winning streak to seven games with a 92-83 victory over the San Antonio Spurs on Wednesday night. 
Lamar Odom added 19 points and Ron Artest had 16, but it was Bryant who put the Spurs away for good. He scored 10 in the fourth quar­ter, including two backbreak­ing 3-pointers that San Antonio couldn’t shake off. 
Bryant backpedaled to half-court with his shooting hand still hanging high over his head after both shots. The Lakers then eased out of San Antonio with a come-from­behind win to start a five-game road trip. 
Manu Ginobili scored 24 points and George Hill had 21, but the Spurs got little help from anyone else. San Antonio had no other scorers in double figures, and got a dreadful 2-of-11 night from Tim Duncan, who finished with six points and 12 rebounds. 
The Spurs led for much of the game, but after Bryant took over in the fourth, San Antonio wilted late against the best in the West. And the worst isn’t behind the Spurs: Next up is LeBron James and East-leading Cleveland on Friday. 

The Lakers, meanwhile, continued coasting. 
Paul Gasol had 10 points and 12 rebounds as the Lakers headed for Oklahoma City on Friday on their sec-ond-longest winning streak of the season. It’s the last lengthy trip for Los Angeles before the playoffs begin next month. 

The Lakers left well-rested. Having played just twice in the previous seven days, Lakers coach Phil Jackson said before the game he expected some lively legs. 
Sure enough, the Lakers had all the stamina at the end. 


Thursday, March 25, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Hilling 
continued from page 24 
normally solid goaltender. Five of those shots missed the cage entirely. 
From here the season only gets tougher. The loss ended the nonconference schedule for the Irish as they begin Big East competition with a showdown against Louisville Saturday. 
Coyne noted the impor­tance of this upcoming matchup, stating that only four teams qualify for the Big East tournament at the end of the regular season, which heightens the impor­tance and intensity of every regular season game in the conference. 
No. 5 Georgetown, No. 7 Syracuse, No. 20 Rutgers and No. 19 Loyola are part of the Big East conference. 
In order to make a strong showing in the Big East and NCAA Tournaments, the Irish will have to sharpen their play and turn the 50 minutes of inspired lacrosse they played Wednesday into a full 60 minutes. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS 
Team to face Alma in conference opener 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Having won six of their last eight games, the Belles face off with Alma College in a battle of MIAA opponents this weekend. 
Saint Mary’s (6-3) will look to bounce back after Saturday’s 6­3 loss to Indiana Wesleyan. 
Junior Jillian Hurley won in three sets at the No. 1 singles position, while junior Franca Peluso won in two sets at No. 4 singles in the nonconference matchup. The No. 2 doubles combination of Hurley and jun­ior Mary Therese Lee also won in two sets. 
“Our doubles teams are com­ing together quickly and are close to pulling out some of the tight matches,” junior Kate Grabarek, an Observer sports writer, said. “We have gotten extremely strong play from our No. 2 doubles team in juniors Jillian Hurley and Mary Therese Lee. Junior Franca Peluso and senior Camille Gebert lost another close match.” 
The match against Alma will mark the beginning of confer­ence play for the Belles. Alma enters the match 0-1 in confer­ence play and 5-4 on the sea­son. 
“Alma lost a close match 5-4 against Albion earlier this sea­son and have added some new players to the roster so they will be a tough opponent,” Grabarek said. 
For the Belles, this time of year not only signifies the start of conference play, but also some changes to the way they practice. 
“We have been working on little things and adjusting to being outside,” Grabarek said. “With the Indiana spring weather you have to be pre­pared for anything. We went outside for the first time in Indiana last week, and then played our first match outside on Saturday.” 
No. 2 singles player Camille Gebert serves as the team cap­tain and as the lone senior Belle. 
“Camille is a terrific leader both on and off the court,” Grabarek said. “She has been our captain for the past three seasons and has done a great job. She is a motivated person and very positive towards the team in general, which helps keep our spirits up even when we get down.” 
The Belles hope to get off on the right foot in conference play this weekend when they face off against Alma Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Miller 
continued from page 24 
onds in the NCAA preliminary round. The junior believes her bond with the coach was key in getting her to this point in her career. 
“Kate Kovenock is a selfless coach,” Miller said. “After the meet I told her how all of our work together had paid off, and she told me the work was all mine. We’re real lucky to have her.” 
Miller’s teammate and friend Maxwell took a slight step down this season, earning an Honorable Mention All-American honor to denote her standing in the ninth-to-16th­place range. Maxwell is nonetheless proud of what is still a remarkable achieve­ment. 
“Competing at NCAAs and receiving an All American con­sideration honor was fun,” Maxwell said. “It’s nice to be able to reach that level in com­petition.” 
Maxwell’s swim of 1:00.69 in the prelims and 1:01.09 in the finals was good enough to net her 14th place in the 100-yard breaststroke. After being named All-American at last year’s meet, Maxwell believes she has work to do to regain that status. 
“My goals for next year are to do better than this year. This year I didn’t quite reach my goals, so I will try again next season,” Maxwell said. “Since I was not as happy as I could have been with the way my season ended, I’m looking forward to getting back into a routine and working on my training to get better.” 
The two individual perform­ances by Miller and Maxwell served as the capstone to a season in which the Irish dom­inated their competition en route to a 14th straight Big East championship. With Miller and Maxwell coming back determined to add to their already impressive acco­lades, the future looks bright for the women’s swimming team. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Offense powers Belles run 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Hoping to continue their win­ning streak, the Belles head to North Park Sunday in a non-conference matchup. 
Saint Mary’s (9-5) has been on a roll, winning four out of its last five games, including the previous two. 
The Belles will face a chal­lenge as they take on the Vikings (8-2). 
“We are starting to play together really well,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “We are still getting better every day, which will continue to help us with a tough conference schedule quickly approaching.” 
Offensive production has been key for the Belles this year. Senior outfielder Ashley Peterson and junior outfielder Hayley Bojorquez lead the Belles in most offensive cate­gories. Bojorquez is batting .417 with five home runs and 17 RBIs, while Peterson paces the team with a .457 batting average and 18 RBIs. 
But the offense has some potential holes in it, which could lead to problems later in the season. Luckily for Saint Mary’s, the team has had a full week of practice and rest as it prepares for a tough stretch of MIAA conference games. 
“I am glad to have the time to work on a few keys areas, especially defense and hitting with runners in scoring posi­tion,” Sullivan said. “After play­ing 14 games in 14 days, it’s nice to have that break to reen­ergize.” 
In addition to the offensive production, the Belles have had some consistent pitching to complement the offensive fire­power. Sophomores Angela Gillis and Monica Palicki have thrown well all season. 
The Vikings recently swept Concordia Chicago in a double­header. 
“I got to see them play a bit in Florida and they are aggres­sive, but when we play as a cohesive unit, we can compete very well with them,” Sullivan said. “They have quite a few seniors and upperclassmen, so even though we are younger, we should play well against them.” 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Chicago Sunday for a double­header beginning at 1 p.m. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 25, 2010 
Valdivia (16-2) reign from the senior infielder Christine Lux circle to pitch four shutout followed up with a solo home 
Sweep 
innings for Notre Dame. Those run. 
continued from page 24 four innings included 34 “Our chemistry this year has strikes on 43 been the best it home. pitches and only has in a long “Our team did really well, we one hit in the time,” Wright 
“Our chemistry this 
came out on fire,” sophomore top of the fourth. said. “We’re all 
year has been the
catcher Kristina Wright said. F r e s h m a n close off the “It’s only a matter of time Jackie Bowe best it has been in a field and that before it’s going to explode. relieved Valdivia translates onto 
long time.” 
We’re doing well, and we know in the fifth, the field. Trust we’re coming out and that throwing a is huge, and we’re going to win.” scoreless inning Kristina Wright we’re out there Notre Dame is off to its best with one strike-senior catcher playing for our-


NCAA 
continued from page 24 

the national tournament, many of which boast experi­ence on the junior champi­onship and, for some, even the Olympic level. 
“Among the 12, we for sure have some top guns,” Bednarski said. “Kelley Hurley and Gerek Meinhardt were former Olympians from Beijing and Sarah Borrmann was our [2008] NCAA sabre champion.” 
Another fencer who seems primed for success at the national tournament is sophomore Courtney Hurley, who took gold at the Junior World Cup in January. 
“There are a couple of others who are close to them in aspiration, maybe not experience yet but strength,” Bednarski said. “The competition is a team format, so it will be very important. They all have to play well.” 
Bednarski said he was dis­appointed by the format of NCAA Tournament. He said the limit of 12 players does not allow the Irish to show­case the depth that led them to the No. 1 ranking this season. 
“We are not happy about this format. We’d like to take more kids and show off our depth,” Bednarski said. “During the season we start through 26 games since 2001, and Wright said the team has been consistent in getting base hits and scoring runs. 
Wright launched a home run in the second game, one of seven for the Irish on the day. 
Game one saw junior Jody out. 
The Irish started the afternoon off strong with three runs off of three hits in the first inning. Senior infielder Heather Johnson homered to score junior infielder Katie Fleury, while selves and for 

our team. “ 
The second game proved to be more dramatic. Toledo leapt ahead in the second inning off of a two-run home run from McKenna Smith, followed by another score off an Irish error. 
But Notre Dame came back in the fourth inning with a solo home run from Johnson. Wright homered for the third time in five games later in the inning to drive in three more runs and put the Irish up 5-3. 
Pitzenberger managed to extend her streak by doubling in her last at bat, and later scored to bring the Notre Dame total hits to 12 for the game and 20 for the day. 
The dominating Irish have a challenge coming up for Saturday when they take on Seton Hall in the first confer­ence game of the season. Playing their best softball of the season, the Irish have their eyes set on a conference title and more. 
“Seton Hall is huge because it’s our first conference game,” Wright said. “We’re really focused on keeping our hitting alive, keeping up the base hits. Our defense is solid, and our pitching has been doing really well. We want to keep doing what we’re doing.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
and right now it’s not.” 

Freshman pitcher Patrick Veerkamp (0 -2) took the hard-luck loss, yielding five runs — three earned — in two and one -third third innings of work. Veerkamp’s addition to the rotation comes on the heels of a shoulder injury to senior Cole Johnson. 
Schrage said the focus in practice has been to speed up the pace of the game to allow the defense to stay on its toes. However, the Flames (3-13) made it diffi­cult for the freshman hurler to find a rhythm on the mound. 
“Well we didn’t throw strikes,” Schrage said. “We were trying to play a lot more up tempo. We do this free-bee thing, and we got to cut down on those.” 
The Irish (8-12) had multi­ple chances to break the game open throughout the game, but their most prom­ising opportunity came in the bottom of the first inning after the Flames took a quick 1-0 lead. Notre Dame plated two runs as the first three batters of the game reached base on hits, but Flames starter Tim Suminski settled down to get out of the jam. Suminski (1-0) held the Irish scoreless for the next five innings. 
“We took a couple of showed we are top in the nation but now we must go into the different format, which leads to a more unpredictable result.” 
Despite all the Irish have accomplished this season, in addition to the extensive experience of many Irish fencers, the NCAA Tournament brings a differ­ent type of pressure. 
“[The tournament] is not individual in nature, you are fencing for a whole univer­sity, which builds excess pressure,” Bednarski said. 
Despite having a target on their backs heading into the tournament as the No. 1 team in the nation, Bednarski said he is confi­dent his team is prepared for the biggest stage. 
“This group is extremely ambitious,” Bednarski said. “I would say as a group this is one of the strongest I’ve coached in my 15 years here.” 
One of those groups included the 2005 team, which made history when it won the University’s third national championship in fencing since the combined national championships began in 1990. This year’s Irish will hope to make some history of their own when they begin NCAA Tournament play today at Harvard University. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
called thirds in some big spots, and that’s been another bug-a-boo for us, getting the two -out hit,” Schrage said. 
Sophomore hurler Dustin Ispas came in to relieve Veerkamp in his first appearance since off-season surgery. The lefty threw one and one-third innings, giving up just one hit, but walked three and committed a costly error that led to four Flames runs. 
Senior left fielder David Mills paced the Irish at the plate, belting a two -run home run in the seventh inning, his first of the year. Junior Mick Doyle also left the building with a solo home run of his own in the eighth inning. 
Despite the lack of intensi­ty in the field, Schrage said he was pleased with the effort put forth by his team, even including a pick-off at first base of freshman Frank Desico that ultimately ended an Irish rally. 
“He’s a freshman, he’s try­ing to be aggressive,” Schrage said. “We talked yesterday about being aggressive and taking the extra base, so he was just following suit. He’s a fresh­man just trying to make things happen.” 
The Irish travel to Tampa, Fla., to take on South Florida in the Big East opener Friday at 7:00 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 25, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Thursday, March 25, 2010 page 24 
ND SOFTBALL 
Double Trouble 
Sophomore Valdivia throws pair of gems 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame kept its win streak going Wednesday as it won its seventh and eighth straight games in a double­header against Toledo at Melissa Cook Stadium. The Irish pounded out the hits, including seven home runs to win the first game 11-0 in five innings and overcome a 3-0 deficit to win the second game 8-4. 
Junior utility player Sadie Pitzenberger tied a school record Wednesday by extend­ing her hitting streak to 21 games, the same mark sopho­more infielder Dani Miller set last season. 
Coming off a home opener sweep Tuesday against Eastern Michigan, the Irish (21-5) were excited to keep the win streak going, especially at TOM LA/The Observer 
Junior utility player Sadie Pitzenberger dives back to first base in Notre Dame’s 11-0 victory see SWEEP/page 22 over Toledo Wednesday. Pitzenberger extended her record hitting streak to 21 games. 

BASEBALL 
Defense struggles, ND falls 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Seeking their first winning streak in over a month, the Irish came up short in their final nonconference game before the start of Big East play. Notre Dame fell to the University of Illinois at Chicago 10-5 and committed three errors in the field, as the miscues on defense con­tinue to play a deciding fac­tor in its latest home stretch. 
“That ’s been an over ­whelming theme as far as making our pitchers throw extra pitches,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. “I think we threw 15 pitches to the first hitter of the game. It was disappointing as far as how we play defense because I’m hoping that’s part of our game that’s getting better, 
see DEFENSE/page 22 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Squad takes lead into final minutes before falling to Vanderbilt 
could not hold on to a two-“And we missed a wide-open marks in the fourth quarter. Ellie Hilling.
By MATT ROBISON 

goal lead. opportunity on offense.” Heading into the matchup, Senior Gina Scioscia added 
Sports Writer 

“We tried to go into more of Coyne said she was happy the Irish were focused on two goals and an assist, jun-
a possession game,” Coyne with the way her team per-improved attacking, a facet of ior Kailene Abt had three 
Playing a team they had not said. “But we couldn’t win the formed for most of the game, their game they have not goals, junior Ansley Stewart beaten in the regular season draw.” but was disappointed they did done particularly well most of had two goals and an assist for three years, the No. 11 In a game as close as not play a complete game. the season, especially in their and sophomore Maggie Irish came out of the gates on Wednesday’s matchup, the “We came out and dominat-losses. But they managed Tomastitis tallied three fire but could not keep up the draw is crucial, and ed for the first 50 minutes,” nine goals from five different assists. Junior Shaylyn Blaney pace, falling to No. 19 Vanderbilt capitalized when it Coyne said. “But it’s a 60-scorers against the pack-it-in and sophomore Megan Vanderbilt Wednesday. Irish mattered most. The Irish also minute game.” defense of the Commodores. Sullivan each added one goal. coach Tracy Coyne said the missed a few opportunities to A late run by the Coyne said she has been Hilling saved five of 20 shots, final seven minutes decided strike late. Commodores sealed the victo-especially satisfied with the a lower percentage for the the game — which ended in a “We had a couple turnovers ry, as they scored three goals collective effort of the defense 10-9 loss — as the Irish (4-2) that were costly,” Coyne said. between the 5:45 and 4:15 and goalkeeping of freshman see HILLING/page 21 
FENCING 
Irish send 12 to Tournament 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
Sporting a 68-0 combined record and being recently crowned Midwest Regional champions, Notre Dame has met every test it has faced this year. 
Starting today in Boston, the Irish will attempt to com­plete their season with an NCAA team championship. 
“We are prepared pretty well,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “Every one of our rivals this year is tough, let’s pray that we don’t have injuries and we are in shape.” 
Notre Dame qualified the maximum of 12 fencers for 
see NCAA/page 22 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Juniors find success at NCAAChampionship 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 

A year ago, the sophomore campaigns of swimmers Amywren Miller and Samantha Maxwell ended with quite different results. 
“Samantha got All-American last year, and I got nothing,” Miller, a junior, said. 
This year, both swimmers tasted success at the NCAA Championship meet in West Lafayette, Ind., as Miller gar­nered All-American honors in the 50-yard freestyle, and Maxwell nabbed an Honorable Mention All-American nod in the 100­yard breaststroke. Miller said she was overjoyed with her first All-American honor. 
“It was just really exciting. I’ve been there the past two years ranked higher than I was this year and I came away with nothing,” Miller said. “This year I went say­ing, ‘What’s the worst that could happen?’ Everybody I wanted to be there to sup­port me was there screaming for me, and that was the coolest part.” 
The addition of assistant coach Kate Kovenock, who coaches the sprinters on the team, helped Miller set a school record of 22.30 sec-
see MILLER/page 21 





