the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students show support for GLBT community 
T-shirts worn in response to offensive comic; week-long initiative to include silent protest, panel discussion 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Student, faculty and other members of the Notre Dame community will participate in events this week to demonstrate their desire for the administra­tion to add sexual orientation to the University’s non-discrimina­tion clause. 
The events kicked off yesterday when students wore “Gay? Fine By Me” T-shirts to show their support for Notre Dame’s Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual/Transgend er (GLBT) community. Senior Patrick Bears, a member of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students, said that in light of a controversial comic published in the Jan. 13 edition of The Observer, there has never been a more important time for students to show support for the GLBT community. 
“Generally we try to coincide T-shirt day with StaND Against Hate week or National Coming Out Day, but given the controver­sy surrounding the comic we thought it would be better to do a weeklong initiative promoting these issues,” Bears said. 
More students and alumni than ever expressed interest in obtain­ing T-shirts to wear, he said. 
Former Notre Dame wide receiver Golden Tate said he wanted to get involved with the initiative to help show Notre Dame’s GLBT community that he and others on campus support their decisions. 
“I wanted to participate in the project because just like every­one else, [the GLBT community] are people and have rights,” Tate said. “The Notre Dame communi­ty is a family and family mem­bers support one another to make the family stronger.” 
Senior Johanna Kirsch chose to 
see STUDENTS/page 4 




By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
An alleged cheating inci­dent during an Introduction to Marketing class last semester raised questions concerning the effectiveness of the University Code of Honor and the need for increased education of the academic honesty policy at Notre Dame, a member of the class said. 
Danielle Guidry, a sopho­more student in the class, said several students opened 


Honor code violation spurs more education 
beers during the exam. 
After students brought the incident to the administra­tion’s attention, the depart­ment sent out a question­naire to all students in the class, asking what they observed or partook in dur­ing the final exam. 
“We were asked if we par­ticipated in cheating or if we saw people cheating during the final, if we saw anyone drinking during the final and if we felt that our test­ing environment had been 
see HONOR/page 6 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


TRANSPO, Haiti relief focus of discussion 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representative (COR) discussed ongoing issues including student awareness of TRANSPO locations, as well as continued relief efforts for Haiti at their meeting Tuesday night. 
In light of the violent out­break involving a Notre Dame student at a TRANSPO stop last week, COR distributed 4,000 wallet-sized cards that have the TRANSPO route and times of pick-up to the Notre Dame stu­dent body. 
“Given what happened last week, I want to make sure that everyone knows exactly when and where TRANSPO stops,” student body president Grant Schmidt said. 
COR members suggested hav­ing the bars and restaurants that TRANSPO stops at post a large map of the route along with a stack of the cards so that students have full knowledge of the times and location of the bus. Schmidt said the business­es were open to having posters displayed in their buildings. 
see TRANSPO/page 4 



Activist: Race still a problem 

By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
America remains a society plagued by the problems of white supremacy, despite the election of Barack Obama in 2008, said renowned anti-racism activist and author Tim Wise Tuesday night. 
Held in the Carey Auditorium of Hesburgh Library, Wise gave a lecture entitled “Between Barack and a Hard Place: Racism and White Denial in the Age of Obama.” 
Wise said that even though many pundits had declared America a “post-racial socie­ty,” in the weeks following that historic Nov. 4 election, there remains a significant amount of systemic racism throughout our country. 
“Individual success does not translate into systemic transformation,” Wise said. “Those who proclaim we’re a post-racial society offer no evidence, no data.” 
Wise said that this post-racial rhetoric was akin to saying Pakistan had moved past sexism because Benazir Bhutto had been elected 
see OBAMA/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Saint Mary’s sells carnations page 3  Women’s basketball preview page 20  Advice from ‘Scene Says’ page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 27, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Overtimedue for a Change 
Unless he decides to come back for yet another year and play a full NFL schedule with bones that are turning to dust, Brett Favre’s last pass of his career will go down as an intercep­tion. This should not be problemat­ic, for perhaps no sports figure of his era was as beloved for his spectacular on-field successes and failures as Favre, but there is a lingering fact 

Chris Allen 
which makes it tough to swallow: it could have Sports Wire ended so much Editor better. The NFL’s overtime rules, regarded by nearly all fans with dis­dain, robbed us of a storybook moment in a storybook career. 
In the NFL, the rules of overtime dictate that the first team to score wins the game, regardless of the man­ner in which the points or scored. In Sunday’s NFC Championship Game, Favre sat on the sidelines as Drew Brees and the Saints won the coin toss, received the kickoff, and drove to the winning score. Favre and his Vikings are not alone, as from 1974 to 2003 a whopping 28 percent of over­time games were decided on the first drive, with the other team given no opportunity to respond. How anyone can consider this a fair resolution of a game is beyond me. Ultimately it will probably take a Super Bowl decided in this manner to initiate a change, but it is still worth it to consider the alterna­tives. 
When I casually mention the idea of changing NFL overtime to football fans, they usually respond by saying how much they love the way college football handles overtime. This is not a viable solution, however, for the more passing oriented NFL. College overtime favors strong red zone teams, eliminating the downfield pass­ing game and benefiting those teams with bigger backs. It’s not football in a sense; it is merely a part of football, a small piece of the bigger game. If one were to extrapolate the idea it’s almost akin to deciding tied baseball games with a home run derby or a bunting competition. Leaving college overtime rules to those who use them best, the NFL needs to look elsewhere. 
As is the case with most of the world’s problems, a solution can be found in video games. Any sports-lov­ing child of the 90s will remember, or at least know of the game “NFL Blitz,” which made its name with arcade style play and bone-crunching late hits. If two teams tied, the game sim­ply went to a fifth quarter, the same length as the first four. The team that led at the end of the fifth won the game. Why couldn’t this work in the NFL? Sure, a team would get the ball first, but each team would undoubted­ly get the ball at least once. In Favre’s case, he would have had nearly ten minutes to get back in the game. But for now, we, like Favre, are simply left to ponder what might have been, a result of a ridiculous rule that lives on unchallenged. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In a Jan. 22 article titled "Jenkins, students head to 
D.C. for march," The Observer incorrectly stated that Right to Life co-vice president Mary Daly said about 3,000 people attend the Right to Life March in Washington D.C. About 300,000 people attend the March. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE IS THE BEST PLACE TO BREAK UP WITH YOUR SI NIFICANT OTHER ON CAMPUS? 



Julia Kohn  Cody Gaffney  Anna Boarini  
freshman  sophomore  freshman  
Lewis  Keough  Regina  
“In The  “Around the  “In the middle  
Observer.”  lakes or under  of LaFun, when  
the Lyons arch.”  its super busy.  
You can stand  
up on a table  
and be like ‘I’m  
done with  
you!’”  


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Notre Dame students attend an informational meeting for the Riley Children’s Foundation Dance Marathon that will be held at Saint Mary’s College March 26 and 
27. There will be another meeting tonight in DeBartolo at 7:30 p.m. for anyone who is interested. 
OFFBEAT  
Woman pleads no contest in rat meal scheme  She threatened to alert the media.  front of his jumped on his hood and kicked and  
APPLETON, Wis. — An  Instead of paying, the  punched his windshield as he  
Appleton woman who tried  owners turned the rat over  waited for a traffic light to  
to extort money from an  to investigators for their  change. The man, John P.  
upscale restaurant by put- insurance company. They  Williamson, 37, said the inci­ 
ting a rat in her lunch has  determined it was a domes- dent was unprovoked.  
entered no-contest pleas to  tic rat that had been cooked  According to The Daily Times  
two criminal charges. The  in a microwave.  of Maryville, police quoted  
Appleton Post-Crescent  The restaurant doesn’t  the woman as saying she was  
reported 43-year-old  use microwaves. Miller was  being followed.  
Debbie R. Miller was found  arrested about three  A woman, 58, was arrested  
guilty after she entered the  months later.  and charged with vandalism  
pleas to a felony extortion  Sentencing is scheduled  of more than $500. She was  
charge and a misdemeanor  for March 8.  being held in lieu of $1,000  
for obstructing police. Prosecutors said Miller planted the rat at The  Man said woman attacked his car for no reason  bond pending a hearing Thursday in Blount County General Sessions Court.  
Seasons on April 17, 2008,  ALCOA, Tenn. — An East  
and then demanded  Tennessee man told police  Information compiled from  
$500,000 from the owners.  that a woman in a vehicle in  the Associated Press.  

Today Tonight THursday friday 


Bri Neblung 
freshman Badin 
“Through the Emergency Response System.” 


IN BRIEF 
Campus tours led by student tour guides will be given today from 1 to 2:15 p.m. The walking tour will touch upon most major campus highlights and will leave from the Eck Visitors’ Center Lobby. 
Joshua Diehl, assistant profes­sor of psychology, will discuss the latest autism research at his lec­ture, “The Science Café: Solving the Autism Puzzle” today. He will speak from 6 to 7:30 p.m. at 217 S. Michigan St., South Bend. The talk is sponsored by the 
Community  Relations  
Department.  
Dr.  Peter  Casarella  from  

DePaul University will speak at a lecture entitled, "The Witness of Mary’s Faith: What Catholics Could Learn from Dialogue with Evangelicals," in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall at 7 p.m. today. 
Actors From the Stage of London (AFTLS) will perform “Romeo and Juliet” at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall today through Friday. Call 574-631­2800 for tickets. 
A forum and discussion, enti­tled “Where Do We Go From Here? Moving Beyond Fruits and Vegetables” will take place tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library. 
Notre Dame students wishing to compete in a spelling bee and benefit Haiti can attend ND Spelling Bee 4 Haiti in LaFortune Ballroom tomorrow from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
saturday sunday 



27 LOW 18 LOW 16 LOW 14 LOW 13 LOW 17 LOW 
21 

Atlanta 53 / 39 Boston 40 / 31 Chicago 27 / 18 Denver 43 / 30 Houston 68 / 58 Los Angeles 66 / 45 Minneapolis 12 / -1 New York 43 / 31 Philadelphia 43 / 31 Phoenix 66 / 48 Seattle 52 / 41 St. Louis 42 / 31 Tampa 65 / 44 Washington 46/ 33 

Wednesday, January 27, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Saint Mary’s to sell carnations 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
NewsWriter 
Valentine’s Day is most notably known for its emphasis on romantic relationships, but Saint Mary’s College is chang­ing that by emphasizing rela­tionships of all kinds. 
Today through Feb. 2, Saint Mary’s students will be selling carnations in the atrium of the student center during lunch and dinner. 
The red carnations, attached with a Valentine’s card, can be purchased for any friend for $2. 
“The flowers are for two rea­sons. The first is as a celebra­tion of Valentine’s Day and a bit of color during the dreary days of winter,” Carolyne Call, direc­tor of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement, said. “The other reason is to raise money for Rebuilding Together.” 

Each year, Saint Mary’s College sponsors a house for the Rebuilding Together proj­ect, a mission to rehabilitate dilapidating houses. These homes generally belong to recipients that are elderly, dis­abled or living below the pover­ty line. All participants’ houses underwent a lengthy inspection and application in order to be accepted into the program. 
The volunteer day, April 17, will go towards major repairs on the house, such as electrical work, carpentry, painting, win­dow glazing, caulking and plumbing. 
Saint Mary’s College is hoping the fundraiser proceeds will amount to $300, which will go towards the overall $3,500 cost for sponsoring the house. 
This major spring event is a way of raising awareness about Rebuilding Together, while at the same time, brightening people’s day. 
“Involvement with Rebuilding Together is the way we can ‘love thy neighbor,’ one house at a time,” Call said. 
For further information on Rebuilding Together, visit www.rtsjc.org 


Contact Brittany VanSnepson at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 


Universityfocusesonfluidmechanics 
Special to the Observer 
Harindra Joseph Fernando has been appointed the Wayne and Diana Murdy Professor of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences at the University of Notre Dame. 
Fernando is an expert in fluid mechanics, specifically in atmospheric and oceanic flows as well as industrial flows involving density varia­tions. His current projects include laboratory experi­ments and field observations in conjunction with theoreti­cal and computer modeling of urban flows, highlighting the effects of climate change, air flow in mountainous terrain, underwater waves in shelf seas, dynamics and remote sensing of ship and subma­rine wakes, storage problems in National Petroleum Reserves, flow through nuclear reactors, modeling and measurements of air pol­lution, including health effects, turbulence in the atmospheric boundary layer; and freeway acoustics. In addition to national agencies, several international sponsors support his work. 

At Notre Dame, Fernando plans to focus on environ­ment, energy and sustainabil­ity issues and collaborate with a cadre of researchers already on campus working on similar challenges. 
He joins the Notre Dame faculty from Arizona State University, where he most recently served as the direc­tor of the Center for Environmental Fluid Dynamics and professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, with an appointment in the School of Sustainability. 




Collegeoffersethnic dessert samples 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Who knew learning could be so sweet? 
Saint Mary’s Student Diversity Board (SDB) offered students the chance to broad­en their cultural horizons while satisfying their sweet tooth at their “Sugar Makes the World Go Around” event in Le Mans Hall’s Reignbeaux Lounge Tuesday night. 
SDB members Casie Hamman and Tavierney Rogan coordinated the event, bringing delicacies from sev­eral different countries together for students to try. 
“It’s a good way to get SDB out there because food inter­ests people,” Hamman said. 
The food was catered by Sodexho, Saint Mary’s cater­ing service, who provided all the sweets they had access to, and worked off recipes for the ones they didn’t, Hamman said. 
Foods came from France, Italy, Ireland, Germany, Scandinavia, Mexico, Africa, the Caribbean and Greece, as well as desserts from the Native American culture. They ranged from éclairs from France to pound cake in banana sauce from the Caribbean. 
“It’s interesting because they are things people haven’t tried before,” Rogan said. 
Carissa Salvador, president 
of SDB, likes the event because there is such a large response. 
“It is nice trying different desserts from different coun­tries,” Salvador said. “It’s a more fun event because you can get people actually here.” 
Students enjoy these types of events because they draw people together in a relaxed, positive setting. 
“I think [these events] are important because they are drawing people together through food,” sophomore Jordan Bartrom said. 
Students didn’t only come for the food. They also sup­port SDB’s mission to help bring diversity to campus. 
“It’s a good club and it has a good point,” Bartrom said. “It’s a smart idea because everybody loves dessert. 
SDB is busy working on other upcoming events. Feb. 8 to Feb. 13 will be Disability Awareness Week, Hamman said. Women’s Appreciation Week will run from Feb. 22 to Feb. 25, Rogan said. 
SDB will also be holding their annual Diverse Student Leadership Conference (DSLC) from March 17-19. 


Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 27, 2010 

Students 
continued from page 1 
wear a “Gay? Fine By Me” shirt yesterday for similar reasons. 
“I think it’s good for the stu­dent body to come together and show support for each others’ struggles,” Kirsch said. “I hope the GLBT community will be able to see that they do have supporters who love and accept them for who they are.” 
should be and there’s kind of this veil of ignorance surround­ing these issues,” Bears said. “From a legal and theological perspective, Notre Dame needs to reinforce its Catholic identity by practicing nondiscrimina­tion.” 
Senior Madison Prieto, a member of Notre Dame’s GLBT community, echoed Bears’ goal of educating Notre Dame stu­dents and faculty. 
“People at this school can be 
a little closed-
minded some-

Senior Jessica Mahon, one of the students in  “I think it’s important for students to realize  times, so [the events being held this week are] a  
charge of organizing the T-shirt day, said  it’s not a problem that goes away.”  good way for people to learn about what’s  
she hopes the events planned  Jessica Mahon  going on and the issues at hand,”  
for  this  week  senior  Prieto said.  


will show stu­dents the ongo­ing nature of discrimination on campus. 
“I think it’s important for stu­dents to realize it’s not a prob­lem that goes away,” Mahon said. “It kind of comes in waves. There will be a comic or a Viewpoint letter or something and it’ll be a hot topic for a week and then go away. But it’s not an issue that goes away for members of the Notre Dame community that are gay.” 
Bears said his main goal for this week’s events is to simply start a discussion on the issue of discrimination against Notre Dame’s GLBT community, because it is often ignored on campus. 
“I think [this week is] impor­tant because these kinds of issues aren’t really discussed on campus as well as they 


Transpo 
continued from page 1 
COR also discussed the ongo­ing student efforts to raise money for Haiti relief. Schmidt said student government col­lected $4,103 from the dona­tion boxes that have been in prominent locations on campus, as well as an additional $3,000 in online donations. 
Schmidt said student govern­ment decided how the money raised would be divided among the five charitable groups that had been selected. He said they had chosen to give 10 percent of the donations to the Red Cross, 10 percent to the Notre Dame Haiti Program, 20 per­cent to Friends of the Orphans, 30 percent to the Holy Cross Missions in Haiti and 30 per­cent to Catholic Relief Services. 
“We obviously have a direct connection to Holy Cross and we also have students who are very involved with Friends of the Orphans,” Schmidt said. “We know exactly where that money is going.” 
The sum that has already been raised is going to be sent to the five groups Friday, but fundraising efforts will continue and more money will be sent to the charities as it is raised. 
One fundraising venture that was addressed was the creation of a Haiti relief shirt, which was first suggested in last week’s COR meeting. Members have created a shirt design and have received complete funding from the Alumni Student Club, which will allow all of the profit to go directly to Haiti. The motion to sell the shirts passed and they will begin to be sold on campus as soon as they come in. 
Following yes­
terday’s T-shirt day, a silent demonstration will be held today at noon at the University’s gates to protest Notre Dame’s exclusion of sexu­al orientation from the non-dis­crimination clause and the lack of a recognized Gay-Straight Alliance on campus. 
Tomorrow, a panel discus­sion, “Where To Go From Here?: Moving Beyond Fruits and Vegetables,” will be held in the Hesburgh Library’s Carey Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. The event will consist of a discus­sion and question-and-answer session about what Notre Dame’s student body can do to fulfill the Spirit of Inclusion, a document adopted by the University in 1997. 

Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
One of the major issues dis­cussed was the upcoming revi­sion of the du Lac student handbook. 
“This is a huge deal,” Schmidt said. “This isn’t something that should be taken lightly.” 
Schmidt said the Office of Student Affairs told student government what the main top­ics they want to discuss would be, but any issues can be brought up and addressed. 
The four issues that Student Affairs is most concerned with are procedures for dealing with sexual assault, the means in which accountability for off-campus activities is addressed, the potential for minor changes in disciplinary processes and the awareness that students have of policies outlined in du Lac. 
Schmidt encouraged all of the members of COR to look at du Lac with their individual groups about specific concerns and questions. Next week’s meeting of COR will be primarily focused on discussing potential issues that members found in regards to du Lac. 
“This could be one of the more important things we do,” Schmidt said. 
Schmidt also said there have been many questions about the budget of Food Services such as ones pertaining to why the din­ing hall meals are so expensive, why meals can’t carry over and why students can’t take food to go, among others. 
“We’re going to present ques­tions to Food Services and get explanations for why these things are the way they are,” Schmidt said. “Or, on the nega­tive side, we could possibly expose something that we can deal with and change.” 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
Obama 
continued from page 1 
twice. 
“The reality is that we all inherit the legacies of those that came before us,” Wise said. “But this legacy is one that we’re not supposed to talk about.” 
Wise cited examples from the Department of Justice eight times the worth of Latino families. 
“In a 2004 study, job applications with white sounding names had a 50 percent greater chance of getting a call back than those with black sounding names,” Wise said. “None of this has changed because of the election.” 
Wise emphasized the importance of being aware 
of this racial legacy, an awareness that isn’t easily 
reports in 2004 that stated “Individual success 
African-
does not translate to
Americans with the same systemic 
credentials as transformation.” white workers were twice as 
Tim Wise 
likely to be out of work as anti-racism activist their white counterparts, with Latinos two-thirds as how good of likely to be out of work. are, you can found among the dominant populati on group simply because it ’s not necessary. 
“There ’s a diff erence between denial and ignorance, ” Wise said. “Regardless of 
a person you 
be implicated 
Wise also said the average in injustice just because you white family has 11 times don ’t have to be made the net worth of African-aware of what it’s like to be American families, and part of a non -dominant group. It ’s a privilege, a psychological edge, to not have to think about these things.” 
“It ’s important to know the difference between guilt and responsibility, ” Wise said. “It doesn’t matter that you didn’t make the mess but only that you’re tired of living in the filth of other’s residue.” 
This is not a functional system, Wise said, and the costs of not attempting to fix it now are only going to escalate for future genera­tions. 
“We ought to be afraid of this for us, not somebody else,” Wise said. “This is not about charity, it ’s about responsibility.” 

Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler@nd.edu 





World & Nation 
Wednesday, January 27. 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Report exposes secret prisons 
GENEVA — A group of U.N. human rights experts has published a report on secret deten­tion centers detailing how the United States, China, Russia and others have used them in the fight against terrorism. 
The 226-page report by U.N. experts on tor­ture, counter-terorism, arbitrary detention and forced disappearances will be presented to the global body’s Human Rights Council in March. 
It covers recent use of secret prisons in what has been called the “war on terror” as well as their use in anti-communist and counterinsur­gency operations since the 1940s. 
The study, published online Tuesday, con­tains details of interviews with prisoners allegedly held in secret prisons and replies to questionnaires from some 44 countries. 

China warns U.S. about arms sales 
BEIJING — Contacts with China’s military would likely be the first to suffer if Beijing moves to retaliate over upcoming U.S. arms sales to Taiwan — the latest in a flurry of disputes ele­vating tensions between Washington and Beijing. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Ma Zhaoxu warned Tuesday that the Obama administration risked damaging bilateral ties with China if it proceeds with the arms package deal, which is likely to include Black Hawk helicopters and Patriot missiles. 
“Once again, we urge the U.S. side to recog­nize the sensitivity of weapon sales to Taiwan and its gravity,” Ma said. Failure to halt sales would “impair the larger interests of China-U.S cooperation.” 


NATIONAL NEWS 

L.A. ordinance forces out pot clinics 
LOS ANGELES — The day feared by medical marijuana advocates arrived Tuesday when the City Council finally approved an ordinance intended to close hundreds of pot shops and banish those that remain to industrial areas. 
The new law, which passed 9-3, caps the eventual number of dispensaries in the city at 
70. But at this point, 137 shops that registered before a 2007 moratorium could be allowed to keep operating if they adhere to the new guide­lines. 
Yamileth Bolanos, who runs Pure Life Alternative Wellness Center, said she’ll have to close her clinic to comply with the new restric­tions then reopen at a new location nine miles away. 

Arrests made in phone tampering 
NEW ORLEANS — Louisiana Sen. Mary Landrieu says allegations that a conservative activist and three other men tried to tamper with phones at her New Orleans office are “unset­tling.” 
One of the suspects is James O’Keefe, a con­servative activist who posed as a pimp last year on hidden camera to target the liberal communi­ty-organizing group ACORN. 
Authorities say one of the other suspects is Robert Flanagan, son of the acting U.S. attorney in Shreveport, Bill Flanagan. 
The FBI says Flanagan and another man dressed as utility workers Monday and said they needed to fix the phone system. A witness told the FBI that O’Keefe filmed the men on his cell phone when they walked in. 
The Democrat calls it a “very unusual situa­tion” and says she is “as interested as everyone else about their motives and purpose.” 


LOCAL NEWS 

Stimulus dollars fund road repair 
INDIANAPOLIS — Mayor Greg Ballard and U.S. Rep. Andre Carson say about 130 miles of Indianapolis roads will be resurfaced and 13 bridges will be repaired with $23 million in federal stim­ulus dollars. 
The resurfacing will target pothole-rid­den and patched-over roadways based on the frequency of street repairs in the area and reports to the Mayor’s Action Center call line. 
Officials say about 550 jobs will be cre­ated by the projects, which are scheduled to begin in early March. 



President prepares for address 
Obama plans to address economy, anti-terrorism in State of the Union speech 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON—President Barack Obama will try to pivot past rocky times for the nation and himself Wednesday night in his first State of the Union address, offering a skeptical public repackaged plans to ener­gize the economy, stem a tide of red ink and strength­en anti-terror defenses. 
He’ll also be trying to revive his own “yes we can” image. 
One year into office, and a week after pledging to do better at “speaking directly to the American people,” Obama faces urgent chal­lenges as he stands before lawmakers gathered in the Capitol and a prime-time television audience at home for the constitutionally man­dated ritual of U.S. govern­ing. The country has lost more than 7 million jobs since the recession began two years ago, unemploy­ment is stuck at 10 percent, and the government is grap­pling with a record $1.4 tril­lion deficit. 
Obama’s presidency is troubled as well. The per­centage of Americans giving him a thumbs-up has fallen precipitously, from 74 per­cent when he took office to 56 percent now. He hasn’t 
had a breakout legislative on Monday. issues in favor of trimmed-each option deeply problem-or diplomatic victory, and Republican Gov. Bob down goals. atic, White House advisers he’s failed to break McDonnell of Virginia will In fact, Obama will argue continued to wrestle with Washington’s partisanship deliver a televised response that his sweeping ideas for that portion of the speech in as promised. Then last Wednesday night, two change are as much a part particular late Tuesday. week, an upset Republican months after putting his of putting the economy back Obama planned to acknowl­victory in a Massachusetts state in GOP hands in one of on track as more immediate edge that the long, messy Senate race threw Obama’s the party’s major recent job creation and economic health care debate has signature domestic priority, election victories. security proposals. soured many on the idea a sweeping health care Among the freshly sharp-“If we don’t get that stuff and try to make a far-reach­overhaul, into jeopardy and ened messages Obama will right, then it’s going to be ing overhaul relevant and shined a spotlight on eco-weave through his remarks: very difficult for us to attractive again to voters. nomic angst now being He’s a fighter for struggling answer the anxieties that “We have to move forward taken out on him. families and against wealthy people feel over the long in a way that recaptures 
Obama will be using one special interests; he relates term,” Obama said this that sense of opening things of the presidency’s loudest personally to Americans’ week in an interview with up more,” he told ABC. and grandest megaphones everyday concerns; he has ABC News. — He’ll talk about why he to press several themes. come far in one year but Advisers say the president thinks the nation’s future They will be fleshed out in has made some errors along doesn’t plan to reshape his economic health also greater detail afterward as the way and has much more agenda as much as better depends on reshaping finan­the president travels to to do. And he does not explain and defend it: cial industry regulations to Florida on Thursday and intend to fling aside an — He’ll map a way for-place tighter rules on Wall New Hampshire on Tuesday ambitious agenda on health ward for mired health care Street, another immediate for jobs-focused appear-care, energy, education, legislation, facing several domestic priority. White ances and when he submits immigration and other options for passage. With House press secretary 
his 2011 budget to Congress 


GUINEA 



New prime minister challenges junta 
elections, which is a necessary passage unusual in this part of Africa, where 

Associated Press 
for the country,” Dore said in a speech. coup leaders typically cling to power 
CONAKRY — One of the fiercest critics The appointment caps a sequence of until death, as was the case for Guinea’s of Guinea’s military junta became prime events set in motion Dec. 3 when Capt. two previous dictators, both of whom minister Tuesday, a crucial step toward Moussa “Dadis” Camara, who took died in office. democracy that comes amid worries the power in late 2008, was shot in the Although many take heart from the country’s wounded coup leader is trying head by one of his aides and had to quick appointment of Dore, some are to influence the political process from leave the country for emergency sur-worried by unconfirmed reports exile. gery. Camara is trying to meddle from the 
Jean Marie Dore takes over the pre-Earlier this month, Camara agreed heavily guarded villa in Burkina Faso’s miership 13 months after the military under intense pressure to stay in nearby capital, Ouagadougou, where he is con-seized power and dissolved the constitu-Burkina Faso and not to return. He valescing. tion. He vowed to steer the nation agreed to allow his No. 2 to appoint a A retired diplomat close to the junta toward elections and said the military civilian prime minister to prepare elec-told The Associated Press that Camara needs to be restructured for stability to tions within six months in which no has been making phone calls to support-take hold. member of the military will be allowed ers and power brokers in Conakry in an 
“I am committed to leading Guinea to run. effort to influence who will be appointed toward free, credible and transparent The landmark agreement is deeply in the transitional government. 

page 6 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, January 27, 2010 



Leaders try to save Irish gov. 
Associated Press 
HILLSBOROUGH, Northern Ireland — The prime ministers of Britain and Ireland present­ed rival Catholic and Protestant leaders with last-ditch propos­als Tuesday designed to keep their power-sharing govern­ment from unraveling. 
The 2 1/2-year-old coalition at the heart of Northern Ireland peacemaking is on the brink of collapse following a long-run­ning dispute over when it will take responsibility from Britain for the province’s police and justice system. 
The Irish Catholics of Sinn Fein say the move is years overdue — and are threatening to withdraw from the coalition, triggering its destruction, unless the British Protestants of the Democratic Unionist Party stop vetoing the objective. 
The prime ministers, Gordon Brown of Britain and Brian Cowen of Ireland, also want the Protestants to stop stalling, as does U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who telephoned Brown and Sinn Fein leaders during the course of Tuesday’s negotiations. 
But the Democratic Unionists countered that they wouldn’t cave in to outside pressure or artificial deadlines posed by anyone. 
“If it isn’t a good deal, whether the (British) prime minister is here or not, it won’t make a difference to us,” Democratic Unionist leader Peter Robinson said. 
The prime ministers, deter­mined not to leave Northern Ireland without a break­through, planned to keep talk­ing past midnight for a second straight night and make a final push for agreement Wednesday. Both were staying at the Hillsborough Castle negotiating venue southwest of Belfast. 

Throughout Tuesday’s negoti­ations, the Democratic Unionists held out for their own controversial concessions, par­ticularly the right of Protestant groups to resume marching near hostile Sinn Fein districts. Britain has curtailed that explo­sive tradition over the past decade with a powerful Parades Commission that the Protestants want abolished. 
The British and Irish govern­ments presented a compromise plan that, while gap-filled and incomplete, seeks to give both Sinn Fein and the Democratic Unionists part of what they both want. 
The documents offered a choice of options. These includ­ed a potential May target date for transferring justice powers, and a successor organization for the Parades Commission that would stress mediation between Protestant marching groups and their Catholic oppo­nents. The existing commission imposes restrictions on parade routes but doesn’t mediate between the sides. 
“What’s going on in there is an exchange of ideas. There are many ideas being dis­cussed, and this is very much a work in progress,” said Britain’s secretary of state for Northern Ireland, Shaun Woodward, who has the castle as his official residence. “Everybody is focused on what’s at stake.” 
Later, the governments let international TV crews in to film the premiers and the Sinn Fein and Democratic Unionist delegations chatting and joking around a long conference table. 
Robinson could be heard mak­ing small talk with his Sinn Fein deputy in the government, Martin McGuinness, about their sports allegiances. 
Northern Ireland’s U.S.-bro­kered Good Friday peace accord of 1998 proposed power-sharing between majori­ty Protestants and minority Catholics as the best way to end a conflict that had claimed more than 3,600 lives since the late 1960s. 
While paramilitary cease­fires since the mid-1990s have ensured a fragile peace, power-sharing itself has lurched from crisis to crisis. 
The current Sinn Fein-Democratic Unionist showdown has flared now, in part, because of both parties’ ambitions and anxieties as a British general election looms within five months. Northern Ireland politicians typically adopt hard­er-line positions for campaign purposes. 
Sinn Fein negotiators accuse the Protestant side of trying to stall all progress until after the election, when Brown is widely expected to be ousted from power by Conservative Party leader David Cameron. The Conservatives infuriated Sinn Fein by meeting this month in secret with Northern Ireland’s Protestant lawmakers to explore a possible election pact. 
Sinn Fein negotiator Conor Murphy said his party had entered power-sharing in expectation of helping to over­see Northern Ireland’s agencies of law and order — a system that Sinn Fein’s Irish Republican Army allies sought to destroy before its 1997 cease-fire. He said the Democratic Unionists had vetoed the step for too long. 



Honor 
continued from page 1 
hampered,” Guidry said. “If we didn’t answer honestly, we would be held in violation of the honor code.” 
Even with the number of reported violations decreasing in the last academic year to 59, down from 89 in the 2006-07 academic year, facul­ty and students continue to convey concern over the implementation of the Academic Code of Honor and its effectiveness on campus. 
Created as a collaborative effort by faculty and students in 1989, the Academic Code of Honor states, “As a member of the Notre Dame community, I will not participate in or tol­erate academic dishonesty.” 
Prior to matriculation at the University, students partici­pate in an online orientation to test their understanding of the Academic Code of Honor and provide an avenue for students to agree to the prin­ciples, policies and proce­dures outlined in the hand­book. 
“I think across the United States, there was a growing trend for universities to adopt some kind of honor code sys­tem,” associate 
“I think that students
provost and co-“It seems to chair of the who cheat are not at me that it was University Code less widespread 
all concerned with 
of Honor [when I was a
learning, but with
Committee student] Dennis Jacobs producing work and because people said. “What getting grades.” were less honor codes are adapted to the really trying to Internet,” 
Mary Beauclair 
do is promote Speaks said. “It an ethic across senior is so easy now 
and the advancement of understanding.” 
Jacobs agreed that faculty members have a critical role in educating students about the honor code and specifying the way in which it is applied in each course. 
“There are legitimate areas where students need clarifica­tion, the most common of which is collaboration,” Jacobs explained. “Students are encouraged to work in teams on homework assign­ments one day and then other times in the very same course, they are encouraged to work on their own. If I spell that out very clearly, you understand what the expecta­tion is in each case.” 
Professor Jeff Speaks said in the philosophy department there is a separate document he utilizes to show how the honor code applies specifical­ly to writing in philosophy. 
“I talk in length about it and give examples,” Speaks said. “I talk about using the Internet — what is good and what’s not.” 
Yet, in the current techno­logical environment with the free flow of an infinite amount of information, Internet-based cheating has become the most common 
type of reported 
violations at the 
university. 
campus.” 
The ethic implied in the honor code has undergone several revisions and drafts, but the current version focuses on the responsibility of students to promote academic honesty in their own work and in the work of their classmates and peers. 
“We want to put the [honor code] out there and inform students that when they join the university, they are join­ing scholarly community,” Jacobs said. “We are a com­munity that is all about the pursuit of truth. So whether you do that as a faculty mem­ber doing research or a stu­dent doing course work, the pursuit of truth is what we want to keep our eyes on as the goal.” 
It is this pursuit of truth that guided senior Mary Beauclair to serve on the University Code of Honor 
Committee  as  a  representa­ 
t i ve  f r o m  t h e  Co l l e g e  o f  
Engineering.  

“I think there should be a zero tolerance policy for cheating, and professors should be more available and open to discussing violations in their classrooms,” Beauclair said. “When stu­dents who cheat receive equal or better grades than students who do not, the value of those grades decreases.” 
Beauclair said she dislikes cheating in the classroom and believes that there needs to be a shift in teaching to focus less on grades and more on learning. 
“I think that students who cheat are not at all concerned with learning, but with pro­ducing work and getting grades,” Beauclair said. “A shift in this attitude would require restructuring of courses to emphasize learning to find stuff on 
the Internet, whereas it’s much harder to go to the library and find a book to plagiarize from.” 
In handling reported honor code violations, faculty and students have the option to take the case to a hearing or file an Honor Code Violation Report, the latter being the most preferred option. 
“We created a system so that if a student and faculty member could agree on an appropriate sanction,” Jacobs explained. “My office reviews those and makes sure the agreed-upon sanction and the whole process is in conformity with the honor code.” 
Sanctions can range from a failing grade on the assign­ment to expulsion in the most extreme cases where multiple violations have occurred. 
“There are six or seven principles to help faculty and students understand what an appropriate sanction would be,” Jacobs said. “There is no suspension or expulsion for a single offense, but [the sanc­tion] will impact the grade in the course where the violation took place.” 
Beauclair said violations should be addressed in a seri­
ous manner, and students should be aware of the conse­quences of academic dishon­esty. 
“Professors should take more action when honor code violations are reported,” Beauclair said. “Rather than saying that they can’t prove it or it is not their place to call students out, they should address students directly. If students thought professors actually cared about the Code of Honor, they might cheat less.” 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
The Observer 



Business

Wednesday, January 27, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

Jan. sees consumer confidence rise 
CHICAGO — Americans are feeling better about the economy, home prices are on the rise and companies are forecasting a brighter 2010. 
While no one doubts the economy has a long way to go to come back from the punishing recession, the reports Tuesday were signs of progress for a recovery that has proceeded in fits and starts. 
“We’re definitely moving in the right direc­tion,” said Scott Hoyt, senior director of con­sumer economics at Moody’s Economy.com. “But on the other hand, we’re moving there from a very low point. And we’re still at a very low point.” 
Consumer confidence rose in January for the third straight month, the Conference Board said Tuesday. People said they felt better about the economy and were more willing to buy big-tick­et items like cars and refrigerators. 
The group’s consumer confidence index now stands at its highest level since the financial meltdown in September 2008. But at 55.9, it’s a far cry from readings of 90 or higher that indi­cate an economy on solid footing. 

GM sells Saab for $74 million 
DETROIT — A small Dutch automaker will try to do what U.S. auto giant General Motors Co. couldn’t — make money by selling Saab brand automobiles in an increasingly competitive glob­al marketplace. 
GM signed a deal Tuesday to sell Saab to Zeewolde, Netherlands-based Spyker Cars NV for $74 million in cash plus $326 million worth of preferred shares in Saab. 
The deal hinges on a $550 million loan from the European Investment Bank, which the Swedish government on Tuesday committed to guaranteeing. 
The sale is a coup for Spyker and a lifeline for Saab, which has lost money ever since GM bought a 50 percent stake and management control for $600 million in 1989. The Detroit automaker gained full ownership in 2000 for $125 million more. 
Saab employs around 3,500 people in Sweden and was within days of liquidation as part of GM’s restructuring. 
Now GM will continue providing vehicles and parts to the new company, to be called Saab Spyker Automobiles NV. 



Investor anxiety costs advance 
Worry over possible bank regulation causes the market to lose an afternoon gain 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Stocks gave up a healthy advance and closed slightly lower Tuesday as investors suffered another bout of anxiety over President Barack Obama’s plan to regulate banks. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, up 90 points in the early afternoon, closed with a loss of 2.57. The other major indexes were also down modestly. 
Uneasiness about Obama’s plan to limit the size and trading operations of big banks pulled financial stocks and then the entire market lower. News reports that Paul Volcker, the head of the President’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board, would testify about the plan before Congress next week, contributed to the market’s turnaround. The office of Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., said after the market closed that Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman, would appear before the Senate Banking Committee next Tuesday. 
The drop was the market’s fifth in seven days, and the fact that it came shortly before the closing bell showed how uneasy investors are; last-hour pull­backs were the hallmark of a troubled market during dence rose to 55.9 in The day began with a bout Sunday. Doubts last week the financial crisis of 2008. January from 53.6 in of selling as China moved about his ability to get con­
Obama’s announcement of December. It was the third ahead with a plan to curb firmed in the Senate, com-his plan last week helped straight increase and the bank lending. Investors in bined with the White give stocks their worst week highest level in more than a the U.S. and elsewhere are House’s latest drive to clamp in 10 months. Traders said year. concerned a slowdown in down on U.S. banks, led to some investors had started And insurer Travelers Cos. China’s big economy could the big drop in the market to regard the proposals as said an absence of catastro-destabilize a worldwide from Wednesday through political bluster before the phe costs and a recovery in recovery. Friday. latest reports dashed those its investment portfolios lift-The drop Tuesday came as Christian Bendixen, direc­hopes. ed profits 60 percent for the Federal Reserve policymak-tor of technical research at 
“There is maybe more final three months of 2009. ers began a two-day meeting Bay Crest Partners LLC in than just a bark. Maybe this The Dow fell 2.57, or less on interest rate policy. The New York, said a drop in thing does have a bite,” said than 0.1 percent, to central bank is expected to Goldman Sachs shares and Dan Deming, a trader with 10,194.29. The Standard & keep rates at record lows, increased trading volume Stutland Equities in Chicago. Poor’s 500 index slid 4.61, or though investors will be underscores the market’s 
Even banks seen as strong 0.4 percent, to 1,092.17. The looking at the Fed’s assess-nervousness about how like Goldman Sachs Group Nasdaq composite index ment of the economy in a increased regulation could Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & dropped 7.07, or 0.3 per-statement that will follow the big banks to rewrite their Co. fell sharply. cent, to 2,203.73. meeting on Wednesday. business models. 
The market had climbed Two stocks fell for every Stocks broke a three-day “Goldman Sachs is really most of the day on upbeat one that rose on the New slide Monday as Fed breaking down and volume economic and corporate York Stock Exchange. Chairman Ben Bernanke’s is really picking up. I think it earnings news. The Consolidated volume rose to prospects for confirmation to really legitimizes those con-Conference Board said its 4.8 billion shares from 4.5 another four-year term cerns,” he said. “The per-index of consumer confi-billion shares Monday. brightened. His term ends ception has changed.” 



Following recall, Toyota suspends sales 
Associated Press Carter, Toyota’s group vice presi-said. 
dent and general manager. Toyota sold more than 34,000 WASHINGTON — Toyota Motor The Japanese automaker said the Camrys in December, making the Co. said Tuesday it was suspending sales suspension includes the 2009-midsize sedan America’s best-sell-
U.S. sales of eight recalled models 2010 RAV4, the 2009-2010 Corolla, ing car, with 3.4 percent of the mar-to fix accelerator pedals that stick, the 2007-2010 Camry, the 2009-ket. Sales rose 38 percent from a the latest quality problem to con-2010 Matrix, the 2005-2010 Avalon, year earlier. Sales of the Corolla front the world’s No. 1 automaker. the 2010 Highlander, the 2007-2010 and Matrix, a small sedan and a 
The “stop sale” involves a signifi-Tundra and the 2008-2010 Sequoia. hatchback, totaled 34,220 last cant portion of Toyota’s fleet and Aaron Bragman, an auto analyst month, with 3.3 percent of the mar-some of its most popular vehicles, for the consulting firm IHS Global ket and sales up nearly 55 percent including the Camry and Corolla. As Insight in Troy, Mich., said Toyota from December of 2008. part of the plan, Toyota is halting typically sells about 65,000 Camrys It was unclear how long Toyota production at five manufacturing and Corollas per month, and the would suspend production of the facilities for the week of Feb. 1 “to suspension of sales could strike the vehicles. In an e-mail to employees, assess and coordinate activities.” company’s bottom line and reputa-company officials said, “we don’t There are 2.3 million vehicles tion for quality. know yet how long this pause will involved in the recall, which was “That’s huge if they can’t sell last but we will make every effort to announced last week. these and they don’t have a fix resume production soon.” Toyota 
“This action is necessary until a identified. They need to go and get officials did not immediately return remedy is finalized,” said Bob a solution to this fast,” Bragman phone messages. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 8 Wednesday, January 27, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Matt Gamber Amanda Grey Chris Masoud John Cameron Andrew Owens Graphics Scene Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gamble Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 


State of the University 
At 9 p.m. tonight, President Barack Obama will deliver the annual State of the Union Address to the rest of the country. His speech is guaranteed to cover all of the topics at the forefront of the public’s collec­tive mind, espe-Andy Ziccarellicially health care reform, the econ-
Moment of 
omy, unemploy-
Inertia 
ment and his strategy for the wars we are fighting overseas. Using this as a guide, I think it is important that we use this opportunity to not only look at the topics that affect all of us nationally, but to focus the dis­cussion to Notre Dame-specific topics and policies that directly affect us daily. In that spirit, I am proposing the inaugu­ral State of the University Address. 
In light of recent events published in these very pages, the topic that has been at the forefront of everybody’s mind is the treatment of and the culture sur­rounding GLBTQ students at Notre Dame. Now, the topic has been hashed and rehashed several times already over the past few weeks, by people far more qualified to talk about it than I, so I will do everyone a favor by not recapping it again. We all know the issue. I can, how­ever, speak to the importance of the issue to the student body. A forum is scheduled to take place soon to openly discuss the issue, and all students and faculty are invited to attend. This is a wonderful first step, a necessary first step, and I can only hope that there are members of the administration in atten­dance to listen. Obviously, I am in no position to tell the University what to do, but it should give those in Main Building pause, and make them think about exactly who they are here for. If there is such a strong, seemingly unified push by the student body over a single issue, at the very least, there should be an oppor­tunity where the students have a chance to interact with the powers that be. Because if they aren’t here to look out for the students and what we think is important, then what are they here for? 
The next issue that needs to be dis­cussed is the issue of off-campus safety. For whatever reason, a significant por­tion of upperclassmen decide to move into the South Bend community, away from the Notre Dame bubble. And, as we all know, there have been some safety problems in student neighborhoods. Just last week, a student was assaulted on Notre Dame Ave. while waiting for the free TRANSPO (which, this incident notwithstanding, is an excellent idea). This is just the most recent incident in a long string of violence, theft and intimi­dation directed at Notre Dame students in South Bend. I realize that the University has no jurisdiction over what happens outside of the campus bubble, and the responsibility does not necessar­ily fall on them. So we, as students and responsible young adults, need to take that responsibility and find ways to interact positively with authorities and neighbors in the community to protect ourselves and make everybody’s life bet­ter, not just ours. 
While it may seem trivial in light of other topics, the health of the Notre Dame football program can and should be a major topic on campus. Those who think that football is not important are ignoring the impact that a successful team has had on the status of the University historically. To be blunt, with­out championship football over the years, Notre Dame would not have developed into the nation’s preeminent Catholic university. And, like it or not, football is permanently a part of our heritage, and to let it wallow in medioc­rity would be doing the university a tremendous disservice, not only to future students, but especially to our past. Recognizing this, a leadership change was made late last year. While we won’t know the result of this change for quite some time, we should embrace and support coach Brian Kelly, knowing full well that a return to glory makes the entire University a better place. 
And just because today happens to be my day to write, I took the liberty of writing this address. This by no means, however, should be the final word on any these topics, and the discussion should not be limited to what I described above. Don’t let me speak for the entire student body. If any of you out there have a concern or would like to raise an issue, do something about it. Start a Facebook group, gather signatures for a petition, or write a Viewpoint Letter to the Editor (it really is the best way to start a campus-wide discussion). The ImproveND survey that was just sent out was a great first step. Now go make your voice heard. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a junior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“How does a project get to be a yearbehind schedule? One day at atime.” 
Fred Brooks software engineer 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The universe may not always playfair, but at least it's got a hell of asense of humor.” 
Michael Patrick King
U.S. director 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 

Wednesday, January 27, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

New policy avoids questions 
Tim Dougherty’s guest column, (“A Foreign New Policy,” Jan.25) eloquently expounds on one of the fundamental aspects of Notre Dame’s football tradi­tion: our national scheduling philosophy. I agree with Tim, and want to focus on debunking one pop­ular counterargument that consistently arises from the Notre Dame Athletic Department and others as an excuse for the current scheduling model. 
The counterargument goes something like “deluded alums would like to play Top 25 teams every week, and that’s just not possible.” First of all, nobody wants this, trust me. It is obviously ludi­crous, and responding to it constitutes tilting at windmills in an effort to distract us from more real­istic issues. We alums and fans simply want to see a quality schedule that can give Notre Dame a solid chance to be qualified and prepared for a National Championship run. In general, this means 3-5 games against marquee teams. Inevitably top teams have their down years (see: Michigan 2008­present). The 2005 schedule, in fact, is a great modern model — an interesting and geographical­ly-diverse schedule that featured some very tough games, without a murderer’s row. 
I want to see these questions, not strawmen, addressed by AD Jack Swarbrick: 
1. 
What is wrong with having four marquee games per year? 

2. 
Why do you think two repetitive marquee games are enough to satiate fan interest and build a National Championship season? 

3. 
Since the majority of scheduling decisions are made with a focus on maximizing revenue, do you believe that there is long-term financial viability to the 7-4-1 format with redundant match-ups against already-uninteresting opponents? Perhaps the answer can include average football weekend bookstore sales along with consumer spending in greater South Bend for 2009 vs. 2005. 


Swarbrick is in a unique position to make a rela­tively immediate impact. Though football schedules are usually set a decade in advance, there are holes in each schedule from 2011 forward. The current NBC contract (requiring NBC to broadcast eight “home” games) expires in 2015; even if it can’t be restructured in the short term, a new and more logical deal could be struck for 2016 onward. 
John Cogill 
alumnus class of 2008 Jan. 26 



ND emphasizes smoking policy 
I would like express my disgust at this University’s brutal and on-going war against smokers. Not only is smoking pro­hibited in dormotories and lecture halls, cigarettes are not even sold on campus! But now, in compliance with a diktat issued by the useless jobsworth who incompetently run St. Joseph County, students and staff must maintain a minimum distance of 25 feet from the perimeter of every building if they wish to smoke. It is already an outrage that people have to suffer the indignity of being forced to go outside to smoke, but this new policy is an even worse humiliation and so dra­conian and fascistic it would make Hitler blush. If non-smok­ers are too precious and delicate to endure a small whiff of second-hand smoke then they should wear surgical masks. I will comply with Notre Dame’s anti-smoking policy, but only under protest. And if anyone looks at me askance while I’m smoking 25 feet away from the perimeter of a building I will blow a big cloud of smoke in his or her face and laugh. 
Benjamin Chisholm 
law studemt off campus Jan. 21 



COLLEGE NEWS NETWORK 
Haiti quake brings dose of reality 

I don’t know about you, but images of the tragedy in Haiti made me feel pretty silly about having paid so much attention recently to Tiger Woods’ sex life, Harry Reid’s gaffes or Conan O’Brien’s future. There’s nothing like real pain and suffer-Gregorying to make us real-
Rodriguez
ize that the stuff we tend to obsess about 

The Arbiter 
can be pretty mean­ingless. 

While interviewing a writer in a hotel lobby in Bucharest, Romania, last October, he glanced at the CNN coverage of the “balloon boy” aftermath and interrupted himself to ask, “Is that what you people in America care about?” 
Yes, I confessed, and tried my best to explain the connection between our fren­zied response to mostly meaningless, man­ufactured dramas and bungee jumping. 
In relatively strifeless, wealthy and sta­ble democracies we seek to add an ele­ment of excitement to our predictable lives by say, jumping off Colorado’s Royal Gorge Bridge attached to a rubberized cord. We engage, in other words, in ritualized, con­trolled risk-taking to make us feel like we are really alive. Taking sides in trumped-up controversies, or just watching a less-than-earthshaking disaster unfold, is a similar civic phenomenon. In a nation where individual isolation is becoming the order of the day, ritualized contention and alarm over almost anything makes us feel like we’re connected, part of something important and in the thick of things. 
Especially true with the majority of political scandals. You could say that all the moral outrage over a politician’s sex life or slip of the tongue deceives us into thinking we make a difference within the halls of power. As University of California Santa Cruz sociologist Andrew Szasz refers to it, these recurrent episodes are a little like professional wrestling. Like a WWE match, scandals demand a suspen­sion of disbelief, “this time in the phoni­ness of what passes daily for democratic participation. One is rewarded with the feeling of witnessing and being swept up in important political events. Nonparticipation is replaced for the moment by exciting, spectator participa­tion.” 
And the end result? The public feels good about its involvement, the political system is stabilized, and the hard issues go on as ignored as ever. 
In other words, fights, scandals and recurrent moral outrage give a fragment­ed nation the illusion that we’re all involved in something important, even while we’re not. In particular, we are suckers for a battle. Frame anything as a dispute, as “us versus them,” or as a potential “gotcha,” and you have our attention. If there’s a potential winner or loser, and especially if the mighty can be made to fall in a way that’s advantageous to our side, we’re deeply engaged. However meaningless, corrosive or inau­thentic, we’ll choose contention over rational debate any day. With knee-jerk ease, it allows us to take sides, reaffirm our biases and feel superior to our ene­mies. 
The devolution of media and the rise of the blogosphere are making us even more of a controversy and outrage-obsessed society. Because news media tends to focus on niche markets, outlets leverage their biases to engage their specialized audiences. That explains why a December study by the Project for Excellence in Journalism suggests that bloggers are sig­nificantly more likely to focus on contro­versy than is the mainstream media. In the week of Nov. 30, for instance, when the biggest story in mainstream news was President Obama’s decision to send an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan, the blogosphere was focusing on the con­troversies over the Swiss ban on minarets and the hacked e-mails from a British cli­mate change research unit. 
The great American jurist Oliver Wendell Holmes invented what he called the hydrostatic paradox of controversy. If you take a bent tube, he said, one arm of which is the size of a pipestem and the other big enough to hold the ocean, and fill it with water, the liquid will stand at the same height in one arm as in the other. “Controversy,” he continued, “equalizes fools and wise men in the same way. And the fools know it.” 
There is nothing wrong with a good public fight over important issues. But beating any little thing into a froth of dis­putation– Jay vs. Conan! Tiger vs. his wed­ding vows! Reid vs. phantom offended black folk! — is a criminal waste of our civic energy. 
It’s also subject to the law of diminishing returns. You can only bungee jump so many times before the thrill is gone. That means the fights we pick and the scandals we chase are going to have to get a whole lot messier to keep us tuned in. 
This column first ran in the Jan. 11 edition of The Arbiter, the daily newspaper serving Boise State University . 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Planning: An entire industry has devel­oped around it. Self-help, motivation and time-management gurus like Stephen Covey, Anthony Robbins, Gary Ryan Blair and Julie Morgenstern record tapes, write books and design 
Tina Korbe 
products to encour­age their clients to 

The Arkansas 
understand thema-

Traveler 
selves better, to set goals and to sched­ule every second of every day — and they get paid for their efforts. 
But how important is it, really? If we fail to plan, do we really plan to fail? Is a goal not written really just a wish? If we don’t know where we’re going, will any road really take us there? 
Google “goal setting” and “goal setting statistics” and nothing very substantive appears. In fact, the third result for “goal 

Plan the work, work the plan 
setting statistics” — an Ezine article enti­tled “Goal Setting — My Disappointing Discovery” — debunks a popular story fre­quently told in support of planning. Turns out the seemingly only survey to establish the efficacy of setting goals was also a non-survey. That is, no one ever conducted it — at least, according to the article. 
Still, despite this dearth of readily-avail­able-online information, it’s difficult to deny the wisdom and worth of mentally preparing for the future. After all, the practice of planning is far older than the Internet. Aesop, for example, wrote “It is thrifty to prepare today for the wants of tomorrow” somewhere around the sixth or seventh century B.C. 
Bottom line: If it weren’t important, why would anyone spend $39.95 on a planner 
— the price of the Franklin Covey “Classic” daily planning pages? 
Daily, you and I experience crossroads. “Should I eat this donut?” “Should I go to class?” “Should I speak out about what I believe?” And, at those crossroads, it’s eas­ier to say “no” to what we don’t want when we know what we do want. And the best way I know of to establish what I want is to set a goal or two. Maybe the same is true for you. 
The Traveler staff, at least, rediscovered the importance of setting goals this week. At our midyear “retreat,” we clarified what we hope to accomplish this semester. In the weeks ahead, we plan to produce more Web content, utilize multimedia more reg­ularly and investigate university issues more deeply, particularly by creating at least one package about a charged topic that tells the story through text, photos and video. 
University officials, too, obviously under­stand the importance of establishing objec­tives. One goal they’ve set, according to the UA Human Resources Diversity Web site, is “to enhance educational diversity” by inte­grating “individuals from varied back­grounds and with varied characteristics” into the campus community. Such a stated objective surely makes it easier for UA fac­ulty, staff and students alike to say “no” to suspicion, disrespect and elitism so as to say “yes” to trust, kindness and the humili­ty required to learn. It’s to that issue of “diversity” that we’ve dedicated this issue, and we hope it inspires. 
This column first ran in the Jan. 11 edition of The Arkansas Traveler, the daily newspaper serving University ofArkansas . 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 



Scene

page 10 Wednesday, January 27, 2010 
Dear Scene, 
I’ve worked myself 
into quite a situation. 
I’ve fancied this lovely 
girl for a while, but she’s 
placed me squarely in the 

middle of the friend zone with no easily accessible exits. Don’t get me wrong, I enjoy being her friend, but I’m in it for a little more than that, ya dig? So I moved on to her roommate in an attempt to execute the room­mate switch (even though nobody in the history of Western civilization has been able to execute the roommate switch) but she doesn’t seem to feel the way that I do either. Now I’m in a tough situation with both of them. What do I do? Can I salvage this? 
Signed, 
Friend Zone Resident 


Dear Resident, 
I assume you have one of three 
motives for trying to execute the 
tricky roommate switch. 
One, you are just 
plain tired of 
pining after 
Lovely Girl 
and want 
someone new yet con­venient. Moving on to the clos­est breathin female both la and ineffective. You’re never goin forget about Lovely Girl i you can’t be bothered to leave her house to meet someone new. 
Two, you think Lovely Girl is too oblivious or cruel to move you into the relationship zone, so you’re planning on your affair with the roommate to awaken her jealousy and secret “twu luv.” Nope! If Lovely Girl really does like you as more than a friend, scam­ming on her roommate will just get her mad at the both of you. 
Three, going after Roommate is just part of your fantasy to act out that new Britney Spears song. In which case you are admirably ambitious. 
But whatever of these three ulterior motives you have, you are still screwed because neither of these girls is willing to relocate you to your pre­ferred relationship zip code. You’ve been rejected outright, but you might be able to save the friendship — if you wan A sup ­platonic nigh out with one or both could help erase the a ­wardness and replace it with some funny stories. 
But, as O-Town said, if you want it all or nothing at all, then I’d suggest avoiding Lovely Girl’s house for a while. Run into Lovely Girl for lunch sometime, but by all means retain your dignity and don’t be clingy. That’s just gross. 
Sincerely, 


Scene 


granting Lux eman­cipation, the judge gives joint custody to Baze and Cate. Lux struggles with accepting this deci­sion, as the rejec­tion from being given up for adop­tion still stings. After living her life jumping from foster home to foster home, Lux must adjust to an entirely new family situation that is quite differ­ent from what she is used to. With the entrance of just one teenage girl into their lives, all par­ties involved, includ-

By BRANDY CERNE 
Scene Writer 

Do you spend your nights watching reruns of the deceased “Gilmore Girls” and “Everwood,” thinking, “Why don’t they make shows like this anymore?” If so, the answer is that they do. Or at least the CW does, with its newest show “Life Unexpected.” Mixing clever dialogue with heartfelt drama proves a winning combination for the show, just as it was for those former WB shows. 
“Life Unexpected” revolves around the reunion of 16 -year-old Lux (Brittany Robertson) with her birth parents. She only wants to find them in order to get their signatures for her emancipation form. Her mother Cate, played by “Roswell” alum Shiri Appleby, gave Lux up for adoption after she became pregnant in high school by quarterback Baze (Kristoffer Polaha). Baze is an irre­sponsible bar owner who tries to accept the fact that he has a daughter he did not know about, while radio-host Cate is forced to deal with her own issues of giving up her child, pushed to the back of her mind for many years. 
Lux is also forced to tackle her own emotional problems that coincide with meeting her birth parents. Instead of 

ing Cate’s fiancé (played by Kerr Smith, formerly of “Dawson’s Creek”) and Baze’s friends, must change their perceptions of how they expected their life to be (hence the title of the show). 
While the description sounds fairly serious, the tone of “Life Unexpected” is lighthearted and warm. The dia­logue is humorous and believable, filled with references from the 1990s. It is reminiscent of favorite charac­ters from older WB and CW series, giving the hour-long show a nice pace and familiarity. It is easy to imagine Cate getting along well with Rory from “Gilmore Girls,” or Baze with Bright from “Everwood.” 
Also similar to the WB shows of old is the unique location of Portland, Ore. Quickly becoming known as a hip, artsy and beautiful place to live and visit, it is a perfect setting for these quirky and young characters. By the end of the pilot, you will prob­ably find yourself wanting to live in Portland and be friends with the good-looking and fun characters who have awesome jobs. 
Everything comes together well in “Life Unexpected,” from large parts like the dramatic storyline and gen­uine characters to smaller ones like the alternative soundtrack and trendy wardrobe choices. “Life Unexpected” should appeal to a broad audience. Teenagers will be able to relate to Lux, who is just trying to be accepted. Older adults will see their own strug­gles to be a good parent reflected in the actions and feelings of Cate and Baze. At its core, “Life Unexpected” is about what is means to be a family, whether conventionally or not. 
It may not be as great as “Everwood” or “Felicity” just yet, but “Life Unexpected” does have poten­tial. And with the absence of the real thing, it is a more than suitable replacement. 
After premiering on January 18, 



Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene

Wednesday, January 27, 2010 page 11 

By PATRICK GRIFFIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Rarely would cultural icons Cole Porter, Rihanna and Clint Eastwood find themselves men­tioned in the same thought. With the release of British jazz artist Jamie Cullum’s latest album, how­ever, the previously unrelated con­temporaries are taken on an eclec­tic journey in the pursuit of musi­cal excellence. “The Pursuit,” released in Europe, Asia and Australia last November, is Cullum’s fifth studio album, and his first solo effort since “Catching Tales” was released four years ago. 
The 30-year-old Cullum first burst onto the British music scene when he was 19, a musical savant with an innate wittiness and a knack for the nuances and intrica­cies jazz. Since then, Cullum, often likened to Billy Joel, the piano man himself, has gained notoriety through clever cover tunes, collab­orative efforts and an untiring modern attitude toward the classic jazz heritage. 
The past four years have been a whirlwind of new opportunities for Cullum, who took an entire year off from the studio to guest in other bands, to produce dance music with his brother and to travel. Since his last studio album, he has contributed to two movie sound­tracks. 
Cullum contributed to the sound­track for the 2007 John Cusack film, “Grace is Gone.” His work for the Cusack film earned him enough credibility with film titan Clint Eastwood that Cullum was asked to compose the soundtrack for the 2008 blockbuster “Gran Torino.” The song “Gran Torino,” co-written by Cullum and Eastwood, was nominated for a Golden Globe. The song is featured on the “The Pursuit — Special Edition.” 
For his latest creation, Cullum drew inspiration from Nancy Mitford’s novel, “The Pursuit of Love.” Via his official website, Cullum proclaims, “In life, we pur­sue everything. Life is one long pursuit.” This theme is evident in his most recent songs, which range in subject from nights out with entrancing vixens (Cole Porter’s “Just One of Those Things”) to a proposed agenda of peace and tranquility given global rule (“If I Ruled the World”). 
Andy Morris of Music Week offered infinite praise for the Brit’s latest project: “The Cole Porter cover at the start won’t surprise you, but the house track at the end just might … it’s bold, experimen­tal and the best thing Cullum’s done.” 
In between the first and final track, there is plenty of variety. 
“I’m All Over It” features a driving big band sound with a male-female backing chorus. Cullum proclaims, “She’s a melody that I’ve tried to forget but I can’t,” lamenting a lost love while simultaneously learning to find solace in what still moves him. 
At times, Cullum takes a break from his traditional jazz roots to try his hand at other, more experi­mental styles. Such is the case with “We Run Things,” a funky pop groove that sounds as if it could fall within the repertoire of stars such as Justin Timberlake or Maroon 5. Yet Cullum knows how to stay true to his musical identity, impressing his recognizable style on even the most uncharacteristic songs. 
“The Pursuit” would not be a true Jamie Cullum album without a well-executed cover song. The jazz master’s latest recreation, “Don’t Stop the Music,” is a pleasing spin on the dance hit originally per­formed by Rihanna. Cullum snatches the tune from the crammed floors of dance joints and instead generates the eccentric atmosphere of the hippest jazz club with a stripped-down piano-driven cadence. 
Cullum succeeds on this album in sticking to his guns while also showing the edgy creativity that has earned him such praise from music enthusiasts. Though he experienced a sort of rebirth — Cullum ditched his old band for this album in favor of Beck’s band and the horn section from Michael Jackson’s “Thriller,” as well as hir­ing longtime friend Greg Wells as producer — “The Pursuit” will please the devoted Cullum fan. For new listeners, the album will pro­vide a comprehensive look into one of the music world’s best-kept secrets. 
Though the album has been released abroad, it is not scheduled to be released in the U.S. until March 2. However, “The Pursuit” may be purchased from iTunes and other music service websites. 


The Pursuit 
Jamie Cullum 
Record label: Verve Best tracks: “Don’t Stop the Music,” “We Run Things” and “I’mAll Over It” 




Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu 
By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Assistant Scene Editor 
After years of domination by 3-D ani­mation, Disney attempted to return to classic 2-D animation with their film “The Princess and the Frog.” Creatively, Disney was wholly successful as the film is charming and fun. In the fact, the 2-D animation is refreshing as a welcome return to the past. Furthermore, the film can be enjoyed by all ages. 
Some may have been doubtful after discovering Disney wanted to add a new princess to their canon. However, the protagonist of the film, Tiana (voiced by Anika Noni Rose), is very worthy. Tiana is the first African-American princess and also a working class girl. “The Princess and the Frog” sends a valuable message that you should work hard for your dream. Inspired by her father, Tiana‘s dream is to open her own restaurant, and she works hard to save her tip money from waitressing to buy her own property. 
Unfortunately, the carefree Prince Naveen (Bruno Campos) complicates her life and her dream after being turned into a frog by the evil, scheming voodoo man Dr. Facilier (Keith David). Unlike the traditional fairytale, when Tiana kisses Prince Naveen in his frog form she turns into an amphibian as well. While she teaches him about hard work and responsibility, along the way Naveen may also teach Tiana a thing or two about enjoying life. 
The two go on a wild adventure down the Louisiana bayou encountering friends and foes along the way. The cast of characters includes the fun-loving, trumpet-playing alligator Louis (Michael-Leon Wooley), the lovesick Cajun firefly Ray (Jim Cummings), and the blind Voodoo woman Mama Odie (Jenifer Lewis) who might be able to help the two frogs turn back into humans. Louis sim­ply wants to play his music for audiences to enjoy, but that is dif­

cast of voice actors is excellent and is rounded out by Oprah, Jennifer Cody, Terrence Howard and John Goodman in supporting roles. 
The film is set in the French Quarter of New Orleans in the roaring 20s and the setting itself becomes another character. The film demonstrates all sides of the historic city, from the dilapidated cot­tages of the poorer area, where Tiana is from, to the extremely wealthy mansions of her friend Lottie. 
In addition, the mixture of jazz, zyde­co, blues and gospel music only aids in transporting the viewers to New Orleans. When Prince Naveen dances on the city’s streets, you can almost smell the gumbo and crawfish. Rose, of “Dreamgirls” fame, has an incredible voice, and the musical numbers in the film are fun and reminiscent of other Disney classics. The soundtrack includes 10 original songs and seven instrumental pieces. 
Dr. Facilier’s musical number, howev­er, is downright scary. He calls upon evil spirits to help him with his magic, and also to track down Naveen and it would be unsurprising to discover that he might frighten some children. He is a menacing figure, who deserves to be in the ranks of other nefarious Disney vil­lains such as Jafar, Cruella de Vil, Gaston and Captain Hook. But, his evil is counteracted by the love and humor of Tiana and her new friends. 
“The Princess and the Frog” tries to send a message of working hard to achieve your dreams. And it encourages its young viewers to dream big. However, Tiana may in the end get help from her wealthy beau, which makes the ending slightly unrelatable for every lit­tle girl. 
Unfortunately, the film did not receive the record movie sales it deserved. But Disney will likely make up for that with all the new Disney merchandise as Tiana joins other princesses Belle, Ariel, Cinderella, Briar Rose, Jasmine and Pocahontas. And this strong independent heroine deserves that. 
In the end, “The Princess and the Frog” is a fantastic movie that should delight all audiences. It has the fun and goofiness for children, and the wittiness and heart for older audiences. Disney deserves to hop away with the prize of best comeback with this 2-D pleaser. 


The Princess and the Frog 

Starring the voices of: Anika Noni Rose, Bruno Campos, Keith David and Oprah Winfrey Directors: John Musker and Ron Clements 

Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 27, 2010 

AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Nadal injures knee, drops out of Aussie Open 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Andy Murray had been warned about the fireworks, the crackle and dazzling burst of color that lights the sky to mark Australia Day celebrations. 
So the pyrotechnics came as no surprise in the second set against defending champion Rafael Nadal. What he didn’t expect was the fizzle at the end. 
Nadal quit their quarterfinal while trailing 6-3, 7-6 (2), 3-0 Tuesday night, not long after he’d taken a medical timeout to treat his right knee. His conces­sion came five games and a tiebreaker after he tripped and fell following the fireworks delay at Rod Laver Arena. 
Andy Roddick also needed a medical timeout — after the first set of his earlier match against No. 14 Marin Cilic. His sore right shoulder was making his fingers numb. 
Roddick played on for another four sets. But, like Nadal, he was gone in the quarterfinals. Cilic advanced 7-6 (4), 6-3, 3-6, 2-6, 6-3 and will meet Murray in the semifinals. 
Murray was convinced he would have beaten Nadal even if the match had gone the distance. He’s also confident of overturn­ing his last result against Cilic — a loss at the U.S. Open — and reaching his second Grand Slam final. 
“When the big moments came in the match, I thought I dictated what happened,” Murray said. “From my side, I played really well and deserved to be up when the match was stopped.” 
Nadal tweaked his knee in the 11th game of a second set that had already been interrupted for nine minutes by fireworks. Both players had been told in advance about the break, although both took time to readjust to match conditions. 
Nadal’s fall six games later sent a murmur around the stadi­um, but he eased concern by playing a shot by instinct as he sat near the baseline. Murray won that point, but Nadal held serve in the game and celebrated with a flurry of wild, double-arm pumps as if he’d won a final. 
He didn’t show any outward signs of being hurt until calling for a medical timeout while serv­ing at 0-1 and 15-all in the third set. He took a three-minute break while the trainer worked on his right knee. He played only 13 more points before walking to the net and shaking Murray’s hand. 
Nadal said he didn’t want to risk long-term damage. Knee tendinitis sidelined him for long periods last season, preventing him from defending his Wimbledon title. 
“Is not a lot of history because was during the match ... in the end of the second set in one drop,” Nadal said. “And I felt similar thing to what I had last year. 
“After that I can’t go on ... was impossible to win the match. So I said, ‘Well, no repeat the same mistake like I had last year.’ I go to the limit, but not cross the limit, no?” 
Nadal held off fellow Spaniard Fernando Verdasco in a five-set semifinal last year that was the longest match in the tourna­ment’s history before beating Roger Federer in five sets in the final. 
Federer is still in the equation this year at Melbourne Park, where he is aiming for a fourth Australian title and a 16th Grand Slam crown. 
He plays Nikolay Davydenko in the quarterfinals Wednesday and is on a two-match losing streak against the Russian after win­ning their first dozen head-to-heads. 

The winner of that match will play the victor of 2008 champion Novak Djokovic vs. Jo-Wilfried Tsonga — a rematch of the final from two years ago. 
Serena and Venus Williams need wins Wednesday to set up a sisters semifinal: Four-time champion and No. 1-ranked Serena faces No. 7 Victoria Azarenka and sixth-seeded Venus takes on China’s Li Na. 
Former No. 1 Justine Henin resumed her strong comeback by beating Nadia Petrova 7-6 (3), 7­5 to reach the semifinals. She next plays 2008 Wimbledon semifinalist Zheng Jie, who beat Maria Kirilenko 6-1, 6-3 in the other quarterfinal. 
Henin quit in May 2008 while holding the No. 1 ranking. She is now playing as a wild card and is two wins from becoming the sec­ond Belgian in as many Grand Slam tournaments to win in her comeback from retirement. Kim Clijsters won the U.S. Open in September after two years off to get married and have a baby. 
Roddick took off the end of last season to recover from a knee injury. Now he’s got a shoulder to worry about. 
The 27-year-old Roddick has lost four Grand Slam finals, including last year’s five-set Wimbledon thriller against Federer, since winning his only major at the 2003 U.S. Open. The time between then and now rep­resents the longest title drought for American men in Grand Slam singles. 
The wait has been much longer for Britain, which hasn’t had a men’s major winner since Fred Perry in 1936. Nadal pre­dicted Murray could end the wait by winning this title. 
“For Andy, I think he deserves to win his first Grand Slam,” Nadal said. “And I think he’s going to do it. 
“There’s a very good chance for him. First thing, he’s playing very well. Second thing, he’s already in the semifinals. He’s only two matches away.” 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Obama thanks Wildcats for Haiti fundraiser 
heads. “The way you guys are going, ple bid on items ranging from at the Colonial Life Arena. 
Associated Press 
“There is that tendency once that may happen,” Obama autographed pictures to dinner “It shows a lot of character 

COLUMBIA, S.C. — President you get to number one to let answered. at the coach’s home with and I hope that carries over,” the Barack Obama called Kentucky down a little bit,” Obama said. Obama enjoyed talking basket-actress—and Wildcat megafan— president continued. “Some of coach John Calipari to praise the Maybe the Wildcats should pay ball with the undefeated Ashley Judd. The university says you will be going to the NBA. program—and to caution the attention. Obama, who regularly Wildcats (19-0), who play at that meal went for $98,100. Some of you are going to be top-ranked Wildcats. played pickup games during his South Carolina on Tuesday With matching funds, the doing other things with your 
The country’s No. 1 college run for president, last year night. But the president was just school said the money raised by lives, but I hope that spirit of basketball fan thanked Calipari picked champion North Carolina as complimentary about the the Wildcats surpassed $1 mil-doing for others continues.” and his players Tuesday for to win it all in his NCAA bracket. team’s efforts to help those dev-lion. Other programs have also helping to raise more than $1 Kentucky freshman DeMarcus astated in Haiti by the cata-“I just want to let you guys taken up the call to help Haiti. million as part of the “Hoops for Cousins told Obama the team strophic earthquake earlier this know that I am very, very proud Notre Dame said it received Haiti” telethon. Then Obama looked forward to meeting the month. of what you guys did,” Obama more than $250,000 for Haitian counseled them to keep their president at the White House Calipari, past and current told the team, wearing blue relief through men’s and focus and not let their new posi-after the season—a rite of pas-players and others answered “Hoops for Haiti” T-shirts and women’s basketball games last tion atop the polls go to their sage for NCAA champions. phones from donors while peo-crowded around a white phone weekend. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Claire Cleary: Are you OK? Veronica Corningstone: Uh, Mr. 

not go it alone. Notre Dame has John Beckwith: Yeah, I'm just Burgundy? Helen said that youFOR RENT WANTED PERSONAL many resources in place to assist swinging the jib for your dad, star-needed to see me. 
you. If you or someone you love board. Ron Burgundy: Oh, Miss 
needs confidential support or assis-Claire Cleary: But starboard's *this* Corningstone. I wasn't expecting 

Off-Campus housing 2010-2011, Schwab from NY - Call Dad! I love tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at way. company. Just doing my workout. Irish Crossings, Dublin Village 2,3,4 you so much, and you hurt me 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For John Beckwith: That's right. What Tuesday's arms and back. bedrooms still available. Furnished Babysitter needed for ND family, every day. more information, visit ND's web am I thinking? I'm used to sailing Veronica Corningstone: Well, you and UnFurnished. Hurry only a few Fri. a.m.'s 8:30-12:30 beg. 2/12; site: Down Under with the Kiwis so asked me to come by, sir. left. Best living, safety, Value. CES $25/day If you or someone you care about http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu everything's backwards. Even the Ron Burgundy: Oh, did I? Property Management, 574-968-Call 574-204-2642 has been sexually assaulted, we toilets, when you flush them, the Veronica Corningstone: Yes. 0112 can help. For more information, visit Do the right thing: turn off the lights water spins the opposite way. Ron Burgundy: Ohh, it's the deep 
Notre Dame's website: in unused rooms, recycle paper, Really freaks you out the first time burn. Oh, it's so deep. Oh, I can gradrentals.viewwork.com http.csap.nd.edu and use an electric hand dryer. you see it. barely lift my right arm 'cause I did so many. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, January 27, 2010 
page 13 

NCAA Division I AP Women’s Basketball Rankings 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 NOTRE DAME 4 4 Ohio State 5 5 Tennessee 3 6 Nebraska 7 7 Duke 6 8 Texas A&M 9 9 Georgia 8 10 Xavier 11 11 Oklahoma 13 12 North Carolina 14 13 Florida State 15 14 Baylor 10 15 Oklahoma State 12 16 West Virginia 16 17 Georgetown 19 18 LSU 18 19 Texas 20 20 TCU 23 21 Virginia 25 22 Iowa State NR 23 Penn State NR 24 Green Bay 17 25 Georgia Tech 22 
NCAA Division I USA Today Women’s Basketball Rankings 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 NOTRE DAME 5 4 Nebraska 6 5 Tennessee 3 6 Ohio State 4 7 Duke 7 8 Texas A&M 9 9 Georgia 8 10 Xavier 10 11 West Virginia 11 12 Oklahoma 13 13 North Carolina 15 14 Florida State 16 15 Georgetown 18 16 Baylor 12 17 Oklahoma State 17 18 Iowa State 21 19 LSU 19 20 Virginia 22 21 TCU 24 22 Green Bay 14 23 Kentucky 25 24 Vanderbilt 20 25 Texas 23 


around the dial 
NCAA Basketball 
Notre Dame at Villanova 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Bulls at Thunder 8 p.m., CSN 
NBA 

Crittenton pleads guilty to gun charge 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Washington Wizards guard Javaris Crittenton pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor gun charge Monday, explaining he had a pistol because he feared team­mate Gilbert Arenas would shoot him or blow up his car after the two argued over a card game. 
The hearing marked the first time authorities con­firmed Crittenton was the other player involved in the confrontation with Arenas, who pleaded guilty Jan. 15 to a felony gun charge. 
D.C. Superior Court Senior Judge Bruce Beaudin sentenced Crittenton, 22, to a year of unsupervised probation after Crittenton pleaded guilty to misdemeanor pos­session of an unregistered firearm. Beaudin ordered Crittenton to mentor young people in Washington and to help with relief efforts for Haiti. 
Beaudin didn’t order a specific amount of commu­nity service but said his lawyer must report regular­ly on the work. 
Crittenton must also pay a $1,000 fine and $250 into a victims’ fund. 
“I accept full responsibili­ty for my bad judgment, my terrible mistake,” Crittenton, who appeared in court wearing a gray suit and glasses, told the judge as he entered the plea. “I’m deeply sorry to the city of Washington, to the Wizards, to my family and to the NBA for this embarrassment.” 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Chris Kavanaugh said the two players first clashed Dec. 19 over a card game on a team flight back from a game in Phoenix. Arenas said he was too old for a fistfight and threatened to shoot Crittenton in the face, and Crittenton replied he would shoot Arenas in his surgically repaired knee, Kavanaugh said. 
Later, Arenas said he would blow up or burn Crittenton’s car, Kavanaugh said. 
Two days later, Crittenton put his legally owned, unloaded handgun into his backpack before he left his apartment in Arlington, Va., for practice at the Verizon Center, Kavanaugh said. 
Crittenton put the back­pack in his locker and went to see team trainers, Kavanaugh said. When he returned he saw several guns — Crittenton’s lawyer said there were three, not four, as previously reported — on a chair in front of his locker with a sign saying, “Pick 1.” 
Crittenton tossed one of the guns on the floor and told Arenas to get the weapons off the chair. Then, fearing for his safety, Crittenton took the handgun out of his backpack and showed it to Arenas, Kavanaugh said. 
IN BRIEF 
Super Bowl ad involving Tebow sparks controversy 
NEW YORK — CBS responded to com­plaints over a conservative group’s planned Super Bowl ad featuring football star Tim Tebow by saying that it had eased restrictions on advocacy ads and would consider “responsibly produced” ones for open spots in its Feb. 7 broadcast. 
CBS Corp. said Tuesday it had received numerous e-mails — both critical and supportive — since a coalition of women’s groups began a protest campaign Monday against the ad, which the critics say will use Tebow and his mother to convey an anti-abortion message. 
Funded by the conservative Christian group Focus on the Family, the 30-second ad is expected to recount the story of Pam Tebow’s pregnancy in 1987. After getting sick during a mission trip to the Philippines, she ignored a recommenda­tion by doctors to abort her fifth child. She later gave birth to Tim, who won the 2007 Heisman Trophy and helped his Florida team win two BCS championships. 
Santana throws off mound for first time since surgery 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — New York Mets ace Johan Santana threw off a mound for the first time since elbow surgery last Sept. 1 and said he felt good. 
The two-time Cy Young Award winner threw 24 pitches over six minutes Tuesday morning on the second day of the team’s voluntary mini-camp. It was his first time off a mound since Aug. 20. 
“I feel pretty good,” Santana said. “The ball was coming out pretty good. I feel like I am doing my mechanics without any problems, so that was big. And I don’t feel anything in my arm, so I think everything should be all right.” 
Santana’s excitement showed when he reacted to a changeup that showed the typical action hitters hate. 
“It had that nice motion, so it’s good to see that this early because that tells me we are way ahead of the game,” Santana said. 
Garland, Padres agree to one-year deal for 2010 
SAN DIEGO — People familiar with the negotiations say free agent right-hander Jon Garland and the San Diego Padres have agreed to a $5.3 million, one ­year contract. 
The three people spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity Tuesday because the agreement had not been announced. 
Garland was 11-13 with a 4.01 ERA last year with Arizona and the Los Angeles Dodgers. The Southern California native was with the Chicago White Sox when they won the 2005 World Series. 
Garland will make $4.7 million this season, with a mutual option for $6.75 million in 2011. If the Padres decline, he gets a $600,000 buyout. If Garland rejects it, the buyout is $300,000. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, January 27, 2010 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Roddick falters again, exits in quarterfinals 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Andy Roddick ended a tumul­tuous run at the Australian Open after a week that included a tumble, verbal scuffles with on-court officials and playing with a shoulder injury Tuesday before losing in five sets. 
The only good news for Roddick is that— so far — he hasn’t been fined for berating a chair umpire during what he has since referred to as an “episode” in the second round. 
The No. 7-seeded Roddick endured pain that began in the first set of his quarterfinal and lost 7-6 (4), 6-3, 3-6, 2-6, 6-3 to Marin Cilic of Croatia. 
His loss extended a six-year drought for American men at the majors. Roddick was the last American man to win a Grand Slam singles trophy at the 2003 
U.S. Open. 
“By the end of the first set, I was pretty numb in the bottom two fingers,” Roddick said. “I could still hit pretty hard, I was just having trouble controlling it.” 
Roddick sought medical treat­ment on his right shoulder after the first-set tiebreaker. He need­ed more attention while losing the second set, but played on after the trainer told him there wasn’t a high risk of permanent damage. He rallied to win the next two sets and force a fifth set before fading when Cilic’s serving improved. 
He said he wasn’t concerned about serious injury. 
“I’m sure we’ll take the prop­er precautions and check it out,” he said. “But at this point I’m not real, real scared about it.” 
Roddick was gracious about praising the 21-year-old Cilic, who ousted U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro in the fourth round and became the first Croatian man to reach an Australian Open semifinal. 
“He’s definitely composed,” Roddick said. “He was the same after he lost two sets, as when he won two sets.” 
“He just goes about his busi­ness, does it the right way, and seems like a very hard worker,” Roddick added. “Unlike a lot of the young guys who are very emotionally up and down, he doesn’t beat on his chest. He stays the course, he’s very delib­erate, he hits the ball very well.” 
Now 27, Roddick speaks at times with the tones of an elder statesman about the game and other players. Other times, he has John McEnroe-style melt­downs over line calls. 
In his first-round match against Thiemo de Bakker, Roddick tripped over the foot of a line judge and took a tumble. He then stood up and reproached the judge: “Move out of the way when you see a player coming!” 
In his post-match news con­ference he said he was unhurt 
— but was still steamed about it: “I ran into one of those immovable objects called a ref­eree,” he said. “Normally they see a player running full speed, they decide to at least move — or catch the player.” 
Then came the second round. Take two. Roddick hurled a pair of profanities at the chair umpire but later acknowledged that he wasn’t “100 percent right.” 
The call in question denied Roddick the win on his first match point. It was ruled out but challenged and determined to be in — the point went to his opponent, Brazilian Thomaz Bellucci, and Roddick got angry that he was deprived a crack at it. 
He went on to win, but con­fronted the chair umpire on his way out. 
“I’m standing there with my racket back — don’t you think I’m going to ... hit it?” Roddick shouted, adding a second pro­fanity at the end. “It’s not your job to predict if I’m going to hit it. It’s your job to decide if I could hit it.” 
MLB 
A’s add Sheets to rotation 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — The Oakland Athletics added another veteran arm to their young rotation, agreeing to terms Tuesday with free-agent righty Ben Sheets on a $10 mil­lion, one-year contract. The 31-year-old Sheets has been plagued by injuries. The four-time NL All-Star didn’t pitch in the majors last season while recovering from elbow surgery but last week held a pitching session for several scouts in Louisiana. 
The A’s sent two representa­tives to watch Sheets throw, director of player personnel Billy Owens and minor league roving pitching instructor Gil Patterson. 
“They liked what they saw,” assistant general manager David Forst said in a phone interview. “Enough to lead us to think that we should pursue this.” 
Sheets spent his first eight major league seasons with the Milwaukee Brewers, going 86­83 with a 3.72 ERA. He struck out a career-best 264 batters in 2004. 
Oakland, which recently re­signed two-time All-Star Justin Duchscherer, still had a spot to fill in the rotation. The A’s were set to formally introduce Sheets at a news conference later Tuesday. 
Sheets will join Duchscherer, Brett Anderson and Dallas Braden — with the other rota­tion spot likely to be filled by either Gio Gonzalez or Trevor Cahill. 
The A’s can’t be sure exactly what they’ll get from either Duchscherer or Sheets since neither pitched in 2009. Duchscherer underwent arthroscopic right elbow sur­gery on March 31 and later was treated for clinical depres­sion. 
GM Billy Beane brought Duchscherer back on an incen­tive-laden one-year contract. 
Both pitchers have said they feel fine physically. 
Sheets underwent elbow sur­gery last February to repair a torn flexor tendon that he hurt in 2008. So, by the start of spring training next month he will be about a year out from the procedure. 

Wednesday, January 27, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
MLB 

Manuel wanted both aces 
NFL 
Raiders hire Jackson to improve offense 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Just like the boisterous fans that pack the ballpark, manager Charlie Manuel wishes the Philadelphia Phillies still had Cliff Lee. 
Six weeks after the two-time NL champions made the block­buster moves to acquire Roy Halladay from Toronto and send Lee to Seattle, Manuel spoke about the deals at a news confer­ence. 
He sounded like a fan when asked how he felt about the team trading away Lee to get Halladay. 
“Halladay is the best pitcher in baseball right now. Lee is a tad behind him. Of course it would’ve been nice to have both of them,” Manuel said Tuesday. “It’d be good to have Halladay, Lee, (Cole) Hamels. I’d be looking good. I might even be buying more expensive furniture than the Mrs. has been buying me lately.” 

The Phillies traded three minor leaguers to the Blue Jays for Halladay, a six-time All-Star who won the 2003 AL Cy Young. Philadelphia then gave Halladay a $60 million, three-year exten­sion through 2013. 
Lee, a former AL Cy Young Award winner, went to the Mariners in a separate deal the same day for three prospects. Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro Jr. said he needed to replenish the farm system after trading seven prospects to get Lee and Halladay. 
Money was a big factor, too. Lee, who will earn $9 million this season, is expected to test free agency next winter, and there’s no guarantee the Phillies would’ve afforded his asking price. 


“Baseball is a business and I understand a lot of things,” Manuel said. “I have my own opinion and suggestions, but like everybody else I have a boss. From a business standpoint, the last two or three years they’ve definitely made good decisions. I trust them.” 
That didn’t stop Manuel from making a pitch to keep Lee. He dreamed about a rotation that includes Halladay, Lee, and Hamels, the 2008 World Series MVP. That certainly would’ve made the Phillies favorites to win their third straight NL pennant, a feat last accomplished by the St. Louis Cardinals from 1942-44. 
“I’ve worked in every capacity in different organizations and I know how things wind down,” Manuel said. “I voiced my opin­ion, but I’m not the guy making the final decision. At the same time, I’m excited about our pitching staff going into the sea­son. I think our pitching to start the season this year is definitely better than it was to start the season last year. It’s an upgrade. I think we’ll be ready to go.” 
Halladay and Hamels will be followed by Joe Blanton, J.A. Happ and either Jamie Moyer or Kyle Kendrick. 
Coming off their second World Series title in franchise history, the Phillies entered last year with a rotation that featured Hamels, Brett Myers, Blanton, Moyer and Chan Ho Park. 
Hamels struggled, Myers had hip surgery in June and returned as a reliever, Moyer lost his start­ing spot to midseason acquisition Pedro Martinez and Park was replaced by Happ. Lee arrived from Cleveland in July and stabi­lized the rotation. He was domi­nant in the playoffs, going 4-0 with a 1.56 ERA in five starts and earning both of Philadelphia’s wins in the World Series against the New York Yankees. 
Lee wanted to stay in Philadelphia and expressed dis­appointment after the trade. Manuel spoke to few people this offseason, choosing to get away and relax at his home in Winter Haven, Fla. He did reach out to Lee, however. 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. — The Oakland Raiders hired Hue Jackson as offensive coordi­nator on Tuesday, hoping the man who helped develop Joe Flacco in Baltimore can do the same for JaMarcus Russell. 
Jackson is the second new assistant hired by the Raiders since the end of the season, joining defensive line coach Mike Waufle. While owner Al Davis has not yet committed to bringing Tom Cable back as head coach in 2010, he has hired two assis­tants with ties to Cable. 
Jackson and Cable worked together on the staff at Cal-State Fullerton in 1990 and at the University of California in 1996. Waufle and Cable also worked together at Cal in the 1990s. 
The Raiders have pointed out Cable’s ties with the new coaches in their news releas­es announcing the hires. Cable is also at the Senior Bowl in Mobile, Ala., this week, although no final deci­sion has been made on his status. 
“We continue to evaluate the staff and make changes to get better achievement,” senior executive John Herrera said. “It’s still an ongoing process.” 
Jackson is expected to take over the play-calling duties from Cable, who did not have an offensive coordina­tor in his first full season as coach. Cable also coached the offensive line and admit­ted after the season that he might have been overextend­ed. 
“I’m hired as the offensive coordinator, and I’ll be the primary play-caller,” Jackson told the Ravens team Web site. “That’s my role. It’s a chance to go out and assist the head coach and be the best offense we can be.” 
Cable endorsed the move to bring Jackson on board. “I think it’s a good decision by the organization,” Cable told National Football Post from the Senior Bowl. “It’s some­one that I’m familiar with. It’s someone that I think can help us take the next step, so we’re all pretty excited about it.” 


The Raiders had one of the worst offenses in the league during a 5-11 campaign last season. They were second-to-last in the league in scor­ing with 197 points and gained the second-fewest yards on the way to their record seventh straight sea­son with at least 11 losses. 
The team showed some improvement after Cable benched Russell midway through the season, scoring 
5.8 more points and gaining more than 100 additional yards of offense per game in the final seven contests started by Bruce Gradkowski and Charlie Frye. 
Russell completed 48.8 percent of his passes, with three touchdowns, 11 inter­ceptions and a 50.0 passer rating that was the lowest in the league since 1998. But Davis still believes in Russell, saying during the season that people needed to have patience. 
Jackson helped Flacco make it to the playoffs in his first two seasons in the NFL with the Ravens and also worked with Carson Palmer as the offensive coordinator at Southern California. Now he wants to develop Russell. 
“This guy was the first player drafted. It’s going to be fun to see if we can get him up and playing the way we all wish that he can per­form,” Jackson told ESPN 1000 in Chicago. “It’s not just about JaMarcus. The quarterback takes on a whole life by itself but it’s the team, the whole offen­sive unit has to perform well around the quarterback.” 
Jackson spent time in California last week, meeting mostly with Davis but also with Cable. He was also mentioned as a possible can­didate to be offensive coordi­nator for the Chicago Bears but chose the Raiders instead. 
He told Ravens.com that the opportunity to work with Davis was part of the attrac­tion in Oakland. 
“What a man,” Jackson said. “He’s one of the guys in this profession that you would like to have an oppor­tunity to sit down and talk with, let alone work for. My conversations with him led me there. Hopefully, things will work as planned, and I think we’re capable of doing it.” 
Along with coaching quar­terbacks, Jackson also has experience as a running backs and receivers coach in the NFL. He worked with a talented receiving corps in Cincinnati with Chad Ochocinco, T.J. Houshmandzadeh and Chris Henry. 
The Raiders got almost no production out of their wide-outs last season, getting only 99 catches from the entire unit. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 27, 2010 

Cats 
continued from page 20 
tell you the last time they lost. We just have to go in there with this confidence.” 
The Wildcats (18-1, 7-0) are coming off an 81-71 win over St. John’s at Madison Square Garden in a game that was tight for the first half or so. Though Villanova’s early-sea­son Big East schedule has included DePaul and Rutgers, the Wildcats have already beaten Marquette twice and posted wins against Georgetown and at Louisville. 
Villanova is led by senior guard Scottie Reynolds, who averages 18.7 points per game and is one of the elite 3-point shooters in the Big East. But the Wildcats also boast depth, with 11 players averaging at least nine minutes per game. 
That might be Notre Dame’s biggest area of concern. The Irish have relied on a seven-man rotation for most of the season with senior Jonathan Peoples and junior Carleton Scott off the bench. Freshman Joey Brooks has seen his min­utes increase in recent weeks but his role has yet to be 
defined. 
Brey, whose reserves did not score a point Saturday, called bench scoring the “most overrat­ed stat in the history of bas­ketball” after the game. 
“If I got three guys than can 
“I want [reserves] to come in and energize us and be good with the ball.” 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
that scoring disparity is what prompted Brey’s chal­lenge for others to step up. 
“We played Syracuse when they were the hottest team in the league, and now we play Villanova and 
get 30 [points], they’re start­ing and playing 38 minutes,” Brey said. “Now, are nights Jon Peoples will score a little bit more for us, and Carleton, and that’s fine. But I don’t want that pressure on them. I want them to come in and energize us and be good with the ball.” 
That recipe has worked for the Irish at times, with senior 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Calvin visits for critical showdown 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will host No. 10 Calvin Wednesday night while looking for its first win of conference play’s second half. The Belles will hope to bust out of a rut in which they have dropped four of seven, but will have to try to 
do  so  against  a  formidable  
foe.  
T h e  K n i g h t s  ( 1 6  -2 ,  8  -1  

MIAA) have lost only one con­ference game, to Hope, the nation’s No. 4 team. 
Calvin is led by a pair of standout forwards in senior Brook VanEck and freshman Carissa VerKaik. The two have combined to average 
28.3 points per game, 16.9 rebounds per game (5.8 offensive) and 4.6 blocks per game. The Knights do not solely rely on their inside game, however, as senior guard Amber Benthem aver­ages 7.1 points per game and sophomore guard Courtney Kurncz averages 6.2 points per game. 
To stop Calvin’s one-two punch, the Belles (10-7, 5-4) will rely on senior forward and captain Anna Kammrath and sophomore forward Kelly Murphy. They will have to limit VanEck and VerKaik’s opportunities by preventing 
offensive rebounding and contesting shots in the paint. Junior guard Liz Wade will be called upon to limit the Knights’ inside-out game by guarding Calvin’s shooters. 
This game will be a pivotal opportunity for the Belles to gain ground in the conference standings. Saint Mary’s is currently third in the MIAA, three games behind Calvin, but four teams are tied just one game behind the Belles. A win could give the Belles the momentum they need to separate themselves from the rest of the pack and push conference-leading Hope. 
Calvin won the first meeting between these two teams, 64­58, on Dec. 11, though Saint Mary’s was never out of the game until the very end. The Belles will hope their home court provides the necessary 
a d v a n t a g e  t o  p u l l  o f f  t h e  
upset.  
S a i n t  M a r y ’s  h o s t s  t h e  

Knights tonight at 7:30 in the Angela Athletic Center. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph@nd.edu 
forwards Luke Harangody and Tim Abromaitis averaging 
25.6 and 18.4 points per game, respectively. Hansbrough, Notre Dame’s next leading scorer, is averag­ing 9.3 points per game, and 
they’re the hottest team in the league,” Brey said. “That’s a great opportunity for us as a team. We’ve just got to get our reps in at practice [Sunday], get well-rested tonight and we’ll be [ready].” 
Tonight’s game will air live on ESPN at 7 p.m. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

OLYMPICS 

Skater Weir criticized for costume 
Associated Press 
Johnny Weir has set fur flying again. 
Friends of Animals has posted an open letter to the figure skater, criticizing him for having fox on one of his costumes and asking him to stop wearing fur. The animal advocacy group also contacted his costume designer, Stephanie Handler, on Tuesday. 
“I totally get the dirtiness of the fur industry and how terri­ble it is to animals. But it’s not something that’s the No. 1 prior­ity in my life,” Weir said Tuesday night. “There are humans dying everyday. There are thousands if not millions of homeless people in New York City. Look at what just hap­pened in Haiti. 
“I tend to focus my energy, if there is a cause, on humans. While that may be callous and bad of me, it’s my choice.” 
Weir loves fashion, and his costumes tend to be on the avant-garde — some would say extreme — side. When the three-time U.S. champion redesigned his free skate cos­tume before nationals, he had Handler add a tuft of white fox fur to the left shoulder. 
Weir said he thought the cos­tume was “lovely,” but Friends of Animals disagreed. Foxes are electrocuted or beaten, and their pelts are obtained by skin­ning the animals alive, said Anai Rhoads, spokeswoman for the group. 
“He’s a role model for a lot of people, including other skaters,” said Priscilla Feral, president of Friends of Animals. “When he makes fun of the suffering of animals that are consumed for this frivolous fashion industry and whose lives are sacrificed so he can wear little tufts of fur on his outfit, that’s fair game for comment.” 


Wednesday, January 27, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 27, 2010 
Friars 
continued from page 20 
ing to climb their way back later in the game has become somewhat of a theme for Irish in the past few games, and McGraw said there needs to be change in defensive attitude for there to be any improve­ment. 
“I can sub earlier if they are not playing up to our expecta­tions,” McGraw said. “But a lot of it is defense. You can’t really control whether the ball is going in, so you have to do it on defense. And we have to rebound.” 
Rebounding has been a recent concern for McGraw, who saw her team outre­bounded 9-1 early against West Virginia. McGraw said the only way to improve is to change the defensive mindset. 
“It’s an attitude. They just have to do their jobs and focus,” McGraw said. 
The Friars (12-7, 3-3) are led by senior guard Chelsea Marandola, who McGraw views as one of the best play­ers in the Big East. 
“Marandola, she is a first-team Big East, really, really good player,” McGraw said. “She is just a very savvy guard. She can do it all. She has a great 3-point shot, she can put it on the floor and she has a nice pull-up. She can do it all.” 
Marandola is leading the team in points per game with 18.3, as well as in steals (41), assists (47) and rebounds per game (4.8). 
McGraw said the only way to defend Marandola is to play 
Recruits 
continued from page 20 
year. Kelly and his staff have done a solid job of securing Weis’ verbal commits, but this year’s class took a major hit over the weekend when run­ning back Giovanni Bernard and defensive end/linebacker Blake Leuders both withdrew their pledges. 
Even with the de-commit­ments, Notre Dame’s recruit­ing class will still be solid, all Whether Kelly will roster and in the 



things consid-be a successful weight room. ered. Irish fans As college 
recruiter and head
don’t want to football fans, we 
coach at Notre Dame
hear it — they love to obsess believe every top won’t be determined over recruiting recruit with the rankings 
by this class. 
grades to qualify should dream of donning blue and gold — but the truth is Notre Dame has been barely mediocre recently, and with a coaching change, the window of opportunity with top high school seniors tends to close rather quickly. 
I’ve been impressed that Kelly has kept most of Weis’ class intact, and the fact that Notre Dame still has a shot with top national prospects like offensive tackles Seantrel Henderson and Matt James, linebacker Christian Jones and defensive lineman Ego Ferguson is some­what remarkable. 
Again, Irish fans don’t want to hear it, but landing any of these guys is going to be tough. Not only do they have offers from some of the nation’s top programs which are led by some of the nation’s top coach­es, but it also wouldn’t take a mastermind to negatively recruit against Notre Dame right now. New coaching staff, solid all-around team defense. 

“We weren’t very successful against [West Virginia senior guard] Liz Lepella,” McGraw said. “Marandola is probably the same type of player, and she probably does a little bit more. There has to be an awareness of where she is in the zone.” 
The Irish intend to answer the Friars’ attack with good team defense, but will also rely heavily upon freshman guard Skylar Diggins, who won Big East freshman of the week honors for the third time this season. She is only the fourth Irish freshman to win the honor three times in a season, 
new offensive and defensive systems, one bowl game in three years — the Urban Meyers of the recruiting world have fresh ammunition, in addition to tried-and-true (well, tried) techniques that criticize the South Bend weather and social scene. 
I want this recruiting cycle to end so the Notre Dame staff can get these verbal commitments in writing, make them official and then move onto the players who will make or break the 
2010 season. 
Those guys are 
already on the 
because there’s 
not much else to 
do in these win­ter months, and hauling in a good class is important to sus­taining a program’s success. 
But whether this becomes a “good class” will be determined not by so-called experts on National Signing Day, but by the results the players deliver dur­ing their Irish careers. And, even more importantly, whether Kelly will be a success­ful recruiter and head coach at Notre Dame certainly won’t be determined by this class. 
It’s important to finish strong and build for the future, but I’m more interested to see what Kelly can do next year, both on the field during the fall and on the recruiting trail during the winter. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
following former players Ruth Riley, Alicia Ratay and Jacqueline Batteast. 
Diggins has also emerged as a scorer for the Irish, scoring a team high 13.5 points per game. 
“My expectations for [Diggins] are really high,” McGraw said. “I expect that she is going to be a great defender, set the tone for our defense and get the press going, and she is going to rebound and also score. She really has got to do every­thing.” 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Poise 
continued from page 20 
offense perfectly while senior cap­tain Ashley Barlow works on intimidating much taller oppo­nents. Fifth-year senior Lindsay Schrader is consistently finding the basket. Freshman Skylar Diggins is in the opposing point guard’s face, arms flailing as she defends what should be the simple act of taking the ball down the court. 
When Notre Dame plays its game, it plays with poise and con­fidence and can rival any team in the country 
Against South Florida on Jan. 12, Notre Dame wasn’t all there to begin the game. They missed wide-open shots and did not defend by their usual standards. 
Up by three with eight minutes to play, Schrader said afterwards, the captains looked at each other and said they’d be okay. They knew that they would win the game, and they did, 81-64. 
Cut to much tougher opponents this week in Louisville and No. 16 West Virginia. 
At Louisville Wednesday night, the Irish found themselves down 12 early but rallied to tie the game at 37 going into halftime. In the second half, they held Louisville without a field goal for more than eight minutes, scored 13 unan­swered and went on to win 78-60. 
Sunday’s game at West Virginia was almost the same story. The Mountaineers led 42-31 at half­time. Two big runs later, Notre Dame came out victorious, 74-66. 
Those two games came after Notre Dame’s loss to No. 1 Connecticut on Jan. 16. The first eight minutes of that contest showed exactly what Notre Dame’s game does not look like — turnovers, awful rebounding, inaccurate shooting. Notre Dame allowed Connecticut’s superior athletes to run up and down the court, scoring with no defensive pressure. For the first time, the cool, experienced squad looked intimidated. 
But that was just eight minutes. 
Yes, the Irish were down 24-4 with no hope of recouping the lead. But from that point on, they played the Huskies almost evenly, getting outscored 46-42. Sure, a 70-46 loss is never something to be proud of, but Notre Dame left with the knowledge that it had played with the best team in the country for the better part of the game. 
It was right about 9:15 p.m. on Jan. 16 when the Irish were last intimidated by an opponent, and it may not happen again this season. 
Even when down against Louisville and West Virginia, the team kept its cool with an internal expectation to win. 
With a loaded Big East schedule still to come, starting with tonight’s game against Providence and ending with one more bout against Connecticut, Notre Dame might want to tip off its sell-out crowds to what they already know. 
The games will be close. The games will be exciting. But the Irish aren’t going to fret over the idea of losing. 
They’re just going to play their game. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Wednesday, January 27, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Wednesday, January 27, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Re-heating up 
Irish hope to continue 


McGraw’s ‘play their post-UConn success 
game’ approach works 
Before virtually every contest, 
By JARED JEDICK 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw tells 
Sports Writer 
reporters that the Irish just need to “play their 
The No. 3 Irish will look to game” and extend their winning ways they’ll be against Providence in the okay. 
Purcell Pavilion at 7 p.m. 
So what Wednesday in another impor­does that tant Big East match-up. 
mean? 
Notre Dame (17-1, 4-1 Big A pressure East) has won its last two Big defense that East games in exciting come-never lets from-behind fashion, but the Irish are hoping for a more tra­
up? Fast Laura Myers breakaways 
ditional win this time around. 
and easy “We love our fans,” Irish layups? Solid coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Sports Writer
3-point “They are so supportive and shooting? 
they know when we really need Yes, that is how the No. 3 team them. Hopefully this time in the country plays — but it’s around we will give them some not what McGraw means. 
to cheer about a little bit earli-When Notre Dame is playing er in the game than the second its game, senior captain Melissa half.” 
GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Lechlitner is directing the Falling behind early and hav-

From left to right, junior forward Becca Bruszewski, senior guard Ashley Barlow and ffth-year senior see FRIARS/page 18 guard Lindsay Schrader play defense during Notre Dame’s 74-66 victory over West Virginia Sunday. see POISE/page 18 

MEN’S SWIMMING 

Winter break trip to Puerto Rico prepares team for Big East 
beach nearby, and you can go to The trip, which is a favorite were able to demonstrate their meets to Northwestern, Michigan 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
the beach between practices, it’s among the Irish swimmers, gives abilities in competition as well. A State and Louisville, but Welsh 
Sports Writer 
just great. It really facilitates all the team an opportunity to focus highlight of the trip was the Copa said he believes it is obvious the the hard work.” on training with school pressures Coqui swim meet, which featured training trip did his squad lots of 

Escaping the frozen South Bend The Irish make an annual trip on the back burner. the Army swim team as well as good. winter for weeks of tropical over spring break to jumpstart “Our goals are twofold — train-Michigan’s women’s squad. “We’re faster now than before weather would be good for any-their training before Big East and ing and competition,” Welsh said. “The end of the meet was the we left, and we’re also faster one’s mental state, but for the NCAA competition, and this year, “We go down there to train like Pineapple Relays, which they than we were last year,” Welsh Irish, their winter break trip to Puerto Rico was the destination. crazy. It’s really our last chance were promoting throughout the said. “Yes, it definitely helped us.” Puerto Rico was essential. “We don’t go to Puerto Rico to train well with no classes to day,” Welsh said. “Our guys won Notre Dame will host the 
“For one thing, we train out-every year, I think this is our sec-worry about. We also focus on the relays and everybody got a Shamrock Invitational Friday and side. When you train outside, in ond time,” Welsh said. “But with competing in between the train-pineapple. It was great.” Saturday. fresh air, it’s a bonus. You’ve got the dining halls and dorms closed ing to see where we’re at.” After returning to campus, and to like that,” Irish coach Tim we always go somewhere While training was certainly decidedly colder temperatures, Contact Chris Allen at Welsh said. “Plus, when there’s a between the two semesters.” the focus of the trip, the Irish the Irish have dropped dual callen10@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Thankfully, NSD has almost arrived 
National Signing Day is only a week away, and while that doesn’t leave much time for Irish coach Brian Kelly and his staff to close in on many more high school seniors, I can’t help but be relieved this recruiting cycle is almost over. 
I can’t remember a year when recruiting dragged on like it has this year. Perhaps it’s because I’ve fol­lowed this recruiting season more closely than any in the past, but I feel like we’ve been talking about this class forever. 

The Class-of-2010 talk began way back on National Signing Day 2009, when U.S. Army All-American defensive end Chris Martin verbally committed to the Irish, a year before most players his age declare their college choice. Ten months later, he withdrew his Notre Dame pledge after the firing of former Irish coach Charlie Weis, though, in truth, Martin seemed to have been wavering long before that. 
Of course, verbal commit­ments and subsequent de-com­mitments are a part of every recruiting cycle, and that is especially true with the type of coaching turnover that occurred at Notre Dame this 
see RECRUITS/page 18 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Depth will be key against ‘Nova 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
Irish coach Mike Brey asked for players to step up and contribute before Saturday’s victory over DePaul, and junior forward Tyrone Nash and senior guard Ben Hansbrough came through with double-doubles. 
They’ll need to do the same for Notre Dame (15-5, 4-3 Big East) to have a shot at No. 3 Villanova at the Wachovia Center in Philadelphia Wednesday night. 
“They’re a great team, probably one of the top teams in the country,” sen­ior forward Luke Harangody said after Notre Dame’s 87­77 home victory over DePaul Saturday. “I couldn’t 
see CATS/page 16 






