the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


CIO leaves, interim director installed 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Gordon Wishon has vacated his post as Chief Information Officer (CIO) at the University, and an interim CIO has taken his place in leading the Office of 
I n f o r m a t i o n  
T e c h n o l o g y  
(OIT).  
Wishon’s last  
o f f i c i a l  d a y  
w a s  J a n .  3 1 ,  
however, mul­ 
t i p l e  s o u r c e s  
t o l d  T h e  
Observer that  
Wishon left the Wishon  
University  sev­ 
eral weeks ago, and an interim  
C I O  w a s  i n s t a l l e d  p r i o r  t o  
Wi s h o n ’s l a s t o f f i c i a l d a y  a t  

Notre Dame. 
University Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said last week that Wishon 
see WISHON/page 6 


Film screening encourages dialogue 
‘The Price of Pleasure’ explores pornography; students and faculty discuss implications 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
Students and faculty shared their reactions to “The Price of Pleasure,” a film that negatively portrays pornography by emphasiz­ing how it affects those involved, following its screening Tuesday evening. 
The showing was part of a presentation called “The Price of Pleasure: Dissecting the Pornography Debate,” which was co-sponsored by the Gender Relations Center (GRC), Gender Studies Program, Feminist Voice, Identity Project of Notre Dame, Men Against Violence and Theology Department. 
Patrick Tighe, a senior who works in the GRC, told the large crowd that filled most of the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library that the GRC intend­ed to use the film “as a launching pad for dialogue.” 
He acknowledged the explicit material in the film, and said staff would be available following the pres­entation to offer counseling for those disturbed by the film and its images. 

Heather Rakoczy Russell, director of the GRC, said the goal of the presentation “was to encourage a thoughtful dialogue about what is pornography, how it effects us in mainstream culture, and how it effects our values coming from our Catholic identity.” 
To foster this dialogue, the showing of the film was fol­lowed by discussions led by John Cavadini, chair of the Theology department, and Pamela Wojcik, director of the Gender Studies Program. 
Both Wojcik and Cavadini said they were displeased with the film, “The Price of Pleasure.” 
Cavadini said the film showed images of pornogra­phy that served to “fuel the film” rather than provide a comprehensive examination of the issue of pornography, and Wojcik nodded in agree­ment. 
Wojcik talked about exam­ining the values depicted throughout current films of all genres, which she said the film failed to do, rather then simply looking at pornography as an isolated genre. 
“I’m not saying I’m not concerned about pornogra­phy. I’m just saying that I’m equally concerned about the average ‘bromance’ movie,” Wojcik said. “I’m not saying that I would censor a ‘bro­mance’ movie, but with those movies, we just laugh it off.” 
Cavadini specifically addressed the men in the audience. 
“Your soul becomes as 
see PRICE/page 6 



University creates new int’l development minor 

By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
In response to students ’ increasing interest and involvement in issues sur­rounding international devel­
opment, the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity announced the introduction of a minor in International Development 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
Studies (IDS). 
“We need to look at more than just the technology solu­tions to development, but also the way in which we have to change some of the struc ­tures that prevent develop­ment from happening,” Tony Pohlen, assistant director for the Ford Program, said. “Notre Dame has a unique opportunity being a religious, 
see MINOR/page 6 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Members discuss du Lac 
COR considers revisions about sexual assault, off-campus citations 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) contin­ued discussing the upcoming revisions of du Lac as well as issues student government wants to bring to the atten­tion of the University’s Board of Trustees. 
Tuesday’s meeting opened with student body president Grant Schmidt discussing questions that members of COR had brought forward after meeting and speaking with their individual councils last week. Questions were brought forth relating to the handling of sexual assault, off-campus violations, disci­plinary actions and the actual formatting of du Lac. 
“Sexual assault will be the most important issue to be revised in du Lac,” Schmidt said. “The terminology will be a huge part of the revisions especially when dealing with 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer Student body president Grant Schmidt leads the discussion about revisions to du Lac during Tuesday’s COR meeting. 
who is a ‘witness’ and who is a ‘victim.’” 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said the process surrounding the determination of sexual assault would also be raised as a concern when student government submits its ques­tions to the committee that is revising du Lac. 
“Right now there’s discus­sion about creating a whole new procedure for dealing with victims and people guilty 
of committing sexual assault,” she said. “It is also going to be made clear what resources are available for victims.” 
COR also discussed the issues that arise when a 
see COR/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Writing Center selects director page 3  ‘When In Rome’ review page 13  National Signing Day preview page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 3, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Look at the small things 
As an aspiring journalist, I am slowly coming to terms with the reality that I will never “make it big.” Unlike the 2 percent of business majors and 1 per­cent of engineers, I will not end up making a ton of money. I’ll be lucky if I make any money at all. 
But the process of accepting this has been slow, and at times I still find myself planning for that day when I have it all. After watching the Dave Matthews Band perform at the Grammys with essentially a full orchestra supporting them, I caught myself thinking about having the money to stand front-row for such a performance. I then pondered, what other dreams of mine will I eventually give up on in order to pursue this jour­nalism thing? 
I don’t see me ever owning an Aston Martin. Ever since I beat the video game Need for Speed driving an Aston Martin (As-tone Mar-teen is my pre­ferred pronunciation), I’ve dreamt of owning one. Oh well, I guess my 1971 VW Beetle will have to do. 
Nor should I really expect to visit Africa for two full weeks again. I man­aged to slip into a trip to Senegal and South Africa the day after my high school graduation, and can only imag­ine how enjoyable a return would be. I probably shouldn’t complain having been once though. 
Is there any chance I can still get Snoop Dogg to MC a party I throw? No, I’m not important enough for him? Well, if I have to settle for Cordozar Calvin Broadus, I think I’ll survive, somehow. 
I don’t see how I’ll own a sports franchise either, what without having half a billion dollars to spare or any­thing. Maybe writing about one will be enough, maybe. 
And unless I want to gamble with my mortgage, I don’t see how I can expect to play at the high-stakes Blackjack tables in Vegas any longer. I really thought my card counting could be useful there, instead of just ruining my roommate in Circle of Death on the weekends. Well, at least that is some­thing. 
What about the intern I want to finance whose sole job will be to tran­scribe my interviews? Against every desire in my body, I’m giving up on that too. Transcribing will build char­acter in me, right? More likely that I will just continue to keep my inter­views short and sweet. 
I guess what it comes down to is sac­rifice, and if I have to sacrifice these dreams to reach the back page of Sports Illustrated (that isn’t realistic either?), then I’ll give it a shot. Besides, this life I have now isn’t horri­ble. A vintage car, a trip to Africa, knowing Snoop Dogg’s real name, win­ning Texas Hold ‘Em at Legend’s. 
To heck with the upper middle class. I’ll survive as a journalist yet, by appreciating these smaller things. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO  S YOUR FAVOR TE CHARACTER FROM “LOST?” 





“Jin-Soo Kwon.” “Sawyer.” “Charlie or “Hurley.” “Sawyer.” Desmond.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Tenn. pastry thieves steal snacks from bread bakery 
KINGSPORT, Tenn. — It was a Zinger of a theft in Tennessee. It also included cupcakes, Twinkies and other snack cakes from the Merita Bread Company. The Kingsport Times-News cites a report from the Sullivan County Sheriff’s Office in report­ing 34-year-old James M. Denoon and 18-year-old Anthony Stout were found hiding under a truck at 
the  bakery  late  Friday  
night.  
The  deputies  found  

about $300 worth of stolen snack cakes stacked 
on the ground nearby. 
Finding the accused thieves was easy: The deputies only had to follow their footprints. There was more than an inch of snow on the ground by Friday night. 
Pa. woman hits bus driver with snowball, faces charges 
JOHNSTOWN, Pa. —A western Pennsylvania woman faces a hearing on charges that she hit a tran­sit but driver in the head with a snowball because he wouldn’t let her board with an expired bus pass. Lateia Jefferson, 20, was accused of cursing at the Cambria County Transit Authority driver and hit­ting him with the snowball on Jan. 20. 
Her preliminary hearing on charges of disorderly conduct, harassment and resisting arrest was set for March 4 before a district judge in Johnstown. 
Police said the driver wasn’t injured. 
Online court records don’t list an attorney for Jefferson and The Associated Press could not immediately locate a listed telephone for her. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Thursday Friday 


IN BRIEF 
The Richard Alston Dance Company will be at the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tomorrow at 7 p.m. Tickets can be purchased online at performingarts.nd.edu or at the box office. 
AcousticCafe will be held in the LaFortune Student Center basement tomorrow from 10 
p.m. to midnight. The event is free. 
“Documenting Trauma” with filmmaker Danielle Beverly, a part of the FTT Talks lecture series, will take place Friday in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The lecture is free but ticketed. 
Welsh Family Hall’s “DanceFest 2010” will take place Friday and Saturday at Washington Hall from 7 to 9 
p.m. Tickets are $5 and avail­able at the LaFortune Student Center box office. All proceeds go to the Robinson Community Learning Center’s Shakespeare Company. 
Combined auditions for The Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival will be held Saturday from 1 to 3 p.m. at the Philbin Stage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Auditions are for the spring production of “As You Like It” and its 2010 Young Company professional summer residency program. Auditions are open for Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Saturday Sunday 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


HIGH 



CORRECTIONS 
30 HIGH 25 HIGH 36 HIGH 32 HIGH 26 HIGH 25 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 55 / 35 Boston 37 / 22 Chicago 30 / 23 Denver 49 / 28 Houston 53 / 48 Los Angeles 62 / 47 Minneapolis 25 / 16 
New York 39 / 27 Philadelphia 42 / 28 Phoenix 64 / 51 Seattle 51 / 42 St. Louis 39 / 28 Tampa 68 / 53 Washington 43 / 31 
Wednesday, February 3, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 






ND creates ACE partnership 
Special to The Observer 
The Diocese of Tucson and the University of Notre Dame have agreed to designate three Tucson parish Catholic schools as the nation’s first Notre Dame ACE Academy (NDAA) schools. 
The Most Reverend Gerald 
F. Kicanas, Bishop of the Diocese of Tucson, and Notre Dame representatives will announce the designation on Friday (Jan. 29) at the Diocese of Tucson Pastoral Center. 
The NDAA partnership marks a significant deepen­ing of the Notre Dame rela­tionship with the Diocese of Tucson begun in 2001, when the University began provid­ing teachers to Tucson Catholic schools through Notre Dame’s Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) pro­gram. 
The NDAA model is orient­ed around the three pillars of ACE: educational excellence, the experience of community, and faith formation in the Catholic tradition. 
By designating St. Ambrose, St. John the Evangelist, and Santa Cruz as NDAA schools, ACE and the diocese seek to achieve comprehensive excel­lence in these three schools by implementing a unique model of Catholic schooling. 
ACE faculty and staff will work closely with NDAA schools and diocesan leaders to boost enrollment and enhance school leadership, curriculum, instruction, pro­fessional development, finan­cial management, marketing and Catholic identity. 
The Tucson schools are the first NDAA schools in the nation, though ACE hopes to expand the model to other cities in the future. Bishop Kicanas invited ACE to con­sider Tucson as the inaugural site for the NDAA concept. The city was selected after a comprehensive feasibility study showed strong local support for the partnership and affirmed the schools’ capacity to serve area stu­dents effectively, particularly through the opportunities created by Arizona’s private school tax credit. 

The NDAA initiative is led at Notre Dame by ACE’s director of university-school partnerships, Rev. Joseph Corpora, C.S.C., a Holy Cross priest and former pastor with nearly 20 years experience in parishes and schools effec­tively serving Latinos. The director of the NDAA initia­tive at Notre Dame is Christian Dallavis, a former Catholic school teacher who now prepares teachers for Catholic schools and conducts educational research on faith -based schooling in Latino communities. The project is funded by a gener­ous grant from the Walton Family Foundation, with sup­port from the University and private benefactors as well. 
“We are just delighted about deepening our partner­ship with Bishop Kicanas and the Diocese of Tucson,” said Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., founder of ACE and director 
of the Institute for Educational Initiatives at Notre Dame. “St. John, St. Ambrose and Santa Cruz have served the families of Tucson for many years, and we are thrilled about the increased opportunities this Notre Dame family of schools will offer for years to come.” 
“This partnership has the potential to make an impor­tant difference in the lives of hundreds of families,” said Rachel Moreno, a faculty member in Notre Dame’s ACE program and advisor to the Notre Dame ACE Academy project who was born in Tucson and still resides there. “Catholic schools do so much to enliven parish and civic communities, and Notre Dame is committed to extend­ing the Catholic school advantage to as many chil­dren as possible in our com­munity.” 
For more information about the Notre Dame ACE Academies, visit http://ace.nd.edu/outreach/ndaa 


Writing Center selects Capdevielle as director 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Though the University’s Writing Center has had its doors open to students for the last 10 years, this semes­ter it welcomes Matthew Capdevielle as its new direc­tor, who replaces Chris Mannelly, the acting associ­ate director last semester. 
Capdevielle recently com­pleted gradu­ate school at 
the University “Our main purpose is students. of Wisconsin-“In a couple 
one-on-one stuff.” 
Madison, of weeks we’re where he doing a gradu­received a Matthew Capdevielle ate student Ph.D. in Writing Center director workshop on 
English. 
In addition to currently teaching a writ­ing program for the University, Capdevielle is helping oversee the Writing Center as an academic tool for all students. 
“My job is to handle day to day stuff here and to work on programming,” he said. 
Capdevielle said the most important function of the Writing Center is the face-to­face help it provides for stu­dents. 
Appointments at the Writing Center can be made in 45-minute increments. 
turning in 
coursework to publications,” he said. 
While students may be the main patrons of the Writing Center, they also are an inte­gral part of its day-to-day operations. 
“We have 30 undergradu­ate and four graduate tutors,” Capdevielle said. “Tutors are nominated by professors to apply.” 
Capdevielle said the appli­cation process occurs in the spring, and the following fall those students that are hired engage in a tutor-training 
Any kind of “Our main focus is writing proj­
having people develop
ect at any level is wel-their focus and ideas 
come. in their writing.” Capdevielle 
said he hopes 
Matthew Capdevielle 
students understand Writing Center director 
that the true purpose of the Writing Center is not to help students with grammar and proofreading, but rather to help with fleshing out ideas and constructing strong arguments. 
“Our main focus is having people develop their focus and ideas in their writing,” he said. 
While the central focus of the Writing Center lies in these face-to-face appoint­ments, Capdevielle also said the Center’s programming is also beneficial to students’ academic needs. 
“Our main purpose is the one-on-one stuff,” he said. “However, we do do pro ­grams here and there.” 
Capdevielle said the Writing Center is currently hosting a workshop on grant application writing with CUSE, and there is upcoming programming for graduate 
course titled “Writing Center Theory and Practice.” 
These tutors helped 1,500 stu ­dents with their papers last semester, and while there were 
some slow weeks, other times the Writing Center was swamped, Capdevielle said. 
“The assignment cycle means that some weeks we have 20 students come in and other weeks we have 200 to 300,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS N EWS Wednesday, February 3, 2010 



Travel agency serves students 
Anthony Travel assists with bus to Chicago, helps plan spring break 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Sustainability involves bringing into harmony the environment, economy and society, Mike Keen, director of the Center for a Sustainable Future at Indiana University-South Bend, said. 
Keen, along with Colleen Kelley, president of GreeND at Notre Dame and Sister Mary Turgi, chair of the Congregation Justice Committee, discussed the importance of living sustainably Tuesday. 
Keen compared life on earth to that of life in a terrarium. In a ter­rarium, plants are able to grow and sustain life for themselves by simply in taking sunlight. However, Keen said, if one would put a candle inside of the terrarium, the entire equilibri­um would be thrown off and the plants would no longer survive. 
Keen said the candle, which ruined the environment in the ter­rarium, is the equivalence of carbon emissions on earth. 
“Basically, what it really gets down to, we’re living on a terrarium, we’ve got this wonderful balance and if things get out of balance, we’re going to be in trouble,” Keen said. 
Keen explained some basic ways to work towards a sustainable socie­ty, such as reducing dependence on fossil fuels, reducing dependence on man-made compounds and reduc­ing contributions to the depletion and destruction of nature. He urged students to take steps to improve their own sustainability. 
“I’m really pretty optimistic. I think that what you’ve got to do is take that first step no matter how small it is,” he said. 
Like Keen, Kelley also asked stu­dents to become active in the sus­tainable movement and discussed ways in which the University can go green. 
Kelley said the University made changes toward sustainability by creating the recycling program on football weekends. In 2008, about 81 tons of recyclables were collected during football weekends, she said. 
Kelley also said the University made progress by hosting education­al events to bring about awareness about sustainability. 
“Sustainability excites me in a way that other issues don’t. It’s integra­tion of things that interest me and that I care about but more impor­tantly I feel its something where we can all find our niche,” she said. 
Turgi said the Sisters of the Holy Cross also made progress in sus­tainability. 
“This has been a very important issue for us for a long time both here and around the world,” Turgi said. 
The congregation has recently increased efforts to go green, she said. By converting the power plant from coal to natural gas, the Sisters have been able to decrease emis­sions. 
Other efforts include composting, moving away from the use of dispos­able plastic ware and creating a nat­ural prairie, which allows wildlife to live with limited human involvement. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
Each day, thousands of students on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s campuses visit their respective stu­dent centers. However, few 
President of Travel Services, said. “Students are definitely an important part of our business.” 
Anthony Travel caters to student needs and also aids in staff and faculty travel, athletic team travel, club travel and study abroad programs. 
Kowalski said Anthony Travel’s most popular serv­ice is assisting students with getting tickets for the Coach USA bus, which runs between Notre Dame’s cam­pus and Chicago. Anthony Travel offers tickets for a lower price than if bought directly through the compa­ny, she said. 
waived service fees, a fre­quent flyer account and hotel booking for friends or family traveling to Notre Dame for home football games. 
The agency also organizes group travel for spring break, Kaleen Carr, Leisure Manager, said. 
“We have a lot of people traveling to Mexico this year. Specifically Puerto Vallarta and Rivera Maya,” Carr said. 
The agency will arrange group flights, hotels, trans­fers, all-inclusive resorts or cruises for spring break trips. If students use one of Anthony Travel’s packages, their trip will be arranged free of any service charges. 
The Agency is located in the LaFortune Student Center on Notre Dame’s campus and in the Student Center on Saint Mary’s cam­pus. Both offices are opened Monday through Friday, 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Students can visit http://www.anthonytravel.co m/university_notreDame, call 574-631-7080 or stop by anytime during regular business hours. 
“If students want help with any of their travel plans, we’re here to help,” Kowalski said. 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 




Saint Mary’s lecture discusses sustainability 
Lauren Berry, a Saint Mary’s freshman, said the bus helps her get home to Dallas, Texas on breaks because most flights going to Dallas leave from one of the Chicago airports. 
“It’s really convenient that there is a bus to get me to 
students ven ­ture into Anthony Travel, “It’s really convenient 
a travel agency 
that there is a bus to
located on both 
campuses. get me to Chicago. If “We are the not, it would be really 
official travel 
diffcult for me to get
partner of 
Notre Dame and home during breaks.” Saint Mary’s college,” Mary Lauren Berry Kowalski, Vice 
freshman 
Chicago, ” Berry said. “If not, it would be really diffi­cult for me to get home during breaks.” 
Be sides assisting with bus travel, Anthony Travel also ar ranges 
flights and hotels for stu­dents. They can also help students’ parents get to campus for events such as orientation, home football games, graduation and jun­ior parents weekend. 
Service charges are usual­ly around $30 but can differ depending on request. No appointments are needed to talk to an agent, Kowalski said. 
Kowalski said one service that many students do not know about is the Student Travel Club. For one flat rate, students will receive a passport picture, bag tags, 


World & Nation 
Wednesday, February 3, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israeli Minister calls for peace 
JERUSALEM — Israel’s defense minister warned Tuesday that if Israel does not achieve a peace deal with the Palestinians, it will be either a binational state or an undemocratic apartheid state. 
Defense Minister Ehud Barak’s comments came in an address to a security conference north of Tel Aviv. 
Israeli leaders rarely use the term “apartheid” in connection to the Palestinians. The term, however, has been used by Israel’s harshest critics to accuse it of using apartheid tactics against the Palestinians. 
“The simple truth is, if there is one state” including Israel, the West Bank and Gaza, “it will have to be either binational or undemoc­ratic. ... if this bloc of millions of Palestinians cannot vote, that will be an apartheid state.” 

Pope’s comments spark outrage 
LONDON — Pope Benedict XVI’s condem­nation this week of British equality legisla­tion designed to protect gays and women in the workplace has deepened the battle lines between the Vatican and secularists, who demand that taxpayers not foot the security bill for his newly announced September visit. 
The Roman Catholic Church’s steadfast opposition to allowing gays to become priests or having rights such as adoption puts it at odds with changing attitudes in Britain, where acceptance of homosexuali­ty has increased dramatically in recent decades. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Judge hears gene patent case 
NEW YORK — Lawyers challenging the rights of a company to hold patents on two human genes linked to breast and ovarian cancer have told a New York judge that the patents are stalling important research. 
Lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union and the Public Patent Foundation asked federal Judge Robert Sweet in Manhattan Tuesday to rule the patents invalid. He did not immediately rule. 
But attorney Brian Poissant said Myriad Genetics and the University of Utah Research Foundation have a right to the patents. He said to disallow the patents would wreck the foundation of the entire biotechnology indus­try and said court precedent is on their side. 
U.S. government attorneys have defended the patents, saying the groups do not have the right to even challenge them. 

Toxic metal found in jewelry 
LOS ANGELES — Concern about the heavy metal cadmium in jewelry grew Tuesday as a California environmental group said new testing of adult necklaces and bracelets bought at three leading retail­ers, including Saks Fifth Avenue and Aeropostale, detected high levels of the toxic material — as much as 75 percent by weight. 
One of the pieces was made in China and another was made in India. Labeling on a black-colored link necklace, purchased at Saks for $69.99, did not indicate where it was made. 
Based on the results of its testing, the Center for Environmental Health said it would seek a ban on cadmium in all jewelry. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Ind. bans texting while driving 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana House has passed a bill that would ban texting or sending e-mails while driving. 
The House voted 95-3 for the bill Tuesday and sent it to the Senate for consideration. Supporters say it would save lives. 
It would make transmitting text messages or e-mails while driving a Class C infraction with a possible fine of $500. 
Lawmakers enacted a law last year that pro­hibits drivers younger than 18 from using cell phones or other telecommunication devices while driving. This year’s House bill does not cover drivers 18 or over talking on cell phones. 



Leaders: End ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ 
Top defense officials advocate changing policy on gays and lesbians in the military 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — It’s time  
to repeal the military’s “don’t  
ask, don’t tell” policy and  
allow gay troops to serve  
openly for the first time in his­ 
tory, the nation’s top defense  
officials declared Tuesday,  
with the chairman of the Joint  
Chiefs of Staff proclaiming  
that service members should  
not be forced to “lie about  
who they are.”  
However, both Defense  
Secretary Robert Gates and  
Joint Chiefs Chairman Adm.  
Mike Mullen asked for a year  
to study the impact before  
Congress would lift the contro­ 
versial policy.  
Reversing the Pentagon’s  
17-year-old policy toward  
gays “comes down to integri­ 
ty,” for the military as an insti­ 
tution as well as the service  
members themselves, Mullen  
told a Senate hearing.  
Unpersuaded, several  
Republican senators said they  
would oppose any congres­ 
sional effort to repeal the poli­ 
cy.  
The Pentagon announced  
an 11-month review of how  
the ban could be lifted, as  
President Barack Obama has  
said he will work to do. But  
there is no deadline for ending AP  
the policy that dates to CodePink's Medea Benjamin demonstrates on Capitol Hill Tuesday as the Senate Armed  
President Bill Clinton’s tenure Services Committee held a hearing on “don’t ask, don’t tell.”  
and that gay rights advocates  
are pressing to overturn.  many in Congress argued that  Democratic senators praised  the outcome of any study by  
In the meantime, Gates  doing so would dangerously  Mullen and Gates for what  signaling his own opposition  
announced plans to loosen  disrupt order.  they said was courageous  to the ban.  
enforcement rules for the poli- Repealing the ban would  stance, but a number of  “This is about leadership,  
cy, which says, in essence, that  take an act of Congress, some- Republicans spoke strongly  and I take that very, very seri­ 
gays may serve so long as they  thing that does not appear  against the idea of a repeal.  ously,” Mullen replied,  
keep their sexuality private.  close to happening.  Gates drew unusually point­ tightlipped.  
Obama has called for repeal  Since ‘don’t ask, don’t tell”  ed criticism from Republicans  Tuesday’s session gave  
but has done little in his first  was established, much has  on the Senate Armed Services  Obama high-level cover on a  
year in office to advance that  changed. Five states and the  Committee for saying the  divisive social issue complicat­ 
goal. If he succeeds, it would  District of Columbia have  review would examine how,  ed by the strains on an all-vol­ 
mark the biggest shake-up to  adopted laws permitting mar- not whether, to repeal the  unteer military force fighting  
military personnel policies  riage of gay couples, while  ban. Arizona Sen. John  two wars.  
since President Harry S.  nine other states have granted  McCain, the top Republican on  Gates, who says he is a  
Truman’s 1948 executive  similar rights to gay domestic  the panel, icily told Gates he  Republican, is the only mem­ 
order integrating the services.  partners.  was disappointed in his posi­ ber of former President  
Homosexuality has never  The public’s attitude toward  tion and suggested the  George W. Bush’s Cabinet  
been openly tolerated in the  gays and lesbians also has  Pentagon was usurping  whom Obama asked to stay  
American military, and the  undergone a significant shift.  Congress’ job.  on. He has gained a reputa­ 
1993 policy was intended to  A Pew poll last year indicated  “Has this policy been ideal?  tion for both candor and cau­ 
be a compromise that let gay  that 59 percent of Americans  No, it has not,” McCain said.  tion. Mullen’s words were a  
men and women serve so long  favor allowing gays and les­ “But it has been effective.”  forceful endorsement from a  
as they stayed silent about  bians to serve openly in the  Mullen looked pained when  careful man, and his very  
their sexuality. Clinton had  military, up from 52 percent in  Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., sug­ appearance, starched uniform  
wanted to repeal the ban  1994.  gested that the Joint Chiefs  and four stars on view, made  
entirely, but the military and  On Tuesday, several  chairman had preordained  a statement as well.  

HAITI 



Haitian judge questions held Americans 
The Baptists from Idaho say they were The Americans apparently enlisted a
Associated Press 
only trying to help orphans survive the clergyman who went knocking on doors PORT-AU-PRINCE — A Haitian judge earthquake. But legal experts say taking asking people if they wanted to give on Tuesday was questioning a group of children across a border without docu-away their children, the director of 
U.S. Baptist missionaries arrested trying ments or government permission can be Haiti’s social welfare agency, Jeanne to leave Haiti with a busload of children considered child trafficking. Bernard Pierre, told The Associated they gathered from the disaster zone. At the SOS Children’s Village orphan-Press. 
The investigating magistrate queried age where authorities are protecting the “One child said to me, ‘When they the five women for several hours and 33 children, regional director Patricia came knocking on our door asking for will follow up with the five men on Vargas said none who are old enough children, my mom decided to give me Wednesday, according to the Haiti’s com-and willing to talk had said they were away because we are six children and by munications minister. No lawyers were orphans: “Up until now we have not giving me away she would have only five present, and the Americans have yet to encountered any who say they are an kids to care for,’” Bernard Pierre said. be charged. orphan.” About 10 parents have come forward 
Minister Marie-Laurence Jocelyn Vargas said most of the children are saying their children were taken, but it Lassegue says the evidence will be pre-between 3 and 6 years old, and unable wasn’t clear if any are related the case sented to a Haitian district attorney to to provide phone numbers or any other involving the Americans, Bernard Pierre decide whether to file charges. details about their origins. said. 
page 6 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, February 3, 2010 

Wishon 
continued from page 1 
approached administrators at the end of 2009 to discuss his intention to leave Notre Dame. 
“I think he felt after eight and a half years [at Notre Dame] he just wanted to do something different,” Affleck-Graves said. “I think he’s moving more into a consult­ing role, and [it was] just a decision at this stage that it was time for him to move on.” 
Affleck-Graves confirmed he has since installed John Sejdinaj, University vice pres­ident for Finance, as the interim CIO. 
It was unclear what Wishon’s initial plans were after leaving Notre Dame. Calls to Wishon’s South Bend residence were not returned, and Wishon declined to com­ment when reached through former colleagues at OIT. Sources told The Observer Wishon has moved from the area. 
Wishon joined the University in 2001 as CIO, associate provost and associ­ate vice president. 
Affleck-Graves said Wishon “made a large number of con­tributions to technology pro­grams” during his tenure including overseeing the replacement of the University’s enterprise sys­tems. 
Affleck -Graves said a search for the next CIO is already underway, but declined to give a timeline for when a new officer might be selected. 
He said the priority was to find “somebody who has the vision and the experience to lead such an important department on campus.” 
In the meantime, Sejdinaj will provide leadership for 

Minor 
continued from page 1 
Catholic institution to look at development in a certain way.” 
Housed in the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the IDS minor will utilize an interdisciplinary approach, incorporating elec­tives from a variety of disci­plines, a gateway and cap­stone course and a field ­based research project for students to apply their aca­demic experiences with work and study in the developing world. 
“Through both classroom instruction and fieldwork, our graduates will understand both the human face of devel­opment and the global reali­ties,” the Ford Program said in a press release. “Our stu­dents will emerge poised to utilize and apply these teach­ings and experiences in their future careers and path ­ways.” 
Because of the partial fund­ing the Ford Program hopes to provide students for their research project, the IDS minor will have a limited intake of approximately 12 students in its first year. 
“We are looking for stu ­dents that really want to make this a big part of their undergraduate studies lead­ing to international develop­ment work through graduate studies or work in the field,” OIT, Affleck-Graves said. He called Sejdinaj “a very expe­rienced administrator” who has “worked with all of our administrative systems,” making him the best choice for the interim CIO. 
Affleck -Graves said the University would announce the new CIO as soon one is hired. 
Prior to coming to Notre Dame, Wishon was CIO the Georgia Institute of Technology from 1994 to 2001. 
He had previously served 20 years in the U.S. Air Force, ending his military career as CIO at the Air Force Institute of Technology. 
During his nine-year tenure at Notre Dame, Wishon led numerous developments and changes at OIT, including the installation of the University’s current enterprise system, Renovare, and the conversion of most of the University’s business operations systems to Banner. 
During his tenure, OIT experienced physical renova­tions in the ITC building. OIT also implemented the online course management system known as Concourse, installed basic cable in all University residence halls, installed wireless Internet access in the majority of teaching and living spaces on campus, converted legacy Webmail e-mail systems to Gmail and Microsoft Exchange, and led the imple­mentation of the University’s emergency response system. 
In 2004 Wishon was select­ed as one of Computerworld Magazine’s Premier 100 IT Leaders. During his tenure, Notre Dame was awarded CIO Magazine’s CIO100 award for innovation in information technology in 2005 and again in 2008. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
Pohlen explained. 
Rising sophomores and jun­iors are encouraged to apply by March 15 for entrance into the minor. 
“The minor is not only open to incoming sophomores, but that’s where were primarily going to look,” Pohlen said. “We really want it to be three years of someone’s career here.” 
While the list of cross-listed electives has not been final­ized yet, the IDS minor is hoping to collaborate and work across majors and col­leges to offer a variety of courses to broaden students’ vocabulary and knowledge about development. 
“We want to work toward developing courses across colleges, to get a course in science or engineering on water issues or global health that provides students with the vocabulary and under­standing from a scientific perspective,” Pohlen said. 
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Rahul Oka will teach the gateway course for IDS in the fall of 2010 and will assist in further develop­ment of the minor. In addi­tion, the Ford Program is looking to hire new profes­sors with expertise in inter­national development. 
An informational session on the minor will be held on Feb. 16 at 6:30 p.m. in Hesburgh Center C-103. 

Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame student receives a citation off campus from law enforcement and subse­quently receives a citation from the University. 
“There’s been a lot of debate going on about viola­tions off campus and getting hit twice; you get cited by the state and Notre Dame,” Schmidt said. 
Schmidt said he discussed this issue with a rector and said that he was told it was about community relations. 
“If Notre Dame was hands-off about students getting in trouble, all of our relations with the community are thrown off,” he said. 
Some members of COR brought up the confusion over what rules in du Lac Notre Dame students are responsi­ble for following off-campus, including when they are in their home states. 
“There’s an issue with over being cited for something off campus because we don’t know what specific rules we are accountable for follow-


Price 
continued from page 1 
coarse as the pornography creator’s cynicism. That is the price of pleasure from pornography,” he said. 
He said the film failed to provide a portrayal of men who had given up addictions to pornography and were seeking counseling and heal­ing. 
Russell said many times students “don’t have an out­ing,” Weber said. “For exam­ple, we don’t have to follow parietals when we are off campus or at home.” 
Members of COR also 
brought up disciplinary actions. The 
“If Notre Dame was
rules now state that hands off about students 
dorm offenses getting in trouble, all of 
are subject to 
our relations with the
the rector of the dorm, but community would be 
some mem-thrown off.” bers said many stu-
Grant Schmidt
dents felt 
they were student body president getting fined for reasons 
attend those meetings they know of the various issues that the student body is con­cerned with.” 
One of these issues was revising the non-dis­crimination clause to include sexu­al orienta­
“We don’t ask the Board to respond,” Schmidt said. “The Board members go to a lot of meetings that weekend and we hope that when they 
such as leaving too many pairs of shoes in the hallway. 
Members suggested the cre­ation of an office or commit­tee that students could appeal to about rectors’ decisions. 
COR also talked about which issues student govern­ment representatives will present to the University’s Board of Trustees Thursday evening. Schmidt and Weber outlined seven issues they would like the Board to know that the student body is con­cerned about. 
let to express their feelings 
or concerns about these challenging issues.” 
She said Notre Dame’s Men of Strength program provides such an outlet on Notre Dame’s campus. 
Tom Robertson, a facilita­tor of the Men of Strength program said the program’s goal is to “explore a holistic view of human sexuality and hold that in conversation with faith from an explicitly Catholic point of view.” 
Russell said the film will have been a success if it tion. A resolution passed in the student Senate last week that called for the creation of a task force to deal with the homophobic nature of cam­pus and the Senate called for the addition of sexual orien­tation to the non-discrimina­tion clause. 
“It looks very possible that the clause will be revised to include sexual orientation,” Schmidt said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
sparked a conversation about the possibility of a kind of sexuality that has a hopeful message. 
“How could our Catholic identity give us hope? Is there another model of sexu­ality that has a hopeful mes­sage? If we did anything to depict that message and start a conversation about those things, then yes, we achieved our goal for tonight,” Russell said. 

Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 



Oil, trucking businesses sue Calif. 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, California — The petroleum and trucking industries Tuesday sued to block California’s first-in-the­nation mandate for cleaner, low-carbon fuels. 
The lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court in Fresno by the National Petrochemical & Refiners Association and the American Trucking Associations. It is the third suit filed in the past two months challenging the regu­lations, adopted by the California Air Resources Board in April. 
The groups say regulators violated the federal Commerce Clause by enacting rules that interfere with interstate com­merce, favor biofuels pro­duced in California, and do little to reduce the nation's greenhouse gases. 
Charles Drevna, president of the petroleum association, said in a statement that the low-carbon fuel standard is an “ineffective tool” for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
He said the more carbon-intensive fuel banned in California would simply be used elsewhere. 
Beginning next year, the standard requires petroleum refiners, companies that blend fuel and distributors to gradually increase the clean­liness of the fuel they sell in California. 
Air Resources Board chair­woman Mary Nichols issued a statement chastising the groups for challenging a regu­lation she said would save Californians $11 billion over the next decade. It was adopt­ed by the board two years after Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger called for it. 
“Their actions are shameful. This is a critical tool to help us break our dependence on fos­sil fuels,” Nichols said. “It will protect us from volatile oil prices and provide consumers with cleaner fuels and provide the nation with greater energy security.” 
The board has said the low-carbon mandate will reduce California’s dependence on petroleum by 20 percent and account for one-tenth of the state’s goal to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. 
The regulation would not mandate specific alternative fuels. Rather, it would assign a so-called carbon-intensity score to various fuels. All gasoline and diesel fuel sold in California must be 10 percent less carbon-intensive by 2020. 
The Rocky Mountain Farmers Union, the California Dairy Campaign, the Renewable Fuels Associations and other groups in December filed a similar lawsuit in the same court. Their complaint says California's regulation conflicts with the federal Renewable Fuel Standard and will close California's borders to corn ethanol made in other states. 

The Observer 


Business
Wednesday, February 3, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 
Cohmad Securities charges dismissed 
NEW YORK — Finding accusations “spec­ulative and flimsy,” a judge has dismissed civil securities fraud charges against a New York brokerage firm and its executives that resulted from a probe into Bernard Madoff’s epic fraud. 
The charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission were dismissed Monday against Cohmad Securities Corp., its chairman, Maurice “Sonny” Cohn, his daughter, Chief Operating Officer Marcia Cohn, and vice president and broker Robert Jaffe. 
U.S. District Judge Louis L. Stanton gave the SEC permission to refile the charges but only if it can provide facts to back them up. 
“Nowhere does the complaint allege any fact that would have put defendants on notice of Madoff’s fraud,” Stanton wrote. “Rather, the complaint supports the reason­able inference that Madoff fooled the defen­dants as he did individual investors, finan­cial institutions and regulators.” 

Dow has second large gain 
NEW YORK — Signs of strength in the housing market pushed the Dow Jones industrial average to its second straight gain of more than 100 points. 
An increase in the number of people with contracts to buy homes and the first profit at homebuilder D.R. Horton in three years raised hopes that one of the weakest parts of the economy is improving. 
The Dow rose 111 points Tuesday, boost­ing its two-day gain to 230 points and extending a recovery from a slide in January. It was the biggest back-to-back advance for the Dow in three months. 
The National Association of Realtors, a trade group, said its index of sale contracts rose 1 percent in December. It was the ninth improvement over the past 10 months as buyers scrambled to take advantage of a first-time homebuyer tax credit before it was set to expire in November. 
“It’s a slow, sustainable growth,” said Daniel Penrod, senior industry analyst for the California Credit Union League. “Most people would prefer a quick rebound but that’s not likely to happen.” 



Auto sales rise, Toyota struggles 
GMC, Hyundai and Ford increase sales while the Japanese automaker’s drops 
Associated Press  
DETROIT — The U.S. auto  
industry rebounded from last  
January’s sales collapse with  
one big exception: Toyota,  
which lost an estimated  
20,000 sales after it stopped  
selling eight models because  
of defective gas pedals.  
Last month, U.S. sales of  
cars and light trucks to con­ 
sumers rose 6 percent from  
a year earlier, thanks to  
increases in fleet sales and  
strong demand for newly  
redesigned vehicles such as  
the Hyundai Tucson SUV and  
Buick LaCrosse sedan. Big  
winners included General  
Motors Co., Ford Motor Co.,  
Nissan Motor Co. and  
Hyundai Motor Co., which all  
posted double-digit sales  
increases.  
But Toyota’s sales slipped  
16 percent, and they could  
fall further as its sales stop­ 
page drags into February. It  
was the first time since  
February 1998 that Toyota’s  
monthly U.S. sales fell below  
100,000 vehicles, according  
to Ward’s AutoInfoBank.  
Toyota’s troubles helped to  
knock the Camry off its tradi­ 
tional perch as the top-sell­ 
ing car in the U.S. Last  
month the Camry ranked AP  
fifth in car sales, passed by 2010 Toyota Corolla and Camrys are shown in a fenced lot behind a dealership in Warren,  
Honda’s Accord, Nissan’s Mich., Monday.  
Altima, Toyota’s Corolla and  
the Chevrolet Malibu. The  declines. In December, most  John McEleney, who oper- Carter emphasized that  
Camry has been the top-sell­ of them saw increases. The  ates a Toyota dealership in  dealers would repair cus­ 
ing car in the U.S. for the last  hybrid Prius, which wasn’t  Clinton, Iowa, expected  tomer vehicles first and only  
eight years.  affected in the recall, posted  January sales to be up 40  then repair new vehicles on  
Toyota announced a recall  a 13 percent gain.  percent over last year until  their lots. Dealers can  
of eight models, including  Toyota’s pain wasn’t a gain  the automaker halted them.  resume selling vehicles  
the Camry, on Jan. 21 and  for other automakers. They  Now, January sales will be  affected by the recall, but he  
halted sales of those models  saw more Toyota owners  up 10 percent at the most,  had no estimate for when  
five days later because the  browsing in their showrooms  said McEleney, who is also  that would be.  
accelerator pedals could  but few sales despite incen­ president of the National  January is typically a weak  
stick and cause a crash The  tives offered by GM, Ford  Automobile Dealers  month for U.S. auto sales,  
recall has affected a total of  and some New York-area  Association.  but automakers expected  
2.3 million vehicles in the  Honda dealers.  “It died off last week  sales to improve over last  
U.S. Besides the Camry, the  Ken Czubay, Ford Motor  because of the stop sale,” he  January, when they dipped  
other models in the recall  Co.’s vice president of sales,  said. “It comes at a tough  to a 26-year low because of  
include Corolla and Avalon  said Toyota’s actions may  time for dealers coming out  the tough economy.  
cars, the Matrix hatchback,  have hurt overall sales  of the recession.”  Sales to fleets — rental  
the Tundra pickup, the  because consumers and  Carter said Tuesday that  companies as well as corpo- 
Sequoia SUV and the RAV4  dealers were unsure of the  parts to fix the recalled vehi­ rate and government sales  
and Highlander.  value of Toyota trade-ins.  cles are on their way to  — boosted numbers last  
Bob Carter, Toyota’s group  “There was a tremendous  Toyota dealerships.  month. GM’s fleet sales  
vice president and general  amount of uncertainty. I  Customers will also start  surged 225 percent, while  
manager, said the suspended  don’t think the month  receiving notices this week,  Ford’s jumped 154 percent.  
models amount to 60 per- enjoyed its normal pickup on  staggered over time, about  Other automakers didn’t  
cent of Toyota dealers’  the last weekend,” Czubay  where and when they can  release percentages of fleet  
inventory. All eight saw sales  said.  have their vehicles repaired.  sales.  



Unemployment rises in metro areas 
Associated Press unemployment rate jump to 16.4 Automakers and auto parts compa­
percent in December from 14.8 per-nies have recalled workers in recent 
WASHINGTON — Unemployment cent the previous month. months as they seek to replenish rose in most cities and counties in That’s double the 8 percent it inventories depleted by the “Cash for December, signaling that companies reported in July, even though the Clunkers” program, which caused a remain reluctant to hire even as the nation’s economy was in worse jump in car sales in August. economy recovers. shape then. The Detroit area saw unemploy-
The unemployment rate rose in Ocean City is one of the 19 metro ment fall to 15.7 percent from 16.4 306 of 372 metro areas, the Labor areas that reported unemployment percent, while the Warren area Department said Tuesday. The rate rates of at least 15 percent. Twelve reported a drop to 14.3 percent from fell in 41 and was unchanged in 25. of those are in California and three 14.8 percent. While still high, the That’s worse than November, when are in Michigan, the department rates are down about 2 percentage the rate fell in 170 areas, rose in said. points from last fall. only 154 and was unchanged in 48. Joblessness topped 10 percent in Steve Cochrane, a regional econo-
The metro employment numbers 138 metro areas, up from 125 in mist at Moody’s Economy.com, said it aren’t seasonally adjusted and can November but below last year’s peak isn’t clear if the gains are sustain-be volatile. Many of the increases of 144 areas in June. able once the auto companies have were due to seasonal factors. Improvement in the auto industry, rebuilt their inventories. 
For example, Ocean City, N.J., meanwhile, saw unemployment “There are no guarantees the which bills itself as “America’s rates drop in the metro areas unemployment rates won’t go up Greatest Family Resort,” saw its around Detroit and Warren, Mich. again,” he said. 
page 8 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, February 3, 2010 

U.S. officials expect attack 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Al-Qaida can be expected to attempt an attack on the United States in the next three to six months, senior U.S. intelligence officials told Congress Tuesday. 
The terrorist organization is deploying operatives to the United States to carry out new attacks from inside the country, including “clean” recruits with a negligible trail of terrorist contacts, CIA Director Leon Panetta said. The chilling warning comes as Christmas Day airline attack suspect Umar Farouk Abdulmutullab is cooperating with federal inves­tigators, a federal law enforce­ment official said Tuesday. 
Al-Qaida is also inspiring homegrown extremists to trig­ger violence on their own, Panetta said. 
The annual assessment of the nation's terror threats provided no startling new terror trends, but amplified growing concerns since the Christmas Day airline attack in Detroit that militants are growing harder to detect and moving more quickly in their plots. 
“The biggest threat is not so much that we face an attack like 9/11. It is that al-Qaida is adapting its methods in ways that oftentimes make it difficult to detect,” Panetta told the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
Several senators tangled over whether suspected terrorists should be tried in civilian or military court. At the same time, a group of bipartisan law­makers introduced legislation that would force the Obama administration to backtrack on its plans to try Sept. 11 defen­dants in federal court in New York and use military tribunals instead. 
As al-Qaida presses new ter­ror plots, it is increasingly rely­ing on new recruits with mini­mal training and simple devices to carry out attacks, Panetta said as part of the terror assessment to Congress. 
Panetta also warned of the danger of extremists acting alone: “It's the lone-wolf strate­gy that I think we have to pay attention to as the main threat to this country,” he said. 
The hearing comes just over a month since a failed attempt to bring down an airliner in Detroit, allegedly by a Nigerian suspect. And the assessment comes only a few months after 
U.S. 
Army Maj. Nidal Hassan is accused of single-handedly attacking his fellow soldiers at Fort Hood, Texas, killing 13. 

National Intelligence Director Dennis Blair said with changes made since the Dec. 25 attack, 

U.S. 
intelligence would he able to identify and stop someone like the Detroit bomber before he got on the plane. But he warned a more careful and skilled would-be terrorist might not be detected. 


FBI Director Robert Mueller defended the FBI's handling of the Detroit attempted bombing attack, disputing assertions that agents short-circuited more intelligence insights from the Nigerian suspect by quickly providing him with his Miranda rights to remain silent. 
Mueller was asked by Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., whether the interrogation of Abdulmutullab continues despite the fact that the suspect had already been read his legal right to remain silent. Mueller replied: “Yes.” 
Mueller said that in “case after case,” terrorists have pro­vided actionable intelligence even after they were given their rights and charged with crimes. Mueller said they know such cooperation can result in shorter sentences or other con­sideration from the govern­ment. 
Hundreds of terror suspects have already been convicted in civilian federal courts, includ­ing convicted shoe bomber Richard Reid. 
But Sen. Lindsey Graham, R­S.C., offered a bill Tuesday that would prohibit the government from using Justice Department funds to prosecute suspects charged in the Sept. 11 attack in civilian courts. 
The move comes on the heels of the Obama administration's decision to rethink whether it would try 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammad in a New York City courtroom. 
The proposed law would cover people who legally could be prosecuted by a military commission, applying to terror suspects who are not U.S. citi­zens. By Tuesday evening, the bill had support from 18 sena­tors, mostly Republicans. 

IRAN 
Ahmadinejad proposes 


U.S. prisoner exchange 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN — Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Tuesday proposed a swap of Iranians in U.S. prisons for three American hikers being held in Tehran. 
Ahmadinejad said in interview with state TV that there were ongoing negotiations about exchanging the hikers for several Iranians jailed for years in the United States. 
“There are some talks under way to have an exchange, if it is possible,” he said. “Recently they (the U.S.) have sent messages, we answered to bring them (the Iranians), to bring these people (the hikers). We are hopeful that all prisoners will be released.” 
Ahmadinejad did not mention any specifics but in December Iran released a list of 11 Iranians it says are being held in the U.S. 
— including a nuclear scientist who disappeared in Saudi Arabia and a former Defense Ministry official who vanished in Turkey. The list also includes an Iranian arrested in Canada on charges of trying to obtain nuclear technolo­gy. 
“I had said I would help in releasing them, but the attitude of some of U.S. officials damages the job,” said Ahmadinejad. “There are a large number of Iranians in prison in the U.S. They have abducted some of our citizens in other countries.” 
Shane Bauer, Sarah Shourd and Josh Fattal were hiking in Iraq's northern Kurdistan region in July when they accidentally crossed the border into Iran, their families have said. 
Samantha Topping, a New York City-based spokeswoman for the three families, said they had no comment on Ahmadinejad's remarks. 
The White House, through a spokesman, called the reports “fragmentary.” 
“If President Ahmadinejad's comments suggest that they are prepared to resolve these cases, we would welcome that step,” National Security Council spokesman Mike Hammer said. “But we have not entered into any discussion with Iran about an exchange. As we have indicated publicly, if Iran has questions about its citizens in U.S. custody, we are prepared to answer them.” 
Iran's foreign minister said in late December that the three would be tried in court, but he did not say when a trial would begin or what the three would be charged with other than to say they had “suspicious aims.” Earlier, the country's chief prose­cutor said they were accused of spying. 
Their families have said that's ludicrous and last month hired an Iranian attorney to press the case. 

Wednesday, February 3, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 9 


Study: Child abuse down 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A massive new federal study documents an unprecedented and dramat­ic decrease in incidents of seri­ous child abuse, especially sex­ual abuse. Experts hailed the findings as proof that crack­downs and public awareness campaigns had made headway. 
An estimated 553,000 chil­dren suffered physical, sexual or emotional abuse in 2005-06, down 26 percent from the esti­mated 743,200 abuse victims in 1993, the study found. 
“It’s the first time since we started collecting data about these things that we’ve seen substantial declines over a long period, and that’s tremendous­ly encouraging,” said professor David Finkelhor of the University of New Hampshire, a leading researcher in the field of child abuse. 
“It does suggest that the mobilization around this issue is helping and it’s a problem that is amenable to solutions,” he said. 
The findings were contained in the fourth installment of the National Incidence Study of Child Abuse and Neglect, a congressionally mandated study that has been conducted periodically by the Department of Health and Human Services. The previous version was issued in 1996, based on 1993 data. 
The new study is based on information from more than 10,700 “sentinels” — such as child welfare workers, police officers, teachers, health care professionals and day care workers — in 122 counties across the country. The detailed data collected from them was then used to make national estimates. 
The number of sexually abused children decreased from 217,700 in 1993 to 135,300 in 2005-2006 — a 38 percent drop, the study shows. The number of children who experienced physical abuse fell by 15 percent and the number of emotionally abused children dropped by 27 percent. 
The 455-page study shied away from trying to explain the trends, but other experts offered their theories. 
“There’s much more public awareness and public intoler­ance around child abuse now,” said Linda Spears, the Child Welfare League of America’s vice president for public policy. “It was a hidden concern before — people were afraid to talk about it if it was in their family.” 
She also noted the prolifera­tion of programs designed to help abusers and potential abusers overcome their prob­lems. 
Finkelhor, whose own previ­ous research detected a drop in abuse rates, said the study reveals “real, substantial declines” that cannot be dis­missed on any technical grounds, such as changing def­initions of abuse. 
He suggested that the decline was a product of several coin­ciding trends, including a “troop surge” in the 1990s when more people were deployed in child protection services and the criminal jus­tice system intensified its anti-abuse efforts with more arrests and prison sentences. 
Finkelhor also suggested that the greatly expanded use of medications may have enabled many potential child abusers to treat the conditions that other­wise might have led them to molest or mistreat a child. 
“There’s also been a general change in perceptions and norms about what one can get away with, so much more pub­licity about these things,” he said. 
One curious aspect of the study was the manner of its release. Although HHS had launched the study in 2004 and invested several million dol­lars, it was posted a few days ago on the Internet with no fanfare — neither a press release nor a news conference. Finkelhor, noting that experts in the field had been impatient­ly awaiting the study, described this low-profile approach as “shocking.” 
The findings might be discon­certing to some in the child-welfare field who base their funding pitches on the specter of ever-rising abuse rates, said Richard Wexler, executive director of the National Coalition for Child Protection Reform. 
“The best use of scarce child welfare dollars is on preven­tion and family preservation — not on hiring more people to investigate less actual abuse,” said Wexler. 
The study found some dra­matic differences in child abuse rates based on socio­economic factors. Poor chil­dren were three times more likely than other kids to experi­ence abuse, and rates of abuse in African-American families were significantly higher than for whites and Hispanics. 
Family structure also was a factor — for example, children whose single parent had a live-in partner faced an abuse rate 10 times that of a child living with two parents. 

HAITI 


Flow of aid, violence slow recovery process 

Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — A generous world has flooded Haiti with donations, but anger and desperation are mounting as the aid stacks up inside this broken country. 
Bottlenecks at key transporta­tion points and scattered vio­lence, including an armed group’s attack on a food convoy, have slowed the distribution of food and medicine from the port, airport and a warehouse in the Cite-Soleil slum. U.S. air traffic controllers have lined up 2,550 incoming flights through March 1, but some 25 flights a day aren’t taking their slots. Communication breakdowns between Haitians and their for­eign counterparts are also endemic. 
“Aid is bottlenecking at the Port-au-Prince airport. It’s not getting into the field,” said Mike O’Keefe, who runs Bayan Air Service in Fort Lauderdale. 
Foreign aid workers and Haitians are fed up with waiting for help. One Haitian father paid a group of men more than $200 on Tuesday to retrieve his daugh­ter’s body from his collapsed house, rather than wait for dem­olition crews. 
“No one is in charge,” said Dr. Rob Maddox of Start, Louisiana, tending to dozens of patients in the capital’s sprawling general hospital. “There’s no topdown leadership. The Swiss don’t want to cooperate with us. And since the Haitian government took con­trol of our supplies, we have to wait for things even though they’re stacked up in the ware­house. The situation is just mad­ness.” 
Donors say the key logistical challenges are dealing with a backlog of supply flights at the airport, repairing and increasing the capacity of the city’s piers and dealing with clogged overland routes from outlying airports and Dominican Republic. Most roads are just two lanes with many pot holes. 
Some are also worried that iso­lated routes are vulnerable to ambush. Haiti is plagued with crime, violence and gangs. 
Twenty armed men blocked a road and tried to hijack a convoy of food for earthquake victims Saturday, but were driven off by police gunfire, U.N. spokesman Vicenzo Pugliese said Tuesday. 
The attack on the convoy as it carried supplies from an airport in the southern town of Jeremie underscored what the United Nations calls a “potentially volatile” security situation. 
Mobs have also stolen food and looted goods from their neigh­bors in the camps, prompting many to band together or stay awake at night to prevent raids. 
Small groups of state employ­ees and lawyers held protests across the city Tuesday, denounc­ing President Rene Preval’s lead­ership. Prime Minister Max Bellerive defended the govern­ment’s performance before a quorum of 20 Haitian senators. 
“Even the most advanced coun­tries could not respond to this crisis,” he said. 
Bellerive’s speech drew an angry response from senators. 
“The government has not been able to even prove symbolically that it exists,” said Sen. Endrisse Riche, noting that he heard about Tuesday’s meeting from a friend and hadn’t been contacted by anyone in government since the quake. 
The Jan. 12 earthquake killed at least 150,000 and demolished virtually every government build­ing in the capital. Some 1 million people are homeless, many hud­dling in crude tents made of sticks and bed sheets. 
The Haitian government recently asked private aid organi­zations to send e-mails detailing what they’re doing and where. The goal is to coordinate food being distributed by non-govern­mental organizations, though not 
U.N efforts. Officials complain some areas are receiving multi­ple rations while others have nothing. 
“It is true we are in need,” said Sen. Jean Joel Joseph. “But don’t treat us like dogs ... as if we are animals.” 
Air Force spokeswoman Capt. Candace Park about 120 to 140 flights a day are landing at Port­au-Prince airport, which pre­earthquake was handling about 25 planes a day. 
American Red Cross officials in Washington say there is still a list of 1,000 flights waiting to land at Haiti’s airport. And taking sup­plies overland from the Dominican Republic to the capital now takes 18 hours, where it used to take only six, said David Meltzer, the charity’s senior vice president for international servic­es. 
In an attempt to avoid long lines at the Port, Meltzer said his agency, which has received some $203 million in donations for earthquake relief, has created a “boat bridge” to unload relief supplies from a Colombian Red Cross ship off shore. 
Another way to avoid further aid backup on the tarmac is to buy it in Haiti, said Edward Rees, whose nonprofit Peace Dividend Trust in Haiti is pressing donors to purchase local goods and hire local workers whenever possible. 

The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, February 3, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Matt Gamber Amanda Gray Molly Sammon John Cameron Matt Robison Graphics Scene Sofia Iturbe Maija Gustin Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 


A reckless train of thought 
I was standing in the line at the Café Commons (the café in the business school) the other afternoon, jockeying for position between the checkout line, the coffee line and the sandwich line. After giving up on finding the right line, and embarrassingly bumping into a bunch of kids with my back­pack, I surrendered and ran away. I could only think of one thing: how can a top business school run such a hectic, 

Jason Coleman
poorly designed coffee and sand­
wich joint? Man at Large Waddick’s, that bastion of liberal art impracticality, runs relatively more efficiently and still offers delicious breakfast sandwiches. 
This led me to consider what I had learned in Mendoza in all of my required classes from business ethics to strategic management and corporate finance. As an accounting major, much to my profes­sors’ delight, I could definitely set up a decent little cost accounting system to ensure that overheads were properly con­sidered. I could handle the bookkeeping aspects. However, when it comes to the nuts and bolts of setting the business up, designing floor plans or sandwich bars for efficiency, all I have to fall back on is 1.5 credits of “process analysis,” a half semes­ter course that barely touches on ways to consider managing actual management of a business, from the floor, not from behind 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
a computer. Could I even run the café commons? 
I started to think about how many of my fellow students I knew that were looking to graduate on to become corporate man­agers in manufacturing companies (such as Coca-Cola), and came up with less than one off the top of my head. I’m talking about the people that get on the floor and help build products that people want. Most everybody I know is going into some serv­ice oriented job such as consulting, accounting or banking. 
Maybe, I thought, the issue here isn’t Mendoza, or even Notre Dame, but some sort of America problem. That is, all of the students that go to school to learn business skills don’t actually want to sell anything to anybody, beyond their own knowledge as a consultant or banker. This could be an issue, as these knowledge sellers must have a customer who sells something real to consult, finance, etc. Private equity couldn’t oust CEOs and managers if there are no CEOs left. 
What then is America’s manufacturing advantage? Where would aspiring indus­trial giants go? We fell behind the Japanese in automobiles years ago. The Chinese are ripping us up in selling clean energy technology. With Inbev’s purchase of Anheuser-Busch, the Belle’s are killing us. We lost beer! 
What if there is some sort of business person equilibrium? There should be some point where there are enough con­sultants to handle other industries’ con­sulting needs, and there are enough banks to finance all of the IPO’s necessary. Are we close? What happens if we can only continue to churn out mutual fund man­agers and hedge fund operators? Do we become the financial service providers to the world? 
It seems this stark imbalance of gradu­ates selling services over those selling products can only continue as long as we have some knowledge advantage over other countries. That is to say, we have some business knowledge edge that keeps us in demand above other countries’ grad­uates. We have a gem of an education sys­tem, and one that does in fact give us that edge. But other countries’ are on the rise! Global competition is getting stiffer and stiffer for financier positions, are we con­tinuing to become sharper and more astute? 
Oh man, I thought, this looks bad. I couldn’t really handle any more. My logic started twisting onto itself, and my knees went slightly wobbly. Maybe I extrapolated a little too much from this sandwich shop incident. But I still can’t help but feel unnerved when I see the Café Commons swamped with students standing en masse trying to get a bite to eat. I only wish I had been required to take future issues, the new course that allegedly would give me special sight into the future. Perhaps, then, my mind could be put to ease. 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman.70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
Signing day is Feb. 3. Which commit will have the best ND career? 
Louis Nix (DT) Andrew Hendrix (QB) Tai-ler Jones (WR Cameron Roberson (RB) Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A smile is the shortest distance between two people.” 
Victor BorgeDanish comedian 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 3, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
What matters more 
To start, I’d like to say that I support the beliefs of those who took part in the silent protest in an attempt to get sexual orientation added to the non-discrimination clause. I fully believe it should be added. However, in response Will Haley’s viewpoint entitled “Jenkins disappoints,” (Feb. 1) I felt that there are two crucial flaws within your argument. 
It seems as if you expected Fr. Jenkins to come out of the main building and immediately begin to “engage in conversation” (literally or figuratively). You claim that the administration is “sluggish” and “non-responsive.” I disagree with you. It is not that the administration is “non-responsive.” The real issue here is that you (and I) do not agree with the response they have provided. 
The University has clearly expressed over the years that sexual orientation will not be added to the non-discrimination clause. However, this is not because Fr. Jenkins wants to discriminate against the LGBT community. I believe one of the main reasons it has yet to be added is because of the Church’s stance on homosexuali­ty. Take a look at the Catholic perspective on the groups that are included in the clause. The church does not consider being black, being Hispanic, being a woman, or being a certain age contrary to natural law. 
However, the Church does consider homosex­ual acts contrary to natural law. When I was a freshman, this belief was described explicitly at a mandatory meeting. We can try to peacefully begin conversation as much as we’d like. However, this University will stand by the Church. Until the Church as a whole accepts the LGBT way of life and the sexual acts involved with it, a new “conversation” at this University will not re-open. You might say that you are only asking the University to not discriminate against the people themselves (rather than homosexual acts), but the Catholic administra­tion most likely views the concession of “sexual orientation” in the non-discrimination clause as a step they cannot take given the Church posi­tion. 
This brings me to my second point. This issue has surrounded the non-discrimination clause since 1997. It has been a part of the church for far longer than that. Essentially, I’m saying that this issue is not a new one. However, LGBT stu­dents and allies with knowledge of the University position (or at the very least, access to it) choose to attend this University every year. You have made the choice to be a part of a University that disagrees with you. You’ve made the choice to stick it out and fight for something you believe in, but you need to understand that the University probably won’t budge. At the end of the day, if you are a student or professor that disagrees with the University position, you need to ask yourself what matters more. Do you care more about the University, its teachers, its stu­dents, the tradition, and the mystique or do you care enough about this issue to leave all that behind and move on to a community that is more accepting? 
Mike Matheson 
junior 
Alumni Hall 
Feb. 1 


Huddle prices, explained 
In response to Dave Schmidt’s letter (“Still overpriced,” Jan. 20) concerning high Huddle Mart prices, I have to step in and defend the beloved campus mart. Schmidt complains that many of the store’s items are sold for more than double their comparable retail price. He accuses management of abusing their virtual monopoly over on-campus beverage and snack sales (might I suggest DormDrinks.com). 
While he presents compelling evidence, his argument has one fatal flaw: the “flex point” is actually a foreign currency, worth approximately 
0.50 U.S. dollar. Clif Bars priced at $2.09? Wrong! Try dividing by two. Orange Powerade, $1.99? Again, divide by two. Elsewhere on cam­pus: you want a $5.00 footlong? Sorry, we only sell an $8.50 footlong! In other words, campus retailers have to charge “double” because they are getting paid in worthless flex units. 
The scandal here is not overpricing but that 
our tuition payments are debited $300 for a semester’s allotment of flex points, but that account is only capable of purchasing $150 worth of goods. It is no wonder our university’s endowment has performed so well: Notre Dame is one of the world’s most deceitful FOREX traders (Just kidding, Scott). 
Thankfully, there is a light at the end of the tunnel. Renowned Notre Dame villain Barack Obama and the U.S. Treasury are embarking on a mission to colossally devalue the dollar, a step which would make flex points appreciably more valuable and, finally, restore students’ ability to purchase reasonably-priced soy milk. 
Thanks Barry. 
Adam Hansmann 
senior 
Morrissey Hall 
Feb. 1 


Orientation and identity 
I am a man. Regardless of my psychological, spiritual or emotional inclinations, my physical body has a natural sexual orientation. My body is naturally created to be complemented by a woman. The man and woman’s bodies fit together, almost like a puzzle. Man and woman are created for selfless, monogamous relation­ships, physically revealed through our body orientation and hormones, such as oxytocin. 
However, my desires do not always coincide with this natural orientation. In our world of hookups, porn, prostitutes, my desires are con­stantly conflicting. However, I do not let my raging hormones define me. My sexual appetite is not who I am. 
I am defined by my expression of those desires. I am not a hormonal, licentious teenager. I am a virgin. I am respectful of women. I am a man. According to God, my sexual orientation is: chaste, or at least in pur­suit of chastity. This chastity exists in absti­nence in single or religious life, or selfless, monogamous love in marriage. 
However, by the standards that many people are trying to instill, my sexual orientation is: heterosexual. That is, I desire sex with women. 
Putting “sexual orientation” into our non­discrimination clause would be degrading to both heterosexuals and homosexuals. It would seem to define us by our desires, rather than who we are. By our inclinations, rather than our choices. 
If, on the other hand, those advocating an addition of “sexual orientation” hope to use it in definition of our choices, we have a bigger problem. There is a reason that Notre Dame was voted as a university where “alternative lifestyles are not an alternative.” If we are truly to be a Catholic university, there is no alternative to chastity. It must be our mission to always pursue chaste lifestyles among all members of our community. 
At times, these members will fail. I have failed many, many times. However, we must not become complacent with these failures. We must always pursue the good, the true and the beautiful. 
In heaven, we will not be “gay,” “lesbian,” “bisexual,” “transgendered” or “straight.” We will be chaste. 
Christopher Damian 
freshman Dillon Hall Jan. 31 


Travesty at ND 
By all accounts, Notre Dame is a relatively pricey school. However, tuition at least in theory can be justified by the education that we as students are receiving and the jobs that this education should pro­vide (again this is in theory as I am a senior Finance major and thus far unemployed). The room and board is in excess of $10,000, which is more than it costs to attend a variety of schools in total. The food at the Dining Hall is fairly good if not occasionally repetitive. However, a real problem exists at least for some of us in the fine dormitory of Dillon Hall. While it’s not enough that our rooms are shoeboxes compared to some of the dorms on campus, residents of the third floor have to suffer the indignity of having only two work­ing showers in one of the two bathrooms that service the floor. Dillon has roughly 300 men in it. If we can assume an equal division of people per floor, that means 100 guys have seven showers to choose from. As a rational person could imagine, that creates quite the log­jam in the morning. This logjam, while a major inconvenience when an individually is fully able, is a nightmare when a person like say me has been on crutches until this point in the semester. Whether I choose to go to the bathroom on the other side or attempt to go down to the second floor, crutching while holding one’s towel up to avoid inadvertently flashing the cleaning ladies and carrying a show­er caddy is an immense juggling act that I have nearly failed at numerous times. Though I have perhaps come at this point in a fair­ly roundabout way, to put it simply, Notre Dame this is ridiculous. A superintendent in any apartment that costs $10,000 for nine months out of the year would be fired if he/she was unable to resolve an issue over this length of time. Notre Dame should be held to no lower standard. For my money’s worth, I want to be able to shower with ease. 
John Martell 
senior Dillon Hall Jan. 31 


Zinn’s (biased) history 
Howard Zinn’s death certainly marked the passing of a man with great intellectual talent. But at risk of being accused of speaking ill of the dead, it is critical that Zinn’s so-called “legacy” be clari­fied. It is unfortunate that he used his respected position as an academic as a bully pulpit of sorts to extol radical, revisionist views. His widely-read, iconoclastic polemic, “A People’s History of the United States” is a reductionist, quasi-Marxist depiction of American history as that of the inherently venerable masses of the poor pitted against the big, bad, perpetually evil, rich, elite vil­lains (almost always white males). Zinn committed the cardinal sin against history-writing; that is, he put theory first and facts second. “A People’s History of the United States” is rife with inac­curate facts and glaring omissions in accordance with his social and political aims (Zinn does not include even a single source cita­tion). As historian Michael Kammen wrote, “the people are enti­tled to have their history whole; not just those parts that will anger or embarrass them ... If that is asking for the moon, then we will cheerfully settle for balanced history.” Zinn forced histori­cal actors to comply with his own leftist heuristics, rather than attempting to understand them in the context of their respective time periods. “Persons of conscience” to whom Ms. Trionfero referred would be much better served reading “A History of the American People” by celebrated historian and Presidential Medal of Freedom Awardee Paul Johnson, a critical yet more balanced and optimistic account. But then again, if I disagree with him, I suppose I am one of those who do not qualify as “the people” in Zinn’s mind. I think I would rather not. 
Brendan O’Reilly 
sophomore Carroll Hall Feb. 2 


Celebrate Tory Jackson 
The Notre Dame family should take a moment to recognize and cele­brate the contribution of Tory Jackson. A team-first player asked to step in to a critical role as a freshman, Tory has consistently been the consum­mate leader and model teammate. Although he won’t be considered a sta­tistical great, the values of hard work, competitiveness and teamwork that he embodies should be celebrated by all of us. 
It is shameful that Tory’s senior season has been awash in the selfish play of one teammate trying to turn his team’s season in to a personal NBA tryout. His bumbling coach seems insistent on mismanaging time-outs and game situations. Sadly, much of Tory’s efforts are being lost in this shuffle of incompetence, but he continues to stand above. 
Thanks Tory. You continue to be the kind of athlete that makes the Notre Dame family proud. 
Respectfully, 
Joe Schueller 
alumnus Class of 1995 Jan. 31 
The Observer 




Scene
page 12 Wednesday, February 3, 2010 


the shockingly simple, yet beautiful in their simplicity, rules. 
By MATT BROWN 
Rule No. 3: Enjoy Woody Harrelson in his 
Scene Writer 
best role since “White Men Can’t Jump.” 
Tallahassee (Harrelson) is endearingly 
“It’s time to nut up or shut up.” insane with a childlike dedication to his 
That about sums up the movie search for a Twinkie and plain badass in “Zombieland,” a bizarre mix of laugh-out-his zombie destruction. loud comedy, sound zombie advice Rule No. 4: Watch for the cameo. Best. and life lessons that somehow Cameo. Ever. blend together and make one of Rule No. 5: Get ready to laugh. The the most entertaining hits just keep on coming as the movies I have seen movie rolls on; one-liners, run-in the past year. I ning jokes and situational cannot say enough comedy, this bad boy has about this movie; I them all. came out of the the-The basic plotline is this: atre and had to mas-zombies have taken over sage my mouth because the United States of it was sore from laugh-America. There are very few ing so much. Plus, as I survivors traveling the mentioned briefly roads, all trying to get some above, it has 100 per -place, to find relatives, to cent legitimate guide -escape, or just to find a piece lines for surviving the of past happiness. Our main next zombie apoca -protagonist, Columbus, is lypse that you find trying to get to … yourself in. Here Columbus, and is travel-are several rules ing the highway when he to keep in mind meets Tallahassee, who as you sit is trying to get to… you down to guessed it, Tallahassee. watch this The entire movie, we movie, do not find out their released real names, every per-
on 
DVD son only being 

on 
Feb. referred to by what 


2. city they are trying to 
R u l e reach. They continue No. 1: down the road and Watch eventually meet up it with with Wichita and her 
other peo -younger sister Little ple. You are Rock headed to … you going to get it. Anyway they want to continue down the road have people together and make you can talk their way to the west to about it coast with several small and quote it hiccups on the way. As with after -they go, we get treated wards. For to the zombie kill of the days you will week, some of find yourself Tallahassee’s favorite walking down the memories and how quad, remember-Columbus was first ing a part you exposed to this terrible need to share. zombie plague, all of Make sure you which are, at the very allow yourself a least, smile -inducing. safe number of Without giving much people you can away, the girls make it contact. to the park and manage 
Rule No. 2: to get into a bit of a Watch this with pickle, leaving our someone who intrepid hero torn has given between continuing his thought to the journey or riding to the eventual zombie rescue. Bottom line: apocalypse (it’s Enjoy this movie, that coming folks). is what it was made to Seeing their 
do and that is what it does thoughtful nods as the protagonist to the highest degree. Columbus (Jesse Eisenberg) outlines his rules for survival may be as entertaining as Contact Matt Brown at mbrown14@nd.edu 
The Observer 


Scene
Wednesday, February 3, 2010 page 13 

If only Beth could jump into love like five coins from the Trevi Fountain and While the others are being fools, 
By CAITLIN FERRARO 
her baby sister! Thus, Beth heads to the owners of those coins magically Nick is pursuing Beth ardently. But 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Rome, the arguably most romantic fall in love with her. This is where the can Beth open up her heart to love? city in the film takes a terrible turn for the And furthermore, is Nick the owner of 
“When in Rome” fails in so many w o r l d . worse. Suddenly five reasonably good the fifth coin and simply under the ways, especially in that actors turn into idiots. Dax spell? Unfortunately, that is the extent the film barely takes Shepard is annoying as a of the conflict and chemistry in the place in the magical s e l f -i n d u l g e n t film.If only someone else could save city. The model. Jon this film, but the rest of the support-viewer thinks Heder is ing cast fails as well. Anjelica Houston that they get pathetic is boring as Beth’s boss and Beth’s to experi -as a assistant Stacy (Kate Micucci) is sim­ence an strug-ply strange. hour and a g l i n g Bell tries to salvage the film, but half of beau-s t r e e t Beth’s character is a far cry from the tiful Rome, magician. interesting ones of Veronica Mars and but instead C o m e d y Sarah Marshall. Duhamel does his are left with a genius Will best as well, and it doesn’t hurt that poor picture Arnett is he is gorgeous. Unfortunately his good of Manhattan. reduced to a looks are one of the only redeemable Director Mark g o o f y , qualities about this film. The two did S t e v e n lovesick their best with an unfunny script and J o h n s o n ’ s painter with a poor dialogue. romantic come-r i d i c u l o u s But as the ridiculous credits in dy also falls Italian accent. which the cast break out into dancing short in achiev-And Danny roll, you can’t help wonder why these ing the senti -DeVito, in an two fall in love with each other — a ments of uncredited role, critical component of any successful romance or is a persistent romantic comedy. humor. Instead, it Unfortunately, sausage king. leaves the viewer except for one beautiful The four men chase Contact Caitlin Ferraro at wondering why montage of scenes while Beth is in a Beth all over New York City trying to cferrar1@nd.edu they spent their money and time on taxi on her way to the wedding, prove their love. such a disaster. Johnson fails to capture the magnifi-The comedy of 
“When in Rome” stars the usually cence, antiquity and romance of the film is that charming Kristen Bell as Beth, a Rome. uncomfortable hardworking art curator who cares At the wedding, Beth meets the kind that makes more about her job than finding love. hopelessly clumsy best man Nick (Josh the viewer want She is a total cliché, and it seems Duhamel) who just might be the guy to shield their nobody in her life, including her par-she is looking for to uproot her from eyes to avoid wit­ents, thinks she can be happy without her wayward ways of working too nessing the finding that special guy. The viewers much. These first 20 minutes are the e m b a r r a s s i n g ought to cringe at the caricature of a most enjoyable ones of the film, as stunts the char­woman presented and her need to be Bell and Duhamel have their only few acters continually completed by a man. So of course to cute moments together and the physi-pull. Whether it add insult to injury, her little sister cal comedy is funny. But then tragedy is the actors or Joan (Alexis Dziena) suddenly strikes — the gimmick of the plot gets the filmmaker’s announces she is getting married in the way. fault, there is a after knowing her fiancé for two After a misunderstanding with Nick, lack of comic weeks. Beth, feeling alone and lovelorn, takes timing. 



By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
This Saturday, Feb. 6, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be screening the Irish film “Hunger.” The film is director Steve McQueen’s (not that Steve McQueen) directorial debut, and has met with praise from film circles around the world. The movie centers on a real-life Irish hunger strike from 1981. Michael Fassbender plays Bobby Sands, an Irish revolutionary who organized this hunger strike to protest horrid conditions in the Maze Prison. 
But this prison is not just any prison. It is more of an internment camp than a prison, where internees live military -structured lives and study guerilla warfare. However, convicted prisoners are denied the same rights that these internees get. They are treated as sub-human and have almost no autonomy over their own rights. Enter Bobby Sands, a volunteer for the Provisional Irish Republican Army. While hunger strikes had been used both in and out of the prison system prior to this 1981 strike, Sands ’ proved most effective. Prisoners joined one at a time at spread out intervals, hoping to garner more public support and put heavy pressure on Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. This proved to be more effective than past tactics. But to know the results of Sands ’ hunger strike, check out “Hunger” this weekend. 
However, “Hunger” is more than a simple black-and-white retelling of this famous Irish historical event. It explores the lives and relationships of the men involved and it questions the ethics and morality of hunger strikes. 
“Hunger” has received numerous awards and nominations since its release in 2008, including the Caméra d’Or prize for new filmmak­ers at the Cannes Film Festival. The film has gone on to become one of the most successful Irish movies ever made. Director McQueen and star Fassbender have also garnered mas­sive praise from around the world. 
“Hunger” is sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It begins at 
6:30 Saturday and runs for 90 min­utes. It is a free but ticketed event. For tickets or more information, call or visit the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Ticket Office. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 3, 2010 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Cousins scores 18 in Wildcats’win over Ole Miss 
Onuaku scores season high in Syracuse’s victory over Providence; Nova continutes streak after defeating Seton Hall 81-71 
He created a small furor over the moments later and Kentucky 
Associated Press 
weekend when he told reporters he appeared to be ready to bury the 
LEXINGTON, Ky. — John Wall “wasn’t having any fun” after the Rebels. shook off a recent slump to score 17 Wildcats beat Vanderbilt. Mississippi hung around, howev­points to go with seven assists while The freshman expressed frustra-er, behind the play of White and leading No. 4 Kentucky to an 85-75 tion with Calipari and his own Eniel Polynice as the game turned win over No. 25 Mississippi on inability to live up to the sky-high into a tennis match. One team Tuesday night. expectations he’s built for himself. would go on a run, and the other 
DeMarcus Cousins added 18 During a private chat, Calipari would answer. points and 13 rebounds for the reminded Wall that even the best Kentucky put together a 15-0 Wildcats (21-1, 6-1 Southeastern freshmen struggle at times, includ-burst to go up 27-9 but the Rebels Conference), who built an early dou-ing his former Memphis stars rallied with an 11-2 surge. The ble-digit lead then held off a couple Tyreke Evans and Derrick Rose. Wildcats managed to take a 46-37 of second-half rallies by the Rebels. Calipari urged Wall to stop worrying halftime lead, an advantage that 
Even better for the Wildcats was about trying to compete with his could have been larger if not for 11 the steady play of Wall, who was all own hype and try to focus on simply turnovers. smiles following a meeting with enjoying himself. Darnell Dodson hit two 3-pointers coach John Calipari to clear the air His mood appeared to be corre-early in the second half to help after both expressed frustration sponding with his play. After a scin-Kentucky extend the lead to 58-41, over the freshman’s recent play. tillating start to the season in which but Mississippi kept coming. 
Terrico White led Mississippi (16-he became a media darling, Wall’s The Rebels pulled within 60-57 on 6, 4-4) with 19 points and Chris numbers have tailed off recently. a basket by White with 13:55 to play Warren added 15 but Mississippi He came in averaging 16.2 points before the Wildcats did something missed freshman big man Reginald on 39 percent shooting in SEC play, it’s been unable to do at times this Buckner, who sat out his second hardly terrible but not exactly up to season: finish strong. straight game with a sprained the ridiculously high standards Wall Cousins, collecting his fifth straight ankle. had set for himself. double-double, started Kentucky’s 
Ole Miss certainly could have used Wall said Monday he and Calipari game-clinching 11-2 run with a put­Buckner’s presence. Kentucky shot were “cool” and that “everything is back. Darius Miller then knocked 50 percent from the field and OK.” down a 3-pointer before Cousins outscored the Rebels 44-30 in the It certainly appeared the good took a charge. Patrick Patterson, No. 2 Villanova 81, Seton Hall 71 win for the program. paint. timeswerebackagainsttheRebels. whohad12points,naileda3-point-VILLANOVA, Pa.— Corey Seton Hall is 0-28 against 
With more than 20NBA scouts Walldunkedonarunoutlessthan er then added athree-pointplay as Stokes hit two 3-pointers during teams ranked Nos. 1-3 The and a handful of general managers 2 minutes in to give the Wildcats a the Wildcats went back in front 71-the decisive run and scored all 11 Associated Press poll. on hand, all eyes were on Wall’s quick 7-0 lead. He screamed as he 59. of his points in the second half, Hazell, the only Pirate to finish play. The rest of the packed house at landed, perhaps letting two weeks of Mississippi never got back within helping No. 2 Villanova hold off a in double figures, did not play the Rupp Arena was a little more frustration out in the process. single digits, and Wall capped his serious scare from Seton Hall in final 4 minutes of the game. focused on his demeanor. He then drilled a 3-pointer night with a 3-pointer to put an 81-71 victory Tuesday night. Not Villanova. The 10-deep 
Kentucky up 80-62 with 4:05 Stokes was a non-factor for the Wildcats got some kind of pro-remaining. Wildcats (20-1, 9-0 Big East) until duction out of every player. 
He walked off the court to a he broke a tie with a 3. He quick-Antonio Pena scored 16 points, standing ovation, and received ly followed with another 3-point-Scottie Reynolds had 15 and another one when he came back er for a long-range start to an Corey Fisher 12. Six players had onto the court for a postgame radio 11-0 run that helped put the at least five rebounds and 10 appearance as the crowd exhaled game away and extended scored. Those are the kind of with Kentucky’s star apparently Villanova’s winning streak to 11 numbers usually seen in back in his coach’s good graces. straight games. blowouts, not a 10-point win that 
Playing with their highest rank-was tight for all but the final few No. 3 Syracuse 85,Providence 68 ing since they were No. 2 for two minutes. 
Standout reserve Kris Joseph weeks in February 2006, the Reynolds became the eighth had a career-high 23 points, Wildcats could not make a seri-Villanova player to score 2,000 Arinze Onuaku added a season-ous run against Seton Hall until points. He scored a beautiful fin-high 20, and No. 3 Syracuse beat late. ger roll for a 60-58 lead, then Providence on Tuesday night. Jeremy Hazell kept thoughts of dished a sweet cross-lane pass to 
Syracuse (22-1, 9-1 Big East) has a second Top-10 Big East upset Fisher on the break for a 62-58 won nine straight and is off to the alive, scoring 32 points on 12 of lead. best start in school history. The 23 shooting for the Pirates (12-8, The Wildcats are the only Big Orange were 21-1 in 1979-80, but 3-6), who were outrebounded 50-East team unbeaten in confer-they had never won 22 of their 31. ence play. That mark is in serious first 23 games to begin a season. Seton Hall beat then-No. 9 jeopardy over the next week. The 
It was the second game of an Pittsburgh 64-61 on Jan. 24, but Big East favorites play at No. 7 eight-game span in which the the Pirates failed to build on that Georgetown on Saturday and at Friars (12-10, 4-6) will face six marquee win, losing by two No. 6 West Virginia on Feb. 8. ranked teams. They beat then-No. points in overtime at South Villanova is so deep that it led 19 Connecticut 81-66 last week to Florida. by seven at halftime even with knock the Huskies out of the Hazell made the idea of anoth-Stokes missing the only shot he national rankings. er stunner seem realistic with the took. He hit three 3s in the sec-
Syracuse broke open a three-way he was shooting the 3. He ond half and suddenly that first point game with a 22-7 spurt to made six of them, but it was his half whitewash meant nothing. start the second half. Onuaku layup that helped the Pirates Not when so many different play-started it with a resounding two-erase a halftime deficit and grab ers are scoring. hand dunk and his tip-in gave the a 58-56 lead. Hall of Famer and former Orange a 44-34 lead with 18:35 At that point, the Pirates had Orioles shortstop Cal Ripken Jr. left. made 23 of 46 shots from the had a front-row seat for 
Jamine Peterson led Providence field. They made 6 of 21 the rest Villanova’s 36th straight win at with 25 points and freshman of the way, costing them what its on-campus home, the Vincent Council had 16. would have been a monumental Pavilion. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about Slow down, you crazy child you get old It's funny actually there's another has been sexually assaulted, we you're so ambitious for a juvenile You're gonna kick off before you salesmen out here.PERSONAL can help. WANTED But then if you're so smart, tell me even 
Why are you still so afraid? Get halfway through He sent out this memo as he always UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do For more information, visit Notre When will you realize, Vienna waits does and it was about not go it alone. Notre Dame has Dame's website: gradrentals.viewwork.com Where's the fire, what's the hurry for you? professionalism in the work place many resources in place to assist ———————————————-about? ——————————————— and of course he singled me out so you. http.csap.nd.edu The first thing to realize about Bill You'd better cool it off before you 15 years I’ve been here. I just had to mess with him. If you or someone you love needs ——————————————— Bryson is that burn it out And I’ve sacrificed a lot. ——————————————— confidential support or assistance, CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND he fits everywhere. And nowhere. You've got so much to do and And I’ve put having a family on hold, Last week Dwight sent out a memo please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please Only so many hours in a day about the dress code. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. visit our website Which is perhaps the very thing that and I’ve never gone hand gliding, 
has given him the ability But you know that when the truth is So this is me showing him For more information, visit ND's web http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-to share places with all of us so told.. and I’ve never driven my car to the site: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu file.net. vividly. That you can get what you want or top of mount Washington. that I'm taking it very seriously. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, February 3, 2010 
page 15 
NCAA Men’s Basketball Division I Coaches’ Poll 
team previous 
1 Kansas 2 2 Villanova 3 3 Kentucky 1 4 Syracuse 4 5 Michigan State 5 6 West Virginia 9 7 Purdue 6 8 Georgetown 11 9 Duke 7 10 Texas 6 11 Kansas State 13 12 BYU 10 13 Gonzaga 8 14 Tennessee 14 15 Butler 18 16 Wisconsin 16 17 Temple 15 18 Ohio State 24 19 Georgia Tech 22 20 Vanderbilt 23 21 Pittsburgh 17 22 Northern Iowa 25 23 New Mexico NR 24 Baylor NR 25 Cornell NR 
NCAA Women’s Basketball Division I Coaches’ Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  NOTRE DAME  3  
4  Nebraska  4  
5  Tennessee  5  
6  Duke  7  
7  Xavier  10  
8  West Virginia  11  
9  Ohio State  6  
10  Texas A&M  8  
11  Oklahoma State  17  
12  Florida State  14  
13  Oklahoma  12  
14  Georgia  9  
15  North Carolina  13  
16  Georgetown  15  
17  Baylor  16  
18  Kentucky  23  
19  Iowa State  18  
20  Green Bay  22  
21  LSU  19  
22  Vanderbilt  24  
23  Texas  25  
24  Virginia  20  
25  St. John’s (N.Y.)  NR  



around the dial 
NBA 
Heat at Celtics 8 p.m., ESPN 
College Basketball 
Kansas at Colorado 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 

Peyton Manning shines on media day 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Peyton Manning worked the room masterfully. He took questions from all directions, throwing in plenty of eye contact. He spoke glowingly when necessary, took a few stabs at humor and steered away from any­thing that might come across as controversial. 
Yes, the Indianapolis Colts quarterback handled Super Bowl media day with the same aplomb he shows at the line of scrimmage. 
Manning, a four-time MVP and clearly the biggest star in South Florida, spoke on a wide range of subjects Tuesday without revealing a whole lot we didn’t already know. He certainly didn’t pro­vide any bulletin-board fod­der to Sunday’s opponent, the New Orleans Saints. 
Heck, that’s his hometown, the city where his father Archie played and still lives. If the Colts weren’t trying to win a title of their own, Manning would’ve been the Saints’ biggest fan. He was certainly happy when they beat Minnesota in an over­time thriller to earn their first trip to the Super Bowl, a game that Manning won three years ago. 
“The Saint were my team growing up,” he said. “I was really excited for New Orleans, watching them win that game against the Vikings. It was exciting to see the French Quarter empty in the third quarter and then be packed after the game. I had a lot of friends down there tell me what it was like.” 
Manning said he also appreciates the history of the Colts, dating back to their days in Baltimore. In fact, one of his father’s favorite players was Hall of Fame quarter­back Johnny Unitas (the other: Mickey Mantle). 
“I understand the signifi­cance of Unitas,” Manning said. “I still feel that connec­tion to Colts history.” 
Not long after being drafted by Indianapolis, Manning met Saints quarterback Drew Brees, who was then playing at right-down-the-road Purdue. 
“He came to see a Colts game,” said Manning, who then quickly pointed out that Brees “paid for his ticket. Everything was on the up­and-up,” apparently in case the NCAA was listening. 
Manning didn’t get any off­beat questions, but that didn’t stop him from trying to add a little levity to the proceedings. 
“No, I’m not superstitious,” he said. “I’m just a little ‘sti­tious. OK, that’s a bad joke. Eli gave me that one. I take it back.” 
Later, when another reporter broached the same subject, Manning was more revealing. He doesn’t carry around a rabbit’s foot, but he does have a routine he goes through before every game. When he first gets to the sta­dium, he reads the game program from front to back. 
IN BRIEF 
Crittendon will not challenge suspension 
NEW YORK — The NBA players’ association says it will not appeal Javaris Crittenton’s suspension for having a gun in the Washington Wizards’ locker room. 
Crittenton and teammate Gilbert Arenas were suspended for the sea­son without pay last Wednesday by NBA commissioner David Stern. Though Arenas said immediately he would not contest the penalty, Crittenton wanted to weigh his options. 
Executive director Billy Hunter said in a statement Tuesday that Crittenton has informed the NBPA that he won’t challenge the suspen­sion. 
“Javaris has said that he believes far more good will be done by moving forward and focusing on the future,” Hunter said. “We respect his decision and accordingly no grievance will be filed on his behalf.” 
Williams, Clijsters to square off in exhibiton 
NEW YORK — Get ready for the rematch: Serena Williams and Kim Clijsters will play each other in an exhibition at Madison Square Garden on March 1. 
The semifinal at the BNP Paribas Showdown for the Billie Jean King Cup will come less than six months after — and about a 10-mile drive from — their U.S. Open semifinal, which ended abruptly with Williams’ outburst at a line judge. 
Clijsters went on to win the tourna­ment. Williams later was fined a record $82,500 and placed on two years of probation at Grand Slam events. 
The other semifinal March 1 pits Williams’ sister Venus against reign­ing French Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova. The one-day event will feature one-set semifinals and a three-set final and has $1.2 million in prize money. 
Kara Lawson signs with Connecticut Sun 
UNCASVILLE, Conn. — Former University of Tennessee star Kara Lawson has signed a three-year contract with the WNBA’s Connecticut Sun. 
Lawson, a gold medalist with the 2008 U.S. Olympic team, spent seven seasons with the now-defunct Sacramento Monarchs, where she averaged 9.3 points in 217 games. 
Connecticut coach Mike Thibault says he expects Lawson to help the Sun at both guard positions. 
The move was the latest in a busy offseason for Connecticut. The Sun acquired forward DeMya Walker in the dispersal draft for Sacramento in December. The team traded guard Lindsay Whalen and the sec­ond overall pick in the 2010 WNBA draft to Minnesota for former University of Connecticut star Renee Montgomery and the draft’s top pick. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, February 3, 2010 
NHL 
Capitals defeat Bruins for 11th straight victory 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — The Washington Capitals set a franchise record with their 11th straight win and sent the Boston Bruins to their eighth consecutive loss as Brooks Laich broke a tie early in the third period of a 4-1 win Tuesday night. 
The NHL’s highest-scoring team trailed the league ’s lowest -scoring team after 
one period but came out aggressively in the second and tied the game on Mike Knuble’s goal at 2:04. Laich then scored at 5:04 of the third, Boyd Gordon connect­ed less than three minutes later and Alex Ovechkin added an empty-net goal at 
19:28 against the Bruins, who are 0-6-2 in their past eight games. 
The Capitals broke the club record set from Jan. 27-Feb. 18, 1984 and have the NHL’s longest winning streak since the San Jose Sharks also won 11 in a row from Feb. 21 -March 14, 2008. During their 11 wins, the Capitals, who lead the Eastern Conference, have outscored opponents 51-22. 
The Bruins finished first in the East last season but have fallen out of the top eight in the conference that make the playoffs with their current slide in which they’ve been outscored 28­12. It’s their longest losing streak since they also lost eight in a row from Dec. 22, 1955-Jan. 12, 1956. 
At home, the Bruins are 0­6-1 since their last win on Jan. 1, 2-1 over the Philadelphia Flyers in the 
outdoor Winter Classic at Fenway Park. 
Laich got the go -ahead goal on a turnover by Boston defenseman Matt Hunwick, who passed the puck behind his net out to the left boards. Washington ’s Alexander Semin got it there and passed to Laich, who scored his 17th goal on a quick shot from the slot. 
Gordon made it 3-1 with his second goal at 7:51 on a pass from Tom Poti from along the right boards. Goalie Tim Thomas skated toward Poti, who sent the puck to Gordon in the slot. Gordon put it into the open left side of the net. Thomas made 22 saves. 
Ovechkin finished the scoring with his 36th goal of the season. 
The Bruins had taken a 1­0 lead with a two -man advantage when David Krejci scored at 6:58 of the first period, just eight sec­
onds after Semin joined Matt Bradley in the penalty box. Marc Savard passed from low in the right circle across the crease where Krejci scored his 10th goal of the season. 
That gave Boston its first lead after one period since Jan. 5 when it won 4-1 at Ottawa. The Bruins were 1­8-2 in their next 11 before Tuesday. 
But the Capitals struck early in the second period. Poti carried the puck across the blue line on the left side and continued in deep before passing to Knuble, who tipped it in from the right corner of the net. 
Krejci had a chance to give the Bruins a lead on a penalty shot at 10:34 of the second period after Knuble hit him from behind. But Krejci’s shot went wide to the left of goalie Jose Theodore, who made 41 saves. 
Notes: Bruins defenseman Mark Stuart missed the game after having surgery Monday for a broken left pinky finger and is expected to be sidelined four weeks. ... Washington’s Mike Green, the highest-scoring defense-man in the NHL, served the second game of a three ­game suspension for deliv­ering an elbow to the head of Florida’s Michael Frolik 
on Friday. ... The Bruins went 1 for 4 in the power play in the first period after having two or fewer power-play opportunities in eight of their previous 10 games. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Greene scores 18 for Huskies 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. — Kalana Greene scored 18 points to help top-ranked Connecticut overcome a sluggish first half and beat No. 11 West Virginia 80-47 on Tuesday night for its 61st straight victory. 
Maya Moore added 15 points and a season-high 14 rebounds for UConn (22-0, 9-0 Big East), which is only nine wins short of the NCAA and school record of 70 straight wins. The Huskies are on pace to equal that mark in the quarterfi­nals of the Big East tournament and break it in the semis. 
UConn only led by eight at the half, but used a 24-3 run during the first part of the second half to put the game away. 
Sarah Miles scored 14 points and Liz Repella added 13 for West Virginia (20-3, 7-2), which matched its highest ranking ever this week. The Mountaineers have only beaten Connecticut once in 22 tries and that came back in 1982 before Geno Auriemma was at the helm of the Huskies. 
UConn had been dominating conference play winning by an average of nearly 39 points a game with virtually every Big East game decided at the half. South Florida had been the only team to stay within 20 of the Huskies in the first half, and that was a 14-point deficit. 
West Virginia did its best to stay with the top-ranked team. The Mountaineers slowed the game down, walking the ball up the court and taking time off the shot clock and found themselves only down 32-24 at the break. 

It was UConn’s lowest-scoring first half of the season and just the third time that it didn’t have a dou­ble-digit lead by the half. 
The Huskies seemed out of sorts on offense. They made terrific backdoor cuts for wide open layups, but missed them. They also turned the ball over an uncharac­teristic 10 times. 
Even when UConn built a 28-15 lead midway through the period, West Virginia didn’t get rattled, scoring the next seven points to stay in the game. 
That all changed in the second half as Greene, Moore, and Tina Charles took over. Leading 36-29 after Miles’ layup with 17:08 left in the game, UConn scored 24 of the next 27 points, including seven straight by Charles. Greene also had six points during the spurt with a three-point play and a 3­pointer. Freshman Kelly Faris capped it off with a basket that made it 60-32 midway through the period. 

Wednesday, February 3, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Favre’s image helps Vikings in 09-10 season 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — As Brett Favre mulls over whether he has another season left in him, a lot more hinges on the decision than just wins and losses for the Minnesota Vikings. 
Favre not only led the Vikings to their most successful season on the field in more than a decade, his presence was a boost to everything from the team’s box office and mer­chandise sales to sponsorship deals and its pursuit of a new stadium. 
“It has a lot of far-reaching impli­cations,” said Matt Delzell, a direc­tor for Los Angeles-based Davie Brown Talent, one of the largest tal­ent coordinators in the United States. “Not just on the field, but financially it’s a huge hit to the Vikings if he decides to retire.” 
Favre’s first season in Minnesota was a banner year in more ways than one. The Vikings won 12 games in the regular season and came achingly close to advancing to the Super Bowl, losing at New Orleans in overtime of the NFC title game. 
It was also a big year for the Vikings on the business side. Favre’s Vikings jersey was the No. 1 seller throughout the league, the ticket office was deluged with requests in the days following his signing in August and the team locked down some lucrative spon­sorship deals that were sorely needed to offset the lack of revenue generated by the Metrodome. 
“Certainly he had an impact,” said Steve LaCroix, the Vikings vice president of sales and marketing. “It’s hard to quantify it exactly, but there’s no doubt he helped.” 
LaCroix would not release finan­cial details, but said merchandise sales from the team’s Web site and official team stores in the Minneapolis area had record sales this season. The team also secured naming rights for the field for the first time in franchise history, from the Mall of America. 
While that deal was in negotia­tion before Favre signed with the team, LaCroix said the quarter­back’s presence helped wrap it up in time for the highly anticipated Monday night game against his for­mer team, the Green Bay Packers, on Oct. 5. 
“You can’t say it was all because of Favre,” Delzell said. “But with Tarvaris Jackson at quarterback, it probably doesn’t get done that quickly.” 
Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak said the local economy benefited from Favre’s surprising relocation. 
“In the middle of a horrible peri­od for retail, they single-handedly lifted the economy with massive numbers of sales of pink and purple clothing,” Rybak said. “Brett Favre helped old men like me think they could still have a chance someday to play for the Minnesota Twins or the Minnesota Vikings.” 
NFL 
Saints will depend on Bush 
Associated Press 
MIAMI— Reggie Bush can make the spectacular look rou­tine. 
And he can make the routine look too hard to handle. 
Since the New Orleans Saints made the dynamic running back from Southern California the sec­ond overall pick in the 2006 draft, Bush has been a revelation and a disappointment. At times, he resembles the breathtaking game-breaker who won the Heisman Trophy in 2005. Then he morphs into a fumbling, pass-dropping, injury-ravaged nonenti­ty — a third-stringer with little impact in the NFL’s most potent offense. 
Unquestionably, the Saints need him to display every one of his award-winning talents and none of his weaknesses in Sunday’s Super Bowl against the Indianapolis Colts. 
“I haven’t lived up to the expec­tations I set for myself,” Bush admitted Tuesday while seated on a podium at media day, surround­ed by dozens of reporters. “Before I got to the NFL, I thought it would be the Super Bowl every year, make the Pro Bowl every year. You discover it’s hard. It’s hard to get to the Super Bowl. I’ve been in the league four years and just got here. There’s a lot of great players who never get to the Super Bowl. 
“I haven’t lived up to the expec­tations I set for myself,” he repeated, “but I know it will come. 
“All I want to do is be the best player ever to play this game, and I’d be remiss if I didn’t feel that way,” Bush said. “If I didn’t feel that way when I step on the field, I’d be selling myself short.” 
Some might argue Bush has come up far too short for the Saints. He hasn’t made the Pro Bowl or All-Pro team. He hasn’t approached 1,000 yards rushing in any season, and his career total of 1,940 yards is 66 fewer than second-year back Chris Johnson’s for the Titans in 2009. 
He hasn’t beaten out Pierre Thomas, an undrafted free agent in 2007, for the starting job, but, worse, sometimes Bush is coach Sean Payton’s third choice to carry the ball. His second choice is another undrafted player, Mike Bell. 
Then there is Bush’s inability to stay in the lineup. He’s missed 12 of 48 regular-season games with a variety of knee injuries. 
Ah, but then there are glimpses of greatness. 
Two of them came in the divi­sional round victory over Arizona: an 83-yard punt return and a 46­yard run, each for scores. On both, Bush’s burst past would-be tacklers was jaw-dropping. 
Bush generally has lived up to his billing as a punt returner and is an important piece of Payton’s passing schemes — so much so that opponents must plan for him at all times, even to the point of making sure a cornerback covers him. 
“They have really good backs, fast backs with Reggie Bush,” Colts linebacker Clint Session said. “We try not to get a lot of separa­tion with a guy like him in the open field, so we’re probably play­ing him a little tighter than nor­mal. 
“We have to know the beast, as we call it. Know the beast, respect his speed, and try to keep a close eye on him.” 
The Colts have a practice squad player named Taj Smith who is quite elusive, but as Session notes, Smith is no beast. And no Bush. 
“That’s a once-in-a-lifetime ath­lete that you’ll see,” Session said. 
That’s what everyone expected to see when Bush landed in New Orleans four years ago. Even members of the local archdiocese who often attend Saints games suggested Bush was destined to come to their city; after all, there was a St. Reginald of Orleans in France in the 13th century. 
When the Houston Texans drafted defensive end Mario Williams with the first overall pick, the Saints never hesitated to select Bush, whose resume at USC included two national titles. 
His rookie season was impres­sive, at times dazzling. He scored nine touchdowns, combined for 1,307 yards from scrimmage, and helped the Saints reach the NFC championship game for the first time since their inception in 1967. 
He was healthy. He was produc­tive. He was a budding superstar. 
Since then, not so much. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, February 3, 2010 
NHL 
Rangers sign new forwards 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta — The New York Rangers acquired forwards Olli Jokinen and Brandon Prust from the Calgary Flames for for­wards Christopher Higgins and Ales Kotalik late Monday night. 
The trade was announced by both teams shortly after the Flames were beaten 3-0 by the visiting Philadelphia Flyers. 
“You’ve got to play hard every time you go on the ice, no matter what kind of distractions you have going on,” Jokinen said. “You play for that sweater — the logo on the front of you — so long as they haven’t told you you’re not part of the team.” 
Jokinen, who along with Prust was in the Calgary lineup against Philadelphia, has 11 goals and 24 assists in 56 games this season. 
“Definitely, it’s a slap in the face to get traded,” Jokinen said as he left Pengrowth Saddledome. “It was a long day. We heard every­thing (Sunday) night, I was kind of surprised. I wasn’t expecting to get moved, but it’s part of the business and I’ve got to move on.” 
Prust posted one goal and four assists in 43 games with the Flames. He is second in the NHL with 18 fighting majors. 
The move helps the Rangers unload two players who failed to live up to expectations in their first season with New York. 
It was the second big trade completed by the Flames in two days. Calgary sent star defense-man Dion Phaneuf, forward Fredrik Sjostrom and minor league defenseman Keith Aulie to the Toronto Maple Leafs for defenseman Ian White and for­wards Matt Stajan, Niklas Hagman and Jamal Mayers on Sunday. 
The 31-year-old Jokinen, a Finnish Olympian, was acquired by Calgary from the Phoenix Coyotes at last year’s trade dead­line. He is now a likely candidate to center New York’s top line that features leading scorer Marian Gaborik. 
The trade became a strong rumor on Sunday night. 
“My phone was going off the hook last night, just waiting to hear confirmation and pacing around for hours. I guess I didn’t sleep too well,” Prust said. “Then you come out here and you have to get focused and get ready to help your team get two points. 
“We’re professionals and you’ve got to go about business a certain way. It was definitely a different way, but it’s done now.” 
Jokinen is earning $5.25 million this season in the final year of his contract. He scored eight goals in his first six games with the Flames last season and then was held off the scoresheet in the final 13 contests. 
“Eleven months ago, when I got traded here I was pretty excited,” said Jokinen, who has 248 goals and 305 assists in 854 NHL games with Los Angeles, Florida, Phoenix, Calgary and the New York Islanders. “I enjoyed my time here, and I was hoping I could stay here for the rest of my career. 
“Like I say, it’s a cruel business, but that’s the way it goes. It comes with the salary. You make five mil­lion dollars, 11 goals is not going to cut it.” 
WTT 
Hingis considers return to WTT 
Associated Press 
Martina Hingis can’t help but contemplate yet another comeback when she sees the success Kim Clijsters and Justine Henin are having after being away from tennis. 
“There’s a spark,” Hingis said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. 
But she also said she would rule out the possibility of a return to the tour “at this point,” primarily because of all the travel. 
“If it was played in the backyard,” Hingis said from her home in Switzerland, “then I’d probably think about it twice.” 
The five-time Grand Slam singles champion and youngest woman to be ranked No. 1 retired for the second time in 2007, when she was given a two-year suspension for testing positive for cocaine. Hingis denied taking the drug but did not appeal the ruling. 
That ban ended Sept. 30, and the 29-year-old Hingis is eager to get the chance to play more tennis this year: She has committed to a full season of World TeamTennis, the coed league founded by Billie Jean King and heading into its 35th season. 
Hingis will be picked by a team in the marquee player draft Feb. 11. Other top names in the draft include the Williams sisters, John McEnroe and Maria Sharapova, although they’re going to be playing only one to five matches, while Hingis is slated for all 14 in the reg­ular season. 
In 2005, Hingis used World TeamTennis to help prepare for her first comeback. Clijsters also played in the WTT last year as a way to warm up before getting back on tour after more than two years away while getting married and having a baby. 

Wednesday, February 3, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Granger, Pacers snap Raptors’ 5-game streak 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana Pacers were on their best behavior while their teacher was away. 
Lester Conner coached in place of Jim O’Brien, who attended a family funeral, and Indiana responded with an impressive 130-115 victory over the surging Toronto Raptors on Tuesday night. 
Danny Granger scored 23 points to help the Pacers snap Toronto’s five-game winning streak. Indiana also ended a three-game skid. 
Conner deflected credit. 
“The guys gave me all they wanted, and I said, ‘Hey, you guys are telling me congratu­lations, it’s congratulations to you because you guys needed this more than I did,’” Conner said. “When the substitute teacher is around, you want to try to do good or try to test him to see what he has. Those guys went out and played their hearts out.” 
The players said they want­ed to win for Conner. 
“Les is a lot of fun, he’s a great assistant coach,” for­ward Troy Murphy said. “He’s a guy you can always talk to and he’s a good dude. We’re happy he got the win.” 
Murphy had 20 points and 14 rebounds. Roy Hibbert added 18 points and nine boards for Indiana, and Earl Watson finished with 15 points and a season-high 11 assists. 
It was a season scoring high for the Pacers, who had scored fewer than 100 points in six of their previous nine games. Seven Pacers scored in double figures. 
“A lot of guys played some minutes and we just moved the ball well,” Granger said. “I don’t know why it was so bal­anced, but that’s the type of games we need.” 

It was a much different game than Indiana’s 117-102 loss in Toronto on Sunday. This time, the Pacers made 33 of 35 free throws and shot 52 percent from the field. 
It was just the fifth time the Pacers shot better than 50 percent this season. 
“A little different play call­ing, a little different freedom,” Murphy said. “He has his own style apart from coach O’Brien, but the message is the same. He did a great job tonight and really filled in well for coach.” 
Chris Bosh had 35 points and 15 rebounds, and Andrea Bargnani scored a career-high 34 points for the Raptors. 
Bargnani said the defensive meltdown rendered his per­sonal accomplishment mean­ingless. 
“When you lose like that, it doesn’t really matter,” he said. 
The Raptors couldn’t explain their lack of defensive intensi­ty. It was the highest point total they’ve allowed this sea­son. 
“The reason we came out the way we did, I don’t know exactly why,” said Toronto guard Jarrett Jack, who played for the Pacers last sea­son. “We just didn’t play our type of game at all.” 
The Pacers scored 50 points in the paint, their highest total of 2010. 
“We didn’t do a good job of getting up into them and mak­ing them do something else,” Bosh said. “Our weakside defense was nonexistent and we had too many blow-bys.” 
Indiana led 58-53 at half­time and opened the second half with an 18-8 surge, capped by Murphy’s 3-pointer. Brandon Rush’s 3 extended Indiana’s lead to 20 points just over 5 minutes into the third quarter. 
The Pacers shot 76 percent and scored 42 points in the third, one point short of its season high for a single peri­od. Eight different players scored for the Pacers in the quarter. 
Bargnani helped keep the Raptors in the game with 19 points in the third. Dahntay Jones made two free throws with 1 second left in the peri­od to put the Pacers up 100­86. 
The Raptors’ defense didn’t improve much in the fourth quarter. 
“I think we played terrible defense,” Bargnani said. “We gave up 130 points. We wasted a good opportunity, but we’ve got to give them credit. They played really good.” 
The Pacers looked like a dif­ferent team, but Conner said he stuck to O’Brien’s philoso­phy for the most part. The biggest change was starting Hibbert instead of Mike Dunleavy. 
“We never really try to change anything because it would catch the guys off guard,” Conner said. “I’ve been around coach O’Brien for a long time, so I know exactly what he wants and how he wants it. What he did say to me on the plane, he told me to do whatever I need to do to get a win.” 
page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, February 3, 2010 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to snap streak 
Olivet and Trine and Hope called upon to win the inside 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
and Calvin. A win tonight for battle for Saint Mary’s, espe-
Sports Writer 
the Belles would keep them in cially by rebounding on the the upper half of the MIAA, defensive side of the floor to 
Saint Mary’s will look to while a loss would relegate limit second chances for break out of a four-game los-them to an unfavorable seed Adrian. ing streak and regain third in the conference tourna-Sophomore guard Patsy place in the MIAA when it ment. Mahoney will assist junior hosts Adrian tonight in a cru-The Bulldogs are led by guard Liz Wade — who has cial conference clash. guards Jennifer Perrin and the third-most steals in Belles 
The Belles (10-9, 5-6) sit a Anita Stamps, who each aver-history — in guarding the half-game behind the age 12 points per game. Bulldog backcourt of Perrin Bulldogs, a team Saint Mary’s “[They are] two very good and Stamps. Sophomore has already guards,” Saint guard Maggie Ronan will also defeated by 10 Mary’s coach have to contribute on both points. In fact, “[The Bulldogs] have Jennifer ends of the floor to counter that game was Henley said. Adrian’s perimeter-based 
the ability to score
the Belles’ last “They have the attack. victory, as anywhere on the foor.” ability to score A win for the Belles tonight they opened anywhere on would give them momentum the second leg the floor.” during the season’s home 
Jennifer Henley 
of conference The Belles stretch and promises to be a
Belles coach
play by drop-must guard gritty battle for points on ping four f o r w a r d every possession. straight A s h l e y “The game will be about games, including three by five McClarren as well, who aver-which team can play better points or less. Four teams — ages just under nine points defense,” Henley said. Adrian, Saint Mary’s, Olivet per game and “is physical and Saint Mary’s hosts Adrian at and Trine — have five confer-gets after the boards,” Henley 7:30 p.m. in the Angela ence wins. Hope and Calvin said. Athletic Facility. sit atop the conference with Sophomore forward Kelly 10 wins, and tonight’s games Murphy and senior forward Contact Allan Joseph at include match-ups between Anna Kammrath will be ajoseph2@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Host Wisconsin blows past No. 5 Michigan St. 
The Spartans, who haven’t 
Associated Press 
won in Madison since 2001, 
MADISON, Wis. — Jason started flat before losing their Bohannon scored 19 points to floor leader. After Lucas left, lead No. 16 Wisconsin to a 67-Wisconsin went on a 10-2 run. 49 victory over No. 5 Michigan Michigan State, which got 11 State on Tuesday night, snap-points from Durrell Summers, ping the Spartans perfect Big missed seven straight shots Ten start and leaving them down the stretch, going more without leading scorer Kalin than 6½ minutes without a bas-Lucas. ket. 
Jordan Taylor added 17 The Spartans had been off to points as Wisconsin (17-5, 7-3) their best conference start in won its third game over a team history and seemed poised to ranked sixth or better this sea-run away with another regular-son and its 18th straight at the season conference title with Kohl Center despite senior four weeks of league play left. guard Trevon Hughes’ early But Wisconsin dominated from foul trouble. the start, trailing only 1-0 
Michigan State (19-4, 9-1) before scoring nine straight may have lost a lot more after points. Lucas, last season’s Big Ten The Spartans never got closer player of the year, left with just than eight points in the second under 11 minutes to play when half, using an early 9-2 run he came down awkwardly on before Lucas went out. the foot of Wisconsin’s Keaton Michigan State tried to push the Nankivil and injured his ankle. tempo early despite winning the 
Lucas, averaging 16 points first meeting 54-47 on Jan. 6. per game, did not return, fin-Wisconsin, which came in ishing with seven points to snap averaging 9.4 turnovers a a string of 33 consecutive game, the fewest in the nation, 

games in double figures. 
Wisconsin clicked from the beginning, getting big contribu­tions from Nankivil and Rob Wilson. Taylor started by scor­ing 10 of Wisconsin’s first 13 points and later helped seal it with a 3-pointer to push the lead to 58-42 with 6 minutes to play. 
committed five because the Badgers stuck to their defensive pressure and methodical pace on offense even after Hughes picked up two early fouls. 
With Hughes off the court and second-leading scorer Jon Leuer still out indefinitely after breaking his wrist, the Badgers didn’t miss a step. 

Wednesday, February 3, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Lytle 
continued from page 24 
two numbers that may go up in the championship season in the coming months. In addition to individual suc­cess, Welsh notes Lytle’s developed ability to lead his Championships, where Welsh said he expects great things from his star senior. 
“We want him to go faster,” Welsh said. “We’d love for him to represent us at the NCAAs and we know that’s in his mind as well.” 
Regardless of how he per­forms in the NCAA Championships, Lytle will 

teammates. 
“He’s cer ­tainly evolved as a competi­tive leader, ” Welsh said. “Away from the race, he leads by example. He’s acquired more 
of a voice as 
“He’s certainly evolved as a competitive leader.” 
Tim Welsh Irish coach 
he’s gotten older. When a guy achieves such success he has a lot of credibility.” 
Despite all his past suc­cess, Lytle is still looking to accomplish more this sea­son. Lytle and his team ­mates remain focused on the Big East and NCAA have a lot to look forward to after the season due to his hard work in the class ­room, as he will begin a job at KPMG in Chicago. Swimming, however, will 
always be a part of his life. 
“There’s no NFL for swim­ming, ” Welsh said. “But John’s the kind of guy who will always stay in shape, that’s for sure.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

Stephanie Menio, director of in a jersey without a name on women’s basketball opera-it. tions, as a freshman. Within “Well I thought I was her first few weeks she dreaming first of all, and I received and accepted an invi-still couldn’t believe that it tation to join the “Sixth Man happened,” Christiansen said. Team,” the women’s practice “Just to make it through the squad, as the only female first two years, not being part member. of the team, wanting to so 
“My first day of practice I bad, and finally it’s the luck of 
w as  so  ne rv - the draw coach  
o  u  s  ,  ”  calls  on  me  to  
C h r i s t i a n s e n said. “To be on the court play­ “I thought I was dreaming frst of all,  be the walk on a n d hel p t he t e am o u t. I  
ing with a team  and I still couldn’t  nev e r  wo ul d  
t ha t y ou ’v e alw a ys f ol -lowed, with a  believe that it happened.”  have expected t ha t , I nev e r w o uld h a ve  
c oa c h  t h a t  guessed it.”  
you’ve always known, this is  Alena Christiansen Irish senior forward  The chances Christiansen’s  

Alena 
continued from page 24 
was so last minute, but to hear the crowd cheer my name, it was surreal,” Christiansen said. “I was super nervous, I didn’t know any of the plays, but just to know that the crowd is behind you and everyone wanted you to do the best. That was awe­some.” 
Earning all-state honors in the state of Florida, Christiansen was recruited to play basketball for several colleges along the east coast, but was never given an offer to suit up for the Irish. Although her dream of coming to Notre Dame seemed to put basketball out of the question, she says she never lost her passion to play. 
“It sounds a little corny, but this is a lifelong dream of mine,” Christiansen said. “I wanted to go to Notre Dame ever since I was really little, and I wanted to play basket­ball, and I wasn’t going to give up one of those. I wasn’t going to go to another school and play basketball because I did-n’t want to. I wanted to come here and do that.” 
Christian’s transition from Bookstore Basketball to the Big East began in a cubicle, working as an assistant to crazy. Practice is tough. I mean they always beat up on you because you’re a practice player, but it was just awe­some to say that you’re a part of that.” 
After an NCAA regulation prevented Christiansen from rejoining the practice squad in 2008, her journey seemed to be cut short. But when juniors Brittany Mallory and Devereaux Peters suffered ACL injuries, the stars realigned. Irish coach Muffet McGraw asked Christiansen to push back her flight during Christmas break, and a few days later she was suiting up story becomes 
immortalized 
in a movie are slim, but McGraw said she has embraced her role as a valu­able member of this year’s team. 
“Every minute that she’s at practice, she just wants to be a part of the team and help in any way that she can,” McGraw said. “She’s found a great role for herself. She’s the first one off the bench cheer­ing, giving everyone a pat on the back and encouragement if they’re not playing well. They love her as a teammate.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 12 BYU takes care of TCU 
Associated Press 
Jimmer Fredette scored 26 points and Jackson Emery had 12 points and six assists as No. 12 BYU beat TCU 76-56 on Tuesday night. 
BYU (22-2, 7-1 Mountain West) scored the game’s first 10 points and held a double-digit lead for most of the game while remain­ing unbeaten against TCU since the Horned Frogs joined the con­ference. 
Noah Hartsock added 14 points and Chris Miles pulled down 11 rebounds for the Cougars, who have won 17 of 18. 
Greg Hill and Garlon Green led TCU (10-13, 2-6) with 11 points apiece. 
TCU is 0-10 against BYU in Mountain West regular season and tournament games. 
The Frogs finished 21 of 60 from the field and made just 3 of 16 3-pointers. They also hurt themselves with several layups that bounced off the rim and into the hands of the Cougars, who outrebounded TCU 45-36. 
After Saturday’s frenzied win over in-state rival Utah, there was little drama in the Marriott Center on Tuesday. The arena was barely half-full and notice­ably more quiet, but the smaller crowd didn’t seem to discourage the Cougars as they closed the game on a 17-6 run. 
BYU held TCU scoreless for the first 4:21 and opened the game with a 15-4 run, including three 3-pointers by Emery. 
The Horned Frogs scored five straight points to open the sec­ond half and get within 35-26, but the Cougars answered with a 10-2 run. Fredette’s 3-pointer with about 13:30 left gave BYU a 45-28 lead and the Frogs didn’t help themselves inside, continu­ing to have layups bounce off the rim. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 3, 2010 

Questions 
continued from page 24 
all indications are affirmative so far. 
Coaching transition always leads to miniature crises in recruiting, and this one was no different. The Irish lost some very talented players they could badly use, for the most part recruits that had committed in large part due to relationships built with former coach Charlie Weis and his staff. 
But despite those losses, today Brian Kelly will sign the most talented group of his career. The effort and success Kelly and his new staff have shown in such a short time frame have been incredibly encouraging signs, and despite everything — particularly a regime change and 16-21 record the past three seasons 
— it looks like Notre Dame will again have a top-20 class. 
Kelly has been able to fill out this class with recruits that never had a Notre Dame offer from Weis, but nonetheless show considerable promise. To be able to sign players like four-star athlete Danny Spond 
Relax 
continued from page 24 
to come, but in all of reality, no expert or analyst or college columnist has any idea if they will make or break or have no effect whatsoever. 
In all of reality, the biggest thing we will learn for certain from today’s results is how well Brian Kelly and his assistant coaches are able to impress high schoolers and their par­ents on short notice. Will they need to impress on short notice again while at Notre Dame? I don’t see how that’d be possi­ble, so even that little piece of knowledge we’ll gain today will be arcane. 
A year from now, Kelly will pull in a recruiting class, hope­fully a good one, and that class will show what he can do throughout a normal recruiting cycle. That will be of impor­tance. 
As will Kelly’s success with the players on a day-to-day basis 11 months a year. It will be then that a National Championship-contending team and Army All-American Austin Collinsworth in just two months of work certainly makes me hopeful at the class­es that Kelly will sign with more than a year of recruiting work. 
The myth that Kelly and his staff can’t recruit on a nation­al scale is quickly being dis­proved, as is the theory they can’t sign elite recruits. Today four elite, four-or five-star players — offensive linemen Seantrel Henderson and Matt James, defensive end Ego Ferguson and linebacker Christian Jones — could decide to sign a letter of intent to play for the Irish. 
Maybe most encouraging is that early on Kelly seems to have all the fundamentals that make for a great recruiter. The effort and commitment is certainly there, and it appears Kelly has been successful building relationships both over long and short time peri­ods with these high school players. 
One of the players he’s recruited the longest, quarter­back Luke Massa, switched his commitment from Cincinnati back to Kelly again this past weekend, and Notre Dame looks to be the favorite to sign 
will either be made, or broken. 
In the meantime, we dissect each recruit, his short list of schools and the weather on his most recent recruiting visits. 
Personally, my favorite part of today will be the shenanigans. In front of national television audiences, recruits will sit down at a table with two or three hats in front of them. Take James for example: it is widely believed his top two schools are Notre Dame and Ohio State. A hat from each school will be on the table, and James will reach for the one bearing a red ‘O’ only to pull back at the last second and grab the hat sporting a pugilist leprechaun. At least I hope the hat he dons is for the blue-and­gold. His well-executed fake-out will momentarily break the hearts of Irish fans, and then punch Buckeyes fans in the stomach. 
Not that such a little dupe is how ridiculous this day can get. 
Two years ago Kevin Hart, a Nevada high schooler, chose to accept a scholarship offer from Cal rather than Oregon in front of his entire high school and local television coverage. 
his high school teammate James today. 
Of all Weis’ faults and mis­takes, recruiting was never one of them. In consistently signing top classes Weis dis­pelled the legend that Notre Dame no longer appealed to recruits in a new era, and that academics would prevent the Irish from reaching the talent levels of its biggest rivals. 
While Notre Dame has obstacles in recruiting other schools don’t have to deal with, its biggest hurdles in recent years have been on the field. For all the things schools like USC can offer like early playing time, weather, women and money, if Notre Dame can start winning again, the recruits will come. 
Early on it looks like Kelly is beginning to prove he knows how to recruit and work a liv­ing room. If he can continue his history success on the field, he should have Notre Dame back near the top of the recruiting rankings in no time. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Unfortunately for Hart, neither Car nor Oregon had recruited him, let alone offered him a scholarship. 
Hart was only able to con­vince his entire hometown of such because of the ungodly media event that National Signing Day has become. 
So sports fans, please, realize that today is not a big enough deal to watch live. Realize that today is not actually going to determine how many titles your team will win over the next four years. And realize the stars of the day are only 18 years old. Each and every one of them will change physically and emotion­ally before starting a college football game. 
Don’t get me wrong, I’ll get online tomorrow evening and check the final listing of Notre Dame signings, and either get excited or nervous for the future. I’m dreaming I read of both Henderson and James. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Preview 
continued from page 24 
pounds (Frederick, Md./ Hargrave Military Academy) 
• 
Five-star offensive tackle Seantrel Henderson, 6-8, 300 (St. Paul, Minn/Cretin-Derham) 

• 
Four-star offensive tack­le Matt James, 6-7, 285 (Cincinnati, Ohio/St. Xavier) 

• 
Four-star linebacker Christian Jones, 6-4, 215 (Oviedo, Fla./Lake Howell) 

• 
Three-star defensive end Kona Schwenke, 6-4, 217 (Kahuku, Hawaii/Kahuku) 

• 
Safety Jeremy Ioane, 5­11, 190 (Honolulu, Hawaii/ Punahou) 


Current verbals 
The following players are verbally committed to Kelly and the Irish. It would be a major upset if any of the 16 withdrew their pledge and didn’t sign a letter of intent to play for Notre Dame, Frank said. 
“Stranger “I don’t anticipate things have anybody [not signing]. Early 
happ ened, enrollees 
Usually if I think
and lord Though the knows we’ve somebody’s wavering I following five 
seen it many have a fairly good early years in a enrollees have 
feeling for it.” 
row,” Frank been on cam-said. “But I pus since the don’t antici-Mike Frank start of the 
pate anybody Irish recruiting analyst spring semes­
[not signing]. Usually if I think some­body’s wavering I have a fair­ly good feeling for it.” 
• 
Four-star quarterback Andrew Hendrix, 6-2, 215 (Cincinnati, Ohio/Moeller) 

• 
Four-star defensive tack­le Louis Nix, 6-3, 315 (Jacksonville, Fla./Raines) 

• 
Three-star wide receiver Bennett Jackson, 6-1, 175 (Hazlet, N.J./Raritan) 

• 
Three-star offensive tackle Christian Lombard, 6­5, 290 (Palatine, Ill./Fremd) 

• 
Three-star linebacker Kendall Moore, 6-3, 230 (Raleigh, N.C./Southeast Raleigh) 

• 
Three-star offensive tackle Tate Nichols, 6-7, 270 (Union, Ky./Ryle) 

• 
Three-star running back Cameron Roberson, 6-1, 215 (Newbury Park, Calif./Newbury Park) 

• 
Three-star linebacker Prince Shembo, 6-2, 236 (Charlotte, N.C./Ardrey Kell) 

• 
Three-star wide receiver Daniel Smith, 6-4, 205 (South Bend, Ind./Clay) 


• 
Three-star athlete Danny Spond, 6-2, 221 (Littleton, Colo./Columbine) 

• 
Three-star defensive lineman Justin Utupo, 6-2, 245 (Lakewood, Calif./Lakewood) 

• 
Three-star tight end Alex Welch, 6-5, 225 (Cincinnati, Ohio/Elder) 

• 
Two-star wide receiver/ safety Austin Collinsworth, 6­2, 184 (Fort Thomas, Ky./Highlands) 

• 
Two-star quarterback Luke Massa, 6-4, 205 (Cincinnati, Ohio/St. Xavier) 

• 
Two-star H-back/athlete Derek Roback, 6-3, 221 (Waverly, Ohio/Waverly) 

• 
Defensive end Bruce Heggie, 6-6, 240 (Mount Dora, Fla./Mount Dora) 


u• Note: Nichols, Spond, Collinsworth, Massa, Roback and Heggie all accepted offers from Kelly at Notre Dame and were not heavily recruited by the previous staff. Nix was recruited by Weis and verbally committed 
after his firing but before Kelly’s hiring. 
te r, 
Wednesday 
marks the first day Kelly will have the opportunity to speak about them with the media, along­side their fellow 2010 class­mates. 
“They’re signed, they’re in,” Frank said. “Coach Kelly will talk about them because it’ll be the first time he has the chance to, and I’m sure there will be a lot of of ques­tions about how they’re doing.” 
• 
Four-star wide receiver Tai-ler Jones, 6-0, 175 (Gainesville, Ga./Gainesville) 

• 
Three-star safety Chris Badger, 6-1, 184 (Provo, Utah/Timpview) 

• 
Three-star cornerback Spencer Boyd, 5-10, 175 (Cape Coral, Fla./Cape Coral) 

• 
Three-star quarterback Tommy Rees, 6-3, 190 (Lake Forest, Ill./Lake Forest) 

• 
Three-star cornerback Lo Wood, 5-11, 165 (Apopka, Fla./Apopka) 


Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  
50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  
66  67  68  

Wednesday, February 3, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
J I  V E  C A G E Y  R E B  
E B O N  A B O V E  M E R E  
R O L L E D O V E R  A T  I  T  
K S U  L E D  S T A T S  
M I  S T E R N  I  C E G U Y  
A L E V E  P E D R O  
R O T O  A U S S  I  E  F O P  
L O W R E N T  T O W L  I N E  
O N O  I  C  I  E S T  O X E N  
A N O L D  B L E S S  
B R A V E N E W W O R L D  
I O W A N  I  C  I  C U R  
R A M S  A N O T H E R O N E  
D R A T  D E N T E  A S T  I  
S S N  S A T Y R  E T O N  

53Company with the stock ticker symbol HOG 
60Many diva performances 
61Amtrak debut of 11/17/2000 
62 Ophthalmologist’s concern 
63Cartel led by a secretary general 
64Former Fox series set in Newport Beach 
65Art Deco architect William Van ___ 
66Part of a Zippo 
67Competitor of 39­Across 
68See 15-Across 
Down 
1 DNAcollector, perhaps 2 Oscar winner Kedrova 3 Chutzpah 4 Wiest of “Radio Days” 5 Bonny gal 6 Dept. of Labor 
division 7 Printer’s color 8 Elephant rider’s 
seat 9 Many a Muslim 10Queen in events 
of 1492 
11 Rough up 
12Highway toll unit 
13Struck (out) 
21Seemingly forever 
22Jazz singer who took her surname from pig Latin 
25Pac-Man enemy 
26Image on eco­friendly products 
27Try to prove 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Adam Cohen  
28 Time off from l’école 29 Grammy winner ___ Khan  40 Michael Phelpsworkout unit 43 Word on a business card  53 Pueblo language 54 Actor Guinness 55 Hinds, e.g.  
31 Item used with high frequency? 32 Competitor ofAquafina 33 Rips to pieces 36 Vidal’s “___ Breckinridge” 38 Often-bawdy verse  45 Ventura County’s ___ Valley 48 Freudian topic 49 “He who hesitates is lost,” e.g. 51 Colleague ofByron andShelley  56 Zillions 57 Explorer Cabezade ___ 58 ___ and terminer 59 Endangered state bird 60 Barnyard mother  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 
1 Iditarod vehicle 5 Tay and Lomond 10Film format sometimes in 3­D 14Internet cafe offering 15With 68-Across, “Carry on” 16___-Coburg-Gotha (old British royal house) 17Letter preceding bravo 
18Wallace ___ of “Manhattan” 19January 1 title 
word 
20Company with the stock ticker symbol BKS 
23Strawberry Fields pilgrimage figure 
24Page, for example 
25Company with the stock ticker symbol DNA 
30Tree sacred to the Druids 
34Panama, for one 
35Green of “Radio Days” 
361973 Paul McCartney & Wings hit 
37Russian city on the Oka 
39Company with the stock ticker symbol ZZ 
41Feudin’with 
42Unyielding 
44Syrup brand 
46Stash of cash 
47Herb with antiseptic properties 
48Company with the stock ticker symbol PZZA 
50Order whose members have included five 
U.S. presidents 
52Rubina ___ of “Slumdog Millionaire” 
JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Wednesday, February 3, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Securing the future 
Early returns point to future recruiting wins 
It was one of the few rea­sonable questions surround­ing Brian Kelly when he arrived in South Bend. 
There was no arguing his winning record and champi­onship histo­ry, and no doubting his ability to develop and motivate players. One 

Michael Bryan 
of the only question marks was Associate this: Can he Sports Editor recruit at Notre Dame? 
While the final verdict shouldn’t be known until at least a year from today, when Kelly signs his first full class, 
see QUESTIONS/page 22 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
National Signing Day not worth the hoopla 
I can match anyone in an argument about the worth of nearly any sporting occasion. I have a lot of practice, as my brother denounces sports as a whole at least twice every holi­day. But National Signing Day is one event that I can­not defend, nor do I feel 

Douglas Farmer 
it warrants an ounce of anyone’s 
Sports Writer
attention. 
I realize that landing recruits like top-rated offensive linemen Seantrel Henderson and Matt James could make or break a football program in the years 
see RELAX/page 22 
Kelly, staff could get pleasant surprises from top prospects 
UND.com. backer Manti Te’o in a Signing Dame remained in contention be a victory,” Frank said. 
By MATT GAMBER 
Heading into Wednesday, the Day shocker last year, and the for four four-or five-star “You’ve got to hope you can 
Sports Editor 
Irish class stood at 21: five Irish could be in position to prospects who initially held land one of James or 
early enrollees, who are cur-pull a similar coup with a few offers and showed interest Henderson. James is the most 
National Signing Day marks rently on campus and working players this year as well. when Weis was still at Notre likely at this point, but it’s the end of one hectic period out with the team, and 16 ver-Included below is a quick Dame. Defensive end J.R. going to be close, real close. I and the beginning of another bal commits set to officially breakdown of those players, Ferguson, offensive tackles could see it going other way. for coaches, recruits and fans sign National Letters of Intent along with Notre Dame’s verbal Seantrel Henderson and Matt “What hurts is he’s met everywhere who, for the most today. Those 16 verbals will commits and early enrollees. James, and linebacker [offensive line coach Ed] part, will be glad to set the not officially become commit-Player ratings and other infor-Christian Jones all included the Warinner and knows him, but 2010 recruiting class in stone ted to Notre Dame until those mation was gathered from Irish among their finalists. when you have a whole year or — or, more appropriately, in letters are signed, but all 16 ESPN’s Scouts, Inc., with analy-Two other prospects — safety longer with Ohio State to get to ink. are expected to do. sis of Irish recruiting expert Jeremy Ioane and defensive know some people, that makes 
Brian Kelly will reveal his Additionally, Irish fans are Mike Frank. Frank runs the end Kona Schwenke — only it hard [for Notre Dame] to first recruiting haul as Irish hoping Kelly’s staff can secure ESPN-affiliated Notre Dame recently picked up Irish offers overcome.” coach at 4 p.m. today in the commitments from a few of the Web site irishsportsdaily.com. from Kelly, and after visiting • Four-star defensive end Guglielmino Complex top prospects still considering campus this past weekend J.R. Ferguson, 6-foot-4, 255 Auditorium in a press confer-Notre Dame. Former coach Still in the hunt could commit to Notre Dame. ence set to be broadcast live on Charlie Weis reeled in line-Entering Wednesday, Notre “I think getting three would see PREVIEW/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Christiansen earns expanded role 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The familiar cheer erupt­ing from the stands of Purcell Pavilion during the fourth quarter of an Irish victory usually means one 
of two things — either freshman guard Skylar Diggins just hit another jumper from behind the arc, or senior guard Alena Christiansen is walking to the scorer’s table. 
The roar of the crowd has become the calling card for Christiansen, the team’s only walk-on. A fan favorite, Christiansen’s impromptu promotion from the practice squad to varsi­ty last season was not lost upon the Irish spectators. 
“I didn’t think anybody knew my name because it 
see ALENA/page 21 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Walk-on senior forward Alena Christiansen, center, worked her way onto the Irish varsity team from the practice squad. 
MEN’S SWIMMING 
Coach praises Lytle as ‘elite of the elite’ 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
If Irish head coach Tim Welsh were to build a Hall of Fame for Notre Dame swim­ming, he would likely start with current senior John Lytle. 
“All you need to know is he’s the fastest we’ve ever had in the 50 free, 100 free, 200 free, 200 free relay, 400 free relay, 800 free relay and the 400 medley relay,” Welsh said. “He is one of the elite of the elite that Notre Dame has ever had.” 
As his fourth and final sea­son swimming for the Irish comes to a close, those around Lytle can just now start to look back at a remarkable career both in and out of the pool. 
“His career’s been fabulous, and everything you see on paper he’s earned,” Welsh said. “He’s in the Academic Honors Program for athletes and he’s got the highest GPA of any of our seniors. Since he first came in as a fresh­man he’s been conscientious, thorough and reliable. He always tries to do the right thing.” 
Lytle’s accomplishments back up his coach’s glowing words. In addition to holding a handful of school records, Lytle has also dominated in the Big East, holding a pro-gram-best four Big East titles and 16 All-Big East Honors, 
see LYTLE/page 21 





