the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘Modernities’ begins in New York 
Jenkins, others speak on project’s significance 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
NEW YORK — Notre Dame holds countless lectures and panels, but it is not customary for University President Fr. John Jenkins to speak at each event. 
Last week’s launch of the Contending Modernities research initiative was different. 
Jenkins, who stood behind a podium in clerical clothing, delivered the opening remarks. Next to him, the Grand Mufti of Egypt channeled in via Skype, donning a white turban and sit­ting in front of bookcases filled with Arabic texts. 
The contrast between these two leaders’ attire, and the medium they used to communi­cate with the audience, embod­ied everything Contending Modernities hoped to accomplish 
— to cross barriers between Muslims and Catholics in the context of a modern world. 
Their remarks launched what is to be a several year research and public education project. This initial phase focuses on the relationship between Catholicism, Islam and secular­ism. 
“This initiative builds on the simple strength of Notre Dame 
— a great research university and a religious mission,” Jenkins told The Observer. “That puts Notre Dame at the heart of some of the most important issues in the world today.” 
Contending Modernities kicked off Thursday and Friday at the 
see JENKINS/page 4 



PAT COVENEY/The Observer Ibrahim Negm, special advisor to Ali Gomaa, the Grand Mufti of Egypt, delivers Gomaa’s speech Friday in New York City. 



Attendees reflect on intiative’s launch 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
NEW YORK — After spend­ing the spring and summer of 2010 in Cairo studying abroad and interning at an Egyptian business, Notre Dame senior Shannon Coyne is writing a senior thesis about gender balance in Egypt. 
Given her field of study, Coyne said being in New York City for launch of Notre Dame’s research initiative, “Contending Modernities: Catholic, Muslim, secular,” was a meaningful experi­ence. Her thesis includes her experience and observations living as an independent, 



ND leaves Army seeing green 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s 27-3 win over Army was the first football game to be played in the new Yankee Stadium and the first time the Irish have visited New York City in 41 years. Back home in South Bend, students couldn’t be happi­er with the outcome. 
“I though the game was absolutely amazing,” freshman Vincent Lynch said. “It looks like Kelly’s finally lit a fire under the team. ” 
Some students said they were impressed with how both the defense and the offense played Saturday. 
“The fact that we’ve held two opponents to six points two weeks in a row is awesome,” Lynch said. 
Sophomore Josh Underhill said he was impressed with freshman quarterback Tommy Rees’ per­formance. Rees completed 13 passes for 214 yards and one touchdown in his second career start. 
Even though football was the main attraction, some students said they found Notre Dame did-n’t just dominate in Yankee Stadium — they took over the whole city. 
Junior Julia Cancro, a New York native, headed home with friends to watch the game. 
“It was great to tour the city with my friends.” Cancro said. “It was nice to see the city transform into one big ND event.” 
While the environment was dif­ferent because the game was held in a baseball stadium and a big city, Cancro said the game felt the same. 
see GAME/page 4 
western woman in Egypt. 
“So it’s a really great opportunity, kind of a cap­stone for everything I’ve been working on,” Coyne said. “My [thesis] topic is right in line with everything that we’re discussing this weekend.” 
Coyne, a political science and Arabic double major with a minor in Peace Studies, was one of two Notre Dame undergraduate stu­dents at Thursday and Friday’s opening events for Contending Modernities. An international research initia­tive, the project explores the relationship between Catholicism, Islam and secu­larism in a modern society. 
see ATTENDEES/page 5 


SMC, ND release statements on death 
Observer Staff Report 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s released statements Sunday in reaction to a Chicago Tribune story about the circumstances surround­ing the Sept. 10 death of first year Saint Mary’s student Elizabeth “Lizzy” Seeberg. 
The Chicago Tribune report­ed in Sunday story that Seeberg told Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) she was sexually attacked by a Notre Dame football player Aug. 31. 
Originally from Northbrook, Ill., Seeberg died at Memorial Hospital in South Bend on Sept. 10. She was 19 years old and a resident of McCandless Hall. 
In a Sunday statement, Saint Mary’s director of media rela­tions Gwen O’Brien directly referenced the Chicago Tribune story and said the College would not comment on the circumstances surround­ing Seeberg’s death. 
“Saint Mary’s College does not comment on matters that may infringe on the privacy of our current or former stu­dents,” O’Brien said. “We are also respecting the privacy of the Seeberg family.” 
The statement listed a num­ber of educational and sup­port services provided to all Saint Mary’s students regard­ing sexual assault, including sessions during the first two 
see STATEMENT/page 4 


DAN JACOBS/The Observer Lights illuminate Yankee Stadium, repurposed for the football game against Army Saturday. Notre Dame won 27-3. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students celebrate Solidarity Sunday page 3  Harry Potter review page 9  Women’s soccer advances to quarterfinals page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Monday, November 22, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Joe Wirth Sam Stryker Matthew Robison Nicole Toczauer Chris Massoud 
Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Maija Gustin 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Ren Brauweiler 
Question: What is your favorite Disney princess? Ryan: Jasmine, because Aladdin is my favorite movie. 
Q: 
If your friends had to describe you in one word, what would they choose? Ryan: Echo, because I repeat everything they say. 

Q: 
What actor would play you in the movie of your life? Ryan: Kiefer Sutherland from 24. 


Q: 
You’re trapped on a deserted island. What are you thinking? Ryan: Where’s the Skipper? 

Q: 
If you invented a soft beverage, what would you call it? Ryan: There are so many good ones out there, but I’d go with Zingo! 




Ryan Loos 
sophomore O’Neill 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer Leprechaun David Zimmer performs stunts with the Notre Dame cheerleading squad in Times Square in New York City. The squad was performing prior to the Times Square concert performed by the Notre Dame Marching Band on Friday afternoon. 
OFFBEAT 

New Jersey pilot drops toilet paper over high school 
WESTWOOD, N.J. — The Federal Aviation Administration won’t take any action against a New Jersey pilot who tossed rolls of toilet paper from a small plane onto an athlet­ic field as a test run for a streamer drop at an upcoming high school foot­ball game. 
FAA spokesman Jim Peters told The Record of Woodland Park Friday that the agency investigated but found no grounds for fur­ther action against pilot Warren Saunders of Westwood. 
Saunders still faces a state criminal charge. 
Police said Saunders cir-
Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
At 4:30 p.m. today, archi­tectural historian Joseph Rykwert will present “Body, City, World: Reflections on a Metaphore” in Room 104 of Bond Hall . This lecture is free and open to the public. 
The Coffee House of Geddes Hall will host an information session on Community-Based Research Programs. Students interested in research related to the humanities and social sciences are encouraged to join representatives from the Center for Social Concerns at 6 p.m. tonight. Pizza and drinks will be served. 
Notre Dame faces Maine in men’s basketball tonight in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center at 7:30 p.m. Tickets costs range between $15 and $40. For more infor­mation, contact the athletics department. 
Evelyne Huber (Ph.D., Yale University) and John D. Stephens (Ph.D., Yale University) will present “Iberia and the Advanced Latin American Social Policy Regimes: Explaining the Different Trajectories” tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. This lecture, held in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center, is free and open to the public. 
On Thursday, there will be a Thanksgiving Day Mass held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 10 a.m. This will be followed by a Thanksgiving Dinner in North Dining Hall from 12 to 3 p.m. There is no 11:45 a.m. 
or 5:15 p.m. Mass this Thursday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

THURSDAY FRIday 

cled the Westwood Middle School athletic fields in his Cessna 172 on the evening of Oct. 13 and dropped two rolls of toilet paper. People at a nearby soccer practice called police. 
Saunders’ lawyer, Scott Berkoben, was out of his office and unavailable for comment Friday. 
Camoflauged dancers scare drivers in Lincoln Tunnel 
WEEHAWKEN, N.J. — A dance troupe from Florida caused a rush-hour terror scare when they ditched their cars in the Lincoln Tunnel and tried to run to a TV appearance in Manhattan while wearing their camouflage costumes. 
The dancers drove about 1,000 miles so they could appear Wednesday on BET’s live “106 & Park” show. But they hit traffic at the tunnel, which connects New Jersey and New York City and is just two miles from the TV studio. 
The five young women and three young men decided to sprint the rest of the way. They left their adult chaperones behind and ran through the toll plaza. 
Armed officers with Port Authority police and the FBI-NYPD Joint Terrorism Task Force gave chase, closing the tunnel for 45 minutes. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight TUESDAY WEDNESday 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Monday, November 22, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students, staff celebrate Spirit of Inclusion on campus 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
After Sunday’s Masses, stu­dents stood outside the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, handing out white cards with a small rain­bow ribbon attached. 
Printed on the back of these cards is Notre Dame’s Spirit of Inclusion, a statement of equal opportunity and affirmative action adopted by the University in 1997, and reading in part: 
“We prize the uniqueness of all persons as God’s creatures. We welcome all people, regard­less of color, gender, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, social or economic class and nationality, for example, pre­cisely because of Christ’s calling to treat others as we desire to be treated.” 
These cards were distributed as part of Solidarity Sunday, an annual event held by the Core Council each fall semester rec­ognizing the Note Dame commu­nity’s Spirit of Inclusion. The Core Council works to identify the needs of gay, lesbian and bisexual students, and helps to implement educational pro­gramming on gay and lesbian issues. The group consists of eight undergraduate students and four administrators from the Division of Student Affairs. 
Sr. Sue Dunn, O.P., co-chair of Core Council and assistant vice president for Student Affairs, said Solidarity Sunday has been celebrated since 1997 when the Spirit of Inclusion was first writ­ten. 
“We thought this is a wonder­ful way to [acknowledge] the spirit of dignity and the worth of all people, recognizing each per­son as a child of God,” she said. 
Core Council member Brandon Buchanan, a senior, said Solidarity Sunday empha­sizes the importance of always having a spirit of inclusion and making efforts to bridge the gaps between different commu­nities. 
A new addition to the Solidarity Sunday events was a coffee house, which took place Thursday night in Geddes Hall. Students gathered for refresh­ments, speakers and a night of poetry and prayer. 
Buchanan started off the night by leading a moment of silence for Declan Sullivan, followed by a prayer for anyone who has considered or who has commit­ted suicide, or felt that he or she had nowhere to go. 

Air Force selects ND professor for program 
Special to The Observer 
David B. Go, assistant pro­fessor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at Notre Dame, was recently selected by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFSOR) as one of 43 engi­neers and scientists who will participate in the 2011 Young Investigator Program (YIP). 
The program, which is only open to engineers and scien­tists at U.S. research institu­tions who have received a doctoral degree within the last five years, recognizes those who “show exceptional ability and promise for con­ducting basic research.” This year ’s YIP honorees will share approximately $16.5 million for research efforts over the next three years as outlined in their winning pro­posals. 
As in previous years, com­petition for the award was very competitive. The ASFOR received 242 proposals encompassing a broad range 
of areas, including aero ­space, chemical and materi­als sciences, physics and electronics, mathematics, information technologies and life sciences. 
Go, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 2008, is investigating a phenomenon, ion-enhanced field emission, that occurs as discharges and plasmas are shrunk down to the microscale. Discharges have applications ranging from plasma televisions and environmental sensors to bioremediation and nanoma­terial synthesis. However, they can be especially diffi­cult to control, and it is equally difficult to craft their properties. Go is aiming to demonstrate that taking advantage of the unique physics occurring at the microscale could offer unprecedented control of dis­charge and plasma properties so that new discharge devices can be effectively tailored for specific applications. 
His project will provide detailed theoretical model­ing, computational simula­tions, and proof-of-concept experiments, with the research taking place on a number of scales — the atomic, particle and macroscale. Such a compre­hensive approach will pro­duce the most complete understanding of the physics of these microdischarges to date and set the stage for developing these new tech­nologies. 
The co -owner of several patents, Go also is a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Society for Engineering Education, American Society for Mass Spectrometry and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 
He is a Notre Dame gradu­ate, receiving his bachelor’s degree in mechanical engi­neering in 2001, and also holds a master ’s degree (2004) in aerospace engi ­neering from the University of Cincinnati and a doctorate in mechanical engineering (2008) from Purdue University. 
“The first was a prayer for becoming involved in speaking up for the sense of dignity and worth of others, and [Brandon] ended it with a prayer thanking people for their support and recognition; he appealed for people to walk with allies,” Dunn said. 
Poems recited during the cof­fee house included “Imagine” by John Lennon, “As I Walked Out One Evening,” by W.H. Auden, “Year’s End,” by Marilyn Hacker and “Hallucinations,” an origi­nal poem written by Core Council Co-chair Rachel Washington. A common theme of the poems, Dunn said, was being true to yourself. 
Selections from the Spirit of Inclusion were also read out loud periodically throughout the program. 
“I wanted [the coffee house] to be something everyone can go to, both heterosexuals and members of the GLBTQ commu­nity,” Washington, a senior, said. “I wanted the poems to express solidarity of every kind.” 
The Solidarity Sunday events continued Friday when students around campus wore orange “Gay? Fine by me” T-shirts to show their support for the GLBTQ community. 

Dunn said 29 chapels on cam­pus distributed the cards Sunday, and during each Mass, participants said prayers to rec­ognize the Spirit of Inclusion. 
“After the communion in the resident hall masses, there’s a time for announcements. During the announcements each hall has a volunteer that reads a statement about recognizing Solidarity Sunday, that we honor the Spirit of Inclusion, and that we encourage everyone to pick up cards on the way out,” she said. 
In an effort to expand Core Council’s reach, Dunn said, the coalition was formed two years ago. The coalition works in cooperation with the Core Council, consisting of a repre­sentative from student govern­ment and various representa­tives from other student groups. 
“We have various clubs as well as student government that are part of the coalition,” Dunn said. “Coalition members can also include clubs that have some of the same goals that [we do.]” 
Senior Mariah McGrogan is co-chair of the Gender Issues Committee of student govern­ment. Her committee works in conjunction with Core Council to promote events like Solidarity Sunday and StaND Against Hate Week, which is a weeklong series of events sponsored by Core Council in the spring. 
“We’ve been publicizing these events to hall councils and Hall Presidents Council, and Senate has been involved in getting the word out there,” McGrogan said. 
She said a large part of her role as co-chair of the Gender Issues Committee is to help to advertise solidarity. Her commit­tee produced posters this year in support of Solidarity Sunday. 
Dunn said with the help of stu­dent government and the coop­eration of campus clubs, there has been significant growth in the Coalition over the last two years. 
She said she hopes events like Solidarity Sunday will continue to promote respect for others on campus. 
“My hope would be that we could have a consistent ethic or consistent commitment to respectful dialogue, and not just a sense of toleration — of just accepting people and celebrat­ing the differences, whatever they are,” she said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 

SMC hosts Dad’s Weekend 
11 p.m. Students sat around 
By MEGAN LONEY 

talking while having a beer 
News Writer 

with their friends and their 
dads. At one point during the 
Saint Mary’s hosted the event, some students played fathers of the Class of 2010 a game of flip cup with their Friday through Sunday for fathers. the annual Senior Dad’s “We wanted to provide time Weekend, a tradition at Saint for dads and daughters to go Mary’s. to dinner in between regis­
“The purpose of the week-tration and President end is for the senior class to Mooney’s address and the escape from all the finals beer garden,” Lyons said. and papers we have due this “We also provided wine and time of year pop for those and spend a who don’t like weekend with beer or weren’t 
“I always watch the

our dads,” old enough to senior class games with my dad drink.” presid ent at home. It was nice Saturday, the Kelly Lyons class board 
to have a chance to

said. held a game of Lyons, who just relax for the trivia for stu ­has been look-evening and watch it dents and their ing forward to fathers in the 
with him.” 

this weekend Student Center since her Lounge. Trivia soph omore Martha Walter questions cov­year, was senior ered a wide 
excited to plan the weekend’s events with the class board, she said. 
“We chose our particular events because we wanted dads and daughters to have the chance to spend time together and meet their daughter’s friends and their fathers,” Lyons said. “We were really happy with the turn out to all of the events this weekend.” 
The father-daughter week­end began Friday with regis­tration in Madeleva Hall at 
5:30 p.m. followed by College President Carol Ann Mooney’s address to the sen­iors and their dads in Carroll Auditorium. 
The other event of the night was a beer garden in the dining hall from 9 p.m. to range of topics 

including Saint Mary’s history, Notre Dame football, movies, current events and 90’s trivia. 
Trivia teams consisted of three dads and three daugh­ters. 
The highlight event of the weekend for senior Martha Walter was the Notre Dame vs. Army game watch at the College Football Hall of Fame in downtown South Bend Saturday night. 
“I always watch the games with my dad at home,” Walter said, “It was nice to have a chance to just relax for the evening and watch it with him. There was food and a bar, and at halftime we walked around to the Hall of Fame.” 
Lyons also enjoyed the game watch. 
“My most memorable moment for the weekend was watching the Notre Dame game at the Hall of Fame with all my dad, friends and friends’ dads,” Lyons said. “I think the game watch was the most popular event, but we had an overwhelming turnout for all of our events this weekend.” 
The weekend culminated on Sunday with Mass at the Church of Our Lady of Lorreto at 11:15 a.m. 
Walter said she enjoyed the planned events, but said the quality time with her dad was best part of the entire weekend. 
“The events were fun,” Walter said, “but it was awe­some just to hang out and catch up.” 
Sometimes we go a while without talking on the phone or anything because this has been such a busy year, so it was good to just have a chance to talk and enjoy each others company.” 
“Even though I only live about a half hour away, I don’t get a lot of free time to go home,” she said, “so it was fun have a chance to spend some one-on-one time together. My dad loves com­ing to visit and seeing where I have classes and what my life is like here.” 
Lyons said the weekend was successful. 
“I think the weekend went well,” Lyons said. “From those that I spoke with and from my experience everyone had a great time with their dad and enjoyed the opportu­nity to spend time together.” 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 22, 2010 
Game 
continued from page 1 
“Notre Dame fans are Notre Dame fans everywhere they go,” she said. 
Students watching from home could also feel the difference from playing the game here at Notre Dame Stadium or at another col­lege football stadium. 
“It was great to win on such a big stage,” sophomore Mike Nolte said. 
While the football team took center stage, the band also trav­eled to New York City and pre­formed at the game, as well as a pep rally at Lincoln Center and a concert in Time Square. 
“The concert in Times Square was amazing,” sophomore Julie Novak said. “So many people were there, some not even Notre Dame fans. It was just awesome to have all these people cheering for us.” 
Senior Alex Buell said he loved the whole experience and tradi­tion of playing and visiting New York City. 
“Even though it wasn’t the old Yankee Stadium, it was still the tradition and history of the Yankees,” he said. 
The band plays in front of large crowds in South Bend for every home game, but this crowd was especially great, Cancro said. 
“It was a great crowd of people overall. It was one of the few times people in the city would actually talk to each other in the street,” Cancro said. “It was a great sense of camaraderie.” 
Some fans said they worried about the outcome because Irish head coach Brian Kelly announced the team would wear green jerseys, which many feel are bad luck. When the Irish wore green in the 1995 Fiesta Bowl and again in the 1999 Gator Bowl, they lost. 
“It was nice to finally win in green,” Underhill said. 
With two wins in so many weeks and bowl eligibility, Lynch said he is excited for next week’s game against the University of Southern California (USC). 
“I think we have a chance next week, especially with [USC quar­terback Matt] Barkley hurt,” Lynch said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Statement 
continued from page 1 
weeks of school for first year students. 
“At Saint Mary’s College, the safety, security and well-being of our students are our top priorities,” O’Brien said. “We take our responsibility to guide them through their four years at Saint Mary’s very seriously. As an all-women’s college, Saint Mary’s provides our young women with a vari­ety of programs, many of which are required, to prepare them for life in the world today.” 
Notre Dame spokesman Dennis Brown said Sunday the University takes all reports of broken laws and University policy seriously. 
“Notre Dame will never be silent or passive when it comes to the careful, thorough and fair determination of whether or not laws or univer­sity policies have been broken on our campus,” Brown said. “This is an important obliga­tion and one that we take very seriously.” 
Brown said the University does not release information about specific cases involving students. 
“We have a longstanding, effective and consistent process in place that gathers information, eliminates rumors and makes informed, fact-based determinations, all while adhering to university policies and the federal stu­dent privacy laws that restrict us from discussing specific dis­ciplinary cases,” Brown said. 
NDSP is a fully authorized police force and works closely with other local law enforce­ment, Brown said. The University forwards all investi­gations of sexual assault to the St. Joseph County Prosecutor’s Office. 
According to ESPN Chicago, Notre Dame head football coach Brian Kelly said during a Sunday conference call with reporters that the issue is a “University matter.” 

“I’m not going to get into the specifics,” Kelly said. “From my standpoint, as the head football coach, I think it was made clear that the University is going to deal with any mat­ters of this nature. And that for me, one of the reasons why I came to Notre Dame is I have the same standards that our University does. We are in lockstep relative to the stan­dards that we hold here at the University of Notre Dame.” 
In a Sunday e-mail to the Saint Mary’s student body, College President Carol Ann Mooney said the “outpouring of support and concern” in response to the Chicago Tribune story reflected Saint Mary’s sense of community. 
“The outpouring of support and concern by our students, faculty, and staff reinforces what we all know is special about Saint Mary’s, our unique sense of community inspired by our Holy Cross heritage,” she stated. “I realize this story will reawaken painful memo­ries.” 
The e-mail also listed sup­port services for students, including the Women’s Health Center, Campus Ministry, Belles Against Violence Office, Residence Life and Community Standards and Campus Security. 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
Sheraton Hotel in New York City. Notre Dame faculty joined Muslim leaders and religious scholars to deliver a lecture and panel discussion. 
Jenkins said New York was the ideal launching site for the ini­tiative. 
“New York is such a center of communication and activity of all sorts, for the world, not sim­ply for the United States,” he said. “To do it here brings us to the crossroads of ideas and dis­cussions and cultures to start this important initiative.” 
Though the project was planned before the controversy over building a mosque near the World Trade Center site began, the debate made New York an even better fit for the launch, Jenkins said. 
“I think some of the remarks, not all of them, some of them really did show an unhelpful prejudice toward the religious group, to take what a small por­tion of that is doing [and make] it characterize everybody,” he said. “We must find a way to understand different religious traditions.” 
John McGreevy, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, showed how this type of preju­dice has occurred throughout history in Thursday’s lecture. He compared the present struggles of Muslim Americans to that of Catholics in the early 20th cen­tury. 
For example, he said some people made judgments about Catholics’ “unusual clothes.” 
“These complaints are eerily similar to complaints we hear now about contemporary Muslims,” he said. 
Ali Gomaa, the Grand Mufti of Egypt and one of the world’s most recognized Muslim schol­ars, sat in on the conference electronically while his special advisor Ibrahim Negm delivered the speech in person. 
Gomaa considered how mod­ern technology has lead to new cultural and political develop­ments. 
“The challenge is how to ensure that Muslims are partici­pants and partners in the mod­ern world, confronting new real­ities with wisdom and balance, while remaining faithful to our religious traditions,” he said. 
Friday’s panel tackled the issue of women and family in Catholic and Islamic societies. 
Ingrid Mattson, former presi­dent of the Islamic Society of North America, pointed to classi­cal Islamic law to show how tra­ditional rules need to be taken in context and adjusted for a mod­ern world. 
“It’s very protective of women and children. You could say this is paternalistic,” she said. “But if you look at an environment where there is no political secu­rity, where going out beyond the borders of a secure area could mean being abducted or being raped … Now it looks like com­mon sense.” 
She warned against making such laws essential in the mod­ern day world. 
“That’s where we can easily make adjustments, but at the same time say they serve a pur­pose in certain places,” Mattson said. “I think it’s that issue of judgment that you bring.” 
The panel also addressed issues such as birth control, in vitro fertilization and same-sex marriage in the context of Catholicism, Islam and secular­ism. 
While Catholicism generally opposes forms of birth control, Mattson said Islam does not. 
“There were all sorts of vari­eties of birth control in medieval Islam. Birth control was permit­ted and it still is,” Mattson said. “I think that is a very good thing for women, having access to birth control gives them more opportunities and choices in life.” 

The conference took place the same weekend as the football game against Army in New York City and Jenkins said the pairing was an opportunity to draw attention to the University’s aca­demic accomplishments. 
“We have a football game here and to see that brings attention but that’s simply a vehicle to make people aware of the great educational and intellectual endeavors that take place at Notre Dame,” he said. 
Jenkins said the conference’s mission was particularly impor­tant for Catholics, and for Notre Dame as a Catholic University. 
“Unless we’re engaged in dia­logue with other religious tradi­tions, we’re not genuinely Catholic because we’re called to unity with all human beings. We’re called to respect all gen­uine expressions of the faith,” he said. “If we fail to do this, we will be less Catholic.” 
He said the Contending Modernities initiative was a “tremendous opportunity and call” for Notre Dame to provide discussion, debate and inquiry. 
“That’s why I’m excited about this conference,” Jenkins said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Monday, November 22 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Attendees 
continued from page 1 

Junior Elizabeth Andrews, a double major in Arabic and anthropology, also attended the events. She said she enjoyed learning about the research related to these three topic areas. 
“I think it’s a really impor­tant topic in that the subject matter is incredibly politically, socially, economically relevant today, and it’s in a field in which research doesn’t regu­larly present itself,” Andrews said. “So it’s just good for stu­dents to see that there are people exploring these topics just because they are so important.” 

Andrews also said she appre­ciated the opportunity to see scholars work together to present their views on Catholicism, Islam and secu­larism. 
“I was really impressed to see so many scholars together collaborating and referencing one another in their own speeches,” she said. “It was also intimidating to be sitting among all of these people who I had read their work in class.” 
Notre Dame theology profes­sor Fr. Paul Kollman said the speakers at the events comple­mented one another by addressing the three topic areas and their relationship to modernity. 
“I thought the talks [Thursday] got us off to a good start, each in its own way ask­ing us interesting, comparative questions about each of the three traditions broadly con­ceived in the title of the proj­ect,” Kollman said. 
Mahan Mirza, professor of Arabic and Islamic studies at Notre Dame, is a member of Contending Modernities’ steer­ing committee. As one of two Muslim faculty members who work in areas relating to Islam at Notre Dame, Mirza said the project interests him on both a personal and professional level. 
Contending Modernities and its launch in New York demon­strate a combination of “cut­ting edge scholarship” and public debate, Mirza said. 
“These are all very difficult things to do and I think that very institutions are capable of having such multi-pronged, multi-dimensional conversa­tions,” he said. “Notre Dame is answering that call in a way.” 
Coyne said she also found the project’s emphasis on healthy conversation impor­tant. Contending Modernities fits her academic interests, but as a member of the Center for Social Concern’s student advi­sory committee, she works to engage her fellow students in dialogue. 
Earlier this semester, Coyne and the student advisory com­mittee held a student conver­sation about the Islamic Cultural Center near ground zero, which she said was suc­cessful. 
“The discussion at that event was phenomenal,” she said. “And that really showed me how students at [Notre Dame] are interested in these topics and almost kind of starved for ways to talk about them out­side of the classroom. So … [Contending Modernities] is a wonderful opportunity for us to engage with these issues and think about how we can serve to bring these issues back to school with us and work with our peers to talk about these issues.” 
While Contending Modernities combines scholar­ship and public debate on a number of topics, Mirza said its overall meaning involves making the world a better place. Because approximately half of the world’s population is either Muslim or Catholic, he said understanding between these two religious groups is crucial. 
“For me, I can boil it down to trying to help us all get along and trying to understand each other,” Mirza said. “We want to have better lives, as the Grand Mufti [of Egypt Ali Gomaa] said [at the event], for our children and our grandchildren. And that’s what I think this project is all about.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Monday, November 22, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The battle to DART 
Nov. 22. 8:40 a.m. In the min­utes leading up to this moment I will sit poised at my laptop, armed with a list of numbers and ready for battle. I prepare not for the epic fields of ancient Megan Doyle myths but for the late fall New s semester battle 
Production 
of Notre Dame 
Editor 
students — DART. 

As first semester closes and sec­ond semester approaches, every Notre Dame student faces the task of registration for spring classes. We gloated or complained sufficiently about our DART times 
— I flaunted my miraculously early time. I read lists of require­ments for my English major, researched possible professors, analyzed CRNs and formulated backup plans. I discovered class­es inside my English major that intrigued me — Monstrous Mothers in Literature or Writing India — and then sadly discov­ered upperclassmen snagged all open spots before my DART time even opened. Some of us will be resigned to our second choices, and some will earn coveted seats with in highly competitive class­es. I have no idea what the letters in the acronym DART mean. I just know my four minutes of DARTing beginning at 8:40 a.m. will be the most stressful moments of my day. 
After I complete my spring semester classes, I will be halfway done with my time at Notre Dame. That thought is a daunting one. As I build my schedule, I chip away at my grad­uation requirements. I am work­ing towards my degree with every step — and then what? Behind the stress and rush and anticipa­tion of DART, what are we really building when we build our schedules? Our schedules bear weeks of running on the power of caffeine, and we live the grind of papers, tests, labs, problem sets, article assignments and meetings. The pressure builds and builds and builds — and sometimes we forget to breathe. 
When we finally inhale, when we finally take a moment to step outside the daily grind, we realize where we are. These classes are pieces of a degree that will carry us through the rest of our lives. When we bid farewell to Notre Dame, we will receive a diploma bearing the University seal — that gold from the dome. The presence that towered over us for four years remains with us in a very physical, 24-carat sense that will hang on office walls. But these CRNs we frantically enter in the computer as we DART also signs us up for the courses we will remember for years to come. We learn lessons about chemistry, literature, math, accounting, phi­losophy, French grammar and spirituality. More importantly, we learn what we love, what we will fight for. 
So suit up for battle, everyone. Here we go. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Braving the Winter Wonderland 
The coldness has finally arrived and with it, the dynamics on the hal­lowed campus of Notre Dame will begin to change. Different attitudes and different fashions will set in as a clear sign that winter is here. Unfortunately, these are not the most positive attitudes and fashions. But that can all change this year! We can come together as one Kevin Kimberly and begin to lay 

Bursting the 
to rest the win-
Bubble
ter plagues on campus. 

Numero uno — The Ugg boots have got to go. I know the words ‘how dare you’ probably just came out of your mouth because they are so com­fortable, right? I do not care; this makes me think of the glorious say­ing when the Crocs came out: “I don’t care how comfortable Crocs are, you look like a (fill in appropriate word).” And it is true for Uggs as well. They are goofy, overpriced, and usually go with nothing you are actually wear­ing. Functionally, they do no good either because they clear no trails through the snow that I must walk through later in the day, and that is obviously a necessity on this campus. Get a real pair of boots; fabrication is not a style. 
Fashion faux pas number two — North Face jackets are really not that cool. Priced on average at $175, I still have not figured out what is so 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
special about these jackets. They do not keep you any warmer than the next jacket on the rack and they are so cliché. Many of them actually look extremely ridiculous as well (cue the ones that make you look like a pen­guin or the ones that encompass your whole being). I will stick with my sweatshirt, but honestly, I would rather see hundreds of students walking around in Snuggies than these jackets; at least they provide some dynamic. 
Now, for the final fashion tip of the season, I would like to put to shame a commonly thought idea here — that it is okay for the ladies to wear leg­gings but not sweatpants. This could not be any more false. I have no qualms about saying this, but the sweatpants look is definitely in and definitely attractive, and do not pre­tend like you were not thinking the same thing. It is an easy look to pull off and those criticizing it are just part of the few that cannot actually pull it off. Remember, the only reason we came to Notre Dame is to find a husband/wife, so this is my friendly advice to you to help you in your cause. Sweatpants are a positive, not a negative, and I fully encourage and support them. As for those who choose those skintight leggings, I need not say anything more than what the people you pass are saying. 
Winter also brings about a change of heart, if you will, for many. As though there were not enough social interaction issues around here, many of us tend to think that we are like the animals that go into hibernation during the winter. Last time I checked, humans stay functional. It is appropriate to still do things, out­side of jetting from one place to the next. 

The overlying issue here, though, is that we have to be like everyone else and do what everyone else is doing. Nonsense. Du Lac does not require that you wear Uggs and North Face jackets, not that you would follow it if it did. Maybe that is what needs to happen (paging Father Doyle). Nor is winter synonymous with sadness. You can be happy in the midst of cold temperatures and snow; I swear it is okay. Smiles in place of death glares as you walk about the winter won­derland that is coming is okay and actually encouraged; I promise you. Look around when you step outside and you will see just how right I am and will realize how these two brands have taken over our campus. 
But in the midst of the bustle and hustle, I promise you I will be there somewhere, rocking my shorts and flip-flops and jamming out to whatev­er Christmas song my iPod selected. (Side note: Siegfried’s Day of Man has nothing on me.) You will most likely approach me with a deathly look (see above), or a laugh, and regardless, I will be glad you noticed I steered clear of the trend. Did you? 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for president in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A loving person lives in a lovingworld. A hostile person lives in ahostile world. Everyone you meet isyour mirror.” 
Ken Keyes Jr. 
U.S. author 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“From now on, ending a sentencewith a preposition is something upwith which I will not put.” 
Sir Winston Churchill British politician 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, November 22, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Satire alive and well 
It’s been a long time since I’ve read a good bit of satire in a newspaper editorial, so I was quite surprised, not to mention impressed, when I stumbled upon Ryan Williams’ creed about “Evil lurking in Harry Potter” (Nov. 18). In it, Mr. Williams goes on at length about the moral and existential threats present in the famous J.K. Rowling series and accuses the myriad Potter fans on campus of betraying the University’s Christian principles. 
What makes this editorial brilliant, however, is the care with which he wrote it. It’s obvious he’s familiar with most, if not all the baseless accusations against the Potter franchise and its cre­ator, J.K. Rowling, and he manages to address nearly every one in turn, subtly highlighting just why they’re so absurd. 
I have to wonder whether Mr. Williams has read the books, though. It seems he hasn’t, because the editorial reads like it’s from someone who wouldn’t touch them with a 10-foot pole, but I could be wrong. It’s entirely possible he actually has read them and chose to ignore them to make his diatribe all the more con­vincing. 
Whatever the case may be, though, I have to applaud Mr. Williams for his biting take on paranoid fundamentalism and the reactionary absurdity it breeds. 
Kudos, Mr. Williams. I hope to read more of your work soon. 
Pete Reimers 
library staff Nov. 18 
Utah a special game 
As I stood with the rain dripping off the hood of my poncho and looked out across the packed stadium now lit up by lights at the people clapping to the famous Fight Song being played by the band, I felt something in the air I couldn’t describe. Something that took your breath away, brought a tear to your eye and a lump in your throat. Then I realized it was the magic of Notre Dame waking up the echoes, shaking the thunder from the sky and welling up pride in everyone in that stadium. We were win­ning a game that no one thought we had a chance of winning. We were beating a rated team when we had already lost five games. We were kicking “unbelief” — a word coined by “Rocket” Ismail — out of our house. Our guys were playing their hearts out and it showed. 
I never wanted the game to end. There was so much excitement in the air as the stadium roared, cheering the team to victory. There was so much pride as we yelled, “We are ND!” The rain didn’t dampen the crowd’s spirits as no one left when it continued to rain and the cold air came blowing in bringing a damp chill. Even the Utah fans did not leave when the game was too far in our favor for them to win. Maybe they felt it too. Maybe they were seeing the magic of Notre Dame and what it is all about to “be ND” and maybe it captured them and held them in its grip. 
Seeing the students rush the field after the game made me wish I could do it too. I wanted to join in all the celebrating. As I watched the team, the band, the students hugging, singing, laughing, all I could think about was how it was long overdue. We needed this happiness, this good feeling. Sure, it wasn’t a Top 10 team we had just beaten and we hadn’t just won a National Championship, but it was a victory of a different sort. It was a victory that said we finally believed in ourselves and we were finally turning the corner and yes, what though the odds, we could win. 
I wanted to bottle up all the joy and excitement that was on the field and take it home with me. Whenever I would need a lift, I would just uncork that bottle and let it flow. 
As I look forward to the last game, I realize the football season I have waited so long for is almost over and a sadness overcomes me. I will return again in the spring for the Blue/Gold game to get my football fix until the regular season returns once again. I pray God will be as good to me next year as He was this year and will bless me with many chances to see the Fighting Irish in person and the beautiful campus I so love. I take with me, leaving the stadium for the last time this year, the game that was so perfect, the win so needed, the sign of good things to come for our Fighting Irish and the pride of “being ND.” 
Christine Putnam 
Nov. 18 
Carroty woes 
Dear Jim, Kiely and Ayla, 

Stop signing your letters “In Notre Dame.” You’re arguing about carrots. 
Kolin O’Brien 
junior Fisher Hall Nov. 18 
Give me a break ... 
Much like any other Notre Dame student, I am excited for Thanksgiving. The prospect of spending time with my family and eating great food has been what has motivated me for the week or two leading up to the break. I said to myself, “Just make it past this week; then you get to go home and be lazy for a while.” However, as I am presently writing this in my confined dorm room and not my living room at home, I realize that there is a problem. Surely, many will agree with me and rally to my call for a week-long Thanksgiving break. However, I am not going take the traditional argument that has certainly been raised in dining halls and dorms rooms — citing other schools, the uselessness of these two days, or the fact that many pack up and leave early anyways if they don’t have classes that take atten­dance seriously. 
Instead, I implore those that work under the dome to reflect on why a Thanksgiving break exists in the first place. It is a time for students to leave and spend time with their families, but its current structure makes that challenging for those of us not from the Midwest. Instead of leaving the weekend before Thanksgiving, we must wait until Tuesday night or Wednesday morning to leave. These, of course, are the busiest trav­el days of the year, causing expensive tickets and ridiculously busy airports. Both of these factors have caused many Notre Dame stu­dents to decide that they should forgo the trip home and just stay on campus or go to a friend’s house nearby. Doing either of these is completely respectable, but we shouldn’t have to resort to that if we don’t want to. Our administration should not discourage students from going home by forcing us to travel on the busiest days of the year. 

A Notre Dame education comes with a price. Ignoring the financial aspect, for most of us this price is expressed as stress. Please, don’t cause any more by making us travel the day before Thanksgiving. That’s just not cool. 
Sean Baur 
sophomore Morrissey Manor Nov. 21 

The worthy cause 
Ryan, 
I am very impressed with your letter decrying the evils of my dear friend Harry (“Evil lurking in Harry Potter,” Nov. 18). It takes some serious testicular fortitude to stand up to a series of novels depicting a virtuous hero, a lovable ginger and a curly haired, intelligent and sexy coed in a fight against evil. I am especially impressed with your decision to choose this issue as your existential threat to Catholic morality in a world where we, as a nation, are fighting two wars that are all but forgotten by the average citizen, discriminating against gays and Muslims, idolizing Glenn Beck and hold­ing the dollar as the highest standard of success and godliness. Likewise, you have made a swell choice of ‘brave, enlightened leaders’ to show the validity of your cause. 
The Pope, for example, has made the enlightened decision to explain to the world that condoms should not be handed out to battle aids in Africa and has made it quite clear that if you have sex with young chil­dren, the church will stand by you in your moral righteousness, and President Bush, bless his soul, was brave enough to stand up and join the Air National Guard to protect our homeland in a day when his fellow American was enjoying the sun and sand in South Vietnam. He even grew up to further such renowned Christian morals as starting wars and giving more money to the rich. 

With your noble cause chosen and in hand, it is now time to choose your next step. I vote you go out on South Quad and burn every Harry Potter book in sight, as the decision to criticize the moral content of a book, instead of just shutting up and not reading it, usually leads to this practice. You’ll be in good fellowship with Adolf Whatshisname and some preacher from Florida. In fact, why don’t you petition the University to stop teaching things about dinosaurs (fossils are God’s way of testing our faith), any books involving premarital sex (all of them) and anything involving any other religion (they don’t fall in line with my personal beliefs as a Catholic). 
Ryan, thank you for your time and insight. I do realize that you might not take this let­ter seriously as, instead of reading Swift and Moliere on the weekends, I enjoy throwing my hands up in the air and learn­ing how to Dougie. I do, however, feel like I can speak for most of the student body, when I say: Go suck on a wand. 
Daniel Brennan 
senior off campus Nov. 18 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Monday, November 22, 2010 

By MAC HENDRICKSON 
Scene Writer 

For the most part, the pop culture world met Bruce Springsteen in 1984. “Born In the USA” was a heartland smash album (a little more John Cougar than Roy Orbison) that outsold anything he’d done before or would ever do. The radio-friendly work seemed to suggest that Springsteen was just “the next big thing,” not a genius. Anyone who has ever heard the first 30 seconds of “Thunder Road” knows this isn’t the case. 
The fact that Springsteen had done his best work in the years leading up to 1984 is a point of frustration for Springsteen’s avid followers. “Darkness on the Edge of Town,” despite its lack of commercial success against the pop jug­gernaut that was “Born in the USA,” ranks among Springsteen’s best work. 
To commemorate the 30th anniver­sary, in 2005 Springsteen re-released “Born to Run” along with a live DVD and a making-of documentary. Though pale in comparison to the “Darkness” reissue in terms of material, the reissue was a masterpiece itself. Listening to the re­mastered version was like listening to the album for the first time, every track more clear and defined. The first DVD was Springsteen’s magical performance at Hammersmith Odeon Theatre in London, and the second, a documentary about the making of an album with, debatably, the greatest back-story of any album in rock history. 
So how does one overcome the expec­tation set by such an outstanding re-release? How about three CDs, three DVDs and a facsimile of Springsteen’s private notebook? If 10 hours plus does­n’t satisfy however deeply obsessed you are with Springsteen, I doubt anything will. 
Similar to its brother, the reissue con­tains a re-mastered version of the album, two live DVDs and a making-of documentary. The re-mastered album isn’t considerably more illuminated than the original, though there are noticeable improvements, and the making-of docu­mentary isn’t as entertaining as the one on “Born to Run,” though just as well done. 
For “Born to Run,” Springsteen wrote eight songs, recorded eight songs and released eight songs — no outtakes and nothing left behind. “Darkness on the Edge of Town” was a different story. Coming off an emotionally exhausting lawsuit with his former manger over what would eventually become control of his career, Springsteen was broke and permitted from using the studio. 
Trapped in his New Jersey home, Springsteen began writing tunes about the pain and confusion of becoming an adult. By the time he was able to hit the studio once again, Springsteen had writ­ten over 50 songs, which he mixed and matched for his 10 cohesive songs that became “Darkness on the Edge of Town.” The outtakes from these sessions are featured on the second two CDs of the set, entitled “The Promise.” “Outtake” doesn’t seem to be the proper word for these songs, however. They were cut from the album due to lack of thematic relation, not lack of signifi­cance as individual songs. In fact, even the mildest of Bruce fans will find at least a few treasures in the outtakes. 
Despite the awesomeness of the extra material, the best part of the re-release is the attention it forces on the album itself. In contrast to the Spector-esque “Born to Run,” “Darkness” is sparse, open and lonely. The lyrics are the por­trait of a man caught between what he wants to be and what society is forcing him to become. At the climax, he sings, “I’ll be on that hill with everything that I got.” 

The future is uncertain, but he has found where he will stand at the end of it all. The album is more than 10 great songs, more than a journey. It’s nothing less than one of the finest records of all time. 
‘Darkness on the Edge of Town’ Reissue 
Bruce Springsteen Label: Columbia Records Best Tracks: “Badlands,” “Racing in the Street” and “Darkness on the Edge of Town” 

Contact Mac Hendrickson at mhendri1@nd.edu 

GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, November 22, 2010 observer Notre Dame 27, Army 3 
Big win in the Big Apple 
Stifling defense, consistent offense help Irish take down Army at Yankee Stadium 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Nearly a month ago, Notre Dame faced Navy and its triple-option offensive scheme to dis­astrous results at the Meadowlands in New Jersey. 
Against another triple-option Academy in an even more pres­tigious venue Saturday, Notre Dame’s defense led the way to a huge victory. 
The Irish capped a weekend of festivities with a 27-3 win over Army in Yankee Stadium. The biggest celebration may be yet to come, though, as the win, Notre Dame’s second straight, made the Irish (6-5) eligible to be selected for a bowl game. 
“Everyone feels great,” fresh­man quarterback Tommy Rees said. “Two wins now, to be bowl eligible, playing in New York City, Yankee Stadium, coming out with the win.” 
Leading up to the game, Notre Dame virtually took over New York City, with a pep rally in Lincoln Center, a marching band performance in Times Square and even an appear­ance at the NASDAQ MarketSite to ring the stock market’s clos­ing bell. 
“New York’s a lot of things, and what it was tonight was a college football town,” Kelly said. “It was an exciting atmos­phere, and I know that our kids fed off the energy that was here in New York for the past 48 hours.” 
It took a bit of time for the Irish to take over at Yankee Stadium, though. 
Notre Dame opened the game with a 69-yard drive that ended with an interception at its own two-yard line. Army then marched down the field in a 78­yard drive before kicking a field goal. The Black Knights led 3-0 after the first quarter. 
But then, the Irish defense took over. 
In the final three quarters, Notre Dame held Army to 86 yards of offense, two less than the Black Knights had in the first quarter. They allowed the Black Knights a total of 174 yards, far less than the 438 yards Navy gained on Oct. 23. 
“We’re playing fast. We’re playing physical,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We don’t look like a team in November that is not physically stronger, not in better condition.” 
Between this win and Notre Dame’s 28-3 victory over Utah on Nov. 13, the Irish have yet to allow a touchdown in the month of November. The last time Notre Dame held oppo­nents without a touchdown in two straight games was against Rice and Penn State on Nov. 5 and 12, 1988. 


“They know what they’re doing,” Kelly said. “Navy caught us. What’s the analogy there, first time shame on you, second time, shame on me. That would have been the case if we don’t get it done this time.” 
Sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o finished the game with nine tackles. Senior cornerback Darrin Walls and junior defen­sive end Kapron Lewis-Moore each had seven. 
The defense helped with scor­ing points, as well. In the third quarter, Walls intercepted Army quarterback Trent Steelman and ran it back for a 42-yard touchdown return. Senior linebacker Brian Smith intercepted a Steelman pass later in the third quarter and handed it to senior cornerback Gary Gray, who gained 14 yards on a play that led to a 39-yard field goal from senior kicker David Ruffer. 
“Things seem to be clicking,” Rees said. “The defense is play­ing unbelievable. Words can’t really sum up how they’re play­ing.” 
Steelman finished 2-of-7 with 39 yards passing. 
Ruffer also scored Notre Dame’s first points of the game with a 47-yard kick at the beginning of the second quar­ter. 
Rees bounced back from his early interception to pass for 214 yards and a touchdown, going 13-for-20 on the day. 
“As a quarterback you can’t hang your head,” he said. “You have to get back out there and keep playing, because every­one’s relying on you.” 
Sophomore tight end Tyler Eifert led the team with 78 receiving yards, including two big plays from Rees in the sec­ond quarter. Eifert caught a 35­yard pass on the one-yard line, which set up senior Robert Hughes to score Yankee Stadium’s first touchdown with a one-yard run. Minutes later, he grabbed a 31-yard pass in the back of the end zone for a touchdown. 

“It’s something we work on during practice,” Rees said. “Tyler’s a really athletic guy, and certain match-ups favor size and athleticism, and he did a great job with that.” 
Sophomore tailback Cierre Wood led the Irish rushing effort with 88 yards on 14 car­ries. Hughes followed with 40 yards on nine carries. 
The contest was the first col­lege football game to be held in the new Yankee Stadium, which opened in 2009. It was also the 50th meeting between Army and Notre Dame, who played regularly in the old Yankee Stadium in the first half of the 20th century. Notre Dame now leads the series 38-8-4. The Irish wore green jerseys to mark the occasion. 
Kelly interrupted his usual routine to give the players a chance to explore the stadium Friday. 
“Generally, on Friday, my standard routine is to have a pretty brisk walk through, go through a lot of things. We did-n’t do any of that,” Kelly said. 
“We just stood around with our eyes wide open and took pic­tures and Marvelled marveled at the stadium and walked around here.” 
Players relished the experi­ence, junior center Braxton Cave said. 
“It was awesome. Great envi­ronment. People dream of going to Yankee Stadium. To get to come here and play a football game is almost unheard of,” Cave said. “Yesterday, getting to come out here and taking pic­tures, and walking around and looking at the greats who played here, then getting to come out and wear the green jerseys and getting a win. It can’t get any better than that.” 
Prior to the game, players also watched videos on the his­tory of the Army-Notre Dame series. 
“Tradition for Notre Dame is the biggest thing that made me want to come here,” Rees said. “To be a part of it and continue it is a blessing.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Tyler Eifert 98 Tyler Eifert’s 35-yard reception which 
“We didn’t play very well, and we got
Irish tight end set up Notre Dame’s first touchdown. 
clobbered.” 

The Irish defense held Army to 135 Eifert caught 4 balls for a career-high rushing yards, 98 fewer than its Eifert’s diving grab gave the Irish first 
Rich Ellerson 78yards anda 31-yardtouchdown previousseasonlowof235yards andgoalontheone-yardline.The Black Knights coach reception. against Kent St. Irish scored, and never looked back. 



page 2 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 22, 2010 
report card 
B+ A B+ A 
A A 

A+ down, Notre Dame’s first defensive score since 2008. Army only accumulat­ed 39 yards through the air. 
B 
special teams: David Ruffer made his 20th consecutive field goal from 47 yards away, but Notre Dame recorded 
negative punt return yards and aver­
aged only 16 yards per kick return. 
A 
coaching: Once again, Brian Kelly designed an offensive gameplan which put Tommy Rees in good positions all night, and the 
Irish defense learned from past mistakes to stop Army’s triple option. 
overall: There was no letdown coming off of an emotional Senior Day victory as Notre 
3.74 

Dame went into Yankee Stadium and dominated Army. 
adding up the numbers 
Notre Dame has not allowed a touchdown in each of its last two games, something it has not done 
0

since the 1988 national championship season. 
Army recorded only 8 first downs against Notre Dame. 8 Eight is the fewest first downs for an Irish opponent since Maryland in 2002. 
Notre Dame carried the ball 38 times, its most this season. The Irish finished with 155 yards 
38 
on the ground. 

262 Notre Dame gained 262 yards in the first half, its most before the break in any game this season, and its second-highest single-half total. 
Irish receiver Michael Floyd caught three passes against Army, moving him into sole posession of 
3

fifth all-time in receptions at Notre Dame. 
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees was consis­tently accurate, completing 65 percent of his passes. He threw for more than 200 yards and a touchdown, but was also picked off in the end zone. 
running backs: The Irish carried the ball more times than any other game this season. Cierre Wood averaged more than six yards per carry, and Notre Dame amazingly outrushed Army. 
receivers: The Notre Dame receivers did lit­tle wrong, but little spectacular. Roby Toma and Michael Floyd each recorded 63 yards, but no Irish receiver scored a touchdown. 
offensive line: Tommy Rees survived the game without being sacked, and the Irish gained 4.1 yards per carry on the ground. Chalk both of those up as wins for the o-line. 
defensive line: Even without Ian Williams, the Irish defensive line held Army fullback and leading rusher Jared Hassin, who was averaging over six yards per carry, to only 2.9 per rush. 
linebackers: Notre Dame held Army to 135 yards on the ground, 138 yards fewer than its season average going into the game. Manti Te’o led the team in tackles with nine. 
defensive backs: Cornerback Darrin Walls returned an interception for a touch-

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Senior cornerback Gary Gray intercepts a pass in the third quarter of Notre Dame’s win over Army Saturday. The Irish picked off two passes in the game, including one returned for a touchdown by senior Darrin Walls. 
Strong finish a positive for Irish 
There were many positives to take away from Notre Dame’s 27-3 win over Army on Saturday night. The Irish are bowl-eligible with their sixth win, the defense didn’t allow a touchdown for the second straight game, and freshman quar­terback Tommy Rees continued his solid play in place of injured Dayne Crist. Perhaps the most important encouraging sign from this weekend’s vic-

Sam Werner 

tory, though, is the fact that the 
Sports Writer 

Irish look like a noticeably improved foot­ball team from the one that took the field at the beginning of the season. 
The tackling has improved, the offense seems to have found a sense of balance, and the team is playing with an overall confidence that was lacking in September. 
This, ladies and gentlemen, is why Brian Kelly was hired. 
“I’ve always felt that the teams that I’ve coached, we want to be better in November,” Kelly said after the game. “And we’re getting better in November.” 
Irish fans have become all too accustomed to late season failure, with just two wins after the month of October in the past two seasons. Losses to Syracuse and Connecticut on Senior Day in 2008 and 2009, respectively, provided lowlights for the Irish in cold weather. Those winter doldrums are a big part of why Charlie Weis is no longer coaching the Irish. 
Now that Kelly has put an empha­sis on late-season performance — and two thoroughly dominating vic­tories — it looks like the days of stumbling to the finish are behind the Irish. 
The biggest change has been the improvement on defense. It’s not just the solid tackling or sound posi­tioning, but the players actually seem confident in their responsibili­ties on the field. Previously, the Irish seemed tentative and too afraid to make a mistake. Now, they know what they need to do and make plays almost instinctively, especially in the secondary. 
On the offensive side of the ball, Notre Dame has placed a renewed emphasis on its running game. Partially to compensate for Rees’ inexperience, the Irish rushed the ball 29 and 38 times against Utah and Army, respectively. Just because Kelly runs a spread offense doesn’t mean Notre Dame can’t run the football when they need to. Particularly when protecting leads 
— a sore spot for the Irish over the past few seasons — a running game is absolutely essential. Even with senior Armando Allen sidelined for the season, sophomore Cierre Wood has stepped in admirably and taken the bulk of the carries. 
This season has been far from perfect for Notre Dame — the embarrassing blowout loss to Navy and Kelly’s indefensible decision to throw the ball at the end of the game against Tulsa come to mind — but the team is clearly trending upward. After two wins that could only be described as dominating, it’s hard to say the Irish aren’t a team on the rise. 

Now, it’s Kelly’s job to make sure this improvement holds. Many thought the Irish were “back” after blowout wins against Hawaii and Nevada to close 2008 and begin the 2009. Those wins, though, were more based on transcendent per­formances by flashy offensive play­ers. Notre Dame’s victories over Utah and Army were the result of solid fundamentals and belief in the gameplan — themes that have a lot more staying power. 
It also says a great deal that Notre Dame was able to bounce back from a downright dismal performance against one triple-option team in Navy to completely shut down the Black Knights’ attack Saturday. It would have been easy for the team to doubt itself after giving up 367 rushing yards to the Midshipmen. Instead, the team and coaching staff went back to the drawing board and drew up a defensive scheme that Army was unable to solve. 
Not to get too far ahead of our­selves, but the Irish are now pre­sented with a fantastic opportunity. If they can pull off their first win against USC since 2001 and follow up with a victory in the bowl game, that’s a whole lot of momentum heading into 2011. If recent results are any indication, there’s no rea­son to think the Irish won’t continue to improve. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at 
swerner@nd.edu 

15 
Senior kicker David Ruffer made his 15th straight field goal this season, the longest single-season field goal streak in Notre Dame history. 
Freshman quarterback Tommy Rees completed 65 percent of his passes against 
65 

Army, the fourth best mark for an Irish fresh-
With the victory over Army, Notre Dame improves its win total to six, making the Irish bowl eligable. 
Monday, November 22, 2010 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Defense rebounds in November 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer 

Sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o and junior cornerback Robert Blanton look on after a tackle in Notre Dame’s 27-3 win at 
Yankee Stadium Saturday.  
By SAM WERNER  The Black Knights had success on their first drive Saturday night. After  quarter was Notre Dame’s first defen­s i v e s c o r e s i n c e R o b e r t B l a n t o n  
Sports Writer  intercepting Irish quarterback Tommy  returned a pick all the way against  
Rees in the end zone, Army ate up  Purdue in 2008. The defensive scor- 
Before Saturday, the last time the  8:45 of clock with a 17-play, 78-yard  ing drought lasted 31 games.  
Irish went two straight games without  drive that ended in a field goal and a  Lewis-Moore said the defense used  
a l l o w i n g a t o u c h d o w n w a s i n  3-0 lead. Notre Dame defensive end  last week’s win over Utah as a rally- 
November of 1988 against Rice and  Kapron Lewis-Moore said despite the  ing point upon which to build.  
Penn State. Not coincidentally, that  Black Knights’ success, the Irish did­ “I feel like the Utah game gave us a  
w a s a l s o t h e s a m e y e a r o f N o t r e  n’t change their strategy.  lot of momentum coming into this  
Dame’s last national championship.  “We weren’t going to stray from the  game, knowing how good our defense  
After this weekend’s 27-3 win over  defensive gameplan,” Lewis-Moore  can be,” he said.  
Army, the Notre Dame defense has  said. “We just had to communicate  Lewis-Moore said the biggest differ- 
not allowed an offensive touchdown  and talk to the coaches.”  ence wasn’t in gameplans or schemat­ 
in the last 11 quarters of action. Few  Kelly attributed the defensive suc­ ics, but just in an overall improve- 
would have thought the Irish would  cess to Notre Dame’s focus on stop­ ment on the defensive side of the ball.  
be here just a month ago.  p i n g A r m y q u a r t e r b a c k Tr e n t  “ I f eel l i ke w e ’ r e ge t ti ng b e t t e r  
On Oct. 23, the Irish gave up 438  Steelman and fullback Jared Hassin  every game, and that’s our whole  
yards to Navy’s triple-option attack.  from running the ball. Steelman fin- mentality,” he said. “We’ve got to get  
The Midshipmen moved the ball with  ished with just 37 yards on 14 car- better every game. As long as you’re  
ease in their 35-17 win, and Irish  ries, while Hassin had 23 yards on 8  improving from week to week, I think  
defensive coordinator Bob Diaco was  rushes. As a team, the Black Knights  we’re accomplishing our goal.”  
widely criticized after the game for  rushed for 154 yards on 43 attempts,  Lewis-Moore said that even though  
his la ck o f an e ff e c t i ve d e f e n siv e  just 3.1 yards per carry.  the defense is proud of its accom- 
gameplan.  “They want to run the fullbacks,  plishments so far, there is still work  
After Saturday’s win, Irish head  they want to run the quarterbacks,”  to be done.  
coach Brian Kelly defended Diaco.  K e l l y s a i d . “ T h o s e g u y s w e r e no t  “We’ve just got to keep the momen­ 
“I think [this win] just allows us to  going to run the ball today. The ball  tum going and everything,” he said.  
say [the Navy game] was an anom­ was going out on the perimeter, and  “ We ’ v e p l a y e d g o o d t h e p a s t t w o  
aly,” Kelly said. “Listen, we haven’t  we were going to run it down.”  games, but we can’t dwell too much.  
given up a touchdown in the month of  The defense also contributed to the  We’ve got a tough opponent in USC  
November. You don’t do that by acci- Irish scoring effort for the first time  coming up next week.”  
dent. We’ve had answers all year. I  more than two years. Senior corner- 
r e a l l y f e e l g r e a t f o r B o b a n d t h e  b a c k D a r r i n Wa l l s ’ i n t e r c e p t i o n  Contact Sam Werner at  
defense.”  return for a touchdown in the third  swerner@nd.edu  

Victory under the lights brings bowl game 
Still perfect … still dictions have been made green jerseys for Notre 
By LAURA MYERS 

Senior kicker David Ruffer about where the Irish will Dame since a 38-0 loss on 
Sports Writer 

broke Notre Dame’s record now play in the postseason, Oct. 20, 2007 against 
for consecutive kicks in a in places from Las Vegas to Southern California. The Bright LED lights, Big season with two field goals Orlando. But Kelly said the last time the Irish won in Screen Saturday, one from 47 yards real importance lies in the green jerseys was the previ-
When freshman receiver and one from 39. Ruffer is extra 15 practices a bowl ous year in a 41-9 Senior Bennett Jackson heard his now 15-for-15 on the sea-game allows. Day victory against none name called prior to the son, eclipsing the record of “Again, as you continue to other than Army on Nov. 18, opening kickoff Saturday, 14 consecutive field goals develop your program, 2006. he looked to Yankee set by then-freshman Nick those 15 practices are very Stadium’s jumbotron and Tausch in 2009. Ruffer, who important. Now, if I brought Pinpoint control nodded his head at the is on the short list for the that up in the locker room, Freshman quarterback image, smiling. 2010 Lou Groza award, is my players don’t want to Tommy Rees completed 13 
Throughout the evening, 20 -for-20 in his kicking hear about 15 more prac-of his 20 passes for the sec-the 6,000 square foot LED career, and holds the tices. They want to hear ond straight week. His 65 screen showed game action longest active streak of about what’s the bowl desti-percent completion percent-as well as video montages made field goals in the nation?” he said. “But as age against both Utah and and various animations. Football Bowl Subdivision. you continue to build and Army places him fourth 
Irish coach Brian Kelly He is also the only kicker in develop your program, among Notre Dame fresh-said the jumbotron was the country who remains those are important, but man in completion percent­“really cool.” perfect after nine or more also getting to a bowl game age, behind Steve 
“There is a beautiful one field goal attempts. and continuing to build off Beuerlein, Jimmy Clausen here,” he said. “There were of the month of November.” and Matt LoVecchio. some videos that were Going bowling playing. Our guys saw With six wins and one Winning in green Contact Laura Myers at that.” game left to play, many pre-This was the first game in lmyers2@nd.edu 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
ARMY  3  0  0  0  3  
ND  0  17  10  0  27  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 0, Army 3 
Alex Carlton 20-yard field goal with 2:10 remaining. Drive: 17 plays, 78 yards, 8:45 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 3, Army 3 
David Ruffer 47-yard field goal with 14:50 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 36 yards, 2:15 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 10, Army 3 
Robert Hughes 1-yard run (Ruffer kick) with 
11:55 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 30 yards, 2:11 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 17, Army 3 
Tyler Eifert 31-yard pass from Tommy Rees (Ruffer kick) with 8:01 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 71 yards, 2:17 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 24, Army 3 
Darrin Walls 42-yard interception return (Ruffer kick) with 14:00 remaining. Drive: 0 plays, 0 yard, 0:00 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 27, Army 3 
Ruffer 39-yard field goal with 5:23 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 16 yards, 2:25 elapsed. 
statistics 
Rushing Yards 

Passing Yards 

Penalty Yards 

First Downs 

passing Rees 13-20-214 Steelman 2-7-39  
rushing  
Wood 14-95 Mealy 6-31 Hughes 9-40 Steelman 14-37 Gray 9-25 Hassin 8-23 Floyd 1-9 Cobbs 5-23 Rees 3-4 Jenkins 4-44 Maples 4-33 Crucitti 4-32 receiving  
Eifert 4-78 Brooks 1-27 Toma 4-63 Jordan 1-27 Floyd 3-63 Wood 1-5 Kamara 1-5  

page 4 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 22, 2010 


Threat neutralized 
After an emotional Senior Day victory over a top-25 team, the Irish avoided a letdown by beating Army 27-3. That’s two games in a row without giving up a touchdown, something Notre Dame hasn’t done since its national championship season of 1988. Sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o led the Irish with nine tackles, and senior corners Darrin Walls and Gary Gray each intercepted a pass against the Black Knights. Freshman quarterback Tommy Rees played his second solid game for the Irish, completing 65 percent of his passes and throwing a touchdown to sophomore tight end Tyler Eifert. Sophomore Cierre Wood led Notre Dame on the ground in Armando Allen’s absense, gaining 95 yards on 14 carries. 



Clockwise from top: Safety Jamoris Slaughter dives after a loose ball; receiver Roby Toma takes the ball upfield after one of his four catches; tight end Tyler Eifert snags a pass on the way to the end zone; quarterback Tommy Rees takes a snap from center Braxton Cave; coach Brian Kelly leads the Irish into Yankee Stadium. 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, November 22, 2010 page 9 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Associate Scene Editor 

“It all ends here.” So reads the first poster released for “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1.” This tagline seems to balance a strange mix of hope and dismal despair in it, and so too does the first chapter in the final film install­ment of the “Harry Potter” franchise. Gone are the cloistered-but-inviting walls of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Gone are the carefree days of Quidditch and blossoming romance that so dominated the most recent film, “Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.” And most importantly, gone are the ever-present and ever-knowledgeable adult mentors on whom Harry so often relied. 
Instead, it is not far into the film that Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe), Hermione Granger (Emma Watson) and Ron Weasley (Rupert Grint) find them­selves alone, running and hiding from the evil Lord Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes), his cruel henchmen and the corrupt magical government, the Ministry of Magic. None of their old haunts are safe and so, while on a mission to destroy all of Voldemort’s horcruxes — magical objects that contain a piece of his soul — they must travel throughout the wilder­ness with only a tent, a couple of spells and each other to keep them safe and hidden. But, naturally, problems arise and the trio can no longer run from place to place in complete secrecy. 
By the end of the film, Harry, Ron and Hermione have had a few too many close calls with their enemies and must change their course if they are to destroy the remaining horcruxes, uncover the mystery of the mythical Deathly Hallows and end Voldemort’s tyrannical, Muggle-hating rein once and for all. 
Here lies the central difference between “Deathly Hallows” and any and all previous Potter stories — not only is Voldemort back, he is in power and the stakes are at their highest. Harry’s great­est ally, Albus Dumbledore, is, for all intents and purposes, gone. Yet it has never been more clear that all hope for the Wizarding world, and humanity in general, rests in Harry Potter, the only one who can defeat Voldemort. 
This film, then, no longer feels like a series of stories that are leading towards whatever Harry’s final moment will be — this is it. The ante has been upped and Harry can no longer wait for the answer to come to him. Rather, he must seek it out himself, with the help of some very loyal friends. 
The films, like the books they are adapted from, have been growing contin­uously darker, making notable turns in “The Prisoner of Azkaban” and “The Order of the Phoenix” (the first of direc­tor David Yates’ “Potter” films). However, that darkness is more palpable in this installment than ever before. Not only is the film stylistically and aesthetically darker, it alludes to pieces of other liter­ature and to history to create a vivid depiction of the true horror of that is Voldemort’s wizarding world, drawing on images of the terrifying creatures from 
J.R.R. Tolkien’s “The Lord of the Rings” and references to totalitarian govern­ments of the not-so-distant past. 
“Deathly Hallows” has also moved from scenes that might frighten only young children to ones that had the mostly teenage and young 20-something audience audibly gasping in fear and suspense. But this eeriness never feels unnecessary. Rather, the many deaths, injuries, scenes of torture and all things in-between serve as an essential and constant reminder that this is no longer the story of a boy wizard — it is, at its core, a war between good and evil. 
In the past, the tremendous perform­ances by many of the adult characters, most of them renowned British screen and stage actors, anchored the some­times cheesy, childish films, whose main characters were still learning the craft of acting as the films were being made. And while all of the young actors, including Radcliffe, Grint and Watson, have much to learn, “Deathly Hallows: Part 1” is really a showcase of just how much they have grown as performers since their turns in “The Sorcerer’s Stone” nearly 10 years ago. Those three, specifically, have become talented actors, capable of han­dling very dense, mature material despite their age (Radcliffe is 21, Grint 22 and Watson, 20). Radcliffe continues to carry the film while Grint is allowed to be more than just comic relief. Most noteworthy is probably Watson, who has gone from a master of acting with her eyebrows to giving a much more nuanced performance in this film. 
“Deathly Hallows” also gave the actors their best material to work with. Screenwriter Steve Kloves, who wrote all of the screenplays except for “The Order of the Phoenix,” has here crafted his best script. Perhaps it is because all of the previous films were written before the final book had been released, leaving the trajectory of the story somewhat ambigu­ous. It may also be in part because Kloves was required to cut much less of the book’s material thanks to Warner Brothers’ decision to divide the book into two separate films. 
Whatever the reason, “Deathly Hallows” is the most cohesive and com­pelling script in the series. For every moment of tension, fear or death, Kloves added in very welcome doses of comedic relief to ground the film in its rich, warm and comforting past. Though Harry has been taken from everything he knows, the film makes sure to constantly remind the audience of how and why they con­nected with the Boy Who Lived in the first place. Unfortunately, Kloves could not completely banish some of the film’s cheesier moments, but they are few and far between, and often taken directly from text from the book itself. 

Cuts to the original story obviously had to be made. However, Kloves, Yates and all others involved in the film made them appropriately, leaving all major plot points in and cutting a lot of ultimately unnecessary, though wonderful, minor storylines. The film moves at a quicker pace than J.K. Rowling’s novel did, mak­ing the story more appropriate for film than the original may have been. 
A few scenes were added as well, notably one in which Hermione wipes her parents’ memories and sends them to Australia and one in which Harry tries to comfort a distraught Hermione by dancing with her. The first is brief, yet touching. The second, though it adds some unwarranted sexual tension, serves as a reminder that these are two teenagers, best friends but completely alone, bearing the weight of the wizard­ing world on their shoulders. They look ridiculous dancing together, but it enhances the reality of their situation and is a welcome reminder of the deep friendship that lies beneath this civil war. However, a final longing look from Harry threatens to ruin the entire moment. 
The film ends at an appropriate point. It combines both a much-needed scene of sentimentality with one of menace and a view of what’s to come in “Part 2.” 
“Deathly Hallows: Part 1” is easily the best film to date. It remains true to the book, yet makes for a fantastic piece of cinema in-and-of-itself. It feels so differ­ent from the others, lacking much of what seems to define the “Potter” uni­verse most. However, it also feels like the first act in the culmination of the story and of all the films, sure to lead to a dra­matic and climactic close when “Part 2” hits theaters in July. 
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 
Warner Bros. 
Director: David Yates Starring: Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint 

Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
GASPAR GARICIA DE PAREDES Observer Graphic 
Monday, November 22, 2010 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS page 10 
NFL 

Kitna leads Cowboys to second victory under Garrett 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Jason Garrett is still perfect as the interim coach of the Dallas Cowboys. And if Bryan McCann keeps coming up with long, game-changing returns for touchdowns, it may stay that way for awhile. 
A week after a 101-yard touch­down return helped Garrett win his debut, McCann grabbed a batted-down punt and took it 97 yards for a go-ahead touchdown that sent Dallas to a 35-19 victo­ry over the Detroit Lions on Sunday. 
McCann’s score put the Cowboys ahead 14-12, then Jon Kitna put the game away by throwing two short touchdown passes to Miles Austin and sur­prising everyone with a 29-yard touchdown run, the longest of his 14-year career. 
Even more satisfying for the 38-year-old backup, who is play­ing because Tony Romo is hurt, this one came against a team that gave up on him a few years ago. 
Kitna was 18 of 24 for 147 yards and three touchdowns. He also was Dallas’ second-leading rusher with 40 yards on four carries. He also didn’t have any turnovers. 
Detroit’s Shaun Hill was 32 of 47 for 289 yards and two touch­downs. He was intercepted once, on a punt-like heave in the final minutes. 
For all the on-field heroics, the big-picture star for Dallas is Garrett, the 44-year-old offensive coordinator promoted two weeks ago by owner Jerry Jones once it was clear the team had given up under coach Wade Phillips. The former backup to Troy Aikman tightened up the rules, cracked down on enforcement and has quickly made a strong case to keep the job permanently. 
By winning twice for him, the Cowboys (3-7) have consecutive victories for the first time this season. This also was their first win at home, having lost the first four. The real test comes next, with back-to-back games against last year’s Super Bowl oppo­nents. The champion Saints come to Cowboys Stadium on Thanksgiving, then Dallas plays at Indianapolis. 
The Lions (2-8) lost their 26th straight on the road, extending a woeful NFL record. 
A crowd of 81,261 came to Cowboys Stadium with renewed interest in this season, curious whether last weekend’s road win over the Giants was the start of something special under Garrett. He led them onto the field for pregame introductions and stood on the midfield star logo, patting guys on the backside as they ran past him. 
The defense opened the game with a stop, but then Detroit downed the punt at the 2. It hardly mattered as Kitna com­pleted 7 of 8 passes while marching Dallas 98 yards for a touchdown, with rookie Dez Bryant making a terrific grab over a smaller cornerback for the touchdown and a quick 7-0 lead. 
But the Cowboys went into a funk after that. Their next six possessions were the kind of stretch that got Phillips fired: zero first downs, minus-10 yards overall, a fumble at the 12 that led to a go-ahead touchdown for Detroit just before halftime, then a holding penalty in the end zone for a safety that put the Lions ahead 12-7 early in the third quarter. 
Then Detroit punted and John Wedling jumped over the goal line, tapping the ball back into the field of play. It was about to be the fourth time the Lions downed the ball inside the 5, except that the ball hopped up waist-high — and right to McCann. 
The speedster took off for the sideline. He was never touched en route to the second-longest punt return in franchise history. Replays showed he may have stepped out of bounds about 30 yards from the end zone, but replays were slow in coming so it was never challenged. 

The previous Sunday, McCann’s long interception came with Dallas leading the Giants only 9-3. Instead of New York getting a go-ahead score, the Cowboys came away leading by 
13. It earned him the NFC defen­sive player of the week award. It is quite a streak for an undrafted rookie from SMU who was only called up from the practice squad on Nov. 4. 

Given a lead to protect, the Dallas defense forced a fumble two snaps later. Kitna then led the Cowboys to touchdowns on the next three possessions — the 4-and 3-yard scoring passes to Austin, and Kitna’s stunning jaunt down the left sideline. 
Jahvid Best tried playing on a pair of injured big toes, but had just 2 yards on three carries, forcing third-down back Maurice Morris to become the main ball carrier. He had 31 yards on 10 carries. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Commodores upset Tar Heels in tournament 
what’s wrong with the slumping final seconds, he ran to the the lead back to four. rebound for a 48-47 lead. 
Associated Press 

Tar Heels. bench, threw back his head and The Tar Heels wasted several The Commodores got sloppy Tyler Zeller had 20 points let out a big “Yeah!!!” chances to score off turnovers and Carolina pounced. Zeller 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico — and 10 rebounds for North The Tar Heels made a last — they got nothing off a Zeller dunked off Vanderbilt’s 20th John Jenkins scored 16 points, Carolina, and freshman gasp effort for the win when blocked shot or a Leslie turnover of the game — and and Festus Ezeli and Jeffery Harrison Barnes rebounded they got the ball inside to McDonald steal at midcourt — there was still 10 minutes left Taylor each had 15 to lead from a bad performance to Zeller, who got the basket and that could have inched them to play. Vanderbilt to a 72-65 win over score 11. the foul. Vanderbilt forward closer to the lead or put them Ten minutes was plenty of reeling No. 8 North Carolina on Outside of Zeller, the Tar Andre Walker fouled out on the ahead. time for Vanderbilt. Sunday night in the Puerto Rico Heels had no offensive threat play and Zeller made the free Try as they could, the The Commodores went ahead Tip-Off tournament. inside or out. He made seven throw to make it 59-57. Commodores couldn’t hold on free throws and Ezeli 
The Commodores (3-1) beat a baskets, and no one else made It wasn’t enough. down the charging Tar Heels dunked like he wanted to top-10 team for the first time more than four. Vanderbilt fattened the lead completely. destroy the rim for a 57-51 since knocking off No. 1 That wasn’t a problem for the from the free-throw line and Brad Tinsley was whistled for lead. Tennessee on Feb. 26, 2008. Commodores. Taylor and Ezeli Taylor slid down the baseline an intentional offensive foul for It was an emotional win for 
The few hundred Vanderbilt were tough inside, with 16 for a bank-layup and a 65-58 clocking McDonald in the face. Stallings, who was an assistant fans who made the trip to rebounds and three blocked lead. Lance Goulbourne When the refs went to check a for Williams at Kansas. Puerto Rico serenaded the Tar shots between them. Jenkins slammed home a 3-point miss replay, coach Kevin Stallings Barnes, who went 0 for 12 Heels (2-2) with chants of did his work from the free-for a seven-point lead with 1:20 called his team over and basi-against Minnesota, wasted no “Overrated!” For this year’s Tar throw line with a 10-for-12 left. cally told them to snap out of it. time scoring in this one, hitting Heels, they may be right. effort that first built the lead, After trailing by 10 at the “That’s what we’re waiting a jumper on the first possession 
Coach Roy Williams insisted then helped Vanderbilt keep it break, the Tar Heels started the for! We’re just waiting for the of the game. Barnes, a presea­after losing to Minnesota on for the win. The Commodores second half in attack mode and next bad thing to happen!” son All-America team pick as a Friday that he didn’t think any-bounced back after losing in trimmed the deficit to one. They didn’t wait long. freshman, scored 19 points in more about last year’s 17-loss the final seconds to West Ezeli pushed them back with a McDonald made one of his the first half against Hofstra on debacle. He’ll now be forced to Virginia on Friday. sweet spin move in the paint two free throws, then hit a Thursday and hadn’t made a answer more questions about When Ezeli subbed out in the for a three-point play that got jumper off his own offensive bucket again. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR SALE 
GREAT LOCATION: 
House for sale/rent on Angela. 2.5K sq ft home. 4BR 3.5BA. 
Purchase price of $347,500. Perfect rental for faculty/staff 
$1,250 per month plus utilities. 
Call 574-232-2211. Photos available on the web at 610.sbrp.us ——————————————— 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, 
we can help. 
For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: 
http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call 
Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— Michael: “It was on company prop­erty with company property. So double jeopardy, we’re fine.” 
Ryan: “I don’t think you understand how double jeopardy works.” 
Michael: “Oh, I’m sorry. What is ‘we’re fine?’” ——————————————— 
Dan: “I could not answer you that question.” ——————————————— Ace Ventura: “Well, I'm not really ready for a relationship, Lois, but thank you for asking. Hey, maybe I'll give you a call sometime. Your number's still 911? All righty then.” ——————————————— Airplane: “There's no reason to become alarmed, and we hope you'll enjoy the rest of your flight. By the way, is there anyone on board who knows how to fly a plane?” ——————————————— 

Harry: “Yeah I called her up, she gave me a bunch of crap about me not listening to her, or something, I don’t know, I wasn’t really paying attention.” ——————————————— Woody Allen: “I was thrown out of college for cheating on the meta­physics exam: I looked into the soul of another boy.” ——————————————— 
Spaceballs: "Name's Barf. I'm a Mog, half man half dog. I'm my own best friend." ——————————————— 
Dick Pepperfield: "How did you learn to play basketball?" 
Jackie Moon: "I saw it on TV a cou­ple times, I thought I could do that." ——————————————— 

Monday, November 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish off to NCAA Championships 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
In an event featuring more than 30 teams, the Irish took third in last week’s NCAA Midwest Regional. Now they head to the NCAA Championships at the LaVern Gibson Championship Cross Country Course in Terre Haute, Ind., where the competition promises to be even tougher. 
“Nationals is always special because the best runners in the country are all here, and it’s exciting to be in such a com­petitive race,” sophomore Jeremy Rae said. 
The men fell in third place behind Wisconsin and Indiana at the Regional competition. Individually, senior Dan Jackson, Rae and junior Jordan Carlson earned all-region hon­ors for their top-25 finishes. Jackson’s fourth-place finish led the Irish, followed by Rae’s 16th place and Carlson’s 22nd place finish. 
The 10-kilometer tournament 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
during the second half, Notre Dame was never able to over­come a 19-2 Kentucky run in the first half. The tandem of Dunlap and Keyla Snowden, who finished with 17 points after going 5-12 behind the arc, prevented the Irish from taking a lead whenever they were in striking distance. 
Perhaps the most striking dif­ferential on the stat sheet is the performance from the three-point line. Notre Dame finished 2-for-15 from three-point land, including 0-for-8 in the second half. The Wildcats went 8-for­27 from behind the arc, shoot­ing 46 percent in the second. 
Sunday’s contest marked the first meeting between the two programs. The loss snapped that begins on Monday will set seven Irish runners against 31 teams from across the country. Eighteen of those teams consist of the top teams from each of the nine regional meets last week. The remaining 13 teams, including the Irish, were spe­cially selected. 
“Team-wise, our goal is to be in the top 15,” Rae said. “But more importantly, we just want to pick up experience for next year, when we’ll have an even stronger team.” 
The past week of practice has consisted of tapering, with low-key practices of lower mileage in preparation for the race. 
Joining Jackson, Rae and Carlson in the line-up will be juniors Johnathan Shawel and Joe Miller and freshmen Martin Grady and Walter Schafer. 
The race, hosted by Indiana State, is set to begin at 12:48 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
Notre Dame’s 18-game win streak against first-time oppo­nents and its four-game win streak against Southeastern Conference teams. 
Senior guard Brittany Mallory sat out Sunday’s game after rolling her ankle during Thursday’s loss to UCLA and is currently day-to-day. Freshman guard Kayla McBride started in her place, alongside Diggins, Novosel, junior forward Devereaux Peters and senior Becca Bruszewski. 
This season’s starting lineup is a stark contrast to last sea­son’s, when Irish coach Muffet McGraw regularly started four seniors. 
The Irish take the court next against IUPUI Friday at 2 p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Clark 
continued from page 16 
both teams at Alumni Stadium. 
“It wasn’t an easy night to play — some wind and rain,” Clark said. “We didn’t defend. It’s not easy to play in as strong a wind as that.” 
The teams played a score­less first half before regula­tion ended in a 1-1 tie. Olsen scored both of Dartmouth’s two goals. He opened scoring in the 65th minute with an unassisted goal after finding the back of the net on a loose rebound. 
“The first goal he got behind us,” Clark said. “[Junior defender] Aaron [Maund] was a little bit injured — he was slowed up by that a little bit. [Dartmouth] is a dangerous team. They’ve got some pret­ty potent weapons and one of them was the final goal.” 
The Irish (10-6-4) quickly responded with their only goal of the game nine min­utes later as sophomore mid­fielder Dillon Powers scored off an assist from senior for­ward Steven Perry. Although Notre Dame only had seven shots compared to Dartmouth’s 13 in the first half, the Irish turned the tables in the second half, tal­lying 18 shots to only two from the Big Green. 

Notre Dame had a chance towardsthe end of regulation, as freshman midfielder Harrison Shipp launched a shot that Dartmouth Goalie Lyman Missimer deflected with one minute left in the second half. 
Notre Dame had 15 total corner kicks to the Big Green’s 7, but were unable to capitalize on the set pieces for any points. 
Dartmouth (12-6-1) trav­eled to Notre Dame riding a five-game win streak, includ­ing a first round 4-0 victory over No. 11 Monmouth on Thursday. 
“I always say it’s a good season if you get into the NCAAs, and a very good sea­son if you can play past Thanksgiving,” Clark said. “Unfortunately, we’ve stopped at just a good sea­son. We’re disappointed because I think this team had deserved and had the capa­bility of going much further.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles move to 3-0 on season 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles extended their win streak to three this week­end as they defeated North Central College 75-56 in the Holiday Inn Select Tip-Off Tournament title game. 
The Belles (3-0) took an early lead over the Cardinals (1-3) when they scored the first five points of the game within the first minute. They never trailed North Central, heading into the locker room leading 32-22 at the half. 
Junior Maggie Ronan scored the first shot for Saint Mary’s. 

After a defensive rebound from senior Liz Wade on the other end, junior Patsy Mahoney took the ball and scored a three-pointer for the Belles. 
Freshman Shanlynn Bias, sophomore Annie Doyle and junior captain Kelley Murphy also contributed to the offen­sive output by Saint Mary’s. Though the Cardinals had defeated Webster University the day before, the Belles had also trounced Aurora 84-59 in a semifinals match. 
This is the first tournament championship for the Belles since they won the Knox College Classic during the 2004-2005 season. 
Murphy led the squad on offense with 17 points. She fin­ished 7 of 10 from the field to go along with three free throws. Murphy was named to the all-tournament team alongside Ronan, who was the tournament MVP. Ronan scored 12 points in the title game. 
The Belles look to go 4-0 when they face Anderson University Tuesday night at 
7:30 p.m. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 


NFL 

Young hurts thumb in 19-16 loss 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — An injured Vince Young tossed his shoulder pads and No. 10 jer­sey into the stands following Tennessee’s overtime loss to the Washington Redskins on Sunday. 
Young, who injured his right thumb late in the third quar­ter and was replaced by rook­ie Rusty Smith, left for the locker room but returned to the sideline and had the thumb taped and re-taped in an effort to return. He even tried a glove, but coach Jeff Fisher stuck with Smith. 
After the game, Young walked toward the tunnel and suddenly tossed his shoulder 
pads  and  jersey  into  the  
stands.  
A  few  minutes  later  he  

walked past reporters already dressed, ignoring both ques­tions and his old college team­mate who tried to talk to him. 

Three hours after the game, Young wrote on Twitter that he was fine and apologized to his teammates. He then tweet­ed, “Just want to play.” 
Fisher said Young has a torn flexor tendon in his right thumb and may need season-ending surgery. Either way, Fisher says Smith now is Tennessee’s starter after the fifth-year veteran’s latest meltdown that has Young’s future with this franchise in question in a season he need­ed to prove he could be their franchise quarterback. 
“He threw half his uniform in the stands. I think clearly that is no way to respond, and so we have some things that we have to sort out with him,” Fisher said of Young. “He may need surgery. And if that’s the case, he’s done for the year.” 
Fisher and Young spoke in the locker room in what apparently was a heated dis­cussion. Fisher wouldn’t dis­cuss what Young said to him. 
“That is between me and him and the team,” Fisher said. 
And the Titans aren’t talking either. 
“We were told to keep our mouths shut, and that’s what I’m gonna do,” receiver Nate Washington said. 
The Tennessean reported Sunday night team officials will discuss Young in a confer­ence call with owner Bud Adams on Monday. Adams was at the game but left quickly. 
Young was the No. 3 overall pick in 2006, that season’s Offensive Rookie of the Year. He led the Titans to the play­offs in his second season but he got hurt in the 2008 season opener where he reacted poorly to fans booing him after a second interception. A day later, Fisher contacted police for help because family wor­ried Young might hurt himself. 

page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 22, 2010 
HOCKEY 

Irish defend home ice with pair of victories 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
In their final season at the Joyce Center, the No. 11 Irish continued to defend their home ice with two wins over Michigan State in a weekend series. Notre Dame defeated the Spartans 6-2 Friday night 
a nd  4 -2  S atu r da y n i gh t  t o  
ext e n d t he ir wi n streak  a t  
home to six.  

“We were a little excited to play in front of our home crowd,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “It was a great crowd and the students were awesome. It’s nice to be home.” 
Returning home after a five-game road trip, the Irish (9-3­1, 7-2-1-1 CCHA) opened play with the No. 17 Spartans (4-5­3, 2-5-1-0 CCHA) in a score­less first period. Both teams had their share of chances early but neither team could break through. 
In the second, the Irish opened scoring three minutes into the period, as senior defenseman Joe Lavin took a pass from senior center Ben Ryan and netted a shorthand­ed goal from the right slot. 
“We like to move the puck on the penalty kill. We like to play it just like it's 5-on-5,” Lavin said. “I think we have an advantage because we work on it so much in practice 
— we use each other really well. Especially on the penalty kill, it [a goal] takes the wind out of their sails. When you're 
on the power play you're expected to score, so to give one up — that’s pretty big for us.” 
The Irish pushed the lead to 2-0 on an even-strength slap shot goal from senior wing Calle Ridderwall three min­utes later. The Spartans halved the deficit just seven seconds later when forward Derek Grant beat Irish sopho­more goaltender Mike Johnson through the legs after Johnson dropped the puck. 
The action didn’t let up from that point, as Irish freshman wing Jeff Costello and Spartan freshman wing Greg Wolfe traded goals through the mid­dle stretch of the period to put the score at 3-2. A power-play goal from the point on a slap shot from freshman center 
T.J. Tynan put Notre Dame up 4-2. 
Fellow freshman and line-mate Mike Voran scored an unassisted goal a minute later to put the Irish up 5-2 as the period closed. All in all, there were seven goals in a wild period that saw Notre Dame pull away. 
“The second was just a mat­ter of them making a few mis­takes and us capitalizing,” Ryan said. “I think we're much more explosive this year.” 
A lone goal from freshman wing Anders Lee and a strong defensive effort highlighted the third period, as the Irish cruised to a 6-2 victory. 
“All in all, the kids played pretty well,” Jackson said. “I was really pleased that we played a smart third period — that makes all the difference to me.” 
Action started quickly Saturday, as Ryan was tripped just seconds into the game and was awarded a penalty shot, which he missed. The senior redeemed himself seven minutes later, scoring the game’s first goal off a pass from Ridderwall on a break­away. The Spartans answered as the first period drew to a close when Dean Chelios, son of NHL great Chris Chelios, beat Johnson to even the score. 
After a series of goals to push the tie to 2-2, senior Calle Ridderwall received a five-minute major for board­ing, ensuring that Notre Dame would spend the rest of the game on the penalty kill. With their backs against the wall, the Irish found some late ­game magic again, as junior defender Sean Lorenz broke free and buried a short-hand­ed goal to put the Irish ahead with 2:23 remaining in the game. 
“We were on the PK, [senior wing Ryan Guentzel] found a seam,” Lorenz said. “I don’t know how he found it, but it was a great look by him. I guess you get lucky when you close your eyes and shoot.” 
Tynan added a late-game empty-net goal to put the Irish clear at 4-2 and ensure the weekend sweep. 
“We didn’t have it tonight [Saturday]. I think that was evident from the start,” Ryan said. “We didn’t have the same jump we did last night. It’s a character win. Those are the games we didn’t win last year.” 
The win gave the Irish six points on the weekend to maintain their one-point lead over Michigan in the CCHA. Notre Dame will travel to North Dakota to take on the Fighting Sioux Friday and Saturday in a weekend series. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 



Monday, November 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
Rose “The Rivetor” Raderstorf Farivari, a senior in McGlinn, def. Michelle “Hungry Hungry” defeated Pangborn sophomore 
Baraka 

Hopke Castner in a split-decision. continued from page 16 Raderstorf, a sophomore from Farivari’s determination and 
McGlinn and a lefty, used her counters enabled her to deal 
Durkin took control of the right jab to her advantage and with Castner’s aggressiveness match in the beginning and peppered Hopke with every from the outset of the fight. An maintained that control opportunity. In addition to hav-even first round ended with throughout the whole fight. She ing her left-handedness as an both fighters landing numerous was in attack mode, and advantage, Raderstorf also had combinations. seemed to catch Durbin off the benefit of a clearly longer An even more hotly contested guard with her aggressive reach than Hopke. This allowed second round followed the first, attacking tempo. Raderstorf to throw punches at as both Farivari and Castner 
Durkin was relentless from Hopke without being in range to fought to establish dominance, beginning to end, often corner-receive them herself. Hopke though neither was able to do ing Durbin and nailing punches used a powerful left hook when-so. when the sophomore from ever she could draw Raderstorf Farivari pulled away in the Pangborn least expected it. in close enough and attacked third and final round, wearing Durkin’s attacking style secured her flank on multiple occasions. down the fatigued Castner on the unanimous victory. The two fighters disregarded her way to the split-decision vic­
defense for most of the three tory. Meggan “The Tooth” Muller rounds. They lined up and trad­def. Tegan “Gimme some ed punches, and ultimately Deirdre “Blackout Brigade” Carmax so my lips don’t get” Raderstorf’s jab and reach won Murdy def. Steph “Dude Chapman out, carrying her to victory in a Where’s” Makar 
Muller and Chapman had as split-decision. This match between two tall, tight of a fight as was seen all physically imposing fighters saw night. Each had her fair share Katie “Make ‘em Say Ugghh” Murdy, a South Bend native, of punches, and each came out Meunier def. Alicia “The Texas defeat Makar, a senior in Walsh, with a sense of urgency that Hammer” Danto in a unanimous decision. sophomore from Lyons, who Sirianni carried them from the first bell The two fighters took a defen-At the outset, both attempted landed the majority of combina-In a battle of hall mates, until the final bell. sive strategy and ducked and to use their length and impres-tions. Cavanaugh sophomore Christina 
By the end of the third round, dipped their way through a sive reach to keep the other at The first round saw Brann “The Cannon” Buchanan bested Muller kept her composure and defensive stalemate. Like two bay, forgoing the brawling style aggressively pursue Seasly Sirianni, a junior, by split-deci­separated herself from pilots engaged in aerial combat, of many of the other fights. around the ring, trying to back sion. This closely contested Chapman with a number of the two fighters waited until Murdy showed an edge in the the Welsh Family junior up match pitted two very different impressive combinations that they had maneuvered into per-first round that she maintained against the ropes, but Seasly fighting styles against each enabled her to capture the vic-fect position before throwing throughout the rest of the fight. proved very elusive. other, with Sirianni’s powerful tory. their strikes. When they struck, Murdy’s reach continued to Each fighter landed numerous body shots and aggressive 
they struck quickly and effi-wear down Makar in the sec-blows in the second round as offense being met by Marina “Oh-H” Ramos def. ciently. ond, landing numerous violent the fight slowed down and more Buchanan’s slippery defense Franci “In her boots Ya’ll” Meunier, an off-campus senior combinations. punches found their mark. and quick jabs. Rooney and a lefty, used her right jab as Though the third was hotly Brann came out strong in the Buchanan used her quickness 
This match started off very her main attack, throwing it contested like the first two, third, immediately putting to dodge blows and land punch-intense as both fighters showed multiple times and hitting her Murdy established dominance in Seasly on the defensive, and es while Sirianni was extended some early emotion and energy. target. Danto, a junior from the third and never looked back. gained the upper hand in the in the first round. Sirianni retal-The first round was evenly Howard, fought Meunier’s jab decisive round and in the match iated with a strong offensive in fought and neither fighter had with a nice one-two combina-Laura “Gideon” McCarty def. as a whole. the second that brought the separated herself from the other tion. The fighters showed great Maria “Munchkin” Gaither fight back into balance. A by the end. composure in the ring and, Despite getting knocked down Erin “Just Don’t” McNeill def. fiercely competitive third round, 
By the third round, Ramos unlike many fighters, were able and bloodied, McCarty defeated Melissa “Do It To It” Truitt with each fighter going full landed several headshots, which to maintain their defensive tech-Gaither in a unanimous decision McNeill defeated Truitt handi-force until the final bell, came lead to her victory by unani-niques throughout the fight. that was never really in doubt. ly by unanimous decision, show-down to just a few points. The mous decision. Rooney also had Ultimately, in a split-decision, McCarty, a McGlinn senior, ing impressive reach, keeping repeated one-two combinations her fair share of sparks during Meunier won over the judges overcame a stumble in the first the Cavanaugh senior at bay Buchanan landed late in this the fight, but was not able to and took the fight. round and quickly landed a blis-throughout the fight. round contributed directly to hold off Ramos to secure the tering series of punches on the Truitt was unable to get inside her victory. judges’ decisions. Brittni Alexander “The Great” off-campus senior, closing out the long wingspan of McNeill in 
def. Katie “The Rainmaker” the round in impressive fashion. the first round, as the eventual Madeline “The Maddog” Mollie “Chumbawamba” Raskob The second round saw victor landed punches from dis-Andersen def. Jane “That’s not Howard def. Norah “Wildcard” Both fighters came out strong McCarty require medical atten-tance on the frustrated Truitt. my name” Obringer Hass and energetic in an intense first tion as a Gaither punch found The second proved to be much After three tiring rounds, 
The match started off slowly, round. They both landed a num-her nose, sending blood stream-of the same for McNeill, who Andersen edged out Obringer in with neither fighter throwing ber of punches, but as the first ing down her face. McCarty successfully executed a strategy one of the highest-energy fights many punches. The pace picked round wore on, Alexander recovered, however, and fin-that kept Truitt from landing of the night. An incredible num­up late in the first round, with began to gain the upper hand. ished the round in remarkable point-scoring blows. McNeill ber of punches were thrown, as both Howard and Hass landing She maintained that slight form. continued to wear down Truitt each boxer came out swinging multiple jabs. edge for the entirety of the sec-The two continued to brawl into the third. with the first bell and did not 
The beginning of the second ond round, although Raskob into the third and final round, The final round saw a deter-stop until the referee separated round belonged to Howard, as remained tough in her first constantly in contact with each mined Truitt put up an them with the chime that ended she hit Hass with many punch-Baraka Bout match. other, yet McCarty aggressively admirable display, but she was the round. In a split-decision, es. The final round belonged to showed why she was the better unable to overcome McNeill’s Andersen, a sophomore from 
However, as the round contin-Alexander, who came out fighter, landing multiple combi-early dominance as the judges Welsh Family, used effective ued on, Hass fought back, using aggressively and overpowered nations as she cruised to victory. delivered a decision of unani-blocking, good footwork, and a number of combinations to Raskob for the last minute and mous victory for the off-campus impressive endurance to outlast keep it close. a half. Raskob was forced to Ragan “2 Legit 2 Quit” Todd senior. the fast and numerous punches 
But in the third round, an defend herself and fight defen-def. Nicole “Cry Me A River” thrown by Obringer, a junior aggressive Howard came out sively rather than throw any Rivera Kaitlyn “Bulldozer” Cole def. from Pangborn. firing and took firm control. punches of her own. In a unanimous decision, Bethany “The Wall” Freeburg The first round was an evenly Hass tried to rally, but it was too Alexander won by unanimous Todd, a sophomore from In an otherwise even fight, matched showcase of athletic late, and Howard was awarded decision. Pangborn, cruised past Rivera Cole used two barrages of prowess as each fighter demon-the split-decision victory. en route to victory. punches in the first and second strated her speed, agility and 
Ally “Ali” Schneider def. Kelly The two fighters refused to rounds to defeat Freeburg by power. In the second, Obringer Dina “Saurus Rex” “The Cajun Cannon” Nolan dance around and instead were unanimous decision. fought even more aggressively Montemarano def. Kaitlyn In the first round, Nolan came in constant contact throughout In the first round, the two and managed to spend the “The Volcanic Ash Cloud” out very aggressive, gaining an the first round. Both landed fighters went at it rather evenly majority of the round on offense Howard early lead. Schneider managed vicious combinations on the until Cole, a Welsh Family soph-while Andersen blocked, bobbed 
Montemarano attacked fellow to take control later in the other, yet Todd did so with more omore, pushed Cole, a senior, and weaved. The third round junior Howard with her arms round, landing numerous hooks frequency. against the ropes and unleashed began in much the same way, wide-open, disregarding and jabs. The second round saw the two a torrent of blows to the head with Andersen weathering a defense for a stronger offensive Schenider began to run away trading flurries back and forth and body of Freeburg, causing storm of blows, but midway attack. with the match in the second with neither able to establish the referee to stop the fight at through “The Maddog” broke 
Howard accepted round, coming out aggressively dominance. Todd showed one point. free and retaliated against the Montemarano’s invitation and and landing multiple punches. impressive toughness in dealing The second round proved to tired Obringer, landing punch peppered her with straights and Schenidar also managed to with multiple blows from be much of the same as the two after punch. These point-earn­jabs to the face. avoid Nolan’s punch attempts Rivera. battled for most of the round ing punches may have tipped 
Montemarano’s offensive with successful dodges. Todd came out strong in the with Cole again riddling the scales in Andersen’s favor, attack was fearsome, however, In the third round, with her third, landing a quick volley of Freeburg with punch after but her good defense and and clearly carried a lot of back against the wall, Nolan blows to the head and body of punch as Freeburg tried in vain patience were crucial in secur­power. Howard was able to went all-out, hoping to pull off a Rivera, impressing the judges to to escape. ing her victory. throw more punches, but it comeback. But Nolan quickly the point of a unanimous deci-The result of the fight was seemed that Montemarano’s tired, leading to Schneider sion. never in doubt after the first Contact Lucie Gordon at were slightly more accurate and increasing her lead and ulti-round, and Freeburg was lgordo01@saintmarys.edu, Ian carried a little bit more force. mately winning in a unanimous Alison “Sha-Zam” Brann def. unable to amount any sort of Garrahy at igarrahy@nd.edu, 
In a fearsome battle, decision Charlotte “Vitamin” Seasly charge in the third round as Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu, Montemarano was able to carry Brann came out of the gate Cole cruised to victory. David Kenney at the day with a split-decision Nina “Persian Punisher” aggressively and won a hard-dkenney1@nd.edu, Conor Kelly going her way, but not without a Farivari def. Annie “No Need to fought fight with Seasly in a Christina “The at ckelly17@nd.edu, Jack Yusko valiant and powerful effort by Duck” Castner split-decision. Each had their Cannon”Buchanan def. at jyusko@nd.edu, and Adam Howard. In a hotly contested bout, moments, but it was Brann, a Stephanie “The Situation” Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 22, 2010 
Brey 
continued from page 16 
defend and let us try to figure it out as a group where we’re going to get scoring from.” 
Notre Dame (3-0) is coming off a 50-point drubbing of Chicago St in which five players scored in double digits and the Irish passed the century mark for the first time since the 2008-09 season. The Irish are averaging 90 points per game and have won by at least 19 points in each contest. 
“One of the things we talk about is that it’s a long game, and not to panic if we’re not in a flow early, and not to panic if a team is throwing in threes like [against Chicago State] or just to under­stand that it’s a longer game,” Brey said. “When we do get in a rhythm, offensively you can really put some numbers on the board.” 
The Irish were without senior forward Scott Martin against Chicago State. Martin has been suffering from back spasms, but Brey said that he is confident Martin will play against Maine. 
“For about three weeks, he’s had some back spasms,” he said. 
Waldrum 
continued from page 16 
on its own field. 
“Teams go in there and struggle because they play well for periods of time, but they can’t sustain it,” he said. “Our teams over the last few years have been very good about sustaining that intensity and focus over 90 minutes. A lot of teams lose before they ever step on that field against them [Tarheels].” 
Senior midfielder Rose Augustin started the scoring for the No. 7/10 Irish (18-2-2), burying an empty-net shot in the 13th minute following a free kick from junior defender Jessica Schuveiller. Schuveiller’s strike just inside the midfield mark was bobbled by Tarheels keeper Hannah Daly, eventually finding a well-posi­tioned Augustin for the easy score. 
No. 3/4 North Carolina (19-3-2) knotted up the score at 1-1 less than six minutes later, when freshman Crystal Dunn found the back of the net from 20 yards out on what Waldrum called a “world-class” goal. Yet senior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss and the Irish defense settled down, yield­ing few opportunities and taking the Tarheels out of their element for the remaining 71 minutes. 
“When it got down to it, we were very good and very organ­ized, while most everything they [Tarheels] created came either from shots that were really not dangerous, or we handled that danger really well,” Waldrum said. “Our matchups worked very well for us, and of course having Nikki play as well as she played is “I think a lot of it is your body being in a little bit of shock with the intensity of what you’re doing every day. It’s not anything we can’t treat, but we felt with where we were at, not to push it. He felt like ‘Hey coach, if this was a Big East game, I could play.’ But I think we need to be smart. I would anticipate he will play Monday.” 
Freshman guard Eric Atkins, who started in place of Martin, scored 12 points and recorded five assists in 32 minutes of play against Chicago State. Sophomores Jack Cooley and Joey Brooks also played signifi­cant minutes in the win. 
“I feel we have six starters with Atkins,” Brey said. “Then with Cooley coming in and doing what he does, and doing it more confi­dently than he did last year is important. And Joey embracing that role, I think that’s still a work in progress and we have to keep teaching.” 
Tip off between Notre Dame and Maine will be at 7:30 p.m. tonight at the Purcell Pavilion and the Joyce Center. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
always a plus.” 
Schuveiller scored the game-winner in the 33rd minute, send­ing home an Augustin corner to give the Irish a 2-1 advantage. Junior forward Melissa Henderson headed in a strong service from an Augustin free kick to extend the lead to 3-1 in the opening minutes of the second half, and junior midfielder Ellen Jantsch put the game out of reach in the 77th minute with her sec­ond goal of the season. 
“You count on those kids to rise to the occasion,” Waldrum said. “I thought Melissa was fantastic. She was dangerous almost every time she touched the ball, and I thought it was one of her best per­formances against Carolina that she’s had in her three years here. Rose continues to be that solid, steady performer, and she seeks to score goals in big games.” 
In just the second meeting between the two programs, Notre Dame will face No. 6 Oklahoma State (20-3-2) Friday at 7 p.m. in Stillwater, Okla., with a trip to the College Cup on the line. Waldrum said the 5-day break gives his squad time to adjust its game plan to a Cowgirls squad coming off a 2-0 win over Duke last Friday night. 
“I like this part of the tourna­ment where you play one game a week,” Waldrum said. “I think it’s more conducive for all the teams involved. They get the proper rest they need and a real chance to recover. We know Oklahoma State’s had a great year. I think they’ll be very excited to play, and we’ll be ready to play.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish fall in Big East semis 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish fought for their postseason lives at the Big East Championships this weekend, defeating Villanova in the quarterfinals before falling to Cincinnati in the semifinals. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said the Irish needed to win the conference tournament in order to earn a spot in the NCAA Championships, which was the team’s ultimate goal. Although the squad fell short of a conference title, Brown said she was still proud of her team’s performance. 
“Our goal wasn’t just to beat Villanova,” Brown said. “We wanted to win the tournament and advance to the NCAA’s. Still, we made so many improvements I was really happy with the progress we showed.” 
Notre Dame (18-12, 10-4 Big East), the fifth-seeded team in the tournament, defeated fourth-seeded Villanova (23-7, 11-3) Friday 3-1 (25-20, 25-17, 21-25, 25-14) in the opening round of the tournament. With the win, the Irish earned a berth in the conference semifi­nals for the 16th consecutive season. 

Junior Kristen Dealy and sophomore Hillary Eppinck each had 15 kills to lead the Irish attack. Brown attributed the team’s success on Friday to its offensive improvements since the last meeting against the Wildcats, where the Irish fell 3-1 on Nov. 5. 
“It was good to have played them recently,” Brown said. “The game was so fresh in our minds, so we made good adjustments to our offense, which wasn’t good in our first meeting.” 
On Saturday, the Irish met top-seeded Cincinnati (28-5, 13-1) with a trip to the finals on the line. The team fell 3-0 (25-23, 25-22, 25-19) to the Bearcats in what proved to be a back-and-forth, tightly con­tested affair. Freshman Andrea McHugh led the offense for Notre Dame with 16 kills. 
Brown said that her effort was once again a function of the team’s improvement since a 3-0 loss on Oct. 10 to the Bearcats. 
“I was really proud how [the] team battled,” Brown said. “We had opportunities to take games 1 and 2, and put our­selves in great position com­pared to last time we played. We were markedly better, and I was proud of improvement over the season.” 
Notre Dame concludes its season on Nov. 26, when the team heads to California to take on Long Beach State. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 




Monday, November 22, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, November 22, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Toppling the Tar Heels 
Irish take down No. 1 seed North Carolina 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
They did it again. Facing top-seeded North Carolina in the third round of the NCAA Championship, the Irish disman­tled the Tarheels 4-1 to advance to the quarterfinals. 
“It was huge,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “The girls were unbelievably good and focused and ready to play. I don’t know that I’ve had a team that has been so prepared to play North Carolina. They carried out every game plan that we had going in, executed everything as well as we could have asked.” 
Saturday’s victory marked the third time Notre Dame has elimi­nated the Tarheels from the tour­nament at Chapel Hill, N.C., the most recent coming in a 3-2 win in the round-of-16 in 2007. Waldrum credits his team’s confi­dence and desire to beat a rival 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 

Irish senior midfelder Rose Augustin delivers a cross during Notre Dame’s 4-0 victory over USC see WALDRUM/page 14 Nov. 14. Notre Dame took down No. 1 North Carolina, 4-1, Sunday in Chapel Hill. 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Maine next onschedule for Irish 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough is averaging 20 points per game for the Irish this season, and he has led the team in scoring in each of its first three games. Despite that, Irish coach Mike Brey said he is not concerned about what will happen to the offense if Hansbrough has an off game as Notre Dame prepares to take on Maine tonight. 
“I’m not [worried about the offensive production],” Brey said. “I feel that we’ll have a little by committee, and that we’ll be able to read what is open. I think we have enough threats where dif­ferent guys can do that for us. I’m pleased with how [Hansbrough’s] letting the game come to himself, and he’s got to understand that he doesn’t need to force things. He just has to get back and 
see BREY/page 14 
BARAKA BOUTS 

Boxers pair up, compete in bouts after months of training 
Coffing in an aggressive show-decision. to stop the match briefly. beginning, the intensity picked 
ing. She threw some punches Although Malley had some up in the third round as both By LUCIE GORDON, IAN early and gained control by the Shayna “Foe” Sura def. Megan bright spots in the match, Sura sides were able to get some GARRAHY, SAM GANS, end of the first round. “Million Dollar” Malley was able to capture the split-solid punches in. DAVID KENNEY, CONOR Coffing put up the best fight The match was even in the decision victory. Although Wilson had some of KELLY, JACK YUSKO, and she could, but became worn first round, but as it progressed, her strongest punches in the ADAM LLORENS down by the end of the second Sura took control with multiple Shannon “The Collider” third round, it was not enough Sports Writers round. shots at the head. Sura’s Hughes def. Alexa “The Cuban to secure a win, and Hughes 
In the third round, Gaskill aggressiveness in the second Missile” Wilson won the match unanimously. Marissa “The Ginger took over as Coffing struggled to and third rounds made the dif-Hughes gained control at the Juggernaut” Gaskill def. defend herself. She fell into the ference. beginning of the match and kept M.J. “Wolverine” Durkin def. Hayley “The Haylestorm” ropes at one point and landed Sura caught Malley on her it until the final bell sounded. Kristen “The Durbinator” Coffing few punches for the remainder toes often in the last round, and While Hughes controlled the Durbin 
From the start of the match to of the match. delivered a number of relentless tempo and delivered many stag-the final bell, Gaskill dominated Gaskill won in a unanimous headshots, causing the referee gering blows to Wilson in the see BARAKA/page 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 

ND falls to Dartmouth in OT 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Dartmouth forward Andrew Olsen scored the game-win­ning goal nine minutes into overtime in Sunday’s second round game of the NCAA tour­nament and brought Notre Dame’s 2010 season to a close with a 2-1 loss to the Big Green at Alumni Stadium. 
“I am so disappointed, espe­cially for our seniors because this is exactly the way we felt a year ago at Northwestern,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “You come out of a game you thought you maybe deserved some more out of, and we were on the wrong side of it.” 
The rainy, windy weather proved to be an obstacle for 
see CLARK/page 11 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
UCLA, Kentucky take down Notre Dame 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 

After opening the season with blowout victories over New Hampshire and Morehead State, Notre Dame has dropped consecutive matches by narrow margins against two ranked oppo­nents. 
After falling to No. 15 UCLA last Thursday 86-83 in double overtime, the No. 12 Irish never established a rhythm against No. 9 Kentucky, falling 81-76 Sunday in Memorial Coliseum. 
Junior guard Natalie Novosel led the Irish (2-2) on offense, finishing with 21 points to go along with eight rebounds and three assists. Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins chipped in 18 points, and freshman Natalie 
Achonwa  grabbed  13  
rebounds.  
Notre  Dame  bested  the  

Wildcats (3-0) on the boards by a margin of 51-35, but was unable to contain Kentucky’s Victoria Dunlap, an explosive forward and the 2009-10 SEC Player of the Year. Dunlap scored 24 points and con­tributed 14 rebounds, leading the Wildcats on both ends of the floor. 
Despite cutting the lead to one possession multiple times 
see IRISH/page 11 







