the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
Volume 44 : Issue 103 MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2010 ndsmcobserver.com 


ND students in Chile unharmed in earthquake 
University faculty, ACE graduate students, Congregation of Holy Cross members also safe after 8.8-magnitude quake strikes Saturday morning 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Junior Cari Pick was chatting with friends online early Saturday morning in Santiago, Chile, when the Internet cut out and her building began to sway. 
“My initial reaction was to stare out the window at nearby buildings to see if any of them were collapsing. Luckily, they were not,” Pick said of Saturday’s earthquake. “My host mother told me in Spanish that the safest place to stay was inside our building, which had been built to withstand earth­quakes.” 
Pick is one of 19 undergradu­ate students studying abroad in the South American country for the spring semester. The University confirmed Saturday that all Notre Dame students and faculty in Chile are safe after an 8.8-magnitude earthquake struck the country. 
All the students studying in Chile live with host families, and after the earthquake, Pick said she immediately tried to reach other students. 
“I spent the next few hours frantically trying to contact other students to make sure they were alright as well,” she said. “The phone systems are unreliable right now.” 
The University also reported that five graduate students par­ticipating in the Alliance for Catholic Education program, three staff members and mem­bers of the Congregation of Holy Cross working in Chile are safe. 
“For the second time this semester, we are immensely grateful that Notre Dame stu­dents, faculty and staff are safe in the wake of a devastating nat­ural disaster,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said in a press release. “As was the case last month for Haitians after an earthquake hit that nation, the prayers of the Notre Dame family now are with the people of Chile.” 
The University offers most of 
see CHILE/page 4 




Robinson Center celebrates ninth anniversary 

By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
For the past nine years, Notre Dame faculty, staff and students as well as members of the South Bend community have volun­teered their time to better their lives of local children at the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
The Center, an off-campus educational initiative sponsored by the University, celebrated its ninth anniversary Friday after­noon and gave thanks to the support of its volunteers. 
Speakers at the event included University President Fr. John Jenkins and South Bend Mayor Steve Luecke. 
Jay Caponigro, the founding director of the RCLC, was offi­cially appointed to the position of the Director of Community Engagement for the University, a promotion effective March 1. 
No announcements about his replacement at the RCLC have been made yet. 
Friday’s festivities also includ­ed the recognition of various community volunteers and Notre Dame faculty and students who work to further the Center’s ven­tures. 
In addition, the James Kapsa Take Ten Award was presented to a local school leader and awards were given to the top 12 schools in the Take Ten poster design contest. 
The Take Ten Program is an outreach project of the Robinson Community Learning Center encouraging students to “Talk it out, Walk it out and Wait it Out” 
see CENTER/page 6 


Registration for Basilica weddings during 2011 year begins 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Today, the first day couples can register for weddings at the Sacred Heart Basilica for the 2011 year, is perhaps one of the reasons the “ring by spring ” mentality per ­vades for many a Notre Dame senior. 
According to Amy Huber, Wedding and Baptism Coordinator of the Basilica, current students, alumni, University administrators and Sacred Heart parish ­ioners are all eligible to sign up for weddings at the Basilica beginning today by calling in. 
The process is competitive, as desirable spots fill quickly as the day progresses. 
“You just have to be patient and keep redialing until you get through, ” Huber said. “I probably take about 70-80 reservations [on call day].” 
Huber said the Basilica accommodates only a certain number of wedding reserva­tions each year, and that number is limited by certain days on which wedding cere­monies are disallowed. 
“There are a little over 100 dates for 2011 to give out and the summer afternoon dates always go first as expected, ” she said. “[Weddings are not held] on holiday weekends, JPW, Alumni Weekend, final vows weekend, ordination week­end, Freshman Orientation weekend and Commencement weekend.” 
The fee for use of the Basilica is $750, and Huber said that figure includes not just the ceremony itself. 
“It also provides a wedding 
see WEDDINGS/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC’s Shea receives award page 3  Bengal Bouts finals page 20  Glenn Beck’s path to power page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, March 1, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Thank you 
I would like to begin my term as Editor­in-Chief today by thanking those who make The Observer’s publication possible. 
That starts with you, our readers. Thank you for holding us to the high jour­nalistic standards to which we aspire, and thank you for pointing out our mistakes and for praising our suc­cesses. 
We truly enjoy hearing from you and sincerely appreciate your Matt Gamber constructive feed­back. I look forward to making some Editor-in-Chief 

improvements, especially on our Web site, that should make your experiences with The Observer more valuable and enjoyable. 
To our outgoing senior Editorial Board members, thank you for showing me how to handle computer glitches, tight dead­lines and tough decisions with integrity, professionalism and class. 
And thank you for having the faith and confidence in me to lead the newspaper. 
Regardless of what you say in the office at 3 a.m., I know you all care for me deeply. 
To our dedicated, talented staff, thank you for all your continued hard work. I look forward to working with you over the next year as we build upon The Observer’s strong tradition. Thank you for your ambition, energy and willingness to blast Taylor Swift in the office — all three help to keep us going. 
It would be both cliché and misleading to say we all enjoy every single minute we spend at The Observer. When you work in a windowless office in the basement of South Dining Hall from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. once a week, there are going to be moments when you wonder just what you got yourself into. 
But the truth is, I know why I do it. 
Working for The Observer has shaped my Notre Dame experience by challenging me to become not only a better writer and reporter, but also a better student, team­mate, communicator and leader. Being a part of a staff of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students with an incredible range of talents, interests and personalities has refined my talents, expanded my interests and stretched my personality. And cover­ing major campus stories and events has given me a perspective and a voice most students aren’t as fortunate to have. 
I have never quite understood why sen­ior editors say they still get a rush watch­ing their classmates pick up The Observer every morning. 
But as I power-walked my way across campus Friday morning, late for a meet­ing on three hours of sleep after my first night overseeing the paper’s entire pro­duction, I finally understood. 
There’s no helpless feeling quite like being alone in the office at 4 a.m., staring at an outdated, uncooperative computer that is the last thing standing between you and a queen-sized bed. 
But there’s also no feeling of pride, accomplishment and relief like waking up and seeing the paper circulating around campus every Monday through Friday. 
That’s why we do what we do. Thanks. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: DO YOU BELIEVE IN MA IC? 






Jordan Matulis  Carleigh Moore  Johanna Kirsch  Courtney Boise  Steve Santay  
sophomore  sophomore  senior  senior  junior  
Howard  Howard  McGlinn  McGlinn  Alumni  
“Yes. In a young  “Of course  “Yes because I  “Oh, oh, oh,  “Yes. I can move  
girl’s heart.”  because David  want to ride on  it’s magic you  objects with my  
Blaine can  the Magic  know ... never  mind.”  
really levitate!”  School Bus!”  believe it’s  

not so.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Irish hockey coach Jeff Jackson hugs senior alternate captain Kevin Deeth after Notre Dame’s win over Michigan Saturday night, when the team celebrated Senior Night. 
OFFBEAT 

Drunk mom allegedly runs through school with sword 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. — Police said the mother of an elementary school stu­dent drank a 40 ounce bottle of malt liquor before brandishing a sword in her child’s school. The woman, 32, apparently intended to confront the parents of another child who had been in a spitting match with her child the previous day. 
According to court records, an employee at Riverview Elementary School in Memphis report­ed a drunk woman armed with a sword was running through the halls of the school and had threatened to cut her. 
Officers who arrived on the scene retrieved a black cane that concealed the blade. 
Ala. man attacked with Worcestershire sauce bottle 
FLORENCE, Ala. — Police said a 38-year-old man was charged with beating another man at a motel with a sauce bottle and a fire extinguisher. Police said the suspect was being held at the Lauderdale County Jail on $6,000 bond on charges he attacked a 43-year-old man who was returning to his motel room. 
Officers said that as the man opened the door to his room Wednesday night, the suspect hit him on the head with a bottle of Worcestershire sauce, then grabbed a fire extin­guisher and hit him on the head and face. 
Officials at Eliza Coffee Memorial Hospital said the victim was treated in the emergency room and admitted to the hospital, where he was listed in good condition. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

IN BRIEF 
The Hesburgh Library will be open 24-hours a day this week for midterms. Good luck. 
An exhibit called “Markings by Koo Kyung Sook” will be on display today from 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art’s Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery. Admission is free. 
Daily Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today. 
The women’s basketball team will play Connecticut today at 7 
p.m. at the Purcell Pavillion at the Joyce Center. Ticket infor­mation is available at 631-7356. 
The men’s basketball team will play Connecticut Wednesday at 7 p.m. at the Purcell Pavillion at the Joyce Center. Ticket information is available at 631-7356. 
The registration for intramu­ral spring sports begins Thursday at 8 a.m. The dead­line is March 18. More informa­tion is available at RecSport’s Web site. 
The women’s tennis team will play Indiana Friday at 3 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Center. Admission is free. 
The Children’s Theater will perform Tomie dePaola’s “Strega Nona” Friday at the Decio Mainstage of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Ticket information is available online at performingarts.nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


Atlanta 54 / 37 Boston 40 / 32 Chicago 35 / 28 Denver 36 / 29 Houston 54 / 40 Los Angeles 68 / 50 Minneapolis 35 / 17 New York 43 / 33 Philadelphia 45 / 32 Phoenix 71 / 52 Seattle 63 / 47 St. Louis 42 / 28 Tampa 68 / 53 Washington 50 / 34 
Monday, March 1, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CEO discusses changes in media 
SMC hall director 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
As expansion of the Internet over the past decade contin­ues to revolutionize American lives, the ramifications for the news and communication business are especially pro­found. 
This changing media land­scape was the main focus of a lecture Friday by Harris Diamond, CEO of Weber Shandwick and the Constituency Management Group. 
The lecture, titled “The Evolving Media and Its Consequences for American Society,” was held in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
The lecture and discussion, part of Mendoza’s “Ten Years Hence” speaker series, pro­vided an insider’s perspective on objective news, television and print media. 
Objective news, Diamond said, is again turning to parti­san and biased news sources both online and in television. 
“Objective journalism is a reality that has only existed since the latter part of the 20th century,” he said. 
“[Prior to that], newspapers were very much partisan organs,” he said. “They gave 
their readers what they wanted to hear.” 
The emer­gence of polar­ized media out­lets again in recent years, Diamond said, is “in many respects noth­ing more than a back to the future moment.” 
Diamond rec­ognized the 

Diamond said the media how the company initially has “democratized the news” reacted and what the compa­and now have “increased ny did for the people affected. 
Sheareceivesaward 

quantity, decreased quality.” The massive expansion of “In the age of information the Internet also poses a 
it’s hard to say too much infor­mation is a bad thing,” Diamond said. 
He said this “democratiza­tion” can be beneficial, but also has adverse effects on the way people inform themselves. 
“In this world of high-speed technology, lies 

“Objective journalism is a reality that has only existed for the latter part of the 20th century.” 
Harris Diamond CEO Weber Shandwick and the Constituency Management Group 
major threat to 
By ALICIA SMITH 
television net-
News Writer 
works and broadcasters, especially with 
Responsible for supervising 10 regards to 
resident advisors (RAs) and news. 
about 264 residents, McCandless “The main-
Hall and Opus Hall director Kady stream media 
Shea received the Advisor of the is going to 
Year award for her work with struggle,” he 
the College Residence Hall said. “In 10 
Association (RHA). years I don’t 
Shea has not only managed to believe there 
keep order in the residence will be a 30­
halls, but has helped make some minute news at 
vast improvements to the quality night. It’s not 
of life on Saint Mary’s campus. 
are refuted immediately,” Diamond said. 
However, he said, the ten­dency of “slivers of truth” to spread rapidly is problematic. 
“We manufacture contro­versies just so we can fill up an hour of news,” he said. 
These slivers of truth, Diamond said, can spread at the detriment of businesses especially. 
“An accusation made against a company … is given full publicity … without a full understanding or context,” he said. 
Companies today, he said, must put more resources into 
“The traditional sources [of information] are going to slowly disappear.” 
Harris Diamond CEO Weber Shandwick and the Constituency Management Group 
dealing with media issues. 
“The world right now is fascinated by transparency,” Diamond said. “What most people really want is a free flow of infor­mation and answers to their ques­tions.” 
In the face of corporate con­troversy, 
immense effect the accessibil-Diamond said three issues ity of the Internet has had on companies face are whether media becoming more biased. the problem has been fixed, term surviving.” 

Indiana “I always knew that I college adminis-
The problem, he said, is 
Residence Hall wanted to help people trator who facili­

being fueled in part by news-
Organization tated the class 
in some capacity.” 

papers themselves. 
Conference on and she actually 
“There is no business model 
Feb. 6. worked in 

right now … for newspapers 
Shea and Kady Shea Residence Life 

to stay in their current form,” 
LeMans Hall director and kind of 

he said. “They’re putting 
director Leslie opened my eyes 
McCandless and Opus

their content on the Web for 
Robinson co-to Residence 
Halls 
has worked to help improve RA training as well as the room selection process. 
Shea is also responsible for keeping the Residence Life Web site up to date. 
“It’s a challenge, but I also find it very entertaining,” Shea said. “I try to have a positive look at it. Working with Residence Life and being a hall director, you come into work every day not knowing what to expect. It’s not the type of thing where you log onto a computer and start entering numbers all day.” 
Shea decided to become a hall director during her undergradu­ate studies at Simmons College in Boston. Shea said she origi­nally wanted to be a teacher. 
“I always knew that I wanted to help people in some capacity,” she said. “I had a first-year experience class where I had a 

the end of the world — it’s just the end of an era.” 
The outlook for print media, he said, is even grimmer. 
“The traditional sources [of information] are going to slowly disappear,” Diamond said. “I’m a pessimist — I don’t see newspapers long­
“[I really enjoy] getting to interact with students on a regu­lar basis, and getting to know them personally, what’s going on in their lives and just being able to help them as best I can with whatever is going on,” Shea said. 
The award was presented at the Life. That’s when 
I discovered that you can make a career out of this and you can do everything you love, work with students and get paid for it.” 
Shea said she enjoyed working as a hall director at Saint Mary’s. She has had a positive experi­ence with the RAs as well as the other residents in her halls. 
“I really enjoy working with first year students just because transitioning into college is not always easy and being able to help them with that transition is pretty awesome, and being able to see them grow through out the year,” Shea said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at  asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

free. … Newspapers are destroying themselves.” 
Despite the grim message, Diamond insisted that media itself is not on the decline. 
He said students, especially seniors, should not be dis­couraged by the changing state of the media industry. 
“Obviously this year is going to be tough. … Companies are still going to be looking for people who understand the digital world — those oppor­tunities are only going to increase,” he said. “I wouldn’t confuse short term difficulties with long-term opportunities. They’re still there.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
advise RHA at the College. Shea was nominated by the members of RHA and was cho­
sen  by  the  directors  of  the  
Indiana  Residence  Hall  
Organization (IRHO).  

“The advisor of the year was pretty cool just because advising RHA is part of my job but its just one small piece of my job,” Shea said. “They nominated me for this award and the directorship of IRHO recognized my accom­plishment. That was pretty cool to receive that.” 
Shea began working at the College in August 2008. Since that time she has not only acted as a co-advisor for RHA, but as advisor for McCandless Hall Council as well. Additionally, she 


College bookstore holds fashion show 
By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Shaheen Bookstore held a fashion show Friday in the student center atri­um to promote the College’s new spring clothing line, featuring dif­ferent types of apparel including sweatpants, T-shirts and shorts. 
“We hold the fashion show to promote all the new clothes and get the student body involved,” freshman Katie Gutrich, mer­chandise and fashion show direc­tor, said. 
Gutrich, junior Sarah Schuchman and senior Lillian Reeves all served as merchandise and fashion show directors for the event. 
The three students were responsible for designing the line, finding models and advertising the event to students around campus. 
Gutrich said organizing the event was an undertaking for all involved. 
“We’ve been working on the line since fall semester,” Gutrich said. “We’ve advertised around campus using flyers and televi­sion.” 
Reeves said the new line fea­tures many bright colors for the spring and the clothes were cho­sen with the student body in mind. 
Around 100 new items of cloth­ing were shown in the show, and organizers estimated around 100 members of the College commu­nity were in attendance. 
There were 60 models in the show, including Saint Mary’s stu­dents, faculty and College President Carol Mooney. 
Onlookers appreciated the exhi­bition of the new College apparel. 
“The show was really fun,” freshman Dani Haydell, a student model, said. “All the girls were friendly and outgoing. I had a blast.” 
Models were able to keep the merchandise they modeled. 
The clothing items went on sale right after the show. All of the new clothing was 25 percent off over the weekend. 
“We hold the show to promote all of the new clothes and get the student body involved,” Gutrich said. “We just hope our efforts were rewarded.” 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 1, 2010 
Weddings 
continued from page 1 
coordinator who will attend the rehearsal and wedding and will assist in all the details of the wedding litur­gy,” she said. 
Couples who choose to marry in the Basilica tend to do so because of a senti­
m e n t a l  b o n d  w i t h  t h e  
University.  
“Most of the couples  met  

here, fell in love here and want to have the sacrament of marriage here,” Huber said. “The Basilica is one of the most beautiful places on campus and our staff at the Basilica and Campus Ministry are wonderful in supporting these couples in all aspects of their prepara­tion and liturgy.” 
Samantha Mainieri Roth, a 2009 graduate, married her husband Andrew Roth, a 2008 graduate, in the Basilica on Oct. 10, 2009. 
“The number one reason I wanted to get married at the basilica is because Andrew and I met at ND and it just symbolizes tradi­tion in every sense to us,” she said. “Just knowing how many previous ND grads got married there made it that much more special.” 
A former Notre Dame cheerleader, Mainieri Roth said the date of her wed­ding was especially difficult to come by. 
“I knew I wanted the bye-weekend of the football sea­son in October to be my wedding date because none 
of my cheerleader team ­mates would be out of town then since there wasn’t an away game and there are no weddings on weekends of home games,” she said. 
“By the time Andrew made it through the phone line, after about 500 attempts, we were given the 9 a.m. slot because that’s all there was left for that day.” 


According to the Basilica’s Web site, available wed ­dings times are Fridays at 1 
p.m. and 3 p.m. and Saturdays at 9 a.m., 11 a.m., 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
week now lay flattened and destroyed.” 
Chile 
continued from page 1 
the abroad program’s classes at the Pontificia Universidad Catolica, a Catholic university in Santiago. The students arrived in the Chilean capital Thursday after completing a three-week 
program in the rural Chilean  “One of the main  Press is report­ing the death toll  
town of Linares. They were origi­nally scheduled to start classes in  reasons many of us chose the Chile program is for its  to be more than 700 with nearly two million dis­placed by the  
the city Wednesday. Pick said the students have  Chilean Poverty and Development service class, and once we  earthquake. With unreliable communication, Pick said many  
been told, how- fnd out what we can  students are not  
ever, they will start classes March 8, and the  do to help, we will try to do whatever we  sure how the next few weeks will go, but many  
academic facili­ties are relatively  can to get involved.”  will try to get involved in the  
undamaged. Junior Alex Barker, an  Cari Pick junior  relief efforts if possible. “One of the  
Observer Sports  main  reasons  
writer participat­ many of us chose  

ing in the Chile study abroad the Chile program is for its program, said the students were Chilean Poverty and lucky they arrived in Santiago Development service class, and when they did. once we find out what we can do 
“The pre-program took place to help, we will try to do whatev­in a less developed area that was er we can to get involved,” she much closer to the epicenter [of said. the earthquake]. It took a great deal more damage,” he said. Contact John Cameron at “Buildings we were in just last jcamero2@nd.edu 
Barker said most students are fortunate to be living in buildings meant to withstand earthquakes. 
“Most of us live in some of the nicest parts of Santiago so the houses are much sturdier, and from what I’ve heard thus far, did not take any significant dam­
age,” he said. 
The Associated 


World & Nation 
Monday, March 1, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Australians bare all for photo shoot 
SYDNEY — About 5,200 naked people have embraced each other on the steps of Sydney’s iconic Opera House for a photo shoot by Spencer Tunick. 
Tunick, who is known for his nude group photos in public spaces, posed participants for more than an hour in a variety of posi­tions Monday. 
“It was difficult to get the straight partici­pants to embrace the gay participants and vice versa,” Tunick said. “So I was very happy that that last set up finally got done and everyone came together (in a) united, friendly kiss, a loving kiss in front of this great structure.” 
Dead fish stink up Rio lagoon 
RIO DE JANEIRO — Thousands of dead fish washed up on the shores of a popular beachside lagoon in Rio over the weekend, offending joggers’ olfactory senses and lead­ing the city to fight the stench with disinfec­tant. 
The official state news service Agencia Brasil said about 100 city employees work­ing full-time cleared nearly 80 tons of fish as of Sunday. There was no immediate estimate of how many died, but several species were involved. 
Rio’s environmental secretary speculated that increased levels of a harmful algae may be the immediate cause of the sudden die-off Friday. She told Globo’s G1 Web site that authorities were still investigating, but the problem was not affecting the fish anymore. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ebert partially regains voice 
CHICAGO — Film critic Roger Ebert says computer programmers have captured his voice from movie commentary tracks so he can type what he wants to say and listeners hear a voice that sounds like him. 
Ebert lost his ability to speak after surgery for cancer. He writes in Sunday’s Chicago Sun-Times that a Scottish company has helped him regain a voice his grandchildren can recognize. 
Ebert recorded commentaries for DVD movies before he lost his voice. A Scottish company called CereProc blended digital recordings of Ebert speaking to make his text-to-audio voice. 
Ebert writes that the voice will be heard predicting Oscar winners on a segment of “The Oprah Winfrey Show” airing Tuesday. 
He says he may be able to use the voice for radio and Webcasts. 
Man shot to death in mall 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — Anchorage police say a man taken into custody following a fatal shooting at a busy mall has been released, and they’re now looking for a man who may have been wearing a wig and fake mustache. 
Police just before 6:30 p.m. Saturday took a call that shots had been fired at the Dimond Center mall. They found 29-year-old Edwing Matos wounded outside a barber shop. He had been shot multiple times. 
Matos was rushed to a hospital, where he died. 
An off-duty Alaska State Trooper tackled a man fleeing the scene. Police say the man was was brought to Anchorage Police head­quarters for questioning and released. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man caught using shoe camera 
INDIANAPOLIS — Police arrested a Fort Wayne man after he allegedly used a cam­era in a shoe to look up women’s dresses at a shopping mall. 
The Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department says 40-year-old David Delagrange approached several women at Castleton Square Mall on Saturday and placed his foot under their dresses. 
Police say an off-duty officer found that Delagrange had a sophisticated recording system with a camera attached to his right shoe and video and audio controls in his pockets. 

Clinton heads to Latin America 
Secretary of State to visit post-quake Chile, four other countries in weeklong tour 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton’s weeklong, five-nation tour of Latin America is certain to focus on the earthquake in Chile while she also tries to build support for fresh penalties against Iran. 
Clinton will briefly visit Santiago, Chile’s capital, Tuesday morning. She had been scheduled to go to Chile late Monday for talks with Chilean President Michelle Bachelet and President-elect Sebastian Pinera, who takes office March 11. But that meeting has been canceled as Chile struggles to recover from the quake. 
Before Clinton left Washington on Sunday evening, she made clear she would show U.S. support for disaster rescue and recovery operations in Chile. 
“Our hemisphere comes together in times of crisis, and we will stand side-by­side with the people of Chile in this emergency,” Clinton said Saturday after President Barack Obama called Bachelet to offer assistance. 
The State Department issued a travel alert Sunday urging U.S. citizens to avoid nonessential travel to Chile. 
Clinton starts her trip in Uruguay at Monday’s inaugu­ration of the country’s new Argentina’s stance on Iran’s nuclear program. Clinton also will attend a president, ex-guerrilla Jose nuclear program, and Clinton Brazil, a voting member of meeting in Costa Rica of Mujica. Mujica’s election in will encourage Mujica and the Security Council, has regional foreign ministers November won praise from Fernandez to continue those been reluctant to additional that will focus on improving other left-leaning populist policies, U.S. officials said. penalties. Its leaders have economic conditions in the leaders in the region, includ-Fernandez may raise expressed a desire to hemisphere. She expects to ing Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez, Argentina’s dispute with improve relations with Iran, see outgoing President Oscar a perennial thorn in the side Britain over the Falkland and Lula plans to visit Tehran Arias, who brokered an of the U.S. who is cultivating Islands, but Clinton is not in May. accord that ended the politi­closer ties with Iran. expected to bring it up. “This Clinton hopes to win cal crisis in Honduras last 
In the Uruguayan capital of is a matter for Argentina and Brazil’s backing for sanctions year. Montevideo, Clinton will see for Britain and it’s not a mat-as well a commitment to Clinton will also meet with Mujica and Argentine ter for the United States to press Iran to comply with incoming Costa Rican President Cristina Fernandez. make a judgment on,” the top international demands to President Laura Chinchilla 
U.S. officials say she has no U.S. diplomat for the prove that its nuclear inten-before wrapping up her tour plans for separate meetings Americas, Arturo Valenzuela, tions are peaceful. in Guatemala on Friday. with other inauguration said Friday. “We will be telling our In Guatemala, Clinton will guests — for example, After her brief stop in Brazilian counterparts that meet a group of Central Chavez or other like-minded Santiago on Tuesday morn-we encourage them to American leaders, including leaders such as Ecuador’s ing, she heads to Brasilia, encourage Iran to regain the Honduran President Porfirio Rafael Correa or Bolivia’s Evo Brazil, for talks with trust of the international Lobo, who took over in late Morales. President Luiz Inacio Lula da community by fulfilling its January from an interim gov-
The Obama administration Silva, whose support the U.S. international obligations, ernment that had ousted has been pleased by is seeking for a new round of which we feel that they have leader Manuel Zelaya in a Uruguay’s contributions to U.N. Security Council penal-not fulfilled,” Valenzuela said coup last June, leading to a 
U.N. peacekeeping forces and ties against Iran over its before Clinton’s trip. political crisis. 


Storm leaves 200,000 without power 
poles that snapped during last week’s Kittery, Maine. Neighbors without that 
Associated Press 
storm. option have been stopping in for show-

PORTLAND, Maine — Nearly 200,000 Dozens of shelters provided warmth ers, warmth and cups of coffee. homes and businesses were still with-and food at fire departments, schools But with three utility poles still down out power Sunday as restoration efforts and other places. in front of his house and wires crossing continued days after a slow-moving Even after spending three nights at a his driveway, he wasn’t too confident storm battered the Northeast with shelter in New Paltz, N.Y., 28-year-old about getting power back anytime soon. heavy snow, rain and high winds. Keith Crum of Marlboro, N.Y., said he “I wouldn’t expect much before the 
More than 83,000 utility customers was understanding of the ongoing middle or the end of the week,” he said. still lacked electricity late Sunday after-power outage. He recently moved back Deep snow in New York has made it noon in New Hampshire, the hardest-to the area from South Carolina, where hard for people to get around. hit state. New York had about 87,000 he worked cutting trees away from “A lot of people cannot honestly get outages and Maine 23,000. power lines. out of their house and get to the shel-
At the peak of the storm, more than a “They’re trying to do the best they ters,” said John-Anthony Bruno, execu­million utility customers throughout the can with the power,” he said. “You got tive director of the Ulster County, N.Y., region had lost power. to take into account there are a lot of chapter of the American Red Cross. 
Hundreds of utility crews from as far lines down.” “A lot of people are resourceful,” he away as Michigan and Maryland con-Bryan Bush lost electricity Thursday, added. “If their neighbor has power, tinued removing trees that knocked but he used a power generator he owns they go down the street rather than down power lines and replacing utility to turn the lights back on in his home in shelter with us.” 
page 6 The Observer  NEWS Monday, March 1, 2010 
Collegesenlistparentstostopdrinking 
Associated Press 
At Virginia Tech, where tail­gating and raucous apartment complex parties are time-hon­ored rituals, university offi­cials are turning increasingly to Mom and Dad to curb prob­lem underage drinking. 
This semester, the school in Blacksburg, Va., began notify­ing parents when their under­21 students are found guilty of even minor alcohol viola­tions such as getting caught with a beer in a dorm room. 
Although it’s common for colleges to alert parents of major alcohol offenses — or when a student faces suspen­sion — Virginia Tech is part of a small but growing number sending letters home on minor ones. 
The debate about how much to involve parents in such cases is a balancing act for colleges and universities. Officials want to hold young adults accountable as they venture out on their own, are well aware that drinking is part of the college experience, and also recognize potential allies in a generation of hands-on parents who can help when things go too far. 
“I think it helps students 
open up to parents,” said Steven Clarke, director of Virginia Tech’s College Alcohol Abuse Prevention Center. “And parents can be helpful in setting boundaries students might need.” 
The beefed -up parental notification policy is part of a broader strategy that includes alcohol-education classes and a “party positive” program that encourages responsible drinking. 
The student reaction to the policy change, not surprising­ly, has been less than enthusi­astic. 
“If you have one beer in the dorm and you get caught, I don’t feel like parents should be notified,” said Erik Pryslak, a junior engineering major. “Now that we’re all in college, we’re all adults. It’s kind of your responsibility to take care of yourself. If you want to make your parents aware you’re about to be kicked out of school, then it’s on you.” 
Studies show that students who say their parents would disapprove of them drinking are less likely to drink heavily once they get to college, said Toben Nelson, an assistant professor at the University of Minnesota School of Public Health who has studied cam­pus drinking. 
At Virginia Tech, the school has operated on a “three strikes” system for years: Students get one strike for a minor alcohol violation and two for a major one — things like getting a DUI or vomiting all over a residence hall bath­room. Three strikes and a stu­dent is suspended for at least one semester. 
After a spate of alcohol-related deaths on college campuses, Congress in the late 1990s changed student privacy laws to lower barriers to parental notification in cases involving students under 21. 
Schools took a wide array of approaches in response. Virginia Tech started notifying parents of under-21 students after major alcohol offenses or when a student had accu­mulated two strikes with two minor ones. 
But some parents com ­plained that because they had not been notified of minor 
offenses, they were in the dark until a student was sud­denly facing suspension, said Edward Spencer, Virginia Tech’s vice president for stu­
de n t  a f f a i r s .  H e n ce  t h e  
c h a n g e  th i s  s e m e s t e r  — a  
m o ve  S p e n c e r  s ay s  a l s o  
reflects changing times.  

Parents of Generation X stu­dents were often reluctant to get involved when the school invoked an emergency clause in privacy laws and alerted them of alcohol problems, he said. 
“The response would be, ‘You know, I’m leaving on a cruise. I’m going to a class reunion.’” 
But today, parents of millen­nials tend to be tethered by cell phone to children who studies show often idolize their parents — so it makes sense to go a step further in parental involvement, he said. 
“We’d like to strike a happy medium,” Spencer said. 
Center 
continued from page 1 
before taking action. 
The Center lists the mission statement of its Take Ten Program as one working “to promote choices and strategies 
that cultivate nonviolent communi ­ties.” 
Two Notre Dame sen­iors, Jarred Carter and Austin Dwyer, were recog­nized for their service within the center at the celebration. 
“We pretty much have an occupa­tion where we are able unteer service at the Center. 
Members of the John Adams High School Jazz Band provid­ed musical entertainment to guests, mainly consisting of parents of the students and elderly members of the com­munity, Carter said. 
Each semester over 250 Notre Dame students volun­
“We pretty much have an occupation where we are able to help kids, play with them, tutor them and also give them advice about the world and guide them in their future endeavors.” 
Jarred Carter senior 
teer at the Center. 
In a recent press release about his new promotion, Caponigro said he would contin­ue to work to improve Notre Dame’s presence in South Bend and build rela­tionships with both community leaders and ordi­nary citizens. He also expressed hope that these partnerships 
to help kids, play with them, tutor them and also give them advice about the world and guide them in their future endeavors,” Carter said about his two and a half years of vol-would last, sustain, and grow because they are the “founda­tion of the Robinson Center.” 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 




The Observer 

Business
Monday, March 1, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
EU finance chief travels to Athens 
BRUSSELS — The EU’s financial affairs chief is traveling to Athens to hold discussions with Greek officials on their country’s debt crisis and efforts to enact painful austerity measures to curb public spending. 
EU Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn will have talks Monday in the Greek capital with, among others, Deputy Premier Theodorus Pangalos, Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou and George Provopoulos, the governor of the Bank of Greece, the European Commission said Saturday. 
His visit follows days of hectic international negotiations. 
On Friday, Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou held talks with the head of Germany’s biggest bank and President Barack Obama discussed Greece with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Prime Minister Gordon Brown via video conference. 
Greece’s EU partners have said they will not toss Greece a financial lifeline. 
Rehn’s visit is designed to impress upon Athens that its partners want to see quick, credible steps to put Greece’s finances in order. The country’s budget deficit has ballooned to almost 13 percent of gross domestic product, more than four times the ceiling set by the euro’s sound finances rules. 
Topeka aims to be Google test site 
TOPEKA, Kan. — A campaign to make Topeka a test site for a new, ultrafast Internet service is gathering speed. 
Google Inc. announced plans Feb. 10 to build and test new high-speed broadband networks in one or more places around the country. The company says the system of fiber-optic cables would deliver Internet connections 100 times faster than most systems now available. 
Over the past week, Topeka city officials have announced they’re completing Google’s request for information from potential trial communi­ties. The City Council has indicated that it’s behind the effort. 
And a group called “Think Big Topeka” is campaigning to build community and govern­ment support. 
Google has given communities a March 26 deadline to submit the completed requests for information. 

JFK runway closed for repairs 
Repavement of airport’s largest landing strip will cause delays, higher ticket prices 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — One run­way, a whole lot of problems. 
The main runway at New York’s John F. Kennedy International will be closed for four months starting March 1. Millions of travel­ers will experience delays — including some not flying anywhere near the Big Apple. 
With about one-third of JFK’s traffic and half of its departures being diverted to three smaller runways, planes will wait on longer lines on the ground for take­offs and in the air for land­ings. Delays at one of the nation’s largest airports will ripple to cities across the U.S., including Los Angeles, San Francisco and Orlando. 
Passengers using JFK also face another headache — higher ticket prices. JetBlue, American, Delta and other airlines have cut their sched­ules by about 10 percent for the shutdown period. They can raise prices because there will be a smaller num­ber of seats to meet demand. 
JFK’s Bay Runway, at 14,572 feet, is one of the longest commercial runways in the world. It’s a backup landing spot for the space shuttle, which has its next mission in April. The runway is being repaved with con-in on-time performance, Sammartino also says JFK tends to avoid the rush crete instead of less-durable according to the Department officials have added new taxi hours at JFK. And it has asphalt and widened to of Transportation. A delay at ways at angles that allow fewer connecting flights, accommodate today’s bigger JFK, especially one early in planes to go from terminal to which push delays across planes. the morning, can push back takeoff more quickly. He the country. 
The project will affect at flights across the U.S. noted that the FAA and the Even if you avoid big least the first month of the The longest delays occur Port Authority of New York delays, you could face higher peak travel season, which at peak hours — from about and New Jersey, which are fares. George Hobica of officially starts on Memorial 8:30 to 9:30 a.m. ET and financing the $376 million Airfarewatchdog.com said Day. But the chosen four-between 5:30 and 6:30 p.m. project, began planning the some fares are up signifi­month period was picked The airlines and the air-shutdown in early 2009. cantly for the March-June because it’s the driest in the port are making adjust-JetBlue, the biggest carrier period. For example, the New York area, making ments. Besides cutting at the airport, said it expects lowest published fares for weather-related construction flights, airlines are adding some “operational chal-flights between JFK and Los delays less likely. Of course, time into their schedules. So lenges,” but that its reduced Angeles International prompt completion isn’t cer-although flights may take flight schedule should help Airport through June 20 tain. A similar runway longer, more won’t necessar-alleviate congestion. range between $278 and repair in Minneapolis last ily be considered late. Still, However, for passengers $298 roundtrip. That’s up year created thousands of Mike Sammartino of the on network carriers like from $198 to $218 recently. delays when it was slowed Federal Aviation Delta and American the Delays and higher fares will by unseasonably wet weath-Administration expects delays will likely be worse, affect Los Angeles travelers er. delays at JFK will be about said Lance Sherry, executive the most because the city is 
JFK is already one of the 50 minutes during peak director for the Center for the most popular domestic nation’s most delay-plagued times and 29 minutes on Air Transportation Systems destination from JFK, fol-airports. It ranked 28th out average — similar to busy Research at George Mason lowed by San Francisco and of 31 major airports in 2009 summer days. University. JetBlue already Orlando. 


Maple syrup hobby grows into business 
Associated Press his house. He’s added vacuum-packed The number of backyard producers 
lines that carry the sap from the trees to has been growing every year for the last 

IRA, Vt. — Eric May wasn’t too keen a holding tank and he’s built a wooden decade but in the last two years — since on the taste of real maple syrup when he sugar shack where he and his teenage a shortage of syrup caused a spike in first moved to Vermont but he tapped son spend long late winter nights boiling. prices — more and more are getting into some trees anyway, borrowing buckets He’s invested several thousand dollars, it for the first time, he said. from neighboring farmers. After boiling sells the syrup by word of mouth and “It appears there’s no lack of market the sap for 18 hours in a pot over an hopes to make a little profit this year. for the syrup and the bulk price is high outside fire, he produced his first quart. May is one of a growing number of so you don’t even have to worry about Then he was hooked. hobby sugarmakers scattered around marketing it yourself. ... there is some 
“I thought it was the cat’s meow,” said the hills and muddy dirt roads of north-money there and of course with the May, 45. “Because it boiled. You take this ern New England, where clouds of economy what it is, people, if they have liquid coming out of a tree that you think steam rise from sugar shacks each a resource for it, they are going to use it is just water but you can taste the sweet-February and March. to try to make some money,” he said. ness in it, you just boil it down then all of “We’ve just seen a tremendous The average retail price is about $48 a a sudden after hours, you’ve got maple increase in people with a few maples gallon, Marckres said. syrup. that want to produce,” said Henry Syrup produced for sale must be grad-
Since that first year, his backyard sug-Marckres, a maple specialist with the ed for color, clarity, density and flavor — aring operation has grown from 20 taps Vermont Agency of Agriculture, who and be labeled. State inspectors can visit 13 years ago, to 50 the next, then 300 estimates the state has 2,000 small any sugar shack that sells syrup to test and 800 this year on the hillside behind maple producers. the product. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, March 1, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
Is democracy liberal? 

George W. Bush liked to talk about democracy and its many virtues. He even went so far as to make promoting democracy a central component of American foreign policy. I mention this because on March 7, Iraq will finally 
James Napier
hold the elections that had originally 
Demarcating
been scheduled for 
Democracy
Jan. 15. 

Contemplating the many issues at stake in this elec­tion, I began to wonder if democracy is actually all that great. This is not to say Iraq’s nascent democracy is hope­less — if anything, the past few months have shown Iraq has and will have rough patches but can work through its issues in a legal and productive manner (though there are many prob­lems still to work out). Rather, my question should be seen more simply as investigating whether there are virtues inherent in democracy. 
Often, we attach high-minded ideals of freedom of speech, human rights and other liberal ideas with democra­cy. In reality, these are concepts that are not integral to democracy but to liberal democracies like the United States and Great Britain. A democracy does not fundamentally ensure any rights, as a democratic government is merely one which is elected by the general populace — or perhaps a por­tion of the populace. Democracy can encourage political awareness amongst the populace which in turn can encourage freedom of speech and other liberal ideas. However, there is no guarantee that this will happen. 
History abounds with ill-liberal democracies and democratically-elect­ed governments destroying the very constitutions which allowed them to be elected in the first place. The most famous case occurred in Germany in 1932 and we all know how that turned out. Though Hitler never gained a majority vote, his rise to power illus­trates how a democratic government can be manipulated into a dictator­ship. Other, more recent cases are Russia and Venezuela. Neither country is overtly authoritarian nor threaten­ing to become so. However, neither country is exactly full of liberalism and free ideas. In Russia, there is little question Vladimir Putin is running the show. Also, given the many reporters killed in Russia over the past several years, I would not recommend anyone interested in pursuing a journalism career move to Russia. On the other hand, Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez was very much legally elected and also very much abuses his power to stran­gle any opposition. 
The point here is that casting votes does nothing to secure freedoms. If the above cases are unconvincing, just look at Hamas’ 2006 election in the Gaza Strip. The group’s entire platform is opposed to anything even approach­ing liberal ideas. And their actions are nothing short of atrocious. When living in Egypt, I met a young Palestinian who was captured and tortured by Hamas on three separate occasions within a two-year time span. At that time, he was living with family and going to school Gaza. The reason they tortured him? Money. 
Freedom is not secured by casting a vote but by fighting for it. This does not necessarily mean violence — very rarely, in fact. Rather, one fights for his or her rights through education, laws, interest groups and civil disobe­dience. The most important of these four ways to fight is education because an intelligent public is more difficult to dupe and less likely to easily give up their rights. Essentially, if one desires a liberal democracy, do not support democracy but liberal institutions — places that encourage a person to think for him or herself. Most particu­larly, this means promoting higher education. 
It is easy for a an elected official to destroy a country. It is much harder for a government to ignore or subvert a well-educated and politically aware public. And history has shown that education and political awareness often go hand in hand. Of course, whether promoting liberalism or democracy, the United States must make a conscious effort to work with and listen to its friends and allies. Perhaps this is the most important les­son as America’s politicians and pun­dits wait in anticipation for the results of Iraq’s March 7 elections. 
James Napier is a senior history major. He can be contacted at jnapier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Katie Peralta Lianna Irena Zajickova Brauweiler Kristin Durbin Sports Graphics Douglas Farmer Mary Cecilia Chris Masoud Mitsch Chris Allen 
Scene 
Alex Kilpatrick Jordan Gamble 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What is your favorite Winter Olympic event? 
Figure skating Hockey 

“I dreamed a thousand new paths. I 
woke and walked my old one.” 

Snowboarding 
Alpine skiing 
Chinese proverb 

Curling 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, March 1, 2010 page 9 
Black History Month: Where do we go from here? 
This column was written and approved by the executive board of the Black Student Association. Its members include Marvin Langston, Danielle Keller, Brittany Suggs, Raymond Umipig, Cedric Joint, Courtney Haynes, Christopher 
Marques Camp
Moore and Marques Camp. 
Guest Column 
Eighty-four years ago, African American historian Carter G. Woodson founded the initial “Negro History Week,” to be celebrated in the second week of February in remembrance and celebra­tion of the diverse and dynamic history of the African Diaspora in the United States. Until then this history had been sometimes buried, but most often omitted, from the standard tales of American history. Intended to coincide with the birthdays of two prominent figures in this history, Frederick Douglass and Abraham Lincoln, this one week has since become an entire month in celebration of the black communi­ty. 
During the past month members of the Black community at Notre Dame came together to create programming celebrating this history — we organized “Black Collar Workers,” a panel on labor and race in the United States; the Black Cultural Arts Council hosted their annual talent showcase Black Coffeehouse and Shades of Ebony brought acclaimed artist Dawn Okoro and well-known blogger Patrice Yursik to cam­pus for a workshop on beauty and self-image with African American high school students from South Bend, among other events. 

We would also like to take the time to mention a display in the Hesburgh Library that we constructed to memorialize the his­tory of Black people in the arts, entitled, “Negros, Coloreds, African Americans and Blacks in the Arts.” We have received quite a few criticisms and concerns about the title, many expressing that such emotional-ly-charged and culturally-incendiary lan­guage conjures up ghosts of slavery, racism and Jim Crow, and that it is not faithful to the kind of identity that future generations of the Black community hopes to build for itself. 
We would like to express, however, that we aimed for the title to make a broader point about the history of black citizens in the United States — a commentary on the perseverance and success of the Black com­munity throughout history. It is certainly ironic that racial categories throughout his­tory have seen dramatic significant linguis­tic transformations, perhaps as an attempt to reflect politically correct cultural sensibil­ities. Black citizens in the United States have been Negros, they have been Coloreds, they have been Niggers, they have been Afro-Americans, they have been African Americans, they have been Blacks. Yet throughout this roulette of cultural catego­rization the internal identity of the Black community has never changed. While the names changed, the community remained exactly the same — fighting for abolition, crusading for women’s suffrage, rewriting history books, redefining science, breaking sporting color lines, becoming President of the United States — this is a community that has been a prominent co-author to American history. 
The very idea of Black History Month has been criticized by some, especially within the Black community, of trivializing the importance of the contributions of Black Americans, of making them merely sup­porting actors in the story of American his­tory by setting aside a mere month for cele­bration (the shortest one, at that). Without Woodson’s deep passion and concern for history, however, the great and vast accom­plishments of the black community may still be buried in the footnotes of the great American story. Though these contributions from the Black community have risen to the consciousness of most Americans the past 84 years, we need to move far beyond thinking of Blacks as contributors in the abstract. They are as real, and as immedi­ate, as all of the hands of history — all races, all colors, all creeds. 
One might wonder why we say all this at the end, rather than the beginning, of Black History Month. We do so because February is only the beginning of the conversation, not the entirety of it. Though we as a nation, and as students of history, are light years ahead in our knowledge of Black his­tory compared to where we were in 1926, we still have chapters upon chapters to brush up on and volumes upon volumes to write. As the question of how we as a nation have got here becomes less of a primary focus, perhaps the most important question of all will come to the forefront: Where do we go from here? 
Marques Camp can be contacted at mcamp@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Concerning just wages 
Just a few thoughts on the discussion of just wages and the working poor taking place in The Observer right now. There are those on the one side who emphasize that the Church has no specific teaching on just what the exact figure of a just wage should be, and even that Christ himself doesn’t talk about just wages — His teaching is completely otherworldly. There are those on the other side who seem to think that somehow the Church suddenly woke up in 1891 to talk of economic justice when Leo XIII wrote “Rerum Novarum,” having lived in darkness and ignorance before the industrial revolution. Sometimes it seems that serendipitously that’s when the Church finally started to agree with the author. But let’s just consider a few All Stars of the Catholic tradition. 
For those who fixate on Christ not talking about just wages, will any of his disciples do? If not Jesus, might we consider his brother James, a servant of God and the Lord Jesus Christ? “Behold, the wages you withheld from the workers who harvested your fields are crying aloud; and the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord. You have lived on earth in luxury and pleasure; you have fattened your hearts for the day of slaughter.” And for those who think the Church was in the dark on all this until 1891, how about St. Basil, “The bread that you store up belongs to the hungry; the coat that lies in your chest belongs to the naked; the gold that you have hidden in the ground belongs to the poor.” St. Bernard says, “The poor cry ‘it is ours that you spend; what you stupidly spend is cruelly taken from us.’” Might St. Thomas Aquinas be relevant, the medieval figure Leo XIII held up for us as the exem­plar then and now of Catholic wisdom? “Goods which some have in abundance are owed by natural right to the sustenance of the poor; the Lord commands not only that a tenth part, but all that is superfluous be given to the poor.” Even the bête noir of the Galileo affair, St. Robert Bellarmine wrote, “If one should wish to argue that what is superfluous need not be given to the poor in strict justice, he still cannot deny that it should be done out of charity. However, it matters little whether one goes to hell for lack of justice or from lack of charity.” 

None of this settles whether a minimum wage ought to be nine bucks or 10, but it does establish a setting that ought to ani­mate the thoughts of all people of good will talking about just wages and places the burden of proof upon those who would argue for the minimum, not more. 
Perhaps the difficulty experienced by one and all in working together to address the issue of a just wage at Notre Dame for the working poor who clean our toilets, wash our halls and offices, cook our food and make our places of worship and study so beautiful, is that both antagonists argue in terms of what the minimum we must do is, like the rich young man of the Gospel who seemed to want to know the minimum he had to do to be good. Maybe we need to change the terms of the discussion and ask whether we are doing as much as we can, or whether in our desire for lower tuition and nicer dorms, or higher salaries and benefits for ourselves, we aren’t fattening ourselves up for the slaughter, denying the natural right of the poor and rushing head­long into Hell for want of justice or charity. Few of us will take the counsel of perfec­tion that Christ gives the rich young man, to sell all that we have and give it to the poor in order to follow Him. I complain as much as anyone, perhaps more, that I’m not being paid enough; and I’m not. Then I laugh, and make it to confession if I can. 
But perhaps you and I could do just a lit­tle bit more than the minimum, whatever it is. Whenever we do the minimum for the least of our brethren, we do the minimum for Him. So, whenever we think we have determined the minimum, let’s do more. With James, let’s give thanks for all good gifts around us sent from Heaven above; but let’s also ask whether there isn’t just a little bit of excess in those gifts that we could give to others in their wages, wages where justice and charity might meet and embrace. In that way perhaps we will give greater thanks for the working poor among us in whom we find the image of God absent in all these other gifts. 
The rich young man went away and wept, for he had many fine things. Does Notre Dame weep for the poor? Our Lady does. But do we? 
John O’Callaghan 
associate professor Department of Philosophy Feb. 25 
Use resources 
What saddens me about the current “conversation” in the Viewpoint section on poverty, wages and Notre Dame is not that many people don’t seem to understand the experience of living in poverty, but that they don’t realize that there are resources right here to help educate them on the issues. 
We don’t need to hear the stories of vulnerable people working on campus for evidence (although they have, in the past, written in — see Prudence Dorsey’s “Living wage now,” April 28, 2008). Journalists have interviewed the working poor, social scientists have studied them. 
If you’re interested in learning more about the working poor, the problems they face or how poverty affects every­one, check out books like Shipler’s “The Working Poor,” Shulman’s “The Betrayal of Work” or Rank’s “One Nation, Underprivileged.” Or take a course offered by Poverty Studies (see www.nd.edu/~poverty). 
We have more than Catholic doctrine or living examples to offer the debate. Use your resources to make informed calls for social change and justice (or to argue against them). 
Jessica L. Collett 
assistant professor Department of Sociology Feb. 25 
Catholic Social Teaching and economics 

Having read the Feb. 24 cluster of essays in support of Catholic Social Doctrine, I feel obliged to respond in some way. 
Let me clarify: I am not Catholic and nothing I am about to say is rooted in Catholic Doctrine. Actually, Catholic Social Doctrine is one of the noblest and most idealistic pieces of writing on economics. However, it is also one of the most ill-considered and unrealistic. 
I believe this not out of any sentimental attachment to the capitalist system, but out of the wholehearted belief that, in the long run, the incentives created by a free market serving well-educated and informed people create more general prosperity, and spread it more widely, than any other system ever conceived. 
I am not saying this out of selfishness, as I intend to enter the military, not the private sec­tor. I say this because every scrap of my intel­lect and compassion forces me to the realiza­tion that trying to pay people more than their productivity warrants only encourages them to work below their potential. This certainly makes them and us all worse off. Our educa­tional system needs reform to make this truly possible, but that is no excuse to enact vast entitlements and destroy untold wealth. 
Notre Dame may pay its workers however it much it feels is warranted by its faith. I am willing to accept the small increase in tuition to do this. However, noble or no, CST is not designed to deal with real human beings and shows no understanding of what makes our societies work. Its broad application would be so utterly irresponsible as to risk all material progress humanity has made in the past thou­sand years. 
David Loughery 
sophomore Keough Hall Feb. 25 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Monday, March  1, 2010 

President Obama’s meteoric rise to Commander in Chief of the United States was a unique moment in American poli­tics. His calm demeanor, level-headed oration, willingness to compromise and intellectual heft were combined in 
Nick Anderson 
a campaign prom­ising change. In the 15 months Scene Writer 

change has proven elusive, bipartisanship scarce and progressivism negligible. 
In a climate where only 25 percent of the voting population approves of the work being done by 
Congress, there will be a natural backlash against the party in power. The man lead­ing the dissent is Fox News pundit Glenn Beck. He’s a near perfect foil for Obama; he’s emotional to the point of crying on nation­al television, has less than a 
semester of college education and isn’t afraid to speak impulsively. For a politician, his trait set would be a death sentence, but as he has said himself, he’s an entertainer. More important than any other personal attribute, Beck is very smart. 
By the age of 13, Beck already had a job as a radio DJ. Immediately following high school, he went to work in radio. 
He was a natural 
as a morning shock jock in the same vein as Howard Stern. He found suc­cess in Houston and Baltimore and also 
whom he started a fam­
GlennBeck.com, says, “at the age of 30, Beck lost his passion for radio – and everything else.” Drinking and drug abuse took their toll, destroying his mar­riage and radio career, leaving him with a divorce and job in New Haven, Conn., a long way down from many of his earli­er stations. 
Having hit rock bottom, Beck began 

recovery. Alcoholics Anonymous helped him to quit both smoking marijuana and drinking and his second wife helped him find God through the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. Beck started over as a talk radio host in Tampa, Fla. On the radio waves, Beck experienced the beginning of a dramatic climb, tak­ing his station from 18th to first in the course of a year. 
Soon afterwards, Beck’s show went national and led to a talk show on CNN. Beck’s libertarian-flavored conservative views managed to mesh well with CNN’s typically liberal viewers, giving him the second highest-rated show on the net­work. Beck jumped ship and left to Fox News in late 2008, where his show has enjoyed even greater ratings, soundly beating the combined ratings of com­petitors CNN, MSNBC and HLN com­bined. 
Settled in at Fox News, Beck has quickly become one of the most despised men on cable. His tactics, whether moti­vated by ratings or principles, often leave much to be desired. He’s no stranger to slinging ludicrous accusa­tions under the guise of “just asking questions” nor is he afraid to question Obama’s birth, religion, racism or love of country. These underhanded methods have brought personal attacks against Beck, a boycott of his show by advertis­ers and roughly three million viewers every night. 
Beck comes off as a far right jester, pointing out the flaws of power but con­cerned with becoming a joke himself. While his detractors may wish for that fate, he’s become an increasingly power­ful force with each passing scandal. Beck has been instrumental in the pub­lic exposure of ACORN and just recently played a large role in the resignation of Van Jones, Obama’s director of the White House Council on Environmental Quality. Beck’s attacks on Jones are par­ticularly insightful. While his public and political motives centered on Jones’ involvement with STORM, a far-left political group, his underlying personal reasons concerned Jones’ suggested boycott of Beck’s program through Color of Change. This mixture of political savvy with personal vendetta has become hallmark of Beck’s style. 
For the past year, as Beck’s opponents grew, so did his following. In the infancy of his fame, Beck seemed destined to be a carbon copy of Rush Limbaugh, a clas­sification Beck would no doubt take with a bit of pride. Instead, it seems Beck has a newfound appreciation of his power. Although he’s abrasive, partisan and flat out wrong at times, Beck may be taking his role quite seriously. 
The first hint of this occurred early this year when Beck was asked to speak as headliner at the CPAC. Beck spoke directly to the disillusioned Republican and independent voter, candidly stating, “I don’t even know what they (Republicans) stand for anymore. And they’ve got to realize that they have a problem: ‘Hello, my name is the Republican Party, and I’ve got a problem. I’m addicted to spending and big government.’” 
It’s statements like these that have gained Beck both his audi­ence and ene­mies, and statements like those from his CPAC speech may mark a danger­ous step towards converting the former to the latter. Beck has also recently stepped off the party platform with respect to President Reagan (“I don’t think Reagan was a real Republican. He just maintained some shared values.”) and global warming (“You’d be an idiot not to notice the tem­perature change” and its origins with man). 


nanders5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 


By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
It seems rather odd to call this a music “rewind;” Empire of the Sun’s album “Walking on a Dream” was only released in 2009. While the album was by no means overlooked or forgotten, it was an album that should have gar­nered much more attention than it actually did, given its quality and the timing of the album’s release in the wake of MGMT’s massive success with a similar synth-pop sound. It is an album that at first will seem foreign to most but with just one listen will have anyone smiling and taking to the dance music, that music plays like candy — sweet, blissful and purely irresistible. 

Speaking of purely irresistible, Empire of the Sun’s second single, the angelic, atmospheric “We Are the People,” exemplifies the band’s dance-y warmth and ability to turn any subject into something coated with sunshine-y optimism. The song’s prelude, “Half Mast,” a three-minute tale of longing that foreshadows “We Are The People” and its heightened sense of loss, opens and continues in the most dream-like fashion of any song on the album, with its soaring synthesizer playing in the background. 
The album’s sole blemish, and a large maybe four) of the best tracks of any album released in 2009. 
There’s a journey on this record, one highlighted by seductive melodies, memorable falsettos and monster hooks that get in your head and have you dancing endlessly. That’s the great success here, and despite the band’s lackluster second half of songs, it’s the first half — especially from “Standing on a Shore” to “We Are the People” — that shows that Empire of the Sun is a band you definitely ought to know. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 

one at that, is that the latter half of the 10 tracks sound as though they’ve lost the airiness of the first five tracks. The album shifts gears at “Delta Bay,” but never really reverts back to the style that makes you want to put the first five songs on repeat and just listen to them over and over again. And that’s probably what you’ll do 
— forgo the last five songs in favor of five (or floor. 
Hailing from Sydney, Australia, and armed with a style of music that makes them awesome for the same reasons that MGMT are awesome, Empire of the Sun has a flare for the “out there” that gives the duo a Lady Gaga-like quality. They created a dance floor dream of a record on their debut album, “Walking on a Dream.” There’s a daring quality to every bit of the duo, Luke Steele and Nick Littlemore, that more than just creeps into their music. Much of their 10-track LP takes on a “love it or hate it” quality. The first half of the album, until the track “Delta Bay,” showcases something real spe­



page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, March 1, 2010 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish sweep Georgia, Virginia at Invitational 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish swept Virginia’s Cavalier Invitational this weekend with 51 hits in the two-day, four-game series. Notre Dame faced George Washington and Virginia Saturday and Sunday, coming out victorious in all four games. 
The Irish (8-4) hit 10 home runs over the course of the weekend and posted a .472 team batting average over the four games to put them at 8-4 for the season and on a seven-game win streak. 
Friday saw Notre Dame start off strong with 19 runs on 27 hits, including four players who hit home runs. Freshman utility play­er Amy Buntin hit her career first homer against George Washington in the first game. Sophomore catcher Kristina Wright also hit her first career home run, as she led the Irish with four RBI over the two games. 
Against George Washington, freshman pitcher Brittany O’Donnell struck out nine batters and allowed only one hit in four innings in the 8-0 win. Freshman pitcher Jackie Bowe came in for one inning to give O’Donnell a break and struck out another bat­ter. Notre Dame scored three runs off five hits in the first inning and continued at a steady pace for the rest of the game. Nine players combined for the Irish to have 13 hits to start off their day. 
In Friday’s second game, against Virginia, the Irish contin­ued their hot hitting to win 11-3. After trailing 1-0 in the top of the first inning, they came back to score four runs off of five hits. Notre Dame came out of the game with 14 hits to Virginia’s four. 
Junior pitcher Jody Valdivia struck out six and gave up three earned runs on four hits in five innings. Junior infielder Katie Fleury had a leadoff home run in the bottom of the fourth to put Notre Dame up by six. Senior infielder Christine Lux ended the game with a bases-loaded single to right field that brought in two Irish runs in the fifth of the only Irish hit of the inning. 
Success continued Saturday for Notre Dame as the Irish closed out the Invitational with another two-win day. Christine Lux and her sister, freshman infielder Kathryn Lux, each homered on the day. It was the senior’s 36th career homer, which tied a school record, and the freshman’s first career hit for the Irish. Their efforts led Notre Dame to win 12­0 over George Washington in five innings and 9-0 over Virginia. 
In Saturday’s second game, Valdivia gave up five hits while striking out four, getting out of bases-loaded dilemmas twice in the seven innings. Fleury led the Irish with three hits, including two doubles and a homer, and senior infielder Heather Johnson had a pair of home runs. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
OLYMPICS 
Crosby shines, U.S. falls 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Rest assured, Canada, the national honor is served. 
With a flick of the wrist from The Next One, Sidney Crosby, Canadians found Olympic redemption Sunday. 
The pall of a luger’s death, a series of embarrassing glitches, a first half so dismal the hosts conceded the medals race, a loss to the upstart Americans in a preliminary game. 
All but forgotten. 
Canada is the Olympic cham­pion in men’s hockey, and the whole country can finally cele­brate its Winter Games. 
Canada survived one of the greatest games in Olympic his­tory to beat the Americans 3-2 in overtime and cap the host country’s record gold rush in Vancouver. 
Crosby—hockey heir to Canada’s own Great One, Wayne Gretzky—won it when he whipped a shot past U.S. goalie Ryan Miller 7:40 into overtime after the U.S. had tied it with 24.4 seconds left in regu­lation. 
“It’s a pretty unbelievable thing. You know what? Every kid dreams of that opportunity,” Crosby said. “Being in Canada, that’s the opportunity of a life­time. You dream of that a thou­sand times growing up. For it to come true is amazing. 
“Our team worked so unbe­lievably hard,” Crosby said. “Today was really tough, espe­cially when they got a goal late in regulation. But we came back and got it in overtime. … To win it in overtime, here in Canada, it doesn’t get any better than that.” 
Canada’s collection of all-stars held off a young, desperate U.S. team that had beaten it a week ago and, after staging a furious comeback from down 2-0 on goals by Jonathan Toews and Corey Perry, almost beat the Canadians again. 
With Canada less than a minute away from celebrating the gold medal, Zach Parise— the son of a player who figured in Canada’s finest hockey moment—tied it with Miller off the ice for an extra attacker. 
The moment he scored, the groans of disappointed fans likely were heard from Vancouver to the Maritimes. But Crosby, scoreless the previous two games, brought back the cheers with his second post-reg­ulation game-winner of the tournament, a shot from the left circle that Miller was helpless to stop. He also beat Switzerland in a shootout during the round robin. 
It was close. It was nerve-racking. It was a game worthy of an Olympic hockey final. 
“I just tried to shoot it quick,” Crosby said. “Iggy (Jarome Iginla) kind of bumped it out from the corner, I tried to get a quick shot on net. I didn’t even really see. I barely looked at the net. I just tried to throw it there.” 
Before the game, Crosby received a brief text message from Penguins owner Mario Lemieux that said: “Good luck.” 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish extend win streak, Louderback notches 600th win 
All-American tournament, and petition, two-game singles victo-the end the Irish topped the “Tennessee had us pretty nerv-
By MOLLY SAMMON 

they have a lot of talent on their ries from Ciobanu, Rafael and Volunteers 5-2. ous after the doubles matches,” 
Sports Writer 

team.” Rielley rounded out the four total “[The Volunteers] fight no mat-Scaringe said. 
The Irish clinched the doubles points in the Nos. 4, 5 and 6 sin-ter what the circumstances,” In singles play, Rielley, 
The Irish won their sixth and point in the first two match-ups gles positions for the Irish, Scaringe said. “They have been Ciobanu, Rafael and Mathews all seventh games in a row this of the game as seniors Cosmina clinching their sixth straight vic-pretty beat up with injuries in won, as did Frilling, who upset weekend against Georgia Tech Ciobanu and Colleen Rielley won tory. the last few weeks, but they’re No. 7 Whoriskey 6-2, 6-0. and Tennessee, earning coach the No. 3 doubles competition Frilling fell for the first time in still up. They took care of us in “They came out really flat in Jay Louderback his 600th career and sophomore Shannon 2010 Saturday to the No. 1 doubles.” doubles, not a lot of intensity, win in the process. Mathews and freshman Chrissie ranked Irina Falconi of Georgia The Irish No. 1 doubles team, played really tentatively,” 
Notre Dame hosted No. 14 McGaffigan beat their Yellow Tech. consisting of Frilling and Rafael, Scaringe said. “They were more Georgia Tech in a highly compet-Jacket opponents in the No. 2 “Falconi is a really talented fell to Tennessee’s Caitlin energetic and focused in singles itive match-up in which the Irish doubles position. Sophomore player. She can do anything, Whoriskey and Maria Sorbello 8-play. They knew they needed to finished one crucial point above Kristy Frilling and junior Kristen she’s got every shot in the book,” 1. In search of the doubles point, win four points and had to turn it the Yellow Jackets, 4-3, Rafael fell to their No. 1 doubles Scaringe said. “It’s easy to get Notre Dame’s No. 2 doubles team up a notch on the court.” Saturday. competitors. frustrated against her, and of McGaffigan and Mathews lost The Irish will take on No. 23 
“The Georgia Tech players are Rafael replaced senior Kali Falconi played smart.” to Tennessee’s Rosalia Alda and Indiana Friday at the Eck Tennis great competitors and the girls Krisik this weekend after Krisik’s Sunday, the Irish hosted No. 13 Zsofia Zubor in the tiebreaker Pavilion at 3 p.m. are very experienced,” Irish injury Friday inhibited her ability Tennessee. Tennessee took an point, 9-8. Notre Dame won the assistant coach Julia Scaringe to compete this weekend. early lead against the Irish by third doubles point by a forfeit Contact Molly Sammon at said. “Their No. 1 girl won the On the singles side of the com-winning the doubles point, but in from Tennessee. msammon@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Located on shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions available SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS If you or someone you care about
FOR RENT NOTICES for Counselors, Waterfront, Secure your summer job! PERSONAL has been sexually assaulted, we Instructors for Nature/Arts &amp; Residential, Catholic camp, located can help. For more information, visit Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, in Nashville, Indiana. Operated Notre Dame's website: 
Faculty/grad students. 2 bdrm, 2.5 2 AKC registered English Bull dogs Therapists, Food Service, and since 1946. ACA Accredited. http.csap.nd.edu bath, LR, DR, FR, Florida room, util-for free. If interested please contact: Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in ity room. 2-car attached garage. d.harrison120@gmail.com responsible, and love children. June various programs. Inclusive of per-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Security system. Available now. 13 through August 8. Salary, room sons with disabilities. Great staff not go it alone. Notre Dame has Lucky Day: Wherever there is 262-332-0015. Shown by appt. &amp; board, and experience of community. Now Hiring: Male Camp many resources in place to assist injustice, you will find us. 1616 E. Colfax. lifetime provided. Download applica-Counselors. Training provided; start you. If you or someone you love Ned Nederlander: Wherever there is
WANTED tion: www.baycliff.org For more date May 29, 2010. Apply online: needs confidential support or assis-suffering, we'll be there. House 3 bed, 3 bath, new information call or email: (906) 345-www.campranchoframasa.org. For tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Dusty Bottoms: Wherever liberty is rehab/clean, so close to ND you can 9314/email baycliff@baycliff.org more info: Contact Angi Sullivan at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For threatened, you will find... see campus from the yard! Email SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: (888) 988-2839, x25 or email more information, visit ND's web Lucky Day, Ned Nederlander, Dusty alexrock@rock.com Make a difference in the life of a WANTED, Apple iPhone SDK angi@campranchoframasa.org site: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu Bottoms: The Three Amigos! 
child! Summer therapy camp for developers. Contact gradrentals.viewwork.com children with physical disabilities. daniel@miSoft.com. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, March 1, 2010 
page 13 
Men’s Division I Lacrosse USILA Poll 
team previous 
1 Syracuse 1 2 Virginia 3 3 NOTRE DAME 9 4 North Carolina 4 5 Johns Hopkins 5 6 Maryland 7 7 Cornell 6 8 Duke 2 9 Princeton 8 10 Loyola (Maryland) 15 11 Hofstra 10 12 Georgetown 13 13 Delaware NR 14 Massachusetts 17 15 Bucknell 19 16 Navy 11 17 Harvard 14 18 Stony Brook NR 19 UMBC 11 20 Brown 16 21 Albany 18 22 Binghamton NR 23 Rutgers NR 24 Robert Morris NR 25 Sacred Heart NR 
Men’s Division I Lacrosse Nike/Inside Lacrosse Poll 
team  previous  
1  Syracuse  1  
2  Virginia  3  
3  North Carolina  4  
4  Johns Hopkins  5  
5  NOTRE DAME  9  
6  Cornell  6  
7  Maryland  8  
8  Princeton  7  
9  Duke  2  
10  Loyola (Maryland)  16  
11  Hofstra  10  
12  Harvard  12  
13  Georgetown  13  
14  Navy  11  
15  Bucknell  19  
16  Brown  15  
17  Delaware  NR  
18  Massachusetts  17  
19  UMBC  14  
20  Albany  20  
21  Denver  18  
22  Stony Brook  NR  
23  Drexel  NR  
24  Army  NR  
25  Bryant  NR  



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Georgetown at West Virginia 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Hockey 
Red Wings at Avalanche 9 p.m., Versus 
MLB 


Mets’ Reyes meets with federal investigators 
Associated Press 

PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Mets shortstop Jose Reyes said Sunday he met with federal investigators last week regarding a Canadian doctor accused of selling an unapproved drug. 
Dr. Anthony Galea is fac­ing four charges in his country related to the drug known as Actovegin, which is extracted from calf’s blood and used for healing. His assistant also has been charged in the U.S. for hav­ing HGH and another drug while crossing the border in September. 
Galea is known for using a blood-spinning technique — platelet-rich plasma therapy 
— designed to speed recov­ery from injuries. Besides Reyes, he also has treated Tiger Woods and several other professional athletes. 
“They just asked me basi­cally how I met the guy and stuff like that and what he put in my body,” Reyes said. “I explained to them what he (was) doing. ... I don’t worry about anything. I did-n’t do anything wrong.” 
SI.com reported Saturday night that federal officials have told several athletes to expect grand jury subpoe­nas in the case. The Web site cited three anonymous sources familiar with the investigation. 
The New York Times reported in December, citing anonymous sources, that the FBI opened an investi-
IN BRIEF 

Cable challenges Russell to 
win back starting QB job 
INDIANAPOLIS — Coach Tom Cable thinks the best thing for Oakland’s quar­terback situation is a competition. 
That means former No. 1 pick JaMarcus Russell will have to win back his old job. 
“I have not put a lot of thought into this at this point,” Cable said when asked about naming Russell the starter. “JaMarcus is working and doing the things he should be doing right now. He’ll get himself prepared to compete for the job. I think that’s the only way to look at it.” 
Cable did not respond to questions alluding to the lawsuit filed by a former assistant coach who claims Cable broke his jaw during a training camp alterca­tion. He said only that he doesn’t have “that many distractions.” 
He also acknowledged the team hoped to sign defensive end Richard Seymour to a long-term deal after putting the fran­chise tag on him earlier this week. 
gation into Galea based in part on medical records found on his computer relating to several profes­sional athletes. 
Reyes said he met with investigators from the FBI for about 45 minutes at the Mets’ spring facility after they contacted him Thursday morning. One of his agents, Chris Leible, also was present. 
The Daily News of New York was the first to report the meeting. 
Reyes, who missed much of last season with right leg problems, said he spent five days in Toronto in September and was treated by Galea three times during the stay. The shortstop was asked by investigators if he used HGH. 
“They asked me if he injected me with that. I say ‘No,’” Reyes said. “What we do there, basically, he took my blood out, put it in some machines, spin it out and put it back in my leg. So I explained to them that.” 
Mets spokesman Jay Horwitz said the team was aware of the situation, and manager Jerry Manuel said he isn’t worried about it becoming a distraction. 
Reyes said he felt better for a while after the treat­ment but his leg still didn’t respond when he tried to run full speed. He had sur­gery in October to clean up some scar tissue remaining from a torn hamstring ten­don behind his right knee. 
PETA backs off of Tiger 
Woods ad following outcry 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — The animal rights group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has nixed a plan to use Tiger Woods’ image on a billboard urging people to spay and neuter their pets. 
PETA previously announced it would erect a billboard in Windermere — near Woods’ home 
— with his picture and the words: “Too much sex can be a bad thing ... Always spay or neuter!” 
The group, which is known for edgy campaigns, says it decided to put the Woods billboard on hold after talking with the golfer’s attor­neys. 
PETA wouldn’t say whether Woods’ attorneys threatened to sue. 
Instead of Woods, the ad will fea­ture South Carolina Governor Mark Sanford, whose widely known dal­liances have also made frequent headlines. 
O’Neal to have thumb 
examined, miss game 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio — Cavaliers center Shaquille O’Neal will have his injured right thumb examined Sunday by Dr. Thomas Graham at the National Hand Center in Baltimore. 
An MRI Saturday confirmed the injury was a significant sprain. O’Neal, who was hurt during a win at Boston on Thursday, will miss Monday’s game against New York. 
The team has not provided any timeline for his return. 
With O’Neal out of the lineup, Anderson Varejao will continue to start at center. Former backup Zydrunas Ilgauskas, traded to Washington for Antawn Jamison, is now a free agent following a buyout from the Wizards. Ilgauskas is free to sign with any team, but will have to wait until March 21 under NBA rules should he elect to re-sign with the Cavaliers. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame tops Duquesne in season opener 
was never really in doubt but I feel like we could have really dominat­ed. We need some discipline to stick with the game plan.” 
After Duquesne pulled even, Abt led the charge as Notre Dame scored six goals in a row to end the quarter with the score 11-6. The Irish then rode two goals from Abt and goals from freshman attack Betsy Mastropieri and sophomore midfielder Megan Sullivan, as well as improved play of freshman goalie Ellie Hilling, to the win. 
“I have a lot of confidence in Ellie,” Coyne said. “She’s going to be a great goalie for us. Just in the short span between this game and the last game she’s implemented a lot of the things we’ve been work­ing on. She regrouped nicely and her play was a lot better in the second half.” 
The Irish outshot the Dukes 44­17, but Coyne sees the 4-for-23 shooting performance in the sec­ond half as a cause for concern that needs to be worked on. 
“Shooting will be a focus of practice this week,” Coyne said. “We also weren’t happy with the crease defense so we’ll do some crease drills. At this point it’s about moving forward with the things we’ve done well and fixing the problem areas. Fitness-wise I think we’re in a good place.” 
The Irish will continue their non-conference schedule with a noon game at Loftus Sports Center against Dartmouth on March 7. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Junior midfielder Kailene Abt led the No. 8 Irish to a 15-10 victo­ry over Duquesne Saturday in Notre Dame’s home opener. 
The Irish (2-0) jumped out to an early lead in the game on a goal by junior midfielder Shalyn Blaney and then proceeded to score four more goals in a row after Duquesne (0-3) tied up the game at 1-1. Duquesne, however, answered with four goals of its own midway through the first period to tie the score at 5-5. 
“We built an early lead, but from there we lacked a lot of disci­pline defensively,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “We could have really put them away after our four goals in a row but we didn’t finish them.” 
Coyne said she believed her team lost track of the game plan, and needed to work on that going forward. 
“Honestly, as a coaching staff we were pretty disappointed with the team,” Coyne said. “The game 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Senior hat trick leads Irish over Penn State 
ry, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
saw much to improve in his 
Sports Writer 
team’s play for much of the game, especially on the defen-
The Irish struggled at times sive end. against an inferior Penn State “We played too much squad but were able to come defense. We did a terrible job away with a 12-8 win Sunday clearing the ball,” he said. in their home opener. “We were erratic in most 
“We competed well as a phases of the game.” team,” he said. “[However,] we Corrigan said he was made the day tougher on our-pleased with the fact that selves than it needed to be.” Notre Dame was able to get 
No. 3 Notre Dame (2-0) got stops at the end of the game on the board first when sopho-when Penn State was threat-more attack Sean Rogers beat ening but felt that the team the Nittany Lions (0-2) goalie wasted possessions and did two minutes into the game, not value the ball enough. He notching his first career goal. views the win as a learning Senior attack Grant Krebs and experience in the process of sophomore attack Nicholas discovering the team’s identity Beattie added two more goals and what they must do to win in quick succession, giving the games and hopes that his Irish a three-goal advantage players took a step in that just five minutes into the direction. Though he saw opening period. Penn State much to improve, he said he tallied its first goal seven min-did see one thing he liked. utes later before senior attack The Irish look to continue Neal Hicks scored the first of their winning ways with a his three goals just before the three-game road trip over end of the first quarter. Spring Break to Baltimore, 
Hicks, who leads the Philadelphia and Houston to Fighting Irish with five goals face Loyola (Md.), Drexel and this season, added another Fairfield. goal early in the second period to stretch the Notre Dame Contact Allan Joseph at advantage to 5-1, which was ajoseph2@nd.edu answered by a Penn State score. The Irish then reeled off three more scores (two from Krebs and one from sophomore midfielder Grant Pfeifer) to take an 8-2 lead. Each team would add one more before the end of the half — including a goal with three seconds remaining by junior midfielder Zach Brenneman. Notre Dame led 9-3 at intermission. 
The Nittany Lions scored the first goal of the second half at the midpoint of the third quar­ter, which Beattie answered four minutes later. Penn State scored once more before the end of the period to bring the team within five goals. 
Hicks completed his hat trick less than a minute into the fourth quarter before the Nittany Lions threatened to make it a game by scoring three goals in quick succes­sion. However, with the Penn State goalie pulled, senior attack Colin Igoe closed the scoring with a goal near the end of the game. 
Krebs’ and Hicks’ three-goal performances led the Fighting Irish, and Krebs added one assist to give him a game-best four points. Despite the victo­



Monday, March 1, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Odom, Lakers top Nuggets 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — So much for all that confidence the Denver Nuggets had built up during their two impressive wins against the Los Angeles Lakers earlier this season. 
The defending NBA champions picked up on the playoff vibe inside Staples Center on Sunday and got things back to normal, despite a poor-shooting effort from Kobe Bryant . 
Lamar Odom scored nine of his 20 points in the fourth quarter and grabbed 12 rebounds, helping the Lakers overcame an 11-point third-quarter deficit and pull out a 95-89 victory against the team they knocked off in last year’s Western Conference finals. Pau Gasol added 15 points and 14 rebounds. 
“It was nice to be in somewhat of a pressure-cooker,” Bryant said. “It’s been two years now where we’ve beaten them in the postsea­son, so I’m sure they’re fed up. They played with a lot of energy and intensity, and we had to step up against them. It was a playoff type of intensity.” 
Ron Artest added 17 points and tied a season high with six steals for the Lakers, who trail the Cavaliers by one game for the league’s best record. They lead Denver by 5 1/2 games for the Western Conference lead. 
“They slowed our offense down,” Nuggets coach George Karl said. “They picked up the pressure on us in the second half and we didn’t have the persever­ance to pass the ball or penetrate before the pressure came. Our whole thing with Kobe was to try to plug him and keep him away from the rim and off the free throw line. We got that done pret­ty much the whole game.” 

Bryant was just 3 for 17 from the field, finishing with 14 points and 12 assists. He was 1 for 9 dur­ing the first three quarters -the only field goal coming on a layup with 5:37 left in the opening peri­od. 
“God knows I love the triangle (offense), but I kind of had to get into a playoff mode a little bit today -just put the ball in my hands and let me make the deci­sions. But I missed a lot of shots,” Bryant said. “My jumper was off. So I’ve got to get back in and work on it so it’s consistent again, after being off for a long time.” 
Carmelo Anthony scored 21 points for Denver before fouling out for the second time this season with 2:13 to play and the Nuggets down by four. 
“They did a great job of trying to keep the ball out of my hands and denied me every chance they got,” Anthony said. “They were much more aggressive in the second half and made adjustments to what we were doing.” 
Lakers guard Derek Fisher , who picked up two fouls 57 sec­onds apart during the first 2 min­utes and went to the bench, didn’t get his third until he fouled Chauncey Billups behind the 3­point line with 5 1/2 minutes to play. Billups made all three free throws to tie the score at 82. But the Nuggets did not make a field goal over the final 4:10, ending their three-game winning streak. 


MEN’S TENNIS 
ND ends losing skid behind Watt’s efforts 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame ended its three-match losing streak in style this weekend. 
The No. 41 Irish defeated Michigan State 6-1 Saturday and No. 31 Wisconsin 4-3 and Toledo 6-1 Sunday. 
“It was a great weekend for Notre Dame tennis at the Eck Pavilion,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Sunday proved to be our best match of the season as we outgutted a tal­ented Wisconsin team that had earlier beaten No.14 Florida State in Tallahassee. It was sweet revenge for our guys who lost twice to Wisconsin by identical 4-3 score in matches that could not have been clos­er.” 
Notre Dame swept the dou­bles and sophomore Casey Watt’s win at No. 1 singles clinched the win over the Spartans. It was Notre Dame’s 21st consecutive win over Michigan State. 
The Irish won the doubles point to jump ahead with a 1-0 lead. At No. 3, junior David Anderson and freshman Spencer Talmadge defeated the 45th-ranked Spartan duo of Denis Bogatov and Clark Richardson 8-2. Watt and jun­ior Stephen Havens battled their way through a tough match to win 8-7 (7-2) over Austin Brooks and John Stratton. 
Sophomore Samuel Keeton broke ahead for Notre Dame when he defeated the Spartans’ Will Davis 6-0, 6-4 in straight sets at No. 6 singles. The only Irish loss of the day came in the form of freshman Blas Moros’ fall to Stratton 7-6 (7-4), 6-0 loss at No. 5 singles. 
Against Wisconsin, the Badgers commenced the day by securing the crucial doubles point away from the Irish to begin a very tough match. 
Watt and Havens won 8-5 at No. 1 doubles over the Wisconsin duo of Moritz Baumann and Patrick Pohlmann but were followed by Davis and Fitzgerald falling 8-4 to Marek Michalicka and Luke Rassow-Kantor at No. 2. Anderson and Talmadge closed out the doubles play with an 8­3 loss to Ricardo Martin and Michael Dierberger. 
The Irish were true to their name as the fought back with wins in Nos. 1, 3, 4 and 5 sin­gles. Watt defeated Baumann again 2-6, 6-2, 6-4 in a back­and-forth match at the No. 1 position. Bayliss said Watts’ win was the highlight of the day for Notre Dame. 
“Casey changed his tactics and began to counterpunch more to turn things around,” Bayliss said. 
Stahl, Anderson and Keeton all also contributed to Notre Dame’s success. 
“Anderson was aggressive from the baseline and Keeton was able to pass with preci­sion,” Bayliss said. 
The Irish again swept the doubles division over the Rockets as they mixed up the pairs. Fitzgerald and Davis won 8-6 over Nutthavit Likitkumchorn and Aleksandar Elezovic at No.1. At No. 2, Anderson and Talmadge won 9-7 over Bryant Dudzik and Terence Weigan while Toledo’s Leonardo Henriques and Leo Sarria lost 8-3 to freshman Michael Moore and junior Matt Johnson. 
Notre Dame won the match with wins everywhere except at No. 2, where Anderson lost to Elezovic, 4-6, 7-6, 0-1. Helping to secure the win were Watt, Keeton, Davis, Fitzgerald and Moros to move Notre Dame to 6-5. 
The Irish will next travel to Champaign, Ill., to take on the Illini on March 2 for a dual match at 5 p.m. CST. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Senior Gerbert leads Belles to frst road win 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles’ season is off to a promising start as they took home their first road win Sunday over North Central College in Naperville, Ill. 
Saint Mary’s (2-1) ended up dominating the singles competi­tions after initially falling behind by a score of 1-2. Senior Camille Gerbert got the rally started by winning 6-3, 6-1 in the No. 2 sin­gles spot. Juniors Franca Peluso, Jessica Kosinski and Jillian Hurley followed suit winning their matches to bring the overall score to 4-2. 
Hurley returned with junior Mary Therese Lee to secure the team victory with a decisive 8-4 win in the doubles, the team’s only win in that competition. 
“Our coach is telling us that we were dead even on paper, we had to get at least one win out of the three,” Lee said. “[Hurley] hit a lot of good balls and was a very consistent, really good player, it was a really good match.” 
The Belles next head to Orlando for a week-long tourna­ment over spring break. They will face some of the toughest competition of the season in Wesleyan and Wheaton. 
“We are really proud that we came back, this was a really good match for us to win,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “It’s good to have a little more experi­ence going into the spring trip. We will definitely have some good opponents.” 
The veteran Belles squad will have the rest of the week to rest and fine-tune their skills before they take on Ursinus in their first game of the Orlando tournament. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, March 1, 2010 
left the good friends exhausted. remaining. “It was a great fight,” Tchoula more energy from both fighters, From the beginning of what “His style matches up real said. “I had to go out there and especially Crepeau. He began 
Miller 

Doran called a “friendly rivalry,” tough against the style I try to box the best that I could against a gaining momentum and landed continued from page 18 the two fighters went at it hard fight,” Garcia said. “I got kind of guy like Pat Burns.” multiple consecutive combina­
and with energy. lucky because he started bleeding Though he landed some vicious tions before Burroughs abruptly The second round was back-and-Doran, a junior, used his length in the second round and they just punches, Tchoula did not seem to switched the nature of the bout by forth, with each fighter landing to land punches early. However, couldn’t get the blood to stop.” relish it, explaining that he and knocking Crepeau to his knees. punches. The fighters sparred he often got overaggressive and Garcia now gets to savor his Burns are very good friends and Both fighters landed some hard without either gaining a signifi-his fellow junior Golab was able to unlikely victory, but he is also that he’s glad the season is over. punches, which pleased the cant advantage, and this time evade and return punches during relieved that the time-consuming “I’m looking forward to next crowd. The first two rounds were Bennett was the one who played the first round, keeping the fight Bouts process is coming to an year,” he said. “But it’s time to even, and if anything, Crepeau the role of late-round attacker. He even. end. take some rest.” may have had the upper hand. could not gain momentum, and During the second round, Doran “I’m relieved, I really am, to be “He caught me with a couple everyone in the Purcell Pavilion was able to dictate the pace of the done,” he said. “It’s a lot of pres-Heavyweight good ones and he moved real knew that the fight would be fight using his footwork, but sure and a lot to think about.” well,” Burroughs said. “The first decided in the last round. Golab preferred to take a few Will “at the Edge of Darkness” couple rounds I was just trying to 
Before the start of the third punches and then break out and 205 pounds Burroughs def. Kevin “The Long find a counterpunch or find an round, Bennett motioned to a land a combination of his own. Beach Lumberjack” Crepeau opening.” large contingent of supporters Doran continued to use aggres-John “Papi” Tchoula def. Pat Law student Burroughs and The third round, however, was from Zahm, getting a loud sive footwork even while taking “Tigers Love Pepper, They Hate junior Crepeau provided a spirit-dominated by Burroughs’ power. response and an almost tangible punches from Golab, minimizing Cinnamon” Burns ed end to the Bengal Bouts season From the bell, he fought aggres­energy boost. He fed off the ener-the effect of Golab’s combinations. The fight began tentatively until in a match that saw Burroughs, sively, ignoring punches he gy, going on the offensive and The third round began with the junior Tchoula initiated the one of the faces of the program, received in a singular focus on landing more punches, including Golab on the offensive, but Doran furious boxing with a series of come away with yet another overpowering his opponent. He some very hard jabs to Miller’s quickly regained control and body blows. He would continue to heavyweight championship in his was able to accomplish that goal, head. Miller realized that he was refused to relinquish it for the rest play the role of aggressor, but the last appearance and his third at one point pushing Crepeau into falling behind and began franti-of the bout. He seemed to have senior co-president Burns also against Crepeau in 
the finals. the corner and knocking him cally attacking. He landed more more energy than Golab and landed quite a few punches on The match began with each down. Crepeau still threw flurries punches, but got overaggressive, started throwing significantly Tchoula early. The first round was fighter testing the other, as was of punches, but it was not enough allowing Bennett to evade and more punches. Near the middle even, with Tchoula landing a few the strategy, explained and Burroughs won by unani­land more punches. The fight and end of the third round, Doran more combinations but also miss-Burroughs. mous decision. The victory gave ended with a flurry of punches, forced Golab into a mostly defen-ing on more punches. “He [Crepeau] always had a him an opportunity to reflect on but Bennett’s energetic third sive mindset and laid on a late The second round saw a display strategy and he sticks to it and it’s his time with Bengal Bouts. round gave him the victory by extended combination at the end of athleticism, especially at the effective,” Burroughs said. “It’s been sweet. The guys in unanimous decision. He credited of the fight that decided the fight beginning. Tchoula moved with Crepeau landed more punches this program are amazing,” he his supporters with giving him the in his favor by a split decision unbelievable quickness, but Burns early, though Burroughs landed said. “I’m looking forward to see-late kick he needed. that, when announced, left Golab utilized his agility to evade many harder ones. The junior was ing how they will do not only in 

“Jason’s a real tough fight, [but] collapsing. of Tchoula’s bigger swings. much more of an active fighter, boxing but after they leave Notre Zahm is an unbelievable dorm “It was a really close fight; it Tchoula, however, often negated moving around the ring and mak-Dame. They are all amazing and an unbelievable atmos-could have gone either way,” this by forcing Burns to the ropes ing Burroughs come to him. The guys.” phere,” he said. “My best friends Doran said. “I just had a tiny bit and landing some hard punches first round was very even, with live there and they didn’t let me more left in the tank in that when he cornered Burns. Burns each fighter landing a combina-Contact Chris Allen and Allan down this entire tournament.” round, but seriously a great fight, refused to back down, even mov-tion in response to the other. Joseph at callen10@nd.edu and 
for sure my toughest so far.” ing into more of an aggressive The second round saw much ajoseph2@nd.edu 173 pounds Both competitors were left role and providing a spirited end 
reflecting on their Bengal Bouts to the second round. Matthew “Cool and Tough” experience and looking forward The third round began with Paletta def. Alex Kissinger to next year. both fighters attempting to go for 
Paletta and Kissinger met in “It’s sad to be done, with the a knockout blow, and Tchoula one of the best fights of the night, guys and the atmosphere,” Doran came close when he moved Burns an all-out slugfest that brought said. “Some guys think boxing is to the ropes and knocked him the crowd to its feet. an individual sport, but it’s a real down. This seemed to really faze 
From the first bell, the fighters brotherhood down here that’s Burns, who from that point on attacked each other. Both seniors amazing every year.” could not throw nearly enough were throwing and landing hard Doran and Golab are both mak-punches to counter the never-tir­punches at an unbelievable pace. ing the trip to Bangladesh over ing Tchoula. Burns continued to As the first round continued, the summer to visit the Holy Cross fight his hardest, however, until Kissinger relied on his volume of missions that the Bouts benefit. the final bell, which saw the punches, while Paletta preferred announcement of Tchoula as win-to block and throw fewer but 189 pounds ner by unanimous decision. harder punches. 
The second round was just as Bernardo “Blue” Garcia def. energetic as the first one. The Timothy Wallace fight was stopped three times in When Wallace’s corner could the second round when not clean up his bloody nose fast Kissinger’s nose began bleeding. enough, the referee stopped the Each was throwing punches that fight and Garcia earned his sec-bordered on wild, and connecting ond consecutive title. on many of them. At one point, The fight began with flurries of Kissinger went low and landed a punches from both Garcia and combination on his opponent’s Wallace. Though Garcia was the body, ignoring the fact that one coming at Wallace, Wallace Paletta was connecting on multi-would stand his ground and ple punches to his head at the return the punches. same time. In the middle of the round, 
The third round was even more Wallace began to fight more intense. Each fighter preferred to aggressively and gained momen­take and throw punches rather tum before the bell rung, giving than attempt to dodge punches. Garcia a respite to catch his The bout went back and forth, breath. and though no one could predict The second round began with the winner, the whole Purcell lots of energy, but Wallace con-Pavilion rose to its feet in appreci-trolled the tempo of the fight. The ation of the fight they had just fight was stopped, however, when witnessed. The two embraced and Wallace began bleeding for the later exchanged numbers in the first time. This did not stop him, locker room, having bonded however, as he came out of the through their competition. stoppage with an aggressive men­
“That was the gnarliest fight tality and attacked so hard that he I’ve ever been in, in three years knocked Garcia down and almost by far,” Paletta said. “I’m sure he out of the ring. feels the same way; it was a hell The fight was stopped repeated-of a fight.” ly for blood throughout the sec-
Paletta, though bruised and bat-ond round, which exacted a heavy tered, took a moment to reflect on toll on Wallace’s momentum. If he what his championship meant to had been given a chance to build him. his momentum, he may have 
“It feels great, it’s a lot of time been very tough to beat, but the and a lot of sacrifices, getting out stop-and-start nature of the of bed when you don’t want to,” round favored Garcia. he said. “But [the win] makes it all In the third round, Wallace worth it.” unleashed a high volume of 
punches, and though Garcia 180 pounds fought back, Wallace landed 
many of them. The match contin-Mike Doran def. Dominic ued to be stopped for blood, and “Warsaw War Hammer” Golab Garcia was declared the winner 
Doran defeated Golab in a when the referee stopped the hard-hitting bout that went back match for the final time with one and forth for the entire match and minute and seven seconds 



Monday, March 1, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 

Hoyas 
continued from page 20 
to get a first-round bye in the con­ference tournament. 
“We’ve had guys that stepped up and are playing really well together,” Hansbrough said. “Nobody really cares how many points, we’re just all trying to win together. I think that’s a rarity in college basketball.” 
The Hoyas (19-8, 9-7) could not keep up with the Irish on the boards, even with Harangody still sidelined because of a bone bruise to his knee suffered on Feb. 11 against Seton Hall. Notre Dame had 26 rebounds, 10 of them offensive, compared to Georgetown’s 15 total rebounds. 
“I think we were really fighting the whole night trying to get in position, not accepting block outs,” junior forward Tim Abromaitis said. 
Abromaitis scored 19 points. 
Junior forward Carleton Scott had 17 points and nine rebounds, four of them offensive. 
Georgetown junior guard Austin Freeman, who averages 17 points per game, did not start for the Hoyas because of an illness. He played, but scored only five points. 
Notre Dame trailed 4-3 three minutes into the game, then took the lead for the rest of the first half. The Irish pulled ahead 11-4 and 21-14, but Jason Clark hit a 3-pointer to pull Georgetown within three with 7:23 left in the first half. 
In the second half, a Hansbrough 3-pointer gave Notre Dame a 41-30 lead with 17:18 remaining, and two layups from freshman forward Jack Cooley put Notre Dame ahead by 12. Then a Georgetown 8-0 run pulled the score to 50-46 with 
8:40 left. 
But senior guard Tory Jackson hit a 3-pointer to widen the lead to seven, Scott followed with another and Hansbrough hit a third after Scott scrambled for a loose ball to give Notre Dame a 59-49 lead with 5:21 left. 
“Looking up at the scoreboard and seeing you’re up seven instead of four, that’s huge,” Hansbrough said. “We locked up and we played on the defensive end as well.” 
Hansbrough stole the ball on the next possession and was fouled as he made the layup, then sank the free throw to give Notre Dame a 13-point lead. The play capped a 12-3 Irish run. 
Abromaitis was fouled taking a 3-point shot and the 88-percent free throw shooter made all three, giving Notre Dame a 65-49 lead with 4:08 to play. 
“All season long we’ve known that we can compete with the best teams out there,” Abromaitis said. “It’s really big to have this confi­dence and try to carry this for­ward.” 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Barlow 
continued from page 20 
and every game. She’s done it all four years. She’s had just a bril­liant career, and I think she’s going to be irreplaceable.” 
The Irish will need another balanced performance on both ends of the court if they hope to end No. 1 Connecticut’s 68-game winning streak Monday. Notre Dame needs a victory or a loss by No. 18 St. John’s to lock up the No. 4 seed in the Big East tournament and a double bye. 
The Irish fell to the Huskies (29-0, 15-0) 70-46 on Jan. 16. McGraw said a different mentali­ty and a renewed intensity would be key as the Irish look to close out the regular season with a historic upset. 
“Unfortunately we’re not going to learn a lot from the last game we played them because we played so poorly,” McGraw said. “What we want to do now is go out and play our game. I think that we need to go in with a dif­ferent mindset. I think we need to go in with a different attitude. We need to come at the game and be ready to really go to war and to battle.” 
Tipoff is 7 p.m. Monday at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Jackson 
continued from page 20 
their lead with a power-play goal late in the first period, as sopho­more forward David Wohlberg flipped the puck over Johnson’s back on a point-blank shot. 
The Irish answered with a 4-on­4 goal early in the second when junior wing Calle Ridderwall redi­rected a quick shot from junior defenseman Teddy Ruth. 
“I think getting that first goal was really important,” Jackson said. “Our confidence is so fragile when we give up a goal on the first shift of the game. I think it hurt and we took a step backwards. Michigan is a fast team that will put a lot of pressure on you and force you to make mistakes, and we made some mistakes in the first period.” 
The equalizer came only min­utes later when senior defense-man Brett Blatchford scored shorthanded with a long slapshot. Exactly one minute later, senior Notre Dame forward Joe Lavin flipped a backhand shot over Michigan goalie Shawn Hunwick’s shoulder from the low slot to put the Irish in front. 
Freshman wing Kyle Palmieri linked up with senior wing Ryan 


Schrage 
continued from page 20 
it’s their second weekend being outside. It was a high sky and very windy, tough playing fly balls. It was fitting that the game ended with a dropped fly ball. It was good to get a win today. 4-2 is a lot better than 3-3.” 
The Irish opened the tourna­ment with an 11-1 loss to Illinois (1-2) Friday, followed by a 10-2 defeat at the hands of No. 21 Ohio State (5-1) Sunday. Although the starting pitching failed to keep the Irish close in its first true test of the season, shoddy defense was responsible for a number of unearned runs. The Irish committed 13 errors in the three games. 
“Our starting pitching did struggle,” Schrage said. “They’re good hitters, they were really tough. We had to make a lot of extra pitches because we were Thang on a one-timer late in the second, putting Notre Dame up 4­
2. Caporusso scored his second goal of the night early in the third to draw the Wolverines within a goal, but senior forward Dan Kissel extended the Irish lead less than a minute later. 
Jackson said he was proud that his team picked up the emotional win to send out one of the most decorated groups of Notre Dame seniors in the program’s history. 
“This group of kids has been a big part of what has happened to this program in the last few years,” Jackson said. “Regardless of things not going the way we wanted to this year, they’ve have had a huge impact on the success of this program. I’ve very proud of this group of guys, and I’m glad we came out on top tonight for them, to make it a positive finish to the regular season and get some confi­dence heading into the playoffs.” 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
giving the team extra outs. I still think pitching is the strength of our team, so we need to start pitching more innings, pitch deeper into games so we don’t have to tax our bullpen.” 
After erupting for 39 runs in the three-game season opener last weekend, the offense strug­gled to plate runners against Big Ten pitching, stranding a total of 36 runners on base. Nevertheless, Schrage said he is pleased with the way his hitters are seeing the ball this early in the season. 
“I was really pleased with how we hit the ball yesterday and today. I liked our approach today,” Schrage said. “We just couldn’t get that one big hit or string of hits, but we were still hitting the ball well. Matt Scioscia was the best hitter on this trip, and Casey Martin stayed really hot.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, March 1, 2010 
“I have been training for eight body size and height, fought an in the first round. Oloriz tried to the same. Each fighter would or nine months and all of the hard even fight highlighted by big generate leverage by using his throw two or three punches and 
Bouts 

work really paid off,” Toscano punches as Slaney scored a split uppercut to attack Maier, but the then disengage. They had a high continued from page 20 said. decision victory. Cowden used his senior’s defense was strong. energy level and were bouncing 
long jab to keep Slaney on the run Maier controlled the second around the ring, but for the sec-hit Rivera with a left hook that 147 pounds early and get an edge in the first round in similar fashion as he kept ond consecutive round, neither sent him through the ropes and round. The whole first round, Oloriz from landing any strong could gain an advantage. nearly into the crowd, bringing the Kieran Bulger def. Kevin Slaney kept to the ropes and shots to the head or body. Maier’s In the third round, the fighters fight to an early end in the first “DiGiorno” Ortenzio seemed content to play a defensive strong uppercut late in the round seemed almost mirror each other; round. The defensive tilt between the game against the charging snapped Oloriz’s head back, and their familiarity was evident, as 
senior Bulger and the sophomore Cowden. Maier followed it up with big each could anticipate the other’s 133 pounds Ortenzio resulted in Bulger scor-In the second round, things punches to the bell. moves. Bucci used a burst of ener­
ing a split-decision victory over the turned. Initially, Cowden’s reach Oloriz sensed the need for a big gy at the end to land a series of Chris “Cougar” Cugliari def. sophomore. seemed impossible to contend third round and opened with a punches that may have broken the Michael “The Silver City “I had to take it slow,” Bulger with but once Slaney got inside he furious combination, though at the tie and given him the unanimous-Slugger” Sayles said. “I figured that he is such a punished his younger opponent tail end he left his hands open and decision victory. 
The two senior captains battled workhorse in practice that he with huge blows. A punishing the experienced Maier seized the Throughout the fight, it was evi­for three rounds, with Cugliari would probably have good hook from Slaney that sent opportunity, beating the freshman dent how close the two were. As besting Sayles in a unanimous endurance.” Cowden’s mouthpiece flying sever-back with big punches. When the soon as the bell ended each round, decision. Early on in the fight both fight-al rows into the crowd highlighted referee checked on Oloriz shortly the fighters would bump fists, and 
“I was pleased that I believe the ers chose to pick their spots and the round. After fighting resumed, before the bell, Maier let loose at the end, the two shared a long two of us left it all in the ring,” Bulger’s long reach helped him Slaney used the little time left with a loud display of emotion, the embrace. Bucci admitted that the Sayles said. “At the end of the day, gain the upper hand, as the slow before the bell to keep momentum result of four years of training cul-two were less aggressive because it doesn’t matter so much winning pace suited his careful style. going with strong punches. minating in the unanimous victory they were so close. or losing as it does going in the From the bell in the second In the third round, Cowden over Oloriz. “It was probably the longest and ring and doing everything you can round both fighters picked up the mounted a bit of a comeback, as “I spent four years training,” most boring fight for everybody and leaving it all out there.” intensity as they threw more the round resembled more of a Maier said. “Four years, and this watching, because neither guy 
In the first round, Cugliari’s evi-punches, with Bulger hitting more brawl than a boxing match. Both where I wanted to be. It’s a great wanted to hit the other,” he said. dent advantage in strength frequently as he blocked most of fighters were punching with all way to go out.” In the end, however, Bucci hit seemed to wear down the defens-Ortenzio’s attacks. Ortenzio they had, but Cowden took control Hopke a few more times, and es of the smaller and speedier momentarily turned the tide with of the fight halfway through the 163 pounds emerged the champion. Sayles. His strong jabs kept Sayles a big uppercut that allowed him to third and didn’t ease up from his backpedaling as the senior stayed chase Bulger around the ring for onslaught. Ultimately, however, Jordan Bucci def. Matt Hopke 166 pounds on the offensive for most of the the remainder of the round. Slaney’s punishing run in the sec-The Bucci-Hopke fight may have round. Toward the end of the In the third round the physical ond round and early third proved been the most interesting stories Gregory Bennett def. Jason round, a nice combination by nature of the fight took a toll on enough to hand him the champi-of the night, because the two “Pretty Boy” Miller Sayles seemed to shift momentum both fighters as they were both onship by split decision. opponents are also close friends Bennett defeated Miller in one of as he got inside Cugliari’s jab and visibly fatigued. Bulger came out “After the fight I just wanted to and housemates. the tightest bouts of the night. worked the body of his fellow cap-looking to hit as many big punches know that I gave it my all, win or “We’ve been roommates since Though the two tested each other tain. as he could, but a couple missed lose,” Slaney said. freshman year sharing a bunk,” at the first bell, the fight quickly 
Sayles carried a bit of that hooks opened up his usually excel-Bucci said. “I don’t remember turned energetic, with the sopho­momentum into the second round lent defense and Ortenzio landed 160 pounds ever saying ‘good luck’ to a guy more Bennett attacking while when his combos started to hit some nice combinations on him. who’s about to hit you, so it was Miller was able to dodge many more frequently. Before the end of As the fighters continued to John “My Body is a Wonderland” kind of weird in that respect.” punches and take advantage. the round though, Cugliari hopped exchange big blows in the third, Maier def. Alex “Gatito Loco” The fight began tentatively, with Miller, a senior, began to attack back on the offensive, working Bulger’s strong defense and long Oloriz each fighter feeling out the other’s late in the first round but could Sayles into the corner and finish-reach enabled him to preserve a The senior captain Maier defeat-strategy. Bucci and Hopke each not build up significant momen­ing the round with huge and pun-close split decision victory. ed the upstart freshman Oloriz by threw a few punches, but neither tum before the bell ended the first ishing combos. “I wanted to keep my space and unanimous decision in a capstone gained the upper hand in the first round. Bennett said the increased 
In the third round the two fight-make my punches count,” Bulger of his long career with the Bengal round. Hopke seemed to be more round length — two minutes per ers emptied their tanks. Cugliari’s said. Bouts. willing to throw punches, while round — played into the pace of powerful blows seemed to take a “As a freshman it’s an uphill Bucci was content to dodge his the fight. toll on the smaller Sayles, whose 151 pounds battle to begin with,” Maier said. housemate’s punches. Near the “Usually I come out pretty defense weakened as he tired “I helped him through the whole end of the first round, the fighters aggressive from the start but later in the fight. As the round Tim “The Slayer” Thayer def. process trying to get him here.” showed a burst of energy and because of the long rounds today I came to a close, the two fighters Bobby Powers Maier used his size advantage each pummeled the other’s body, wanted to keep it steady,” Bennett wrapped each other up constantly, This highly-anticipated fight and boxing expertise to keep the but neither could gain an advan-said. a sign of the obvious physical toll between the senior captain shorter and stockier Oloriz at a tage. the fight took on them. In the end, Thayer and talented junior distance and land several punches The second round was more of see MILLER/page 16 Cugliari’s consistent and punishing Powers lived up to its billing and attack scored him the unanimous by the final bell the crowd offered decision. a standing ovation to the pair as 
“I feel like a million bucks right Thayer squeaked out a split-deci­now,” Cugliari said. “After four sion victory. years working for this, this is a “It definitely lived up to all the dream come true.” hype,” Thayer said. 
Powers tried to use a small 140 pounds height advantage by using his long 
reach to keep the powerful Albert Toscano def. Michael “Slayer” at bay. This strategy kept Johnston Thayer backpedaling, but when 
This battle of entertaining fight-Powers left himself open to a ers went the distance, with the punch the powerful senior wal­sophomore Toscano scoring a loped him with a big hook and unanimous decision over the sen-forced the referee to check on ior Johnston. The fight was a bat-Powers. tle of contrasting styles with the “Thayer is the best boxer I have shorter and broader Toscano ever fought against,” Powers said. using his strong base to punish the The second round saw the pair taller Johnston. The fighters trad-trade blows from bell to bell as ed blows for the opening portion both struggled to take control of of the first round as the pace even-the round. Each fighter got in a tually settled down. Toscano’s strong combination, but each strong arsenal of punches put rebounded to swing momentum Johnston on the defensive, and he back and forth multiple times. punished the senior on the ropes Thayer got the last blow right with his uppercut. before the bell, a punch that 
Toscano went to the uppercut snapped Powers’ head back and early and often in the second set the tone for the third round. round, relying on a more careful, The third round was a struggle defensive style after his strong for both fighters as the first two first round. After Johnston began rounds left the pair exhausted. By to use his jab to work his way the latter part of the round, the back into the fight, Toscano imme-entire Purcell Pavilion was on its diately reversed the momentum feet for both Powers and Thayer with a thunderous combo that put as they struggled to even raise Johnston on the ropes to end the their arms and complete a punch. second round. Ultimately Thayer was able to 
With Johnston needing a good fight through the pain and com-round in the third, Toscano imme-plete a few punches that enabled diately put to rest any comeback him to win a close split-decision Johnston had, putting together a victory. strong round ending with a knock­down toward the end of the 155 pounds round. After Johnston fell to the mat at the bell, Toscano let loose Ryan “Dayman” Slaney def. with a display of emotion as the Adam “Mad” Cowden “Disease” sophomore scored a unanimous The senior Slaney and the soph­victory on the strength of nearly omore Cowden, nearly mirror flawless boxing. images of each other in terms of 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  
 
 18  19  
 
 
20  
 
 21  22  23  
 
 
 
24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  60  61  62  63  
64  
 
 65  66  67  
 
 
68  69  70  
 
 
71  72  73  

Monday, March 1, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 40Nozzle 1 Placed on a 
connector wall, as a picture 41Exactly what's 5 “It is ___ told by expected an idiot …”: 44Sir ___
Macbeth Guinness 10Went in haste 45Device that 14Butterlike spread measures gas
properties15[See grid] 46Ankle-related 
16High-proteinfood often found 49Classical opera in vegetarian redone by Elton 
cuisine John 17Lollapalooza 50180° from NNW 18Make up for, as 51___ cit. (in the sins place cited) 
19Duos 53“Deadly” septet 20The “P” in P.T.A. 55Geometric curve 22Wrigley Field or 60Cinco de Mayo 
Camden Yards party24Facts and 64“Washingtons” 
figures 65“Thank you, 26Envision Henri” 27“The racer's 67Tex's sidekick 
edge” 68Luau 30Boulder's home: instruments, for Abbr. short 32Took for a trial 69[See grid] run 
70Having length 37In the poorest of and width only, taste, as a novel briefly 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

71Vessel in “Cast Away”
72Creation that's almost human 
73Concorde fleet 
Down 
1 Hula ___ 
2 Radius's neighbor
3 ___-do-well 
4 Like an unfortunate torero 5 Slaughterhouse6 Onesie wearer 7 Lots 8 Singer Horneand actress Olin 9 Shoelace hole 10Internet address opener
11 Early state inpresidentialcampaigns
12Get an ___ effort 
13Dawn's opposite
21Cheese-covered chip
23Stan of Marvel Comics 
25Prince Valiant's wife 
27March 17 honoree, forshort 
28Syllables in a gay refrain
29Gadget forsomeone on K.P. 
duty
31Milo of “Ulysses”
33Elisabeth of 
“Leaving LasVegas”
34Legal wrongs
35Mountain road features 
36Plow manufacturer 
38Certain NCOs 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Holden Baker 
39Actresses Garr 52Easy to 59Ship in search of and Hatcher understand the Golden Fleece
42Systematized, as 54Back-to-school laws mos. 61Old sayings 43Resident on the 55Preside over the 
62Harness racetip of the Arabian tea ceremony gaitPeninsula 

56Paul who wrote 47Tirana's land: “My Way” 63Comments 
furtherAbbr. 57Snorkeling site 

48Appeared on the 58Kind of prof. or 66151, in old horizon D.A. Rome 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Monday, March 1, 2010 page 20 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Champions crowned 
14 fnals bring end to 

month-long tourney  
By CHRIS ALLEN and ALLAN  
JOSEPH  
Sports Writers  
124 pounds  
Jack “Rico Suave” Lally def.  
Steven “505” Rivera  
The freshman Lally came out  
with energy in his Bengal Bouts  
debut and the only fight in the  
124-pound weight division,  
crushing the senior Rivera en  
route to a victory by technical  
knockout.  
“I was able to land some good  
combinations and just back him  
off,” Lally said. “I thought I was  
successful at landing some solid  
punches.”  
Lally’s speed was too much for  
Rivera and from the opening bell  
he took control. Early on in the  
first round the action was stopped  
twice to protect Rivera after furi­ 
ous combos from Lally to the  
upper body and face of the senior.  
After the second stoppage, Lally see BOUTS/page 18  PAT COVENEY/The Observer Sophomore Albert Toscano lands a punch against senior Michael Johnston in Saturday night’sBengal Bouts Championship. Toscano won the 140-pound fight in a unanimous decision.  

BASEBALL 
Irish drop twoofthree to Big Ten 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
After dropping the first two games of the Big Ten/Big East Tournament in blowout fashion, the Irish salvaged a much-need­ed win over Penn State 9-8 in 10 innings Sunday. 
On a day plagued by bad defense, senior right fielder David Mills scored the winning run on a dropped fly ball off the bat of freshman third baseman Adam Norton. 
Junior Todd Miller (1-0) picked up the win for Notre Dame (4-2), tossing 1 1-3 scoreless innings of relief. Although disappointed in his team’s overall performance in the tournament, Irish coach Dave Schrage said he’d take wins any way he could get them. 
“We played three very similar games, we didn’t play very good defense,” Schrage said. “I know 
see SCHRAGE/page 17 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame tops Seton Hall, a prelude to Connecticut tilt 
“We played as well as we’ve ference play all season. Senior get inside a little bit more, and guished Irish career as she sur-
By CHRIS MASOUD 

played in a long time,” Irish guard Melissa Lechlitner added we were very successful with it.” passed Irish assistant coach 
Sports Writer 

coach Muffet McGraw said. “The 10 points, as Notre Dame (25-3, Several players approached Niele Ivey for sole possession of second half was really great, our 12-3 Big East) appeared to have double figures in scoring for the 11th on the all-time scoring list. 
Following two consecutive balance, our depth. I was really regained its rhythm on offense Irish, who handed the Pirates (9-Barlow is just seven points short road losses last week, No. 7 pleased with just the overall with Schrader’s return to the 19, 1-14 Big East) their sixth of breaking the top 10. Notre Dame turned in a com-team effort, which is something lineup. straight loss and 15th in 16 “She’s had a major impact on plete performance Saturday, that has been lacking in the last “We’re hard to guard when we games. Freshman guard Skylar our program,” McGraw said. crushing an overmatched Seton couple of games.” have a lot of people contribut-Diggins and senior guard Ashley “She has done so many different Hall team 72-47 in South In her second game back from ing,” McGraw said. “We Barlow chipped in nine points things. She’s our most versatile Orange, N.J. an ankle injury, senior guard rebounded well today, we had a apiece, and junior forward player — she rebounds, she 
Although the game was briefly Lindsay Schrader scored 12 lot of assists. Everybody did what Devereaux Peters added eight scores, she defends. She makes tied at 18, the Irish put together points to lead an Irish offense they could do, and I thought we points and eight rebounds. big plays after big plays each a 12-2 run to close out the first that shot 56 percent from the took great shots. We didn’t shoot Barlow’s nine points Saturday half and put the game to rest. floor, its best percentage in con-a lot of threes, we really tried to give her 1,432 in her distin-see BARLOW/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Second straight upset for ND 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Another game without Luke Harangody was no problem for the Irish. Ben Hansbrough made sure of that. 
The senior guard scored 21 points and Notre Dame knocked off No. 11 Georgetown 78-64 on the road Saturday, its second straight win against a ranked opponent and another step in its late-season push for the NCAA Tournament. 
The Irish (19-10, 8-8 Big East) followed their dominating game against No. 12 Pittsburgh Wednesday with another good offensive performance. The win moved them to eighth place in the Big East, in position — for now — 
see HOYAS/page 17 


HOCKEY 
Seniors honored with victory over Michigan 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish sent out their senior class with a bang Saturday night, downing rival Michigan in a gutsy 5-3 effort in the CCHA sea­son finale. Five players scored for Notre Dame as the Irish rebounded from an early 2-0 hole in the brawling, bruising rivalry match on senior night. 
The win sets up a best-of-three series against Ohio State this weekend in the opening round of the CCHA tournament for Notre Dame. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson, whose team snapped a five-game winless streak, said he hopes the win will provide some momentum going into the play­offs. 
“I hope we can build upon this,” Jackson said. “We’re going to be on the road in the first round and that’s going to be challenging, but, regardless of who we play, we’re going to have to get goaltending and play good defensively and play with more discipline than we have been.” 
The Irish, dressed in Kelly green sweaters for senior night, fell behind only seconds into the game when junior Wolverine for­ward Louie Caporusso fired a wrist shot over freshman goal­keeper Mike Johnson’s shoulder on Michigan’s first shot of the game. The Wolverines extended 
see JACKSON/page 17 





