Photo Illustration by Blair Chemidlin and Pat Coveney 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 23, 2010 
COMMENTARY 

Don’t expect to see whole new system just yet 
The helmets will still be gold. The weather will still be awful. The field will probably still be 100 yards. 
That’s about all that will be familiar Saturday as fans get their first glimpse of the new Notre Dame team, with a different coach on the sidelines Laura Myers and a dif­ferent quar-
Sports Writer 
terback leading the huddle. 
Supporters will head to the Blue-Gold Game looking for proof that change is not always a bad thing. 
But at this point, the Irish have nothing to prove. 
It would be a stretch to say that Irish coach Brian Kelly has installed a new offense and defense for the scrimmage. A more accurate statement is that Kelly has begun to install his new scheme and the players have begun to learn it. The entire breadth of the new sys­tems certainly won’t be seen Saturday. The coaches seem hopeful that a majority of the new offense will be installed in time for Purdue in September. 
Most of the spring practices were spent getting players used to the speed of practice and teaching them about expecta­tions. “Progress” meant being able to go all-out for 75 active minutes of a two-hour practice. On Saturday, it will be the same; the team will be expected to go full-speed through the first half, but may need to tone it down for the second. 
The defense won’t be given full rein during the game, either. That’s for good reason, as it would be irresponsible to allow an important offensive player to get hurt in a game that doesn’t matter. But it means that sophomore line­backer Manti Te’o, one of the more entertaining players on the defense, probably won’t be making any massive hits, nor will any others. 
Junior quarterback Dayne Crist, recovering from off-sea­son knee surgery, will play but has admitted that he is not at 100 percent. Junior tight end Kyle Rudolph, recovering from off-season shoulder injury, will be used sparingly. 
The same goes for junior line­backer Darius Fleming and sophomore wide receiver Theo Riddick, both of whom will be important figures in the fall.  
In short, the spring game will be absent much of the excite­ment a real game would bring, in terms of interesting game plans, big tackles and star play­ers. 
Through 13 practices, the same words have sprung up over and over. “Evaluation,” the coaches said. “Competition,” the players translated. 
And that won’t change by Saturday. The glorified practice will certainly showcase some of Notre Dame’s excellent talent, but it will really be nothing more than a couple extra hours of film for the coaches to dis­sect leading into the summer session.  
It might allow them to make a decision on whether senior 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Wide receiver Tai-ler Jones, an early enrollee, is one of many Irish looking to use Saturday’s Blue-Gold Game to impress Brian Kelly and the new coaching staff one more time before spring practice ends. 
Taylor Dever and junior Trevor need preseason camp. We’re have something to prove. But Robinson should play right going to need all our time.” not yet. guard or right tackle. Or Kelly was speaking specifical-The Blue-Gold Game will cer­whether freshman receiver Tai-ly about the wide receiver situ-tainly be exciting for anyone ler Jones is ready to line up ation, but his message applies looking to see Brian Kelly in opposite Michael Floyd. It might to every aspect of Notre Dame’s action. But it won’t hold any allow them to answer 1,000 team as it stands. indication of what this team is other little questions. The Irish need all the time capable of. 
Or it could answer nothing at they can get, and it seems clear And it shouldn’t. all. from the spring that Kelly will 
In his last scheduled inter-use that time wisely. After a The views expressed in this view before the Blue-Gold summer of hard conditioning column are those of the author, Game, Kelly had little to say and a grueling camp in August, and not necessarily those of about a depth chart. when the new recruits have The Observer. 
“We need more time,” he been added and more of an Contact Laura Myers at said. “We need all summer, we offense installed, the team will lmyers2@nd.edu 
MEETS 

parachute 
with the carter twins 
legends 4/24 10 PM no cover charge. ND/SMC/HC ID required 
Friday, April 23, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 



‘They’re here for Notre Dame’ 
Kelly emphasizes physical, mental toughness as he prepares players for roles on field, in community 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
When Brian Kelly was first introduced as Notre Dame’s football coach on Dec. 11, he said he wanted “tough gentle­men” who would represent the University on and off the field. Irish players in need of an example should look no further than their head coach. 
In his first four months on campus, Kelly has made a noticeable effort to increase his program’s visibility within the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. To do so, he’s spo­ken at a variety of campus events, ranging from home bas­ketball games to the Junior Parents Weekend Closing Brunch to a student government meeting earlier this week. 
Kelly said his program will be “a part of what makes Notre Dame special,” something he said may not have entirely been the case before he arrived. So he’s made an effort to be “approachable” and has empha­sized that his players will be true student-athletes and mem­bers of the University communi­ty. 
That’s the gentleman: Always in a suit, looking and sounding more like a polished, personable politician than a hard-nosed coaching veteran charged with resurrecting the country’s most storied football program. 
Walk toward the LaBar Practice Complex, though, and by the time you reach the Jordan Hall of Science, you’ll start to hear that gentleman barking orders as he demands the furious tempo and attention to detail he knows are vital to success after 20 years as a head coach. For those who have worked with Kelly, there’s no doubt he’s got the “tough” part down, too. 
“If you were going to a street fight, you’d ask Coach to come with you, because he’s a rugged guy. That’s who he is,” Irish defensive coordinator Bob Diaco said. “Put the ball down, ‘mano y mano,’ let’s go. Separate the men from the boys, so to speak, and let’s just see who’s tougher and who’s ready to knock a guy off the ball. That’s really who he is, in his core.” 
And on the field, that’s what Kelly demands from his players 
— and it permeates through every aspect of his program, beginning with recruiting and ending with the finished product on Saturdays in the fall. 
“There are tenants that must be followed for you to win, and the easiest way to describe what those are would be mental and physical toughness,” Kelly told The Observer in an exclusive interview April 15. “If you don’t have mental and physical tough­ness, then you probably won’t be a guy I can count on.” 
Finding the ‘RKG’ 
There were once questions about whether the University’s tough academic standards inhib­ited Notre Dame’s ability to attract top-flight talent, but for­mer coach Charlie Weis dis­missed those by consistently reigning in highly touted players from around the nation. 
Still, Kelly said he hears other schools “negative-recruit” his program by telling high school players they’ll have to work too hard to stay academically eligi­ble at Notre Dame. 
“If we’re going to lose kids that way, I’m glad we’re losing them,” Kelly said. “I want guys that understand if you come here, you’re going to get a pow­erful brand in Notre Dame on your degree. But on the flip side, you’ve got to work for it. That’s the kind of guy I want: some­body who recognizes the value of what makes this unique, and that’s academics and athletics.” 
While those academic demands do trim the list of play­ers the Irish can target, Kelly and his staff have cast a much wider net than the previous regime, in terms of offering scholarships to high school prospects. With a limited num­ber of available scholarships — roughly 20 per year — it remains to be seen whether this strategy will prove successful, but it’s clear the new staff is put­ting in the work necessary to recruit effectively. 
Kelly said that effort, coupled with Notre Dame’s national recognition, will enable the staff to recruit coast to coast to find players with “the right kind of intrinsic values we need.” 



“Notre Dame is not meant for everybody, and when they rate high school students, they don’t give you four or five stars because you fit the model of Notre Dame,” Kelly said. “Somebody’s got to have more than four or five stars to impress us because we want more than that.” 
To assess those attributes, Kelly said his staff must develop a relationship with not only the recruit himself, but also with his family and coaches, through campus visits and consistent correspondence. Kelly’s assis­tants get to know a player before assessing him within a standardized ranking system (detailed in the graphic at bot­tom left), and before Kelly will 
“We need to care about Our Lady. We need to care about Notre Dame,” Kelly said. “When I got here, our guys thought about themselves first, then their family, then their team­mates, then Notre Dame. I want them to flip that. They’re here for Notre Dame, first and fore­most, and that’s really the para­digm shift for our players. They’ve got to care about each other and understand why they’re here.” 
That means both on and off the field. Kelly said that begin­ning next fall, the entire team will attend every pep rally and “be involved with them.” When his players have free time, Kelly said they will participate in campus programs and commu­nity service events while 
sign an official  “Notre Dame is not  also becoming  
scholarship offer to a player, the position coach,  meant for everybody, and when they rate  “more involved in church and chapel.”  
the coordinator and the lead recruiter for the player’s geo­ high school students, they don’t give you four or five stars because  That same concept of d e m a n d i n g more has  
graphical loca­tion must all approve.  you fit the model of Notre Dame. ”  extended to the practice field this spring.  
So, for a run­ning back from  Brian Kelly  Though has at  Kelly times  
Chicago,  run- Irish coach  been  publicly  
ning  backs  tough  on  his  
coach  Tim  team, he said  
Hinton,  offen­ the  players  

sive coordinator Charley Molnar have begun to grasp not only and lead Chicago recruiter the new offensive and defensive Chuck Martin would all have to schemes, but also the attitude approve based on “a detailed they are expected to take with profile players must pass to even them every day. get to my desk,” Kelly said. “I’d call it conscious compe­
“It’d be easy to just look at tence where we are now. They film, but that doesn’t tell the know what we’re asking, they’re whole story,” he said. trying to do it every day, but it’s “Character, academics — those really hard,” Kelly said. “We things are part of it. All the want to get to unconscious com-things that I believe, in my 20 petence, where it’s habit and years of being a head coach, is they don’t have to think about it. the right kind of guy. And that’s They know what to expect when a guy I know I can coach, I know they go on the field, they know I can develop, and I know I can how I want them to practice and get to play championship foot-how I want them to compete.” ball.” That learning process hasn’t 
always been comfortable for the ‘Notre Dame, first and foremost’ players. Kelly said junior center 
The future success of the Irish Braxston Cave, for example, program will largely depend on struggled with his shotgun the new staff’s ability recruit, snaps during the first week of but Kelly and his assistants are practice. also hard at work developing “Every time he had a bad their current players in prepa-snap, I made sure he heard me. ration for the 2010 season. It got to the point where we just While the physical element of pulled him out,” Kelly said. “We the equation is certainly impor-were hard on him, but we tant, Kelly said there was an haven’t had a bad snap since.” attitude adjustment that needed Kelly said he made it clear to be made as well. during his first several team meetings that he’d be tough on all his players, but he also knows there’s a line — he even invoked the old “beating a dead horse” cliché. 
“You’ve got to be careful about what you’re getting on a guy for, and you’ve got to know that what you’re demanding is going to help them be a better football player,” Kelly said. “I don’t need to hear, ‘well, he doesn’t handle criticism.’ I’m not talking about criticism, I’m talking about doing it the right way. 
“We’re talking about attention to detail and skill development. It cuts across all. If you’re thin-skinned, you’re either going to get tougher skin or you’re prob­ably not going to make it.” 
‘Enthusiastic, collegiate’ 
Hope springs eternal, and that’s seemingly never been as accurate as it’s been over the past few weeks near the Guglielmino Athletics Complex, where excitement for the 2010 season has already begun to build. 
“Enthusiastic, collegiate. Play their tails off for four quarters and at the end of the day, we’ll figure out what the scoreboard says,” Kelly said of what fans will see out of the Irish next fall. “You won’t come to a game and see our guys play flat or unin­spired. They’ll be passionate about what they’re doing or they won’t be out on the field. 
“At the end of the day, if the person that sits in those stands can see their team, their col­league, their buddy, their dorm mate go out and play his heart out for Notre Dame, I’ve done my job.” 
Those in attendance Saturday won’t necessarily see a sophisti­cated game plan, a bevy of bone-crunching collisions or an array of over-the-top emotion. But, in a way, there might be no better venue to see the kind of “tough gentlemen” Kelly has begun to mold in his first four months at Notre Dame. 
“I’m a real believer that there’s some things you won’t do against your own teammates that you may do in a game against Purdue,” Kelly said with a smile. “That means we would pull back a little bit of that emo­tion because we don’t want to be showing up one of our own teammates. But guys will be competing. It’ll be fun.” 

Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 23, 2010 




BLUE-GOLD 
Projected 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

Friday, April 23, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 


D GAME 2010 
depth chart 

ons by Observer beat writers Matt Gamber, Laura Myers and Douglas Farmer. 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 23, 2010 

Jones, Rees lead early enrollees into college 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Freshman early enrollee Tai­ler Jones has spent as much time taking snaps with the first team offense as he has with the second, yet Irish coach Brian Kelly and his coaching staff don’t mind reminding Jones that he is, in many ways, still a high school senior. 
“He’s still got the tassel on the car window from graduation. He’s just a young kid,” Kelly said after Saturday’s practice. “He’s got a chance to be a player for us and can contribute this year, but his work volume really tapers off.” 
Jones and the four other early enrollees — quarterback Tommy Rees and defensive backs Chris Badger, Spencer Boyd and Lo Wood — have all needed to adapt to a change in lifestyle, both on and off the field. The fact that they can handle that change sets them a apart, wide receivers coach Tony Alford said. 
“I think it takes a special young guy to come in at s e m e s t e r. 
lege in the middle of spring foot­ball practice.” 
They’re also on a new campus taking college classes at one of America’s toughest academic universities. 
“Coming from high school, it is different in college life,” Rees said with a chuckle. “You have to find out where your classes are, how to get there ... You just have to make sure your time is divid­ed up equally, find the balance between football and school.” 
That balance can be tough to find when you also need to absorb a playbook Kelly has spent 20 years crafting, but, in a way, the early enrollees have an advantage over the rest of the team in this regard, offensive coordinator Charley Molnar said. 
“I think being a blank slate is a good thing from the standpoint that the techniques, play calls and all the things that we do are so different from what the previ­ous system was,” Molnar said. “They don’t have to have two systems in their heads.” 
But they still do need to adjust to a BCS-level practice. Throughout his rise up the depth chart, the coach­ing staff routinely criticized Jones for 


You’ve got to  “[Tai-ler’s] still got the  a  lack  of  
be a little more mature for your years to come in,”  tassel on the car window from graduation. He’s just a  endurance — something Jones does not dispute. “The biggest  
Alford said earlier in the  young kid.”  surprise was the intensity at prac­ 
s p r i n g . “These guys  Brian Kelly  tice, and how they treat practices like  
right  now,  Irish coach  the games,” Jones  
their buddies  said.  “It  really  
are  getting  comes  down  to  
ready  for  pushing  myself  

prom. They’re trying to pay more during practice, pushing somebody to be their date, and through that wall. In high school these guys are stuck here at col-I never really got fatigued.” 
In that regard, enrolling early may have been the only solution, Molnar said. 
“There is no question, [enrolling early] has helped him a lot,” he said. “Going through winter workouts, getting with [strength and conditioning coach Paul Longo], getting with the quarterbacks and the other receivers. There is no way he would be ready to play if he came in August.” 
Come August, Molnar said Rees could also contribute, knowing Kelly’s penchant for playing many quarterbacks for various reasons. 
“He really is made for a spread offense,” Molnar said. “He’s got a quick release, he makes very quick decisions, has quick feet in the pocket. From that standpoint, I think he’s got a real chance to be a player here at Notre Dame.” 
The chance to contribute is why the early enrollees left behind graduation ceremonies and prom dates, Jones said. 
“When I hit campus, my plan was to make the best of every chance I get, and help the team in any way to win, whether it is on special teams, or second or third on the depth chart,” he said. “Whatever I could do.” 
At the least, Jones, Rees and the three defensive backs impressed their coaches with their decision, Alford said. 
“It takes a mature guy to do that,” he said. “They’re all doing a good job, and I’m proud of them.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 




New staff gives receivers chance to compete 

er Golden Tate. 

By LAURA MYERS 
“You’re going to compete, 
Sports Writer 
either way, no matter who’s here,” Kamara said. “We had 

If recent practices are any Golden Tate last year, guys had indication, the first three wide to compete. They have to com-receivers fans will see Saturday pete now. It’s no different. We will be junior Michael Floyd, have a bunch of talented guys. senior Duval Kamara and early-You just have to go out there enrollee freshman Tai-ler and do what you have to do Jones. But many others are each day.” competing for playing time, While Jones only arrived on playing time that wide receivers campus in January, he has 
coach  Tony  already made a  
Alford  said  is  name  for him- 
anything but secure. “We’ll see. Guys have to  “You’re going to compete, either way, no matter who’s here  self, something Alford said was not surprising. “He’s a com- 
keep  making  ... We have a bunch of  petitive guy and  
plays,” Alford said. “It’s an  talented guys.”  that’s why we recruited him,”  
ongoing process, and just because  Duval Kamara  Alford said. “We didn’t recruit  
you’re  there  Irish wide receiver  him  to  come  

doesn’t mean you’ll be there the next day or if you’re not there doesn’t mean you won’t be there the next day.” 
Junior John Goodman and sophomores Theo Riddick and Shaq Evans look to be the next three competing for a spot on the first team. 
As a freshman in 2007, Kamara set receiving records for total receptions and touch­down receptions by a freshman with 32 and four, respectively. His role decreased in the fol­lowing years, however, as he had to compete with Floyd — who broke both records in 2008 
— and with former Irish receiv­here and sit 
down, we recruited him to compete and that’s what he’s doing.” 
The conversion of the offense from a pro-style offense to a spread offense should allow for more opportunities for the backup receivers to make plays and distinguish themselves. 
“You just have to step up and take on the challenge of the new offense, a different offense,” Kamara said. “Just retaining all the plays and everything, you just have to step up and go along with it like you’ve been running the offense for three years.” 
Goodman caught six passes for 104 yards in 2009, seeing action in nine games. Evans caught seven passes for 61 yards in six games. Riddick, a running back in 2009, played in all 12 games and caught six passes for 43 yards. Goodman has played with the first unit at times during spring practice, but all three have spent most of their time with the second team. 
“I think that all those guys have done a great job of com­peting and really taking the time off the field to learn every­thing and then apply their knowledge off the field to what we’re doing on the field,” junior quarterback Dayne Crist said. “They’ve all got very unique skill sets and they definitely offer something different, but I know they share the commonal­ity of wanting to compete and be on the field. 
“Seeing the competitiveness of those guys is really positive and something you want to see at the quarterback spot.” 
Crist said he has had time to work with all of the receivers in order to establish timing and rhythm with each one, which he said is critical no matter who is on the field. 
“It’s good knowing that you’re going to get the cream of the crop at the end of the day and you’re going to get the most competitive guys out there,” he said. 

Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Friday, April 23, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 



Switch should benefit both Wood and Riddick 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
In one of his first public per­sonnel decisions in early March, Irish coach Brian Kelly said he would move sopho­more Theo Riddick from run­ning back to wide receiver to clear room in the backfield for, among others, Cierre Wood. 
Riddick was second to only 
Golden Tate in all -purpose yards for the Irish last sea­son, as he racked up 160 yards rushing, 43 receiving and 849 returning kicks as a true freshman. Wood, on the other hand, never saw the field in his rookie cam-offense fits me perfect.” 
Running backs coach Tim Hinton said Wood has made significant progress given the increased workload this spring. 
“Cierre’s had a really solid spring and he’s getting better every day,” Hinton said. “He’s the rawest of the guys we have, but he got the fewest reps of anybody coming in here. He has more develop­ment to do than most, but he 
“[Wood] has more development to do than most, but he wants to be good and he understands what it’s going to take for him to be good.” 
Tim Hinton Irish assistant coach 
paign — something the new staff wanted to change to ensure the Irish used as many of their playmakers as possi­ble. 
“It’s been a good opportuni­ty, just learning the offense and everything that comes with it,” Wood said. “I’m real comfortable with it. I’m so versatile, they can line me up as a receiver, in the slot — either way, I’m going to do my thing, period. I think this wants to be good and he understands what it’s going 
to  take  for  
him  to  be  
good.”  

For Riddick, while his posi­tion has changed, his indi vid ual coach hasn’t. Wide receivers coach Tony Alford 
coached the running backs last year and was the only assistant retained from Charlie Weis’ staff. He said Riddick is far from a finished project but has shown prom­ise in his first few weeks at receiver. 
“He’s still learning some things,” Alford said. “He’s got to pay attention to the details of the game, nuances of the routes, getting in and out of breaks and things like that. 

But he’s coming along.” 
Though Riddick is the only running back to have made an official position switch this spring, Hinton said the new offense demands every run­ning back be capable of split­ting out and catching passes. 
“Those guys are going to learn how to be wide receivers, and they’re in the development stage in that,” Hinton said. “Listen, if you’ve got the post route and you’re the back, run that post route like you’re the best receiver in America and catch it like you’re the best receiver in America, because that one opportunity might win us a game.” 
Even with Riddick’s move, the running back position will still be one of the most com­petitive on the roster, with Armando Allen, Robert Hughes and Jonas Gray all returning after contributing last season. 
“Competition makes us all better, and they all want to play,” Hinton said. “I told my guys very honestly, if you’re selfish and really worried about playing time, or num­bers of runs or catches, or you see a buddy mess up and you’re almost happy he messed up instead of coaching him better, you’re the wrong guy for us. The bottom line is this is about us winning.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Recruits visit campus before, during weekend 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Throughout its first month on campus, the Irish coaching staff focused on the recruiting class that will join Notre Dame in the coming fall. As soon as National Signing Day passed in February, the coaches refocused their efforts on making up the ground lost in recruiting battles for members of the high school Class of 2011. 
“We were way behind after Signing Day ... It wasn’t just get­ting through last recruiting sea­son, it was starting our next one,” recruiting coordinator Chuck Martin said. “We’ve caught up to a large extent, and now we’ve just got to keep plowing away. I really feel like we’ve closed the gap.” 
With about a dozen recruits vis­iting campus for the Blue-Gold Game, this weekend could be a big step in closing that gap Irish recruiting analyst Mike Frank said. 
“This is going to be a pretty exciting weekend for Notre Dame,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN-affiliated website irish­sportsdaily.com. “There are some big-time players coming in, and there is a chance they could get some commitments this week­end.” 
Chicago-area wide receiver DaVaris Daniels could potentially commit this weekend. He is one of the most-sought after players in the country, and his offer list includes the likes of Alabama, Cincinnati and Michigan. 
“[Daniels] fits perfectly into Brian Kelly’s system,” Frank said. 
“They aren’t going to take a whole lot of wide receivers in this class, maybe two at the most. So getting his commitment would be pretty big, and allow them to focus on other positions.” 
The most likely to commit before leaving campus this week­end is linebacker Jarrett Grace, from Cincinnati. 
Linebacker Sean Duggan, another Cincinnati native, and offensive lineman Conor Hanratty were both raised on Irish football lore by fathers who graduated from Notre Dame. Hanratty’s father, Terry Hanratty, quarter­backed the Irish to the 1966 National Championship. 
“[Conor is] coming this week­end, and I think he gets in Thursday, so he’ll be here awhile,” Frank said. “Who knows if he’ll pull the trigger or not, but I think Notre Dame has a real good chance at landing him.” 
Quarterback Bubba Starling vis­ited the Irish early in the week, departing Tuesday, and afterward listed Notre Dame as one of the top five schools he is considering, along with Alabama, Kansas, Nebraska and Oklahoma. 
“I think Notre Dame would like to get a quarterback,” Frank said. “I think he’s a guy that they’re pretty high on. They really like him a lot, a tremendous talent that needs to be fine tuned a little bit.” 
Cornerback Matthias Farley also visited earlier in the week and committed to Notre Dame Wednesday. 

Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 23, 2010 




