the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Off-campus students experience break-ins 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Senior Erin McNeill knew something was wrong when she walked downstairs at midnight in her off-campus house and noticed the screen on her open window was also open. 
“I still wasn’t freaked out, so I walked back upstairs and asked if anyone had opened the screen,” she said. 
McNeill was home with her three roommates and a room­mate’s boyfriend, senior Kevin Dacey, on Sept. 12, working upstairs on home­work when someone entered through a downstairs window, stealing an iPod and two sets of speakers. 
McNeill said Dacey went downstairs to check on things. 
“Kevin came downstairs and grabbed a ski pole, ” McNeill said. “He walked into our dining room, where we have a cabinet and saw a guy crouched in all black.” 
She said Dacey then came back upstairs and warned the girls to call the police and lock themselves in their room. While upstairs they heard the back door slam as the burglar left the home. 
“The police showed up real­ly quickly,” she said. “I would say it took 30 seconds. We’re very impressed with the police response.” 
This robbery hasn’t been an isolated incident. According to police reports sent by the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) and com­piled by Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), there have been six crimes involving bur­glary or home invasion of off-campus student housing, as well as one crime of robbery of a student, since the school year began. 
Sergeant Pat Hechlinski of the SBPD Crime Prevention Unit said he compiles these reports for NDSP, searching through police reports daily and pulling the ones he believes involve students. He then speaks with NDSP Crime Prevention Officer Keri Kei Shibata, who confirms whether the victims are stu­dents. 


“What we try to do is keep [off -campus students] as informed as best as possible of what’s happening to stu­dents,” Hechlinski said. 
He said there is one beat car patrolling the area near campus, as well as four beat cars patrolling the northeast side of South Bend. He said the only crimes against stu­dents the SBPD is aware of are the ones taking place within the city limits. 
“If students are living off-campus, they need to be aware of their surroundings,” he said. 
Hechlinski said he recom­mends students introduce themselves to their neighbors, as well as keeping doors locked while at home and 
see BREAK/page 5 



Increased parking ratesraisequestions 


By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Awareness and cooperation are the two things that Director of Security Dave Gariepy said can prevent stu­dents from receiving security issued traffic and parking citations. 
A recent increase in cost of vehicle registration has lead to student speculation; howev­er, Gariepy assures students that inflated cost is not a ploy to reduce the number of driv-
GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
ers on campus. 
“We were significantly 
undercharging for campus 
parking privileges as com­
pared to other colleges,” 
Gariepy said. “The rates will 
be raised $10 per year for full 
academic year, on-campus 
registrants until the fee reach­
es $100.00.” 
The money from the regis­
trations fees goes into the 
College’s general fund. 
Despite the increased price 
of vehicle registration, 
see PARKING/page 5 


Band competes for a ‘good cause’ 

YUE WU/The Observerr The Notre Dame Marching Band performs thier Hawaii Five-O routine at the halftime of the Michigan game on Sept. 11. The band entered the performance into a competition on CBS. 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 

Even when the first half of a Notre Dame football game concludes and the scoreboard isn’t Irish-friendly, students and fans can always rely on the Fighting Irish band to perform at halftime. 
Now, the Notre Dame Marching Band is hoping the entire country will be able to see one of their unique rou­tines on national television and raise money for a good cause along the way. 
The band is one of 18 colle­giate marching bands com­peting in CBS’s “Hawaii Five-O Marching Band Mania” contest, where university and college bands from across the country arrange, choreo­graph and film an original performance to the theme of the classic television show, “Hawaii Five-O.” 
The contest was organized by CBS to coincide with the network’s premiere of the reboot of the drama, but the famous theme song has been a favorite of marching bands for several years. 
“We actually had planned on performing the song this year before the contest,” Assistant Band Director 
see BAND/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Power plant sets new energy goals page 3  Now and then: food page 11  Football press wrap page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 29, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SONG BEST DESCRIBES YOUR LI E RIGHT NOW?
THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Alicia Smith Alan Joseph Melissa Flanagan Cory Bernard 
Graphics Scene 
Gaspar Garcia de Jordan Gamble Paredes Viewpoint Photo Madeline Roe Coleman Collins 
OFFBEAT 
Gym culture not working out for French 
PARIS – The French may love to look good but few are willing to work up a sweat over it. 
Despite increasing aware­ness of the benefits of healthy eating and physical exercise, going to the gym in France is still a niche activity that has yet to capture the mainstream. 
France's generous health­care system, its cultural preference for outdoor sports and its lack of afford­able good-quality clubs are seen as reasons behind the country's low rate of gymgo­ers, even relative to laid-back neighbors Spain or Italy. 
"It appears to me that 

Thomas Meyer  Jessie Bretl  Dominic Romeo  Chris Rhodenbaugh  Carissa Brownotter  
freshman  sophomore  freshman  senior  senior  
Dillon  Lyons  Keough  off campus  Cavanaugh  

“Like a G6 “Last Dance “California “Pursuit of “Calabria by because Dillon with Mary Jane Gurls… I’m Happiness by Enur.” 3A runs on its by Tom Petty.” from Kid Cudi.” own schedule.” California.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

more people are sitting in cafes smoking cigarettes and drinking coffee than working out ... the French don't see fitness as a lifestyle," says American-born fitness con­sultant Fred Hoffman, who has lived in Paris for 21 years. 
Three jailed for planning to scam tourists 
LONDON – Three people have been jailed for carrying out a scam to steal from more than 100 Japanese tourists in central London, police said on Tuesday. 
The gang targeted tourists at attractions such as the British Museum and the Oxford Street shopping area. 
One, a woman, would pose as a tourist and ask a gen­uine visitor for directions or to take a photo for her. Other gang members would then approach and pretend to be police officers and demand details of the tourists' identi­ty and credit cards. 
The woman would comply and encourage the genuine tourists to do so as well. The group would then take the cards and withdraw cash or make expensive purchases. 
Detectives said the group was responsible for more than 70 offences while the Japanese Embassy said it had received more than 100 reports of such thefts or attempted thefts carried out against Japanese nationals. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The program Peace of Mind: The Art of Mindful Relaxation will take place today at 4:05 
p.m. in the Saint Liam Hall Conference Room. Learning mindfulness can help you to manage stress and clear your mind. The program is free and is open to all students, faculty, and staff. 
The Postgraduate Service Fair will take place today from 5 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Concourse. Representatives from over 75 service programs will be present at this year's event. 
Walsh Hall will sponsor the Mr. Notre Dame Pageant in the LaFortune Ballroom tonight at 7:30 p.m. Come watch as contestants from nine men's dorms strut their stuff to compete for the title of Mr. ND. 
FTT Talks presents Natalija Nogulich, Actress and Director, tomorrow at 6 p.m. Ms. Nogulich has taught acting and directing for over thirty years, and currently teaches at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, California. The lecture will take place in room 160 in Mendoza School of Business. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theater pres­ents "The Bible: The Complete Word of God" (abridged). The play will be performed tomor­row at 7:30 p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre. This produc­tion puts the fun back in fun­damentalism with a madcap trip through old time religion. Tickets are $10 for all students and can be purchased online or by calling the Ticket Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



71 62 HIGH 6964 5554
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


53 53 LOW 4944 3938 






Wednesday, September 29, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Band 
continued from page 1 
Emmett O’Leary said. “The song is a classic marching band tune and it worked well for us because there’s a lot you can do with it.” 
The online contest, which takes place at cbscolleges­ports.com, fea­tures videos in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The performance was high­lighted by Band Director Dr. Ken Dye’s musical arrange­ment, which featured the band members arranging them­selves into a volcano — com­plete with smoke — and the leprechaun on a surfboard. 
“Tons of different schools submitted film for this compe­tition,” senior head drum major Glynnis Garry said. “I 
from all of the think we have 
“The song is a 
competing a really good 
classing marching
bands. Fans can shot of win-vote once a day band tune and it ning. Our show for their favorite is really cre­
worked well for us 
band. ative and the 
because there’s a lot 
When the con-arrangement is test concludes you can do with it.” one of the best on Oct. 4, the arrangements band with the we’ve had in a
Emmett O’Leary 
most votes will long time.” 
assistant band director 
The Notre receive $25,000 and the video of their performance will run on CBS. 
The Notre Dame band sub­mitted a video from the half­time show they performed at Michigan State, which was identical to the halftime per­formance from the week before at the Michigan game 


Dame Band’s video on the website had more than 37,000 views as of Tuesday night, making it one of the highest viewed perform­ances in the contest. While band members would love to win the contest and receive all the recognition that comes with the success, most are hoping Notre Dame wins so that they can give back to the community. 
“The Notre Dame band has stated from the beginning that if we win, the $25,000 will go to our charity programs,” Garry said. 
The band is involved in two separate programs, but both involve bringing music into the elementary school classroom. 
“We have our own Bandlink programs, where one is run through the Salvation Army for the public schools in the area and the other one we do ourselves for the Catholic schools,” senior assistant drum major Tim Zintak said. 
O’Leary said without these charitable programs, the schools band members visit wouldn’t have instruments or the lessons the members pro­vide to the students. 
“We have the students and a couple of staff members go to these underserved areas of town,” O’Leary said. “We’ve also supplied instruments to students in Jamaica through some international groups. There are several great things we could do with this money.” 
The desire to give the money back to the community is one of the driving forces behind the band members trying to get the student body and alumni involved in the voting process. 
A few band members creat­ed a Facebook event titled “Vote for ND Band!” which asks students and other mem­bers of the Notre Dame family to vote everyday for the Band of the Fighting Irish’s submis­sion. 
“We make an announcement every day to keep voting because everyone is really excited about winning and contributing to the South Bend community in this way,” Garry said. 
Zintak said he believes the contest is a perfect opportuni­ty for the Notre Dame Marching Band to showcase their dedication to both their values and their art. 
“This contest really high­lights our commitment to serv­ice while exhibiting how well we perform,” he said. “I think that perfectly matches up the performance side with the service side that we think and hope the band should be.” 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 29, 2010 
Plant sets energy goals 
By NEIL O’DOUGHERTY 
News Writer 
To respond to the University’s financial needs and an increased sensitivity for the environment, Notre Dame’s utilities department has set many long -term goals to improve the University’s energy efficien­cy, Director of Utilities Paul Kempf said. 
The Notre Dame utilities plant on the north end of campus provides the University with many of its basic requirements for oper­ation such as heating, cool­ing and electricity. 
The plant uses three dif­ferent inputs, coal, natural gas and oil, to turn warm water into steam. The steam is used to turn the turbine on an electric generator and is in turn used again to pro­vide campus buildings with heat in the winter or steam for cooling in the summer. 
This process, because it simultaneously co-generates both power and heat, allows the plant to operate nearly twice as efficiently as most industrial plants, Kempf said. 
At both economic and environmental levels, the University improves efficien­cy by operating its own power plant, Kempf said. 
“A typical electric -only generating station is only 30-35 percent efficient in turning the heat from com­bustion into real work, ” Kempf said. “In our case, since we produce two useful forms of energy, we have a cycle efficiency that is on the order of 60 percent.” 
The plant, which exclu­sively serves campus, pro­vides the University with over half of its power sup­ply, all of its heating and chilled water. It also pro­duces the required inputs for buildings’ air condition­ing and hot water supplies. 
The plant has been operat­ing since 1931, when it began as just a heating plant. The facility expanded to produce electricity in 1953. 
In recent years, the plant has been undergoing con­stant improvements to increase its functionality and control its emissions, Kempf said. The plant fea­tures computer models that monitor operations and emissions. 
Recent upgrades include a new power plant control system platform, enhanced air-quality control systems and the installation of new and larger economizers on many of the boilers to reduce fuel consumption. 
The utilities department has also implemented many campus -wide initiatives. With the extensive growth in campus buildings in recent years, the department has offered engineering support to the Office of the University Architect for all new campus buildings and renovation projects. 
Such energy improvements have been manifested with the construction of several LEED -certified buildings, such as Geddes and Stinson-Remmick Halls. Renovations in other buildings conducted by the Utilities Department have included more efficient lighting system and heating, ventilation, and air condi­tioning (HVAC) upgrades. 
As a result, campus elec­trical demand has increased much less than its overall growth in operations. 
These efforts have allowed the University to improve its overall energy efficiency. By the end of June 2010, the reduction in the campus’ energy baseline since 2008 has been nearly eight per­cent for electricity and 10 percent for fuel input. 
“These savings have pro­vided both environmental and financial improvements for the University,” Kempf said. 
The department, in its supervision of the utilities plant and its overall func­tion, has set many goals for future improvement as well. 
“Our goals going forward are threefold: continue to be reliable, compliant and cost effective,” Kempf said. 
Contact Neil O’Dougherty at nodoughe@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s to hold annual charity walk 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s will host Light the Night, an annual walk in sup­port of the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society (LLS) Thursday, Carrie Call, director of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) said. 
Registration for the walk will begin at 5 p.m., and the walk will begin at 7 p.m. 
This is the fourth year the College will host Light the Night. Each year, students, faculty, staff and members of the com­munity gather together to raise funds and awareness for LLS. OCSE is sponsoring the event. 
“It’s a way to show our sup­port of and solidarity with those who are battling cancer,” Call said. 
The proceeds raised from the walk will support research on blood cancers, Call said. In addi­tion, the money will provide funding for patient services for local community members who are being treated for blood can­cers. 
“The purpose of hosting this event is to raise awareness about blood cancers and to give people the opportunity to walk in solidarity with those who are struggling with cancer,” she said. “It means a great deal to an individual when a whole team rallies around him or her and takes part in the walk.” 
According to Call, LLS approached the College with the intent to host the event on cam­pus. 
Call said the College saw the walk “as an opportunity to get the campus community involved with a great organization,” and decided to begin hosting the event annually. 
With more than 300 walkers expected to attend, Call said stu­dents have the opportunity to become involved with Light the Night in a variety of ways. 
“Students can get involved by walking and by raising money,” she said. “Even a few dollars makes a difference.” 
Students can also become involved by volunteering to help with the event. 
According to Call, Light the Night is an important event for several reasons. 
“First of all, raising awareness about serious medical issues is always a worthy cause,” Call said. “Secondly, it’s important for us as a faith-based college to demonstrate our solidarity with and support for those who are in need.” 
Call said students, faculty, staff and community members can register as an individual or as a team to participate in the walk. 
To register for the walk, visit www3.saintmarys.edu/ocse/cal­endar/ltn-form 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


page 5 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 29, 2010 
to take precaution,” he said. McNeill said Kramer helped 
Break 


have that there, “Part of preventing thefts. 
they don’t have the problem is the “[Residents] to come up to can talk to us 
residents need to 
your house to if anything know you got a take precaution.” happens, and new TV.” we can get 
Students involved with 
Mark Kramer 
should put the police, ” 
owner
themselves in she said. 
Kramer Properties 
the mindset of Security 
continued from page 1 
using porch lights at night. He also recommended stu­dents taking advantage of the off-campus student website, offcampus.nd.edu, which has a list of “Crime Alerts” and maps showing crime loca ­tions. 
He also said when students get new, larger electronics like laptops or large televi­sions, they should not lay the packaging outside. 
“We do have people that shop from the curb,” he said. “If they see you them after the burglary. 
“He fixed our fence and put up motion sensor lights,” she said. “We were also very impressed by how he responded very quickly.” 
Senior Claire Cotter, one of McNeill’s roommates, said Kramer also installed peep­holes into doors and fixed shutters on windows. 
Kristie Nozykowski, region­al properties manager for Clover Ridge and Clover Village, said she was not aware of any burglaries hap­pening on their properties, although there have been sev­eral bicycle 
criminals, Hechlinski said. Students should walk around outside of their housing, checking to see if any valuables are visible from the windows and to change the location of items if they are. 
Local off-campus housing owners are taking security into account, Mark Kramer, owner of Kramer Properties, said. McNeill and her room­mates rent from Kramer. 
“We try to take a proactive approach,” he said. 
Kramer properties have security systems installed as well as patrolling security from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. He said students should also be tak­ing an active approach to security. 
“Part of preventing the problem is the residents need measures in 
the properties 
include securi­ty alarms and systems, as well as added security during football weekends, Nozykowski said. 
McNeill said they were lucky to have so little taken and to be left unharmed. 
“Now we think [the burglar] was just a kid,” senior Katie Meunier, one of McNeill ’s roommates, said. “At the same time, we felt the securi­ty was missing.” 
The residents found a screen open Sunday — lucki­ly, McNeill said, the window was locked. 
“We’ll be more cautious from now on, that’s for sure,” Cotter said. 
Contact Tony Rivera at rrivera3@nd.edu 
available for off-campus stu­dent drivers. The remaining lots on campus are reserved 
Parking 
strictly for College faculty and continued from page 1 staff. Although citations are more Gariepy said the number of common at the beginning of registered vehicles is consis-the school year, Gariepy said tent with past years with this number will decrease as approximately 750 student students become more aware vehicles. of parking regulations. In addition to the 750 stu-Gariepy said good advice for dent vehicles on campus, students is to become familiar security also with the parking organized the restrictions in 
many faculty and staff vehi­ “The most common  orde r to avoid unwanted sanc­ 
cles.  citations are issued  tions.  
“The m o s t common cita­ti o ns a re issued w h en  when students park in faculty/staff spots and when  Students must also av o id an y p ark in g th at w o u ld b lock  
students park  students fail to  t raf fi c  l anes,  
in faculty/staff spots a n d when students  register their vehicles.”  access ra mps, c rossw alks o r t rash r ecept a- 
fail to register  c les.  Gr ass,  
thei r v eh i-cles,” Gariepy said.  Dave Gariepy director  si d ew al ks a n d an y yel low c urbs a r e al s o  
S t u d e n t  campus security  off limits.  
v eh icl es  a re  For  more  
a b le  to  p ark  information  on  
24  h o urs  in  campus parking  

the Angela Lot and the three and traffic, students can visit west rows and the single http://www3.saintmarys.edu/p south row of the Regina Lot. arking-and-traffic or contact The Angela Lot, the Regina Saint Mary’s security at secu-Lot, the Commuter Lot (locat-rity@saintmarys.edu ed north of the Science Lot) and the last three northern Contact Bridget Meade at rows of the Science Lot are bmeade01@saintmarys.edu 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, September 29, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Please, leave us football 
Watching the gold medal hockey game this winter between the United States and Canada, I surprisingly found myself pulling for the Canucks. Before you write me off as disloyal, let me explain myself. The United Mike Todisco States is the home of all things good; Sports W ire we have the Super Editor Bowl, Las Vegas and a Wal-Mart on every other city block. Olympic hock­ey is merely an afterthought. We already have so much; winning the gold just wouldn’t have been fair. 
Conversely, hockey transcends sports in Canada. It is a way of life, a national passion. Every four years, Canada has the chance to prove to the world that they are the best team on ice. The sport is intertwined with the history of Canada. Fans in Canada are knowledgeable and fer­vent about their hockey. If it were up to me, the United States would leave hockey to the country and fans that do it best: our neighbors to the north. 
In the same way that Canada has hockey, the University of Notre Dame has football. If Notre Dame weren’t a Catholic University, football would certainly be the school’s official reli­gion. Relics of Knute Rockne and Lou Holz are littered throughout campus, constantly reminding students of the unrivaled tradition that they are a part of. 
So when Stanford rolled in to cam­pus this past Saturday, I had one thought on my mind: Stanford, leave us football. Notre Dame students matriculate to South Bend from across the country for the privilege of experiencing four years of Irish foot­ball. We persevere through inhumane winter winds and rural isolation with the hopes for pigskin triumph. Our students deserve a winning football team. When the universe is in harmo­ny, the Irish obliterate the Cardinal. 
Students don’t attend Stanford to be a part of the football program; it takes a real headliner to even sell out a game in Palo Alto. Stanford stu­dents go to their university because it is a mainstay at the top of any rep­utable national ranking of universi­ties. Stanford hardly even takes foot­ball seriously. Their band plays on sinks and garbage pails, and their mascot is a tree that appears to be based off the drawings of an over imaginative six year old. The Cardinal never deserves to leave the hallowed grounds of Notre Dame Stadium with a win. 
However, Notre Dame still holds a unique place in the collegiate land­scape. We have both a prestigious academic reputation as well as a tra­ditionally strong football program. Notre Dame places abundant pride in this distinction. Sure, there may be a few “better” schools out there according to various rankings, but we could always prove our superiority on the football field. Now Stanford is encroaching on our identity, and they don’t even seem to care. 
So Stanford, take your sunglasses and textbooks and head back to the California sunshine with a win this time. But as the Kelly era continues in the coming years, please, just leave football to the university and students who do it best. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

Life in the Genomic Age 
Ten years ago, the Human Genome Project was completed. Many scientists toiled for years to complete the project, which involved determining all three billion base pairs of DNA that make up a human being. Like the great col-Edward A. laborative quests Larkin of the past, such as 
Scientifc 
sending a man to the moon, the N otation Human Genome Project was a tes­tament to what can be achieved through a national will and a unifying goal. And while new revelations about the way our genes work and how they are modified are produced constantly, the sequencing of the genome still rep­resents a milestone in the history of science and a time to reflect upon the broader issues raised by such an inti­mate understanding of ourselves. 
Ten years later, where are we? As the New York Times pointed out in a recent article, the promised medical revolutions afforded by the Human Genome Project, so called “personal­ized medicine” have not materialized. While a few vocal critics doubt it will ever yield important medical knowl­edge, there is much hope for optimism. A project with such massive scale nec­essarily produces benefits only after an initial period of learning how to handle and analyze the data effectively. As Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, said, “we invari­ably overestimate the short-term impacts of new technologies and underestimate their longer-term effects.” 
A few years ago, it would have cost a million dollars to have your own per­sonal genome sequenced. In the very near future, it will drop below $1000. It’s hard to underplay the significance of this — for a little more than the price of an iPad, you will have access to essentially every single piece of DNA that gave rise to the person staring back at you in the mirror. 
As sequencing becomes more accu-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

rate and cheap, and the underlying genetics of diseases become more apparent, the ethical issues of genome sequencing will intensify correspond­ingly. If it is found in the future that a child has all the genetic hallmarks of early-onset Alzheimer’s, or an increased propensity towards Huntington’s disease, should he or she be told? Living one’s entire life with this knowledge would certainly be a psychological burden, one that no one should feel too keen to force upon another. At the same time, it also does not seem right that such information should be hidden. 
Such information could also easily be used for good. If a young girl finds out that she is especially susceptible to breast cancer, she could make lifestyle changes (skip the tanning beds) and get frequent mammograms. One can envision a (perhaps overly idealistic) future when the genetic predisposi­tions of people to certain diseases are known far in advance of the onset of the diseases, leading to proactive, effi­cient medicine, helping both patients themselves and lowering medical costs. 
The most important question, howev­er, is philosophical. What are we to make of humanity in the genomic age? Are we just AGCTTGACT, and millions of other sequences like it, interacting with the environment in different ways? Is there still room for human­ism; for morality; for a sense of self-determination? Because we have an extra base here and a large deletion there, did that fate us to be left with that uncomfortably large nose? Does it make us less smart than the student next to us in class, more inclined towards religiosity? Is the very way we think, the ultimate prize of our autono­my, skewed one way or another? 
In a word, yes. However, this sort of fatalism is undermined in the world. Michael Jordan obviously had the genetics necessary to be one of the greatest basketball players ever. But he was also the 15 year old who got cut from his high school basketball team. People quit smoking, lose hun­dreds of pounds permanently and kick drug habits. 
Someone once told me that love was a myth. I inquired as to why, and he responded that it was just a release of the hormone oxytocin (a bit of a simpli­fication itself). But no one ever claimed that love is some magical feeling that has no basis in reality, invalidated by the fact that the hormone oxytocin mediates feelings of attachment. Quite the opposite. It’s the decision to sacri­fice your own self-interest for someone else, to commit yourself to that person fully. If these choices are mediated by oxytocin biologically, so what? Obviously there is a biological basis for it. 
The same is true with the genome. We are physically real — we’ve known for a long time that we have cells and genes. If we find out later that we have genes that make us confident or timid, what’s the surprise? We always knew there was something inside the prover­bial black box that made us who we are. 
So far, the most striking fact from the entire venture is simply how complex we (and, unfortunately, our diseases) really are, and how incredibly difficult it is to make sense of our genome and its dynamic changes. However, if some of these things should eventually be figured out, that should not change the way we see ourselves. We still love, cry, help people for no reason, spread rumors, declare war and make peace. Confirmation should not be mistaken for revolution. And while that uncom­fortably large nose was probably determined from the start, it stands to reason that we are still unpredictable enough to make life interesting. 
Edward A. Larkin is a senior with a double major in Biological Sciences and Classical Civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We shall not fail or falter; we shall not weaken or tire ... Give us the tools and we will finish the job.” 
Sir Winston Churchill British politician 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“One word frees us of all the weight and pain of life:That word is love.” 
SophoclesGreek tragic dramatist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, September 29, 2010 page 7 
Why we wore red for ‘Progressive Day’ 
Yesterday College Democrats sponsored an event called “Progressive Day.” Inviting all of those on campus who con­sider themselves progressive to wear blue, the campus political group cites that the reason for Progressive Notre Dame College 
Day was to Republicans expose the fact that pro-Guest column gressives on campus do exist and are actually quite numerous. 
The Facebook event page questions: 
“Do you ever feel like you’re the only progressive student on campus? Have you ever been afraid to watch Jon Stewart or Stephen Colbert in a public place? Have you ever had an itch to speak out but felt that your message was unwelcome?” Then it goes on, “Well, fel­low progressives, fear no more.” 
Thus, there seems to be some percep­tion of an anti-progressive machine on Notre Dame’s campus, one that stifles the freedom of students to speak their “pro­gressive” minds. 
But what defines this idea of “progres­sivism?” The posters advertising Progressive Day call upon members of the Notre Dame community to wear blue in support of “social justice and environ­mental harmony, an equitable and sus­tainable society based on tolerance and a respect for human dignity that demands access to the American Dream for all.” 
With terms such as these, it is fitting for College Republicans to feel left out from sponsoring Progressive Day. Indeed, social justice, the environment, an equi­table and sustainable society, human dig­nity, and the American Dream aren’t what Republicans are looking to destroy. Quite to the contrary, the ideals embodied in yesterday’s event, vague as they may be, constitute nothing that the Republican Party opposes. That is, if “Progressivism” is what College Democrats are touting it to be, then Republicans find themselves in strong support of this political move­ment. 
That being said, we feel a little slighted that students and faculty were asked to wear blue on a day championing this brand of Progressivism. A move like this not only presents human rights and equality goals as single-party issues (which they’re not, at all), but it con­tributes to the demonization of Republicans both on and off campus. In wearing the color of the Democratic Party in support of the issues mentioned above, a false dichotomy is created, one that mischaracterizes Republicans, casting us as the opposition party to the American people. This is not the case, and it offends us to be portrayed as such. 
Purple would have been a better color to express the ideals of the day, with Republicans and Democrats apparently 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Equality in the workplace 
Dear Notre Dame, described. I was dumbfounded that adults 
When I entered college, I naively immaturely resort to name-calling, and believed that men and women were treat-that this childish teasing impacts the ed as equals in the work force. However, woman’s success. These articles clarify several USA Today articles have proved the extent to which sexism is present in my former beliefs wrong. Apparently the work force in a shocking way. women are now up to earning, on aver-I present this information to you in age, 83 percent of what men earn. hopes of bringing this injustice to light. I Although this number is increasing, the also hope to motivate you to initiate problem remains that women are deval-change wherever you go. We all hope to ued despite their equal contributions. In pursue careers ourselves, and we may addition, another article describes that an even make decisions about someone’s overweight or obese woman is worth even salary someday. Please serve as an advo­less. Men, on the other hand, earn the cate for equality. For anyone interested in same, regardless of weight. This point the feminist effort at Notre Dame, please demonstrates that a woman’s appearance contact Caroline Green who is currently is a factor for her salary. Is that even a president of the Feminist Voice of Notre valid argument, that a person’s weight Dame at feminist@nd.edu. Thanks for makes them worth less, even though they reading, do the same work? 
What I find most offensive is an article titled “Sexist Jabs Scar Female Hopefuls.” Deborah Olmstead In this article, the extremely negative senior effects of calling female politicians “mem-Walsh Hall bers of the oldest profession” are Sept. 27 unified on Progressive ideals. Even white, the color of peace, would have been nice. Or black, indicating our mutual solemnity at the fact that global inequality and recognition of human dignity remains unachieved. Instead, blue was worn, falsely painting the very relevant issues behind Progressive Day as solely Democratic, united against a dastardly red menace that comprises the non-left. 

This brings us back to the invented oppression of progressives on campus by a cruel right. “Fear no more,” should more have been, “What are you afraid of?” There’s no suffocating conservative presence on campus threatening students from watching Stewart and Colbert. In fact, ironically enough, the last College Republicans meeting included a smart and rather hilarious critique of the Obama administration’s empty promises-by none other than Jon Stewart. 
There’s no threat to those who want to speak their minds but aren’t conserva­tive. Coming from the very club that is in political opposition to College Democrats, we would never condone unfair quashing of liberal views. There should be no rea­son for anyone in the Notre Dame com­munity to fear speaking up or supporting a side of politics — and that’s not a unilat­eral issue. 
So, when progressivism is defined in terms of compassion and desire for the preservation of human dignity, College Republicans indeed find themselves amid the progressive bunch on campus. In realizing this, but also in realizing that issues like those “Progressive Day” is about fall under the domain of not one, but both major political parties on cam­pus, we’re showing our support by wear­ing red. It’s not done in mockery; it’s not done in protest of the causes. 
Having attended the Progressive Day rally on South Quad, goodwill from some was obvious. Professor Julia Douthwaite’s speech on bipartisanship and becoming informed spoke volumes, and she exem­plified her point by wearing both blue and red. Others were less encouraging, bringing partisanship into the debate, but the overall “pro-neither-Party” message was well-received. 
If the ideals being promoted by College Democrats comprise Progressivism, please let the College Republicans into the movement. If that seems at all unfit­ting, perhaps Progressivism should be explained further. 
This column was written by members of the Notre Dame College Republicans: Josh Varanelli: president; Guillermo Pi: vice-president; Amanda Randolph: treasurer; Michael DeJaegher: secretary. The club can be contacted at colrep@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Homefield advantage, R.I.P. 
I’m an ‘87 grad. Despite seeing a lot of place to play. frustrating games as a student, I have We had a wonderful weekend bringing NEVER been in a more desolate sold-out our sons to the game and showing them stadium than Saturday’s. Even with the an unbelievable place that will always game still in reach at 19-6, all 81,000 of mean so much more than football to us. us could hear Crist clap his hands before But the intimate effort of a student body every snap and the Stanford bench tipping willing their team to win was gone. The its defense with “Pass!” and “Run!” calls. lavish Bookstore, Eck Center, Gug and It couldn’t be clearer that Notre Dame no amenities come at a price. Notre Dame longer has any home field advantage. has lost its edge. Instead of Catholics vs. 
My brother (class of ‘81) and I stared in Convicts we are the Notre Dame shock as the student section stood in Experience. Instead of conjuring the silence, waiting for another cue from the Apocalypse, we now sustain and nurture band. What happened to raising your keys opponents we used to dominate. as a way to focus your energy on your Opponents do not fear the place, nor its team before a “key” 4th and 1? And to the noise or its power. They beat us in silence spontaneous, clever and LOUD goading of and take some of our legacy. Our long, opposing players and coaches to remind dark decade is not just about bad coach-them that they are there for more than a ing and unfulfilled talent. Notre Dame will scrimmage? Instead, we have beach balls. not shake down the thunder again until its Very cute and probably a lot of fun, but do student body reclaims the house that Rock you think Stanford thought anything but built. “Wow, that’s pretty?” Intimidating volume to disrupt audibles and snap counts is the rule in every major college football stadi-Steve VanDerhoef um. There simply has to be an idea or two alumnus besides “The [silent] Shirt” that will make Class of 1987 Notre Dame Stadium a more difficult Sept. 27 
Challenge to the Notre Dame student body 
Let me begin by saying that I have the greatest respect for the ND student body. They have excelled in so many ways just to be accepted to the University and they contin­ue to distinguish themselves while attending Notre Dame. However, I was both surprised and disappointed by some things I witnessed on campus during the Stanford game weekend. Let me list them. 
1. 
There were empty sections in the student area at the Friday evening pep rally. 

2. 
There were no more than 100 or so students around the stairs in the student section when the players entered for the warm up session. Coach Kelly had asked students to be there as a way of supporting and bonding with the team. 

3. 
After the players and band left the field, but while the alumni band was still on the field playing the Notre Dame Victory March, three quarters of the students were rushing to get out of the stadium. 


You often hear said that the Notre Dame student body is the most loyal and energized one of its kind, especially when it comes to supporting their football team and, per­haps, other sports teams. I know that used to be the case. I saw very little that was special last weekend, nothing that compared to what it used to be or what I believe it should be. 

In discussions with other alumni, I was told that maybe getting to the game an hour early to greet the players entering for the warm up period and the quick departure from the stadium while the alumni band was playing the Victory March was due to a desire to participate in pre game and post game tailgating. I don’t know if that is true for some or many, and it really doesn’t make any differ­ence. Meeting the players before warm ups requires giving up one hour six times a year to demonstrate support for the football team. Is that asking too much, too much of a sacrifice? 
To a certain degree, I believe that every student attend­ing Notre Dame has an obligation to uphold some of the legacies of the past students, and that includes the well-documented fanatical support for their football team. Notre Dame stands for excellence in every area. The stu­dent body, as a group, has some room for improvement when it comes to the issue mentioned above. It’s either that or simply admitting that things have changed and priorities are different today than in the past. 
There may be a leadership issue here. Student leaders, at every level? Student government, cheerleaders, dorm leaders, etc., should take a look at this and do something about it. Someone needs to step up. Maybe it’s a communi­cation or education problem. The legacy of the unique sup­port for its football team by the student body should not be allowed to diminish and fade away. Higher standards need to be set on some of those little things. People show their true worth when times are difficult, when the team is down. In years past thousands of students would meet the team when their bus returned late at night from an away game loss. That makes Notre Dame unique. 
Let me close in saying that I know there are hundreds, if not thousands, of students who have an undiminished pas­sion for supporting the football team, one that they place as a high priority. You guys need to get the others on board. 
Tim Kelley 
alumnus Class of 1964 Sept. 27 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Wednesday, September 29, 2010 

By MARIELLE HAMPE 
Scene Writer 
Raw emotion, realistic details and rapid plot shifts characterize Eddie Chuculate’s fictional book, “Cheyenne Madonna.” Chuculate will be reading from his book Thursday in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 7:00 p.m. – 
9:00 p.m.. The event is free and open to the public. 
Chuculate won the O. Henry Prize in 2007 for his short story “Galveston Bay, 1826,” the first of the seven short sto­ries in “Cheyenne Madonna.” Just pub­lished in July, “Cheyenne Madonna” is Chuculate’s first book. 
“Galveston Bay, 1826” describes Cheyenne Indian Old Bull travelling to the ocean for the first time with his friends. An unexpected hurricane leaves Old Bull the only survivor. The remaining six interconnected short sto­ries of “Cheyenne Madonna” detail Jordan Coolwater’s adventures 150 years later as he leaves Oklahoma and travels to the West to become a sculp­tor. 
Jordan Coolwater is introduced as a seventh grade boy spending the sum­mer with his grandparents on Creek Indian land. YoYo, a self-assured and sexually explicit ninth grade African American girl, moves into a nearby house. YoYo quickly escalates their friendship into a shocking evening alone at her house. The events are at first baffling, but Chuculate’s narrative enrage the reader all within a short span of text. “Cheyenne Madonna’s” plot is sometimes shocking, but the sur­prising and unsettling parts of its story only add to its appeal. 

Alcohol and art become driving forces of the text’s plot. Alcoholism permeates 
is daring. His plot twists and climatic scenes earn him appreciation as an articulate and mas­terful storyteller. 
Chuculate’s plot digs deeps into human emotions and situations. Chuculate does not spare any topic from discussion. Alcoholism, racism and sexual abuse are only a few of the difficult topics Chuculate seamless­ly weaves into his text. 
Each situation and plot detail is unex­pected. The book manages to enlight­en, question and 
On campus 

What: “Cheyenne Madonna” read­ing by author Eddie ChuculateWhere: Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore When: Thursday, Sept. 30, 7:00
p.m. to 8:00 p.m.How much: free Learn more: nai.nd.edu 


Jordan’s family as both his uncle and father are heavy binge drinkers. Jordan also cannot escape alcohol, and his addiction becomes more apparent as he seeks to further his artistic career. 
Jordan’s relation­ship with his father, Shorty, is expressed more clearly in the story “Dear Shorty.” Chuculate foreshad­ows later despair in its opening para­graph when he writes, “What a lonely feeling that is, at the edge of the earth, the edge of your hopes, to look 
out over a balcony as spooky nighttime fog creeps in, and not be able to see the water but only hear it, hear it boil to a hushed roar, then release.” 
Beautiful descriptive details such as this make the reader engage with Chuculate’s text. Not only are his details descriptive, but his characters are real­istic and honest. Each character suf­fers, makes mistakes and learns through pain. 
Jordan’s life takes a myriad of twists and turns which ultimately end with him in prison. After prison, Jordan begins his artistic career anew and rediscovers love. 
Chuculate successfully weaves a unique plot. The text’s realistic charac­ter descriptions, fast-paced plot and unexpected outcomes keep the text a mystery until the end. Although the plot’s outcomes are sometimes sad, Chuculate’s eloquent story relates a message of hope. The text is hopeful for a new beginning, for a new chance of self-discovery and for the possibility of achieving a person’s dreams and goals. “Cheyenne Madonna” is a shocking and evocative read not soon forgotten. 
Contact Marielle Hampe at mhampe@nd.edu 
GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, September 29, 2010 page 9 

By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
“Spelling has nothing to do with intel­
ligence,” comedian and actress Lily 
Tomlin said. She was making a jab at 
the recent South Bend public school 
billboard spelling faux pas (hint: the 
advertisement misspelled “public”). 
The audience roared with laughter, 
and it didn’t stop for the rest of her 
time onstage at Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin 
Auditorium Monday night. 
Earlier in the day, Tomlin, 71, spoke 
with Saint Mary’s theater students, 
talking about her career, answering 
their questions and even critiquing a 
few monologues performed by students 
in a Characterization class. Dressed 
down in a jean jacket, black pants and 
high top sneakers, with her hair up in 
clips, Tomlin looked more like a college 
student than a winner of two Tonys, 
two Peabodys, a Grammy and six 
Emmys. 
While speaking to the students, 
Tomlin seamlessly slipped into several 
of her famous characters, such as 
prune-faced, power-hungry phone 
company worker Ernestine, popular in 
the 1960s on the television series 
“Laugh In.” 
Also making an appearance was the 
character of six-year-old Edith Ann. 
Tomlin said she once found a box full of 
tapes of her practicing and perfecting 
that voice. 
“Half of doing something is working 
the process,” she said. 

Asked by students how she came up with Ernestine, or any of her many characters, Tomlin said, “Sometimes it’s just serendipitous.” 
She went on to explain how Ernestine started out as a tough Bronx operator, who would do things like tape incrimi­nating telephone conversations, or threaten to send over Vito the repair guy, and say things like, “Lock up the liquor, he’s a mean drunk.” 
Tomlin worked further on the charac­ter, and Ernestine is still being perfect­ed all these years later. Ernestine even had a web cast during the Bush admin­istration, and Tomlin’s character is now working diligently denying people health care, a manifestation which appeared in Monday night’s show. 
“Astounding and revelatory is the kind of thing I love to do,” Tomlin told the acting class. 
She gave the students a little some­thing to drop their jaws at by talking about working on accents with Meryl Streep on the movie, “A Prairie Home Companion,” and casually throwing out, “Of course, Meryl is brilliant at accents.” 
Physicality is something Tomlin emphasized to the students, and embodied later Monday night in her show. She advised students who per­formed for her not to be afraid to be more physical, or even to use move­ment as a lead in or inspiration for a character. 
Tomlin, at 71, as lithe and energetic as ever, seamlessly jumped from one side of the stage to another, and rolled around on O’Laughlin’s stage floor as Edith Ann. 
Hugely popular with the older “Laugh In” generation, she gained a few younger fans with her apologetically salacious jokes. 
“When you’re at a party and you’ve had too much to drink, the way you can tell is your friends stop talking to you, and start talking about you,” Tomlin joked during her performance. “[They are] saying things like, ‘Did she have a purse?’” 
She imparted valuable wisdom to the audience with quips such as, “One of the most valuable survival tools we have is the ability to delude ourselves,” or as Edith Ann, she said, “I’m not bossy, my ideas are just better.” 
Finally, as her most famous charac­ter, Ernestine, she said, “Remember, an apple a day keeps the doctor away — but so does being uninsured.” 
An Evening with Lily Tomlin 
Monday, September 27 
O’LaughlinAuditorium 
Saint Mary’s College 

Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 



of comic books. It operates and makes acquisitions using funds from tours, donations and fundrais­ers including comic conventions and events like the upcoming Super-Villain Haunted House for Halloween. 
The Hall has been featured on FX’s “Collectibles,” in Wizard Magazine and in the Comic Buyer’s Guide. It features an astonishing collection of superhero comics and television and film memorabilia that can interest the most casual fan or the most dedicated comic buyer. Housed in a building modeled after the Hall of Justice from the “Superfriends” TV series, the Hall is curated by Allen Stewart, an authority on comic history. 
“The collection covers the entire 70-year history of comics,” Stewart said. “We’ve got everything.” 
That isn’t an exaggeration. The collection includes a copy of every major super hero title published through time, and Stewart has organized distinct Golden and Silver Age comic sec­tions. The Golden Age section is a special point of pride for Stewart. 
“I’m a huge history buff, and I love WWII, and one of the most interesting eras for comics was dur­ing the War,” he said. 
The comics on display show a variety superheroes involved in the war effort, from Batman and Robin participating in a War Bond march to Uncle Sam fighting like a cos­tumed crusader. The most impor­tant comic in this section is the first of issue of Captain America: On the cover, the hero punches out Adolf Hitler. The Hall of Heroes is the only place outside of the Smithsonian to see this comic on display. 
The Silver Age section is a must for fans of Marvel Comics. It includes the first comic appear­ances by all the major Marvel heroes, including the Fantastic 

For more casual super­heroes fans, there is a replica of the Batcave from the 1960s “Batman” television series and an entire sec­tion devoted to superhero films. The latter houses a collection of rare posters, autographs and movie props that are sure to impress. Among the cooler items are a Green Goblin Bomb from the “Spider-man” movies and a working replica of the mechanical heart worn by Robert Downey Jr. in the “Iron Man” series. 
The upstairs portion of the muse­um houses the comic collection itself, which runs all along the walls. Above the comics are the var­ious toys spanning many eras, countries and types, including action figures, statues and cos­tumes. The floor is divided into DC and Marvel sections and features an impressive amount of original comic art as well as animation cells. It’s a must see for anyone who is fan of comics or even for folks who might book story itself,” raves Stewart, who is quick to point out that any­one, not just kids, can enjoy this event. 
“We had a lot of fun last year and hope it’s just as successful this year.” 
Around the Bend 
What: Hall of Heroes Where: 58005 County Road 105,Elkhart When: Tours by appointment. TheHalloween Haunted House of Villians is open 7-9:30 p.m. onOct. 14-16, 22-23 and 29-30 How much: $5 for adults, $3 for children Learn more: (574) 237-0755 andthe Hall of Heroes Facebook page 
Contact Ross Finney at tfnney@nd.edu 



GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 29, 2010 
MLB 

Wainwright to be kept out for rest of season 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Adam Wainwright won his 19th and 20th games while nursing a right forearm strain hurt in a freak accident at home. Now, the team doctor recommends he shut it down for the year. 
The 20-game winner under­went an MRI exam on Monday that revealed a strained mus­cle in his forearm and inflam­mation near the elbow, and team physician Dr. George Paletta recommended that Wainwright not pitch again this season. 
Manager Tony La Russa said he’d go with Wainwright if the Cardinals bucked astronomical odds and made it to the last day still in postseason con­tention. The Reds’ magic num­ber for clinching the NL Central was one entering Tuesday night. 
La Russa called the decision precautionary. 
“I think it’s smart, he’s pitched enough, he’s had a great year. If we get to Sunday and we’ve won five in a row and they’ve lost five in a row, then he’ll pitch Sunday. How about that?” the manager said. 
The Cardinals believe Wainwright will be fine with rest. The pitcher said the elbow ligament is not an issue. 
“My ligament looks exactly the same as it did before, everything is perfectly intact,” Wainwright said. “It’s really a non-issue to be honest. If we’re going to the playoffs, I’m pitching.” 
Wainwright is 20-11 with a 
2.42 ERA, both second-best in the National League. He’s also second in innings (230 1/3) and third in strikeouts (213) and most of the season has been among the top con­tenders for the Cy Young Award. 
Jake Westbrook will take Wainwright’s scheduled start on Thursday. 
Wainwright said he slept on the arm earlier this month, woke up and found the arm numb, and flung it aside instead of waiting for feeling to return. 
“I couldn’t make this up,” Wainwright said. “I know that happens to almost everybody in your life. 
“Usually what you do is grab with the other arm and move it to other side and you wait for it to tingle or whatever. It was like 3 in the morning and out of pure laziness what I did was just fling it backwards, and I wrenched my elbow a little bit.” 
The 29-year-old Wainwright won his 19th and 20th games since the injury while doing rehab between starts. 
He then was taken out after six innings and 84 pitches the night he won his 20th game. He said Paletta told him there was a risk of further injury if he kept pitching. 
The Cardinals have a two-year, $21 million option on Wainwright’s contract for 2012 and 2013 and one of the provi­sions is he not end this season or next season on the disabled list. Wainwright wasn’t wor­ried about that. 
“I have a million reasons why I should or could go out there and pitch, but none of them are worth the risk,” Wainwright said. “I’ve got a lot of reasons why if they don’t pick up my option I’ll be all right. 
“Know what I mean?” 
The team didn’t disclose Wainwright had undergone an MRI until Tuesday. Wainwright said he was told not to talk about it, and thought the team would also wait until test results could be analyzed, but originally said he hadn’t had the test. 
“I’m an investment and I do what they tell me,” Wainwright said. “We still had some deci­sions to make and whether I was going to pitch or not was-n’t 100 percent. 

“I was basically given the idea that you could go out and pitch and there’s no problem, but you could also complicate it.” 


NBA 

Anthony attempts to ignore rumors, focus on basketball 
stuff.” Still, Anthony’s days in gave Anthony an “A’’ for his attention of his players. But he 
Associated Press 

For now, Anthony remains a Denver could very well be effort after practice, saying he only used it in a joking man-
DENVER — Carmelo member of the Nuggets after a numbered. thought his star was “very ner. Anthony is focused on hoops, person with knowledge of the Anthony’s powder blue jer-professional, very mature.” “It’s fun to be back. It’s fun not the hoopla surrounding his discussions said a four-way sey, soaked in sweat after a Karl remains hopeful that to get the butterflies,” Karl future in Denver. deal that would have sent more than two-hour practice, Anthony will stick around. said. “It’s fun to interact with 
Anthony joined his Nuggets Anthony to New Jersey was was proof of an honest day’s Anthony has yet to sign off your basketball family.” teammates on the first day of “dead.” The person spoke to work Tuesday. on a three-year, $65 million Karl couldn’t chat for long — training camp Tuesday, calling The Associated Press on con-The All-Star forward extension that’s been on the four minutes at a time tops. the court his “safe haven,” a dition of anonymity because became almost agitated when table since June, leading the With such a veteran team, place where he doesn’t have he wasn’t authorized to speak asked if he might give any-Nuggets to explore trade though, he really didn’t need to “deal with all the other publicly about the trade. thing less than 100 percent options. The potential trade to do much instructing. 
considering his uncertainty involving Denver, New Jersey, “All he has to do is say it with the team. Charlotte and Utah hit a road once,” Anthony said, grinning. 
“I love the game too much to block over the weekend and “He sounds good, he looks disrespect the game like that,” then withered when a deal good.” said Anthony, who averaged wasn’t reached by an imposed Just how much longer Karl 
28.2 points last season in deadline of Tuesday. might be coaching Anthony leading the Nuggets to their “The perfect storm in my remains unclear. The two are second straight Northwest mind is to keep Melo, convince hoping to get together for a Division title. “Anytime I step him that this is the best place chat sometime this week. on the court, I’m going to give for him, that this is where he Anthony has one caveat: The it my all, regardless of what’s has to win a championship,” conversation must remain on going on, what’s the situation. Karl said. hoops — no sales pitches. 
“This is basketball. I focus Karl made his return to “I want to focus on basket-on basketball — it’s something practice Tuesday after missing ball right now,” Anthony said. I know how to do and I love to the end of last season while “If he wants to sit and talk to do. As far as my effort on the undergoing treatment for me about what to do tomor­court, nobody can question throat and neck cancer. His row at practice or the next that.” voice still raspy, Karl carried day, then we can sit down and 
Nuggets coach George Karl around a whistle to get the talk about that.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
PERSONAL 

NOW RENTING 2011-12 4BD/2BA UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't A smorgasbord of hilarious quotes: HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR-go it alone. Notre Dame has manyWANTED FOR RENT HOODS 574-876-6333 resources in place to assist you. If “Let us gingerly touch our tips.” 
——————————————— you or someone you love needs What’s your name? Spacious Upper-Level Apartment confidential support or assistance, “Alabama. eh; el; eh; ess; kay; eh. “Uh, Joe... John... uh, Joe-John.” Near Airport, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Alaska. eh; el;eh;es; kay; eh.” “Your name’s Joe-John?” on Busline or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more “John-ston, Johnston. Joe.” 
1 Bdr. $550, All Util Included Call information, visit ND's website at: “You scorpion woman!” “You wanna tell me what happened Earn $1000-$3200 a month to drive Mike 574-250-0191 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. here?” our brand new cars with ads placed ——————————————— If you or someone you care about ——————————————— “Not at the table Carlos.” “Uh, there was a fire, I dunno, I on them. www.AdCarDriver.com AVAILABLE NOW has been sexually assaulted, we For my buddy Toole, king of all came by and it's... checkin out the 
can help. things comedy. “The closet door is made of all fire.” 4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT. kinds of wood.” For more information, visit Notre He once spent an entire stroll to 
1.5 miles from ND 574-876-6333 Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. Legends solely quoting Spongebob ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, September 29, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
MLB 

Yankees, Reds, Rays clinch playoff berths 
likely will be his final start of Zobrist also drove in runs off 
Associated Press 
the regular season. Orioles starter Brad 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Rays remained one-half Bergensen (8-11). 
The Tampa Bay Rays clinched game in front of the New York The Rays made an improba­
their second playoff berth in Yankees atop the AL East. The ble run to the World Series 
three years Tuesday night, Yankees beat Baltimore 5-0 on two years ago with Price com-
beating the Baltimore Orioles Tuesday to also clinch a play-ing out of the bullpen to close 
5-0 behind another strong off berth. out their pennant-clinching 
pitching performance by 19-Carl Crawford and Carlos win over Boston. 
game winner David Price. Pena hit solo homers to sup-Price took the mound one Price (19-6) scattered six port the 25-year-old left-han-night after he and All-Star 
hits over eight innings and der before a crowd of 17,891 third baseman Evan Longoria 
allowed only one runner past that joined in the celebration made comments critical of the 
second base. He struck out at Tropicana Field. announced crowd — 12,446 — 
eight and walked none in what Dan Johnson and Ben for a potential clincher on Monday. Longoria called the turnout “disheartening,” while Price weighed in on Twitter, calling it “embarrassing.” Team president Matt Silverman announced before the game that the Rays will make available 20,000 free tickets for Wednesday night’s regular-season home finale against the Orioles, a decision the executive said probably wouldn’t have been made if the players had not spoken out about low attendance. Any fans who purchased tickets in sections where free 
ones are located may exchange them for a lower box seat. 
“This is about getting more 

energy into Tropicana Field, Derek Jeter scored three can expect. 
getting this place packed, and runs and drove in another for Bruce latched onto the first 
for the players to thrive off of the Yankees, who have pitch from Byrdak (2-2) and 
that emotion,” Silverman said. reached the postseason every lined it over the wall in center, 
“We saw it in the past. We’ve year but one since 1996. New sending teammates sprinting 
seen it this year, and we will York missed the playoffs in to home plate to pummel him 
see it in the postseason.” 2008, finishing behind Tampa after he touched home with 
Bay and Boston. the title-winning run while Yankees 6, Blue Jays 1 The Tampa Bay Rays, who fireworks went off overhead. 
The New York Yankees hold a half-game lead over the With the title, Dusty Baker clinched their 15th postseason Yankees in the AL East, joined Bill McKechnie as the berth in the last 16 years and clinched a playoff berth only managers to lead three CC Sabathia got his 21st win Tuesday, beating Baltimore 5-different NL teams to the play-
of the season, beating the 0. offs. Baker also has made it Toronto Blue Jays 6-1 on Sabathia (21-7) allowed one with the Giants and Cubs. Tuesday night. run and three hits in 8 1-3 The Reds sold 30,151 tickets 
innings to match Andy for the clinching game— Pettitte’s 21 wins in 1996 and above-average for a cool 2003 for the most victories by September weeknight—and a Yankee since Ron Guidry took the field almost tasting it. went 22-6 in 1985. Second baseman Brandon 
The left-hander, who walked Phillips said he doesn’t drink two and struck out eight, is 9-and has never taken so much 3 in 12 career starts against as a sip of champagne. Toronto, including 5-1 with a “Everybody is looking for­
2.39 ERA in six starts at ward to seeing me do it,” Rogers Centre. Phillips said. “I don’t know Mariano Rivera got the final how it’s going to taste. I don’t two outs for the Yankees. know what’s going to happen.” Sabathia came in having lost Most Reds were novices at two of his past four starts, the sip-and-spray tradition. allowing 16 runs, but was on Four female fans in the upper form against the Blue Jays. He deck wore shirts that, side-by­retired eight of the first nine side, urged the home team to 
batters, walking Jose Bautista “Show Us The Bubbly.” 
in the first. Travis Snider hit a They showed some defense 
leadoff homer to right in the when Drew Stubbs stretched 
third, his 12th. above the wall in center to 
The homer was Toronto’s steal a two-run homer away 
major league-leading 244th of from Carlos Lee in the third 
the season, matching the team inning, drawing a standing 
record set in 2000. Seattle ovation. 
holds the all-time record, hit-The crowd was on its feet 
ting 264 in 1997. again in the sixth, when the 
Sabathia responded to Reds loaded the bases with Snider’s blast by setting down none out. Phillips tied it at 2 11 straight batters and 16 of with an infield single to the the next 17. hole at shortstop, but Bruce 
grounded into an inning-end-Cincinnati 3, Houston 2 ing double play. 
The Reds are headed to the Bruce made up for it on his 
playoffs for the first time in 15 next swing. 
years, completing the long-The Reds celebrated their 
awaited trip with Jay Bruce’s title a day after Philadelphia 
one dramatic swing. clinched its fourth straight NL 
Bruce homered on the first East title—no surprise there. 
pitch from Tim Byrdak in the The Reds’ recent history made 
bottom of the ninth Tuesday them a most unexpected play-
night for a 3-2 victory over the off team. 
Houston Astros that secured The Reds hadn’t reached the 
the NL Central title. postseason since 1995, when 
Left -hander Aroldis Davey Johnson took them to Chapman (2-2) pitched a per-the NL championships series, fect ninth, topping out at 101 then lost his job because mph while showing playoff owner Marge Schott didn’t like opponents the nasty stuff they him. 




page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, September 29, 2010 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles open conference season against Calvin 
By JOSEPH WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Belles open up MIAA conference play Wednesday afternoon on the road against No. 15 Calvin College. 
Saint Mary’s (2-8) secured its second win on Sunday with a 3-0 victory over Franklin. It was the Belles’ second straight home shutout but will face a challenge in taking on Calvin. The Knights come into the game with a 7-1-1 record and are the defending MIAA cham­pions. Belles coach Michael Joyce said he knows his team will face a strenuous test on Wednesday. 
“Calvin is a top-25 team, so that is a challenging confer­ence opener,” Joyce said. “We’re going to have to work hard no matter who we play in our conference, so we’ve got to go out each game and look for points with either a win or a tie.” 
Led by freshman goalkeeper Ashton Hearn, the Knights have only given up one goal this season. Saint Mary’s has given up 27. Calvin’s starting freshman Brittany Hieftje leads the Knights in goals and points. 
Joyce said he understands the challenge that is ahead of the team against Calvin and the entire MIAA, but he said believes that his team has the potential to sneak up on a few opponents within the league. 
“We’ll have to be at our best against Calvin and a few bounces our way won’t hurt either,” Joyce said. “I think we’re good enough to surprise one or two teams in our con­ference.” 
The Belles will kick off their conference season against the Knights today at 4 p.m. at Calvin’s Zuidema Field. 
Contact Joseph Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 



CYCLING 

Arenas and Crittenton suspended for season 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — A staff mem­ber of Lance Armstrong’s Team RadioShack, who also has a con­nection to Floyd Landis, is expected to testify Wednesday before a grand jury investigating allegations of doping in profes­sional cycling, a person with knowledge of the probe said. 
Allen Lim, an exercise physiol­ogist whom Landis said helped him cheat with doping during his career, was called to appear before the panel in Los Angeles, according to the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity Tuesday because the investiga­tion was ongoing. 
Lim would be the latest witness in a probe that has featured some of cycling’s biggest names, including Armstrong, Landis and Tour de France winner Greg LeMond. 
Lim, who joined Team RadioShack for the 2010 season, has denied the allegations by Landis, who also accused seven-time Tour winner Armstrong of doping. 
Armstrong became a more important figure in the probe after Landis dropped long-stand­ing denials and admitted he used performance-enhancing drugs. In doing so, he accused Armstrong and others of systematic drug use. Landis won the Tour in 2006 but was stripped of his title for doping. 
Landis also made his accusa­tions in an e-mail, and Lim was mentioned in it. 
Armstrong has vehemently denied the accusations, and his attorney has described Landis as a “serial liar.” 
Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Los Angeles, declined comment when asked about whether Lim was appearing before the grand jury. 
Last week, Stephanie McIlvain, a longtime Armstrong friend, spent a day testifying before the grand jury. Her attorney later said McIlvain told the panel she had never heard Armstrong admit that he used banned sub­stances. 


Wednesday, September 29, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
College 
continued from page 16 
College, but I chose ND because it provided the best edu­cational opportunities. I knew if I came here I would be part of a ‘family’ after I graduated.” 
Now that her dream has come true, she’s ready to run with it. Manningham’s first test will come this weekend at Notre Dame’s Eck Classic, the first meet of the fall season. 
“This tournament will be dif­ferent because in high school there was a difference in the level of play between area schools. Here everyone will be good,” she said. 
But Manningham does not plan to let the new level of com­petition bring her down. 
“I plan to bride the gap by stepping up to the plate and not having the fear of losing, only the desire to win,” she said. 
Looking to coaches and fellow teammates is made easy with such a small, close-knit team who provide good resources in the early stages of the season. 
“We all get along so well and it made the transition into college very easy. I wouldn’t ask for it to be any other way,” Manningham said. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 


Ahead 
continued from page 16 
out of the gates. Maybe it’s not showing right now, new offense, new defense, new special teams. At times we’ve been sporadic. 
“But I’m still not in favor of throwing [Football Championship Series] teams in there. I still feel like we should be playing the kind of schedule we’re playing, and I think it’s going to pay off for us.” 
Don’t knock on Wood 
While sophomore running back Cierre Wood hasn’t been able to duplicate the explosiveness he displayed in the opener against Purdue, Kelly said he and his staff still love his potential. 
“We’re still really high on Cierre Wood,” Kelly said after releasing a depth chart that list­ed senior Robert Hughes, not Wood, as the No. 2 running back. “This is not ‘let’s push Cierre to the side.’ He’s a young kid now. … This guy’s got four games and everybody wants to throw the poor kid under the bus. I think he’s going to be a really, really good player. He just needs time.” 
Kelly did address the elevation of Hughes, who saw his first game action against Stanford and made two catches for 43 yards. 
“On of the things that Robert can do and utilize against [Boston College Saturday] is he’s a big, strong, physical kid and he may be able to help us a little bit in pass protection,” Kelly said. 
One other depth chart note: freshman wide receiver Bennett Jackson, who has made five spe­cial teams tackles through four games, is now listed as an “or” at the kick return slot, which has been a relative disappointment thus far. 
“Bennett Jackson is somebody that’s doing a great job in all the other areas of special teams,” Kelly said. “So we want to obvi­ously try to get the ball in his hands as well.” 

Night test 
Saturday’s game against Boston College will be Notre Dame’s second night game on the road this season, as the Irish kicked off their loss to Michigan State at 8 p.m. two weeks ago. Having already experienced a night game on the road in a tough environment should help the Irish against the Eagles, Kelly said. 
“Our last time on the road, I thought our kids handled the emotions of the game, the atmos­phere, very well,” Kelly said. “We expect to do the same thing. We want to make a couple more plays than we did against Michigan State, in terms of the last time being on the road.” 
Just as the Irish haven’t changed their general approach to a road night game, Kelly said his team has maintained the same sort of attitude in its prepa­ration after three straight losses. 
“There is no difference in where we are from this week to last week, other than we’re all wanting to win a football game. Everybody has got the same feel­ing,” he said. “Look, I coach and I teach. That’s what I do. And I’m going to coach and I’m going to teach motivated student-athletes. If you’re not motivated to be coached or taught, how am I going to teach you? 
“So our guys understand what that means, and they’ll come to practice ready to win and ready to be coached and taught.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Guys 
continued from page 16 
the Notre Dame squad at the Fighting Irish Golf Classic was senior Connor Alan-Lee. Left out of the starting lineup at Notre Dame’s first tourna­ment, Alan-Lee shot a 15­over-par 225 for three rounds. 
“I couldn’t have been more pleased,” Kubinski said of the senior’s performance. “I was very proud. At no point did he quit battling.” 
Next up for Notre Dame is the Firestone Invitational in Akron, Ohio at the Firestone Country Club on Oct. 11-12. 
As usual, the Irish will enter expecting to compete for a win, and coach Kubinski believes Tuesday’s finish will only add to the team’s desire to win. 
“This finish is extra motiva­tion. They’d like to go tee it up at Firestone tomorrow,” he said. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, September 29, 2010 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
and nationally.” 
The clash between the Irish (3-2-2) and the Wildcats (3-4-0) will be played under the bright lights of Toyota Park, home to the Chicago Fire of Major League Soccer. Clark said that the neutral site game between Midwest powers will act as a showcase to alumni and fans in the Chicago area. 
“We thought a nice answer for this game would be to play on a neutral ground,” Clark said. “It’ll give our alumni and our fans in the Chicago area a chance to come out and see the team. We hope for a nice turnout. There’ll definitely also be a lot of Northwestern fans at the game.” 
The Irish are coming off of a 1-0 weekend victory against No. 18 St. John’s at Alumni Stadium in which the Irish found the offensive rhythm they had been seeking in recent con­tests. 
“We had nine shots on target and we outshot them 18 to seven I think,” Clark said. “There were a lot of positives from that game. The only nega­tive is that we didn’t score more goals, but you’ve got to credit the St. John’s goalkeeper who made three great saves.” 


Clark emphasized that in order to preserve their form on the offensive end of the field, the Irish need to believe in their preparation rather than focus­ing on the goal drought against Michigan and Michigan State Sept. 17 and 19. 
“I don’t think we’ve ever real­ly played poorly in a game, with the exception of Michigan State where we came out flat,” Clark said. “We’ve got to continue to play well. We’re not really doing anything different offen­sively, we just have to believe in the way we do things.” 
The Irish will look to build off the St. John’s win as action gets underway against the Wildcats in Chicago on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
Net 
continued from page 16 
side of the net to be success­ful,” Kuschel said. 
Kuschel said she hopes for her team to play a well-round­ed match, especially on defense and serving, two areas in which the Belles have fallen short often this season. Saint Mary’s had a critical seven service errors and five blocking errors in their loss to Adrian and three to Alma’s zero in Friday night’s loss. The Belles were also outmatched in the service ace category by both opponents this weekend. 
“We will need to serve tough so they will have a harder time running a fast offense. We will also need to be suc­cessful putting runs together on defense,” Kuschel said. “We have struggled with that the last three matches.” 
The Belles will also strive to edge Trine on Wednesday in the non-statistical and more intangible aspects of the match. 
“We need to find our offen­sive rhythm and we need to start to make more good deci­sions with the ball,” Kuschel said. “We know that we did not communicate well this past week and we know that we did not play to our full potential. If we find our focus and have fun playing together there is no doubt that the rest of our season can be a suc­cessful one.” 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Angola, Ind., to take on Trine tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 



Wednesday, September 29, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDV LLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, September 29, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 

The road ahead 
Kelly confdent facing 

top teams will pay off  
By MATT GAMBER  
Sports Writer  
With the announcement earli­ 
er in the week that the Irish will  
play Wake Forest next season to  
complete the 2011 slate of oppo­ 
nents, talks of Notre Dame’s  
scheduling practices have, as  
they do every year, begun. And,  
with the team’s 1-3 start against  
three tough Big 10 teams and a  
strong Pac 10 contender, some  
want to question whether this  
type of schedule gives the Irish  
the best chance to win.  
Brian Kelly isn’t one of those  
people.  
“It will be a strength having a  
schedule like this moving for­ 
ward,” the Irish coach said at his  
Tuesday press conference. “I  
think with our spring and sum­ 
mer preparation, coming into  
the year [in the future] we’re  
going to be further ahead when  
we play tough competition right see AHEAD/page 13  SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Irish coach Brian Kelly calls for a timeout during Notre Dame’s 37-14 loss to Stanford on Saturday. Although the Irish have dropped three straight games, Kelly continues to have faith in his squad.  

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles look to reverse losing skid 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles hope to turn the tide and claim victory against MIAA foe Trine Tuesday after a week-long losing streak. 
Saint Mary’s (3-11) has lost five straight matches with its last win Sept. 18 at the Manchester Invitational tour­nament, and recently suffered a 3-0 loss to Alma on Friday and a 3-1 loss to Adrian on Saturday. 
The Thunder (6-11) have extra motivation to come out victorious as they lost their last conference match to Adrian on Sept. 21. Nevertheless, Belles coach Toni Kuschel remains focused on what her squad needs to do to win. 
“We are focused on what we need to do as a team on our 
see NET/page 14 


MEN’S GOLF 

Home invitational results in another second-place finish 
year’s first place but finished with the Hawkeyes after the and they deserved to win.” expect his scores to count just
By CORY BERNARD 

runner-up to No. 15 Iowa. first two rounds, but Iowa was Despite the finish, Irish fans about every time.” 
Sports Writer 

Irish coach Jim Kubinski too much for the Irish down can draw encouragement The Irish count on the con-acknowledged the frustration, the stretch, firing a 286 final from the play of junior golfer tributions of Usher throughout 
Two tournaments into the but said he was still round to finish with a 13-over Tom Usher, who finished in a the season, along with fellow season and the Irish are still impressed with his team’s 853 for the tournament. tie for first in last year’s Big juniors Max Scodro and Chris searching for their first win effort. Notre Dame shot a 292 third East Finals but struggled at Walker and freshman Niall after another second place “That’s two seconds in a row round to finish with 19-over-the College of Charleston invi-Platt. finish Tuesday. After a close where we either had the lead par. tational. On the Warren “We need those three jun­runner-up finish at the College or a share of the lead,” “I would say that we played Course, he fired a two-over-iors,” Kubinski said. “Along of Charleston Invitational, Kubinski said. “The guys are OK, but they played really par 212, good enough to tie with Niall, those four guys are Notre Dame entered the doing well to put themselves well,” Kubinski said of the for seventh place in the indi-our cornerstone.” Fighting Irish Golf Classic at in good positions to win, so Hawkeyes. “They won their vidual standings. The fifth scoring member of the Warren Golf Course this I’m happy about that.” first tournament by a wide “I was pleased to see Tom week looking to defend last Notre Dame remained tied margin. They outplayed us back,” Kubinski said. “We see GUYS/page 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish to face Northwestern 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Bridgeview, Ill., will be the neutral site of a grudge match Wednesday night as the Irish look to exact their revenge on Northwestern. The Wildcats have knocked the Irish out of the NCAA Championships in two consecutive seasons, although Notre Dame leads the series 12-3-1. 
“Northwestern have had our number,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “They’ve knocked us out in the second round of the NCAA’s two years in a row. That’s really all you need to say. They’re well-coached and they play good soccer. Clearly, they’re a team that has a lot of credibility both in the Midwest 
see SOCCER/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Area freshman finds home at Notre Dame 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This season the Irish bring a large group of fresh faces to their lineup, as freshmen make up half of the eight-woman team. Among them is freshman and Mishawaka native JoHanna Manningham, who began her career at age 10 and has not put down the racket since. 
“I grew to love the sport because it was a fun pastime yet it also provided a competitive outlet as well,” Manningham said. 
Throughout her high school career at Penn, she served as a role model both on and off the court, taking AP courses, holding a GPA over 4.0 and holding the position of No. 1 singles player at her high school since her fresh­man year. She remembers the highlight of her career there as her state run sophomore year when she made it to quarterfi­nals. 
“That was probably my most memorable moment,” she said. 
She hoped to attend Notre Dame for years, but was unsure if her game was up to par with the University’s competitive team. 
“Playing in college was always on the table; I never thought about not playing,” Manningham said. “I was looking at Navy, Toledo, IPFW and Wheaton 
see COLLEGE/page 13 






