the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND junior dies in video tower accident 
By SARAH MERVOSH and 
LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editors 
Junior Declan Sullivan died Wednesday when a film tower fell over during football practice. He was 20. 
Those who knew him well remembered Sullivan, a resident of Fisher Hall, as fun-loving and outgoing. 
His rector, Fr. Robert Moss, said he remembers Sullivan “mostly just for his enthusiasm for every­thing he was involved in.” 
Originally from Long Grove, Ill., Sullivan was double majoring in marketing and Film, Television & Theatre. 
Sullivan was a con­tributor to The Observer’s Scene sec­tion. 
He was filming practice from a hydraulic scissorlift at the LaBar Practice Complex on the southeast side of campus when the tower fell around 4:50 p.m., according to a University press release. He worked as a videographer for the Department of Athletics. 

Sullivan was transported to Memorial Hospital in South Bend, where he later died. 
Junior Marc Anthony Rosa, who was a friend of Sullivan, said describing Sullivan was an “impossible task.” 
“He’s an unbelievably unique soul that, when you meet him, he’s completely addicting to be around. He’s nonstop energy. He’s like no one else you’ve ever met,” 


Walorski looks to partner with ND 


By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the first in a two -part series featuring two candidates vying to represent Indiana ’s 2nd Congressional District. 
Across the country, Republicans are challeng­ing Democratic incumbents to gain control of the U.S. House of Representatives. The race for Indiana’s 2nd Congressional District is no different. 

Republican candidate Jackie Walorski is running against Democratic incum­bent Joe Donnelly, who has held his position for the last four years. It has been highlighted in the media as one of the nation ’s most contested races. 
Walorski told The Observer she would look to the University as a poten­tial partner to her if she were elected. 
She specifically com ­mended the University ’s focus on research and said it would be an asset to the 
see WALORSKI/page 4 
he said. “Although he may not be here, his soul is impossible to leave this campus and the people who’ve known him.” 
Moss said he arrived at the hos­pital after Sullivan died, and he anointed and blessed the body. 
“I was glad to be able to anoint the body,” he said. 
When Moss left the hospital, he said a University representative stayed with the body until family members arrived. Sullivan’s sister is a freshman Lewis Hall resident. 
Moss said he met with hall staff and gathered Fisher residents in the hall’s chapel at 8 p.m. to make the announcement. 
“Every chair was full,” he said. “He’ll be greatly missed.” 
Sullivan’s resident assistant Teddy Schaefer, a senior, said Sullivan was a “fun-loving guy, just a happy person. I’m in shock right now.” 
Moss presided over a standing-room-only Mass for Sullivan Wednesday night at 10:30 p.m. About 200 people attended the service in Fisher’s St. Paul Chapel. 
The Mass opened with the song 
see SULLIVAN/page 3 



‘The Hub’ sparks academic dialogue 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students recently launched the Hub, a new online academic net ­working site created to facili­tate intellectual discussion across various disciplines. 
The Hub is completely user-generated, depending on con­tributions from Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. The site consists of three main areas: “Commons,” which is a place for users to share personal experiences and get involved, “Think Tank,” which acts a platform for discussion on local, national and global issues and “Showcase,” which allows users to post some of their best research or artwork. 
Notre Dame is one of the first universities in the coun­try to support such a site, Co-Editor-in-Chiefs Kirsten Adam and Paul Baranay, both jun­iors, said. 
Adam and Baranay said with the Hub, they hope to redirect some of the energy that students exhibit on the Internet to a more profession­al, intellectual arena. 
“Students are already used to talking about their lives online with social networking. Moving that into a Notre Dame-focused place like the Hub is a … natural direction,” Baranay said. 
Adam said that unlike Facebook and Twitter pro­files, which are generally hid­den from employers, profiles on the Hub are something students should put forward. 
“It’s a very professional environment. It’s something you tell [future employers] about, not that you try to hide,” Adam said. “You can update your profile to be a 
see HUB/page 6 


‘Pizza, Pop and Politics’ discussion centers on health care 
fourth installment of the By EMILY SCHRANK “Pizza, Pop and Politics” 
News Writer 
series. “There have been a lot of cries for repeal, but the 

Heading into the 2010 Bishops’ believe we need to 
midterm elections, health support this bill now more 
care is a front and center than ever, ” she said. 
issue, said Kathy Saile, direc­“However, there are some 
tor of Domestic Policy for the things that need to be fixed 
United States Conference of so that it becomes a more 
Catholic Bishops (USCCB). moral bill.” 
Saile said Wednesday that USCCB has focused on three 
the USCCB believes the health care bill should be passed. She spoke during the see PIZZA/page 7 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Moreau fellows adjust to ND page 3  ArtGenda November page 10  Men’s soccer beats Pittsburgh page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, October 28, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ARE YOU DRESSING UP AS FOR  ALLOWEEN?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Mike Gotimer John Cameron Michael Todisco Emily Schrank Megan Golden 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Alexandra 
Photo Kilpatrick 
Tom La Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Candidate mails scratch and sniff attack ad 
SANTA ANA, Calif. — Something stinks in Orange County. It’s an attack ad mailed by Republican Congressional candidate Van Tran that paints a pic­ture of incumbent Democratic lawmaker Loretta Sanchez as an insider politician. Tran’s campaign manager George Andrews told the Orange County Register the mailer looks like a perfume ad and features a scratch­and-sniff patch that is sup­posed to smell like trash. 
The ad says: “It’s the stench of Washington.” 
Sanchez’s campaign man­ager Caroline Hogan said the mailer is a gimmick in 
Michelle Gaseor  Nick Pagani  Dianna Bartone  Stephanie Walz  Connor Barth  Alexa Craig  
senior  freshman  sophomore  junior  freshman  freshman  
Howard  Keenan  Pangborn  off campus  Keenan  Pangborn  

“Mrs. Claus.” “NDSP.” “Buzz “The Little “NDSP.” “A ninja.” Lightyear.” Mermaid.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

poor taste and the con­gresswoman has been campaigning on issues of importance to local fami­lies. 
Sanchez is facing the first serious challenge to her seat since she was elected in 1996. 
Thieves trim tail hair from horses in Montana 
BOZEMAN, Mont. – At least two southwest Montana horse owners are reporting thieves trot­ted off with tail hair from their horses. Such hair can be valuable to makers of handcrafted horse bri­dles or other items. Sandy O’Rourke reported some­one entered a Three Forks corral on Oct. 17 and cut off the tail hair of two horses and part of the mane of a third horse. The hair was cut off below the bony section of the tail. The horses were not injured. 
In Dillon, Bob and Connie Riley are offering a $500 reward for informa­tion leading to whoever snipped the tail off their horse about a month ago. 
Horses use their tails to communicate with one another and to swat flies. Bob Riley told the Bozeman Daily Chronicle that it takes four to five years for the tail to grow back. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The lecture “U.S. Foreign Policy and the Illiberal Peace” will take place today at 12:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Lise Morje Howard, assistant professor in the Department of Government at Georgetown University, will speak. The lec­ture is free and open to the public. 
The First Year of Studies will sponsor a RefWorks Workshop today at 2 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center. First Year students enrolled in the FYS program are encouraged to register. 
The seminar “Assessing the Impact of Future Sea-level Rise and Climate Change on Hurricane Flood-level Statistics” will take place today at 3:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall Room 138. Jennifer Irish, assistant profes­sor of coastal and ocean engi­neering at Texas A&M University, will present. 
The Annual Blue Mass will take place today at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The Mass is offered for police officers, firefighters, rescue workers and their fami­lies. The Mass will be followed by a reception in the Coleman-Morse Center. 
The Notre Dame Last Lecture Series kicks off today at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Mendoza College of Business Professor Edward Hums will deliver his “last lecture” to stu­dents, providing words of wis­dom regarding his series of teaching and life experience. It is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Friday GAME DAY Sunday Monday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



47 40 HIGH 5161 5553
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


32 32 LOW 3635 3730 






Thursday, October 28. 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Moreau fellows adjust to life on Notre Dame campus 
last year, she said. However, By AMANDA GRAY she said she is not worried 
News Writer 
because the number could 
double in a week’s time. 

Sekou Remy said he feels She said there is also a pos­like a freshman again on cam-sibility of selecting fewer than pus, even though he has a 11 applicants. Ph.D. “The word is out there,” she 
Remy, one of the 11 inaugu-said. “There’s quite a buzz ral fellows of the Moreau about it and it’s popular. We Academic Diversity have a number of internation-Postdoctoral Fellowship al applicants.” Program, said he is still learn-Ohmer said they won’t be ing his way around campus making any major changes to since his, and the other fel-the program because it has low’s, arrival on Aug. 1. been successful as is. 
“I like what I’ve seen,” he The program was designed said. “There are really cool to help celebrate diversity in things around. It’s a really all venues of life, not just nice campus and nice people.” diversity of racial background 
Remy is from Trinidad and or culture. In fields of study, Tobago and works in electrical seven of the fellows work in and chemical engineering. On the College of Arts and Letters, campus, he is working with while four work in science and the computer science and engineering. With funding help engineering departments. from the President’s Office, 
“I’m not teaching this semes-several deans and the Lilly ter, but next semester I’ll be Foundation, the program was teaching a class called a success, she said. ‘Assisted Robotics,’” he said. “We work with the idea of “I hope it will be a fun class. diversity,” Ohmer said. “The school and a non-engineering her play will be structured clearly offered all of this and All the other professors said it way these fellows exemplify school. In my work I can see around his life and work. more,” Garcia-Romero said. sounds fun and that they want diversity is either from under-similar problems across vari-She is also working on a “As a bi-cultural Latina, I was to take it.” represented groups or their ous disciplines.” book about Latina play-encouraged by Notre Dame’s 
Susan Ohmer, assistant research focuses on diversity. Anne Garcia-Romero, anoth-wrights. commitment to cultural diver-provost and co-director of the We have some women from er Moreau fellow and working “[The DeBartolo Performing sity. As a Catholic, I was also program, said she is thrilled fields with few women in in the Film, Television and Arts Center] is a phenomenal really interested in the oppor­with the fellows selected for them.” Theatre Department, said her facility,” she said. “The whole tunity to engage in a dialogue the first year of the program, Remy said he can apply ideas on diversity stem from thing is incredibly impressive. about issues connected to edu­especially as the committee is diversity to his field of study — her cultural background. The facility just blows every-cation in the Catholic tradi­now preparing for the second though not many attempt to do Born from a Spanish father one else out of the water.” tion.” year’s candidates. so. and an American mother, The fellowship has offered Remy’s only complaint is he 
“When I think about them, I “One of the things about Garcia-Romero works as a her a chance to practice her is hoping to discover more am bursting with pride,” she engineering is that there are playwright and a theatre pro-craft and teach, she said. The unique and interesting campus said. “They are fantastic in not many ways the traditional fessor. fellows are required to teach events. their fields and I’m really views of diversity fit in, like “I write about diversity in one course a semester while “I get the sense there is so proud of them.” skin color and culture differ-my plays,” she said. “In my working in their fields of much more to experience,” he 
The deadline for applicants ence,” he said. “It works in playwriting, I address and the study. said. “Like the midnight drum for next year’s slots is Nov. 1, different ways. How are you Latin and American cultures “As a scholar-artist, I was circle — that’s not in the ori­and Ohmer said she noticed a familiar with different ways to collide.” keenly interested in working entation. I look forward to few changes from last year. solve a problem? I can see Part of Garcia-Romero’s fel-in an institution which cham-experiencing things like that.” 
There are around 100 appli-that from going to a Catholic lowship is to write a new play. pioned research excellence, cations in so far, compared to school and a secular school, She said she is focusing on intellectual rigor and artistic Contact Amanda Gray at the 300 applications they had from going to an engineering Martin Ramirez, an artist, and achievement and Notre Dame agray3@nd.edu 
Fr. Tom Doyle. “No words can convey the 

Sullivan 

shock and grief we all are experi­continued from page 1 encing,” the e-mail said. “Declan 
was a well-liked, bright and “On Eagle’s Wings” and closed enthusiastic film and marketing with the congregation singing the student and a valued member of Alma Mater. the Notre Dame family. His death 
Following the Mass, attendees is a tremendous loss that will be processed to the Grotto, where felt very deeply and we share in about 150 students gathered and your grief during this incredibly recited a decade of the rosary. difficult time.” 
Junior Kathryn Greenfield, a Head football coach Brian Kelly friend of Sullivan’s who was also released a statement among the students at the Grotto, Wednesday night. said Sullivan was the first male “Our thoughts and prayers go student she became friends with out to Declan’s family and at Notre Dame. friends,” he said. “Declan was a 
“He is the nicest, most easy-diligent student worker in our going [person], always has a video department and had a smile on his face, always wants to tremendous personality and great have a good time,” she said. sense of humor. He brightened “Sweet person.” the days for all that had the privi-
Junior Alex Karamol agreed lege to work with him, and the and called Sullivan “a total sweet-Notre Dame football family will heart.” dearly miss him.” 
Greenfield and Karamol said Moss, who has been rector of they spent time sitting together in Fisher Hall for 12 years and in silence after hearing the news of education for almost 40 years, Sullivan’s death, but also spent has faced student death in the time telling stories about their past, and said it is always diffi­friend. cult. 
They recalled his signature “It’s always a tragedy when a facial expressions and phrases, young person is called home to and laughed while mimicking God,” he said. them for each other. A Mass of Remembrance will 
Karamol said her favorite be held in honor of Sullivan today memory of Sullivan was when at 10 p.m. in the Basilica of the she was in a film he made his Sacred Heart. The entire Notre freshman year because she saw Dame community is invited to her easy-going friend being seri-attend, according to the e-mail ous about his passion. sent to the student body. 
“It was a different side of him,” she said. Douglas Farmer contributed to 
The University notified students this report. of the death at 9 p.m. Wednesday in an e-mail signed by University Contact Sarah Mervosh at President Fr. John Jenkins and smervosh@nd.edu and Laura Vice President for Student Affairs McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 28, 2010 
at the federal government in aspect of the health care taken a strong stance on the impacts the everyday safety order for [students] to have bill, more steps are needed issue of abortion, which is of of American citizens, and 

Walorski 

a job when they get out of to control medical litigation particular importance to the therefore is an issue that continued from page 1 here.” and damages, otherwise Notre Dame community, not-must be addressed in an Walorski said she would known as tort reform. ing in the past she has appropriate manner. district she would serve. propose the 2011 budget be Walorski also said educa-worked to de -fund pro -“The number one job of 
“The research dollars, the frozen in order for the presi-tion represents an extremely choice institutions. the president of the United things that have happened in dent to audit agencies and important part of her politi-“The battle that is raging, States is to protect the this place, not only produce cut back on duplicative cal platform. She said one the reason that people are United States of America a great community for us, efforts. She said trimming thing that needs to be so angry, is because we are from foreign invasion and but a great alum community bureaucracy would help the changed is how talking about a threat of domestic assault around the world,” she said. job market. much responsi-tax supported inside,” she said. “I don’t 
Walorski previously “If we create a level of cer-bility teachers industry. I’ve see how you skirt that when 
“I think that one of 

worked as a local reporter, tainty at the federal level are being stood up to you have generals on the 
the biggest mistakes

and she said this exposed where they know there is charged with. P l a n n e d ground saying we are still her to various research ini-not going to be mandates “We are that happens in this Parenthood to not able to walk away from tiatives that are now coming coming down, that the next shoving an country is that we as de-fund them,” Afghanistan.” to life at the University. shoe is going to drop, we unbelievable she said. “I Overall, Walorski said the 
adult voters have

“Things that they were will see a flexibility of the burden on don ’t believe progress of her campaign so looking for are market where t e a c h e r s allowed this we should far makes her confident for now a reality. people are hir-because of the government to evolve force anyone the results Nov. 2. She said So this is the ing,” Walorski breakdown of who does not the unique nature of her 
“The research dollars, into this thing where
p a r a m o u n t said. the family believe in it to campaign has allowed her to issue for me,” the things that have In terms of [and] because bureaucrats make pay for it.” communicate her platforms she said. happened in this recent health of our culture military calls ” On the issue successfully. 
Walorski care reform, changi ng,” of the United “I’m as blue collar as they 
place, not only
said in terms Walorski said Walorski said. States’ military come. I’m self funding, it’s a
Jackie Walorski 

of her eco -produce a great one of the most “Teachers are presence in the real grass-roots race,” she nomic plat -community for us, but p o p u l a r responsible for, congressional candidate Middle East, said. “We have done a good form, the aspects cross-in many cases, Walorski said job of getting our message 
a great alum
country must ing party lines the kids more the safety of out.” control spend-community around particularly than the parents are and the troops and the decision Despite any political differ­ing, which will the world.” applies to col-they are responsible for an making of military personnel ences Walorski and Donnelly e s p e c i a l l y lege students. unbelievable amount of should guide government may hold, they do share a impact recent “I think the teaching, not just curricu-decisions in respect to the common devotion to the 
Jackie Walorski 
college gradu-issue of being lum.” area. Fighting Irish football team. ates in search congressional candidate able to carry Walorski also said the No “I think that one of the “I’m a Notre Dame fan, for employ -kids until they Child Left Behind Act has biggest mistakes that hap-and very, very grateful that ment. She said are 26 is prob-created problems in the edu-pens in this country is that Kelly is here as a coach,” her time serving the Indiana ably the most popular part cational system by compli-we as adult voters have she said. state legislature has pre -of the whole program,” she cating funding for schools, allowed this government to pared her to do it on a more said. “I have heard from which is controlled by each evolve into this thing where The second part of this broad level. Republicans and Democrats state. She said rectifying bureaucrats make military series will feature 
“What we have done in and Independents alike that this issue is extremely calls,” she said. “Military Democratic incumbent Joe these past six years is melt-because the job market is so important. calls need to come from the Donnelly. It will run it ed down our size of govern-tight they like the security of “The money needs to be generals on the ground that tomorrow’s Observer. ment, all aimed at protect-being able to carry college driven into the classrooms, we trust the president to put ing the taxpayer,” Walorski graduates until they are 26.” not the administrators, ” there.” said. “That has to be done Walorski did say that Walorski said. Walorski said she felt mili-Contact Sam Stryker at as a foundational measure despite that particular Walorski also said she has tary presence in the area sstryke1@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 28, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 28, 2010 

STUDENT SENATE 



Costumed members discuss communication 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student Senate was filled with Harry Potter characters Wednesday as its members dis­cussed ways to communicate more effectively with students across campus. 
In anticipation for Halloween, the members of Senate dressed as Harry Potter characters, and the student leaders became Ron Weasley, the Golden Snitch, Lord Voldemort, Hedwig, a demen­tor, the Whomping Willow and other figures from the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Student body president Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell led the meeting as Hermione Granger and Harry Potter. 
Moving to more serious top­ics, Soler and Bell discussed campus-wide e-mails, table tents in dining halls and poster displays around campus. 
Student government will host “Whine Week” in November to take suggestions and com­plaints from students in the dining halls, Soler said. 
Students can also join the Notre Dame Student Government fan page on Facebook to stay updated on student government events and submit comments to campus leaders. 
“We really want to encour­age students to send their feedback and their complaints through our Facebook page,” campus technology chair Casey Cockerham said. “Students live on Facebook anyways so it is a great discussion page.” 
Senators gave differing reports from their dorms on the effectiveness of “The Week” e-mails that are sent out to all students Sunday night with campus events to be held during the week ahead. 
“In my dorm girls said they really liked ‘The Week,’” Welsh Family Hall senator Elizabeth Jen said. “They just wished it would be more effective if it was organized by date.” 
Some senators said members of their dorms disregard “The Week” because the information is not concise. 
“A lot of guys in Siegfried do not like ‘The Week,’” Siegfried senator Kevin McDermott said. “They preferred bullet points or direct links.” 
Lyons Hall senator Erinn Riley said a more localized ver­sion of “The Week” e-mails sent out within the dorm rather than across the whole campus might be more suc­cessful. 
Senators also discussed posters and other information displays on campus. 
“A lot of people in my dorm like the table tents in dining halls that are quick and easy,” McDermott said. “But many people overlooked posters because there are so many.” 
Student Senate also dis­cussed possible changes to midterms week. 
“During finals week there are limitations on what activi­ties are available so there will not be a ton of distractions,” Bell said. “During midterms week all those commitments are still out there.” 
Some members of Senate said they wanted more empha­sis on midterms week. 
“Midterms are usually as much as or about five percent less of my grade than my final exams,” chief of staff Nick Ruof said. “But midterms week seems the same as any other week in the semester.” 
Most senators said the sched­ule for midterms was too stag­gered to limit help everyone. 
“Most clubs also recognized that it was time for midterms and everyone was busy,” Cavanaugh senator Tegan Chapman said. “Nothing needs to be mandated.” 
Soler concluded the meeting by reminding the senators to save their costumes for the Harry Potter dinner to be held on Nov. 17. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Hub 
continued from page 1 
mini resume online — it becomes a living document.” 
Adam said the Hub is also about getting advice from 
others in the Notre Dame community and addressing communication issues between students in different colleges. 
“It’s been a really interdis­ciplinary project,” she said. “We’re sponsored by CUSE, and pulling in money from [various] academic depart­ments.” 
Baranay said other univer­sities have networking sites similar to the Hub, but theirs are based on more of a social model. The Hub’s focus is much more academic. 
“CUNY [The City University 
of New York] has a site called the CUNY Commons, which is not as specific as the Hub,” he said. “In terms of prestigious universities, Notre Dame is the first one pushing towards this [kind of thing].” 
Adam and Baranay began actively working on the Hub last May. They met with sen­ior Cristin O’Connor over the summer, who was developing the site’s layout and design. 
“In terms of the architec­ture — that was mostly done by OIT-affiliated students,” Baranay said. 
Baranay said former pro­fessor of Anthropology Daniel Lende originally came up with the idea for blogs spotlighting research and academic engagements at Notre Dame. Lende then con­tacted Cecilia Lucero, assis­tant director of Undergraduate Research in the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE). Lucero got in touch with Adam and Baranay, who have been working on the project ever since. 
Lucero is the current advi­sor for the Hub. 
“We have a big mix of peo­ple on the editorial team,” Baranay said. “Everyone has different interests, which is [what we wanted].” 
Besides Adam, Baranay and Lucero, the Hub team includes freshman Chris Moore, sophomore Eric Huang, juniors Rosie Conover and Amanda Jonovski, and seniors Annette Ruth, Cristin O’Connor and Dan Jacobs, who is also the photo editor at The Observer. 
The Hub itself is public, but in order to post entries or comments, a Notre Dame ID is required. Barany said right now they are focusing on reaching out to under­graduates, faculty and staff but including alumni is a long-term goal. 
“We’ve had a really posi­tive response,” Adam said. “It’s a new way to engage in the discussions we’re already engaging in, but in a more public way.” 
Baranay agreed. 
“The Hub is about pushing yourself beyond what your familiar with, doing some­thing more,” he said. 
A launch party will take place today from 4 to 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. Free Jimmy John’s sandwich­es, T-shirts and books will be provided. 
Check out the newly launched website at thehub.nd.edu 


Contact Sarah Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 28, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Green Dot Initiative combats domestic violence 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
An initiative to prevent domestic violence has helped 13 Saint Mary’s stu­dents so far this school year, director of the Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO) Connie Adams said. 
Adams presented to the Student Government Association (SGA) at its meeting Wednesday to dis­cuss the Green Dot program, an initiative to help prevent domestic violence. 
BAVO began its office this year at the College, and the fact that students have used it shows the need for this kind of action on campus, Adams said. 
“There is such a need here and these are issues that affect all of us,” she said. 
The Green Dot Initiative encourages people to not ignore violence or situations that may lead to violence when they see it, Adams said. 

“Green dots are very sim­ple decisions, very simple actions we can take in our everyday lives,” she said. “[Green dots are] those times when you witness something that doesn’t seem quite right [and] finding ways when you see those things happen that you can really do something about it, taking that extra step.” 
Adams said there are many different motives why people avoid these situa ­tions, even when they sus­pect violence may be an issue. 
“There are a lot of reasons we don ’t take that extra step; we’re embarrassed, we wonder if what we see is really what we see, or we’re shy and don’t want to get noticed,” she said. 
According to Adams, one in four women will experi­ence violence in their life­time, which creates red dots, or acts of violence that she said do not need to be the case. 
“If we do nothing it is an acceptance of what is hap­pening and every time we accept it, it’s a red dot,” she said. 
For students interested in helping with the program can attend an informational meeting in the basement of Holy Cross today at 7:30 
p.m. There will also be a training session on Nov. 7 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. for students. Adams said there are limited slots, so students should RSVP if they are interested. 
Students who are interest­ed can contact her at cadams@saintmarys.edu. 
Rachael Chesley, student body president, also dis ­cussed two new SGA initia­tives being launched next week; the Board’s new web­site and its Discount Program, which will provide student discounts at select vendors when they are out in the South Bend communi­ty. 
Chesley said the Board will be working to market the website to students and hopefully making it part of the “Quicklinks” on the main Saint Mary’s site. 
“We want to try to get stu­dents to utilize it now so it becomes more habitual and they use it all the time, ” Chesley said. 
Information about the Discount Program will be included on the new web­site. Students will be able to use their ID cards to receive the discounts. 
“[Students] don’t have to register for it,” Chesley said. “It’s just a benefit for stu­dents.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


Pizza 
continued from page 1 
moral criteria in their push for health care reform, which include respect for life and conscience, affordability for the poor and access to much -needed basic health care for immigrants, Saile said. 
“Politically, the USCCB was 
one of the only pro -life organizations that supported health care reform,” she said. “That really kept as the table when the bill was being debated and discussed.” 
She said the USCCB came to an agreement with pro-life Democrats that health care would not be used for the federal funding of abortions. 
“The bill had to be fixed so that we could honestly say it didn’t provide for federal funding of abortions,” she said. “In the very end, the Rules Committee voted to allow one amendment, the Stupak amendment, which made that statement true.” 
While the USCCB recog ­nizes that the bill would pro­vide quality and affordable access to health care, there still are some issues, Saile said. 
“Immigrants would still most significantly be left out 
of health care, ” she said. “Even legal immigrants are somewhat cut out.” 
Saile said much of the health care bill has yet to be written. 
“A great deal of the bill uses the phrase, ‘the secre­tary shall,’ which means there isn’t a set policy in place,” she said. “It is impor­tant to continue to monitor what is going on with health care in the United States.” 
Bishops in the United States have been talking about the need for accessible and affordable health care throughout the 20th century, Saile said. 
“Health care is a moral issue and something that everyone, created in the image and likeness of God, has a right to, ” she said. “And that message has been constant in the USCCB ’s teachings.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, October 28, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Honoring Declan 

The entire Notre Dame family was deeply shocked and saddened by the news that 20-year-old Declan Sullivan died Wednesday in a tragic accident. 
Those who knew Declan best remember a driven, pas­sionate young man who always had a smile on his face. Declan was a valued contributor to 


Matt Gamber 
The Observer’s Scene section, and while I 

Editor-in-Chief 
didn’t know him as well as some others on staff, I have fond memories of several of the stories he wrote for us. He was never afraid to approach an intimidat­ing interview, and he consistently delivered arts and entertainment articles that demonstrated his enthusiasm for music and film while showcasing the personality loved by those closest to him. 
After attending an on-campus performance by The Roots and Mike Posner last spring, for exam­ple, Declan wrote a colorful review that expressed his satis­faction with the concert. Though we had to remove a certain adverb that preceded “epic” before sending the article to print, we still get a great laugh here in the office when we remember Declan’s “creative” writing skills. 
As a film student, Declan found interesting angles and presented unique insights in his stories, truly making each assignment his own. He secured interviews with rapper Shwayze and comedians Mike Birbiglia and Michael Ian Black, further demonstrating his commitment to the newspaper and his ability to connect with others. Declan was close with several members of The Observer staff, and he struck the perfect balance between being laid-back but excited to lay the groundwork to take on those tougher stories. 
Our editorial board had already gathered Wednesday before we heard Declan’s name, and we were together when we heard the shocking news. The Observer is a tightly knit organization, and Declan was a part of our family here at the paper. As we worked to speak to those who knew Declan and to tell the community about his life, we couldn’t forget that we were writing about one of our own. He was in the office ear­lier in the day Wednesday to turn in a routine reimbursement form. It still seems unreal that we will not get any more “epic” reviews from Declan. 
We join Declan’s family and friends and the entire Notre Dame community in prayer and remem­brance as we honor Declan and all of his contributions, not only to The Observer, but also to the University and to everyone he touched. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at aowens2@nd.edu 
A new era of slavery 

The other day, a friend of mine brought up the fact he wouldn’t mind paying 50 percent of what he made in taxes. Take a minute to think about that. That would mean that half of your working life would be as a Mark Easley virtual slave to 
Elephant in
the government. 
the Room

For the average person that would be 15-20 years of bondage where you worked long hours at your job without receiving your rightful pay. Sure, you get to choose where you work, but that is like trying to dif­ferentiate the slave that works in the house and the one that works in the field. Even a third of your income today going to the government makes you a part time slave. When you think about it in those terms, the fact that you will have to work twice as hard to get where you want to be by the time you retire is unbelievable. Well surely we are getting something for that money, and yes, we are — the great­est military in the world, a well estab­lished highway network and a mostly fair system of law to name a few — but we are increasingly getting stuff that a lot of us don’t need from the government. 
The government should not be bail­ing out failed companies and buying uncompetitive automakers with tax­payer dollars. Real health care reform needs to be implemented, not costly insurance reform in disguise. There is no strategy in the decade-long global war on terrorism, not due to lack of ability by our military, but lack of leadership from a president who inherited the war and refuses to end it like he promised. Taxation is too com­plicated. It should be obvious to 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
everyone how much they owe and the fact that is complicated is costing everyone tons of money and time. Social Security is virtually bankrupt and Americans are not getting their money’s worth. Our out of control spending policies of the last decade (by Republican and Democrat con­trolled congresses) have made spend­ing our way out of the recession through government stimulus a very risky move. 
All these factors plus many others are creating an unsustainable debt that will lead to only three scenarios. One: We come to our senses, make the tough cuts and reforms as a people, and balance our national budget in the next few years. Two: We collapse in the greatest depression in world history when we can’t pay off our debt and world financial markets freeze, probably leading to war and chaos. Three: We “own up” to our mistakes and enslave the middle and upper class of our country by taxing them to death and beyond until we pay off our incredible government spending. 
The first scenario is difficult, but obviously the best option for everyone involved. Unfortunately, most people don’t see the inevitable doom we are heading toward. The poor and igno­rant want their benefits and shout “screw the rich.” The politicians can’t fight the flow of Washington so they try to get as much of their state’s share of the pork as possible from the money printing machines that spew out more and more worthless paper every month. The unemployed desper­ately search for relief. And everyone else is disillusioned by a government that isn’t listening to the people. 
The second scenario is highly possi­ble given the interconnectedness of global markets. It only takes a small catalyst to expose the big cracks that still remain in our financial base. A European power that falls apart, a collapsed dollar, a WMD terrorist attack, an unstable Iran or N. Korea or a greedy China or Russia can put the world over the edge on any given day. 
The third scenario is most probable given the vast size of the US and the diversity of our economy. We can keep saving ourselves from complete disas­ter but someone has to pay for our irresponsibility and instead of the politicians, it will be hard working Americans who employ people and generate wealth. Guess who is going to be among that group? Yes, pretty much every single student that reads this article (college educated leaders on large and small scales). There is already talk about the biggest tax hike in US history coming soon, so don’t think it can’t happen to us. “The Overseer,” known to us as the IRS, is already in place to keep you honest. 
Slavery never works, because no matter how hard the slave works the results are the same. The slave remains enslaved and there are no rewards for doing better. Imagine this breaking of our collective will across the country and you will see why this likely future will kill our way of life from top to bottom. 
Are you ready to be a slave? The day is coming when you won’t have a choice. 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You can tell a lot about a fellow’s character by his way of eating jelly­beans.” 
Ronald Reagan Former United States president 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Never think that God’s delays areGod’s denials. Hold on; hold fast; hold out. Patience is genius.” 
Comte de Buffon French mathematician 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, October 28, 2010 page 9 
Let’s hear it for the underdogs 
I couldn’t help but overhear two of my colleagues commiserating the other day about the miserable state of this year’s World Series. Perhaps they miss the presence of their own beloved Phillies and Red Sox, or Kate Barrett possibly they feel genuine concern Faithpoint for the financial straits they have predicted for FOX, stuck with two such underwhelming potential champions. And maybe their forecast of doom will prove correct – unless you’re from San Francisco, or you’re one of the few people in Texas who has realized they have a baseball team, weren’t you hoping for a series played by big-name players from big-name teams? 
Well I say, let’s hear it for the little guy. The history of Christianity is filled with unexpected people receiv­ing unexpected chances: Imagine Mary, an unwed teenager, selected to bear the Messiah, or a bunch of mod­erately successful fishermen chosen to share in that Messiah’s life and work. We meet Zacchaeus in this Sunday’s gospel – perhaps the most famous little guy in the gospels, both by stature and reputation. He had a job and apparently quite a bit of money, but the Jewish people despised him for working for the gov­ernment of the hated Roman occu­piers, and they suspected him of embezzling as well. He ended up sur­prising everybody, as underdogs often do when you simply give them a chance. Jesus — who one might argue spent his life as an underdog himself 
— seemed to have a sense that Zacchaeus had something in him, some potential for goodness and integrity that everyone else had over­looked. And whether it had been in him all the time or the loving pres­ence of Jesus Christ called it out of him, Zacchaeus rose to the occasion with a burst of generosity that gave him a new and eternal greatness: “Today salvation has come to this house,” Jesus tells the grumbling crowd, and 2,000 years later we still read the story of little Zacchaeus in the context of our own salvation his­tory. 
Today the Church celebrates the feast of saints Simon and Judas, two of those apostles of Jesus, who remained so unknown that they are usually simply referenced by who they’re not: This Simon is not Simon Peter (the famous Simon), and this Judas (also called Jude or sometimes Thaddeus) is not Judas Iscariot. So these two are barely ever remem­bered as part of Jesus’ band of apos­tles, unless you had to memorize their names in grade-school religion class, and yet imagine how their lives were transformed by their participation in Christ’s public ministry. Our tradition holds that Simon and Judas eventual­ly suffered martyrdom for their beliefs and their willingness to preach the message of the risen Jesus Christ “to the ends of the earth.” 
Remember what Mary, an unexpect­ed hero if ever there was one, said to Elizabeth regarding her potential sta­tus as single-mom-to-be (surely not a desirable demographic in ancient Israel)? “My soul magnifies the Lord … he has looked with favor on the lowliness of his servant … He has brought down the powerful from their thrones, and lifted up the lowly; he has filled the hungry with good things, and sent the rich away empty.” Mary’s Magnificat is truly an anthem for the little guy. 
And so for anyone complaining about the two relatively anonymous teams in the World Series, consider just enjoying the opportunity to root for the unexpected participants we find at the top of this year’s heap. The Giants last won it all in 1954, and the Rangers have never — never! — even been to the World Series. Mary, and Zacchaeus, and Simon (not Peter) and even Jesus were all once people no one had heard of. If you do end up watching the games (and FOX sure hopes that plenty of us will) let them remind us again and again that good­ness, even greatness, often comes from the most unexpected people and places. We ought to then live with hearts as open as Mary, as bold as Zacchaeus, as generous and loving as Jesus. We never know whose lives might be transformed … including our own. 
This week’s Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program. She can be reached at Katharine.S.Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Lay off 
In response to the recent opinions in the view­point section, articles such as “Celebrate Seniors” (Oct. 26) and “Absence of toughness”(Oct. 26) are unfair to both our foot­ball program and the athletic department. I believe that it is obnoxious that one fan can pos­sibly have a letter published about how he should “storm the field,” after a loss. As an ath­lete here at Notre Dame and on a competitive team (fencing) that realistically can win a national title every year, the last thing I would want to see in my campus newspaper is an arti­cle by a fellow student which would celebrate our loss for a national title. Letters like this are not motivational, but rather insulting to the pro­gram and won’t change anything. 
Although students have criticized the apathy of the alumni, it needs to be remembered that the lack of motivation starts from the ground up with the students and fans. Writing letters which are negative towards the players only adds up to the incredible amount of stress players already receive from media, alumni, bloggers and espe­cially Mark May. 
The stigma of losing is more taxing for the players than any fan or class here at Notre Dame. No one will remember any individual fan or student, but people later down the road will point out names of players and coaches. They don’t need our help thinking about that. 
To follow up, if you feel important insulting the football team by writing in a newspaper, go fur­ther. I would love to hear you say how awful the team is to the faces of say, Dayne and company. They would love to hear your opinions in person. And how about next time you fail at anything (a test, a Madden game, attempted hookup, etc.), let’s invite the football team to painfully insult you with low blows and storm your residence. 
Jack Piasio 
sophomore Stanford Hall Oct. 27 


UWIRE 
The suicide vest 

I am brown, Muslim and Pakistani. 
You’d think those credentials would normally make me immune from terrorist attacks, considering it is widely believed that most terrorists are also brown, Muslim and Pakistani. 
Unfortunately, the war on ter-
Zeerak Ahmed 

ror, and terror itself, is all but normal. This is the story of a The Daily Pakistani struggling with that Princetonian abnormality. The more we try to simplify the situation, the less we have in our arsenal against extremist ideology. The best I can do in this column is complicate things for you, since grappling with confusion is better than set­tling for simplification. 
As much as most modern Pakistanis distance them­selves from an extremist ideology, it only takes a trip to New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport to remind me that we will remain connected to the so-called “funda­mentalist tendencies” back home. After all the time I’ve spent there, the secondary inspection room is no longer something that I need to get used to. It has already become a place to catch up on reading and meet other people who are also perhaps missing their connecting flights and have a headache. The poor pilots aren’t even spared. 
“Did you go anywhere but Pakistan?” an officer asked me last December. “No,” I said. “Have you ever been in a military?” “Have you ever owned a firearm?” Similar replies. This September, the whole charade lost its drama. The wait, much longer, was now quite anticlimatic. All they wanted to know was whether I lived on campus. “All that waiting for noth­ing?” I thought. “At least give me some credit for the hippie garb I’m trying to pull off. Heck, even the Pakistani authorities send me to anti-narcotics until they realize I’m going to New York.” 
We Pakistanis make jokes about everything (albeit, as you perhaps have witnessed now, and understand if you’ve ever talked to me, not very good ones). We learn ways to tune out all that goes on around us. Does that make me an innocent bystander? Or does that make me guilty of ignorance? 
I’ve lived in Pakistan for 20 years now. The last few have been turbulent, perhaps dangerous. But I’ve never witnessed an attack first-hand. Does that mean I’m not from the Pakistan most people imagine? Does that mean I’m elite (or elitist) or just plain lucky? 
A few days ago, one of my father’s colleagues was gunned down because of his continued public criticism of the extremist philosophy. He had been under threat, he knew what was coming, but he kept going, trying to get his word across. This was a great loss to the mod­erate cause and to humanity in general. 
Does that episode make me more of a bystander? Or perhaps more of a victim? 
If I say I understand where the extremists are com­ing from, does that make me more dangerous? I’m not saying I agree with them, but their thought process is plausible. It is flawed, but it contains some degree of logic. 
And what do I make of the fact that these fighters, criminals (although heinous ones), are not granted the same rights that prisoners or combatants must be in all other situations? What are we to say about the peo­ple who are unfortunate enough to live in the same village as one of these “terrorists” and are killed in an unsanctioned drone strike that was meant to eliminate the “threat”? 
Sure, our president is far enough from the reality of things to say that collateral damage does not worry him, but should that prompt us to forget the values that our country holds and apply separate standards to some segment of our citizenry? 
I ask a lot of questions. I don’t have many answers. Things are complicated, and they can’t just be sepa­rated into right and wrong. Similarly, many Pakistanis can’t be classified as one or the other, as terrorist or not terrorist, threat or not a threat, Taliban or not Taliban. 
The military has launched a full-scale war against these extremist elements. But Pakistanis were also confused when the war started. Many soldiers would ask, should we fight these men that claim to be holier than we are? Is it possible that perhaps they have some weight in their argument? Is it right to just go out and try to kill them? 
The decision became easier once schools, colleges and places of worships were attacked. What used to be sacred places are now battlegrounds. Every Thursday night, Sufi worshippers will worry whether they will come out alive from their shrines. The army, the police and the government are threatened, as are foreigners at times, but the individual citizen now bears the brunt of the threat. Every Friday, we no longer hug each other as we go to prayer; we pat each other down. Who knows where that suicide vest is hid­ing? 
Dialogue in the United States about Pakistan, and about the Muslim world in general, is oversimplified. There are no dichotomies. Muslims are often the “other” in most discussions in this part of the world. Every now and then I hear how many Americans have never met a Muslim or a Pakistani but would like to meet one. And every now and then I hear a Pakistani saying that there’s only so much they can do — of course a Pakistani will try to present the other side of Pakistan, but everyone’s sick of that story. 
I am brown, Muslim and Pakistani, and I’m con­fused. I hope you are too. 
This article first appeared in the Oct. 25 edition of The Daily Princetonian, the publication serving Princeton University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Thursday, October 28, 2010 


By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Writer 
“Red” is, at its most basic, exactly what you expect it to be — an excuse for a bunch of aging (but still great) movie stars to wield big guns and prove they’ve still got “it.” And is there anything wrong with that? “Red” isn’t likely to be on anyone’s Top 10 list this year, but it’s the type of cheesy cine­matic thrill that deserves a lit­
‘Red’ 
Directed by: Fobert Schwentke Starring: Bruce Willis, Mary-Louise Parker, MorganFreeman, John Malkovich, Helen Mirren 
tle appreciation. It’s a fun movie. It’s fun to watch Bruce Willis keep doing his tough guy thing, even at the age of 55. It’s fun to watch Morgan Freeman pretend to be a French diplo­mat. It’s fun to watch John Malkovich put on his paranoid-neurotic-but-deadly persona. And it’s really fun to watch Dame Helen Mirren shoot a machine gun. 
The film centers on Willis’ Frank Moses and his motley crew of RED (Retired Extremely Dangerous) cohorts. When the CIA tries to kill Moses and his crush, Sarah (Mary-Louise Parker), he gath­ers the old gang together to try to figure out why. That gang includes Freeman’s nursing home-bound Joe Matheson; Marvin Boggs (Malkovich), who was once given daily doses of LSD and Victoria (Mirren), a deadly assassin. 
The plot features typical political corruption, a fairly predictable ending and lots of explosions. With few surprises along the way, “Red” relies on its veteran cast, which also includes recent “Star Trek” star Karl Urban and famed Scottish actor Brian Cox, to make the movie more than just a stale, formulaic action flick. And the vets deliver. 
Bruce Willis can take down a handful of trained CIA agents without blinking an eye. Morgan Freeman has deadly aim with a handgun. John Malkovich has even deadlier aim when facing large missiles. And Helen Mirren maintains a composure reminiscent of her turn in “The Queen” when fir­ing a machine gun. The four, along with their talented costars, are hilarious to boot. 
The comedy draws primarily on geriatric jokes and strange accents, but in the hands of these seasoned pros, even the cheesiest joke is still funny. 
The cast really is superb, bringing their best to the table and clearly having a ball in the process. Helen Mirren and John Malkovich, though, are certainly the most memorable. There’s something about the image of Malkovich in a coat of dynamite running like a mad­man or Mirren in a regal white gown with combat boots on that is hard to forget. Karl Urban, in one of the bigger roles of his career, does a great job as the CIA is-he-good-or­bad agent. His fight scene with Bruce Willis is a definite “Red” highlight. 
With a lesser cast, “Red” probably would have been hor­rible. It’s unique because it’s an action movie starring an over-50 cast. But that’s where the movie’s distinctiveness ends. However, director Robert Schwentke (“The Time Traveler’s Wife”) seems keenly aware of the material and plays up the shtick. He empha­sizes all the right moments for a film that is a great blend of comedy, action and Hollywood superstardom. 
Ultimately, “Red” is entirely reliant on its fantastic cast to hold it together. Without them, specifically Willis, Freeman, Malkovich and Mirren, “Red” would be subpar at best. Even with them, it’s more an enjoy­able cinematic romp than a good movie. But there is exu­berance in the performances that make “Red” worth seeing. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, October 28, 2010 page 11 
“Dinner for Schmucks” DeBartolo 101 10 p.m $3 

Laugh with your friends at DeBartolo while watching “Dinner for Schmucks,” star­ring Steve Carell and Paul Rudd. Take a break from studying and enjoy this hilari­
ous movie along with candy and great company. Don’t miss it! 
Salsaween Legends NightclubMidnightFree entrance with student ID 
If you thought Salsa dancing was fun, just wait until you dance this Friday in your Halloween cos­tumes! Sing and dance the night away with a variety of Latin rhythms that will get this Halloween party started. Salsaween only happens once a year and you won’t want to miss it! 
A Nightmare on Eddy StreetHot Box Pizza in Eddy Street Commons 
10:00 p.m. to 3 a.m. Free entrance 
Hot Box Pizza is throwing a party for you to enjoy and have fun during your Halloween weekend! There will be live music featuring the bands VGB and the Power Plus Crew and The 
B.E.A.T. Get a group of friends togeth­er and enjoy the great location, deli­cious food and entertaining music. 
ND Women’s Soccer Big East Quarterfinals Alumni Stadium 1 p.mFree entrance 
Before heading out for some Halloween fun, don’t miss the Women’s Soccer Quarterfinals. Go and support our team on Sunday before heading back to study for next week or before getting ready for a great Halloween night. Go Irish! 


page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 28, 2010 
NBA 

Wade nets 30 in Heat victory over Philadelphia 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Dwyane Wade, LeBron James and Chris Bosh have their first win with Miami, and the Big Three got help from some big 3s in the Heat’s 97­87 victory over the Philadelphia 76ers on Wednesday night. 
Playing with purpose a night after an 88-80 loss in a hyped showdown with Boston, the three looked as if they still need some games to get used to playing with each other. Only Wade, with 30 points, looked particularly sharp against the Sixers. The Heat hit three straight 3-pointers in the third quarter to bust open an eight-point halftime lead. 
James scored 16 points and Bosh had 15. 
James and the Heat just could-n’t squash the Sixers, who went on a 15-3 run late in the fourth to make it surprisingly competitive. 
Wade’s tough driving layup gave him 30 points—on 10-for-20 shooting—and sealed the win. 
A James—not LeBron—led the Heat. James Jones hit 6-of-9 3s and scored 20 points. The Heat shot 50 percent from 3-point range—enough to make up for tough shooting nights from James and Bosh (combined 11 for 24). James had nine turnovers. 
“When we have our long ball going like that, it’s unlimited what we can do offensively,” James said. 
Up next, Friday’s home opener against Orlando. 
For all the buzz surrounding the Heat, there were plenty of patches of empty seats in the announced sellout crowd of 20,389 in the Sixers’ home open­er. 
Evan Turner led the Sixers with 16 points in his first NBA game. Lou Williams and Thaddeus Young had 15. 
All three came off the bench to help the Sixers outscore the Heat 33-17 in the fourth. 
“We know every night we go out, a team is going to want to beat the Miami Heat,” James said. “Especially on the road, you’re going to have the opposing crowd on you all game.” 
James heard the loudest boos when he was introduced from fans that can deliver them as vociferously as any city in the league. He heard them occasion­ally during the game, but the vol­ume was turned down and the noise mostly disappeared as the Heat pulled away. 
“I’ve been booed my whole NBA career,” James said. “They boo you because they love the way you play basketball.” 
One fan’s sign called James “LeBum, the lyin’ King” while another read “I witnessed no championship.” 
James was slow to warm up, and played the first quarter like it was a preseason game. He was whistled for a travel, an offensive foul and threw the ball out of bounds off a drive down the lane. 
James drew a crowd of onlook­ers during warmups, including several members of the Philadelphia Flyers. 
Before the game, James said he already forgotten all about the Boston loss. He didn’t seem to care about suggestions that teams were playing harder with a chance to shine against the mar­quee team in the NBA. 
“I’ve been a friend of that bulls-eye for a long time,” James said. 
Jones was the one right on tar­get. 
He hit four 3s during a 16-2 run in the second quarter that gave the Heat a 49-41 lead at the break. For most of the first half, the fired-up Sixers gave Miami a bit of a run. In Doug Collins’ first game as coach, the Sixers led 26­24 until Jones sparked a 10-0 run with the first 3 of his spurt. 
The Heat kept rolling from long distance in the third quarter. Jones hit two around one from Eddie House and the lead was 76­

51. Miami was up 80-54 after three. 
As for the Sixers, Collins said before the game his pieces didn’t all fit. It showed when he started Jason Kapono—one of the team leaders in DNP-CD’s last season. Kapono and starters Spencer Hawes and Jru Holiday combined for eight points. 
NBA 

New-look Cavaliers win season opener against Boston 
throws in the final 17.2 sec-seemed to be contesting if funeral in Mississippi. ‘Thank you.’ I thought it was 
Associated Press 

onds for Cleveland, dealt a Parker got the shot off in Things have changed dra-pretty funny.” 
CLEVELAND — LeBron’s devastating blow in July when time. It did appear to take matically since the teams met Before the game, Gilbert former team has already done James announced he was him several seconds to gather in the playoffs last season. said he did not regret criticiz­something his new, super leaving as a free agent. The himself and shoot. James is with Miami; former ing James in the hours after team in sunny Miami couldn’t: loss rocked a city that hasn’t Allen misfired on Boston’s Cavs coach Mike Brown is the superstar announced he Beat Boston. celebrated a pro sports cham-next trip, Pierce missed looking for work after being was leaving as a free agent. 
Playing its first game in pionship since 1964 and trig-another and Anderson fired; Shaquille O’Neal and Gilbert sent out a scathing let-seven years without LeBron gered predictions the Varejao made two free throws Delonte West swapped wine-ter to Cleveland fans, calling James, the Cleveland Cavaliers would slide back to put the Cavs up 91-86 with and-gold jerseys for green-James “narcissistic” and Cavaliers stunned the Celtics among the NBA’s bottom 24 seconds to go. and -white ones, and Scott “cowardly.” Later that night, 95-87 in their season opener dwellers. Rondo’s free throw cut it to returned to coaching after a James told The Associated Wednesday night, a win that Not just yet. four, but Gibson made two spin as a TV analyst. Press that he felt James quit at least for one night gave As the final seconds ticked free throws to make it 93-87. There wasn’t a trace of on the Cavs in Game 5 last local fans reason to believe off, Cleveland fans jumped for Pierce then missed again, and James inside an arena he season against the Celtics. that life will be OK minus the joy, owner Dan Gilbert Gibson put it away with two helped put on the NBA’s map. Gilbert didn’t back off from two-time MVP. pumped his fist and hugged more free throws, giving the Earlier in the day on a build-any of his remarks, and 
J.J. Hickson scored 21 those sitting near him, first-Cavs some sense of revenge ing outside, a giant black-believes the Cavs are a still a points, Daniel Gibson added year coach Byron Scott smiled after being bumped from the and-white banner depicting playoff team without James. 16 — all in the second half — and confetti fell from the ceil-playoffs last season by Cleveland’s skyline was hung “This team can certainly and the Cavaliers made sever-ing like it did so many times Boston. in the exact spot where make the playoffs and maybe al big, clutch plays to hold off while James was around. The Cavs played without James’ iconic image once tow-beyond that,” he said. “I’m the Celtics, who defeated With the score tied 86-all, starting point guard Mo ered over downtown. like anybody else. I can’t wait James and the Miami Heat on Cleveland’s Anthony Parker Williams, still working his No. 23 is gone, but hardly to see it. We have some very Tuesday night. drilled a 3-pointer with one way back from a groin injury forgotten. He’ll be back on good players and some very 
Rajon Rondo scored 18, Paul tick left on the 24-second shot before camp training camp Dec. 2, and Cleveland fans good players coming off the Pierce 13, Ray Allen 12 and clock. Boston got a tip-in from opened. Scott said Williams is can’t wait. bench. Not a lot of teams have Kevin Garnett had 15 Glen Davis, and during a “day to day” and wants him to While walking around the the quality of Antawn Jamison rebounds for Boston, which timeout, the officials reviewed get another few practices city, Rivers received congratu-and Daniel Gibson coming off led by 11 points in the third Parker’s shot and determined before he returns. Williams latory handshakes from Cavs the bench. When you think of quarter but was outscored 27-it was in fact a 3. played in just one preseason fans who thanked him for it in that sense, and having 14 in the fourth. Celtics coach Doc Rivers dis-game because of the injury, beating James. the kind of quality coach we 
Gibson, who missed his first agreed, shaking his head and and missed five days recently “I got lots of them,” Rivers have, anything can happen.” eight shots, made four free saying “No way.” Rivers to attend his father-in-law’s said, laughing. “They said, It already has. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS If you or someone you care about New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi has been sexually assaulted, we

FOR SALE FOR RENT from ND, next to Taco Bell on PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit Chess Lessons: USCF and FIDE SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran-Notre Dame's website: (International Chess Federation) ite countertops, GE appliances http://csap.nd.edu. Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess House for rent Corby/Jacobs, close w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't ———————————————— Champion and coach of 1997/8 K-8 to campus. Can provide furniture. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No go it alone. Notre Dame has many "I would never have called up Magic 
House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq ft National Championship team Includes Frig, new furnance. Great water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting. resources in place to assist you. If and Larry and suggested teaming home. 4BR 3.5BA. Furniture ?, fully Dennis Monokroussos is offering Location. Avail Imm. 480 650-8265 Call JSK Development 574-387-you or someone you love needs up. I wanted to beat those guys!" ­redone. $365K 574-232-2211 lessons to players of all ages and ND Alum. debrabarkr@aol.com 4466. confidential support or assistance, Michael Jordan 
levels (local and online). ———————————————— ———————————————— please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 
River house for rent. 3BR 2BA with or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more If you accept the expectations of Please contact historicchess@com-river frontage. 10 miles east of ND AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME information, visit ND's website at: others, especially negative ones, cast.net for rates and information. on Jefferson. Grad student pre-FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574-http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. then you never will change the out­
ferred. $1170 574-255-0322 876-6333 come. -Michael Jordan ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— 
Thursday, October 28, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NBA 

NBA to move draft to new location in Newark 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — The NBA will hold its 2011 draft in Newark, N.J., while Madison Square Garden undergoes renovations. 
Commissioner David Stern said Wednesday the event might keep moving around even after the work on the Garden is completed. 
The draft will take place at the Prudential Center on June 23, Stern said before the New Jersey Nets’ season opener against the Detroit Pistons. The Nets will play their home games at the arena for the next two years before a planned move to Brooklyn. 
The NBA hasn’t decided where to hold the 2012 and 2013 drafts while the Garden is under con­struction — and it may keep the road show going beyond that. 
Stern said the NBA had been thinking about moving the draft around again even before it learned the Garden wouldn’t be available. 
“The fact that it wasn’t, it gave us the capacity to begin talking to a lot of other cities,” he said. “I think it may have changed our perspective a little bit, because the draft has become a really cul­turally different event and a source of great popularity and publicity.” 
The draft was held in New York from 1979, when it became a public event, through 1991, and from 2001 until this past summer. In between, though, it bounced around North America for nine years, including a stop in the Nets’ former home in East Rutherford, N.J., in 1996. 
With Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov about to watch a game as Nets owner for the first time, Stern joked that the NBA could hold the draft in Moscow. 
The Prudential Center, which opened in 2007, is home to the NHL’s New Jersey Devils and Seton Hall basketball. The WNBA’s New York Liberty announced last month they’d play the next three seasons at the Prudential Center while the Garden was renovated. 
“We considered other cities. We had some relatively attractive offers,” Stern said. “But we thought that with the Nets coming here and the excitement that’s going to be generated for Newark, it was really the time to put the draft here.” 
Newark Mayor Cory Booker suggested that future cities should be picked through 1-on-1 basket­ball games between their mayors 
— as long as Sacramento’s Kevin Johnson, the former Phoenix Suns All-Star, is disqualified. But Booker said he’d take on Detroit’s mayor, 66-year-old Hall-of-Famer Dave Bing. 



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 28, 2010 
MLB 

Barry Bonds still infuential in San Francisco 

NBA 

Knicks hold off Raptors to open season with win 
outrebounded the Raptors 49­
Associated Press 
45. 

TORONTO — Wilson Barbosa made a 3-pointer Chandler scored 22 points, at 10:48 of the fourth, giving Amare Stoudemire had 19 Toronto a 77-76 lead, its first points and 10 rebounds and since the second quarter. New the New York Knicks beat the York reclaimed the lead Toronto Raptors 98 -93 on before Toronto's David Wednesday night. Andersen tied it with a 3­
Chandler scored eight point play. Chandler scored points in the final quarter on the next two possessions and Stoudemire added seven to give the Knicks a four-for New York, which led 74-point edge, and New York 72 through three. never trailed again. Stoudemire, the Knicks' prize Jack made two free throws, free agent acquisition, is hop-then added a layup with one ing to lead New York back to minute left, cutting it to 96­the playoffs for the first time 93. Kleiza's 3-pointer rimmed since 2004. out on the next possession 
Andrea Bargnani scored 18 and, after a New York miss, points in the first half but had Barbosa airballed a 3 from just four in the second for the corner, giving the Knicks Toronto, which had won eight the ball with three seconds 
of 
its previous nine home remaining. Felton was fouled openers. The Raptors were and iced it with a pair from playing their first game with-the line. 

out 
star Chris Bosh, who Toronto trailed by 16 points signed with Miami in the off-early in the second but cut season. He spent seven years the deficit to one, 44-33, with in Toronto. an 11-0 run capped by a 3­


Raymond Felton scored 15 point play by Kleiza with 3:52 points, Danilo Gallinari had left. The Knicks held firm and 12 and Landry Fields 11 for led 51-47 at the break. the Knicks, with Toney Felton scored seven points Douglas adding 10. in the third as New York car­
Toronto's Reggie Evans had ried a two-point edge into the 16 rebounds but the Knicks fourth. 
has changed, too. These Giants are the anti-Barrys, a team of singles hitters who struggle to score more than a few runs a game but somehow have enough faith in each other to have made it to the World Series. 
They have guys with cute nick­names like The Freak and Kung Fu Panda. There are no over­sized heads, though there is one very bizarre beard. 
“I think it’s kind of a lesson in baseball 101, in some cases humility, in that A, we don’t have a superstar and B, we really don’t have a team of stars and C, we’ve got enough talent, whether young or old or experi­enced with people who have won the World Series, and also depth,” general manager Brian Sabean said recently. “It’s truly a team that knows that on each given day they’ve each got to do their job and somebody will step up and help us win a game. For that very reason the fans are endeared by it.” 
Bonds was hardly an endear­ing figure, his personality often more odorous than the scent of garlic fries that permeate this stadium. He rarely signed auto­graphs and seemed contemptu­ous of the people who paid his salary. 
Still, they hung chickens over the wall in right field every time an opposing pitcher gave him a free pass and cheered wildly when one of his mammoth blasts cleared the walls. The splash count on the right field wall — 
— Bonds has 35 of the 55 balls the team hit there in 10 years — is still a reminder of the great­ness fans witnessed at the plate. 
It’s been three years now since Bonds last splashed one in McCovey Cove, three seasons since he launched the home run that passed Henry Aaron. The Giants have moved on, declining to offer Bonds another contract. 
He visited the clubhouse Wednesday and talked vaguely of helping to coach the Giants someday. Before that happens, though, there’s the upcoming trial and the possibility Bonds could spend some time in a place other than on a field. 
“I have a gift and sooner or later I have to give it away. I have to share it,” Bonds said in a hallway before the game. “Hopefully, I’ll get the opportuni­ty here. This is where I want to 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — The statue out front says Willie. The cove past right field belongs to McCovey. 
But the place still feels an awful lot like Barry. 
Not in the Giants locker room, where the leather recliner Barry Bonds liked to sit in and watch his own personal big screen TV is gone. Tim Lincecum has the corner spot now, and has plenty of room since the massive ego of baseball’s greatest — and most suspect — slugger no longer resides at AT&T Park. 
And maybe not over the right field fence, where regulars still paddle their kayaks furiously at even the hint of a long ball splashing near them. The home runs that used to land there with such regularity when Bonds played are now largely a novelty among the current group of small ballers who make up a not-so-fearsome Giants lineup. 
But if this isn’t the park Bonds built, it is the park he owned. He played in a World Series here, and he made baseball history here in front of cheering fans who found a way to ignore what seemed obvious. 
“This ballpark will always by synonymous with Barry Bonds,” said Barry Zito, who had the locker next to Bonds. “He’s the greatest player ever to play the game.” 
Bonds doesn’t play the game anymore, even though he still hasn’t officially retired. Unsigned after his march to break Henry Aaron’s record in 2007, his only real connection with the team he dominated for 15 years has been a few perfunctory appearances at games. 
The slugger who nearly car­ried San Francisco to its first World Series title in 2002 with home runs in the first three games was at Game 1, though in an unofficial capacity. He wasn’t asked to join six Giants greats of the past — minus Willie Mays, who wasn’t feeling well — in throwing out the ceremonial first pitch. 
It’s not hard to figure out why. 
The Giants have a date with destiny. He has one in a federal courtroom. 
The stigma of the steroid years refuses to fade, especially for the guy who hit 73 home runs in 2001 while playing in a pitcher-friendly park. Bonds is sched­uled to go on trial next March in San Francisco on charges of lying to a grand jury about tak­ing steroids, and prosecutors have put together a list of former players who will testify against him. 
Look around AT&T Park and it’s hard to find any evidence the backbone of the franchise for all those years even played here. The huge banners in center field that featured his likeness during the historic home run chase are gone, and there are no “756” signs to mark the historic home run that put him on top the all-time list. 
While Mays has a statue out­side the main entrance and McCovey has his cove, all Bonds has is a plaque embedded in the sidewalk outside the right field wall where other milestones in Giants’ history are also duly noted. 
The team he once played for be when the time is right.” 
The time certainly isn’t right now, not with the current team of overachievers that has a chance to give fans something equally special by winning the World Series for the first time since the Giants moved west in 1958. 
With Bonds, fans often had to offer an explanation to go along with their cheers. With this group, no explanation needed. 
Four more wins, and the Giants could cap the most improbable of seasons with a championship trophy. 
Four more wins, and the place may not feel so much like Barry anymore. 


Thursday, October 28, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Kenny Britt begins to shine in role with Titans 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Start ticking off the NFL’s biggest and best wide receivers, and names include Andre Johnson, Larry Fitzgerald, Chad Ochocinco and Terrell Owens. 
Kenny Britt’s name doesn’t come to mind. 
Not yet, anyway. 
The Titans receiver has the size, weight and speed to be 
one of the NFL’s top pass catchers. He put together the NFL’s best performance by a receiver this season with seven catches for 225 yards and three touchdowns — all after spending the first quar­ter on the bench as punish­ment for his role in a bar fight. 
Tennessee plays San Diego Sunday, and Britt certainly has Chargers coach Norv Turner’s attention. 
“There are just a few guys that have that rare, explosive speed and quickness,” Turner said Wednesday. “When he gets going, he gets his head 
of steam up. In the Philadelphia game, he gets matched up with those safeties that is tough duty for everybody. He was extremely impressive in the way he played last week.” 
That’s why the Titans made Britt the first player ever drafted out of Rutgers in the first round in 2009, looking for the kind of receiver they haven’t had in years. 
The 6-foot -3, 215 -pound Britt provided glimpses of his talent as a rookie. 
He led the team with 701 receiving yards — fifth in the NFL among all rookies — and played in all 16 games. He averaged 16.7 yards per catch, eighth in the NFL. His best game was against Arizona; Britt had 128 yards and the game-winning catch as time expired. 
Titans cornerback Jason McCourty, who defended Britt in practice when both played at Rutgers, said Britt boasted back in college about the type of receiver he would be. 
“The moment he stepped on the field, he kind of backed that up. Just the way he plays, the physical nature. He’s not afraid to take a hit. The type of athleticism he posses, I always knew he’d be able to get to this level and be able to excel,” McCourty said. 
But Britt, who left college after his junior year, coasted into his second NFL season — so much that Titans coaches didn’t immediately clear him to practice once the team resumed its on-field training last spring. 
He also has had other issues. 
Britt was arrested in January for three outstanding traffic warrants (he paid the $865 due and was released). Nashville police stopped him in August during training camp, ticketing him for driv­ing without a license because he obtained a photo I.D. after misplacing his license. 
Titans coach Jeff Fisher even benched the receiver after repeated mistakes dur­ing a preseason game. Britt, who didn’t turn 22 until five weeks ago, insisted he under­stood he had to focus at work. 
And he did. When Justin Gage hurt his left hamstring Oct. 3 against Denver, Britt moved into the starting line­up and caught a TD pass in four straight games. 
Then Britt took another step back early last Friday. 
Harold Pointer, 29, told police that Britt joined in a fight and struck him several times during an altercation at the Karma Lounge, a Nashville nightclub. A police investigation into misde ­meanor assault remains open. 
Fisher sent Britt home before practice Friday and benched him for the first quarter against Philadelphia. All of which made his per­formance against the Eagles even more impressive. 
He had a 26-yard TD on his first series fighting off safety Ellis Hobbs for the ball before getting going in the fourth quarter. Then he had an 80­yard catch and run for a TD and a 16-yarder. 
The Eagles couldn’t stop him. 
Britt now ranks second in the NFL with seven TD catch­es with a game that was the Titans’ best since 2004 when Drew Bennett had 233 yards against Kansas City. 
“The easy thing to do is point to the guys covering them and so on ...,” Eagles coach Andy Reid said. “And so, that’s my responsibility for reeling that thing in and making sure that we, when you’re given opportunities, man, that you put your foot down and you’re not denied there.” 

Titans defensive back Vincent Fuller said Britt’s play after the bar fight was a tremendous lift the receiver. 
“It’s a confidence thing,” Fuller said. “Right now, he’s playing lights out football and had been weeks prior. It’s good he’s able to do that and let whatever goes off the field happen and come to work.” 
Britt’s status for Sunday remains unknown. Fisher has said he might punish Britt further, and the coach said Wednesday he expects the legal case to be resolved by the weekend. 
The receiver didn’t talk to reporters on Wednesday, but Britt insisted after the Eagles’ win that he has learned his lesson. Whether this game is his launching pad to more success remains to be seen. 
“My focus is to stay level headed, ” Britt said then. “And God has a path for all of us and I believe that God has put me on a path, and I’m just following it.” 


NBA 
Nets finish strong to win opener over Pistons 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — Anthony Morrow hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 26 seconds to play and the New Jersey Nets gave Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov a win in his first game as their owner with a 101-98 victory over the Detroit Pistons on Wednesday night. 
The Nets outscored the Pistons 13-3 in the final 1:40 to give Avery Johnson a win in his first game as coach — coming much quicker than last season, when they set an NBA record by losing their first 18 games. 
Brook Lopez led the Nets with 25 points and nine rebounds, and Devin Harris added 22 points and nine assists. Morrow, who was signed a free agent in the offseason, added 13 points and Jordan Farmar and Terrence Williams each had 10. 
Tayshaun Prince, Rodney Stuckey and Charlie Villanueva had 14 points apiece for the Pistons, who had seven players in double figures in the Nets’ first regular-season game at the Prudential Center. 
The Pistons had two chances to tie in the closing seconds. Villanueva missed a 3-pointer with 2 seconds to go and Stuckey missed a desperation heave from the corner at the buzzer after Williams missed two free throws at the other end. 
The Nets, who won a fran­chise-low 12 games last season, seemed headed for another opening-night loss when Richard Hamilton (13 points) hit a 3­pointer from the left corner with 
1:40 remaining for a 95-88 lead. 
Farmar cut the gap to 95-91 with a 3-pointer from the left wing with 1:31 to play, then stripped Ben Gordon on the other end. Harris created con­tact with Gordon at the other end and converted a three-point play with 57 seconds left to cut the lead to 95-94. 
After Stuckey missed a shot under pressure from Farmar, Morrow put the Nets ahead 97­95 after Harris nearly lost the ball and flipped it back to him. 
Villanueva missed a 3-pointer on the Pistons’ next possession with 18 seconds to go and Harris pushed the lead to 99-95 with two free throws with 16 seconds left. 
Villanueva cut the deficit to a point with a 3-pointer with 14 seconds to go but Farmar made two free throws for the Nets’ final points a second later. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 28, 2010 
NFL 

Young QBs look to Favre as example 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Aaron Rodgers and Mark Sanchez have followed the same set of imposing footprints to starting jobs in the NFL. 
They’re both from California, played in the Pac-10 in college, share the same agent and were first-round draft picks a few years apart. They’re also the only quar­terbacks — for now — who can say they replaced Brett Favre. 
That’s a unique bond that ties them together — even if they don’t know each other all that well. 
“I’ve just seen him at a few events and watched him play quite a bit in the Pac-10,” said Sanchez, the New York Jets’ quarterback. “He’s a great guy, from what I know hanging out with him a couple of times. He’s definitely, I think, one of the most underrated quarterbacks in the league.” 
Rodgers took over in Green Bay in 2008 — three years after being the 24th overall draft pick — fol­lowing Favre’s retirement and then bitter divorce from the Packers. Sanchez became the Jets’ quarterback a year later, after Favre stopped in New York for one disappointing season before briefly retiring again and then signing with Minnesota. 
Both have become franchise quarterbacks with bright futures, far removed from Favre’s huge shadow. Rodgers is one of the league’s most dangerous passers, while Sanchez has improved 
NBA 
greatly following a shaky rookie season. 
The two will play against each other for the first time Sunday, when the Packers come to the New Meadowlands Stadium. 
“He’s always been a great guy,” Sanchez said of Rodgers. “So, I’m excited to see him play.” 
They first met six years ago when Sanchez was a senior in high school and Rodgers was entering his junior season at the University of California. 
“We were at a quarterback camp in Southern California and when I saw him then,” Rodgers said, “I knew he had a lot of tal­ent.” 
Rodgers was drafted by the Packers that spring as the succes­sor to Favre, but had to wait patiently on the sideline for a few years. The two weren’t particu­larly close, and Rodgers had the challenge of replacing a player who had established a legacy as a winner and fan favorite. 
He helped everyone move on from Favre by becoming the first player in NFL history to throw for 4,000 yards in each of his first two seasons as a starter. Rodgers also joined San Francisco’s Steve Young (1998) last season as the only quarterbacks to throw for 4,000 yards and 30 touchdowns and rush for 300 yards and five scores in the same season. 
“He’s definitely one of the best and he’s doing a heck of a job,” Sanchez said. “He gets the ball to his receivers quick, is very accu­rate on the run and he’s a really good leader for that team.” 

Duncan and Ginobili lead Spurs past Pacers 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO — Tim Duncan had 23 points and 12 rebounds, and the San Antonio Spurs beat the Indiana Pacers 122-109 on Wednesday night in the sea­son opener for both teams. 
Manu Ginobili scored 22 points for the Spurs, who blew an early double-digit lead and nearly their goal of starting strong in what could be the last season for their Big Three. 
Roy Hibbert led Indiana with 28 points and Danny Granger had 26. Darren Collison scored 19 points in his debut for the Pacers, who fell apart in the fourth quarter. 
Tony Parker, starting the final year of his contract with the Spurs, had 20 points and nine assists. 
No longer among the NBA favorites, the Spurs are mind­ful of beating the teams they should beat and not falling behind early in the West. San Antonio labored out of the gate with an overhauled ros­ter last year and doesn't want to be so patient this time. 
The Pacers, coming off a dreadful 32-win season, showed promise before squan­dering a close game. They erased an early 10-point deficit thanks to Hibbert, who was 10 of 17 from the field, and carried a slim lead late into the third. 
But the Spurs pulled away in the fourth. 
Richard Jefferson opened the final quarter with a 3­pointer from the corner, and after Mike Dunleavy missed two free throws that would have tied the game, Ginobili gave the Spurs momentum for good with another 3-pointer. 
Ginobili was 5 of 9 from behind the 3-point line in a familiar Big Three-led win for the Spurs. How much longer the championship trio will be together is in doubt with Parker in the final year of his contract, though the star point guard has repeatedly said he wants to remain in San Antonio. 
Collison was 7 of 13 and had seven assists. The Pacers hope they've found their point guard after years of shuffling at the position, acquiring the New Orleans point guard who filled in for Chris Paul when Hornets star was injured last season. 


Thursday, October 28, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
that make it a special place to coach. Among those is the abili­ty to maintain relationships with his players beyond gradua­tion. 
“Being at Notre Dame I am able to see a lot of my former players in the fall when they come back to football games,” Louderback said. “It is always exciting to see them and their families.” 
He also tries to instill a cer­tain degree of fervor the game that both he and his players love. 
“I have always tried to show the passion I have for my job and hoped [the players] can find their passion,” Louderback said. 
Although Louderback has had a career loaded with success, he says the highlight of his career is a 2003 victory over then Big East rival Miami. 
“We had lost to them the week before 6-1 and beat them 4-3 in the final,” Louderback said. 
This year’s team, Louderback said, has its own uniqueness as well as similarities to teams he has coached in the past. 
“This year is the first year that half of our team is our freshman class,” Louderback said. “With that many freshmen we are going a little slower in how we practice and the con­cept of how we play as a team in an individual sport.” 
But, like Louderback’s teams in the past, the Irish are looking to build on their success in the past and surpass those marks. 
“We do have a bunch of com­petitors who like to play which has helped us do well in the past,” Louderback said. “We are excited about such a young team and think we can continue to compete for a national cham­pionship.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles fnish season with win 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s closed the book on a tough season with a win over Trine. 
The Belles (3 -16, 1-7 MIAA) traveled to Trine University (3-15-1, 0-8) for a 3-1 victory. Trine got on the board first less than five minutes into the game with a goal from senior Jen Wall. The Belles responded in the 24th minute with an unassisted goal from junior Katelyn Tondo-Steele. Two minutes later, sophomore Maddie Mecks knocked in a header off a pass from freshman Mollie Valencia for a 2-1 lead. 
In the 35th minute, Tondo -Steele scored the Belles ’ third goal off an assist from sophomore Ashley Morfin. Sophomore goalkeeper Caitlin Walsh had two saves in goal on the night to hold Saint Mary’s lead. 
The Belles fired 11 shots 
overall, seven of which were on goal, while the Thunder got 10 shots off. 



The shots on “I think our work thing they 
goal came rate is second to have until the from senior final whistle.” 
none in the league.” 
Corissa Hart, The Belles junior Keely have faced a Noonan, Michael Joyce season of Tondo -Steele Belles coach tough com ­
and Mecks. 
Belles coach Michael Joyce credits the tenacity of his players with their success. 
“I think our work rate is second to none in the 
league,” Joyce said. “Our players will give every ­
petitors but 
are excited to head into the off -season with a win. 
“We ’re looking at the game as a setup for next year. We want to finish our 


Lex 
continued from page 20 
strength of mine.” 
Lex is no stranger to diving success with the Irish. As a freshman, Lex finished ninth at the Big East championships in the three-meter event and earned third the following year in the same event as a sopho­more. The Irish won the confer­ence title both years. 
“It is a great feeling having the team come together and accomplish something like this for Notre Dame,” Lex said. “I take immense pride in being a part of something so great, and the lessons I have learned from the coaching staff as well as my teammates have been very spe­cial to me.” 
Lex has seen much improve­ment in his diving so far this season and credits his fellow swimmers and rigorous train­ing schedules as keys to his suc­cess. 
“Although there is absolutely room for improvement, I believe that the training sched­ule this year and the overall team atmosphere has had an extremely positive influence on my performances thus far,” Lex said. 
season out on a positive note so we’re motivated in the off-season,” Joyce said. “We’ve competed this year but need to get a little bet­ter and are just missing 
one or two more quality players to really make a leap in the conference. With only one senior this year, I’m hopeful that recruiting will go well and we’ll be in the win column more next year.” 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
Lex also holds the support of his teammates as necessary for what he considers his best per­formance of the year at the Oakland/Michigan meet. 
“I felt that everything really came together and my level of focus was great,” Lex said. “My teammates were extremely sup­portive and I don’t see myself having been able to perform that well without the support and competitive spirit they pro­vide everyday at practice as well as in the meet atmos­phere.” 
Notre Dame’s next challenge will come when it hosts Purdue on Nov. 6. Irish head coach Tim Welsh is preparing the team for a very tough meet. The diving competition should be especial­ly exciting. 
“Purdue’s diving is outstand­ing. They have one of the best programs in the country, led by Olympic diver Adam Soldati,” Welsh said. 
After his wins against Michigan and Oakland, Lex is ready to take on Purdue. 
“I feel confident going into a very competitive Purdue meet,” Lex said. “I’m hoping to use these meets as a stepping stone for the meets to come.” 
Contact Maija Gustin  at mgustin@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 28, 2010 
Clark 
continued from page 20 
stuck to playing good soccer and you felt it was a matter of time. We certainly took awhile, but it was great that Brendan was able to get the goal. From our point of view, it was one of those wins we had to have.” 
The Irish opened the game controlling possession, with sophomore midfielder Dillon Powers and senior defender Greg Klazura leading a smoth­ering Notre Dame defensive effort and a clean crisp pass­ing display. The Irish held the ball for the majority of the first half, holding the Panthers to just three shots in the peri­od. 
“Whenever we lost the ball, we had a tremendous appetite to get back and get the ball. We held the ball for long peri­ods of time,” Clark said. “When they took it away we immediately got on it and got the ball back.” 
A number of missed chances early on in the contest caught up to Notre Dame when the Panthers got on the board first from a header off a free kick by freshman defender Alex Harrison in the 23rd minute. The Irish answered right back, storming down the field as a shot from Klazura hit the post and caromed to Perry, who buried the equalizer for the second goal in a minute of action. 
“It was a good shot from Greg,” Clark said. “Of course Perry picks it up, that’s his tenth goal of the season. But it was a great response.” 
The Irish grabbed a second goal four minutes later when Perry was taken down by 


Panthers freshman goalie Matt Aberegg in the penalty box and senior midfielder Jeb Brovsky converted the penalty kick. 
“I thought we could have had several penalties. There seemed to be a couple hand­balls that weren’t called, a few tackles,” Clark said. “Anyways, we got one more goal than them and that’s what’s important. Considering the conditions, it was a really well played game.” 
Just before the half, the Panthers equalized when a booming shot caromed off a Notre Dame defender and found the back of the net on what was scored an own goal. Both teams missed a number of opportunities to score the go-ahead goal in the second half. The Irish outshot the Panthers 27 to 11 on the night, with their 27th and final shot coming on King’s game winner. Clark said he is pleased with the exciting game’s result, as well as where it leaves the Irish head­ing into the final regular sea­son contest. 
“It was a funny game, because I think we clearly dominated the game. It was a very windy and difficult night and I thought we put on a great performance tonight,” Clark said. “This is when you have to stick runs together. We’ve got ourselves in a great position. We’ve got a great RPI for the NCAA’s and we’ve got ourselves in great position for the Big East.” 
The Irish will wrap up the regular season Saturday against Georgetown. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles sneak past Adrian in fve sets 
By KATHERINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles’ season-long quest to establish themselves as competitors in the MIAA manifested itself in a close vic­tory over Adrian Wednesday. 
Saint Mary’s (5-19, 3-11 MIAA) defeated Adrian (9-17, 3-11) in a five-set battle 3-2 (16-25, 25-23, 20-25, 27-25, 15-12). 
“We just fought really hard, the whole team had this enthusiasm and energy that had been missing many times in the past,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. 
The Belles found themselves down early, but rallied to come back from a one-set deficit. Kuschel said her team got back to fundamentals in order to complete the comeback. 
“Our hitting just really came around tonight so well,” said Kuschel. “We also had phe­nomenal team defense and team effort.” 
Sophomore Allison Zandarski was a key contribu­tor on offense with a match-high 17 kills, and sophomore Stephanie Bodien and junior Lindsey Stuss contributed 16 and 12 kills, respectively. Freshman Hailee Leitz had 50 assists and 12 digs while sen­ior Meghann Rose added 21 digs. Five different players totaled double-digit digs for the match. 
This result was quite differ­ent from what happened the last time the teams met. On Sept. 25, the Belles fell to the Bulldogs 3-1. Kuschel said Saint Mary’s handled crucial moments much more effective­ly this time around. 
“Last time we were not able to get big points in tight situa­tions,” said Kuschel. “Keeping down our unforced errors and our clicking offensively had a lot to do with the difference between tonight and a month ago.” 
She added that the Belles hoped to carry this positive momentum into their last two regular season matches this weekend. 
“Every time we step out on the court, it’s our time to get better as a team,” Kuschel said. “Win or lose, we’re always just looking to do our best and that’s what we did tonight.” 
Saint Mary’s will take on opponent Trine at 7 p.m. Friday in its last home match of the season. 
Contact Katherine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
ence unbeaten streak into the match in addition to a 13-game overall unbeaten streak. 
After Sunday’s regular season finale, in which Notre Dame tied Georgetown, Waldrum said he believed his team was ready to shift its focus to the next phase of the schedule. 
“This phase of our season is now done and over with, and we did accomplish what we set out to do, which was win our division,” Waldrum said to UND.com. “Now we move on to the Big East tournament and look forward to being back home at Alumni Stadium on Sunday in front of our terrific Fighting Irish fans for the start of the postseason.” 


On their road to three straight College Cup Final Four appear­ances, the Irish have used the Big East tournament as a step-ping-stone to deep tournament runs. Notre Dame’s NCAA-record conference unbeaten streak includes the past two conference titles. 
The Irish narrowly missed a five-year streak as conference champions, but lost to West Virginia in a shootout in 2007 Big East championship game. Overall, Notre Dame has won 11 out of 15 conference tourna­ments since joining the Big East. 
The Big East tournament will likely impact Notre Dame’s seeding in the NCAA tourna­ment, as the Irish would like to earn a No. 1 seed in the tourna­ment. Notre Dame currently ranks fifth in the latest RPI standings. 
Notre Dame will likely earn a high seed and host early games in the NCAA tournament. If the Irish earn a top seed, however, they’ll host each game that they play in leading up to the Final Four in Cary, N.C. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
MLB 
Giants defeat Rangers in frst game of series 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Bumbling on the bases and fumbling on the field did in the Texas Rangers. 
Their manager didn’t help, either. 
That’s what a first World Series appearance will do to a team. 
In Wednesday night’s dismal 11-7 loss to the San Francisco Giants, Texas resembled the woeful Washington Senators of its expansion roots far more than the exciting team that won a surprise American League pennant. 
“We have to find ourselves the next game,” Bengie Molina said. 
Cliff Lee looked nothing like the ace who had gone 7-0 in eight postseason starts. Meantime, Texas became the first team in six years to make four errors in a World Series game. 
Ian Kinsler got tagged out when he took a turn past first base on a ball he thought rolled away but didn’t. 
Michael Young let Edgar Renteria’s leadoff grounder to third kick off his glove for an error that led to San Francisco tying the score in a two-run third inning. 
Shortstop Elvis Andrus mis­played Tim Lincecum’s grounder in the fifth, and Vladimir Guerrero — inserted into right field in the NL park rather than his usual desig­nated hitter slot — let two hits skip by for errors in a three-run eighth. 
“Usually, a team makes errors, you’re going to find a way to score off them,” Young said. “But we’ve been a great defensive team all season long, so this isn’t really some­thing we’re going to lose sleep over.” 
By the time Lee labored through 32 pitches in the third it was clear he wasn’t nearly the unhittable, domi­nant pitcher who went 3-0 in the AL playoffs against Tampa Bay and the Yankees. The one who allowed two runs in 24 innings. 
Maybe manager Ron Washington couldn’t believe his eyes, either. His bullpen was empty until the Giants were ahead 3-2 on consecu­tive doubles by Andres Torres and Freddy Sanchez off the fading Lee. Not until Lee went to a full count on Pat Burrell did Darren O’Day sprint down the right-field line to the bullpen. Burrell walked and Cody Ross and Aubrey Huff hit RBI singles that made it 5­2. 
Washington insisted he did-n’t have O’Day get up too late. He thought Lee would get through the trouble. 
“He was still in control,” he said. 


Thursday, October 28, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 



JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, October 28, 2010 page 20 
MEN’S SOCCER 

A minute to spare 
King nets winning goal 

in frantic fnal minute  
By CHRIS ALLEN  
Sports Writer  
Though Notre Dame domi­ 
nated possession for the first  
89 minutes of their Alumni  
Sta di u m clash ag ainst  
Pittsburgh Wednesday, a set  
piece goal for the Panthers  
and a freak deflection on an  
own goal had the teams even  
at 2-2 with a minute left in the  
game. With the Irish headed  
for a disappointing tie, junior  
midfielder Br endan King  
headed home a cross in the  
final minute from senior for­ 
ward Steven Per ry t o g ive  
Notre Dame a thrilling 3-2  
win.  
“We showed a lot of charac­ 
ter, because we were dominat­ 
ing the way we were dominat­ 
ing and then you give up two  
goals, one on their first corner  
and one on a deflection,” Irish  
coach Bobby Clark said. “They see CLARK/page 18  JULIE HERDER/The Observer Junior midfelder Brendan King runs the ball upfeld during Notre Dame’s 3-2 win over Pittsburgh Wednesday. King scored the game-winning goal in the fnal minute.  

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
ND coach reflects on team’s past 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
In 1989, Notre Dame had been playing Division I tennis for four years, had never been to the NCAA Tournament, and never earned a spot in the national rankings. That all changed when head coach Jay Louderback arrived. Since he was hired to lead the Irish pro­gram, Louderback has led Notre Dame to 16 NCAA Tournament appearances and 15 conference titles. A year ago, the Irish finished with their best performance ever with an appearance in the semifinals. This season the Irish want to compete for a national championship again and will attempt to surpass the achievements of last season’s team. 
Louderback says there are 
see TENNIS/page 17 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Senior Havens continues winning ways at Notre Dame 
after claiming state champi­ a b l e  e x p e r i e n c e  t h a t  h a s  Havens been a  constant on  p r o g r a m  i s  s t i l l  t o  c o m e ,  
By ANDREW OWENS  onship honors in both sin- helped him in the three sea- the  court  for the Irish and  despite all of the accolades  
Sports Writer  gles and doubles.  sons since.  has won several big matches  h e  h a s  e a r n e d  u p  t o  t h i s  
Havens didn’t miss  a  beat  Irish assistant coach Ryan  for the Irish  over  the past  point.  
A l l  I r i s h  s e n i o r  S t e p h e n  in his transition  to  college  Sachire praised Havens for  few seasons.  “ H i s  l e g a c y  i s  s t i l l  t o  
Havens knows how  to  do is  t e n n i s  a f t e r  a r r i v i n g  a t  the many roles he’s played  “ H e  h a s  g o t t e n  a  f e w  come,” he said. “He hasn’t  
win, as it’s all he’s ever done  Notre Dame. He stepped up  for the team.  m a t c h -c l i n c h i n g v i c t o r i e s ,  b e e n  a s  c o n s i s t e n t  a s  h e  
in his tennis career.  a s  a  f r e s h m a n  a n d  c o n - “This is Stephen’s fourth  including  one  against Texas  w a n t s  t o  b e .  H e  h a s  s o m e  
T h e  s i n g l e s  p l a y e r  h a s  tributed immediately during  year starting for us, and he  A&M,  a  top  ten  school,  two  unf ini she d b usin ess. H e is  
s e e n  s u c c e s s  a t  b o t h  t h e  h i s  f i r s t  s e a s o n  w i t h  t h e  has done it as both a singles  y e a r s  a g o , ”  S a c h i r e  s a i d .  determined to be a superstar  
h igh school a nd coll egi ate  Irish after earning  a  singles  and doubles player,” he said.  “ H e  i s n ’t  t h e  m o s t  v o c a l  a n d  g e t  a n  A l l -A m e r i c a n  
levels. He  was  named to the  s p o t e a r l y  i n  t h e  y e a r.  H e  “There has  not  been  a  dual  pla ye r, bu t he i s certa i nl y  banner on the wall.”  
All-Ohio  team  each year in  went 20-21 during that first  in which he has  not  played  respected.”  
high school, and  was  named  season  (9-5 in the open  sea- both,  a  feat that  no  one  in  S a c h i r e  a l s o  a d d e d  t h a t  Contact Andrew Owens at  
an  All-American  as  a  senior  son) and gained  some  valu­ his class has matched.”  Havens’ lasting mark  on  the  aowens2@nd.edu  

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish plan for postseason 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
After claiming the Big East National Division title, No. 4 Notre Dame is shifting its focus to the postseason, which the Irish have become intimately familiar with during Irish coach Randy Waldrum’s tenure. 
While Notre Dame’s ultimate goal is to win the program’s third NCAA title, the Irish will open up the postseason at home in the Big East tourna­ment on Sunday. With their strong play in the regular sea­son, Notre Dame earned a first round bye in the conference tournament and will play the winner of the game between Connecticut and Louisville. The Irish carry a 77-game confer-
see BIG EAST/page 18 


MEN’S SWIMMING 
Lex looks to finish strong in senior season 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
Senior diver Eric Lex could be on the way to his best sea­son ever with Notre Dame after two big victories against Michigan and Oakland. 
Lex led his opponents by over 15 points in both the one-meter and three-meter diving events at last week­end’s dual meet against Michigan and Oakland for a sweep. His one-meter dive earned him 336.60 points to top Michigan’s Kasey Allen’s 321, while his 324.40 points in the three meter dive easily put him ahead of Allen, who placed second once again with 307.85 points. 
Irish diving coach Caiming Xie credited Lex’s consistency for his two big wins. Xie said that Lex and his fellow divers aren’t even at their best per­formance yet, but that “prac­tice will make it perfect.” 
Lex attributes his success to his overall technique and to his diving attitude. 
“My greatest strength as a diver, I would have to say, is my technique,” Lex said. “Having a solid base to build upon makes learning more difficult dives much easier. I also believe that my competi­tive attitude during practice as well as in meets is another 
see LEX/page 17 





