the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


SMC student dies at 19 
Friends remember Seeberg for displaying commitment to service 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
First year Saint Mary’s stu­dent Elizabeth “Lizzy” Seeberg, described by loved ones as having a heart for service, died suddenly Friday afternoon. She was 19. 
Seeberg, 
originally from Northbrook, Ill., was a resident of McCandless Hall and an in tend ed nursing major at the College. 
Friends say Seeberg was committed to helping others and always had a smile on her face. 

Kalyn Fetta, a sophomore at Notre Dame who attended high school with Seeberg, said she had a “contagious joy.” 
Fetta recalled spending time at a pool with Seeberg one summer, when Seeberg decid­ed the girls were wasting their day. She suggested they cook dinner for about 40 at a soup kitchen nearby. 
“Right then, she insisted we get up, grocery shop and start cooking — and we followed through,” Fetta said. 
Fetta and Seeberg also attended a Habitat for Humanity service trip in Michigan together as well as a Kairos religious retreat. 
“I always saw Lizzy giving herself to others with a smile o 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame fans experienced football déjà vu on Saturday. 
For the second year in a row, the Michigan Wolverines scored a go-ahead touchdown in the final minute of play. With 27 seconds left on the game clock, Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson sealed the come-from-behind vic­tory with a two-yard touchdown run, sending Notre Dame fans home disappointed. 
Irish fans had strong hopes for victory earlier in the quarter after quarterback Dayne Crist connect­ed with Kyle Rudolph for a 95­yard touchdown pass with 3:41 left in the game that put Notre Dame ahead 24-21. 




Déjà Blue 
Sophomore Michael Schultz said the energy inside the stadi­um after the touchdown was elec­tric. 
“I almost fell off the railing from jumping up when Notre Dame scored,” he said. “It was wild.” 
Sophomore Emily Hefferon said she felt the touchdown gave Notre Dame a shot at victory, but once the Wolverines got the ball back things started to turn for the worse for the Irish. 
“When Rudolph scored our last touchdown, I felt pure euphoria,” she said. “But once Michigan started moving the ball I started to feel dread. It was like we couldn’t get over the hump of those final minutes.” 
Even though there was time left on the clock, Schultz said he knew the Michigan touchdown n her face,” Fetta said. “I will always remember all she taught me and the happiness she brought to so many peo­ple.” 
Fr. Chris Devron, president of Christ the King high school in Chicago, said Seeberg was integral in raising money for the Jesuit high school that sponsors students on Chicago’s west side who would otherwise not have access to a college preparatory education. 
Christ the King opened in August of 2008 and follows the Cristo Rey model, which makes it affordable for students from low-income backgrounds to matriculate from the small, Catholic high school. 
Devron said when Seeberg 
see SEEBERG/page 3 

Morrissey, ultimate team host frisbee event 
By CALIE MOHAMED 
News Writer 
The ultimate frisbee club team and Morrissey Hall teamed up to hold an all day frisbee event Sunday on South Quad to raise funds for the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
The ultimate team mem­bers took shifts from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. to keep a 12-hour game of ultimate frisbee ongoing. Regular frisbees were used throughout the length of the day, while a light up disc was used when it got dark in order to keep the game going. 
“We wanted to keep [the donations] in the community and make it local, so that everyone on campus could relate to the event,” senior Megan Franke, co-captain of the girls’ team, said. 
She said they like to give back to South Bend, particu­larly to the people with whom they have relation­ships. The team has a long­standing relationship with the Robinson Center, and many of the team members have tutored and worked there. 
In previous years, the ulti­mate team has had similar fundraisers for the Robinson Center, but they were located at Stepan Fields. The women’s team co-captain, senior Amy Bilek, said mov­ing the location of the event 
see FRISBEE/page 4 
had sealed Notre Dame’s fate. 
“They did not leave us with enough time to score. It was like, ‘Wow, this just happened two years in a row,’” he said. 
The Irish looked sharp on the first offensive series, which ended when Crist ran the ball into the end zone for a touchdown. However, Crist had to leave the game for the rest of the first half after experiencing blurry vision in his right eye. Schultz said Irish fans experienced unnecessary confusion when they realized Crist was not behind the center the next time Notre Dame had the ball. 
“We didn’t know why all of a sudden [freshman quarterback] Tommy Rees was in,” he said. 
see MICHIGAN/page 3 




Ridge reflects on American brand 
Ridge, whose many titles mission statement. 

By SCOTT ENGLERT 
have included the governor of “Titles get compliance,” he 
News Writer 
Pennsylvania and Secretary of said. “Leaders get commit-Homeland Security, now ments.” 
“We all knew what we were serves as president and CEO of In addition to leadership, doing the day and morning of Ridge Global, LLC. brand name also transcends Sept. 11,” Tom Ridge began. “Everyone in the organiza-the fields of business and 
Speaking in the Jordan tion has value,” he said. “All national security. Auditorium in Mendoza on the work has dignity.” “Notre Dame has a brand … weekend of the anniversary of Addressing leadership, Ridge America has a brand as well. the terrorist attacks of Sept. informed students on the It’s our value system,” Ridge 11, 2001, Ridge offered a importance of communication said. “We have to be consis­presentation that fittingly tied skills and the importance of tent with [our value system]. both business and national not only knowing, but also security. being able to articulate one’s see RIDGE/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor reflects on JFK speech page 3  Campus style spotter page 9  Men’s soccer wins two games page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, September 13, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W O IS YOUR BEST FANTASY FOOTBALL PICK? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Molly Sammon Sam Stryker Matthew Robison Michael Todisco Graphics Scene Sofia Iturbe Maija Gustin Photo Viewpoint Dan Jacobs Ren Brauweiler 

OFFBEAT 

Angry musician hits man with guitar 
MADISON, Wis. – Wisconsin police say a street musician apparently upset by criticism of his music bashed a man over the head with his guitar, slammed another person into a wall and wrestled with an officer before being arrested. 
Madison police spokesman Joel DeSpain tells The Capital Times that 31-year-old Brandin Hochstrasser, known as “Bongo Jesus,” was per­forming Thursday when a 54-year-old man knocked his music. DeSpain says the two argued and police were called when Hochstrasser began hitting his critic with his guitar. 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Workers paint the Irish football helmets with gold paint Friday before the Michigan game. The Irish lost to the Wolverines 28-24 Saturday. For more football recap, turn to page 16. 

DeSpain says Hochstrasser then charged the man, knocking him down. An officer used a stun gun to subdue and arrest Hochstrasser. 
Online court records show no formal charges had been filed by Sunday. 
Chesnut breaks burrito-eating record, downs 47 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. – Competitive eater Joey Chestnut is now king of the burrito. 
Chestnut, also known as “Jaws,” downed 47 burritos in 10 minutes at the New Mexico State Fair in Albuquerque on Saturday, beating the previous record of 33 1/2. 
Known for his hot-dog eating, Chestnut won the annual July Fourth hot dog eating contest at New York’s Coney Island for the fourth year in a row this summer. 

Chestnut, of San Jose, Calif., won $1,500 for the feat in New Mexico Saturday. The burritos in the Garcia’s World Burrito Eating Championship were stuffed with beef, beans and the state’s famous green chile. 
The event is sanctioned by the Major League Eating & International Federation of Competitive Eating, the world body that oversees all international professional eating contests. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
FTT Talks presents Katie O’Connell: “Navigating the TV Landscape — Jobs and the Business of Making Television” today at 6 p.m. in room 158 in the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free. 
Professor John O’Callaghan will lecture on the works of Walker Percy, the first lecture in the Catholic Culture Literature Series: “Strangers in a Strange Land: Four Catholic American Authors.” The event will be tomorrow in Debartolo 141, beginning at 8 
p.m. The event is free. 
Author Salvador Plascencia will read from 7:30 p.m. to 9 
p.m. 
Wednesday at the Hammes Bookstore. He is the author of The People of Paper. In 2010, Poets and Writers named Plascencia one of the Fifty of the Most Inspiring Authors in the World. The event is free. 

A lecture, “The Passion of Leadership,” will be given by Henry Givray, President and CEO of SmithBucklin Corporation. It will be from 7 

p.m. 
to 8 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. Question and answer will follow. The event is free and open to the public. 


Ricardo Pau-Llosa will give a lecture at the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday, followed by a 30 to 45 minute reception in the Ashbaugh Decorative Arts Gallery. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Matt Farrar  Joey Brooks  Chris Bell  Brian Viao  
sophom ore  sophom ore  junior  senior  
K nott  K nott  K nott  off-cam pus  

“Denard “Charlie W eis.” “Ihate “BrettFavre.” Robinson.” professional football.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Tuesday wednesday Thursday friday 






CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
76 56 7369 6264
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

54 54 4856 5252 
Monday, September 13, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Lecture honors JFK speech 
By LAURA MITTELSTAEDT 
News Writer 
President John F, Kennedy took negative tones and harsh political stances to dis­tance himself from the Catholic Church, said Michael 
W. McConnell, Professor of Law at Stanford University and former federal judge, Friday, at a lecture titled “Remind Me: Why Did Anyone Care if JFK was a Catholic?” 
The lecture was held in the 
Hesburgh Center audito­rium Friday to kick off Notre Dame’s James 
P. Riley series on religion and public life. 
The lecture commemorat­ed the 50th anniversary of John F. Kennedy’s his­torical Houston Speech, which McConnell called one of the most effec­tive speeches ever made by a against bigotry … Kennedy fell headlong into the most bitter misconceptions of his political opponents, ” McConnell said. 
The speech, given on Sept. 12, 1960, addressed the issue of separation of church and state, which McConnell called the most delicate problem for Kennedy to address. 
At the time. American citi­zens feared a Catholic presi­dent would be incapable of making public policy deci­sions without being influ ­
enced by 

“[Though]JFK w on a greatvictory for inclusion and against bigotry,K ennedy fell headlong into the m ostbitter m isconceptions ofhis politicalopponents,” 
Michael W. McConnell Professor of Law Stanford University 
the Church. Kennedy hoped to quell the anti -Catholic sentiment. 
“I do not speak for my church on pub­lic matters; and the church does not speak for me, ” Kennedy said in his famous speech. 
Whatever issue may come before me as President…I will make my deci­sion… without regard to out ­side religious 

candidate. pressure or dictates.” 
pausing occasionally to ana­lyze his language. McConnell explained several reserva­tions he held about Kennedy’s speech. 
“[The speech is] entirely and surprisingly negative and defensive,” McConnell said. 
With help from his Houston speech, Kennedy won 83 per­cent of the Catholic vote and 34 percent of the white Protestant vote in the 1960 election. 
“In his speech, Kennedy states that he is merely the Democratic party’s candidate for president who happens also to be a Catholic,” McConnell said. 
According to McConnell, religion is too deep and important to be happen ­stance, and people should have been more concerned about what JFK was disavow­ing. 
“By stating, ‘I believe in an America where the separa­tion of church and state is absolute,’ Kennedy adopted the vocabulary of his oppo­nents,” he said. “Everyone is for separation of church and state, but when you add the term ‘absolute separation,’ it adds a degree of hostility.” 
The hour-long lecture was followed by a question-and­answer session, where McConnell addressed modern politics and the current role of religion in public policy. 
Contact Laura Mittelstaedt at lmittels@nd.edu 



Michigan 
continued from page 1 
“The stadium needs to announce what is going on because no one had any idea why Crist was out.” 
Junior John Rozema was ini­tially scared not only for the result of the game, but for the well-being of Crist. 
“I was worried about Crist. I thought he was seriously injured,” he said. “He had his helmet off with the baseball cap on, and he just seemed very far away from the action.” 
Rozema also said it might not have necessarily been a good idea to bring back Crist in the second half. 
“I don’t know much about injuries, but it seemed like Notre Dame was taking a lot of risks with their players,” he said. “There was a run by Crist that just looked dangerous. If he had been seriously injured, that could have ended our season.” 
Michigan led coming out of halftime 21-7, and Hefferon said initially she felt things could only get worse for the Irish. 
“Going into halftime, Michigan had all the momentum,” she said. “I didn’t think it was going to be close. I thought for sure, we were going to lose.” 
Hefferon said part of the rea­son people seemed to be dread­ing the outcome of the game after the first half was the lack of tenacity by Notre Dame after Crist left. 
“Michigan was on the ball the whole way,” she said. “I just did-n’t see as much of an effort from Notre Dame in the first half.” 
However, Notre Dame scored 10 points on a touchdown and a field goal in the third quarter. After the downpours prior to the game and the overcast skies through the first half, the skies 



Seeberg 
continued from page 1 
heard Christ the King would open in Chicago, she organized several fundraising and service projects to benefit the school, working with her parish youth group to “adopt” Christ the King. 
“Lizzy had a real sense that God had blessed her, and she wanted to give back to those who were not fortunate to have equal access to a solid educa­tion,” Devron said. “For her youthful age, she had a mature awareness about injustice, and wanted to make the world a better place.” 
Seeberg visited Christ the King several times, and made and sold picture frames to raise money. 
“Our students were blessed to benefit from her quiet but strong efforts on their behalf, and I’m grateful to have had the opportunity to get to know such a special young woman,” Devron said. 
Caitie Young, a junior at Notre Dame who also attended high school with Seeberg, said the 19-year-old had a great sense of humor. 
“I have countless memories of us driving around, wasting gas and singing Taylor Swift at the top of our lungs together,” Young said. “I miss her terri­bly.” 
begin to clear. Junior Katie Carter said the play of the Fighting Irish in the second half was more upbeat, which coin­cided with the change in weath­er. 
“Michigan had the momen­tum for a while. But when the sun came out and hit the stadi­um, and we started to score, it just felt like we were meant to win,” she said. 
The final run by Robinson capped off an amazing day for the Michigan quarterback, who set a school record for total offense with 502 yards. Despite Robinson’s play, Hefferon felt the Notre Dame defense played well. 
“Denard Robinson was mov­ing the ball fast, but I was impressed with our defense, especially compared to last year,” she said “There were a lot of close defensive plays that we came out on top of.” 
Carter, however, said while Robinson seemed to be putting his success on the field ahead of his teams. 
“Denard Robinson is talented, but he seemed like a ball hog. He was selfish, like he thought he should be doing everything,” she said. “Notre Dame played more like a team.” 
Notre Dame had one final series to score, but on the last play Crist tossed the ball long into the stands. 
Rozema said while the final play left a bitter aftertaste, he is looking forward to the next Notre Dame game against Michigan State. 
“Obviously that last throw that ended the game from Crist that landed in the audience, that was soul-crushing,” he said. “We will come back strong next week against Michigan State.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
McConnell said it both neu­tralized anti-Catholics and rallied American Catholics to vote for Kennedy in the 1960 presidential election. 
“[Though] JFK won a great victory for inclusion and 
After a brief history of dis­crimination against American Catholics, and what McConnell called “the oldest prejudice in America,” he led the audience through the footage of Kennedy’s speech, 
When Young started as a freshman at Notre Dame, Seeberg was still a senior in high school and would mail Young the police blotter from their hometown paper. 
“It would always make me laugh,” Young said. 
The Saint Mary’s community will commemorate Seeberg’s life with a memorial service at 5 p.m. today in Regina Hall Chapel. 
“On behalf of everyone at Saint Mary’s College, I extend my deepest condolences to the family and friends of our stu­dent,” College president Carol Ann Mooney said. “Our prayers are with them during this diffi­cult time.” 
Seeberg’s visitation is Thursday at N.H. Scott & Hanekamp Funeral Home, located at 1240 Waukegan Road in Glenview, Ill. from 4 to 9 p.m. The Funeral Mass is at 10 a.m. Friday at St. Norbert Church, located at 1809 Walters Ave. in Northbrook, Ill. 
In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Christ the King Jesuit College Prep at www.ctkjesuit.org or Erika’s Lighthouse at www.erikaslight­house.org 
Ashley Charnley contributed to this report. 


Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 13, 2010 



SMCofferscommunitycourse 

Frisbee 
continued from page 1 
this year helped to get more donations and more people involved in the event. She said the event was successful and a lot of fun for team members and participants alike. 
Bystanders of all ages were invited by the ultimate team members to join in on the game, watch or just donate to the Robinson Center. Participants in the game were allowed to play as much as they wanted throughout the 12 hours and were allowed to leave and return to play as long as they wore their wristband. 
The day was mainly a way for the ultimate team mem­bers to have fun with each other and give back to the community, Bilek said. The score was not kept during the 12-hour long game because there were so many participants and team changes. The goal was to get students and non-students alike to join in on the fun and donate to a good cause. 
Fun variations of ultimate frisbee were tested out to keep the game interesting and participants on their toes, Bilek said. The team’s goal was to get a dorm rector or any students’ parents involved in the game at some point during the day. 
The ultimate frisbee club team is made up of about 70 members who are from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. The teams are separated by gen­der and within each gender there is an “A” team and a “B” team. 
The team practices twice a week and competes in local contests and tournaments in places like Las Vegas, Baton Rouge and Tallahassee, Fla. Their first tournament takes place on Oct. 2 in South Bend where roughly 40 other col­legiate ultimate frisbee teams will compete. 
Contact Calie Mohamed at cmohamed@nd.edu 
By MEGHAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students will now have the opportunity to earn class credit while work­ing with the local community. 
Saint Mary’s justice educa­tion program and Campus Ministry have joined together to offer a one-credit course, titled “The Church in the City,” which presents a first­hand experience within the South Bend community for Saint Mary’s students. This is the first time the course has been offered. 
Jan Pilarski, director of the justice education program, said she believes it is impor­tant for students to learn more about the communities of South Bend. 
“Building bridges with the local community is an impor­tant piece of the course,” Pilarski said. “Although we are just a couple miles form downtown, it feels more dis­tant than that.” 
The 15 students who are accepted into the course will be given the opportunity to spend the weekend of Nov. 5 in the heart of the South Bend Latino community as guests of La Casa de Amistad and St. Adalbert’s parish. 
“[La Casa de Amistad works] to empower the Latino/ Hispanic community within Michiana by providing educa­tional, cultural and advocacy services in a welcoming, bilin­gual environment,” according to the organization’s mission statement on its website. 
St. Adalbert’s Parish is a Roman Catholic community founded by Polish-Americans. Now the church population is a mixture of those who wor­ship in English, Polish and Spanish. 
The actual goal of the week­end is not to do physical work in the community, and Pilarski said it is not a mission trip. The goal is to offer the people in the neighborhood the chance to share their stories with the students. 
“That may sound minimal, but it is life-changing,” Pilarski said. “I would really emphasize that it is one of the best services we can offer people who don’t have their story heard by the majority of the population. This course presents an opportunity to share in their struggles and learn the experience of pover­ty how it is to be an immi­grant, why they came to dif­fuse some of the myths of immigration and to see them as they are.” 
Pilarski held two informa­tional meetings this week on the course. She introduced the foundation on which the course was designed and gave the students an idea of what their weekend in the South Bend community might entail. 
The structure of the course is a combination of four infor­mational and reflection ses­sions, a weekend spent in the community of focus and a four to five page reflection paper. 
Friday, Nov. 5, students will travel downtown in a group where they will arrive on site, get their bearings and meet individuals who are hosting them for the weekend. This night will be one to socialize and perhaps share in music or dance, Pilarski said during one of the information meet­ings. 
There will be an opportunity on Saturday to take a tour of the community in order to get a sense of the housing and organizations. The rest of the day will be spent encounter-
i n g  ke y  l e a d e r s  f r om  t h e  
Latino community who  are  
immigrants themselves.  

La Casa de Amistad has a group called La Collectiva, made up of about two dozen middle and high school stu­dents who are engaged in leadership development. Saint Mary’s students would have the opportunity to take part in a leadership training session with them on Saturday, Pilarski said. 
Saint Mary’s students will also have the chance to meet with another organization heavily involved in the com­munity, Transforming Action Through Power. This organi­zation is made up of 15 con­gregations in South Bend and focuses on leadership training as well as working on key issues that greatly affect the community — immigration, education within South Bend public schools and poverty, Pilarski said. 
The course is a one-credit, pass/fail course. For more information and to pick up applications, students can see Jan Pilarski or Judy Fean. Applications are due by Wednesday. 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 



Ridge 
continued from page 1 
The rest of the world is watch­ing.” 
Ridge explained that America does not always abide by its value system. This is perhaps most evident in the recent controversy over Guantanamo Bay. While recog­nizing the complexities of the situation, Ridge said he believes the prison’s occupants are entitled to due process. 
Yet, despite America’s short­comings, Ridge maintains a positive and optimistic view of the nation he loves. 
“I can say to you in good faith that we have been true to our values,” Ridge said. “Americans live in freedom. We don’t live in fear … People all over the world still love the idea of America.” 
In part, the idea of America involves risks, he said. In a way similar to that of a busi­ness, America must manage its risks. 
Ridge invoked images of the first pioneers, the lunar land­ings and the millions of American servicemen and women as examples of American risk-takers. 
“America has always had risk management — we’re a country of risk-takers,” he said. “We manage our risks.” 
When answering audience questions, Ridge expanded upon previous answers and addressed other new topics, including the relationship between the economy and national security, the chal­lenge of cooperation between national agencies and the need for a more effective use of America’s soft power. 
“[My proudest accomplish­ment is that] I’ve been given that many opportunities and my service was valued,” he said. 
Ridge said homeland securi­ty has an objective to secure and preserve freedom — including religious expression. 
“Complacency [is the single greatest danger to national security] — the notion that as time elapse we forgot that we are at war with a belief system and leaders of a belief system who patient and persistent.” 

Contact Scott Englert at senglert@nd.edu 



Monday, September 13, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 5 

The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 6 Monday, September 13, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Too open? 
Besides “ethics, ethics, ethics,” there is probably nothing discussed within the Mendoza College of Business (MCOB) than the fact that “we are No. 1.” Naturally, people outside of the university who see BusinessWeek’s John Cameron ranking probably imagine that the New s college is especially Production rigorous and exclu-Editor sive and that busi­ness students are the cream of the crop at the already prestigious University of Notre Dame. 
However, the sentiment among stu­dents is quite the opposite. It is often assumed that business students either could not handle pre-med or engineer­ing, or that education is only secondary for them, whether it falls after partying, a varsity sport or sleeping. 
I believe this thinking is perpetuated, in part, by the fact that Mendoza places no floor for limiting which students can enter the college. If you ask students who have attended the college’s various mandatory events since last spring, they will probably agree that the massive crowds herded into the packed auditori­ums left them feeling like “just another business student.” 
Students again felt the side effects of overcrowding during the debacle that was DART last spring. Most, if not all ris­ing-sophomore business classes immedi­ately shut out students after filling up and had to be manually overenrolled by Mendoza advisors. Unless the University plans on expanding MCOB in both quan­tity of classes and professors, I think it is time to consider limiting the number of available seats in the college. 
While I understand and appreciate the MCOB’s commitment to allowing students to pursue whichever academic path they feel drawn to, I still think it is reasonable to set cutoffs. I am not suggesting they simplify the decision with standardized testing or solely consider GPA, nor do I think an elaborate application process is necessary. I believe anyone who put in a reasonable level of effort in FYS, which could be fairly judged by a combination of course rigor and GPA, should certainly be allowed and encouraged to study business at Notre Dame. 
Outside of crammed classrooms and inflexible schedules, by allowing over­crowding in the college, MCOB is sending a message to students that whether they put in 100 percent effort throughout freshman year or resell their textbooks in the original packaging, they will still squeeze anyone and everyone into the No. 1 undergraduate business program in the country. 
Of course there will be exceptions: obviously freshman engineering or premed courses are especially difficult for most students, and those changing to business should not be penalized for pur­suing a challenge. I do not think a GPA defines students nor do I think the col­lege should encourage students to take an easy course load in FYS to secure a high GPA. I simply believe that Mendoza should push students to strive toward the level of effort and to get the results con­sistent with being a part of the nationally top-ranked business program. 
I do not support making cuts as anoth­er way for students to feel elite or impressive; rather, it is becoming a prac­tical necessity. A No. 1 ranking is sure to draw even more students to the college, but at some point the open-door policy of the Mendoza College of Business is going to begin taking a toll on the quality of education and graduates that it pro­duces. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

Navigating the dining hall 
In my quest to inform the Notre Dame community/bubble about their own senseless behavior, I have arrived at a topic that is of epic proportions. While the things that freshmen do to embarrass themselves (see 
Kevin Kimberly 
last column) do plague our 

Bursting the 
campus, the 
Bubble

inability of most South Dining Hall goers to actually navigate the area effectively is a problem of epic proportions. So I write to you this time to enlighten you about the atrocities you have probably both experienced and have knowingly or unknowingly committed. Note that because North Dining Hall does not offer sliced apples, of which I can then put cinna­mon sugar on top, I will not refer to it as a real dining hall. 
The following list consists of the crimes most often committed, arguably more so than those nights when two of the best foods are served simultaneously (i.e. peppered flank steak and chicken poppers). Those guilty of committing these crimes against humanity are not specific to a certain gender, year, college, major, or dorm, though Keough Hall inhabitants have been known to suffer significant­ly in areas where common sense is required. As much as every student at Notre Dame loves to complain about South, we know we have it good; in fact, it is ranked high in several lists of the best dining halls on college cam­puses. Therefore, we should strive to make it better in all aspects. 
Being Picky: It always amazes me to stand in line behind someone who takes more than 30 seconds to put some food on their plate. And why is that you might ask? Because they search through the whole container to find the ‘one’ that is for them. I hate to inform you that the chicken patty you just spent two minutes trying to find is probably just as good as the one that 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
was at the front of the others. I have literally stood behind someone who picked sliced apple by sliced apple until they were done, and it was one of the most obnoxious things I have ever seen. Just get your food and go. 
Line Cutters: You would think by col­lege, everyone would have learned that lines are there for a reason. No, I do not care that what you want in the pasta line is the last thing; stand in line like everyone else and get what you want. Nothing more needs to be said here; just remember what you learned in kindergarten. 
Socializing: This is by far one of the biggest issues. The serving area is not the time for you to be holding up lines and causing collisions to scream to your friend about that awesome dorm party you went to last night, much of which you probably do not accurately remember anyways. Save it for when you sit down. 
Random Stopping/Lack of a Plan: The one thing I think would solve almost every problem mentioned is if everyone developed their own game-plan for attacking the dining hall. Establish your route and be sure you cover all your bases. This will alleviate random stopping, which tends to cause six-tray pileups. Here’s a sug­gested route, one I have perfected: Enter on the west side (go right to slide); grab your tray and utensils and head past the Chinese food; continue walking straight checking the fruits and vegetables; proceed onto the desserts, hit left to pass the Pan-American section; continue walking past the desserts and bread area; complete the circle by going left to pass the Stir-Fry section; check out what’s for dinner in the homestyle and meat sections; walk past the grill; stop at the sandwich aisle; see if any of the pizzas look fresh; run through the pasta line; get your drink on the eating side that is closed; have a seat. 
‘Supposable’ Stigma of Eating Alone: There is this idea that one is a ‘loser’ or has no friends if they ever eat alone, but this is far from the truth. There are many reasons people eat alone — weird class breaks, everyone went already, etc. Or maybe it’s that they do not want to eat with you! I eat alone from time to time with just me and the paper, and I love watching people I know walk by and wave because I know they are simply jeal­ous that they are not able to eat with me instead of the people they have eaten with approximately every day of the week for every meal. 
Same-Siding: Now, if we would truly like to talk about stigmas, same-siders are up for grabs. As lanyard wearing is a fashion faux pas, so too is sitting on the same side of the table as your one dining partner. It is a complete failure to do this, not just from a social norm point of view but from a techni­cal point of view. How in the world does one carry a conversation while eating with the person to their left or right and no one across from them? Same-siding it only calls for inappro­priate behavior that needs to be kept to the dorm rooms, ladies and gentle­men. 
I hope this has served you well. Unfortunately, not all 6,000-plus stu­dents who will eventually go through the hallowed South Dining Hall will read this. As for my practical advice: steer clear of the 15 minute gaps after classes for lunch and the 5:45-6:30pm slot for dinner, hold onto your drinks and perfect what I like to call the glare, a technique that is not mean or nice but let’s another know they are contributing to a serious problem. See you on the battlefield! 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for President in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A little sincerity is a dangerousthing, and a great deal of it isabsolutely fatal.” 
Oscar Wilde Irish novelist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“‘Taint’t worthwhile to wear a dayall out before it comes.” 
Sarah Orne Jewett 
U.S. author 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Monday, September 13, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Wearing Kelly green 
Great letter to the editor by David Zimmer (“Game weekend support,” Sept. 8) Only two additional suggestions: 
1. 
We should all wear kelly green to EVERY game, not just to the Michigan game; and 

2. 
We need to be able to get the word out to the alumni and other fans (i.e., not just the students, who will be wearing their kelly green shirts to the game anyway) who will be in attendance at the game. My suggestion: Put up a lot of signs around campus regarding the “wear kelly green to the game” cry, similar to the type of signs the men’s and women’s soccer teams do when they place signs around campus encouraging football fans to come to their home games on football weekends. 


One other suggestion, while I am at it: at the Michigan State game next weekend, let’s not make the same mistake we made last year, when we had no members of the band in attendance at the Purdue game, located just an hour or so down the road. Even if the entire band will not be making the trip to Michigan State (i.e., due to budget issues), let’s at least have any member of the band who wants to volunteer to pay their own way up to East Lansing, make the trip, to help encourage our team onward to victory against the Spartans. I implore the band management and administration to please allow this to happen. 
Jim Blase 
alumnus law school class of 1981 Sep. 9 

UWIRE 


Modern-day slavery 
Our history books told us that happy to loan the money out, to slavery ended in the United the tune of more than $110 bil-States after the Civil War. But lion a year, because they will get despite over half a million far more in return. Americans losing their lives in a So as soon as graduation day 
war we have comes, we have bill collectors 
Jacob Fuller been told was badgering us for the money we 
fought to end owe, which will be thousands 
The Daily slavery, tens more than we borrowed by the 
of millions of time we can pay them off. 
Mississippian 

us live in slav-After school, most graduates 
ery today. get the first job we can working 
How many people do you know for a wealthier man or major who are currently in debt? How corporation to pay the bills. In many of them could not pay that today’s job climate, few actually debt if they sold everything they find a career they enjoy. own? How many of them spend at If we want to own a home or least 40 hours a week at a job, or business, which millions never two, that they do not enjoy get the chance to do, we have to because they have to pay the take out more loans that will bills or they risk jail, lawsuit, take 10, 20, 30, or even more, homelessness, and even more years to pay off. So we cannot debt? afford to leave the job we do not 
This is what I call modern-day enjoy, because we are in too financial slavery. much debt. 
In America, this form of slavery No matter where we move in became the norm after owning our country, we cannot escape another person directly became the debtors, so we are left to illegal. After the Civil War, freed work for them as the precious slaves and poor white farmers hours, days, weeks, years and made up the majority of our pop-decades of our lives tick away. ulation, especially in the South. As the housing collapse showed 
These men and women were no us, millions of Americans are longer considered property to never able to pay off those mort­another man, but they were no gages. more free than the men and And instead of helping those women Lincoln emancipated in middle -to -lower class citizens his famous proclamation. They pay off their debt, our govern-did not own land, had no money ment came to the aid of the bil­saved and did not know how to lionaire banks with trillions of do anything but farm. dollars in taxpayers’ money. 
The wealthy one percent To defeat this slavery, we must weren ’t willing to share their first end the ignorance to it by land or profits, so they came up opening our eyes and educating with a new form of slavery: ourselves. sharecropping, keeping the farm-Slavery has never slowed down ers in perpetual debt. And little in this country. It has continu­has changed. ously grown and is at an all-time 
Today, all Americans have the high. opportunity to get an education If you don’t believe it, you are and even move across the coun-exactly where the debtors want try. But don ’t be fooled into you: hopelessly enslaved. thinking this makes us free. 
Of those who do get the chance This column first appeared in the at a higher education, 86.3 per-Sept. 9 edition of The Daily cent require loans to get that Mississippian, the daily publication education. The average four-year serving the University of Mississippi. graduate borrows more than The views expressed in this column $23,000 by graduation day. are those of the author and not 
The banks and government are necessarily those of The Observer. 

Opportunities available 
Dear Editor, more experience as “the competition.” 
As the internship coordinator for Plus, the television and film industries the Department of Film, Television operate and hire in a much different and Theatre, I would like to respond way than traditional businesses do. to Michael Burke’s comments regard-Many are small or under tight budg­ing the Notre Dame Career Center in ets, so coming to a career fair is not Wednesday ’s Observer (“ Thanks an option for them. Jobs aren’t avail-Career Center,” Sept. 8) able in six months or a year — organ-
Over the past several years, the izations hire when and if they have an staff at the Career Center, including immediate need. And this is such a director Lee Svete, associate director competitive industry, companies or Rose Kopec, program director production houses don ’t have to LoriAnn Edinborough and others, “recruit” or solicit resumes to find have gone above and beyond in qualified people to do the job. reaching out to companies and organ-Jen Sharron, a 2001 FTT grad who izations that provide internships and works as a field producer for Jimmy ultimately jobs for students who Kimmel Live, recently returned to major in film, television and theatre campus for a visit and spoke to my and other areas of the liberal arts. In class. When Jen was at Notre Dame, addition, the Career Center supports she spent two semesters working as and administers a variety of grants, an intern at Golden Dome Media (a stipends and initiatives which help former video production company at fund summer internship opportunities WNDU-TV), did another unpaid stint for students who could otherwise not in the sports department at WNDU-TV afford them. I work very closely week and had a minimum wage summer job in and week out with the staff at the at a small production company in Los Career Center to exchange and post Angeles — all while earning All ­information about internship opportu-America honors as a key member of nities for FTT majors both here in the the Irish women’s softball team. If Michiana area and all over the world. anyone didn’t have the time to do an The opportunities are there, but many internship, it was Jen. Yet, she under-students fail to take advantage of stood how important it was for her to those or to actually make an appoint-have experience on her resume, and ment with someone at the Career she sought out every opportunity that Center (or with me) to help them she could. She also told my class how through the process. All of us are important each and every one of those here to help, but we can’t do our jobs experiences has been to her career. if no one comes to see us. It’s amazing to me that there are sev-
I have worked and been associated eral wonderful internship opportuni­with the television industry since ties for students interested in the tel­1984. The one thing that hasn ’t evision business right here in our changed — and perhaps the only area that go unfulfilled semester after thing that hasn’t changed in television semester. 
— is that the people who succeed and So, FTT and liberal arts majors, find jobs in the industry are those take note. There are lots of people at who have the most experience and Notre Dame (especially those in the are willing to work their way up the Career Center) who will help you in ladder. A resume littered with a vari-your search for a job or internship in ety of internship experiences is still your particular field. All you have to the only way one can break through do is ask and listen. the door. Waiting until the second semester of your senior year to get an Karen Heisler internship is often too late to impress faculty someone in a position to hire — there Adjunct Instructor/Internship Coordinator are many other students with a lot Sep. 9 

Make ND stadium intimidating 
As Rocket Ismael said at last year’s vastly overplayed. At least play some-USC pep rally, THIS IS NOT A GAME. thing that we can sing to while on As students, we do not watch Notre defense. Livin’ on a Prayer, I Believe Dame football games dispassionately. in a Thing Called Love and Africa We are there not only to observe foot-would be loud and fun songs to sing to ball but to affect the outcome of the in these situations. game. It is this mindset that differenti-The second thing that we can do to ates diehard fans from mere specta-make Notre Dame Stadium a more tors. Unfortunately, the typical Notre intimidating place to play is to bring Dame fan is known as observant and vuvuzelas. Imagine the opposing quar­quiet. This makes it vitally important terback attempting to call out a play for us students to get loud if we want over thousands of 120 decibel noise to give our team the home field advan-machines. Sure the noise would dam­tage that they deserve. I think that age our hearing, but isn’t that a price there are two important ways in which that we are willing to pay as loyal sons we can improve our performance. and daughters of Notre Dame? In fact 
The first thing that we can do is to I believe that Notre Dame should be get rid of the “Celtic Chant” while on handing out vuvuzelas to every Notre defense. This mindless moving up and Dame fan who enters the stadium. If down of fists may be cute and cool to so, Notre Dame would instantly look at from a distance but does not become the loudest and most intimi­make Notre Dame Stadium an intimi-dating place to play in the nation. dating place to play. This cheer, where Don’t flinch. Go and get it. This is no one but the band makes noise, is not a game! fine when the Irish are on offense. But when the opposing quarterback is in Matthew Keenan the huddle trying to communicate a sophomore play, we cannot allow silence! This Dillon Hall cheer also has the propensity to be Sep. 9 
The Observer 



Scene
page 8 Monday, September 13, 2010 






IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, September 13, 2010 observer Notre Dame 24, Michigan 28 
Loose shoelaces 
Denard Robinson’s 502 yards and late touchdown upend Irish 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Irish coach Brian Kelly made his thoughts on Saturday’s 28­24 loss to Michigan very clear with his first words after the game. 
“This is certainly a disap­pointment,” he said. “It was a hard-fought game.” 
Sophomore Wolverines quar­terback Denard Robinson was virtually unstoppable in the wet conditions, rushing for 258 yards and two touchdowns, including the game-winning score with 27 seconds remain­ing, while passing for 244 yards and another touchdown. The all-purpose athlete even pinned the Irish deep in their own territory with a 30-yard punt in the third quarter. All told, Robinson accounted for 502 of the Wolverines’ total of 535 offensive yards and methodically led Michigan down the field in the last five minutes of the game to hand Notre Dame its first loss of the season. 
“I’m speechless right now,” Robinson said afterward. “That was amazing.” 
The Irish started the game in convincing fashion, opening the game with a 13-play, 71-yard drive capped by a one-yard touchdown run from junior quarterback Dayne Crist. On the drive, Crist tallied 29 rush­ing yards and 30 passing yards. 
When Notre Dame next took the field, freshman Tommy Rees lined up at quarterback while Crist was on the sideline, being attended to by trainers. The starting quarterback, whom Brian Kelly had deemed so important to his team’s suc­cess, had been injured on an earlier play in the scoring drive. 
“When we were in the huddle to go back out for that next series, I could tell that he was not focused,” Kelly said. “We thought it was best until he really got his bearings back. ... We weren’t going to play him under those circumstances.” 
Rees’ first pass in a Notre Dame uniform landed in Michigan linebacker Jonas Mouton’s hands. It took Robinson only one play to capi­talize on the miscue, as he threw a 31-yard strike to receiver Roy Roundtree to tie the game and silence the home crowd. 
With less than four minutes to go in the half, Robinson broke loose for an 87-yard touchdown run. 


Facing second-and-10 on his own 13-yard line, Robinson was able to find some open space on the right side and break loose for an 87-yard touchdown run in front of the Wolverine sideline. 
Notre Dame responded with a drive marked by a 37-yard pass from Montana to sopho­more receiver Theo Riddick that placed the Irish on the Michigan 3-yard line with three seconds remaining in the half. 
“I thought we were, two scores down, I thought that was an opportunity,” Kelly said. “We had the right look, we just read it wrong.” 
Montana’s pass into the end zone as time expired never had a chance, as it soared over everyone’s heads out of bounds. 
“We challenged our football team at halftime to make sure that everybody knew the kind of football that we were going to play,” Kelly said. “That was pretty clear.” 
When the teams took the field for the second half, it was clear that the Irish had found a new mentality. Buoyed by Crist’s imminent return, the defense bottled up Robinson and force a three-and-out. On his second play of the half, Crist found true freshman receiver TJ Jones for a 53-yard touchdown pass. 
“We were constantly doing things to adapt to what they were doing,” Crist said. “That was just a great call for that situation.” 
For the rest of the second half the Irish offense sputtered, unable to sustain any long drives and only mustering a David Ruffer field goal in the third quarter to pull the score to 21-17. 
Michigan let Notre Dame stay in the game by missing two field goals that rendered much of Robinson’s output moot. 
Late in the fourth quarter, Notre Dame faced first-and-14 on its own 5-yard-line when Crist was able to connect with junior tight end Kyle Rudolph for a 95-yard touchdown pass that sent the crowd into a fren­zy. 
“Kyle did a great job getting open,” Crist said. “The read took me there late in the down and he did a great job making the play.” 
But with 3:41 on the clock, the Irish had left Robinson too much time. 
“I was ready for that drive,” Robinson said. “We let them stick around too long, and it was time for us to put the game away.” 
Robinson did just that, methodically picking apart the Notre Dame defense on the ground and through the air, finally scoring on a two-yard touchdown run to cap off a 72­yard drive that ate up 3:14. Though the Irish were able to take one last shot into the end zone from 27 yards out on the last play, Crist’s pass sailed harmlessly out of the back of the end zone and Michigan escaped with a narrow victory. 
After the game, the Irish were rife with praise for Robinson. 
“I’m not going to compare him to anybody else,” senior running back Armando Allen said. “He deserves his own cat­egory.” 
Crist summarized the feelings of many on the Irish sideline and of many sporting kelly green in the stands. 
“Obviously, I’m incredibly dis­appointed,” he said. “I’m proud of the way the guys battled back, but at the end of the day, we’re never happy with a loss.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Denard Robinson 502 Denard Robinson’s two-yard touch­
“I have to do a better job to put those

Michigan quarterback down run with 0:27 left in the game 
guys in there. ... I just have to do a The Notre Dame defense had no better job getting them ready.” Robinson ran for 258 yards and two answer for Robinson as he tallied Robinson capped the clinching 72­touchdowns and threw for another 502 yards, with the final two com-yard drive with a dive into the Brian Kelly244 yards with a touchdown ing on the winning touchdown end zone Irish coach on ND’s back-up quarterbacks 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 13, 2010 


report card 
C+ 
quarterbacks: Dayne Crist played well, when he played, but barely completed 
50 percent of his passes. Tommy Rees and Nate Montana disappointed when they stepped in for Crist in the first half. 
B 
C+ 
B+ 


A B­
B+ B 

running backs: Armando Allen averaged 
5.9 yards per carry on his 15 attempts, but since the Irish went down early, they abandoned Allen, Cierre Wood and the running game. 
receivers: Drops plagued the Irish through­out the game. If it were not for TJ Jones’ 53-yard touchdown and Kyle Rudolph’s 95-yard score, the receiving corps would have had nearly no impact Saturday. 
offensive line: If anything, the offensive line gave the Irish quarterbacks too much to make decisions. When Notre Dame ran, there were holes available, and the line only allowed one sack. 
defensive line: Robinson may have run wild, but the Irish defensive line brought pressure throughout the game. Kelly said Kapron Lewis-Moore may have even played his best game. 
linebackers: Robinson’s success was partly due to the linebackers’ failures, but Manti Te’o and Carlo Calabrese combined for 23 tackles, and limited any other threats from the Wolverines. 
defensive backs: The Irish secondary lost track of receivers time and time again, including Michigan’s opening score when Zeke Motta — replacing injured Jamoris Slaughter — was far out of position. 
special teams: David Ruffer remained per­
fect on field goals, knocking in a 24­
yarder, and sent his kickoffs deep as 
usual, but the Irish allowed 101 return 
yards on only four kick returns. 
coaching: The back-up quarterbacks’ failures can be traced to Brian Kelly, but the Irish game plan was solid. Without a Crist injury, Kelly would have seemed much smarter. 
overall: A disappointing loss 
could have been an uplifting win for Notre Dame with a bit better 
2.89 

execution at nearly any point in the game. 
adding up the numbers 
Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson’s 87­yard touchdown run in the second quarter was 
87 

the longest in Notre Dame Stadium history. 

19 
First loss after a streak of 19 consecutive regu­lar season victories for Brian Kelly, dating back to Oct. 25, 2008. 
Armando Allen’s 29-yard run in the third quar­ter set a new career long, topping a 26-yard 
29 


rush against Connecticut on Nov. 21, 2009. 
9 
Senior walk-on kicker David Ruffer has now converted all nine of his career field goal 

attempts, after drilling a 24-yarder Saturday. 
By scoring on the opening drive of 71 yards, Notre Dame scored on its first drive for the 
71


first time since November 2009. 

95 
Kyle Rudolph’s 95-yard touchdown reception in the fourth quarter was the second-longest reception in Irish history. 
By accounting for 502 of Michigan’s 532 total yards, Denard Robinson produced 
94.4 


94.4 percent of the Wolverines offense. 

Dayne Crist completed passes to seven differ­7 ent targets, including eight completions to Kyle Rudolph and five to Michael Floyd. 

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 

Junior quarterback Nate Montana looks for an open receiver during Saturday’s loss to Michigan. In his first action in a Notre Dame uniform, Montana filled in for starting quarterback Dayne Crist when Crist could not see out of his right eye after taking a helmet-to-helmet blow in the first quarter. 


Failure is not simply one loss 
Many complaints could be heard after the Irish loss Saturday. 
Without Dayne Crist, Notre Dame is hopeless. Denard Robinson isn’t human. The Notre Dame defense has­n’t improved. Rich Rodriguez out-coached Brian Kelly. 
Well, Tommy Rees and Nate Montana did not inspire any confi­dence in Notre Dame fans. Denard Robinson was utterly breathtaking and Douglas Farmer is now a bona-fide Heisman contender, and Sports Editor the Irish defense let him do what­ever he wanted. 


But, Rich Rodriguez did not outcoach Brian Kelly. 
One coach had a very easy job Saturday: snap the ball to a dynamic quarterback and let him make you look like a football genius. Then, hold your breath that your quarterback outscores the other team on his own. 
One coach had a very difficult job Saturday: try to minimize the effect of a player who has already tallied 885 total yards this season. Then, put your offense in a position to put lots of points on the board. 
After the first series of the game, the coach with a difficult job lost his own starting quarterback for the majority of a half, and Brian Kelly suddenly had to find a way to put his offense in a posi­tion to score without its commander or primary playmaker. 
Was that Kelly’s fault? Should he have been better prepared for a Crist injury? 
“We know who our back-up quarter­backs in terms of candidacy, who they are,” Kelly said immediately after the game. “I just have to do a better job getting them ready.” 
So yes, Kelly overestimated the capa­bilities of both Rees and Montana, but what coach enters a rivalry game plan­ning on his starting quarterback miss­ing most of the first half? 
Crist’s injury was unfortunate and frightening, but Kelly cannot be faulted for that. 
In fact, the Irish appeared to be very well-coached on Saturday, and the Wolverines looked undisciplined, unor­ganized and entirely too dependent on Robinson. 
Notre Dame punter Ben Turk placed four of his eight punts inside the 20­yard line, and the Irish only committed four penalties, for a total of 29 yards — after committing only two penalties for 15 yards against Purdue last week. 
Meanwhile, Michigan missed two field goals and committed eight penal­ties for 99 yards, including one on Notre Dame’s final drive which played a large factor in the Irish having a chance as time expired. 
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez, the man with a very easy job, is now in his third season with the Wolverines. By now, the team should start to show signs of discipline and of understanding his system. 
Kelly has been at Notre Dame for nine months now, and already the Irish don’t give away games like they did in the past, with turnovers or penalties in crucial situations. 
Already the Irish play, or, in Kelly’s wording, “battle,” for four quarters, no matter how the game is going. 
So yes, Notre Dame lost to Michigan on another last-minute drive. Irish fans have reasons to be upset, but, for the first time since Lou Holtz left, the coaching is not one of those reasons. 
Saturday’s loss illustrated just how much Kelly has brought to the Irish. 
Facing a first-and-14 from its own five-yard line, Notre Dame did not wither. Instead, Crist hit Kyle Rudolph for an exhilarating 95-yard touchdown. 
Did the defense then proceed to col­lapse and allow a 72-yard touchdown drive? There are two answers to that question. One — yes, the defense did collapse, painfully so. Two — no defense has managed to stop Robinson yet, and no defense is about to. 
Thus, Rodriguez handed the ball to “Shoelaces” time and time again, and let the athletic dynamo run wild. 
Nonetheless, there stood Kelly with three seconds left in the game, having gotten the Irish into a position where they could still snag the win. That accomplishment reflects upon Kelly’s last nine months as much as it does upon his Saturday. 
In only nine months, Kelly has inspired these Irish to toughen up both mentally and physically. In only nine months, Kelly has installed a game-plan strong enough to match Denard Robinson blow-for-blow Saturday, and nearly to top him. 
In only nine months, Kelly has changed the attitude in the football program. Now the program acts with confidence, smarts and skill, as opposed to the arrogance, hope and talent that once prevailed. 
Anybody can act with confidence, smarts and skill when they are win­ning. How Notre Dame handled the tough game, the tough loss, shows it is more than an act. 
In many ways, it is the coaching. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Monday, September 13, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Robinson raises questions for Irish 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer 

Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson evades the Notre Dame defense during Michigan’s 28-24 victory Saturday. Robinson tallied 502 total yards in the victory, including the longest touchdown run in Notre Dame Stadium history, an 87-yarder. 
While the first half numbers hardly because the safety’s engaged,” Kelly said. 
By CHRIS MASOUD suggest a successful strategy at work — “So we had to play a little bit more man-
Sports Writer Robinson tallied 281 yards and two to-man to take away the passing game.” 
touchdowns through the game’s first 30 Yet 3:41 is more than enough time for 
If winning a football game is a team minutes — adjusting to a player of a college quarterback to march a team effort, Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson’s caliber isn’t exactly a down the field, especially when he has a Robinson produced this season’s most straightforward process. knack for breaking tackles. Robinson convincing counterexample. The sopho-“It’s unfair to replicate [his ability] in rushed for just 17 yards on the final more accounted for 502 of the practice, because it’s not possible,” jun-drive, but exposed the Irish secondary Wolverines’ 532 yards of total offense, ior defensive end Ethan Johnson said. for 55 yards through the air. led his team 72 yards for the game-win-“It’s more challenging with what he does “Obviously if somebody has that many ning drive and muscled his way into the than just somebody trying to imitate yards on you, that’s pretty embarrass-end zone from the 2-yard line for the him.” ing,” senior safety Harrison Smith said. game’s final score. But for much of the second half, the “It’s up to the players to execute, and we 
The verdict on Robinson is clear. Irish defense managed to bring pressure just didn’t do that on every play. We gave Pundits are touting him as the season’s on the mobile quarterback without the up some big plays, and that’s how a team first legitimate Heisman contender. Yet use of the blitz. Despite zero sacks, solid like that will beat you.” for the Notre Dame defense, which limit-penetration from the front three led to While Irish fans are ready to question ed Purdue to just 322 yards of total several rushed throws, and great con-a defense that showed promise in its sea-offense in the season opener, the tainment kept Robinson from breaking son opener, they can take heart in the answers are far less apparent. loose. fact that the stalwarts of the defense 
“We obviously would have liked to have “Our defense really kept us in the ball continued their strong play. tackled better in that last drive,” Irish game, even while we were mucking it Sophomore inside linebackers Manti coach Brian Kelly said. “We had some around on offense there,” Kelly said. Te’o and Carlo Calabrese tallied 26 tack-missed assignments that we had not had. “And other than the last drive, I thought les, and the secondary prevented the So we obviously were fatigued, and it our defense competed.” Wolverines receivers from reaching the might have been just being on the field a Yet the Irish abandoned that strategy end zone in the second half. little bit too long. That’s a great excuse. for the game’s final drive, instead opting “We did good,” Te’o said. “I don’t know We didn’t give them that excuse in the for a defensive package designed to pro-if I can grade anything off a loss. A cou­locker room.” vide additional pressure on both ple of plays we let go, but overall we did 
Kelly’s game plan heading into Robinson and his receivers. good. We’ll fight for four quarters. It Saturday’s contest was simple — limit “Well we brought some edge pressures, doesn’t matter what the score is.” Robinson’s impact on the game, but do and felt like the bubble slant combina­not sacrifice coverage by sending too tion zone is a tough play to defend when Contact Chris Masoud at many extra blitzers to do it. it happens so far out on the perimeter cmasoud@nd.edu 
Despite tough loss, Irish win two recruits 
George, a 6-foot-2, 194-Like father, like son have come down to the final 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

pound athlete, could play at Making his first career two minutes. Four of those 
Sports Editor 

running back or receiver, fit-appearance in an Irish uni-seven — 1980, ’94, ’09 and 
ting a role similar to the role form, junior quarterback ’10 — were decided in the Future gains Percy Harvin fit at Florida in Nate Montana completed final seconds. 
Despite the loss to years past, Irish recruiting eight of 17 pass attempts, Michigan, Notre Dame expert Mike Frank said and rushed for 23 yards on Starting success reportedly earned two before the weekend. four carries. Freshman receiver TJ recruiting commitments from “I think Notre Dame envi-Montana became a part of Jones, who enrolled early in one family. Twins George and sions him in a Percy Harvin the first father-son quarter-the spring, became the first Josh Atkinson committed to role — you put him at wide back tandem in Notre Dame Notre Dame receiver to Notre Dame on Sunday, receiver or running back,” history to complete passes catch a touchdown pass in according to Rivals.com. said Frank, who heads the for the Irish. Joe Montana, each of his first two games. 
The Atkinsons’ official visit online ESPN-affiliate Irish an NFL Hall of Famer, Jones and quarterback continues through Monday, Sports Daily. “The main thing played for Notre Dame from Dayne Crist hooked up for a and their commitments bring is you just want to put the 1975-78. 53-yard score in the third the Irish recruiting class to ball in his hands, because he quarter, the longest score of 18 members already. has the ability to score from Close calls the season for the Irish until 
Josh, a 6-foot, 180-pound anywhere.” Notre Dame and Michigan Crist found tight end Kyle cornerback, long favored Three other four-star should be getting used to Rudolph for a 95-yard Oregon, but the lack of depth recruits were on campus for close games with late lead touchdown in the fourth in the Notre Dame secondary the weekend: safety Wayne changes. Half of their last 20 quarter. could provide him a chance Lyons, defensive end Stephon meetings have been decided to play sooner than at Tuitt and offensive tackle by five points or less, and Contact Douglas Farmer at Oregon. Antonio Richardson. seven of the last 25 games dfarmer1@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
N otre D am e  14  7  0  7  28  
Purdue  7  0  10  7  24  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 0 
Dayne Crist 1-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 
11:19 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 71 yards, 3:41 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 7 
Roy Roundtree 31-yd pass from Denard Robinson (Brendan Gibbons kick) with 8:06 remaining. Drive: 1 play, 31 yards, 0:06 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 14 
Stephen Hopkins 1-yd run (Gibbons kick) with 
1:26 remaining. Drive: 5 play, 65 yards, 1:40 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 21 
Robinson 87-yd run (Gibbons kick) with 1:51 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 98 yards, 1:56 elapsed. 

Third quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan 21 
TJ Jones 53-yd pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 12:42 remaining. Drive: 2 plays, 53 yards, 0:12 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 17, Michigan 21 
Ruffer 24-yd field goal with 8:48 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 66 yards, 2:14 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 21 
Kyle Rudolph 95-yd pass from Crist with 3:41 remaining. Drive: 1 play, 91 yards, 0:34 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 28 
Robinson 2-yd run with 0:27 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 72 yards, 3:14 elapsed. 



statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

Time of Possession 


passing  
Crist  13-25-277  Robinson  24-40-244  
rushing  
Allen Crist Montana  15-94 4-30 4-23  Robinson Smith Shaw Hopkins  28-258 7-17 5-12 1-1  

receiving  
Rudolph  8-164  Odoms  7-91  
Jones  3-73  Roundtree  8-82  
Floyd  5-66  Stonum  4-33  
Riddick  2-39  Shaw  3-28  
Eifert  1-17  Grady  1-7  
Gray  1-13  Smith  1-3  
Allen  1-9  


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 13, 2010 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer 


A familiar story 


Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson racked up 502 yards and three touchdowns, including the game-winner with 
only 27 seconds left, reminding Irish fans of Tate Forcier’s 
heroics a year ago. 
Irish quarterback Dayne Crist missed most of the first half after leading Notre Dame to a touchdown on its opening drive. 
Without Crist, Notre Dame sputtered throughout the 
remainder of the half, until he returned to lead the team to 
another touchdown on the opening drive of the second half. 
Crist finished the day with 277 passing yards 
and two touchdowns. 



GRACE KENESEY/The Observer YUE WU/The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Quarterback Dayne Crist evades the Michigan rush; tight end Kyle Rudolph extends for a pass from Nate Montana; Rudolph races down the sideline on his way to a lead-taking 95-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter; linebacker Manti Te’o makes one of his 13 tackles; receiver Michael Floyd heads up field after pulling in a Crist pass. 
The Observer 




Scene
Monday, September 13, 2010 page 9 

Name: Dan Marsh and Nora Goebelbecker 
Spotted: On South Quad 


Dan attends University of Illinois and Nora lives in Pasquerilla West 
Wearing matching plaid flannel, Nora is wearing skinny jeans, pink headphones, and is rocking a sick Razor scooter. She is ready for autumn and loves wearing flannel in fall. She likes wear ing loose comfortable shirts and skinny jeans - it's the perfect blend of comfort and fashion. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

I have always been a shameless clotheshorse. My passion for fash­ion has led me, on a high note, to small boutiques, unknown vintage purveyors, mega-stores (hello my 
sweet Zara and 
Felicia 
H&M!) and fashion shows. 
Caponigri 
It has also led to overstuffed suitcases, seri-Scene W riter ous lower-back issues from running through air­ports with said luggage because I was up too late the night before try­ing to cram all those irreplaceable accessories 
Part of the life-changing aspect of the study abroad experience lies in its exhortation to enjoy every moment of every day, to take a slower pace and take greater care. That may mean taking the scenic route to class or taking the time to match that bag with a proper shoe. All of us return from our study abroad experience eager to incor­porate these newfound lessons into 
our American way 
into the top  of life, yet soon find  
compart­ it difficult if not  
ment and  totally impossible.  
loud argu- For many, one of  
ments with  the emulated expe­ 
check-in  riences is the “je  
attendants  ne sais quoi” (“I  
as to the  don’t know what,”  
validity of  or, a quality that  
my having  makes something  
said number  distinctive) chic- 
of suitcases.  ness and personal  
Finally, it  style of our coun­ 
gave me a  terparts from  
nickname of  abroad. The goal of  
“girl with  this column is to  
eight suitcas­ help this emulation  
es” for a  flourish, and to  
whole month  highlight certain  
from my  parts of the  
poor fellow  European  
male stu­ wardrobe which  
dents who  can easily translate  
had to lug  to this side of the  
said luggage  pond. So, voila! We  
up the many flights of stairs while  FELICIA CAPONIGRI/The Observer Aubry Skorich, a senior, models the scarf as a halter top  will commence with the scarf! The square silk  
moving into  scarf is an indis­ 

my temporary dorm room in the pensable part of any wardrobe. It City of Lights. can be tied traditionally around the 
Yes, the quest for style never did neck, or used as a headband, belt, run smoothly. However, it has lead purse or even, for the very brave me to some really cool places (Paris (and this is my personal favorite), and Florence, the altar of as a halter top to be worn alone in Ferragamo at which I worshipped summer, or underneath a warm as an intern for a 
sweater in cooler whole blessed sum-
temperatures. A pat-mer), which I feel 
terned scarf instantly leaves me quite 
finishes an outfit, qualified to 
allowing your viewer expound on its 
to perceive your importance. 
whole look as a com-Some will tell you 
plete canvas. While a it is a waste of time 
Parisian woman 
would run to her local an extra 30 min­— why do you take 
Hermès to buy this utes to do hair and 
luxury item, make-up every 
American Apparel morning? Why con-
has just begun to template the make them for an options of what to affordable college wear and color-student price of $18. coordinate the out-What more could a fit? girl ask for? 
Well, darlings, why did you stare in awe at that European woman The views expressed in this col-whom you saw sashaying on Via umn are those of the author and Condotti or Boulevard Saint not necessarily those of The Germain while you were studying Observer. abroad? Why were your eyes wide Contact Felicia Caponigri at with the contemplation of continen-fcaponig@nd.edu@nd.edu 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 13, 2010 
NFL 




Texans upset Colts as Foster sets team record 
Patriots offensive attack overwhelms Bengals; Packers top Eagles despite strong performance by Michael Vick 
pounding and pounding, and the key to the game being the 
Associated Press 

they start getting a little tired most physical team and our 
HOUSTON — It took a record and we start getting a little offensive line,” Houston coach day by an undrafted running tired. It’s a test of wills.” Gary Kubiak said. “That’s what back for the Houston Texans to Foster, acquired by the Texans you want as a coach. You want end years of frustration against last summer, had 33 carries in those guys walking the sideline Peyton Manning and the gaining the most yards by a saying, ‘Run the ball, coach.” Indianapolis Colts. Colts’ opponent. The Colts’ offensive line pro-
Arian Foster, who spent most “We failed to rise to the occa-tected Manning better in the of last season on the practice sion, which we don’t normally second half than it did in the squad, ran for a team record do,” Colts linebacker Clint first, and Manning guided 231 yards and scored three Session said. “We normally get Indianapolis inside the Texans touchdowns to carry the Texans out of these kinds of games, but 30. to a 34-24 victory over the we couldn’t do it.” Mario Williams sacked defending AFC champion Colts Manning completed 40 of 57 Manning on third down from on Sunday. passes for 433 yards and three the Texans 27, driving the Colts 
“Coming into the league, you touchdowns, the fourth-highest out of field-goal range. Williams don’t know what to expect, opening weekend passing yards has sacked Manning six times especially if you are not herald-total since 1933, and three since 2006, the most by any ed and there’s not a lot of pub-touchdowns. He threw a 10-player. licity,” Foster said. “You see yard TD pass to Dallas Clark “We had great preparation guys like Andre Johnson and with 4:52 left to cut Houston’s this week,” Williams said. “We Matt Schaub and the way they lead to 27-17. studied film and figured stuff carry themselves, and you try to But Foster ran for 41 yards on out for ourselves. It was pretty mimic it and make your own the Texans’ next series and much on-the-go. Some of the in the same stadium, the agent and assumed the “Robin” personality. I feel privileged to capped his day with an 8-yard things we did out there was, Patriots led the Bengals by the identity for himself. be here.” TD run. ‘Hey, you do this, and I’ll do same score. On the Patriots’ first offensive 
Foster had the NFL’s second-The Texans ranked 30th in that.’ It was unorthodox, but it New England quickly boosted play, Welker caught a 5-yard best opening weekend rushing rushing last season, and build-worked.” a 24-3 halftime lead to 31-3 on pass over the middle. He ended performance since 1933, topped ing a ground attack was a focal Tate’s touchdown. that drive with a 9-yard touch-only by Buffalo’s O.J. Simpson’s point at training camp. Foster Patriots 38, Bengals 24 Cincinnati cut that to 31-17 on down. Stephen Gostkowski’s 32­250 in 1973 against New beat out Steve Slaton for the No. Tom Brady was back where Carson Palmer’s scoring passes yard field goal made it 10-0, England. He also surpassed 1 running back spot, despite he’s most comfortable, on the of 1 yard to rookie tight end and Welker struck again with a Domanick Davis’ team record of spending the first 10 games of field with Wes Welker grabbing Jermaine Gresham midway 4-yard scoring catch 158 yards, set in 2004 at last season on the practice touchdown passes. through the third quarter and Jacksonville. squad. The headline-making quarter-28 yards to Ochocinco with 22 Packers 27, Eagles 20 
The Texans (1-0) ran for a “We heard all offseason that back threw two of his three seconds remaining in the peri-Not even a vintage perform-franchise record 257 yards and our running game wasn’t effi-touchdown passes to Welker, od. ance by Michael Vick — yes, backed up their bold talk in the cient,” Foster said. “You can who returned from a serious Then, Brady took back control Michael Vick — could stop the offseason that they were ready either let it get to you, or let it knee injury, and led the New by leading a 14-play, 81-yard Green Bay Packers. to challenge Indianapolis. The get in you, and I feel like we let England Patriots to a win over march capped by a 1-yard scor-Aaron Rodgers threw a pair of Colts came into the game with it get in us, and we used it.” the Cincinnati Bengals on ing pass to Rob Gronkowski, touchdown passes, Mason 15 wins in 16 games in the Houston led 13-10 at halftime Sunday. another rookie tight end. It was Crosby kicked a team-record series, including rallying from and turned the offense over to The season-opening victory his first pro touchdown and, 56-yard field goal and the 17 points down in the previous Foster to start the third quarter. came just three days after before lining up to block for the Packers beat the Philadelphia two meetings in Houston. He rushed 10 times for 49 yards Brady was unhurt in a two-car extra point, he handed the ball Eagles on Sunday. 
“We had to have patience,” on the drive, finishing the eight-crash then agreed to a contract to Brady for safekeeping on the In their first game since trad-Foster said. “It didn’t feel like I minute march with a 1-yard making him the NFL’s highest sideline. ing Donovan McNabb to was going to be able to get touchdown run. paid player. Brady completed 25 of 35 Washington, the Eagles (0-1) going early, but you keep “At halftime, we talked about His day was made smoother passes for 258 yards. Palmer, started with Kevin Kolb and fin-by Welker, who caught eight forced to throw because of the ished with Vick. Kolb left with a passes for 64 yards less than big deficit, finished 34 for 50 for concussion at halftime, so Vick eight months after surgery for a 345 yards and two touchdowns. played meaningful snaps for an torn knee ligament. Ochocinco had 12 catches for extended period for the first 
Chad Ochocinco and Terrell 159 yards, and Owens added time in nearly four years. Owens combined for 19 recep-seven receptions for 53 yards. Vick, a three-time Pro Bowl tions for 212 yards and a touch-Cedric Benson scored on a 1-quarterback during six seasons down for the Bengals, but their yard run for Cincinnati with in Atlanta, invigorated an impact fell short of the hype that 3:57 left in the game. offense that was awful in the accompanied their partnership. While the Patriots’ offense first half. He finished with 175 
The Patriots’ dominance was was expected to be strong, the yards passing and ran for 103, complete as they also scored on young defense was suspect but reminiscent of his “Superman” defense with Gary Guyton’s 59-was very stingy in the first half. days with the Falcons. yard interception return and on The Bengals first five posses-Vick’s last NFL start came on special teams on Brandon Tate’s sions ended with three punts, a Dec. 31, 2006, in Philadelphia. 97-yard runback of the second-lost fumble and Guyton’s touch-He missed the next two seasons half kickoff. down that made it 24-0 with while serving an 18-month sen-
Welker led the NFL with 346 5:38 left in the half. tence in federal prison for his receptions the past three years, On their first offensive play, role in a dogfighting operation. the last coming on Jan. 3 in the Palmer threw about 35 yards Vick signed a two-year contract regular-season finale at down the left sideline toward with the Eagles last summer, Houston. He tore a ligament in Owens. Rookie cornerback and saw limited action mostly in his left knee on the play and Devin McCourty, a first-round a variation of the wildcat forma­missed New England’s 33-14 draft pick, stayed with him step tion. first-round playoff loss to for step and broke up the play. He finally got his chance, and Baltimore. Ochocinco gave Owens the made the most of it. Still, it was-
The Ravens led that game 24-nickname “Batman” after the n’t enough against Green Bay 0 in Gillette Stadium. On Sunday Bengals signed him as a free (1-0). 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



CLASSIFIEDS 
I'm pretty sure there's a lot more to “Joey, have you ever been in a “If it weren't for electricity we'd all be life than being really, really, ridicu-Turkish prison?” watching television by candlelight.”

WANTED FOR RENT PERSONAL lously good looking. And I plan on 
finding out what that is. - George Gobal 

Apartments for Rent -Airplane Join a fun, fast growing co called ——————————————— InvisibleSHIELD by ZAGG. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't - Zoolander ——————————————— 
Near Airport, on Busline 1 Bdr. go it alone. Notre Dame has many ——————————————— 
resources in place to assist you. If “I am so clever that sometimes I Two things are infinite: the universe Sales associate wanted for kiosk in $600 and 2 Bdr. $725 you or someone you love needs "Name's Barf. I'm a Mog, half man don't understand a single word of and human stupidity; and I'm not the mall. confidential support or assistance, half dog. I'm my own best friend." what I am saying.” sure about the universe. 
All Util. Included please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: -Spaceballs - Oscar Wilde -Albert Einstein 
Call 317-287-4244 Call Mike 574-250-0191 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————— 
Monday, September 13, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
MLB 



Cabrera lifts Tigers to victory over Orioles 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Thanks to an untimely walk in the eighth inning, the Baltimore Orioles ended up facing Miguel Cabrera with the bases loaded. 
On the first pitch he faced, Cabrera turned a one-run deficit into a two-run lead and sent the Detroit Tigers on to a 6-2 victory Sunday. 
“When you hit in the middle of the order, those are the situa­tions you want,” said Cabrera, who leads the major leagues with 116 RBIs. “He threw me a fastball, and I got a good piece of it.” 
With the Orioles ahead 2-1, Will Rhymes led off the eighth with a single against Mike Gonzalez (0-3) and took third on Ryan Raburn’s double. Orioles manager Buck Showalter brought in David Hernandez, who got ahead 1-2 in the count to pinch-hitter Austin Jackson before loading the bases with a walk. 
That foiled Showalter’s plan to intentionally walk Cabrera. He already has 30 intentional walks this season, four short of Ted Williams’ AL record. 
“Obviously, at that point, we’re hoping David can strike Jackson out so that we can walk Cabrera, but it didn’t work out that way,” Showalter said. “You don’t want to pitch to him in a situation like that — you’ve seen what he has done to every team in the major leagues this year.” 
Two outs later, Brandon Inge hit a two-run homer off Alfredo Simon. 
“It was huge when Will got the hit to start the inning, but Miggy got us the big hit again,” Inge said following his 11th home run this season. “If I were man­aging against him, I’m not sure I’d even pitch to him with the bases loaded. He just kills every­one. 
Justin Verlander (16-8) struck out 11, matching his season high set June 16 against Washington. He allowed both runs and five hits in eight innings, and walked one. 
“I felt great out there — as good as I’ve felt all year,” said Verlander, who is 11-3 at Comerica Park this season. “My fastball was good, and I could throw my curveball wherever I needed it — for strikes or balls.” 
Phil Coke finished with a hit­less ninth. 
Orioles starter Chris Tillman only allowed one hit — Inge’s clean single to center in the sec­ond — but walked a career-high six in his 6 2-3 innings. The Orioles are 23-15 since Showalter took over after a 32­73 start. 
“Chris got himself into some trouble with the walks, but he kept making enough pitches to get himself out of trouble,” Showalter said. “He didn’t get intimidated by facing Verlander, even though he knew that meant he didn’t have much margin for error out there.” 
Detroit, which got back to .500 at 72-72, began the game with­out Jackson, Johnny Damon, Magglio Ordonez, Carlos Guillen and Gerald Laird — either due to injury or rest. The lack of offense showed, with the Tigers managing one hit in the first seven innings. 



NFL 


Moss not happy in situation 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Patriots receiver Randy Moss lashed out in a lengthy and pas­sionate news conference after Sunday’s 38-24 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals, saying he doesn’t feel appreciated in New England and that waiting until after the season to get a new contract would be “a smack in my face.” 
Bristling at reports this week that said he was unhappy, Moss promised not to be a distraction even though he doesn’t think the Patriots appreciate his con­tributions since arriving in 2007. He has had three straight 1,000-yard seasons, including a record-setting ‘07 in which he caught 23 touchdowns while helping New England to a per­fect 16-0 mark in the regular season. 
“It’s not that I’m mad or try­ing to be disgruntled. I’m hurt. You give me a word,” he said. “Sometimes you want your boss to tell you you’re doing a good job. That’s every man or woman who works for somebody. ... And that’s just the way with football. If you do a good job and think that you’re doing a good job, you want to be appre­ciated. I really don’t think that 
— me, personally — that I’m appreciated.” 
But Moss, who complained that reporters twist his words around, also said in a 16­minute back-and-forth: “I’m not saying that I’m not appreciated here.” 
After a week in which quar­terback Tom Brady was made the highest-paid player in the NFL, Moss said he would con­sider an extension to stay in New England. But Moss said there have been no new talks about a new deal to replace the one that expires after this sea­son. 

page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, September 13, 2010 
MLB 



Red Sox rally to beat A’s; Pujols powers Cards 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — Pinch-hit­ter Ryan Kalish hit a go-ahead two-run single in the sixth, J.D. Drew had a two-run double one batter earlier and the Boston Red Sox rallied for a 5-3 victory over the Oakland Athletics on Sunday. 
Josh Beckett (5-4) settled down after a rocky start as Boston avoided its first sweep by the A’s since May 23-25, 2008. The Red Sox have been swept in the series only three times in the last 18 years. 
Dallas Braden (9-12), still try­ing to reach double digits in wins for the first time in his career, lost his third straight start. All the damage came in that tough sixth inning. The left-hander also struggled with location, walking four after issuing two or fewer walks in each of his previous 20 starts. 
Oakland’s Coco Crisp stole six bases in the series against his former team, including his career-high 29th and 30th on Sunday. 
The Red Sox added an insur­ance run in the eighth on pitcher Jerry Blevins’ wild throw past first trying to get Drew on a sin­gle. That allowed pinch-runner Josh Reddick to score. 
Boston won for only the fifth time in its last 13 road games. The Red Sox still have three games in Seattle starting Monday to conclude their second-to-last trip of the year. 
Jonathan Papelbon worked a perfect ninth with three called strikeouts for his 36th save in 43 chances, pitching for the first time in seven days. He threw 48 pitches in his career-high seventh blown save and loss to the White Sox on Sept. 5. 
Daric Barton was ejected after the final out by home plate umpire Hunter Wendelstedt for arguing the called third strike. 
Crisp got his 29th steal in the third for a new career high, top­ping his 28 for the Red Sox in 2007. He stole No. 30 in the sixth 
— and on a day Hall of Fame speedster and Crisp mentor Rickey Henderson gave a pushup demonstration in the clubhouse pregame to show he still has it at 51. 
This marked the first time the Red Sox gave up six steals to an A’s player since Henderson had six from July 2-4, 1984. 
Mark Ellis hit a two-run double in the fifth to put the A’s up 3-0. Ellis extended his hitting streak to a career-high 12 games with an infield single in the second. 
Cliff Pennington hit a two-out triple in the bottom of the sixth after the Red Sox took the lead, but Oakland couldn’t capitalize. 
Beckett ran into trouble in the third, when he walked four straight batters and issued Jack Cust’s free pass to force in the first run of the game. After Kurt Suzuki drew a walk for Beckett’s third consecutive base on balls, he received a mound visit from pitching coach John Farrell. Then catcher Victor Martinez came out to chat during Cust’s plate appearance. 
Yet Beckett got out of the inning without further damage, retiring Ellis on a called third strike and Jeremy Hermida on a liner. It was the first time he walked so many in one inning since issuing five walks in the top of the first on Sept. 23, 2004, while with Florida against Philadelphia — but those didn’t all come in order. He walked four in a row for the first time in his career. 
Beckett allowed three runs on five hits in six innings, struck out seven and walked five to win for the first time in three starts. He had lost two of his last three decisions but was coming off a season-best nine-strikeout per­formance in a no-decision against the White Sox his last time out. 
The right-hander has allowed three or fewer earned runs in each of his last seven outings against Oakland, four of those at the Coliseum. 
Cardinals 7, Braves 3 
Albert Pujols hit two home runs to power the St. Louis Cardinals past Atlanta on Sunday night, dropping the Braves out of first place in the NL East. 
Atlanta fell one game behind the Philadelphia Phillies, who beat the New York Mets 3-0 behind Roy Oswalt. 
Pujols passed Hall of Famer Stan Musial for the most multi-homer games in Cardinals histo­ry with 38, including five this season. 
Kyle Lohse (3-7) allowed nine hits but only two runs in 5 1-3 innings to beat Tim Hudson (15­8), who gave up six runs in five innings in his third straight loss. 
The second-place Cardinals gained a game in the NL Central but still trail Cincinnati by six. With a split of the four-game set, St. Louis won the season series 6­2. 
Nate McLouth had a homer and a double for Atlanta. Cardinals center fielder Colby Rasmus robbed McLouth of another possible homer with a leaping catch at the wall in the fourth. 

Pujols had three RBIs on Saturday, giving him 10 straight seasons with more than 100. He leads the NL with 39 homers and 104 RBIs. He also hit a homer Thursday in the opening game of the four-game series. 
Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said before the game that Pujols’ left elbow is feeling better, allowing the first baseman to fol­low through on his swings. Pujols had difficulty after landing on the elbow while making a catch in Pittsburgh late last month and hurting the elbow again a few days later. 


Monday, September 13, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS Page 13 

Waldrum 
continued from page 16 
had turned things in our favor in the second half,” Waldrum said to UND.com in a press release after the loss. “We had a couple of break­downs that ultimately led to their goals, but it’s nothing we can’t fix. It’s a good opportunity for us to learn from our mistakes and get 

Alumnae 
continued from page 16 
the girls on the course since we raced against Goshen,” Bauters said. “It was nice to see them working hard although there was limited competition.” 
better the next time out.” 
The Irish salvaged the weekend, however, with a 1-0 win over Loyola Marymount in the first ever meeting between the two schools. 
The Irish put the pressure on early, as junior forward Melissa Henderson scored the game’s only goal just 71 sec­onds into the match. The goal was her third of the season, all of which have been game-winners. 
Senior goalkeeper Nikki 
Improvement was particu­larly noticeable at the front of the lineup, as each of the top three Saint Mary’s runners shaved two minutes off of their total time since the team’s first two invitational races against Goshen and Wabash. 
Belles runners Junior Joanne Almond (21:01), soph-Weiss made four saves in the match and posted her fifth shutout in six games this year. 
Despite the low score, Notre Dame dominated the Lions offensively, sending off 17 shots as opposed to Loyola Marymount’s 7. The Irish also had four corner kicks while the Lions had just one. 
Waldrum was encouraged that his team was able to respond positively their first time out after the tough loss 
omore Julia Kenney (21:12) and senior Sam Wassel (21:15) were the first competitors to cross the finish line. 
The Alumnae Race marked the end of the Belles’ presea­son. In this week of practice, they will focus on staying healthy for their first competi­tive meet, the Calvin University Invitational in on Friday. 
“This was an important win for us on the road and coming 
o f f  t h e  d i s a p p o i n t m e n t  o f  
F r i d a y ’s  o v e r t i m e  l o s s  a t  
UCLA,” Waldrum said.  

With the weekend split, Notre Dame’s record stands at 5-1 this season. The Irish travel to Chicago this Friday for their Big East opener against DePaul. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Grand Rapids, Mich. Saturday. 
“This week is another week towards our end goal of per­forming well at the end of the season at championships,” said Bauters. “We will be look­ing to have our first competi­tive 5K.” 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 

Clark 
continued from page 16 
they didn’t let them settle.” 
It was also a successful weekend for junior goalkeep­er Will Walsh, who gave up only one goal in two games over the weekend. The goal came six seconds before the end of regulation against Cal Poly. Walsh, who is filling in for senior Phil Tuttle, has given up only two goals this season, and added seven saves to his tally this week­end. 
The Irish will be tested once again this weekend as they take on Michigan Friday in Ann Arbor before return­ing home to face No. 23 Michigan State Sunday at Alumni Field. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 




Belles go 1-1 for weekend 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles split this season’s first weekend of MIAA conference play, as they beat Albion 3-0 Friday and fell Saturday to anoth­er conference foe, Olivet 3-1. 
“The whole team played really well on Friday night,” senior Ellen Huelsmann said. “We did a great job of communicating together and had a lot of energy,” 
Sophomore Stephanie Bodien raked in a match-high 12 kills and 14 digs, and added two assists for the Belles (5-2). Bodien’s standout evening also included a .423 attack percentage, the best on the court. Junior Danie Brink had an evening-best 30 assists, and Huelsmann also made an impor­tant contribution with 11 digs. 
Saturday, the Belles headed to Olivet College (5-1) to face off against the Comets in their second straight conference match. 
Although Saint Mary’s did not leave victorious, losing 1-3, the first two sets were lost by a score of 22-25, and the third set was won 25-19. However, the momen­tum shifted back to Olivet as the Comets won the fourth set 25-16 for the overall win. 
“Communication had been a big help for us winning on Friday. We didn’t have as much communica­tion and energy as we did in our victory on Friday,” Huelsmann said. 
The Belles see Saturday’s loss as a learning opportunity and a way to grow as a team. 
“The loss really helped us to know what we need to work on as a team” Huelsmann said. “We did-n’t play as well as we did Friday night. It was a good experience to learn from, in terms of knowing our mistakes and finding out what we need to improve upon.” 
With only two days left to prac­tice before their next match, the Belles plan to work on eradicating the mistakes they made that cost them the Olivet game. 
“We’re going to work on a lot of the basics,” Huelsmann said. A lot of our mistakes were our own errors. We will definitely be work­ing on defense as well as aggres­sive serving.” 
Saint Mary’s will face their third conference opponent in five days Wednesday when the Belles travel to Grand Rapids, Mich., to face undefeated No. 9 Calvin College. 
Contact Katherine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 


SMC GOLF 
Belles finish second in first MIAA match 
Observer Staff Report 
The Saint Mary’s golf team put up another solid outing on Saturday for a second place in the first of four MIAA Jamborees hosted by Alma College at Pine River Country Club in Alma, Mich. 
The No. 5 Belles fell to Olivet College 335-331. Hope College (353) and Trine University (357) distantly fol­lowed Saint Mary’s on the leaderboard. 
Saint Mary’s showed once again that it has a lot of talent all around the team. Senior Mary Kate Boyce and fresh­man Marin Beagley led the Belles as each shot an 83, good enough for a tie for sec­ond place on the day. Four other golfers tied with Boyce and Beagley. Olivet’s Lauren Campbell took the prize as she finished in first place, seven strokes ahead of the second-place group with a 76. 
Senior Rosie O’Connor fin­ished third for the Belles one stroke behind Boyce and Beagley. The 84 O’Connor shot put her in eighth place overall. Freshmen Doyle O’Brien and Paige Pollak rounded out the top five Belles’ golfers and shot an 85 and an 88, respectively. 
The Belles will compete in the second MIAA Jamboree hosted by Calvin College at Thornapple Pointe Golf Club Tuesday. 



SMC SOCCER 

Belles fall to Otterbein, Ohio Northern in tournament 
much for Saint Mary’s (0-6) to second half as junior Adrienne on Saturday, however, suffering tain any offensive momentum as 

By JOSEPH WIRTH 

handle as it fell 2-0 Friday. Novak unleashed a shot that fin-their sixth loss in six total games the Polar Bears’ suffocating 
Sports Writer 

Otterbein got on the board ished in the back of the net and this season. defense held them to only five 
early, when Cardinals’ Abby quelled the Belles’ comeback The Belles were unable to shots and only one on goal. 
The Belles fell twice at the Misch capitalized on a Belles’ hopes. contain the Polar Bears’ fresh-Offensively, it has been a strug-Otterbein Tournament in defensive mistake and scored in The game marked the first man Sami Atkinson who gle all year for the Belles. Westerville, Ohio, this weekend, the second minute. St. Mary’s start at goalkeeper for Belles’ notched her first collegiate hat The Belles’ quest to find their for their fifth and sixth losses of righted the ship for the remain-sophomore Caitlin Walsh. She trick. The goals came in the 3rd, first win this season will take the new season. They have yet der of the first half and went stopped 16 of the 18 shots she 47th and 53rd minutes. them to Elmhurst, Ill., to take on to win a game. into the intermission trailing 1-faced. Walsh made 15 saves for the Elmhurst College Wednesday. 
Though the young Belles’ 0. The Belles continued play Belles in her second start on defense put up a tough fight, the The Cardinals notched their Saturday against Ohio Northern. goal. Contact Joseph Wirth at No. 7 Cardinals’ attack was too second goal 15 minutes into the They did not fare much better The Belles were unable to sus-jwirth@nd.edu 
NFL 




Kolb goes down with concussion, Vick plays 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Kevin Kolb’s head slammed into the turf, his eyes closed for sever­al seconds and he was slow to get up and walk to the side­line. 
Stewart Bradley flew head­first into a teammate’s leg. He was on all fours, struggled to get up on his own power, stumbled for a few steps and toppled to the ground. 
Both Philadelphia Eagles briefly returned to play after the punishing collisions. 
Both had concussions. 
They weren’t the only aching Eagles. 
Pro Bowl fullback Leonard Weaver and center Jamaal Jackson could both be out for the season after they were seriously injured in the Eagles’ 27-20 loss to the Packers on Sunday. Weaver has a torn ACL in his right knee and Jackson has a torn biceps on his right arm, part of a lengthy injury list that darkened an already abysmal opener. 
Coach Andy Reid defended his decision to let Kolb and Stewart return because “they were fine” after early testing. 
“All the questions that they answered with the doctors registered well,” Reid said. “But as it went on, they weren’t feeling well, so we took them out.” 
Kolb’s game was cut painful­ly short after his three-year wait to succeed Donovan McNabb. Kolb’s injury allowed Michael Vick his first chance to play meaningful minutes in four years when he was with Atlanta. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, September 13, 2010 
MEN’S GOLF 



Irish to kick off season in South Carolina 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will kick off the 2010­11 season with a chance to play at one of the nation’s top courses, The Ocean Course, in Kiawah Island, S.C., Monday and Tuesday. 
The Ocean Course was the site of the 1991 Ryder Cup and will be the host of the PGA Championships in 2012. 


Olsen 
continued from page 16 
Freshman Andie Olsen made her first start this weekend for the Irish — a possible prelude of big things to come for the middle-hitter from Oakland, Calif. 
“Andie had a really strong showing this weekend,” Brown said. “She allows us to open up our offense and is a strong hitter. If she is able to get comfortable on the court, she could really contribute this year.” 
The Irish return home next weekend for the Notre Dame Invitational, their last tour­nament before Big East play begins. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
With the honor of playing at The Ocean Course also comes the challenge, as wind consistently affects play. 
Irish coach James Kubinski played the course in the summer and said he is looking forward to the opportunity for his team to play at The Ocean. 
“It’s a great test for our guys.” Kubinski said. “If the wind blows it can be very difficult.” 
Kubinski’s confidence stems from the exciting mix of return­ing veterans with valuable expe­rience and a trio of talented freshmen. 
"All three of [the freshman] are hard-working and are adjusting well to the new college environ­ment,” senior Connor Alan-Lee said. “It's only a matter of time until they are big assets to our team" 
Among the returning golfers are junior leaders Max Scodro, Tom Usher and Chris Walker, each of whom played in at least seven tournaments for the Irish last season. 
“There’s lots of talent,” Kubinski said of his group. “They have all been playing really well.” 
Though Scodro and Usher fin­ished in a tie for first in last sea­son’s Big East Championship, the Irish fell by one stroke to Georgetown. 
“Our biggest goal, obviously, is winning a Big East Title," Alan-Lee said. “Losing by a shot com­ing down the stretch was tough. 
We’re itching to get back to the post season.” 
To ensure a good postseason performance, the Irish will focus on the challenge in front of them. 
“This year we're taking it one tournament at a time,” Alan-Lee said. 
The College of Charleston Invitational participants will tee off at 8:30 a.m. Monday. 


Contact Corey Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 



Monday, September 13, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 






 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer




Sports
Monday, September 13, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Defending home turf 
Irish defeat No. 22 Drake and Cal Poly in Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish had a successful weekend as they hosted the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament, winning a pair of games against No. 22 Drake and Cal Poly. 
Notre Dame’s offense, which had not scored in two regular season games, turned it around this weekend, scoring seven goals in two games, including a five-goal second half against Cal Poly Sunday afternoon. 
Senior forward Steven Perry was the star of Notre Dame’s Tournament opener against Drake. Perry scored both goals as the Irish defeated the Bulldogs 2­0 Friday night. Notre Dame out-shot Drake 32-9, and though Irish coach Bobby Clark said he was pleased with the outcome, he said that it could have been even more lopsided. 
“I thought we played very well,” Clark said. “We put two shots on the board, and we should have had more in many ways. But at the end of the day we were happy we had two. I think we need to work on finish­ing, but I thought that it was a very good game, with just a cou­ple of little lapses.” 
The Irish had no trouble finish­ing in their second game of the tournament, a 5-1 blowout against Cal Poly Sunday after­noon. After a scoreless first half, Notre Dame came out firing, scoring five straight goals, each tallied by a different player. Junior Aaron Maund started the onslaught in the 51st minute, and sophomore Dillon Powers capital­ized six minutes later off of a pass from senior Jeb Brovsky to give the Irish a two-goal lead. 
Junior Brendan King scored the third goal for the Irish, and was followed by senior Greg Klazura and sophomore Grant Van De Casteele, who each scored their first career goal. 
“I thought it was a game of two halves,” Clark said. “I was wor­ried at halftime that we were get­ting into a malaise. We were just slowing down and just going through the motions, but we talked about a few things at half time, and I thought the second half was just terrific. They took the tempo up, put a lot more pressure on than earlier, and 
see CLARK/page 13 
ND VOLLEYBALL 


Irish end weekend in Denver undefeated 
Freshman Olsen makes first career start 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish took first place at Denver’s Pioneer Classic this weekend, defeating Gonzaga, Jacksonville State and Denver for their first undefeated tournament since 2005. 
“To sweep a weekend you have to show consistency and concentration,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “Winning three days in a row is very difficult. We didn’t let any distractions or fatigue set in.” 
The Irish kicked off their weekend with a Friday night matchup against Gonzaga. Notre Dame took down the Bulldogs in convincing fash­ion, winning 3-0, (25-12, 25­15, 25-21). The attack was led by senior middle hitter Kelly Sciacca, who had 14 kills in only 21 attempts, for an impressive .619 hitting percentage. 
After dropping the first set against Jacksonville State on Saturday, the Irish stormed back and won the next three sets to win 3-1 (18-25, 25-15, 25-11, 25-19). Notre Dame was deadly from the service line, with seven different players notching aces. 
Notre Dame capped the weekend with a Sunday after­noon victory over tournament host Denver. The Irish took the match in straight sets, winning 3-0 (25-16, 25-17, 25-14). 
Middle hitters Sciacca and Hilary Eppnick led the Irish offense all weekend, and both were named to the Denver Invitational All-Tournament team. Brown said Sciacca and Eppnick benefited from solid team play the entire week­end. 
“When two middles hitters had the success that Kelly and Hilary this weekend, it is not just an individual effort,” Brown said. “The passing and setting was very solid this week, and we were consis­tently able to put them in position to get kills.” 
Superb serving catalyzed Notre Dame’s undefeated weekend. Brown said that area had previously been an issue, but the Irish serving improved greatly this week­end. 
“Even when we weren’t get­ting aces, we hit our spots and took teams out of their system,” Brown said. “It real­ly limited our opponents offensively and put pressure 
on them over and over again.” 
see OLSEN/page 14 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Junior midfelder Brendan King sprints past a Cal Poly oppo­nent during Notre Dame’s 5-1 domination Sunday. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 


Belles host invite for alumnae 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles held their 3rd annual Saint Mary’s College Alumnae Race Saturday for friendly competition between former and current members of the team to prepare for the upcoming regular season. 
“The alumnae race was fun despite the rain and cooler weather,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. “The race ended up being about fifteen alum­nae against the team.” 
Though this event did not count towards the regular season for the Belles, it pro­vided a chance for the girls to experience their home course before their MIAA conference events commence. 
“I thought we saw some nice improvements from some of 
see ALUMNAE/page 14 




UCLA hands Irish first loss 

YUE WU/The Observer Senior midfelder Rose Augustin makes a move on a Texas Tech defender during a Sept. 5 matchup. The Irish fell to UCLA 2-1 this weekend, but beat Loyola Marymount 1-0. 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame returns home from its first ever trip to southern California with its first loss of the year after splitting two games at the UCLA Women’s Cup. 
The No. 3/4 Irish began play on Friday night against No. 13 UCLA, dropping a heartbreaker to the Bruins after Jenna Richmond notched her second score of the game in overtime to defeat Notre Dame 2-1 
Richmond put UCLA on the board with her first goal just 
19:09 into the match. Senior midfielder Erica Iantorno responded for the Irish with a tally in the final minute of the first half for Notre Dame that tied the score and seemed to swing momentum in their favor. 
For the remainder of regu­lation, the Irish outshot the Bruins 7-2. Notre Dame even had a chance to win it in the final minute when UCLA goaltender Chante’ Sandiford challenged fresh­man midfielder Elizabeth Tucker near the goal, who then passed the ball to sen­ior midfielder Rose Augustin. Augustin had a seemingly open net to score 
on, but UCLA’s Lauren Barnes deflected her shot out of bounds. 
Despite the tough loss, Irish coach Randy Waldrum was able to find some posi­tives in his team’s perform­ance. 
“Losses are never easy to take and really, I thought we probably deserved a better fate based on the way we 
see WALDRUM/page 14 



IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, September 13, 2010 observer Notre Dame 24, Michigan 28 
Loose shoelaces 
Denard Robinson’s 502 yards and late touchdown upend Irish 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Irish coach Brian Kelly made his thoughts on Saturday’s 28­24 loss to Michigan very clear with his first words after the game. 
“This is certainly a disap­pointment,” he said. “It was a hard-fought game.” 
Sophomore Wolverines quar­terback Denard Robinson was virtually unstoppable in the wet conditions, rushing for 258 yards and two touchdowns, including the game-winning score with 27 seconds remain­ing, while passing for 244 yards and another touchdown. The all-purpose athlete even pinned the Irish deep in their own territory with a 30-yard punt in the third quarter. All told, Robinson accounted for 502 of the Wolverines’ total of 535 offensive yards and methodically led Michigan down the field in the last five minutes of the game to hand Notre Dame its first loss of the season. 
“I’m speechless right now,” Robinson said afterward. “That was amazing.” 
The Irish started the game in convincing fashion, opening the game with a 13-play, 71-yard drive capped by a one-yard touchdown run from junior quarterback Dayne Crist. On the drive, Crist tallied 29 rush­ing yards and 30 passing yards. 
When Notre Dame next took the field, freshman Tommy Rees lined up at quarterback while Crist was on the sideline, being attended to by trainers. The starting quarterback, whom Brian Kelly had deemed so important to his team’s suc­cess, had been injured on an earlier play in the scoring drive. 
“When we were in the huddle to go back out for that next series, I could tell that he was not focused,” Kelly said. “We thought it was best until he really got his bearings back. ... We weren’t going to play him under those circumstances.” 
Rees’ first pass in a Notre Dame uniform landed in Michigan linebacker Jonas Mouton’s hands. It took Robinson only one play to capi­talize on the miscue, as he threw a 31-yard strike to receiver Roy Roundtree to tie the game and silence the home crowd. 
With less than four minutes to go in the half, Robinson broke loose for an 87-yard touchdown run. 


Facing second-and-10 on his own 13-yard line, Robinson was able to find some open space on the right side and break loose for an 87-yard touchdown run in front of the Wolverine sideline. 
Notre Dame responded with a drive marked by a 37-yard pass from Montana to sopho­more receiver Theo Riddick that placed the Irish on the Michigan 3-yard line with three seconds remaining in the half. 
“I thought we were, two scores down, I thought that was an opportunity,” Kelly said. “We had the right look, we just read it wrong.” 
Montana’s pass into the end zone as time expired never had a chance, as it soared over everyone’s heads out of bounds. 
“We challenged our football team at halftime to make sure that everybody knew the kind of football that we were going to play,” Kelly said. “That was pretty clear.” 
When the teams took the field for the second half, it was clear that the Irish had found a new mentality. Buoyed by Crist’s imminent return, the defense bottled up Robinson and force a three-and-out. On his second play of the half, Crist found true freshman receiver TJ Jones for a 53-yard touchdown pass. 
“We were constantly doing things to adapt to what they were doing,” Crist said. “That was just a great call for that situation.” 
For the rest of the second half the Irish offense sputtered, unable to sustain any long drives and only mustering a David Ruffer field goal in the third quarter to pull the score to 21-17. 
Michigan let Notre Dame stay in the game by missing two field goals that rendered much of Robinson’s output moot. 
Late in the fourth quarter, Notre Dame faced first-and-14 on its own 5-yard-line when Crist was able to connect with junior tight end Kyle Rudolph for a 95-yard touchdown pass that sent the crowd into a fren­zy. 
“Kyle did a great job getting open,” Crist said. “The read took me there late in the down and he did a great job making the play.” 
But with 3:41 on the clock, the Irish had left Robinson too much time. 
“I was ready for that drive,” Robinson said. “We let them stick around too long, and it was time for us to put the game away.” 
Robinson did just that, methodically picking apart the Notre Dame defense on the ground and through the air, finally scoring on a two-yard touchdown run to cap off a 72­yard drive that ate up 3:14. Though the Irish were able to take one last shot into the end zone from 27 yards out on the last play, Crist’s pass sailed harmlessly out of the back of the end zone and Michigan escaped with a narrow victory. 
After the game, the Irish were rife with praise for Robinson. 
“I’m not going to compare him to anybody else,” senior running back Armando Allen said. “He deserves his own cat­egory.” 
Crist summarized the feelings of many on the Irish sideline and of many sporting kelly green in the stands. 
“Obviously, I’m incredibly dis­appointed,” he said. “I’m proud of the way the guys battled back, but at the end of the day, we’re never happy with a loss.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Denard Robinson 502 Denard Robinson’s two-yard touch­
“I have to do a better job to put those

Michigan quarterback down run with 0:27 left in the game 
guys in there. ... I just have to do a The Notre Dame defense had no better job getting them ready.” Robinson ran for 258 yards and two answer for Robinson as he tallied Robinson capped the clinching 72­touchdowns and threw for another 502 yards, with the final two com-yard drive with a dive into the Brian Kelly244 yards with a touchdown ing on the winning touchdown end zone Irish coach on ND’s back-up quarterbacks 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 13, 2010 


report card 
C+ 
quarterbacks: Dayne Crist played well, when he played, but barely completed 
50 percent of his passes. Tommy Rees and Nate Montana disappointed when they stepped in for Crist in the first half. 
B 
C+ 
B+ 


A B­
B+ B 

running backs: Armando Allen averaged 
5.9 yards per carry on his 15 attempts, but since the Irish went down early, they abandoned Allen, Cierre Wood and the running game. 
receivers: Drops plagued the Irish through­out the game. If it were not for TJ Jones’ 53-yard touchdown and Kyle Rudolph’s 95-yard score, the receiving corps would have had nearly no impact Saturday. 
offensive line: If anything, the offensive line gave the Irish quarterbacks too much to make decisions. When Notre Dame ran, there were holes available, and the line only allowed one sack. 
defensive line: Robinson may have run wild, but the Irish defensive line brought pressure throughout the game. Kelly said Kapron Lewis-Moore may have even played his best game. 
linebackers: Robinson’s success was partly due to the linebackers’ failures, but Manti Te’o and Carlo Calabrese combined for 23 tackles, and limited any other threats from the Wolverines. 
defensive backs: The Irish secondary lost track of receivers time and time again, including Michigan’s opening score when Zeke Motta — replacing injured Jamoris Slaughter — was far out of position. 
special teams: David Ruffer remained per­
fect on field goals, knocking in a 24­
yarder, and sent his kickoffs deep as 
usual, but the Irish allowed 101 return 
yards on only four kick returns. 
coaching: The back-up quarterbacks’ failures can be traced to Brian Kelly, but the Irish game plan was solid. Without a Crist injury, Kelly would have seemed much smarter. 
overall: A disappointing loss 
could have been an uplifting win for Notre Dame with a bit better 
2.89 

execution at nearly any point in the game. 
adding up the numbers 
Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson’s 87­yard touchdown run in the second quarter was 
87 

the longest in Notre Dame Stadium history. 

19 
First loss after a streak of 19 consecutive regu­lar season victories for Brian Kelly, dating back to Oct. 25, 2008. 
Armando Allen’s 29-yard run in the third quar­ter set a new career long, topping a 26-yard 
29 


rush against Connecticut on Nov. 21, 2009. 
9 
Senior walk-on kicker David Ruffer has now converted all nine of his career field goal 

attempts, after drilling a 24-yarder Saturday. 
By scoring on the opening drive of 71 yards, Notre Dame scored on its first drive for the 
71


first time since November 2009. 

95 
Kyle Rudolph’s 95-yard touchdown reception in the fourth quarter was the second-longest reception in Irish history. 
By accounting for 502 of Michigan’s 532 total yards, Denard Robinson produced 
94.4 


94.4 percent of the Wolverines offense. 

Dayne Crist completed passes to seven differ­7 ent targets, including eight completions to Kyle Rudolph and five to Michael Floyd. 

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 

Junior quarterback Nate Montana looks for an open receiver during Saturday’s loss to Michigan. In his first action in a Notre Dame uniform, Montana filled in for starting quarterback Dayne Crist when Crist could not see out of his right eye after taking a helmet-to-helmet blow in the first quarter. 


Failure is not simply one loss 
Many complaints could be heard after the Irish loss Saturday. 
Without Dayne Crist, Notre Dame is hopeless. Denard Robinson isn’t human. The Notre Dame defense has­n’t improved. Rich Rodriguez out-coached Brian Kelly. 
Well, Tommy Rees and Nate Montana did not inspire any confi­dence in Notre Dame fans. Denard Robinson was utterly breathtaking and Douglas Farmer is now a bona-fide Heisman contender, and Sports Editor the Irish defense let him do what­ever he wanted. 


But, Rich Rodriguez did not outcoach Brian Kelly. 
One coach had a very easy job Saturday: snap the ball to a dynamic quarterback and let him make you look like a football genius. Then, hold your breath that your quarterback outscores the other team on his own. 
One coach had a very difficult job Saturday: try to minimize the effect of a player who has already tallied 885 total yards this season. Then, put your offense in a position to put lots of points on the board. 
After the first series of the game, the coach with a difficult job lost his own starting quarterback for the majority of a half, and Brian Kelly suddenly had to find a way to put his offense in a posi­tion to score without its commander or primary playmaker. 
Was that Kelly’s fault? Should he have been better prepared for a Crist injury? 
“We know who our back-up quarter­backs in terms of candidacy, who they are,” Kelly said immediately after the game. “I just have to do a better job getting them ready.” 
So yes, Kelly overestimated the capa­bilities of both Rees and Montana, but what coach enters a rivalry game plan­ning on his starting quarterback miss­ing most of the first half? 
Crist’s injury was unfortunate and frightening, but Kelly cannot be faulted for that. 
In fact, the Irish appeared to be very well-coached on Saturday, and the Wolverines looked undisciplined, unor­ganized and entirely too dependent on Robinson. 
Notre Dame punter Ben Turk placed four of his eight punts inside the 20­yard line, and the Irish only committed four penalties, for a total of 29 yards — after committing only two penalties for 15 yards against Purdue last week. 
Meanwhile, Michigan missed two field goals and committed eight penal­ties for 99 yards, including one on Notre Dame’s final drive which played a large factor in the Irish having a chance as time expired. 
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez, the man with a very easy job, is now in his third season with the Wolverines. By now, the team should start to show signs of discipline and of understanding his system. 
Kelly has been at Notre Dame for nine months now, and already the Irish don’t give away games like they did in the past, with turnovers or penalties in crucial situations. 
Already the Irish play, or, in Kelly’s wording, “battle,” for four quarters, no matter how the game is going. 
So yes, Notre Dame lost to Michigan on another last-minute drive. Irish fans have reasons to be upset, but, for the first time since Lou Holtz left, the coaching is not one of those reasons. 
Saturday’s loss illustrated just how much Kelly has brought to the Irish. 
Facing a first-and-14 from its own five-yard line, Notre Dame did not wither. Instead, Crist hit Kyle Rudolph for an exhilarating 95-yard touchdown. 
Did the defense then proceed to col­lapse and allow a 72-yard touchdown drive? There are two answers to that question. One — yes, the defense did collapse, painfully so. Two — no defense has managed to stop Robinson yet, and no defense is about to. 
Thus, Rodriguez handed the ball to “Shoelaces” time and time again, and let the athletic dynamo run wild. 
Nonetheless, there stood Kelly with three seconds left in the game, having gotten the Irish into a position where they could still snag the win. That accomplishment reflects upon Kelly’s last nine months as much as it does upon his Saturday. 
In only nine months, Kelly has inspired these Irish to toughen up both mentally and physically. In only nine months, Kelly has installed a game-plan strong enough to match Denard Robinson blow-for-blow Saturday, and nearly to top him. 
In only nine months, Kelly has changed the attitude in the football program. Now the program acts with confidence, smarts and skill, as opposed to the arrogance, hope and talent that once prevailed. 
Anybody can act with confidence, smarts and skill when they are win­ning. How Notre Dame handled the tough game, the tough loss, shows it is more than an act. 
In many ways, it is the coaching. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Monday, September 13, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Robinson raises questions for Irish 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer 

Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson evades the Notre Dame defense during Michigan’s 28-24 victory Saturday. Robinson tallied 502 total yards in the victory, including the longest touchdown run in Notre Dame Stadium history, an 87-yarder. 
While the first half numbers hardly because the safety’s engaged,” Kelly said. 
By CHRIS MASOUD suggest a successful strategy at work — “So we had to play a little bit more man-
Sports Writer Robinson tallied 281 yards and two to-man to take away the passing game.” 
touchdowns through the game’s first 30 Yet 3:41 is more than enough time for 
If winning a football game is a team minutes — adjusting to a player of a college quarterback to march a team effort, Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson’s caliber isn’t exactly a down the field, especially when he has a Robinson produced this season’s most straightforward process. knack for breaking tackles. Robinson convincing counterexample. The sopho-“It’s unfair to replicate [his ability] in rushed for just 17 yards on the final more accounted for 502 of the practice, because it’s not possible,” jun-drive, but exposed the Irish secondary Wolverines’ 532 yards of total offense, ior defensive end Ethan Johnson said. for 55 yards through the air. led his team 72 yards for the game-win-“It’s more challenging with what he does “Obviously if somebody has that many ning drive and muscled his way into the than just somebody trying to imitate yards on you, that’s pretty embarrass-end zone from the 2-yard line for the him.” ing,” senior safety Harrison Smith said. game’s final score. But for much of the second half, the “It’s up to the players to execute, and we 
The verdict on Robinson is clear. Irish defense managed to bring pressure just didn’t do that on every play. We gave Pundits are touting him as the season’s on the mobile quarterback without the up some big plays, and that’s how a team first legitimate Heisman contender. Yet use of the blitz. Despite zero sacks, solid like that will beat you.” for the Notre Dame defense, which limit-penetration from the front three led to While Irish fans are ready to question ed Purdue to just 322 yards of total several rushed throws, and great con-a defense that showed promise in its sea-offense in the season opener, the tainment kept Robinson from breaking son opener, they can take heart in the answers are far less apparent. loose. fact that the stalwarts of the defense 
“We obviously would have liked to have “Our defense really kept us in the ball continued their strong play. tackled better in that last drive,” Irish game, even while we were mucking it Sophomore inside linebackers Manti coach Brian Kelly said. “We had some around on offense there,” Kelly said. Te’o and Carlo Calabrese tallied 26 tack-missed assignments that we had not had. “And other than the last drive, I thought les, and the secondary prevented the So we obviously were fatigued, and it our defense competed.” Wolverines receivers from reaching the might have been just being on the field a Yet the Irish abandoned that strategy end zone in the second half. little bit too long. That’s a great excuse. for the game’s final drive, instead opting “We did good,” Te’o said. “I don’t know We didn’t give them that excuse in the for a defensive package designed to pro-if I can grade anything off a loss. A cou­locker room.” vide additional pressure on both ple of plays we let go, but overall we did 
Kelly’s game plan heading into Robinson and his receivers. good. We’ll fight for four quarters. It Saturday’s contest was simple — limit “Well we brought some edge pressures, doesn’t matter what the score is.” Robinson’s impact on the game, but do and felt like the bubble slant combina­not sacrifice coverage by sending too tion zone is a tough play to defend when Contact Chris Masoud at many extra blitzers to do it. it happens so far out on the perimeter cmasoud@nd.edu 
Despite tough loss, Irish win two recruits 
George, a 6-foot-2, 194-Like father, like son have come down to the final 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

pound athlete, could play at Making his first career two minutes. Four of those 
Sports Editor 

running back or receiver, fit-appearance in an Irish uni-seven — 1980, ’94, ’09 and 
ting a role similar to the role form, junior quarterback ’10 — were decided in the Future gains Percy Harvin fit at Florida in Nate Montana completed final seconds. 
Despite the loss to years past, Irish recruiting eight of 17 pass attempts, Michigan, Notre Dame expert Mike Frank said and rushed for 23 yards on Starting success reportedly earned two before the weekend. four carries. Freshman receiver TJ recruiting commitments from “I think Notre Dame envi-Montana became a part of Jones, who enrolled early in one family. Twins George and sions him in a Percy Harvin the first father-son quarter-the spring, became the first Josh Atkinson committed to role — you put him at wide back tandem in Notre Dame Notre Dame receiver to Notre Dame on Sunday, receiver or running back,” history to complete passes catch a touchdown pass in according to Rivals.com. said Frank, who heads the for the Irish. Joe Montana, each of his first two games. 
The Atkinsons’ official visit online ESPN-affiliate Irish an NFL Hall of Famer, Jones and quarterback continues through Monday, Sports Daily. “The main thing played for Notre Dame from Dayne Crist hooked up for a and their commitments bring is you just want to put the 1975-78. 53-yard score in the third the Irish recruiting class to ball in his hands, because he quarter, the longest score of 18 members already. has the ability to score from Close calls the season for the Irish until 
Josh, a 6-foot, 180-pound anywhere.” Notre Dame and Michigan Crist found tight end Kyle cornerback, long favored Three other four-star should be getting used to Rudolph for a 95-yard Oregon, but the lack of depth recruits were on campus for close games with late lead touchdown in the fourth in the Notre Dame secondary the weekend: safety Wayne changes. Half of their last 20 quarter. could provide him a chance Lyons, defensive end Stephon meetings have been decided to play sooner than at Tuitt and offensive tackle by five points or less, and Contact Douglas Farmer at Oregon. Antonio Richardson. seven of the last 25 games dfarmer1@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
N otre D am e  14  7  0  7  28  
Purdue  7  0  10  7  24  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 0 
Dayne Crist 1-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 
11:19 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 71 yards, 3:41 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 7 
Roy Roundtree 31-yd pass from Denard Robinson (Brendan Gibbons kick) with 8:06 remaining. Drive: 1 play, 31 yards, 0:06 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 14 
Stephen Hopkins 1-yd run (Gibbons kick) with 
1:26 remaining. Drive: 5 play, 65 yards, 1:40 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 21 
Robinson 87-yd run (Gibbons kick) with 1:51 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 98 yards, 1:56 elapsed. 

Third quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan 21 
TJ Jones 53-yd pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 12:42 remaining. Drive: 2 plays, 53 yards, 0:12 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 17, Michigan 21 
Ruffer 24-yd field goal with 8:48 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 66 yards, 2:14 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 21 
Kyle Rudolph 95-yd pass from Crist with 3:41 remaining. Drive: 1 play, 91 yards, 0:34 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 28 
Robinson 2-yd run with 0:27 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 72 yards, 3:14 elapsed. 



statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

Time of Possession 


passing  
Crist  13-25-277  Robinson  24-40-244  
rushing  
Allen Crist Montana  15-94 4-30 4-23  Robinson Smith Shaw Hopkins  28-258 7-17 5-12 1-1  

receiving  
Rudolph  8-164  Odoms  7-91  
Jones  3-73  Roundtree  8-82  
Floyd  5-66  Stonum  4-33  
Riddick  2-39  Shaw  3-28  
Eifert  1-17  Grady  1-7  
Gray  1-13  Smith  1-3  
Allen  1-9  


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 13, 2010 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer 


A familiar story 


Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson racked up 502 yards and three touchdowns, including the game-winner with 
only 27 seconds left, reminding Irish fans of Tate Forcier’s 
heroics a year ago. 
Irish quarterback Dayne Crist missed most of the first half after leading Notre Dame to a touchdown on its opening drive. 
Without Crist, Notre Dame sputtered throughout the 
remainder of the half, until he returned to lead the team to 
another touchdown on the opening drive of the second half. 
Crist finished the day with 277 passing yards 
and two touchdowns. 



GRACE KENESEY/The Observer YUE WU/The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Quarterback Dayne Crist evades the Michigan rush; tight end Kyle Rudolph extends for a pass from Nate Montana; Rudolph races down the sideline on his way to a lead-taking 95-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter; linebacker Manti Te’o makes one of his 13 tackles; receiver Michael Floyd heads up field after pulling in a Crist pass. 





