the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Safety issues arise at Irish Row 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
When the gun initially touched the back of her head on Oct. 29, she thought people were joking around in the spirit of Halloween. 
In reality, she was being robbed at Irish Row Apartments, located just across the street from the east side of Notre Dame campus. 
“I had the door halfway open to Building Three when two guys came up and put a gun to my head,” she said. 
The Notre Dame senior returned home around 3 a.m., according to the student watch alert issued to Notre Dame by Sgt. Pat Hechlinski of the South Bend Police Department (SBPD). The Observer policy is not to release the names of vic­tims of crimes. 
She had previously been at a 
MATTHEW SAAD/The Observer 

A South Bend police car idles outside of the Irish Row apartment complex Monday. A Notre see SAFETY/page 5 Dame student was robbed outside Building Three on Oct. 29. 



Seniors DART for last time 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Monday and Tuesday marked that last DART regis­tration period for the Notre Dame’s Class of 2011. 
Some seniors worried about getting into the classes they needed in order to meet grad­uation requirements, while others looked for fun elec­tives to fill their last semester at Notre Dame. The majority, though, did not find register­ing for requirements difficult. 
Senior Elaine Coldren said she did not face much compe­tition for classes for her upper-level science classes. 
see DART/page 3 


Students explore off-campus housing 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Many sophomore students are beginning to think about an issue that, to many, is far in the future: off-campus housing for senior year. 
With a variety of options such as an apartment at Irish Row, a townhouse in Legacy Village or a house through Kramer Properties or one of the other local land­lords, students are moving fast in order to secure their top choice of homes. 
Dave Kohlsaat, one of the own­ers of Legacy Village, said one reason students sign leases so early is because of the influx of quality homes that are springing up around Notre Dame. 
“This is our second year at Legacy,” Kohlsaat said. “We have a very unique product, brand new, fully-furnished, top-line amenities. When people hear of it, they tend to move sooner.” 
According to Kohlsaat, Legacy Village is completely booked for the 2011-12 school year and he believes it will soon be full for the 2012-13 academic year. 
“We were booked almost a year ago, probably by last December 1 [for the 2011-12 school year],” Kohlsaat said. “For the sopho­mores, I am 40 percent leased right now and I would again pre­sume that probably no later than Christmas I will be fully booked.” 
Sophomore Lisa Daul said stu­dents should start thinking about living off-campus depending on where he or she wants to live. 
“At first we wanted to live in a house, so we started looking at properties earlier this year,” Daul said. “We heard that the good houses are the first things to go. But now we’re leaning toward a town home in Lafayette [Square], so we figure we have a little more time.” 
Mark Kramer, owner of Kramer Properties, which includes and assortment of living options including houses and Lafayette Square, said his statistics reveal the same information. 
“The houses we have are 80 percent leased for next year,” Kramer said. “For Lafayette we’re about 40 percent leased for next year, so there’s still a lot available, but that’s normal.” 
Kramer said 12 of his houses have already been leased for the 2012-2013 school year, but Lafayette and the apartments both won’t be pre-leased until much later. 
“Usually houses are the first 
see HOUSING/page 3 



Transpo ridership declines 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
After a recent decrease in student use of the free Transpo weekend bus service, student government is explor­ing ways to promote the 7A route and encourage rider­ship, Student Senate Off-Campus Concerns chair Emily LeStrange said. 
“The biggest issue with the route is inconsistency in rider­ship,” LeStrange said. “One weekend in September, 237 people rode Transpo, but the next weekend only 23 used it. We usually average 150 stu­dents per weekend, though.” 

LeStrange said her commit­tee is working to determine the reason for the inconsisten­cy. She said they are also developing new methods of promotion so the student body is more aware of the route. 
LeStrange said “Whine Week,” in which students could air complaints to stu­dent government, last week revealed that many members of the student body are not familiar with the Transpo sys­tem. 
“Whine Week showed us that people don’t know that much about the 7A Route, so we’re going to increase our promotional efforts in order to boost ridership each week­end,” she said. “We want all students to know about the service and how it works, largely because it’s a safe, free and reliable way of getting where you want to go on Friday and Saturday nights.” 
According to LeStrange, 283 students rode the Transpo this past weekend. 
“We revamped the Transpo 7A wallet card so that it is easier to read and we included the updated schedule on the back of the card,” she said. “We’re still working on getting 
see TRANSPO/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC hosts book fair page 4  Cult at Club Fever page 8  Women’s volleyball starts Big East tournament page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday November 17, 2010 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ANIMAL WOULD YOU CHOOSE TO BRING TO HO WARTS WITH YOU?
THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Molly Madden Mike Gotimer Alicia Smith Chris Allen Melissa Flanagan Matthew DeFrouks 

Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gamble 

Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Patricia Fernandez 


OFFBEAT 
Man charged with theft for swallowing mom’s rings 
WASHINGTON — Police in a southwestern Pennsylvania township said they've recov­ered one of two rings a man swallowed after he allegedly stole them from his mother 
— and are waiting for his digestive system to produce the other. 
Fifty-three-year-old Robert Spriggs was charged with theft for allegedly stealing the rings, each valued at $30,000, while visiting his 81-year-old mother on Saturday in North Strabane Township. 
Police said Spriggs swal­lowed one he had in his pocket during questioning. Police said he has previously swallowed the other ring. 

Stephanie Lovell  Dominic Lucero  Alison Podlaski  Holden Lombard  Emerald Woodberry  
junior  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Walsh  Sorin  Ryan  O’Neill  Badin  

“Platypus.” “Goldfish.” “Toad.” “Naked mole “Flying rat.” squirrel.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Spriggs is in the Washington County Jail in a cell without a flushable toi­let. Police said they had recovered one ring Monday, but it wasn't immediately clear if they had found the other. Online court records don't list an attorney for Spriggs. 
Police called to N.Y. kids’ cupcake sale 
CHAPPAQUA — Some par­ents in a New York City sub­urb are upset because a local politician called police on two 13-year-old boys for selling cupcakes and other baked goods without a per­mit. 
The Journal News in Westchester County reported Monday that New Castle Councilman Michael Wolfensohn had called police last month on the boys. 
Andrew DeMarchis and Kevin Graff had a brisk busi­ness selling cupcakes, cook­ies, brownies and Rice Krispie treats in a Chappaqua (CHAP'-uh­kwah) park. 
Kevin's mother, Laura Graff, says the teens are “good kids” who were scared by the police call. She said Monday they haven't set up shop anywhere since. 
Wolfensohn says rules are rules. But he concedes call­ing the police might have been a half-baked decision. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
An Interdisciplinary Workshop on Chinese Culture and Society will meet today at 1 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies in Room C102. The meeting is open to all faculty and gradu­ate students who are interest­ed in topics pertaining to Chinese culture and society. 
Driehaus Prize Winner Rafael Manzano Martos will give the lecture “Mudejar Architecture: Balance Between East and West” today at 4:30 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. A reception will follow in the Bond Hall Gallery. 
eND Hunger is sponsoring a rally today at 5 p.m. at Field House Mall. The rally will con­clude the Holy Cross Harvest campus-wide food drive. There will be a raffle for 2 tickets to the midnight show­ing of Harry Potter. All those who bring a non-perishable food item to donate are eligi­ble to win. 
The next installment of the “Discussions on Development Series” will take place today at 7 p.m. Today’s discussion is titled “Microfinance, Entrepreneurship, and Fair Trade” and will be in Greenfield’s International Cafe in the Hesburgh Center. 
Notre Dame Food Services Chef Miller will host an inter­national cooking class in the Test Kitchen of North Dining Hall. The class will take place Thursday at 5 p.m. Students must preregister for this event in 204 LaFortune. The cost is $5 and space is limited. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 



CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


53 45 HIGH 4754 5057
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


35 35 LOW 2934 3541 







Wednesday, November 17, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Housing 
continued from page 1 

thing to go, then the townhouses come in second, then the apart­ments a little later,” Kramer said. 
Sophomore Mike Cochran made his move early in the year to ensure that he would be able to lease the house of his choice. 
“I signed my lease for senior year the first week of October,” Cochran said. “I wanted to get one of the best off-campus hous­es.” 
Cochran, who currently lives off campus, said although he misses the day-to-day interaction with a lot of people in the dorms, he is happy with his decision. 
“There’s a lot more freedom and customization of your living,” Cochran said. “What is most appealing to me is having my own room. It provides me with the necessary privacy to sleep and do my work without being dis­turbed.” 
The desire for fewer rules is a dominant theme among students who live or plan to live off cam­pus. Chrissie Gotimer, a senior currently living in a house, said that freedom was a considerable factor for her and her friends. 
“I moved off campus because most of my friends, including myself, wanted to move off,” Gotimer said. “We anticipated wanting a change of scenery from the dorms and a little more free­dom.” 
Niall Fitzgerald, a junior who signed a lease as a sophomore to live in Legacy Village for the 2011-12 academic year, shared sentiments similar to those expressed by Cochran and Gotimer. 
“While I enjoy life in Dillon Hall, as a 21-year-old senior next year I do not wish to be bound by many of the rules associated with living in the dorms,” Fitzgerald said. 
While some students believe liv­ing off campus may cause a sense of detachment from Notre Dame, Gotimer said she feels her experi­ence enabled her to connect with the University in different ways. 
“I’ve found that moving off cam­pus has heightened my apprecia­tion of campus,” she said. “It’s forced me to utilize many of the resources on campus that I other­wise would have likely never con­sidered using.” 
The real downside for Gotimer was the addition of many new responsibilities. 
“I have to be more aware of my surroundings and be responsible for not violating my housing con­tract,” Gotimer said. “I have to be very aware that I lock my car and house every day when I leave for class. Furthermore, I have to be responsible for paying all my bills on time.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 




DART 
continued from page 1 

Another senior, Caitlin Sullivan, said it was her desired classes, rather than the required classes, that were hard for her to get. 
“I don’t know if we’re hav­ing trouble getting classes that we need to graduate,” Sullivan said. “But I know some people are having trou­ble getting the classes they wanted.” 
Other students, however, decided to forgo taking the classes they wanted in order to save money. Choosing to become a part-time student for the final semester, such as Coldren did, saved seniors money on their tuition. 
“Part-time students pay by credit, and to be a part-time student, you need under 12 [credits]. I’ll be taking eight next semester,” she said. “I’m still technically a Notre Dame student, even though I’ll be taking less classes.” 
For Coldren, this academic time will be replaced by job and graduate university applications. Coldren said while taking her final pairs of classes and labs, she applied to 16 different schools. 
“How much time the appli­cations take depends on where I could be traveling. It might be twice a month but hopefully not that much,” Coldren said. “Most people though, apply between 14 and 16.” 
Coldren said she wished she could stay as a full-time stu­dent. 
“I like to learn so I would enjoy getting to take the extra elective classes,” she said. “But in terms of finances, it’s cheaper for my family if I’m part-time.” 
In general, seniors reported feeling less stressed academi­cally about their last semes­ter. 
“I think that the last semes­ter for seniors is more laid back,” Coldren said. “There’s a lot less to do.” 
However, many other sen­iors find the academic burden is replaced by the weight of finding a job or applying to graduate school. Sullivan said her final semester would only be less stressful in terms of academics. 
While the senior class DARTed for the final time, the freshman class just began to register on their own and many have found the registra­tion process less confusing than they originally thought. 
Freshman Catherine O’Donnell said she wasn’t very worried about register­ing and she doesn’t believe she will encounter much trou­ble getting into the necessary classes. 
“I mean, no one wants to end up with a bum schedule, but it should end up all right,” she said. “There are some [classes] that I need for major requirements, but they’re still the really big lec­ture classes.” 
Many freshmen arranged for individual meetings with their advisors in the weeks leading up to registration. 
“I spoke with my advisor,” freshman Daniel Kokotajlo said. “We mostly talked about politics and my philosophy major.” 
After one semester at Notre Dame, O’Donnell said she felt she was well-prepared to reg­ister for the Spring. 
“You have a better handle on classes,” she said. “Plus, you realize just how much you don’t want 8:30 classes.” 
Registration can be a stress­ful experience for students of all years, but many freshman said they don’t have too many concerns. 
“There are more than enough classes I’m interested in, so if I don’t get my top choices I’ll be fine,” Kokotajlo said. “[My DART time] is on the second day, but it’s early in the morning, so I suppose that’s average.” 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 17, 2010 

College hosts book fair to benefit Learning Tree 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Usborne Books, a supplier of educational materials, and the Learning Tree, a resource education center that benefits Saint Mary’s students and fac­ulty as well as teachers and parents in the Michiana com­munity, co-sponsored a book fair, which began Tuesday at the College. 
The fair will continue today from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. in the Student Center Atrium. 
The selection of books cov­ers a wide range of topics including history, science and fictional stories as well as activity and learning books. 
There are books for a vari­ety of ages and the selection is quite diverse, Usborne con­sultant Karen Richards said. 
All of the ects and to be used when they are student teaching. Students who tutor at local schools in the community are also available to check out books. 
Bartzen said she believes the center is a valuable resource. 
“The Learning Tree has all the resources and more that I need for my field placement,” Bartzen said. “Jayne Fogle has all the teacher manuals, workbooks, and activities for us to refer to when creating units and plans. Also with the Ellison cutters and hundreds of cut outs the variety for projects and displays is end­less.” 
While the Learning Tree is mainly focused on education majors at Saint Mary’s, other College students and teachers from the South Bend School dis-

books sold at trict come to 
“The Learning Tree has 
the fair are the center 
all the resources and
published by for learning Usborne more that I need for my materials, Books, a com-field placement.” Fogle said. 
pany founded T h e in England Learning
Natalie Bartzen 
that has been Tree sells a a presence in junior myriad of the United Saint Mary’s College learning 
States for the past 20 years. 
Usborne books are published in 71 lan­guages. Due to their interna­tional audience, Usborne books tend to be culturally neutral, Richards said. 
Richards, a former teacher, is an advocate for Usborne published books because of their educational value and good quality. 
The books are commercial free — they contain no refer­ences to movies, television shows, or toy brands — and they are both fun and educa­tional, she said. 
Usborne Books will donate 50 percent of all sales from the book fair at the College in the form of free books to the Learning Tree. 
Jayne Fogle, director of the Learning Tree, said last year’s book fair “turned out very nicely” for the center. 
“Last year’s [book fair] was very successful and we received a very nice selection of books,” she said. 
Fogle said the book fair was planned before Christmas due to the hectic nature that comes with the end of the aca­demic semester. 
She said she hopes students will be able to purchase books as Christmas gifts and that education majors at the College will be able to buy materials for some of their classes. 
Though she has not yet pur­chased anything from the book fair, Elementary Education major Natalie Bartzen hopes she will be able to benefit from the fair’s selection in the future. 
“I really like that we are able to have something like this on campus,” Bartzen said. “It is hard to know what to buy considering I do not know the grade level I will be teach­ing next year, but I know that it will be a great resource for when I do.” 
Education students at Saint Mary’s are able to check out the books at the Learning Tree to help with their class proj­materials 
includi ng 
educational games that focus on science, math, and language arts and other educational supplies. Most of the materials are geared towards students rang­ing from preschool to sixth grade. 
The Learning Tree may charge for their services and supplies, but Fogle said this is not to make a profit. 
“We charge for everything because we do not have a budget,” she said. “However, the prices are reasonable as they are only used to replen­ish the materials.” 
The Learning Tree is open noon to 5 p.m. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in 251 Madaleva Hall. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 






SMC celebrates ‘Potter’ 
By MIRANDA PERETTI 
News Writer 
As many students await Friday’s release of latest Harry Potter movie, “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, ” Saint Mary ’s geared up with its own cele­bration entitled “Bellakazam.” 
The night included lessons in Quidditch, the popular sport in the series that is played on brooms, a Harry Potter themed dinner, a magic show and a viewing of 
the film ver­sion of “Harry Potter and the Ha lf -Blood Prince.” 
The Student Activities Board, Resid ence Hall Association and Quidditch Club spon ­sored the event. 
“Seeing everyone out here playing 

up to my room and watch all The candle -lit dinner six Harry Potter movies,” included long tables, such as sophomore Kristen Rice said. those in the movie, and ban-The Quidditch Club hosted ners to represent each resi­
lessons on the library green and gave away scarves to the students who participated. The scarves were themed after the Saint Mary’s dorm buildings. 
Many Harry Potter enthusi­asts engaged in 
“Seeing everyone out here playing Quidditch makes me want to go back to my room and watch all six Harry Potter movies” 
Kristen Rice sophomore Saint Mary’s College 
the various 

Quidditch games and broom races. Following the lessons, stu ­dents were invited to a “Great Hall” themed dinner in the Noble Family dining hall. 
“The dining hall was well decorated and it got me excit-
Quidditch ed for the movie,” sopho­
makes me want to go back more Kerry Stewart said. 

“The dining hall was well decorated and it got me excited for the movie.” 
Kerry Stewart sophomore Saint Mary’s College 
dence hall of Saint Mary’s. Students could also make choco ­late dipped pretzel wands themed for dessert. 
“I really liked making the chocolate pretze wands,” soph­
omore Erika Wallace said. “However, I wish there were more Harry Potter themed foods.” 
After dinner, Magician Norman Ng put on a magic show in Carroll Auditorium. 
Overall, Bellakazam tried to bring a little bit of Hogwarts to the College campus while giving Harry Potter fans a chance to gear up for the release of the “Deathly Hallows, ” and express their love for the Harry Potter series. 

Contact Miranda Peretti at mperet01@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, November 17, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Safety 
continued from page 1 
Halloween celebration before the cab dropped her off in the parking lot near her building. 
The victim said the distance from the parking lot to the building could typically be cov­ered in a 30-second walk. 
She said the two suspects started to pull her away from the building after approaching her from behind. 
She fought back, but one of the suspects struck her with a gun, according to the student watch alert. 
During the struggle, the vic­tim’s purse strap broke. The suspects left with her purse, she said. 
After the suspects left, two students found the victim and called emergency services. The victim received medical and police assistance within 10 minutes. 
The victim was sent to the hospital, where she received treatment and was released the next day. 
Another robbery occurred on South Bend Avenue on the same night. The student said she believes the suspects from that robbery are the same one that assailed her. 
The student watch alerts list­ed the suspects for both rob­beries as African-American males, between the ages of 16 and 25, dressed in black and armed with handguns. 
“I never felt unsafe before,” she said. “Part of the reason I moved [to Irish Row] is because it has a reputation for safety.” 

The Oct. 29 event would not be her last encounter with criminal activity at Irish Row. 
On Nov. 9, she witnessed car vandalism in the parking lot near her building. 
“I wasn’t sleeping well and I heard noises,” she said. 
She looked out of her window and saw someone breaking car windows in the parking lot. She called the police, but the security problems that have occurred in the two years since Irish Row opened. 
The student watch alerts said three criminal incidents have occurred at Irish Row in the last month, including the rob­bery, vehicle vandalism and a bicycle theft. 
Irish Row resident James Schwarber, a Notre Dame sen­
ior, said students 
should be more 

suspects fled the scene prior to the arrival of  “I never felt unsafe before. Part of the  cautious. “South Bend does have a lot  
the authorities. “It’s fairly u n a c c e p t a b l e for how much  reason I moved [to Irish Row] is because it has a reputation  of crime,” Schwarber said. “We’re still sub­jected to the  
we pay to not feel safe,” she  for safety.”  same risks.”  sort  of  
said. Students pay around $445  victim of robbery senior  S c h w a r b e r said the entrances to the  

dollars per month if they are splitting a three-bedroom apartment in Irish Row, or $700 per month if they are splitting a two-bedroom apart­ment, according to RentND, an off-campus website run by the student government. 
“If something happens like [robbery], your security shouldn’t allow a car break in a week and a half later,” she said. 
Tom Troeger, one of the own­ers of Irish Row and Irish Crossings, the neighboring town home complex, said the apartments have multiple security features including cameras and security lights. 
“We’re very proud with our security we offer,” he said. “We’ve been lucky with it.” 
Troeger said these recent events were the only notable Irish Row build­
ings are locked and secure, but the location of Building Three and the parking lot can be safety risks. 
“Building Three is set back from the street,” he said. “The parking lot can’t be seen from the street – you can’t see what is going on.” 
Schwarber said he thinks the management has handled the incidents well. 
“They seem to be pretty responsive,” he said. “I can’t think of any more they could do.” 
Irish Row resident and Notre Dame senior Dillon Bailey said the security problems arise on the trips to and from the apart­ment buildings. 
“People are trying to find rides,” he said. “They don’t want to be on foot or on a bicy­cle.” 
Bailey said he believes the number of incidents will lessen when the colder weather sets in. 
“It’s almost always a crime of convenience,” he said. “As soon as you take away the con­venience factor, they won’t go out of their way.” 
Bailey said he and other resi­dents saw the outside door to Building Three could be easily pulled open until a about week ago. 
“It took months to take care of,” he said. 
Troeger said he was not aware of this problem. 
“If there was a problem and we were aware of it, then we would be out there,” he said. 
Bailey said he and other resi­dents have seen a police car parked near the apartments and the parking lot for the past several days. 
“It has definitely helped everyone feel a bit safer,” he said. 
Sgt. Hechlinski said SBPD officers are told at the begin­ning of their shift the location of events such as robbery and car vandalism. 
“They make extra efforts to patrol these areas,” he said. “There is still a dedicated beat car for that area.” 
Hechlinski said the best way for students to stay safe is to be cautious and to use common sense. 
“If students see something, don’t be afraid to call the police department,” he said. “Don’t be afraid to call us to investigate it. We appreciate those calls.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 



Transpo 
continued from page 1 
the word out about the route to freshman who may be unfa­miliar with the service, too.” 
LeStrange said her commit­tee is working with the Campus Technology Committee and Off-Campus Council to explore the possibility of implementing a real-time Transpo GPS tracking system. 
“Students could use the tracking system to find out where the bus is on its route by downloading an app on smart phones like iPhones, Blackberries or Droids,” she said. “Similar services are available at Boston College, Auburn and Emory, and they have been widely popular.” 
LeStrange said student gov­ernment’s foremost concern is the safety of the students. 
“The Transpo 7A route is an awesome resource for students on Friday and Saturday nights,” she said. “It provides a free mode of transportation and, more importantly, it pro­vides a safe way of getting where you want to go without having to walk through dan­gerous areas at night.” 
LeStrange said Student Government pays $15,000 a year for the weekend bus serv­ice, but viewed the expense as a way of ensuring student safe­ty, LeStrange said. 
“It provides students with a reliable option of transporta­tion that is fast and free,” she said. 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, November 17, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

My Senior Day experience 

A few weeks ago my friend under­went surgery that kept him tem­porarily bedridden at St. Liam’s Hall, the University Health Services building. When I visited him at his luxury pad on the second floor Blair Chemidlin (no sarcasm here 
— the rooms are 

G raphics 
nice) I bragged 
Editor 

to him about my impeccable health record. It’s true — since the day I was born, I haven’t been to a hospital or any emergency health center on my own account. No bro­ken bones, stitches, surgeries or serious illnesses. 
Apparently I spoke too soon because this past weekend I found myself just sick enough to warrant an unforeseen trip to St. Liam’s Hall. Luckily for me (unluckily for them), my parents were in town for the game, so I benefitted from their care and concern. 
By 4:30 a.m. on Saturday morning 
— game day — after being sick with a fever for several hours, my par­ents decided to take me to the health center. 
Off to the health center we went. Once inside, the nurses treated me as if I was their own sick child. They made me feel completely at home, putting me up in a comfort­able room, caring for me and encouraging me to ring them at any time. 
Several hours later, I felt immensely better after some sleep. My room was so quiet that it was almost easy to forget how noisy the campus below me must have been as tens of thousands of fans gath­ered for the Utah game. 
While much of my senior class was out enjoying kegs and eggs for breakfast, I was nibbling on Saltine crackers and chasing them with tiny sips of Gatorade. It was impos­sible to be in a bad mood though, with such cheery nurses waiting on my every need. 
My new friends at the health cen­ter fixed me up so well that although I wasn’t able to partici­pate in any tailgating festivities, cheers at the game, or post-game rushing of the field, I was able to join my senior classmates at Finnies that night and enjoy a cele­bratory ginger ale. 
If you have never experienced a stay at the health center, I advise you to get sick right now, or at least pretend to be. Pull a Ferris Bueller and instead of romping around Chicago, enjoy a lazy day of room service in St. Liam’s in the company of some of the nicest people around. 
Okay, okay, I take it back. Stay healthy! But if you ever do feel really ill, don’t hesitate to visit St. Liam’s. 
As great as the health center is, you never know when you might miss out on something exciting. Like horses showing up, uninvited, to your tailgate and ushering you out of the parking lot, toward the stadium entrance. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Blair Chemidlin at bchemidl@nd.edu 

The silent intellectuals 
What defines an intellectual? Popular culture would conjure images of bespec­tacled professors talking Renaissance art, ancient literature and economic philoso­phy in the same breath. This image has remained static for a long time — Edward A. as fitting in 1810 Larkin as 2010. The question thus aris-Scientifc es as to whether it N otation is relevant in the 21st century. Jonathan Coravos, a student at Bowdoin College, in his article “Defining Modern Intellectualism,” refutes the charge that Bowdoin students lack intellectualism. Interestingly, this claim has sometimes been levied against Notre Dame students as well. Initially, one might come up with many reasons why Notre Dame students are viewed as lacking intellectual vigor. Sports are a major part of the culture at Notre Dame, and the football program is arguably the most visible aspect of the University at any given time. Also, the fact that Notre Dame is a Catholic institu­tion may lead outsiders to assume that Notre Dame students lack the questioning spirit that often accompanies intellectual curiosity. However, Bowdoin students have also been charged as lacking intel­lectualism, so major sports and religious affiliation can’t be the whole story. Also, the criticism is oftentimes levied within the Notre Dame community itself. So, is the problem (as Coravos argues) due to the antiquated notion of intellectualism, or are modern students indeed intellectu­ally lacking? 
Intellectualism, in a broad sense, involves an embrace of learning and the life of the mind. This embrace is not sim­ply cursory — it involves enjoying learn­ing for learning’s sake, and actively seek­ing it out. A close analysis of the modern age reveals that common notions of intel­lectualism are indeed in need of major changes. First of all, our idea of an “intel­lectual” is firmly rooted within the tradi­tion of the humanities. Centuries ago, when science was on much more unsta­ble footing than it currently is, this defini­tion was understandable. However, in the modern era, science is an exhilarating area in which to focus one’s fundamental curiosities about the way the world 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 
works. Indeed, many of the great ancient Greek philosophers were actually aspir­ing scientists, and while their explana­tions of the movements of the heavens fall short of our modern standards, they certainly found science to be within the intellectual tradition. 
While science today is much more spe­cialized and less understandable to the uninitiated, the exploratory spirit that is present in the act of original research is as much an intellectual quest as ruminat­ing on the works of Milton or Chaucer. Given such specialization of knowledge in the modern world, the idea of intellectu­alism could benefit from being defined more vertically than horizontally — knowing a lot about a few things, rather than a lot about a lot of things. The amount of knowledge in the world makes the latter almost impossible, whereas it was completely attainable centuries ago. Many students do research here at Notre Dame. This is certainly a valid intellectual endeavor, while not traditionally con­ceived as such. 
As Coravos points out, our methods of engaging the world have changed drasti­cally in the last century. Learning used to be a much more interpersonal endeavor — other people were often a fundamental source of information. This isn’t neces­sary anymore — if you want to satiate academic curiosities or learn for learn­ing’s sake, you can easily do it on the Internet. Gone are the days of Socrates, when men talked philosophy at dinner parties. Even the physical act of going to the library to research topics can be done easily in a dorm room with a computer and a WiFi connection. It is quite possible that intellectuals haven’t become extinct; they’ve simply become invisible. This silent intellectualism was enabled initially by the printing press, but it has rapidly expanded with the onset of the Internet. The most efficient way of learning, ques­tioning and communicating is now an online experience. 
Thus, the problem appears to be with the definition itself, rather than students being fundamentally uncurious. However, the idea that we are disengaged does contain some truth — and it is a major problem for our generation. Back in 2007, Tom Friedman labeled us “Generation Q” — the quiet generation. 

The type of communication that once defined public intellectual activism now takes place on blogs, internet forums and Facebook. Someone could theoretically be engaged in all sorts of intellectual pur­suits without ever leaving their room or speaking a word. The world needs lead­ers and bold thinkers to convert ideas into the reality; people who are willing to engage the world on the outside to affect change. 
This task may be difficult from our gen­eration — translating our learning, our debates, our ideas and our passions from the cool liquid of the Internet into the world at large. David Brooks of the New York Times wrote a column a few months ago lamenting the fact that while the world among college students has become more meritocratic, there is a greater feeling of institutionalization — everyone wants to stay inside the neatly defined lines rather than boldly venturing out. We are all great at getting A’s, but when was the last time you saw a student really grill a professor in class? I see this as a symptom of our predicament -we don’t lack ideas; we simply aren’t as con­fident showing them in a world where it is seemingly not necessary. 
College students today are intellectual when viewed through a more appropriate modern prism (though few of us could meet the high bar Urbandictionary.com sets for an intellectual: someone who has found something more interesting in life than sex and alcohol). However, the fact that we are intellectual isn’t enough. We need to translate this intellectualism into productive outlets in the real world. The changing nature of information gathering has made it much easier to maintain an insulated intellectualism. The challenge of our generation is maintaining the dynamic and crusading spirit of previous great generations in order to espouse the ideas of our time, despite the increasing ease with which we can slip into the silence. 
Edward A. Larkin is a senior with a double major in Biological Sciences and Classical Civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“To be great is to bemisunderstood.” 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
U.S. poet 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Man invented language to satisfyhis deep need to complain.” 
Lily Tomlin
U.S. actress 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 16, 2010 page 7 
Living up to the “Spirit of Inclusion” at ND 
Acceptance comes from both the top down and at the individual level. To truly create a spirit of inclusion at Notre Dame, there are things that both students and the administration can do. The adminis­tration must add “sexual orienta-
Alex Coccia
tion” to the nondis­crimination clause. True, these are Shard of Glass just words. But words send a pow­erful message. Certainly the University does not condone violence or harassment towards gay, lesbian or transgendered students, but the lack of “sexual orienta­tion” in the nondiscrimination clause seems inconsistent with these beliefs. Second, the University should begin a course selection on Queer Studies. Queer Studies would enable the students of Notre Dame to educate themselves further about the nature of homosexuality, would provide the administration a forum to thoroughly teach the Church’s position on homosexuality, and it would enable stu­dents to decide for themselves their opin­ion after being thoroughly taught about the issue. Third, students can become active in the CORE Council on campus. Heterosexual students can become Allies, standing up for the rights of their fellow students. 
This year, the students of Notre Dame have another opportunity to stand for the dignity and respect due to all persons, including gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgendered students. This opportunity is presented in fighting for “sexual orien­tation” to be added to the nondiscrimina­tion clause. When shirts were worn last year saying, “Gay? Fine by me,” oppo­nents wore shirts saying, “Gay? Go to Hell.” The University quickly responded saying that it did not tolerate such a hor­rific remark. However, when it came time for the petition for “sexual orientation” to be included in the nondiscrimination clause, the University rejected it. One wonders if these T-shirts would have been made had the phrase already been includ­ed. 
The petition for “sexual orientation” to be added to the nondiscrimination clause is nothing new. The Officers of the University issued a letter to the Notre Dame community on Aug. 27, 1997, addressing the issue and laying out the University’s reasoning for not adding “sex­ual orientation” to the nondiscrimination clause: 
1. 
“The church distinguishes between homosexuality as an orientation and sexu­al activity between homosexual persons. The church teaches that homosexual ori­entation in a person is neither sinful nor evil. The call of the gospels is a call to inclusiveness.” 

2. 
“The Church also teaches that all people, regardless of their sexual orienta­tion, are called to live chaste lives in accordance with their vocations ... Neither heterosexual union outside the permanent bond of marriage nor homosexual union is morally acceptable.” 

3. 
“We deplore harassment of any kind as antithetical to the nature of this com­munity as a Christian community. Our dis­criminatory harassment policy specifically precludes harassment based on sexual orientation.” 

4. 
“The University exists, however, with­in a social and cultural milieu that does not always accept gospel values as norma­tive ... Within society at large, the phrase “sexual orientation” sometimes becomes a term that does not admit of distinction between sexual orientation and the man­ner in which people live out their sexual orientation — a distinction that is critical to us as a Catholic institution.” 

5. 
“Institutional nondiscriminating clauses are highly stylized statements which are legally binding. Neither federal nor state law mandates that sexual orien­tation be included in nondiscrimination clauses. Thus, like a number of other institutions, our clause does not currently include sexual orientation.” 

6. 
“After considerable reflection, we have decided not to add sexual orientation to our legal nondiscrimination clause. To make the change requested would mean that our decisions in this area would be measured by civil courts that may inter­pret this change through the lens of the broader social milieu in which we live. This, in turn, might jeopardize our ability to make decisions that we believe neces­sary to support Church teaching. We wish to continue to speak to this issue in the Catholic content that is normative for this community.” 


The main argument that the University 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



To that guy who resorts to snarky letters 
To that Guy who Resorts to Snarky Letters in The Observer, (“You know who you are” Nov. 16), rather than actually talking to a girl: 
Why yes, I do know who I am. How astute of you to make that deduction. 
Mr. Kachadoorian, I am disappointed in you. Have you really been in line behind me four times? Why did you not, at any previ­ous time, speak up and say, “Excuse me, I seem to lack the ability to go around you so could you perhaps let me pass?” I would have happily moved aside for you. 
Mr. Kachadoorian, it is your conduct that is unacceptable. While others respect the dignity of students who dislike paper-thin carrot shavings and instead choose the large ones, you literally stand there making snide comments in your head and ignore the fact that some of us would rather choose exactly what we would like to eat rather than scoop piles of carrots into our bowls and throw away the ones that we find disagreeable. Shouldn’t we all do our part to diminish the amount of waste the dining hall produces? 
I sincerely doubt that your rage is uncon­trollable, just as I doubt that I’ve impaired an otherwise pleasurable dining experience for hundreds of hungry students. Also, it certainly does not take me five minutes to fill a bowl with carrots. Hyperbole is unbe­coming in an argument, so please forgive me if I disregard your letter and proudly continue to choose my carrots as I please. I refuse to stand aside as a silent victim of your rude, thoughtless crime against a harmless, friendly girl who simply doesn’t like puny carrots. 
Haste makes waste, take time to smell the roses, you could always just go around me, etc. And please, Mr. Kachadoorian, if you truly didn’t want to resort to The Observer, you would have regarded common courtesy and said something to me first rather than making a spectacle of the situation. At five foot two, I’m hardly intimidating. 
In Notre Dame, 
That Carrot Girl, a.k.a. Kiely King 
Kiely King 
junior off campus Nov. 11 
makes for not including “sexual orienta­tion” in the legal nondiscrimination clause is that while the Church distinguishes between sexual orientation and sexual conduct, the rest of the American public would not limit the language of “sexual orientation” to excluding sexual conduct. For this reason, the University cannot include the phrase because it could com­promise their “ability to make decisions... necessary to support Church teaching.” First, along with adding sexual orientation to the nondiscrimination clause, the University has the power to make clear that it is distinguishing between sexual orientation and sexual conduct. If it is thus distinguished in the University’s legal statement, then it will be clear upon inter­pretation by the courts. Instead of protect­ing its own ability to make decisions by coupling its interpretation of sexual orien­tation to the nondiscrimination statement, the University fails to extend its protection uniformly by excluding gay members of the community. Notre Dame specifies that a number of institutions do not include the phrase in their nondiscrimination clauses. This is true, but many also have added it since 1997. 22 of the 28 Jesuit Universities in the United States include sexual orientation in their nondiscrimina­tion clauses. These schools include Wheeling Jesuit, Loyola University of Chicago, John Carroll, Fordham University, Duquesne University and Boston College. After reading these schools’ nondiscrimination clauses, and then turning one’s attention to Notre Dame’s, the omission of “sexual orienta­tion” is obvious. 
While the distinction between sexual orientation and sexual conduct is critical to Notre Dame as a Catholic institution, the University, by not including sexual ori­entation in the nondiscrimination clause, itself does not distinguish between the two phrases. Instead, it errs on the side of dis­crimination against members of the gay community because it fears that the rest of the American community will not dis­tinguish. However, if the University advo­cates that all sexual activity must be abstained from until marriage, and enforces this via parietals and educational programs on campus, then adding sexual orientation to the nondiscrimination clause will not be a problem for the 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

University with respect to distinguishing on campus between sexual orientation and sexual activity. It would appear then, that the University is in fact not changing the nondiscrimination clause for fear of what the outside community will think; however, Lance Gallop said it well in his letter to The Observer, “There but for the grace of God go I (Oct. 11)”: “[Gay mem­bers of the community] need a University which is brave enough to say, ‘It doesn’t matter if our donors or our trustees walk away because we choose to accept you. If we lose money and power and prestige because of you, we do not care. We love you more than this.’” 
With the increase and prominence of teen suicides of people thought to be gay, there has come an increased focus on bul­lying based on sexual orientation. What happened at Rutgers University to Tyler Clementi could happen to someone at the University of Notre Dame. Rutgers was just about to implement workshops as a part of Project Civility, to teach students to be tolerant and accepting of others. Notre Dame cannot stand idly and pretend that this could not happen at the University. Rutgers has the right idea. They already have “sexual orientation” in the nondis­crimination clause, and the planned Project Civility is a great idea. Notre Dame is behind in this respect. Adding “sexual orientation” to the nondiscrimination clause is the first step. 
In 1997, the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops published the pastoral letter, “Always our Children.” Addressed to par­ents and pastors of homosexual children, the letter read in part: “First, don’t break off contact; don’t reject your child. … Your child may need you and the family now more than ever. He or she is still the same person. This child, who has always been God’s gift to you, may now be the cause of another gift: your family becoming more honest, respectful, and supportive.” It is time the University of Notre Dame became more honest, respectful and supportive of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered members of its family. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 




Scene

page 8 Wednesday, November 17, 2010 

The Observer 


Scene

Wednesday, November 17, 2010 page 9 

By ROSS FINNEY 
Scene Writer 

In more than 30 years in the music business, John Mellencamp has learned how to work a crowd. With plenty of charm, and more than a couple good jokes, the native Hoosier had the packed audience in the palm of his hand Saturday at his excellent perform­ance at the Morris Performing Arts Center. 
There was plenty of love for Indiana’s biggest rock ‘n’ roll star, and the Morris, which can seem a little stuffy, didn’t sti­fle the enthusiasm or the fun. More than a few moms rocked out, many right in front the stage, dancing and having a fantastic time. The booze was flowing, everyone clapped and sang along when they could, and one man even ran through the aisles with a John Mellencamp flag. 
The show began with his band playing mostly acoustic instruments, and Mellencamp did a run-through of songs largely culled from his most recent albums “No Better than This” and 2008’s “Life, Death, Love and Freedom.” 
He started out with his classic, “The Authority Song,” which he gave a bit of a rockabilly flavor that suited the song very well and really primed the audi­ence. After that he broke into the new song, “Nobody Cares About Me,” which was upbeat and amusing. 
Later in the set, he covered Son House’s blues song “Death Letter” to which Mellencamp’s voice was surpris­ingly suited. Guitarist Andy York provid­ed slide guitar, which was amazingly dark and moody. The song highlighted Mellencamp’s great talent for channel­ing the more traditional styles of music that have so heavily influenced his last two albums. 
Mellencamp told the audience about his interaction with a fan right before the show, when the fan asked him if he was playing the old favorites. To that Mellencamp jokingly said he tried to look ahead most of the time, but he just might make a promise to play one or two songs. He then went into an a cap­pella solo version of the favorite “Cherry Bomb,” to which the audience knew every word. 
The mostly solo acoustic set followed, the highlight of which may have been his great song “Jackie Brown.” He was joined by violinist Miriam Strum, whose playing added a new depth and striking­ly sad quality to what is already a rather bleak song, and it was spectacu­lar. Throughout the night, Strum’s violin added rich texture to the arrangements, and gave the whole performance a very likable rootsy feel. 
“Jack and Diane” may have been the most controversial of the songs to which he gave new arrangement. Giving it a laid back country two-step, Mellencamp changed the tune from an Americana anthem to more thoughtful folksy remi­niscence on life. Audience reception was lukewarm, though many still sang along as though the tune were its rock­ing former self. 
Immediately following “Jack and Diane” was a solo acoustic version of the classic “Small Town,” which was fantastic. Not significantly different in arrangement, but just stripped down, the song got at right to the core of South Bend’s appreciation for Mellencamp. It was simple, bold and passionately sung, both by Mellencamp and the audience. 
His full rock band closed out the night, performing many of the old favorites. He managed to slip in a cou­ple new tracks, but the audience was really there to hear the songs they’ve loved for years. “Pink Houses” was as rocking as ever and its lyrics about the failure of the American Dream are as pertinent as ever. 
The last song of the night was “R.O.C.K. in the USA” which was a great closer. A cheerful ending note, the song sounded fresh, and Mellencamp even pulled a woman from the audience to dance with him, which was as hilarious as it was simply awesome on his part. 

Among his many asides, he gave some advice to the younger folks out there, saying that when he was young he thought he knew a lot. But, he’s also lived a great a deal since then, and that he might have picked up some knowl­edge along the way, and that made him dangerous. He humorously warned that there’s “nothing worse than a danger­ous old man.” If a dangerous old man can continue to put on shows like his, there might be nothing better. 

Contact Ross Finney at tfnney@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 17, 2010 
MLB 




Uggla traded to Braves for Infante, Dunn 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Power-hitting second baseman Dan Uggla was dealt from the Florida Marlins to the Atlanta Braves on Tuesday for infielder Omar Infante and left-han­der Mike Dunn in the first trade of the general managers’ meetings. 
A two-time All-Star, Uggla hit .287 with 33 homers and 105 RBIs last season and had been discussing a possible contract extension with Florida. He made $7.8 million this year, is eligible for salary arbitration and can become a free agent after the 2011 World Series. 
“We’re satisfied he’s here for one year,” Braves general manager Frank Wren said. “He’s a kind of guy we’d like to make long-term.” 
The trade reunites Uggla with former Marlins manager Fredi Gonzalez, hired by the Braves to succeed Bobby Cox following the longtime Atlanta manager’s retire­ment. 
Florida is close to replacing some of the lost power with free-agent catcher John Buck, who is nearing agreement on an $18 million, three-year contract. 
Martin Prado split time between second and third this year for the Braves, and the trade could be a sign Atlanta is unsure whether third baseman Chipper Jones can return next year from surgery to repair a torn ligament in his left knee. Jones turns 39 in April. 
Wren said Uggla will play second. 
“Martin plays left field as his pri­mary position in winter ball, though he’s not playing this year,” Wren said. “So we have some flexibility depending on how Chipper responds.” 
Marlins president of baseball operations Larry Beinfest said the trade followed the failed contract talks. Uggla was taken from Arizona in the 2005 winter meeting draft when he was left unprotected. 
“The deal just didn’t work out. We just made the decision,” Beinfest said. “Dan is a great guy. He understands. He’s a great story in a lot of ways from where he came from five years ago to where he is today.” 
Terry Bross, Uggla’s agent, said the player was in Mexico on a Nike tour and not available to discuss the trade. 
“He loved Florida and wanted to remain a Marlin. I’m sure he’s sad­dened by not being a Marlin any­more. But he’ll be exited to be a Brave.” 
Florida offered Uggla a $24 mil­lion, three-year extension during the summer, a person familiar with the talks said, speaking on condition of anonymity because those details were not announced. The person said Uggla countered with a $71 million, five-year proposal. 
In recent weeks, the Marlins increased their offer to $48 million over four years, and Uggla remained with his initial proposal. 
Bross declined comment on those figures. He said he would be willing to discuss a multiyear deal with the Braves but called it a step-by-step process and said he will wait to hear from Atlanta. 
Infante was a first-time All-Star who hit a career-high .321 with eight homers and 47 RBIs. Dunn was 2-0 with a 1.89 ERA in 25 games in his rookie season. 
“There could be a little downturn in the power,” Beinfest said, “but it’s a different look now for the Marlins to get the high average, high on-base guy and then hopefully the guys in the middle, Hanley (Ramirez) and (Mike) Stanton can drive those guys in.” 
While the teams had been in dis­cussions for awhile, it came togeth­er when the GMs gathered for their annual get-together. 
“I think we exchanged some names 10 days ago or 12 days ago,” Wren said. “As we got into our meetings today, I think it was just by happenstance, we happened to be sitting beside each other. We didn’t have assigned seats as we normally do. We started talking and it pro­gressed by late in the morning we were exchanging names and were in basic agreement what the deal would be. It was just going ahead and getting some additional infor­mation.” 


Buck’s negotiations were dis­closed by a second person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal was not yet final. The person said the sides were working to wrap it up. 
Buck was a first-time All-Star this year, when he hit .281 with 20 homers and 66 RBIs for the Toronto Blue Jays. 
NFL 


Vick’s MVP-like resurgance sparks soaring Eagles 
threw for 333 yards and four downright spectacular, even vote for Michael Vick or try to December, is a hot item nowa-
Associated Press 

touchdowns, and ran for 80 more so than when he was a get a bid for him because the days. 
PHILADELPHIA — Michael yards and two scores in superstar with the Atlanta way he was looking out there, “He’s my favorite player,” said Vick had just scored after Philadelphia’s 59-28 victory. Falcons. he was looking awesome,” Ashley Walton, one of many fans another dazzling run against So much for everyone who “I feel like I’m playing the best Redskins defensive tackle Albert wearing a Vick jersey at a sports the Redskins when Eagles fans protested his arrival in football only because of the Haynesworth said. bar in South Philadelphia. “I at a local sports bar began Philadelphia and threatened to coaches that I have, the guys Some would argue that if know what he did was wrong chanting: “M-V-P! M-V-P! M-V-boycott games. I’m playing with. The offensive Redskins quarterback Donovan and it’s something some people P!” “I thought what he did was line is playing great,” Vick said. McNabb can get a $78 million, will never forgive him for, but 
It was a far cry from what disgusting, but the guy paid his “I have a great group of guys five-year deal from the he went to jail and he did his Vick was being called a few dues and deserves a second around me. Just as I’m doing a Redskins, the 30-year-old Vick time. People can’t judge him for years ago. chance,” said Shaun Young, an great job, those guys are doing a certainly should be worth more one mistake forever. Everyone 
Once one of the NFL’s biggest 18-year season ticket holder great job as well.” right now. He’s younger and makes mistakes.” and highest paid stars, his who was inducted into the Pro Fickle fans who were out-arguably playing better than Indeed, Vick has made the career was in ruins and his life Football Ultimate Fan raged when the Eagles signed McNabb did when he led the Eagles (6-3) an instant con-in shambles. He was broke, Association’s Hall of Fame last him to a two-year deal are now Eagles to the Super Bowl in tender in a season in what was reviled and relegated to being a year in Canton, Ohio. demanding the team give him a 2004. McNabb was traded by to be a rebuilding season. situational No. 3 quarterback “He’s playing incredible. I new contract. Vick, who filed for the Eagles to Washington in They’re 4-0 in games that he’s after serving 18 months in fed-respect people’s opinions that Chapter 11 bankruptcy protec-April and the rest, well, is histo-started and finished, and are eral prison for running a dog-don’t like him, but isn’t this tion in July 2008, could be a top ry. tied with the New York Giants fighting ring. world based on second free agent on the market next “I could have never envisioned for first place in the NFC East. 
Now he’s on top again, playing chances?” year if Philadelphia lets him get this,” Vick said. “Signing here, I Check out his numbers, maybe better than ever, and just Since signing with the Eagles that far. Teams who weren’t didn’t even think I’d be starting despite missing three games in time to become perhaps the in August 2009, he’s been a willing to trade a high draft pick as the quarterback this year. So, with a rib injury: He has passed biggest free agent on the market model citizen off the field, work-for him when the Eagles made all of this is paramount for me, for 1,350 yards and 11 TDs and next year. ing with the Humane Society of him available last offseason just but at the same time it’s some-rushed for 341 yards and four 
Vick may have had the best the United States and speaking may be lining up to throw what surprising.” TDs. He hasn’t thrown an inter­all-around game by a quarter-to school and community groups money at him. Hard to believe that Vick’s No. ception or lost a fumble and his back in NFL history Monday about the cruelty of dogfighting. “The other 31 teams out there 7 jersey, which was being sold passer rating of 115.1 leads the night against Washington. He On the field, Vick has been need to save their money and at clearance prices last NFL. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you love needs Ron Burgundy: Let's go to Brian Ron Burgundy: What? You pooped confidential support or assistance, Fantana who's live on the scene in the refrigerator? And you ate the FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 with a Channel 4 News exclusive. whole... wheel of cheese? How'd or Ann Firth at 1-2685. Brian? you do that? Heck, I'm not even House for sale on Angela. Housing available for next school If you or someone you care about mad; that's amazing. How 'bout we 
year. has been sexually assaulted, we For more information, visit ND's Brian Fantana: Panda Watch. The get you in your p.j.'s and we hit the 2.5K sq ft home. can help. website at: http://pregnancysup-mood is tense; I have been on hay 4BR 3.5BA. 2 to 5 bedroom homes. port@nd.edu. some serious, serious reports but ——————————————— 
For more information, visit Notre nothing quite like this. I uh... Ron Burgundy: [answers the phone Furniture ? Close to campus. Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— Ching... King is inside right now. I in a very distressed manor] "Hello? fully redone. ——————————————— tried to get an interview with him, Who's there, I'm talkin? Hello? Who 
Good rates and good landlord. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Ron Burgundy: [to dog] You're so but they said no, you can't do that is this? Baxter... is that you? Baxter! $347,500 Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has wise. You're like a miniature he's a live bear, he will literally rip Bark twice if your in Milwaukee... Is 574-232-2211 on web at Leasing now. 574-276-2333 many resources in place to assist Buddha, covered in hair. your face off. this Wilt Chamberlain? Have the 610.sbrp.us you. courage to say something! Hello? ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, November 17, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NBA 

Beasley settles into role with Timberwolves 
ed the 21-year-old with respon-
Associated Press 
sibilities, asking him to play two 

MINNEAPOLIS — It’s taken a positions, be aggressive but not few weeks for Michael Beasley TOO aggressive and take over to find his way in the Minnesota when the time is right. Timberwolves offense. The message appears to be 
Coach Kurt Rambis has flood-getting through. 

For a player who was labeled irresponsible in his first two seasons in Miami, Beasley is embracing his role as the go-to guy in his first season in Minnesota. He scored a career-high 42 points in a win over the Kings last week, followed that up with 35 in a win over the Knicks and is averaging 32.5 points over the last four games. 
Beasley’s scoring binge has helped the Wolves go 2-2, show­ing a feistiness that wasn’t there early in the season — or for the last five years, really. 
Beasley welcomed a baby boy into his family on the same day he hung 42 on the Kings and is quickly settling into his new surroundings after two so-so seasons to start his career. 
“I feel at home,” Beasley said. “I definitely feel at home, on the court and off.” 
The precocious personality and free-wheeling spirit never really felt comfortable on South Beach after the Heat made him the No. 2 overall pick in 2008. He never got into the flow of the offense playing with Dwyane Wade and ran into problems off the court as well. 
The Heat sent him to Minnesota in a salary dump to create room for LeBron James and Chris Bosh this summer. Rather than feel sorry for him­self in basketball’s version of Siberia, Beasley has shown signs of blossoming into the kind of player everyone thought he could be when he was draft­ed. 
It’s still very early in his first season with the Timberwolves, but teammates, coaches and fans are liking what they see so far. 
“He’s very outgoing,” Rambis said. “He has a lot of fun play­ing. He loves the game of bas­ketball. We certainly enjoy his enthusiasm.” 


And his game isn’t too shabby, either. It’s been a long time since the long-suffering Timberwolves have had a player with the kind of offensive versa­tility that the 6-foot-9 Beasley has at his disposal. He can get to the rim, knock down the 3 and create his own shot, a reve­lation for a team that has had to work so hard for offense in recent seasons. 
“His talent is through the roof,” shooting guard Wayne Ellington said. “He’s just a baller man. Flat out.” 
Starting at small forward rather than his normal power forward, Beasley is shooting 55 percent from the field and 58 percent (7 for 12) from 3-point range during his surge, and is gradually picking up all the things that Rambis wants him to do — on both ends of the court. 
“It’s the hardest (basketball) thing I’ve ever done in my life,” Beasley said. “I’m playing the three and the four on offense and defense. I’m banging with the big guys. I’m chasing the lit­tle guys. It’s just focus. ... It’s all mental. Coach tells me before every possession. Every time he gives me a new job he tells me and I lock in and do it.” 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Paterno sticks with McGloin for Saturday 
Associated Press 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. — College football’s elder states­man has one of his youngest teams in ages. 
Joe Paterno’s roster at Penn State includes nearly five dozen freshmen and sophomores, and just eight senior starters — one of the factors JoePa cited for the second-half collapse last week in a 24-point loss at No. 8 Ohio State. 
Chances for a conference title disappeared weeks ago, though it doesn’t mean that Paterno is ready to use the last two regu­lar-season games of 2010 as a warm-up for his younger play­ers for 2011. 
“No, I don’t think that’s fair to the kids ... who will be leaving us. And you know, they have worked hard. They are entitled to have the best season they possibly can have,” the 83­year-old Paterno said Tuesday. “We are worrying about this year game-by-game. We’ll worry about next year as soon as this season’s over.” 
At 6-4 (3-3 BigTen), victories Saturday against Indiana in Landover, Md., and on Thanksgiving weekend at home vs. No. 11 Michigan State would solidify the Nittany Lions’ chances for a third consecutive New Year’s Day bowl game. 
But the outlook looks dramat­ically different from a week ago, when Penn State was rid­ing a three-game winning streak and an emotional, come-from-behind win over Northwestern to snag Paterno’s 400th career victory. 
Paterno is sticking with Matt McGloin as the starting quar­terback after the redshirt soph­omore threw two interceptions returned for touchdowns by the Buckeyes in the second half last week. McGloin did toss two first-half touchdown passes before the team got overrun at the Horseshoe after halftime. 
Ohio State counterpart Terrelle Pryor led a romp over a defense that played most of the second half without per­haps its best player in line­backer Michael Mauti (right shoulder). 
It added up to the Nittany Lions’ fourth loss this season by 20 or more points. 
“You are bound to have those days when ... you can’t make something happen for yourself, and anything adverse that hap­pens, is probably a little bit more dramatic than it would be when you get all of the kids,” Paterno said. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 17, 2010 
MLB 

Halladay wins Cy Young 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Roy Halladay arrived in Philadelphia to a standing ovation, a $60 million contract extension and the billing as baseball’s top ace. That was before he threw a sin­gle pitch. 
Doc delivered, and then some. 
Halladay added another vic­tory to an almost perfect season Tuesday, unanimously winning the NL Cy Young Award and becoming the fifth pitcher to earn the honor in both leagues. 
“It’s by far the most fun I’ve ever had playing this game,” he said on a conference call from Mexico, where he was golfing with Phillies teammate Mike S w e e n e y, Cardinals star Chris Carpenter 2.27 ERA, led the AL in innings and was second in strikeouts. His Seattle Mariners had the worst record in the league and were either shut out or held to one run in 10 of his 34 starts. 
CC Sabathia of the Yankees went 21-7 with a 3.18 ERA and Tampa Bay’s David Price was 19-6 with a 2.72 ERA. 
“Obviously, Felix’s numbers are very, very impressive,” Halladay said. “Ultimately, you look at how guys are able to win games. Sometimes, you find a way to win games.” 
Acquired from Toronto last December, Halladay quickly adjusted to a new league and added to the 2003 AL Cy Young he won with the Blue Jays. 
Halladay threw a perfect game at Florida on May 29, then 

and pitcher Chris tossed a no­
“To be able to do it 
Young. hitter against 
again after so long
“It was every-Cincinnati in thing I hoped it means a lot to me.” his postsea­would be,” son debut. Halladay said. Voting for 
Roy Halladay 
In the Year of the award 
Phillies pitcher
the Pitcher, he ended after 
became the only one ever to throw a perfect game and no-hitter in the same season. 
Halladay was an easy choice after going 21-10 with a 2.44 ERA and 219 strikeouts. He led the league in wins and topped the majors in innings (250 2-3), shutouts (4) and complete games (9). 
Halladay received all 32 first-place votes in balloting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. 
Adam Wainwright of St. Louis was second and Ubaldo Jimenez of Colorado was third. San Francisco ace Tim Lincecum, who won the past two NL Cy Youngs, finished 11th. 
“It’s surprising,” Halladay said. “There could have been a lot of cases made, strong cases.” 
This year’s AL Cy Young Award winner will be announced Thursday. It could be a much more complicated race. 
Felix Hernandez went 13-12, but topped the majors with a the regular 
season. Three days later, Halladay completely overmatched the Reds, the top-hitting team in the NL, in their playoff opener. 
Halladay split a pair of matchups with Lincecum in the NL championship series. The Giants won in six games, blunt­ing the Phillies’ bid to reach the World Series for the third straight year. 
“We fell short,” he said. “That part is definitely tough.” 
Halladay’s seven-year gap between Cy Youngs ties the longest in history, matching Tom Glavine. 
“To be able to do it again after so long,” he said, “means a lot to me.” 
Halladay joined Roger Clemens, Randy Johnson, Pedro Martinez and Gaylord Perry as pitchers to earn the award in both leagues. 
He credited catcher Carlos Ruiz, pitcher Jamie Moyer, pitching coach Rich Dubee and others for making his transition to the Phillies and the NL a smooth one. 


Wednesday, November 17, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles dominate in opening win 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s made an emphatic statement in their opening game with a 72-36 victory against Wheaton College. 
The Belles (1-0) were led by junior forward Kelley Murphy, who led the team with 21 points on 8-11 shooting from the field and notched 18 rebounds to earn the double-double. 
The Belles defense stifled the Thunder all day, holding Wheaton to 24 percent shooting from the field, and four players had at least three steals. 
Saint Mary’s led 33-24 at halftime, but it was in the second half of where the Belles put the game out of reach. They held the Thunder to just 12 points in the second half and outscored Wheaton by 27 in the final 20 minutes. 

The Thunder (0-1) were led by junior Elisabeth Potts, who had 13 points and eight rebounds in 25 minutes of action, and sen­ior Annie Bowen, who recorded a double-double with 10 points and 11 rebounds. 
The Belles will next be in action Friday against Aurora College at the North Central College holiday tour­nament in Naperville, Ill. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
NHL 

Canadiens shut out Philadelphia 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL — Carey Price made 41 saves for his third shutout, Brian Gionta had a goal and two assists, and the Montreal Canadiens extended their winning streak to four with a 3-0 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night. 
Price stopped 13 shots in the first and 20 more in the second on his way to his seventh career shutout, his second in four games. He stopped 34 shots one week earlier in a 2-0 win over Vancouver which began Montreal’s current streak. 
Gionta assisted on Michael Cammalleri’s goal during a two-man advantage midway through the first period. The Canadiens’ captain got his sec­ond assist on Tomas Plekanec’s goal 13:48 into the second. 
Gionta scored for the third game in a row when he added Montreal’s second power-play goal 6:24 into the third. 

Sergei Bobrovsky made 25 saves for Philadelphia, which lost in regulation for the first time in three weeks. The Flyers, who beat Ottawa 5-1 on Monday, had gone 9-0-1 since a 2-1 loss in Columbus on Oct. 25. 
It was the first meeting of the two Eastern Conference final­ists since Philadelphia’s series win last spring. 
Montreal defenseman Andrei Markov was out of the lineup because of a right knee injury he suffered late in Saturday night’s 7-2 win over Carolina after colliding with Hurricanes captain Eric Staal. 
The Canadiens said prior to the game that Markov, who missed the first 10 games recovering from surgery on the same knee, will be sidelined indefinitely. There was no update on the nature of his injury. 
Cammalleri scored 9:36 into the first during a lengthy two-man advantage. Flyers defense-man Chris Pronger was sent off for clearing a puck into the crowd at 8:39, 23 seconds after Matt Carle was called for slash­ing. 
Plekanec scored in the second period to put the Canadiens up 2-0 moments after Philadelphia had two straight power plays, including a two-man advantage for 30 seconds. 
The Montreal center took Gionta’s pass and stopped in the right faceoff circle before surprising Bobrovsky with a shot under his right pad while Canadiens forward Travis Moen drove the left side. 
Canadiens center Jeff Halpern had to be helped off the ice after he was hit by Philadelphia’s Darroll Powe in the corner 27 seconds into the third. Powe appeared to get his elbow up on Halpern’s head, though no penalty was called on the play. 
Halpern’s helmet came off after his head struck the boards and the back of his head struck the ice when he fell. 
Powe fought with Montreal’s Maxim Lapierre at 2:06. 
Gionta got his third point at 
6:24 when his backhand toward the net got past Bobrovsky for his fourth goal in five games. 
Nash 
continued from page 16 
especially hot hand from deep, hitting nine of his 15 three-point attempts. 
Both Abromaitis and Nash are also averaging double digits for the Irish — a scor­ing diversity that Brey fore­saw. 
“We will be a little more diverse [in scoring], with guys being able to make plays,” he said. “Certainly Ben [Hansbrough] and [Tim Abromaitis] are the most confident to make plays, especially during our early non-league slate. They have been in the battles a little longer.” 
Notre Dame faces Chicago State tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Hurley 
continued from page 16 
Hurley finished 61st out of 136 competitors. At the event, it was announced that Hurley won the 2009 -10 World Cup Trophy as the best junior epee competitor. According to Bednarski, Hurley can use the interna­tional competition as motiva­tion to be in a continual process of improvement. 
“The whole world is chal­lenging her,” Bednarski said. 
Hurley’s sister Kelly was a fencer at Notre Dame as well and also competed in the World Championships. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 17, 2010 
Brown 
continued from page 16 
ule. 
“Our goal was to win the reg­ular season and we weren’t able to do that, so we have another opportunity here this weekend to win the tourna­ment, which would be awe­some to have a Big East cham­pionship this year,” Brown said. 
Once again, the Big East fea­tures a number of powerhouse squads, with Cincinnati, Louisville, Marquette and Villanova taking the top four seeds. Each of these squads defeated the Irish this season and threatens to take them down once again this weekend, but Brown isn’t letting that get ence season, the Bearcats were her team down. unanimously selected as the 
“One of the things that’s fun favorite in the Big East presea­about it is that we’ve played son coaches’ poll. Louisville, each of these the defend-teams before, so to ing tourna­have the opportu-ment cham­nity to see them pion, was 
again and to be picked sec­
“It’s a matter of being 
able to make the ond, and adjustments and to sharp for three Notre Dame be able to look at matches in a row.” followed in the little things, third. The what we didn’t do Irish have 
Debbie Brown
well against them struggled 
Irish coach
the time before, w i t h makes it a fun and Louisville in challenging situa-the Big East tion,” Brown said. champi-
Of the four teams o n s h i p ahead of the Irish, only before, falling to the Cardinals Cincinnati registered a 3-0 in the title game in both 2008 sweep. and 2009 after defeating them 
At the opening of the confer-in the regular season. 

But Brown isn’t allowing her team to worry about the past. Instead, she’s working to keep them focused on being ready to play three difficult matches in a matter of three days against some of the Big East’s best competitors. 
“The challenge is the tourna­ment, always, that you play, if you win the championship, you play three matches back-to­back and its always good com­petition,” Brown said. “It’s a matter of being sharp for three matches in a row.” 
Notre Dame doesn’t have to look far for the key to its suc­cess and playing on top of its game. The Irish found that key much earlier this season, and were reminded of it this past weekend as they swept both Rutgers and Seton Hall when everything was about the team. 
“Our main focus is on the team and whatever we can do,” Brown said. “All through out the season and it was real­ly noticeable this last weekend, how the team was really united and everybody was really self­less and really happy for their teammates, whenever their teammates would do some­thing well. 
“I want to definitely impli­cate that as we go into the tournament. It’s definitely a team time, it’s something where everybody’s really focused on doing what they can to make the team better,” Brown continued. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior midfelder Chris Sutton contests the ball against Marquette in a Big East conference tournament quarterfnal on Nov. 6. The Irish received the No. 9 overall seed in the NCAA tournament Monday. 
Louisville 
continued from page 16 
Committee on the same side of the bracket as No. 1 overall Louisville. For Notre Dame, this means the road to the College Cup runs through their old Kentucky foes. 
Several things bode well for Clark’s squad with their seeding and their draw. They will be play­ing familiar foes nearly all the way through. In their opening game, the Irish will play the winner of a Wednesday night Bruins and Cardinals haven’t been positive, this is a different Irish team than the one that took the field in the early stages of the season. Senior forward Steven Perry and junior midfielder Brendan King have been sensa­tional in the second half of the season, with Perry seemingly scoring in every match. Notre Dame has been scoring goals against better defenses than the ones they struggled to score against early in the season. If there is one trend that the team can ride through the postseason, 
it is the fact 
that their main 
striker — Perry 

tilt between Dartmouth and Monmouth. Clark should have no  Several things bode well for Clark’s squad with their seeding and  — is scoring goals. Soccer coaches have a lot to smile  
trouble game plan- their draw. They will  about when  
ning for a Dartmouth squad that he knows well,  be playing familiar foes nearly all the way  that happens. The teams who win cham­ 
as he coached at  through.  pionships are  

the school from 1985 to 1993 and led the Big Green to the NCAA quar­terfinals twice. Clark’s oldest son Tommy also graduated from and played soccer for the Ivy League school. Waiting for the Irish in the next round, if top seeds hold, would be UCLA, who handed the Irish a 1-0 defeat in Notre Dame’s season opener. The next logical opponent would be Louisville, provided the Cardinals are able to knock off lower seeds in their first two games. On the whole, it’s clear that there is no lack of familiarity for the Irish on their side of the bracket. 
While the results against the 
not always the best overall teams, but the teams that are playing the 
best going into the postseason. Clark’s squad is playing well at the right time, and if fate smiles on them, they will get the chance to take on the team that has tor­mented them throughout the reg­ular season and beat them when it really counts. 
Isn’t that really all they can ask for? 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Allen at 


Wednesday, November 17, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDV LLE 
JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Wednesday, November 17, 2010 page 16 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Opening volley 
Notre Dame set to begin conference tournament with match against Pittsburgh 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will head to Pittsburgh this weekend to compete for their 10th Big East title. 
Unlike last season, when the Irish (17-11, 10-4 Big East) went into the tournament at the top of the conference, this year’s squad has a lot more to work for. 
“[The tournament is] huge because of two reasons, but the primary [reason] is that it gives the winner of the tourna­ment an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament, and for us this year, that is huge,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “And obviously, anytime you can go to a tournament and win, and win a championship that would be obviously, the second part of it and certainly our goal.” 
Notre Dame was not able to win one of its earlier goals for this season, a goal it achieved flawlessly last season with an undefeated conference sched-
TOM LA/The Observer 

Freshman setter Sammie Brown sets up teammate Kellie Sciacca for a kill against Northern Iowa see BROWN/page 14 Oct. 7. The Irish will begin the Big East tournament against Pittsburgh this weekend. 

MEN’S SOCCER 
ND’s road to Cup is familiar 
Evidently, baseball bats aren’t the only high-quality product to come out of Louisville. The Louisville men’s soccer team is pretty good too, a fact the Irish and head coach Bobby Clark know all too well. 
Notre Dame has lost twice to the top-ranked Cardinals on the season, 

Chris Allen 
falling 2-0 on the road in Louisville in Sports Writer October, and dropping a heartbreaking 1-0 decision in the Big East semifinals in New Jersey Friday. 
After Friday’s loss, Clark expressed his hope that the Irish might get another shot against Louisville in the NCAA Tournament. He may get his wish. 
The Irish were seeded No. 9 overall by the NCAA Selection 
see LOUISVILLE/page 14 
FENCING 

Hurley sets sights on national excellence 
Sophomore grows after 50-5 freshman season 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
When sophomore Courtney Hurley came to Notre Dame, she was an enthusiastic young fencer looking to find her way in the sport. Slightly more than a year later, she is an internationally competi­tive athlete with her sights set on becoming one of the best in the world. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski has watched her develop over the last year and a half, and has noticed marked improvements in both her tactical approach and maturity as a fencer. 
“She ’s getting more and more mature,” Bednarski said. “She’s controlling her performance the whole day and it helps her.” 
Because fencing competi­tions can last up to six or seven hours, Hurley must be able to sustain her perform­ance throughout the day by relaxing between bouts, not expending too much energy in celebration of a victory, and saving energy on weaker opponents. 
“Winning the bout is not the primary goal,” Bednarski said. “The primary goal is to win the competition. She’s starting to learn. You have to be a very smart and very self-controlled person to know what needs to be done to win the tournament.” 
Bednarski noted the many challenges that come with being a student athlete while training to keep up with the rapidly developing sport of fencing. 
“She needs to follow up with the technical nuances that her opponents are bring­ing from the work with their coaches,” Bednarski said. “It’s time-consuming, but she has to find the time for this. It’s not easy with studies, but that’s how she has to improve.” 
Even as a young competitor, Hurley has accomplished a great deal in the sport. At one point, she was ranked as the No. 2 junior fencer in the world. As a freshman last season, she went 50-5 in the regular season on her way to first-team All-American hon­
ors in the NCAA Championships. She fell in the semifinals of the national tournament a year ago, but she should compete for a title this season. 
This year at the FIE World Championships in Paris, 
see HURLEY/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish to host Chicago State 

By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Edu 
Two games into the season, Notre Dame has outscored its opposition by a combined 58 points. In their third game of the season, the Irish (2-0) face a Chicago State team that was outscored by 34 points against DePaul Sunday. 
Tonight’s match-up will be the second in a month-long road trip for the Cougars (1­1), while it ends a six-day stretch for Notre Dame filled with three games. Friday night the Irish topped Georgia Southern 98-61 to open the season, and defeated Liberty 72-51 Sunday. 

In both games, Notre Dame started five seniors – guards Ben Hansbrough and Scott Martin and forwards Tim Abromaitis, Carleton Scott and Tyrone Nash. Four of the five – excluding Martin – are team captains. 
“We have five guys that are technically seniors that have been around so it is a great group to build and grow with,” Brey said of the team’s elder statesmen before the season began. “Trying to stay old with the guys that are on the floor as much as possible is really important to us.” 
Of those five, Hansbrough leads the team in scoring with 20 points against Georgia 
see NASH/page 13 





