the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Kelly addresses Sullivan’s death 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame head coach Brian Kelly said in Saturday’s post-game press conference that he made the decision to practice outdoors Wednesday when junior videogra­pher Declan Sullivan died after the scissor lift he was filming practice from collapsed. 
The press conference was Kelly’s first public appearance since the accident. 
“On Wednesday, I made the decision that we could have a pro­ductive and safe practice outdoors 
— productive because the condi­tions were such, although windy, were not unlike many days that I had practiced at other universi­ties, including here at the University of Notre Dame,” Kelly 
see KELLY/page 4 

NDstudent robbed at gunpoint 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame student was held at gunpoint and robbed outside an off-campus resi­dence early Friday morning, according to the student and South Bend Police logs. 
The victim, a Notre Dame senior, said the robbers left with cash from his wallet, and several small items from cars parked outside the house were stolen that night. The Observer is not naming the student because he is the vic­tim of a crime. 
The student was at an off-campus party on East South Bend Avenue, according to South Bend Police Department logs. The logs state the inci­dent occurred between 12:15 and 12:30 a.m. Friday. 
Twenty people left the party 
see ROBBERY/page 4 

Fans reflect on ‘somber’ game day 
Moment of silence honors junior Declan Sullivan; students say Saturday’s mood was altered 

football game against Michigan. On Sept. 11, she said she remembered hearing peo­ple talking during the moment of silence, but not on Saturday during the moment in honor of Sullivan. 
Wright said the overall mood on campus was different on Saturday as opposed to other home football games. 
“I think the mood was much more somber all around cam­pus,” she said. 
Management Professor Suzanne Coshow wore a button she made from the same decal football players wore on their helmets to Saturday’s game in honor of Sullivan. She said Sullivan was in one of her classes this semester, and mak­ing stickers and buttons to wear and give to other fans was a way to honor his memo-
see TULSA/page 4 




Notre Dame improves sustainability 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame received a B+ on the College Sustainability Report Card 2011, improving from its overall grade of B in 2010. 
Sarah Levy, communications fellow at the Sustainable Endowments Institute (SEI), said that while Notre Dame improved in the categories of Climate & Energy and Food & Recycling, it received low grades in Endowment Transparency and Shareholder Engagement. 
The Report Card is an initia­tive of SEI, a nonprofit organi­zation supporting research to advance sustainability at col­lege campuses across the United States and Canada. Levy said the Report Card is designed to identify colleges and universities that are lead­ers in sustainability. 
“The aim is to provide accessible information for schools to learn from each 
see REPORT/page 6 




By LAURA  McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
During the moment of silence in honor of Declan Sullivan before Saturday’s football game, sophomore Erin Wright said the only sound she heard in the Stadium was the American flag clinking against the flagpole. 
“That’s what I thought was most striking,” Wright said. “I noticed a few people after it was over saying ‘oh my gosh, did you look at the flag? Did you hear the flag?’” 
Sullivan, a Notre Dame jun­ior and videographer for the University’s football team, died Wednesday after a film tower fell during football practice. 
Freshman Cat Caracci com­pared Saturday’s moment of silence to the moment of silence before the Sept. 11 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC plays Quidditch matches page 3  Halloween Style Spotter page 10  Womens soccer loses Big East game page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, November 1, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Amanda Gray Sports Sam Stryker Molly Sammon Nicole Toczauer Allan Joseph Graphics Megan Golden Melissa Kaduck Scene Photo Maija Gustin Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 
What is your dream date? Bryce: A picnic in the middle of a field with peanut butter and jelly sandwiches cut across the diago­nal (made by her, of course) and two rainbows intersecting at a perpendicular angle directly above us. 
What were you for Halloween?. Bryce: I was the best looking David Boone you’ve ever seen. Or Davie Crockett, depending on whatever the girl thought I was. 
What is your favorite Halloween movie? Bryce: It is between The Notebook and Talladega Nights. 


Who would you invite to your tea party? Bryce: Either Sarah Palin or Phil Collins. 

Bryce Burton 
sophomore Siegfried 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Waldo was found in the student section Saturday at the football game against Tulsa. This Waldo posse, accompanied by Bert and a man in a spandex body suit, celebrated Halloween a day early. 
OFFBEAT 
Pachyderm pumpkin pounded at the zoo 
ASHEBORO, N.C. — Even some of the critters at the North Carolina Zoo can partake in a long-standing tradition of Halloween mischief: pumpkin-smashing. 
The zoo is holding its annual “Pachyderm Pumpkin Pounding” on Sunday, which is Halloween. 
Elephants, gorillas and chimpanzees will all have a chance to pulver­ize and partake of pump­kins in their exhibits. It’s all part of the zoo ’s ongoing animal enrich­ment program. 
Zookeepers say the pumpkins provide both 


Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Beginning today, 1 Million Steps in 100 Days encourages students to take 10,000 steps each day for 100 days. To sign up, go to RecRegister, select Walk ND, and sign up. To keep track of steps, obtain a pedometer from RecSports and enter your daily progress online. This event is free and lasts until Feb. 8. 
The Mendoza College of Business presents “Fighting Futures,” a lecture given by Bart Chilton, Commissioner for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). With a career in government service for 25 years, he will be discussing his experiences in Jordan Auditorium at 1:30 p.m. today. This event is free and open to the public. 
The Department of American Studies is sponsoring the free lec­ture “Taking and Making the 19th Century Souvenir.” From 4 to 5:30 p.m. in 131 Debartolo Hall Dr. William L. Bird, curator at the Smithsonian, will interpret relics, curios, mementos and numina left in the care of the National Museum of American History from 1855 to present day. 
The Hesburgh Center for International Studies is sponsor­ing several free activities in honor of El Dia de los Muertos, the Day of the Dead in Hesburgh Center Great Hall. From 6 to 7 p.m., artist Artemio Rodriguez will be speaking about his work. At 6:30 p.m., anthropologist Dr. Alex E. Chávez and specialist Juan Rivera of Sones de México will initiate a discussion, followed by a musical performance. Mariachi ND and Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro will perform several times throughout the evening. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
thursday friday 
mental and physical stimulation for the ani­mals, allowing them to manipulate, taste and smell the giant vegeta­bles. 
Man in wheelchair trav­els three miles 
SWEET HOME, Ore.— A 73 -year-old Oregon man traveled three miles in his wheelchair before hunters found him and helped rescue his 61 ­year-sister after their car got stuck for two nights in the snow. 
Linn County sheriff ’s deputies said Friday that Howard Partridge of Sweet Home and his sis­ter, Janice Partridge, had gone for a drive Wednesday on a U.S. Forest Service road to view autumn foliage. Police said they were reported missing Wednesday after they failed to return home. 
Deputies said the pair had purchased snacks before their trip and melted snow for water. They stayed in their vehicle for shelter before Howard Partridge left to get help Friday. 
Both were reported in good condition and drove their car back to Sweet Home after the hunters freed it from the snow. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


TOday Tonight Tuesday wednesday 

LOCAL WEATHER 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 




mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
LOW 56 LOW 49 LOW 58 LOW 58 LOW 60 LOW 57 

Monday, November 1, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Hullabaloo features Quidditch 

By KRYSTINA HARCOURT 
News Writer 
Students celebrated Halloween Harry Potter style as the Saint Mary’s College Quidditch Club, along with the help of SMC’s Student Government Association, hosted Halloween Hullabaloo on Sunday. 
The club kicked off the event with two Quidditch matches played by the three teams that make up the Quidditch Club. The names of the teams are terms coined by the Harry Potter series. 
In the first match, the Welsh Greens lost to Mooney’s Marauders. Voldemort’s Army triumphed over the Marauders in over­time in the second match. 
About 60 people showed up for the matches. Senior Kathryn Lynch enjoyed watching the matches on a warm blanket close to the playing field. 
“I was really surprised at how organized it was,” said Lynch. “It’s like a real sport.” 
Many members of the crowd, both students and faculty, dressed in Harry Potter garb, including College President Carol Ann Mooney, who dressed in a witch’s outfit. 
However, some spectators, such as senior Molly Sego weren’t lured into the event by the fun theme. 
“I’ve read two of the books, but I’m not really a Harry Potter fan,” Sego said. “I came because my friends were playing, and it’s a fun Halloween activity.” 

Following the Quidditch matches, food and drinks such as Butterbeer, Cauldron Cakes and other delicious treats based off the Harry Potter series were served to participants in the Student Center basement. 
There were many activities to partake in, including for­tune telling, a snitch piñata and an opportunity to get sorted into one of the Hogwarts’ houses. Students also competed in trivia and a costume contest. 
Organizers also gave out prizes, including club t-shirts, Harry Potter-themed candy, a Sorting Hat key-chain and even a bottle of Goblin Juice. 
Allie Hensley, president and creator of the SMC Quidditch Club, Sara Boocher, vice president, and a Halloween committee decided to create Halloween Hullabaloo as a way of intro­ducing the club to the SMC community. The club holds matches every Sunday at 4 
p.m. on the Library Green. 
“I am hoping that the event will generate more interest in the club, and I am also hoping that Sunday after­noons will become a time for students, faculty and staff to come out and enjoy our matches,” Hensley said. 
“We wanted students to come out and see how we play and share in all the fun,” Boocher said. “It was a chance for everyone on cam­pus to see something com­pletely different from the norm and experience the magic.” 
Hensley said she founded the Quidditch Club was cre­ated at the beginning of the school year. 
“My love of Harry Potter is essentially what led to the formation of this club, but I have to give tremendous thanks to all of the people who brought ‘Muggle Quidditch’ to life. There is actually an organization, the International Quidditch Association (IQA), which adapted the rules from J.K. Rowling’s books,” Hensley explained. “I stumbled across the IQA one day last 
semester, and here we  are  
today.”  
Hensley,  along  with  

Boocher, set up a booth at SMC’s Activities Night, hop­ing to recruit members for the club. 
“Allie and I were both nervous that we should have something else to draw peo­ple in, but it turns out quite a few SMC girls love Harry Potter as much as we do,” Boocher said. “The response was overwhelming; more sign-up sheets had to be printed off during Activities Night to meet the demands of the students.” 
Hensley said there are about 30 members, and the club is still accepting mem­bers for their teams. They hope to have another sign-up session before Christmas break. 

Contact Krystina Harcourt at kharco01@saintmarys.edu 

Institute releases security report 
Special to The Observer 
Since the overthrow of the Taliban by U.S.-led forces in 2001, the promotion of women ’s rights in Afghanistan has generated much public debate. Some commentators have suggest­ed that prolonged U.S. and NATO military occupation is needed to protect women’s gains. But what do Afghan women think? 
“Afghan Women Speak: Enhancing Security and Human Rights in Afghanistan,” a new report from the University of Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, draws on more than 50 interviews conducted over several months in Afghanistan and the U.S. 

The report reflects the voic­es of Afghan women leaders, including parliamentarians, activists, school principals, health workers, and mem­bers of the police force and army. 
Report co-authors David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute, and research associate Sarah Smiles Persinger, also interviewed U.S. State Department officials, staff members of international aid organizations, and U.S. military commanders and staff. 
While the majority of the women interviewed support­ed a negotiated end to the war, they also expressed concern that their interests may be sacrificed in a peace deal, according to the authors. The report high­lights the concerns of Afghan women, assesses international efforts to empower women since 2001, and analyzes the security situation in Afghanistan and its impact on women. It con­cludes with recommenda­tions for Western policymak­ers on ways to protect women’s gains while pursu­ing political solutions to the conflict. 
This research was funded in part by the Dutch devel­opment agency Cordaid. Cortright and Persinger will present the report at the United Nations Forum on Security & Human Rights in Afghanistan on Oct. 28. 
Download the full report from the Kroc Institute ’s website at kroc.nd.edu 
Students discuss midterm elections 
By ANNE BOARINI 
News Writer 
Junior Drew Webster said he feels like he’ll pay more attention to politics and vot­ing when he is older. 
“I know there are elections, but being away at school, I don’t really pay attention to Chicago politics, ” junior Drew Webster said. 
Midterm elections begin tomorrow. Some students said they are politically aware, but they have gotten caught up in school and being away from home. While most said they know there is an upcoming election, some noted they haven ’t really thought about the issues. 
“I’m registered and voted before, but it didn ’t even cross my mind [this year],” sophomore Ella Bergmann said. 
Some students said they have found that being away from their home states does­n’t just remove them from the issues; it makes the process 
of voting more difficult. Registering to vote with an absentee ballot is different in each state, but most of the deadlines fall in mid-October, according to longdistancevot­er.org. 
“I didn’t vote because I did-n’t get all my paperwork done, I wasn’t registered before this, ” freshman Rayven Moore said. 
Early voting is also an 
option for some students attending school outside their home states. However, not every state offers this and many states require the votes to be cast in specific loca­tions. 
“I voted early, but there was some drama,” freshman Amy Klopfenstein said. “They didn’t get my registration, so I filled out an emergency reg-
i strati on  fo r m  so  I  cou l d  
vote.”  
Th e  stu d e nts  w ho  vo t e d  

were not just looking at the issues; they said also consid­ered candidates and political parties into their decisions. 
“I wrote in my votes for senate and governor, because I didn ’t like either candi­date,” Klopfenstein said. “I also voted for a few issues that are important to me.” 
Other students that voted have kept up on what is going on in their state politics regarding certain issues and are looking forward to see the outcome on Election Day. 
“ I voted absentee for California, ” junior Ryan Geraghty said. “I’m interest­ed to see what happens with [Proposition 19, the ballot proposition for legalizing some marijuana use].” 
Some students said that while being educated on the issues and candidates is important, the campaign ads candidates run are annoying. While many were home over break, they said seemed to be bombarded with political ads at every turn. 
“I’ll just be happy to see the campaign ads stop, ” Geraghty said. “California’s been called out on the amount of money spent on and the content of the ads. It made me want to vote for a third party just to spite [Democratic gubernatorial candidate Jerry] Brown and [Republican gubernatorial candidate Meg] Whitman.” 
Contact Anne Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
NFS provides funds for multi-school research 
Special to The Observer 
The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded a five-year, $5 million grant to a research project titled “Science of Integration for Cyber-Physical Systems,” in which Panos Antsaklis, H.C. and E.A. Brosey Professor of Engineering at the University, is playing a key role. 
The project is a joint effort of Notre Dame, Vanderbilt University, the University of Maryland and General Motors Research and Development Center. Vanderbilt will lead the project and Notre Dame will be in charge of its theoretical aspects, under a $1.5-million agreement. In addition to Antsaklis, Vijay Gupta from Notre Dame’s Department of Electrical Engineering and William Goodwine from its Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering will participate in the research effort. 
“This is a highly competitive and very prestigious NSF award,” Antsaklis said. “The project aims to develop the theo­ry, methods and tools to build Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS), by combining seamlessly the neces­sary heterogeneous computa­tional and physical components. The Notre Dame team will be using theoretical concepts such as passivity and symmetry to address system uncertainties and the interdependence of design concerns. The scientific results will be validated on a GM electrical vehicle automotive test-bed.” 
Industry has long recognized the huge significance of systems integration and regarded it as a grand challenge. The NSF fund­ed project is designed to solve this challenging problem. 
“Cyber-physical systems are physical, biological and engi­neered systems whose opera­tions are monitored, coordinat­ed, controlled and integrated by a computing and communication core,” Antsaklis said. “As com­puters become ever-smaller, faster and more efficient, and communication networks become better and ever cheaper, computing and communication capabilities are being embedded in all types of objects and struc­tures in the physical environ­ment. This intimate coupling between the cyber and physical will be manifested from the nano-world to large scale, wide-area systems of systems, and at multiple time scales.” 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 1, 2010 
Dame, he said he did not notice any particular mood on 
Tulsa 

campus before the game. continued from page 1 “This is the first football 
game at Notre Dame I’ve been ry. to, so I can’t compare it,” he 
“I’m hoping that we honor said. “Obviously there are him today, that we remember some neat things that happen him,” Coshow said before the here before the game, but if game. there’s a change in mood I 
Coshow also said she wouldn’t notice it and I don’t observed the somber mood on see any difference.” campus before the game, but Junior Alyssa Sappenfield did not hear people talking worked as a cashier at The about Wednesday’s accident. Huddle in LaFortune Student While she usually attends all Center Saturday afternoon home football games and holds before the game. She said she a tailgate, she did not tailgate noticed many people wearing on Saturday. the decal with Sullivan’s ini­
“When the parking pass tials. came up on the [e-mail] list-“It was a lot quieter in [The serv yesterday, I didn’t grab it Huddle],” Sappenfield said. “It because it didn’t seem like the was kind of muted.” usual celebration,” she said. Senior Emily Salvaterra said 
Tony Heitzman, who traveled she did not hear people talking from Louisville, Ky. to see his about the accident at first Notre Dame football Saturday’s game, but she could game, said he heard people tell students were thinking talking about Wednesday’s about it. 
know if there is a maximum wind “We are grateful for the consid­accident on campus Saturday. “When they played the Alma speed prescribed for use of the eration shown to us by the Notre 

Kelly

“They’re just pretty somber Mater at halftime I thought equipment. Dame administration and every-in their thoughts about it,” that was really powerful,” continued from page 1 Kelly said Wednesday’s practice one associated with the Heitzman said. Salvaterra said. “You could tell was productive up until the University. The love for Declan Rich Huxtable, a 1980 Tulsa people were taking it really said. moment of the accident. He said from the Notre Dame community graduate who lives in Kansas seriously.” 
Winds reportedly reached 50 he instructed players to continue evident at the Mass of City, Mo., was on Notre Dame’s miles per hour while Sullivan was practicing when he heard the Remembrance has helped us campus for the game Saturday. Sam Werner contributed to filming practice from the tower. tower came down in order to cope with our grief,” the state-He said he heard about this report. 

“We have systems in place to keep them busy and away from ment says. 
Sullivan’s death, but it did not make certain and that deal with the accident scene. Sullivan loved his job as achange his travel plans. Since Contact Laura McCrystal at issues of safety. Clearly in this He then went to the scene videographer, his parents said in it was his first time at Notre lmccryst@nd.edu 

instance, they failed,” Kelly said. where paramedics where admin-the statement. 
“We are in the process of exam-istering to Sullivan. “The grief we feel is tempered 
ining all of those systems that are “Once I felt comfortable in that by the knowledge that Dec was 
men pointed his weapon at the 
in place and looking for those situation, where we had profes-doing what he loved in the place second student but then the 
answers.” sionals on site dealing with it, I he most wanted to be.” two robbers ran from the 
Robbery 

Director of Athletics Jack went back inside to the practice Fr. Tim Scully, a priest in resi­continued from page 1 scene, the victim said. 
Swarbrick said Thursday that the field and subsequently called our dence at Fisher Hall, will say a “Safety just became a very 

Notre Dame Security Police and football team together at mid-rosary in remembrance of in cabs a few minutes earlier harsh reality very quickly,” 
an independent accident recon-field. We prayed for Declan. I told Sullivan at the Grotto every night but eight to 10 people the victim said. “Based on the 
struction team are investigating and informed our football team of at 11 p.m. as long as there is remained inside the house, the outcome I consider myself 
the accident. The Indiana the injury, the seriousness of it, interest. victim said. lucky.” 
Occupational Safety and Health and I then dismissed our football Sullivan’s Wake was Sunday in The student said he walked The police log listed a dis-
Administration (IOSHA) is also team,” Kelly said. Lake Zurich, Ill. His Funeral is outside the back of the house patch to the house at 12:47 
conducting its own investigation. Sullivan’s family released a today at St. Mary’s Parish in around 12:15 a.m. to make a a.m. The victim said the police 
The scissor lifts will not be used statement Saturday night, signed Buffalo Grove, Ill. at 11:30 a.m. phone call. Several cars were arrived 10 minutes after his 
until the University has more by his parents, Barry and Alison, parked in the backyard, and call. 
information about the accident, which thanked the Notre Dame Contact Madeline Buckley at the victim said he saw some-“The police did not brush it 
Kelly said. He said he does not community. mbuckley@nd.edu one running away from the off lightly but they acknowl­house when he walked onto edged that it was a serious the back porch. problem,” he said. “It was cer-
When the victim walked tainly disconcerting and toward the cars to investigate unnerving.” he was approached from The victim said he was dis-behind and forced onto his appointed with security in the hands and knees by a second neighborhood. His off-campus person with a small gun. The residence was only a few other robber returned with a blocks from the house where gun as well, he said. the robbery occurred. 
“I walked down to see what “I lived off campus as a jun-was going on and suddenly ior as well,” he said. “There had a gun at my head,” he are just times even during the said. “It happened really fast.” day when I do not necessarily 
The student described the feel comfortable.” suspects as two black males The robbery was a reminder under the age of 20 and under to be aware when friends walk five feet, 10 inches tall. One of through the neighborhood or the males pushed the gun go outside alone, he said. against the back of the vic-“Safety is not an issue to be tim’s head and demanded taken lightly,” he said. “I do money. The student gave them think there needs to be more the $25 he had in his wallet. of a police presence.” 
A guest at the party came outside and saw his friend Contact Megan Doyle at held at gunpoint. One of the mdoyle11@nd.edu 




Monday, November 1, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 page 6 The Observer  NEWS Monday, November 1, 2010 

Report 
continued from page 1 
other’s experiences and estab­lish more effective sustainabili­ty practices,” she said. 
Universities are graded across nine categories: Administration, Climate Change & Energy, Food & Recycling, Green Building, Transportation, Student Involvement, Endowment Transparency, Investment Priorities and Shareholder Engagement. Data collection for the Report Card 2011 took place from April to September 2010. 
“SEI gets its information about each school from publicly available sources, from three surveys sent to school adminis­trators and one survey sent to students,” Levy said. 
Since research on the first edition four years ago, Levy said the Report Card surveys show more activity on 52 green indicators, including sustain­ability committees, green build­ing policy and trayless dining. 
Notre Dame’s grade improved in two categories from last year: Climate Change & Energy and Food & Recycling. 
“In terms of Climate Change & Energy, Notre Dame has con­tinued to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, and building energy consumption has decreased with the use of new efficiency measures such as cogeneration, energy manage­ment systems and lighting upgrades,” Levy said. “New sources of renewable energy ... 
contributed to Notre Dame’s higher grade in this area.” 
Notre Dame’s changes in food budget and its electronics recy­cling program also contributed to a higher grade, she said. 
“In the Food & Recycling cat­egory, Notre Dame is spending about the same percentage of its food budget on local items as last year, but some of the veg­etables are now sourced from an on campus garden and fair trade coffee is now available on campus,” Levy said. “Notre Dame’s electronics recycling program and the discounts and prizes provided to students who use reusable mugs and bags also raised the grade.” 
Heather Tonk, director of Sustainability at Notre Dame, said the University has stepped up its sustainability efforts since it was first evaluated in 2007. 
“Just looking at our scores — in 2007 we had a D, and we have steadily improved since then. This shows the commit­ment of the administration as well as the students, faculty and staff,” she said. 
Tonk said Notre Dame has always scored high in the cate­gory of Student Involvement — scoring an “A” every year since the first evaluation. 
She said over the last few years the Office of Sustainability has focused on energy measures, because those are what drive Notre Dame’s carbon emissions. Tonk said the University is in the midst of investing $10 million in energy conservation measures. 
“The Office of Sustainability is continually looking for ways to raise awareness,” she said. 
Levy said schools are general­ly weakest in the categories of Endowment Transparency and Shareholder Engagement. These were also Notre Dame’s weakest categories. 
“Access to endowment infor­mation is needed within a col­lege community to foster con­structive dialogue about oppor­tunities for clean energy invest­ment, as well as shareholder voting priorities,” she said. 
The weakest category overall, she said, was Shareholder Engagement, which had an average grade of “D” across the universities surveyed. 
“Endowment investment deci­sions are an expression of uni­versities’ financial values and priorities,” Levy said. “Schools that own stocks in corporations have shareholder rights and responsibilities, including the right to engage in constructive dialogue with corporate execu­tives.” 
Levy emphasized the respon­sibility universities have to look beyond green initiatives on their own campuses — univer­sities should also promote such measures in the corporations they support. 
“These corporations have huge impacts on the environ­mental and social issues with their own products and poli­cies,” she said. “As institutions of higher learning, universities have a responsibility to not only their own campus, but to the greater community, and even the world.” 
Contact Sara Felsentein at sfelsens@nd.edu 

Proposedlawoffersfreecontraception 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Fifty years after the pill, another birth con­trol revolution may be on the horizon: free contraception for women in the U.S., thanks to the new health care law. 
That could start a shift toward more reliable — and expensive 
— forms of birth control that are gaining acceptance in other developed countries. 
But first, look for a fight over social mores. 
A panel of experts advising the government meets in November to begin considering what kind of preventive care for women should be covered at no cost to the patient, as required under President Barack Obama’s over­haul. 
Sen. Barbara Mikulski, D-Md., author of the women’s health amendment, says the clear intent was to include family planning. 
But is birth control preventive medicine? 
Conflicting answers frame what could be the next clash over moral values and a health law that passed only after a diffi­cult compromise restricting the use of public money for abor­tions. 
For many medical and public health experts, there’s no debate. 
“There is clear and incontro­vertible evidence that family planning saves lives and improves health,” said obstetri­cian-gynecologist Dr. David Grimes, an international family planning expert who teaches medicine at the University of North Carolina. “Contraception rivals immunization in dollars saved for every dollar invested. Spacing out children allows for optimal pregnancies and optimal child rearing. Contraception is a prototype of preventive medi­cine.” 
But U.S. Catholic bishops say pregnancy is a healthy condition, not an illness. In comments filed with the Department of Health and Human Services, the bishops say they oppose any requirement to cover contraceptives or sterili­zation as preventive care. 
“We don’t consider it to be health care, but a lifestyle choice,” said John Haas, presi­dent of the National Catholic Bioethics Center, a Philadelphia think tank whose work reflects church teachings. “We think there are other ways to avoid having children than by ingesting chemicals paid for by health insurance.” 
So far, most other religious conservatives have stayed out of the debate, though that could change. Some say they are con­cerned about any requirement that might include the morning-after pill. The Food and Drug Administration classifies it as birth control; some religious con­servatives see it as an abortion drug. 
Jeanne Monahan, a health pol­icy expert at the conservative Family Research Council, said her group would oppose any mandate that lacks a conscience exemption for moral and reli­gious reasons. She said there’s “great suspicion” that a major abortion provider, Planned Parenthood, is leading the push for free birth control. 
As recently as the 1990s, many health insurance plans didn’t even cover birth control. Protests, court cases, and new state laws led to dramatic changes. Today, almost all plans now cover prescription contra­ceptives. So does Medicaid, the health care program for low-income people. 
The use of birth control is “vir­tually universal” in the U.S., according to a government report this summer from the National Center for Health Statistics. Nearly 93 million pre­scriptions for contraceptives were dispensed in 2009, accord­ing to IMS Health, a market analysis firm. Generic versions of the pill are available at Walmart stores, for example, for $9 a month. 
Still, about half of all pregnan­cies are unplanned, and many occur among women using some form of contraception. The gov­ernment says the problem is rarely the birth control method, but “inconsistent or incorrect use,” such as forgetting to take a pill. 
Advocates say free birth con­trol would begin to address the problem. 
“We can look at other coun­tries where birth control is avail­able for no cost, and what we see are lower pregnancy rates, lower abortion rates and lower teen pregnancy,” said Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood. 
It would remove a cost barrier that may be keeping women away from more reliable long-acting birth control, and also affects those who don’t do well on inexpensive generics. 
A major research study now taking place in St. Louis provides a glimpse of how things might change. 
The Contraceptive CHOICE Project is providing free birth control to as many as 10,000 women, tracking their decisions and the results. About 70 percent have chosen long-acting contra­ceptives such as IUDs (intrauter­ine devices) or implants, which are reversible and have a much lower failure rate than pills or condoms. The proportion of U.S. women using such methods remains low; part of the reason seems to be higher upfront cost. 

Preachers urge blacks to vote 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — On the Sunday before Election Day, preachers told black church­goers across America to get out and vote — and defy predictions that they’ll be complacent or uninterested in a year that President Barack Obama isn’t on the ballot. 
Tying the vote to nostalgia and obligation, black pastors invoked the civil rights movement and Obama’s his­toric 2008 victory. At Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta — the spiritual home of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. — the Rev. Raphael 
G. Warnock warned atten­dees that not voting would be nothing short of a sin. 
“Go to the polls Tuesday in the name of our ancestors,” Warnock said to cheering listeners who rose to their feet. “Know that your ballot is a blood-stained ballot. This is a sacred obligation.” 
Among those in the pews in black churches across the country were Democratic candidates hoping congrega­tions would heed the mes­sage. Indeed, many pastors and worshippers said this election was more important than 2008, with Democrats struggling to hold on to large majorities in the House and Senate and Obama still working to put his agenda in place. Several voters said in interviews with The Associated Press that they planned to get to the polls, believing Obama needs more time to imple­ment his plans. 
The black electorate, one of the Democratic Party’s most loyal constituencies, voted in record numbers to help elect the country’s first African-American president two years ago, and Democrats are hoping at least some of that enthusi­asm hasn’t faded. Obama has in recent weeks tied a midterm vote for Democrats to continued support for his agenda — even as some can­didates distance themselves from the president, who along with his policies has become less popular with the economy continuing to sputter. 
Polls indicate that minority voters may not turn out at the same level as they did two years ago, but analysts say a solid showing among blacks could still swing sev­eral House, Senate and gubernatorial races, espe­cially in the South. 
Mike Thurmond, currently Georgia’s labor commission­er, currently lags behind popular Republican incum­bent Sen. Johnny Isakson. Thurmond — hoping to become the first black sena­tor elected in Georgia and the first elected in the South since Reconstruction in the 19th century — attended Greater St. Stephen Full Gospel Baptist Church in Atlanta as he made his cam­paign rounds Sunday. Thurmond said the polls are flat wrong. 
“This whole notion about a lack of enthusiasm was an illusion, and a propaganda scheme at worst, designed to depress turnout,” he said. 
At the historic Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church in Montgomery, Alabama, the Rev. Michael Thurman opened his sermon Sunday by asking parishioners to vote. He said he did not endorse any candidates, but he said this election would be even more important than 2008’s historic vote. 
“This one’s going to decide the direction that the nation goes in from here,” Thurman said. 
The sea of negative politi­cal ads — many accusing Democratic candidates of being a rubber stamp for Obama’s agenda — has quelled the enthusiasm of many black voters, said Calvin Johns, a retired med­ical doctor. African-Americans could be espe­cially key to conservative Democrat Bobby Bright, who narrowly won his first term two years ago with the help of black voters. 
“To me it seems like what­ever candidate they are talk­ing about, the negative ads are talking about President Obama,” Johns said. “Most people seem disconnected to the candidates.” 

Monday, November 1, 2010 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
CUBA 

Judge gives former terrorist eight years 
Associated Press 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE — A judge sentenced a former teenage al -Qaida fighter Sunday to eight more years in custody, bound by a plea agreement that com­pelled him to ignore a mili­tary jury that said he should serve 40 years for war crimes that included the killing of an American sol­dier. 
Omar Khadr’s sentencing brings to an end a case that attracted intense scrutiny and criticism because the Canadian prisoner was 15 when he was captured, badly wounded after a fierce firefight at an al-Qaida com­pound in Afghanistan in 2002. 
Khadr stared straight ahead and appeared relaxed as the judge read a sentence that calls for him to stay one more year in Guantanamo before he can ask the Canadian government to allow him to return to his homeland to serve the remainder of his sentence or seek early release on parole. He has been held eight years at Guantanamo but doesn’t get credit for time served. 
The jury of military offi­cers deliberated nearly nine hours over two days and had not been told that a sealed plea deal would mean that their decision would be largely symbolic. 
Military prosecutors, who had portrayed the now 24­year-old Khadr as a danger­ous terrorist, had asked the seven -member jury for a sentence of 25 years — and the accused could have received up to life in prison if convicted of even one of the five war crimes counts against him. 
Navy Capt. John F. Murphy, the chief military prosecutor, said the plea deal included a provision that Khadr cannot appeal, eliminating the possibility of a reversal or even more time being spent on a case that has been winding its way through the Guantanamo tribunals since 2004. He said the govern­ment considered Khadr ’s age and background as the child of a prominent al -Qaida figure in agreeing to the eight-year sentence. 
“I hope it sends a message to any terrorists that if you are involved with serious offenses like this you face the potential of a very seri­ous sentence,” Murphy said. 
Khadr admitted planting 10 roadside bombs in Afghanistan as part of an al-Qaida explosive cell and throwing a grenade that mortally wounded an American special forces medic, Sgt. 1st Class Christopher Speer of Albuquerque, New Mexico. His lawyers and human rights groups said he was a “child soldier,” who should have been sent home long ago for rehabilitation and they challenged the notion that a battlefield killing amounted to a war crime. 
Prosecutors said Khadr was a war criminal because he was not a legitimate sol­dier fighting in Afghanistan but a member of al-Qaida, which hides among civilians, doesn’t represent a country 
or follow internationally accepted principles of war­fare. 
His lawyers said they had no choice but to strike a plea deal given the potential for a long sentence. 
“I think when you look at it we did quite well,” said Marine Col. Jeffrey Colwell, the chief defense counsel. 
The jury began its deliber­ations after nearly a week of testimony that included a wrenching hour of testimony from Speer’s widow about the loss of her husband and a 10-minute statement from Khadr, who apologized to the soldier’s family in his most extensive public state­ments since his capture. 
Speer ’s widow, Tabitha, pumped her fist and cheered “yes! ” when the jury announced its 40-year sen­tence. Then she burst into tears. 
Later, she said that she was relieved to have the case behind her. She called the jury’s verdict “the right thing ” but accepted the eight-year sentence. 
“I miss my husband very, very much. There will never be anyone or anything that can replace or bring him back, but today this helps to close a huge chapter,” Speer said, her voice breaking. “And this is going to help my children and I move for ­ward.” 
Human rights groups said they understood why the defense would accept a plea deal, but said the case would have presented an opportunity to challenge the government’s notion of what constitutes a war crimes, the legality of the harsh interrogations that Khadr and many other prisoners experienced and the overall legitimacy of the Guantanamo tribunals. 
“Having a fake sentence which is basically thrown out the window as soon as the jury leaves the room does not look like fair jus­tice to the rest of the world,” said Andrea Prasow, a a lawyer for Human Rights 
Wa t c h w h o  o b s e r v e d  t h e  
trial.  
I n  O t t a w a ,  M e l i s s a  

Lantsman, a spokeswoman for Canada’s foreign affairs minister, declined to specu­late about when Khadr might return. She said a decision will be made only when he formally applies for a transfer, and he will be treated like any other Canadian. 
Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s Conservative gov­ernment has steadfastly refused to request the return of Khadr, the last Western detainee held at the prison. The reluctance owes partly to Canadians’ ambiva­lence toward the Khadr fam­ily, which has been called “the first family of terror­ism.” 
BRAZIL 
Citizens elect first female president 
Associated Press 
SAO PAULO — A former Marxist guerrilla who was tortured and imprisoned during Brazil’s long dictator­ship was elected Sunday as the first female president of Latin America ’s biggest nation, a country in the midst of a rapid economic and political rise. 
A statement from the Supreme Electoral Court, which oversees elections, said governing party candi­date Dilma Rousseff won the election. 
With nearly all ballots counted, Rousseff had 56 percent of the vote com­pared to just under 44 per­cent for her centrist rival, Jose Serra, the electoral court said. 
In a 25-minute victory speech to jubilant supporters in Brasilia, Rousseff said that her first promise was to “honor the women” of Brazil and that she hoped her win would allow “fathers and mothers to look their daugh­ters in the eyes and say, ‘Yes, a woman can.’” 
Known for her tough and serious demeanor, Rousseff only betrayed emotion when she spoke about President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Brazil’s hugely popular leader the last eight years who chose her as his party’s candidate to succeed him and used all his political will to get her elected. 
“The joy I feel with this victory today is mixed with the emotion of his farewell. I know that a leader like Lula will never be away from his people,” she said, using the president’s nickname as her eyes welled with tears and her voice cracked. “I will always be able to knock on his door and I’m sure that it will always will be open.” 
In his concession speech, Serra said he respected the voters’ decision and wished the president-elect good luck. 
Rousseff, 62, wasn’t sched­uled to make any more appearances Sunday night. 
Beginning Jan. 1, she will lead a nation on the rise, a country that will host the 2014 World Cup and that is expected to be the globe’s fifth-largest economy by the time it hosts the 2016 Summer Olympics. It has also recently discovered huge oil reserves off its coast. 
Silva used his 80 percent approval ratings to cam­paign incessantly for Rousseff, his former chief of staff and political protege. She has never held elected office and lacks the charis­ma that transformed Silva from a one-time shoeshine boy into one of the globe’s most popular leaders. 
Silva was barred by the constitution from running for a third consecutive four-year term. He has batted down chatter in Brazil’s press that he is setting him­self up for a new run at the presidency in 2014, which would be legal. 
Despite Rousseff ’s win, many voters don’t want “Lula,” as he is popularly known, to go away. 
“If Lula ran for president 10 times, I would vote for him 10 times,” said Marisa Santos, a 43-year-old selling her homemade jewelry on a Sao Paulo street. “I’m voting for Dilma, of course, but the truth is it will still be Lula who will lead us.” 
Within 20 minutes of Rousseff ’s victory being announced, her supporters began streaming onto a main avenue in Sao Paulo, where eight years ago a huge gath­ering celebrated Silva’s win, the first time the Workers Party took the presidency. 
ITALY 
Police block Vatican protesters 
Associated Press 
ROME — Italian paramili­tary police have blocked a boulevard leading to the Vatican to prevent a march by some 100 survivors of clergy sex abuse from reaching St. Peter’s Square, but later allowed two pro­testers to leave letters from the abused at the Holy See’s doorstep. 
The two also left a dozen stones near the obelisk in St. Peter’s square Sunday to mark a symbolic path so other survivors might know they have company in their suffering. 
The candlelit protest was the first significant demon­stration in the shadow of the Vatican by people who had been raped and molest­ed by priests as children, and organizers said it would be repeated until the Holy See takes decisive action to ensure children are safe. 
“Today what began as quiet whispers are whis­pers no more,” organizer Gary Bergeron told the crowd, which included about 55 deaf Italians from a notorious Catholic insti­tute for the deaf in Verona where dozens of students say they were sodomized by priests. 
Organizers had tried to stage the march on Vatican soil but were forced to hold it nearby after the Holy See denied permission. It is standard Vatican practice to ban non-Vatican-spon­sored events from St. Peter’s Square. 
Sunday’s protest kicked 
off with the unexpected arrival of the Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, who said he had wanted to greet the organizers and had pre­pared a statement he hoped to read. He beat a hasty retreat to his office after a protester shouted “Shame, shame” in Italian. 
Lombardi said later he left when he saw “it wasn’t going to be easy” to meet with the organizers. 
Bergeron met with Lombardi later inside his Vatican office and told him that abuse survivors had been “waiting a lifetime to be able to stand up and speak out.” 

The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Monday, November 1, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Pigeons 

Over Fall Break I was lucky enough to participate in one the Center for Social Concerns Appalachia Seminar’s in New River Gorge National River, West Virginia. After the daily work my Appalachia family and I would tuck in to a homemade dinner, a crackling fire and maybe some s’mores. One night we decided to have a sleepover in the dining hall of the folk center we were staying at, Sam Stryker laying our mat­tresses out side by News side. Before we Production went to bed we Editor decided to go around the room, telling everyone our greatest fears. For the most part, none were out of the ordinary — one girl was afraid of snakes, a boy was afraid of spi­ders, and another terrified of enclosed spaces. My fear, however, is a little more out of the ordinary — I am terrified of birds, specifically seagulls and pigeons. 

Seagulls and pigeons frighten me for several reasons. First of all, they have no fear. Both will come as close to you as they want, and will only flutter away if you make loud noises and wave your arms and come straight at them like a berserk banshee. Second, both are so dumb you have no idea what they might do. Third, they fly. Rats and mice are just as dirty as pigeons and seagulls, and are as willing to scurry around human populations. However, you never run the risk of a rat or a mouse flying into your hair or landing on your shoul­der and poking out your eye. The com­bination of the three traits is simply hor­rifying. Whenever I am at the beach or walking through the streets of a city, I always make sure to steer clear of seag­ulls and pigeons. Unfortunately, my mom usually has other plans, as she tends to run at either avian terror so that they fly away from her in my direc­tion, causing me to cower in fear. 
However, all hope is not lost for my strange phobias. A long time ago, I was absolutely petrified of dogs. The fact they seem to love to run at humans, barking and jumping all over you stopped me in my tracks. No matter the size of the dog, it got to the point where I would have my mom call my friends parents before a play date to make sure the dog was put away. Whenever I heard a friend or family member was getting a dog, a sinking feeling would set in my stomach. However, over the course of my life I have slowly gained control of my fear. I’m not exactly sure how, but I think I came to grips with the fact that dogs aren’t going to hurt me. While I will never be a dog person, I am not afraid to hang around my friends’ dogs or even pet them (quite the accom­plishment for a male, 19-year-old col­lege student). Hopefully over the course of my life I will somehow come to grips with my fear for pigeons and seagulls. Maybe it will take standing in Saint Mark’s Square in Venice, feeding the dirty birds, but I’m willing to do it. 
There are a lot of ways to show progress in your life — I’ve grown to be six feet tall, I have facial hair (OK, peach fuzz), and I attend an amazing university. Equally as impressive to me is the fact that I no longer have to make the phone call, requesting my friend’s pooch be locked up. I look forward to the day where I am the one sprinting at pigeons and seagulls in jest so they fly in my mom’s direction. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
ND community unites for Declan 
I did not know Declan Sullivan. 
On Wednesday, Declan was killed on campus in an accident involving a hydraulic lift. He was filming football practice for his job as a student man­
ager, and high  
winds caused  Amy Holsinger  
the scissor lift he was filming from to topple  Guest Columnist  
over.  

He was 20 years old. He was a junior majoring in FTT (film, television, and theater) and marketing. He lived in Fisher Hall. 
Thursday, University President Fr. Jenkins presided over a Mass in Declan’s memory in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Mass began at 10 p.m.. I was in a lecture and movie screening for class until 9:45 p.m., and I wasn’t sure if I was going to make it to the Basilica in time to get a seat. I also wasn’t sure if I even wanted to go to the Mass. I did-n’t know Declan, so a part of me thought, “Why should I take a seat from somebody who knew him, loved him, cared about him? Who am I to do that?” But another part of me desper­ately wanted to go to the Mass to show my support for Declan’s family during this horrible, difficult time. That part of me wanted to show the Sullivans that Notre Dame is a place where everybody matters, a place where the spirit of the community links every­body together. I was already running late and I knew that my baseball-cap­and-Ugg-boots attire wouldn’t fly at the Basilica, so I decided to go over to LaFortune Student Center, where I had heard there would be auxiliary seating and a live feed from the Mass. 
As I walked across God Quad in the dark, I watched people walking towards the Basilica, two by two. The doors were wide open, emanating a warm golden glow. I was able to hear the prelude for Declan’s Mass all the way at the flagpole on South Quad, and the sound of the organ became clearer as I crossed through the pine trees and made my way to LaFortune. 
Up the winding staircase, I burst in to LaFortune and brushed past the representatives from the Student Activities Office who tried to usher me upstairs to the ballroom. “We have some seats left up there,” a girl with a nametag whispered. By the time I heard her, I had already set down my backpack near my usual spot in the main lounge. LaFortune was different. Normally, the building serves as a study/food/coffee/socialization/meeting space, and it’s one of the busiest places on campus. But tonight, it was quiet — dimmer, somehow. 
All of the comfy armchairs were occupied, so after lingering against a wall — cornered by a trash can — for a few minutes, I plopped down on the floor like a kindergartener. Mass was beginning. The broadcast was coming through on the two large televisions in the main lounge. (It was available online as well.) During the opening song, the SAO folks brought out a number of chairs from another room, and I snapped up a seat just as Fr. Jenkins was greeting the Sullivan fam­ily. 
Then, the oddest thing began to hap­pen. Everyone in the room began to respond to the TV, just like Mass. 
Peace be with you. 
“And also with you.” 
I don’t know if it was reflex, a gen­uine desire to participate in the Mass, or some combination of both. All of a sudden, I found myself in the midst of the celebration of the Eucharist in the same room where I drink coffee, read the paper, watch ESPN and play Sporcle. 
Notre Dame is very good at a lot of things, and one of those things is church. Notre Dame knows how to put on a great Mass, and the higher-ups pulled out all the stops for Declan. The Folk Choir provided beautiful music for the service. I was particularly impressed with the selection of the readings. The first reading was Romans 8:31-39 (“If God is for us, who can be against us?”). The gospel read­ing was John 14:1-14 (“I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.”). 
Father Tom Doyle, Vice President for Student Affairs, gave the homily. He spoke eloquently and simply about sto­rytelling — about Declan’s love of telling stories through film and about the feeling that we have been “written out of the book of life” that accompa­nies loss and grief. 
“Most days, we live in this place that is like Eden before the fall,” Doyle said. 
Normally, bad things don’t happen here. Students joke about the “Notre Dame bubble” for a reason. When ter­rible things hit Notre Dame, it seems that much worse. 
As I watched the Mass on TV from my chair in the LaFortune, I noticed that the camera kept panning out to the people sitting in the pews at the Basilica. The Sullivan family sat in the front row. Gwyneth, Declan’s sister, wore a Notre Dame football jersey and Mac, Declan’s 15-year-old brother, wore a Notre Dame sweatshirt. Across the aisle, the men of Fisher Hall sat in the other front section, all with their trademark neon green retro sunglass­es pushed back into messy brown waves and perched on blonde crew-cuts. Fishermen wear these distin­guishing sunglasses around campus all the time, so seemed appropriate that they wore their shades to Mass in memory of their hallmate. The Notre Dame football team sat behind the contingent from Fisher Hall. 
During the Eucharistic Prayer, LaFortune was filled with the mutter­ings of hundreds of students. 
Lift up your hearts. 
“We lift them up to the Lord.” 
When it came time for the Our Father, the Folk Choir sang the beauti­ful Notre Dame Our Father. LaFortune joined hands and joined in. Then, everyone got out of their seats for the sign of peace. Hugs and handshakes all around. 
The SAO employees notified us that the Eucharist was being distributed outside the Basilica and that we could leave and come back. After a moment of hesitation, about 75 percent of the room stood up, grabbed coats, and quietly filed out of the room. I was near the door, so I made it out quickly. Down the stairs, across the quad, towards the music and light. There were hundreds of people already standing outside the Basilica — over­flow. Outside, there were musicians performing acoustic versions of the songs playing inside. As I huddled around the front of the Basilica, I turned around. A massive block of stu­dents stretched all the way from the foot of the Basilica to the stairs of LaFortune, and people continued to stream out of the building from the ballroom on the second floor. 
We stood patiently, quietly in the cold. Occasionally, a priest would emerge from the big Basilica doors. People gathered around eagerly as the priest distributed Communion. Nobody jostled, nobody complained. We just waited. Slowly, more priests came out. After I received Communion, I walked back to LaFortune. I counted six priests standing outside, each man completely surrounded by students waiting for the Eucharist. 
I made it back to LaFortune just in time for the final blessing. 
The Mass is ended, go in peace to love and serve the Lord. 
“Thanks be to God.” 
And then, as always, we sang the alma mater, arms around each other, swaying. 
Notre Dame, Our Mother 
Tender, strong and true 
Proudly in the heavens 
Gleams thy gold and blue. 
Glory’s mantle cloaks thee 
Golden is thy fame. 
And our hearts forever 
Praise thee, Notre Dame. 
And our hearts forever 
Love thee, Notre Dame. 
The fervent prayers of the Notre Dame community are with Declan Sullivan and his family. 
A night like this should never have to happen again. 
Amy Holsinger is a junior. She can be contacted at aholsing@nd.edu 
This column originally ran in her per­sonal blog. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Skiing combines outdoor fun withknocking down trees with yourface.” 
Dave Barry 
U.S. humorist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We are advertis’d by our lovingfriends.” 
William ShakespeareEnglish dramatist 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Monday, November 1, 2010 page 9 
Why you should vote for Donnelly 
Joe Donnelly is the Democratic congress­man of the 2nd district of Indiana that includes Notre Dame, South Bend, Elkhart and surrounding rural areas. He is a proud Catholic and a “double domer,” with an undergraduate and law degree Chris from Notre Dame. Rhodenbaugh 
Joe Donnelly, 

In Pursuit of
despite his flaws, 

Social Justice
is the unique type of candidate that should receive votes from constituents across the political spectrum. 
If you are a progressive Democrat: 

The first thoughts that come to mind might be that Congressman Donnelly voted against the cap and trade bill, as well as ending Don’t Ask Don’t Tell. Donnelly is endorsed by the NRA, he refers to undocu­mented immigrants as illegals, and he con­tinues to support the war in Afghanistan. All of these are undoubtedly disturbing and make it difficult to garner much enthusiasm for someone who votes like moderate Republicans would, if they still existed in Congress. However, Joe Donnelly is a good man caught up in bad political times. He is also beating all of the political odds by being in a position to win as a Democratic incumbent in a Republican leaning district. 
He must be commended for fighting for the people of the 2nd district by voting for the Recovery Act, the health care bill and the financial reform bill. While these three bills were far from perfect they each took a step in the right direction. The stimulus has “increased the number of people employed between 1.4 million and 3.3 million,” according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, and helped avert crises in state governments trying to pay teachers, police officers and firefighters across the country. The health care bill ended the worst of insurance company abuses like discriminating based on pre-existing condi­tions or denying claims without the oppor­tunity to have an independent review. The bill also allows students to stay on their parents insurance until they are 26, will make health insurance available to 30 mil­lion more Americans and makes preventa­tive care like screenings and vaccinations free. The financial reform bill created the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, a major victory for consumers who will now be better protected from exploitative prac­tices in the financial industry. The bill also creates important rules on derivatives trad­ing, mortgage lending and credit rating agencies that will help prevent a future financial meltdown. 
There is a debate raging in the progres­sive community across the country about whether or not to support conservative Democrats. While supporting more left-wing opposition in a primary makes sense, staying home on Election Day because the Democrat is too conservative does not. As a resident of the 2nd district you have the choice between State Senator Jackie Walorski, a blindly partisan candidate who will ignore your interests, or Congressman Donnelly, a bipartisan congressman who will be open minded to supporting the pres­ident and make a meaningful assessment of the district’s preferences before voting. Donnelly voted for health care because he 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Thank you, Declan 
I have, from time to time, lost faith in my Notre Dame community. I have loved this school for my entire life, so take the former statement as all the more profound. I have felt that our campus is divided against itself in 80 different ways. I have felt that our campus is at war with itself. I have felt that the people on this campus care more about the lack of success that plagues our football team than they do about issues of humanity that affect the world every day. I feel that we are slowly slipping away from the ideals that Notre Dame was built upon, survived on, and currently pro­motes as the true spirit of our student body. 
Two hours ago all of that changed. Two hours ago, the memorial service for Mr. Declan Sullivan commenced. As the entire campus knows, the stu­dent body flooded the Basilica, over­flowed into the LaFun Ballroom, and even had to listen outside. Others, like myself, watched the memorial service from the live feed online. For an hour, the entire campus stood still as we all came together to celebrate the life of Declan Sullivan, and to help his family and friends begin the mourning process. 
I never had the privilege to meet Declan, but I have spent the last sev­eral hours thanking God for this soul that could be so inspiring. For though I never met this man, he restored my faith in this university. Though I never knew him, I found myself cry­ing through his service as if I had known him my entire life. I found my heart was aching for his family, and as I scanned the faces in the crowd that filled the Basilica, I knew that the entire group felt the same way. I felt the power of the entire student body spreading their prayers over his family, his friends, his dorm mates. For the first time in a long time, I felt this community united. 
On this day we didn’t belong to a race. We had no political standing. We were not gay or straight. We were not A-students or the “C’s get degrees” crowd. We weren’t pro-life or pro-choice. We weren’t pro-Brian Kelly or anti-Brian Kelly. We just were. For a brief moment, we were undivided. We were the Notre Dame community that I so long to be a part of. 
I challenge the student body to remain that way, honor of the man who had a soul so strong to call us back to who we are. Remember that we must support one another, not tear each other down as we are so often tempted to do. Remember that we are united through all, and that our minor disagreements should never be allowed to prevent us from standing together as one community. And when one of our community falls, remember that they are always one of our own. We feel the pain of a family’s loss because we have indeed lost a family member. 
Remember Declan Sullivan, whose influence is so strong that an entire community of 8000-plus people came together to celebrate his life. For this, he is truly the embodiment of the Notre Dame spirit. To his family, thank you for sharing such an amaz­ing person with the Notre Dame fam­ily; my prayers and the prayers of the entire community are with you. To Declan: thank you. Thank you for restoring my faith in my Notre Dame family. Thank you for reminding us of who we are. 
For at the end of the day, we are but one simple thing: We are ND — united in the memory of one of our faithfully fallen. 
Jim Ropa 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Oct. 29 
could not resist the relentless pressure from his voting base in the district to vote for the bill. 
If Jackie Walorski is your congresswoman no amount of phone calling, office visits or demonstrations will make her vote with the president. She is the Michelle Bachmann of Indiana and will have no qualms bringing national attention to the 2nd district with her radical perspective. Walorski is a proud member of the tea party, an enthusiastic supporter of the Arizona immigration law, believes in a spending freeze on everything but defense, wants to extend all the Bush tax cuts indefinitely and she believes in pri­vatizing social security. In the first debate of the race she justified her denial of global warming as a threat to the country by say­ing she has consulted Indiana farmers on the issue. Not to mention, she bragged at the debate about always carrying a gun in her purse, even though she was nice enough to “know and respect the laws” and not bring one into the high school where the debate was held. 
Joe Donnelly is far from ideal, but he will listen to his progressive constituents, while his opponent is one of the most radical Republican candidates running for office in 2010, a scary thought. 
If you are an independent or moderate Republican: 
Joe Donnelly, an outspoken “Blue Dog Democrat,” represents a disappearing breed of bipartisan members of Congress, a sharp contrast to his hyper-partisan oppo­nent. Blue Dog Democrats are conservative Democrats that prioritize lowering the deficit, and vote conservatively on social issues. 
Joe Donnelly is uniformly pro-life, oppos­ing abortion and embryonic stem cell research. He is known for being an advo­cate for veterans and small businesses with his position on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Donnelly was instrumental in writing the Veterans’ Benefits Act of 2010 that included language that raises supplemental coverage for severely disabled veterans by 50 percent. In September he wrote language in the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act of 2010 in response to a critical local small business problem. The language altered a tax penal­ty provision that would have destroyed an asphalt business in the district and unfairly penalized companies across the country. 
This year’s election to many is about which members of Congress vote in line with their party leadership and which members put their district before party pri­orities. Donnelly has proven that he stands firmly with the 2nd district. The South Bend area needs a member of Congress that will listen and that is why the Indianapolis Star endorsed Congressman Donnelly saying, “Beneath the noise of a nationalized cam­paign heavy with attack ads, Donnelly’s record shows moderation and willingness to listen to constituents. He deserves to stay on the job.” 
Chris Rhodenbaugh is a senior. He can be contacted at rhodenbaugh.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Workplace accountability 
As the mother of a son who works in videog­raphy, I’m personally saddened by the recent death of videographer Declan Sullivan at Notre Dame. This hits close to home because our own son also has videotaped from a scis­sor lift in windy conditions. 
The Holy Cross order has a history of upholding social justice throughout the world, which can be seen in the 1966 photograph of Fr. Theodore Hesburgh with Martin Luther King, Jr., which now is in the Smithsonian Institute. Our son was the one who retouched that again, now-famous photograph. Notre Dame embraced the rights of farm workers to safe, healthy work conditions. In fact, the March 1969 conference for farm worker’s rights I attended met at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame. Notre Dame’s worldwide concern for the workers who provide coffee, tea and chocolate to the U.S. prompted us to begin buying the Fair Trade varieties of these prod­ucts. Notre Dame’s commitment to Center for the Homeless and to many other good works demonstrates that both the Holy Cross order and the University of Notre Dame care about human rights and social justice. 
Having established that Notre Dame does care about workers’ rights, I would like to say that a deeper look needs to be taken at how the university locally views its own workers. It is possible to be very good about global justice issues but to have a blind spot close to home. 
Declan Sullivan clearly communicated that he was terrified before he died. Why didn’t he feel free to consider his own safety and come down? The necessary investigation into how this tragic accident occurred, however, should not turn into a witch hunt to find scapegoats to blame. A larger picture needs to be evaluated. The Holy Cross order and Notre Dame as a whole need to examine the pressure they have allowed the Culture of Wealth to put on their employees. By Culture of Wealth, I mean the frame of mind that classifies some people as more important than others — those who wield power, influence or capital. An example from 23 years ago: A dark-skinned older woman came to Mass every morning, always alone. One day she confided that no one, not even the priests who served at that Holy-Cross-run parish, ever smiled or talked to her, for 18 years! She observed that they always were busy with wealthier parishioners. 
It appears that some decisions at Notre Dame have been infected by an over-riding concern for the bottom line. In a word, money may be the tail that wags the dog at Notre Dame, despite its long history of upholding social justice. From this mindset comes an attitude that regards the workers at Notre Dame as replaceable commodities. This seemed evident in the way that former football coach Lou Holtz was fired. If Notre Dame wants winning football teams again, it needs to get back to its original vision of treating all people in a Christ-like manner, including all of its employees. 
The Culture of Wealth at Notre Dame, in addition to distorting the importance of money over people, encourages an undo concern for the cultivation of image. Many years ago, I contributed $200 of my earnings to Sacred Heart Parish in order that a feasibility study might be conducted to determine if an eleva­tor could be built that would make the Crypt, the basement church below the Basilica, more accessible to the parish’s elderly and handi­capped parishioners. “Handicapped access” to Sacred Heart Parish consisted of a degrading and dangerous labyrinth below the Basilica. Most parishioners who lost the ability to nego­tiate the steps down into the Crypt chose to attend Mass elsewhere, or not at all. My con­tribution remains in escrow. Nothing was done with my money, I was told, because Notre Dame’s main concern was to make sure that all of the architecture on campus was consis­tent. (Why not use matching bricks for the ele­vator?) Concern for maintaining a sophisticat­ed image should not rank ahead of the elderly or the handicapped. What most needs to be consistent at Notre Dame is the Golden Rule, not just an image or posh external appear­ances. Notre Dame is accountable for model­ing the words of Jesus, “treat others as you want to be treated,” in the workplace and in life. 
Kathleen Ferrore 
Oct. 29 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Monday, November 1, 2010 page 10 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'We will never forget him' 

To the Sullivan Family, and to the entire Notre Dame student body: 
We, as members of the Notre Dame faculty, wish to express our grief, shock and horror at the death of Declan Sullivan. Our hearts and sympathy go out to you all. Many of us feel bereft and helpless in the face of this terrible tragedy. 
Declan’s untimely death, and what we have learned of his life, promise and talents, remind us that every one of our students is precious and absolutely 
irreplaceable. We promise that, whether or not we knew Declan personally, we will never forget him. 
With love, sympathy and solidarity,  
Members of the Notre Dame Faculty  
Abigail Palko  Dolores Warwick Frese  Julia Marvin  
Gender Studies  English  Program of Liberal Studies  
Alexandra Guisinger  Eileen Hunt Botting  Julianne Turner  
Political Science  Political Science  Psychology  
Allyssa Gillespie  Elliott Visconsi  Karen Graubart  
German & Russian  English; Law School  History  
Alvin Plantinga  Encarnación Juárez-Almendros  Kate Marshall  
Philosophy  Romance Languages &  English  
Andrea Topash-Rios  Literatures  Kathleen Cummings  
Romance Languages &  Essaka Joshua  American Studies  
Literatures  College Seminar; English  Kevin Barry  
Ann Marie R. Power  Fr. Joseph P. Amar  Kaneb Center  
Sociology  Classics; Theology  Kevin Mongrain  
Annie Gilbert Coleman  Fr. Tom Blantz, CSC  Prog. of Liberal Studies  
American Studies  History  Kristin M. Hager  
Asher Kaufman  Gail Bederman  Biology  
History & Peace Studies  History; Gender Studies  Lance R. Askildson  
Ava Preacher  Geoff Layman  Center for Study of  
A&L Office for Undergrad.  Political Science  Languages & Culture  
Studies  Gil-li Vardi  Larissa Fast  
Barbara Green  History  Kroc Institute & Sociology  
English  Gretchen Reydams-Schils  Laura Bayard  
Barbara J. Fick  Prog. of Liberal Studies  Hesburgh Libraries  
Law School  Hannelore Weber  Lauren Faulkner  
Ben A. Heller  German; Russian  History  
Romance Languages  Heidi Ardizzone  Linda Przybyszewski  
Benedict Giamo  Former Faculty Member  History  
American Studies  Hildegund Muller  Lionel M. Jensen  
Bill Miscamble, CSC  Classics  East Asian Languages &  
History  Ines Callalli  Culture  
Bob Jones, Jr.  Romance Languages &  Lyn Spillman  
Law School  Literature  Sociology  
Bryan Smith  Ireneusz Janik  Maha Houssami  
Mathematics  Rad. Lab.  Classics  
Carl Palmer  Jacqueline Vaught Brogan  Mahan Mirza  
Political Science  English  Classics  
Carlos Jerez-Farrán  James Sterba  Marc Rodriguez,  
Romance Languages &  Philosophy  History  
Literatures  James Turner  Margaret Doody  
Carolina Arroyo  History  English  
Political Science  Janet Kourany  Margaret Porter  
Carolyn Nordstrom  Philosophy  Hesburgh Libraries  
Anthropology  Jason Ruiz  Marina Smyth  
Catherine Bolton  American Studies  Medieval Studies Librarian  
Anthropology; Peace Studies  Jay Brandenberger  Mary Ann McDowell  
Catherine Perry  Center For Social Concerns;  Biology; Eck Institute  
Romance Languages &  Psychology  Mary Beckman  
Literatures  Jayanta Sengupta  Center for Social Concerns;  
Catherine Zuckert  History  Economics  
Political Science  Jean A. Dibble  Matt Benedict  
Charles Barber  Art, Art History & Design  English  
Art, Art History & Design  Jennifer Nemecek  Matthew V. Storin  
Charles M. Rosenberg  International Admissions  American Studies  
Art History  Liason  Maureen Boulton  
Chiara Sbordoni  Jennifer Tanks  Romance Languages  
Romance Languages &  Biology  Noreen Deane-Moran  
Literatures  Jerry L. Walls  English  
Christine Becker  Philosophy  Olivia Remie Constable  
Film, Television & Theatre  Jessica Collett  History; Medieval Institute  
Christopher Fox  Sociology  Pamela Robertson Wojcik  
English  Jessica Graham  Film, Television & Theatre  
Clark Power  History  Patricia Blanchette  
Prog. of Liberal Studies  Jessica Kayongo  Philosophy  
Dan Graff  Reference Librarian;  Patrick Wimmer  
History  Anthropology  German; Russian  
Dan Lindley  Jessica Payne  Patrick Clauss  
Political Science  Psychology  Writing Program  
David Hachen  Jim McKenna  Patrick Martin  
Sociology  Anthropology  Romance Languages &  
Dawn M. Gondoli  Jim Smyth  Literature  
Psychology  History  Patrick Vivirito  
Deb Rotman  John M. Duffy  Romance Languages &  
Anthropology  English  Literature  
Deborah Tor  John Van Engen  Paul Kollman, CSC  
History  History  Theology  
Denise M. DellaRossa  Jon Coleman  Peri E. Arnold  
German; Russian  History  Political Science  
Denise Shorey  Jonathan Boulton  Richard Pierce  
Hesburgh Libraries  History  History; Africana Studies  
Dian Murray  Judith Fox  Robert E. Sullivan  
History  Law School  History  
Dianne Pinderhughes  Julia Douthwaite  Robert Fishman  
Africana Studies; Political  Romance Languages &  Sociology  
Science  Literature  Robert Schmuhl  

American Studies 
Ruth Abbey 
Romance Languages & Literatures 
Samantha Noel 
Art History 
Sandra Gustafson 
English 
Sara L. Maurer 
English 
Sarah McKibben 
Irish Language & Literature 
Sean T. O’Brien 
Keough -Naughton Inst of Irish Studies 
Semion Lyandres 
History 
Sharon Schierling 
Kellogg Institute 
Sherri Jones 
Libraries 
Sophie White 
American Studies 
Sr. Peg Oravez, SSJ 
Master of Divinity Program 
Stephen Fredman 
English 
Stephen M. Hayes 
Hesburgh Libraries 
Steve Tomasula 
English 
Stuart Greene 
English; Center For Social Concerns 
Susan Blum 
Anthropology 
Susan Cannon Harris 
English 
Susan Fullerton Shirey 
Electrical Engineering 
Susan St. Ville 
Kroc Institute for Int’l Peace Studies 
Susan Youens 
Music 
Susannah Monta 
English 
Sylwia Ptasinska 
Physics 
Ted Beatty 
History 
Thomas P. Flint 
Philosophy 
Tobias Boes 
German 
Tom Hall 
English 
Tom Kselman 
History 
Tom Stapleford 
Prog. of Liberal Studies 
Valerie Sayers 
English 
Vania Smith-Oka 
Anthropology 
Vera D. Profit 
German; Russian 
Vincent Phillip Munòz 
Political Science 
William J. Abraham 
Philosophy 
William Krier 
English 
William O’Rourke 
English 
Yael Prizant 
Film, Television & Theatre 
Notre Dame faculty members who wish to sign the letter should send their request, with their name and department affiliation, to gbederma@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Scene

Monday, November 1, 2010 page 11 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 1, 2010 
NFL 

Garrard leads Jaguars to victory over Cowboys 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — David Garrard and the Jacksonville Jaguars became the latest to take advantage of the crum­bling Dallas Cowboys. 
They sure made it look easy, too. 
Garrard tied a club record with four touchdown passes and ran for another while nar­rowly missing a perfect quar­terback rating, leading the Jaguars to a 35-17 victory over the Cowboys on Sunday. 
Tony Romo could only watch from the sideline, his left arm in a sling because of a broken col­larbone, as the Cowboys (1-5) continued their worst start since 1989. The disturbing part for Dallas is that this one wasn’t even close; all previous losses were by a touchdown or less. It wasn’t even as close as the final score indicates. 
The Cowboys were within 14­3 and inside the 1-yard line just before halftime when new start­ing quarterback Jon Kitna turned right and Marion Barber went left. There was a handoff, a collision and an easy goal-line stand for Jacksonville (4-4). Garrard opened the second half with touchdowns on his first two drives, making it 28-3, and the result never was in doubt again. 
The Jaguars were coming off losses by 22 and 27 points, with Garrard having missed the last game recovering from a concus­sion. Now they head into their bye feeling good and hoping this can be a springboard into the second half of their season. 
Garrard completed his first 12 passes, finally misfiring early in the third quarter only to avoid a sack. He threw his third TD on the next snap. He finished 17 of 21 for 260 yards. Even with three sacks and a lost fumble his rating was 157.8; perfect is 158.3. 
Mike Sims-Walker caught eight passes for career-high 153 yards and a touchdown, which he celebrated by standing on the Cowboys’ logo in the end zone and flashing the Hook ‘em Horns hand gesture. Marcedes Lewis caught two touchdown passes and Mike Thomas had the other TD grab. 
Helpless against the pass, Dallas wasn’t any better against the run. Maurice Jones-Drew ran 27 times for 135 yards, becoming the fourth runner to crack 100 this season against a Cowboys defense that never allowed one last season. 
Jacksonville’s defense, mean­while, intercepted four passes 
— as many as it had all season. The first three bounced off the hands of a Cowboys receiver. 
About the only big mistake by the Jaguars was safety Don Carey making a helmet-to-hel­met hit on Dallas tight end Jason Witten. Carey wound up sprawled on the turf, hit with an unnecessary roughness penalty and likely to be fined by the NFL. After being examined, Cary bounced to his feet but didn’t return because of a neck injury. The lopsided score made his return unnecessary anyway. 
Kitna was making his first start since 2008 and was look­ing for his first win since ‘07. He made some nice throws, but was undone by the drops­turned-interceptions and a defense that couldn’t keep the game close. 
He was 34 of 49 for 379 yards, with one touchdown. Miles Austin had 117 yards receiving and Witten had 97 and the TD. The running game provided little relief, with Felix Jones and Barber combining for 38 yards on 17 carries. 
Dallas gave up 15.6 points per game last season, second-fewest in the NFL. With the only lineup change at safety, the unit is near the bottom of the league, especially after giving up 41 and 35 in its last two games. That doesn’t bode well for the confidence in coach Wade Phillips, who also is the defensive coordinator. 
The Cowboys have their first four-game losing streak since 2002. They’re also 0-4 at home this season and 6-6 overall at the $1.2 billion Cowboys Stadium. 
The crowd was much smaller than usual, kept away by Dallas’ lousy record, the lousy outlook without Romo and the Jags not being much of a draw. A shift in allegiance to the Texas Rangers in the World Series could be a factor, too. 
The mood was summed up by two fans holding this sign, which somehow made it onto the humongous video boards: “Hurry up Cowboys, I have a Rangers game to go to.” Some of the biggest cheers were for a beefy, mustachioed fan wearing a blonde wig and a skimpy Cowboys cheerleader outfit, bare midriff and all. He proved so popular that he was shown several times, including the kiss-cam segment; he got the smooch, too. 

Chants of “Let’s go Rangers! Let’s go Rangers!” broke out in the second quarter and again in the third. By the fourth, there were hardly enough people left to even make boos echo. 
NFL 

Crosby, Green Bay shut out Jets in New York 
Associated Press  The wind might have caused some problems for both teams’  ceptions — both on disputed calls — and had at least four passes  quarter when Tramon Williams ripped the ball out of Cotchery’s  were done in by their seven penal­ties and three turnovers.  
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.  — passing  and  kicking  games.  dropped by receivers.  hands while the two were on the  The Jets took a huge gamble on  
The New York Jets came out of  Crosby and the Jets’ Nick Folk  The Jets had a nice drive end in  ground for an interception. The  fourth-and-18 from their own 20  
their bye-week break with one big  missed field goal attempts, while  the fourth quarter when Dustin  play was challenged by Rex Ryan,  early in the game as punter Steve  
dud.  Sanchez and Rodgers misfired  Keller  caught  a  pass  from  but upheld by replay review.  Weatherford took off on a fake  
Mason Crosby kicked three field  often with balls sailing past  Sanchez, rolled and then had the  Green Bay got down to the Jets  and sprinted along the right side- 
goals for Green Bay, and that was  receivers.  ball grabbed out of his hands by  23, but David Harris sacked  line for what initially appeared to  
all the Packers needed as they  After turning the ball over on  Charles Woodson.  Rodgers for a 9-yard loss on sec- be a first down. But Packers coach  
held the rested but sloppy Jets off  downs, the Jets held the Packers  The Packers cornerback jogged  ond-and-10. Two plays later,  Mike McCarthy challenged, and  
the scoreboard for a 9-0 victory  to a three-and-out and had one  into the end zone while several  Crosby was wide left on a 45-yard  referees  ruled  Weatherford  
Sunday.  more chance to get into the end  players on both teams looked  field goal try, keeping it 3-0 with  stepped out of bounds a yard short  
Mark Sanchez and the Jets’  zone trailing 6-0 with less than 4  around bewildered. Woodson was  1:48 remaining in the opening  of the first-down marker.  
offense couldn’t get much of any- minutes left.  later ruled down by contact at the  half.  The Packers took over at the  
thing going as New York, which  Following  a  5-yard  run  by  Packers 43.  It was a brutal first half for both  Jets 36 after the change of posses- 
entered tied for the league’s best  LaDainian Tomlinson, Jerricho  Replays showed it appeared  teams. Green Bay gained 123  sion and Rodgers immediately  
record, had its five-game winning  Cotchery couldn’t hold onto a long  Keller was down and it should not  yards of net offense and went 0 for  connected with Greg Jennings for  
streak end. The Jets (5-2) were  pass from Sanchez, who was  have been an interception, but  7 on third downs. The Jets had  a 30-yard completion. But New  
shut out for the first time since a  sacked on the next play by Clay  New York was out of challenges  148 yards, routinely started deep  York’s defense stifled Green Bay,  
10-0 loss to Chicago on Nov. 19,  Matthews. Sanchez was then  after using them both in the first  in their own territory and went 3  which settled for a 20-yard field  
2006, at home.  incomplete, and the Packers took  half.  for 9 on third downs. They were  goal by Crosby that gave the  
Aaron Rodgers and the Packers  over.  The Packers capitalized on the  also penalized five times and had  Packers a 3-0 lead with 4:41  
(5-3) didn’t exactly light things up,  Crosby sealed it with a 40-yard  turnover when Crosby gave them  two turnovers.  remaining in the opening quarter.  
either, but did just enough to win  field goal with 27 seconds left.  a 6-0 lead with a 41-yard field  It didn’t get much better in the  It was the first points New York  
their second straight — a snoozer  Rodgers finished 15 of 34 for  goal with 6:36 remaining.  second half for either team. The  allowed in the first quarter this  
on  blustery day  at  the New  170 yards, while Sanchez was 16  The Jets had another promising  Packers finished with 237 total  season  —  and enough for Green  
Meadowlands Stadium.  of 38 for 256 yards and two inter- drive short-circuited in the second  yards. The Jets had 360  — but  Bay to win.  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  
FOR SALE  FOR RENT  River house for rent. 3BR 2BA with  PERSONAL  go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If  
river frontage. 10 miles east of ND  you or someone you love needs  
House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq ft  confidential support or assistance,  
Chess Lessons: USCF and FIDE  IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS  on Jefferson. Grad student pre  If you or someone you care about  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  
(International Chess Federation)  home. 4BR 3.5BA. Furniture ?, fully  New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi  or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  
Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess  from ND, next to Taco Bell on  ferred. $1170 574-255-0322  has been sexually assaulted, we  information, visit ND's website at:  
Champion and coach of 1997/8 K-8  redone. $365K 574-232-2211 on  SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran­ http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu.  
National Championship team  ite countertops, GE appliances  ————————————————  can help. For more information, visit  ————————————————  
Dennis Monokroussos is offering  web at 610.sbrp.us  w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath.  AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME  
lessons to players of all ages and  Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No  Notre Dame's website:  “It's lack of faith that makes people  
levels (local and online). Please  water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting.  FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND  afraid of meeting challenges, and I  
contact historicchess@comcast.net  Call JSK Development 574-387­ http://csap.nd.edu.  believed in myself.”  
for rates and information.  4466.  574-876-6333  -Muhammad Ali  
————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  

Monday, November 1, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
NFL 

Favre injured, knocked out in Patriots win 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Broken play. Quarterback scrambles away from the rush, spins to elude another defender and chucks it down-field. 
Not Brett Favre: Tom Brady. 
The Patriots quarterback showed he can sling it like the ol’ gunslinger, connecting with Brandon Tate for a 65­yard touchdown on a broken play as New England beat the Minnesota Vikings 28-18 on Sunday and knocked Favre 
out of the game in the process. 
“I really can’t complain, although I probably should,” said Favre, who left in the fourth quarter with a cut on his chin that he said needed eight stitches. “I have a bro­ken foot. I have eight stitches in my chin. I’ve had tendinitis in my elbow, but I threw it as well as I have all season.” 
Backup Tarvaris Jackson threw for a touchdown on his first play and a 2-point con­version on his second, but he didn’t get the ball back until the two-minute warning had sounded and the Vikings trailed by 10. Favre was 22 for 32 for 259 yards, throw­ing an interception on a tipped ball and taking two intentional grounding penal­ties when he tried to avoid sacks. 
Favre, who has started an NFL-record 292 consecutive game, said he expected to play next week against Arizona. 
“I hope Favre’s OK,” Brady said. 
BenJarvus Green-Ellis scored two touchdowns — the first multi-touchdown game of his career — get­ting his first on a 13-yard run to make it 21-10. Favre then drove Minnesota (2-5) to the New England 3 yard -line before he was flattened by defensive lineman Myron Pryor. 
Jackson relieved him and threw a 1-yard touchdown pass to Naufahu Tahi on the first play, then hit Percy Harvin for the 2-point con­version that made it 21-18. But Brady engineered a 13­play, 80 -yard drive, with Green-Ellis getting cart­wheeled into the end zone to make it 28-18 with just 1:56 left. 
Green-Ellis ran 17 times for 112 yards to give the Patriots (6-1) their fifth straight victo­ry. Brady completed 16 of 27 passes for 240 yards, includ­ing an ad-libbed touchdown pass to Tate that gave New England the lead for good with 8 minutes left in the third quarter. 
It was the first TD catch of Tate’s career. 
“That ’s a pretty basic scramble situation,” Patriots coach Bill Belichick said. “It really was not a very well-run play. But (we) made the best of a bad situation.” 
Adrian Peterson carried 25 times for 92 yards, and Harvin caught six passes for 104 yards for the Vikings despite missing about a quar­ter with an ankle injury. 
Former Patriot Randy Moss had just one catch for 8 yards in his first trip back to Foxborough since he talked himself out of town on Oct. 6. After the game, he talked with Belichick on the field and the two shared a long hug. 
“I miss every last helmet in that locker room,” he said. “Coach Belichick gave me a chance to be a part of some­thing special, and I take that to heart.” 
A week after a hit left him with two fractures in his left foot, the 41-year-old Favre started against the Patriots but couldn’t finish. 
Pryor slammed him to the turf, and Favre was slow to get up. He was eventually taken from the field by train­ers who held a towel to his face, then driven to the lock­er room on a cart. 
Favre, who also faces a league investigation into whether he sent sexual text messages to a former New York Jets employee, took another hard hit at the end of the first quarter, when he rolled to his right and threw for Greg Lewis in the end zone. The pass was incom­plete, but Favre was hit in the head from Patriots line­backer Gary Guyton, a penal­ty that gave the Vikings a first-and-goal from the 6. 
Peterson ran 5 yards, and then gained a bruising yard on the first play of the second quarter to make it 7-7. The Vikings brought it to the Patriots’ 1 yard-line in the final minutes of the half, but Brandon Spikes and Jermaine Cunningham stuffed Peterson for a 2-yard loss on fourth­and-1 to keep the game tied at the half. 
But it was the usually immobile Brady who made plays with his feet, high-step­ping away from one diving pass-rusher and then spin­ning away from another before seeing Tate streaking down the left sideline behind the defense. Brady lofted it to him, and Tate cut across the field to outrun two defenders to the end zone for his first career touchdown reception. 
“I just caught a glimpse of him as I spinned out of it and he was open,” said Brady, who has 237 career TD pass­es, tying him with Jim Kelly for 17th on the NFL career list. “It was great to see the back of his jersey, running. That was pretty sweet.” 

Favre, who threw three interceptions in a loss to Green Bay last week, had his only interception on a short pass that bounced out of Harvin ’s gut and into the arms of Devin McCourty, who ran 37 yards before he was brought down at the Vikings’ 
37. Four plays later, Green-Ellis ran it in from 13-yards out to give New England a 21-10 lead. 


NFL 

49ers, Smith defeat Broncos 24-16 in London game 
passes in the fourth quarter to lowing a scramble. Trophy winner from Ohio State, the 83,941 fans. While spectators 
Associated Press 
lead the 49ers to a 24-16 win Less than 5 minutes later, found out only a few days ago were dressed in a myriad of NFL 

WEMBLEY, England — Troy over the Denver Broncos on Smith threw a 28-yard touch-that he was going to start at colors, the majority were cheer-
Smith needed three quarters to Sunday. down pass to Michael Crabtree Wembley because Alex Smith was ing for San Francisco. 
find his range in his first start as Trailing 10-3 and struggling all with 7:23 left to put San diagnosed with a separated This is the fourth straight year 
a 49er. Once he did, San day, Smith tied the score by rush-Francisco (2-6) ahead 17-10. shoulder. And he struggled in the the NFL has played a regular-sea-
Francisco rallied to victory in the ing for a 1-yard touchdown after Frank Gore scored another TD first half, completing 4 of 9 passes son game in London. And with 
NFL’s fourth regular-season game completing back-to-back passes with 3:47 to go, running in from for 37 yards. another packed Wembley assured 
in London. to Delanie Walker, the first for 27 the 3. He finished with 196 yards on in the buildup, NFL Smith completed three long yards and the second for 38 fol-Smith, the 2006 Heisman 12-of-19 passing. Commissioner Roger Goodell was Gore helped out with a produc-still talking about more games in tive day on the ground, rushing Britain and possibly a franchise for 118 yards on 29 carries. based in London in the future. The Broncos (2-6) got their first The fans were struggling for touchdown in the third quarter something to cheer for in the first when Tim Tebow ran in from a half, with the exception of the yard after Kyle Orton connected lone scoring drive from the with Brandon Lloyd for 71 yards. Niners. Orton pulled the Broncos within San Francisco took the ball 65 a score with 2:19 to go in the yards on 13 plays and led 3-0 game, hitting Lloyd for a 1-yard when Joe Nedney kicked a 34­touchdown. But Matt Prater yard field goal with 27 seconds to shanked the extra point attempt. go in the first quarter. Orton completed 28 of 40 pass-The Broncos took the lead on es for 369 yards. But he also Tebow’s run, then went ahead made the only two turnovers of 10-3 early in the fourth quarter the game. Manny Lawson swat-when Prater made a 32-yard field ted the ball out of his hand in the goal. fourth quarter, setting up Gore’s The Broncos twice had touch-TD run. Then he threw an inter-down plays called back. The sec­ception to Shawntae Spencer as ond would have put them in posi­time was winding down. tion to try to tie the game with a Lawson also drilled Orton in the 2-point conversion, but an illegal third quarter, knocking him to the block nullified Eddie Royal’s 78­ground on a third-down pass yard punt return. attempt. Orton was back in for In the third quarter, Orton con-the next possession. nected with Lloyd for 25 yards, Although it rained in London and on the next play, Orton hand-for much of the day, it was dry ed off to Knowshon Moreno, who during the game at Wembley pitched back to Orton for a 38­Stadium — the home of England’s yard touchdown pass to Jabar national soccer team and venue Gaffney. But it was called back for for the 1966 World Cup final. a chop block penalty by Moreno. As the home team, the 49ers Lloyd finished with 169 yards were able to distribute flags to on seven receptions. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 1, 2010 
MLB 

Giants take Game 4 on road 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Everything is clicking for the San Francisco Giants at the World Series—hitting, fielding and especially the pitching. 
On Sunday night, rookie Madison Bumgarner threw well beyond his years and sent a shudder clear through Rangers Ballpark. 
One more win, like this gem, a 4-0 shutout of Texas in Game 4, and that elusive World Series title will be theirs to savor. 
“We’ve got the team to do it,” Bumgarner said. 
Have they ever. 
Dressed in black-and­orange, the Giants were spooky good in taking a 3-1 edge. The 21-year-old Bumgarner allowed only three hits over eight innings and took all the fun out of a festive Halloween crowd. 
Aubrey Huff and Buster Posey backed their young lefty with home runs and San Francisco put on a fielding clinic. Coming off their lone loss in the Series, these Giants delivered a complete game. 
“Yesterday was a very hel­ter-skelter situation,” Giants general manager Brian Sabean said. “You’re worried about families, worried about signing balls, worried about tickets, about travel. I’m not using that as an excuse, but today they were much more relaxed, much more confident.” 
Ace Tim Lincecum will try Monday night to deliver the Giants’ first championship since they moved to San Francisco in 1958. And now it’s up to Cliff Lee to save the Rangers’ season in Game 5. 
Only six teams in World Series history have overcome a 3-1 deficit, mostly recently Kansas City in 1985. 
“With a win, I usually sleep pretty good in the playoffs, with a loss pretty shaky. Hopefully we sleep good tonight. We’ve got a big chal­lenge tomorrow with Cliff Lee,” Huff said. “We got him last game, but you know he’s going to come out and really want to get us.” 
Bumgarner and closer Brian Wilson made the Giants the first team to post two shutouts in a World Series since Baltimore threw three straight to close out the Dodgers in 1966. 
“It’s certainly been pitching as advertised,” Texas manager Ron Washington said. “They’ve got good stuff. They’ve got velocity. They can spin the baseball. They can change speeds and they keep their defense engaged.” 
Huff, who grew up in the Metroplex, hit a two-run homer in the third that gave Bumgarner all the support he needed. Posey added a solo shot in the eighth. Bumgarner and Posey became the first rookie battery to start in the Series since Spec Shea and Yogi Berra for the Yankees in 1947. 
“It’s hard to believe he’s only 
21. He’s got it all and he has no fear of anyone,” Giants out­fielder Nate Schierholtz said. 
Andres Torres doubled twice, singled and drove in a run and Edgar Renteria also got three hits. 
The gloves helped out even more. Left fielder Cody Ross came up with a shoestring catch, 

second baseman Freddy Sanchez made a leaping grab and Posey threw out Josh Hamilton trying to steal. Bumgarner helped himself, too, knocking down Hamilton’s scorcher up the middle. 
Coming off a 4-2 win Saturday night, the Rangers and their fans were ready to even this Series. Earlier in the day, about a quarter-mile away at Cowboys Stadium, Dallas dropped to 1-6 with a 35-17 loss to Jacksonsville. Two little boys held up signs inside that read: “Hurry Up Cowboys … I Have a Rangers Game to go to.” 
The father-and-son team of George H.W. Bush and George 
W. Bush threw out the ceremo­nial first ball in what Major League Baseball said was the first time two former presi­dents attended a World Series game. 
The elder Bush’s wife, Barbara, even kept score from her front-row seat next to the Texas dugout. There wasn’t much to write down — not on the Texas side, anyway, because of Bumgarner. 
“I can’t say enough about what he did,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. 
Bumgarner didn’t permit a runner past first base until the seventh. Facing his only jam, he retired Ian Kinsler on a fly ball to strand two runners and preserve a 3-0 lead. 
Bumgarner struck out Vladimir Guerrero three times, the first time the star Texas designated hitter had done that this season. Twice, Guerrero took weak waves at strike three. 
“I’m surprised, to be honest with you,” said Hamilton, who fanned for the final out. “Vladdy is a competitor. It looked like he was looking for a different pitch than what he got.” 
The Giants’ fourth starter, Bumgarner went 7-6 in 18 starts this season. He began this game with a four-pitch walk to Elvis Andrus and ran into little trouble after that. He struck six, walked two and improved to 2-0 in three post­season starts. 
“I try to tell myself all the time just to relax and take deep breaths, control the breathing. It helps me relax and stay calm and act like it’s not a big deal. Obviously it is, it’s the World Series. Just tried to go out there and relax, and it’s worked out,” he said. 
Wilson closed with a hitless ninth. 
The only other time this year Texas was shut out at home was in a 5-0 loss to Oakland on Aug. 28. 
“I don’t think discourage­ment is the right word,” Texas third baseman Michael Young said. “Obviously, we know we’re capable of more.” 
The Giants tweaked their lineup, benching strikeout machine Pat Burrell and mak­ing Huff the DH for the first time this season. Bochy put Schierholtz in right field and Travis Ishikawa at first base— fine fielders, not great hitters. That’s more the NL way, where spare bats rarely grow on the bench. 
Washington came off his bench twice to discuss calls with first base umpire Jeff Kellogg. Both plays were bang-bang, and replays seemed to show both were misses that went against the Rangers. 
Thwarted early, the Giants took a 2-0 lead in the third on Huff’s homer. Torres led off with a grounder that hit the first-base bag, kicked up and rolled into the corner for a double. Sanchez failed to advance him and was still shouting at himself down in the dugout tunnel when Huff hit a long drive to right. 
Huff homered on the 62nd pitch overall from Hunter, who tossed strikes but couldn’t throw the ball past anyone. Alexi Ogando began warming up in the Texas bullpen in the third and replaced Hunter in the fifth. 
Ogando set down five straight batters, then bounced a breaking ball to the sixth and immediately grabbed his left side. A trainer went to the mound, Ogando came out and Darren Oliver relieved. 
“He’s through,” Washington said. 
The Giants took an aggres­sive approach from the get-go. After Torres led off the game with an infield single, Bochy ordered up a bunt, hit-and-run and a steal—all with Sanchez at the plate. 
Hamilton kept things score­less in the Giants second. The All-Star center fielder charged hard to make a diving, back­handed catch on a blooper by Schierholtz that stranded run­ners at the corners. 
NFL 
Saints rebound with victory over Steelers 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Drew Brees rediscovered his Super Bowl form in time to make the defending champion New Orleans Saints look like con­tenders again. 
After taking a pounding and throwing an early interception, Brees connected on all but two of 22 passes he attempted in the second half, including two fourth-quarter touchdowns that lifted the Saints to a 20-10 vic­tory over the Steelers on Sunday night. 
“We knew what a big game this was,” said Brees, who threw for 191 yards in the sec­ond half to finish with 305 yards spread among nine receivers. 
“There was no better way to get back on track than to beat these guys. I felt like we played as complete a game as we’ve played all year, especially in the second half.” 
Brees’ first TD went to Marques Colston for 16 yards and the second went for 8 yards to Lance Moore with 2:37 left, breaking open a defensive struggle in which neither team scored a touchdown through three quarters. 
Leigh Torrence then inter­cepted Ben Roethlisberger to seal it for the Saints (5-3), who were coming off an embarrass­ing 30-17 loss at home last week to the scuffling Cleveland Browns. 
“We have a special group,” Brees said. “I think we all knew that from the start. We just had to come out and prove it. It’s a long season. … You’re going to have your ups and downs.” 
Rashard Mendenhall had the only touchdown for Pittsburgh (5-2) on a 38-yard run in the fourth quarter. Roethlisberger was 17 of 28 for 195 yards. 
“This is definitely a gut check for us,” Roethlisberger said. “We got knocked down a little bit tonight and now it will be interesting to see how we bounce back.” 
A packed Halloween night crowd howled throughout much of the matchup of the past two Super Bowl champs, and Steelers coach Mike Tomlin said the Saints’ defense seemed to thrive off of the noise. 
“It was a hostile environment for us. The fans were into it,” Steelers coach Mike Tomlin said. “We struggled a little bit on possession downs because of it, but that’s no excuse. … We knew this was going to be a tough place to play coming into it. I was hopeful that we would perform better than we did.” 
The Saints came in ranked third in total defense and lived up to it, forcing two turnovers and stopping the Steelers on a goal-line stand in the first half after coach Sean Payton chal­lenged what was initially ruled a TD catch by Antwaan Randle El. 
“We knew it was going to be a boxing match, a slugfest,” said safety Darren Sharper, wearing a boxing robe which said “World Champs” on the hood. “We knew the most phys­ical team was going to win this game, and we felt we were the most physical team out there.” 
The Saints struggled to run against a Steelers defense that came in ranked first in the NFL against the run and allowed New Orleans only 30 yards on the ground. 
Brees was sacked twice and intercepted once, giving him 11 interceptions and matching his total from last season. 
The Saints tried some trick­ery, to no avail. In the third quarter, right tackle Zach Strief, who had reported as an eligible receiver, was wide open in the end zone, but was backpedaling and unable to reach high enough to snag a short pass Brees lobbed over his head. New Orleans had to settle for a field goal to go up 6­3. 
The Saints went ahead 13-3 when Colston hauled in his touchdown, running the last few yards and reaching to get the ball over the pylon before he was bumped out of bounds. 


Monday, November 1, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Individual event sweep 

Jackson named all-league 
headlines frst victory 


By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Saturday afternoon brought favorable results for both teams and one individ­ual in particular. The men’s team took fifth and the women’s took sixth, but sen­ior Dan Jackson earned All-Big East at the Big East Conference Championships at Jamesville Beach Park in New York. 
Jackson took 12th place for the men, coming in at 
25:32. With this finish also came the first All-Big East honor of his career. 
Following Jackson came freshman Martin Grady, who took 20th place in 25:59. Closely behind Grady, sopho­more Jeremy Rae and junior Johnathan Shawel finished back -to -back in 26th and 27th place, splitting their time by only one second at 
26:09 and 26:10. Junior Jordan Carlson crossed the finish line in fourth for the Irish at 44th place and fin­ishing the race in 26:34. 
“We have a very clear number one guy in Dan Jackson but as for the rest it is a toss up as to who will finish out for the next four spots,” Carlson said. 
Finishing outside the top five were senior Mat Abernethy at 53rd place and 26:54, another pair of back-to -back runners, juniors Kelly Lynch and Joseph Miller at 64th and 65th place with times of 27:24 and 27:25 and finally senior Ryan Gamboa at 69th and 27:30. 
“We have an incredible group of talented runners who have been more dedi­cated to the sport and ‘living the lifestyle’ it takes to suc­ceed than any other team I have ever been on,” Jackson said. “We are steadily mak­ing our presence known.” 

The men ended with 127 points to come in fifth place of 14 teams. 
Freshman Meg Ryan fin­ished first for the Irish and came in 30th overall in 
22:05. Closely behind her was senior Erica Watson in 33rd place at 22:11. Seconds later, sophomore Rebecca Tracy crossed the finish line in 38th place in 22:34 and 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish brought the brooms out this past Saturday, sweeping all individual swimming events in 
the dual against Michigan State. The 150-93 win at the Spartan’s McCaffree Pool was the first Irish (1-2) victory of the season. 
The Irish also took first in one of two relays and took second in the 1 and 3 meter boards. 
“Our team was very excited to 
“Our team was very 
meter diving excited to bring events. “Our team was 
home a win.” 
pretty proud to have Gracie 
Samantha Maxwell 
Fredlake win both senior swimmer the 500 and 1,000 
freestyle events,” Maxwell said. “She has been injured and for her to 
place first in both event was great. Also, our 400 IMers did a great job racing tough and winning. Overall the team was pretty proud to win every event with the excep­tion of the 200 freestyle relay.” 
The next meet for the Irish will take place Saturday at home against Purdue. 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 
junior Rachel Velarde in 42nd place in 22:38. 
Concluding the Irish line­up were freshmen Kelly Curran and Alexa Aragon at 47th place in 22:45 and 55th place in 22:59. Junior Molly Hirt and senior Theresa 
mfnnera@nd.edu 
Freestyle. 
Sophomore Gracie Fredlake took first in the 500 and 1,000 Freestyle. 
The 200 Medley Relay was won by sophomore Kim Holden, sopho­more Lauren Scott, Miller and Maxwell with a time of 1:44.87. 
Senior Heidi Grossman took second in both the 1-meter and 3­
bring home a win,” senior Samantha Maxwell said. “It was our first dual meet win of the sea­son and a great way to cap off a good week of training.” 
Maxwell took first in the 100 Breaststroke with a time of 1:04.30, more than three seconds faster than the second place swimmer. 
Senior Amywren Miller took first place in both the 50 and 100 
Cattuna came in back -to­back in 63rd and 64th place in 23:12 and 23:18. Junior 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Susanna Sullivan wrapped up the team in 94th place at 24:19. 
The women finished with 
Belles drop final two 183 points to take sixth place of 16 teams. 
matches before tourney Contact Megan Finneran at 


By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Just days before the MIAA Tournament, Saint Mary’s dropped its final two matches of the regular season. The Belles (5-20, 3-13 MIAA) fell to eighth in the MIAA stand­ings after losing to conference foes Trine and Hope over the weekend. 
Saint Mary’s lost its home finale Friday night. They cele­brated Senior Night and hon­ored Ellen Hueslmann. Trine won 3-0 (25-22, 25-23, 25-21) in a hard fought match. The Belles and Thunder were tied 25 times and went through 14 lead changes. 
While neither team was able to gain too much momentum or separate from their oppo­nent, the Thunder pushed through at the end of each set and pick up the win. 
Sophomore Stephanie Bodien had 13 kills and eight digs in a losing effort for the Belles. Hailee Leitz led the way with 27 assists. Huelsmann performed well for the Belles, with four kills, seven digs, two assists, two block assists and a service ace. 
On Saturday afternoon, the Belles lost 3-0 (25-13, 25-6, 25-14) to Hope in the regular season finale. They will return to Holland, Michigan on Tuesday in the first round of the MIAA Tournament. 
Bodien led the way again with nine assists. Leitz picked up 17 assists to once again pace the Belles. 
Although the Belles have struggled this season, they are optimistic that they can put together a strong per­formance in the conference tournament. They have showed signs of improvement with their young squad throughout the season and have endured some difficult losses. 
With these late season loss­es and their final ranking of eighth in the conference, the Belles will face top-ranked Hope, a team beat them twice this season, in Tuesday’s first round of the MIAA Tournament. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 1, 2010 
Waldrum 
continued from page 20 
it’s not something we address.” 
Connecticut senior midfield­er Elise Fugowski scored both goals for the visitors, notch­ing her first 60 minutes into the match and then doubling her tally on a Notre Dame miscue in its own box less than 15 minutes later. Fugowski caused problems for the Irish all game, creat­ing several chances in the first half. 
“We talked about her at halftime because she’s the 
one 
player on their team, every time we play Connecticut, that can hurt you,” Waldrum said. “You can’t give good players like that time and space.” 

The Huskies controlled the run of play for most of the first half, threatening early 

on 
a shot that curled past senior Irish goalkeeper Nikki Weiss but bounced harmlessly off the left post. Notre Dame’s first-half attacks were spo­radic and poorly supported, but the Irish were able to enter the locker room at half­time tied 0-0. Though the Notre Dame attack improved in the second half, star junior forward Melissa Henderson was unable to get a shot on goal all game, which was indicative of the impotence of the Irish front line. 


“It’s on Melissa. That’s all on her just like it is on [fresh­man forward] Adriana Leon and [senior forward] Rose Augustin,” Waldrum said. “Those kids have to create more, and they didn’t, so that’s on them.” 
Waldrum was particularly concerned about a sense of complacency that seemed to have struck his squad. 
“[Connecticut] looked like a team that came out wanting to play in a playoff game and it looked like a Notre Dame team that was just going through the motions,” he said. “It wasn’t anything tac­tically. It was just a mentality of a team that came out ready 

WOMEN’S ROWING 

Varsity shells earn victory 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame defeated Tulsa in Friday and Saturday’s time-trial races on the Saint Joseph’s River. On Friday, the Irish defeated the Golden Hurricane in the varsity eight head race, and on Saturday the top varsity four boat claimed victory in the stake race. 
The shell consisting of coxswain Abby Meyers and crew senior Paige White, junior Katie Suyo, Olivia Kacsits, Molly Bruggeman, senior Genevieve Malone, senior Carol Ann Michel, senior Emily Crosby and sophomore Stephanie O’Neill crossed the line at 14:13.1 on Friday. They edged Tulsa’s first varsity eight boat, which clocked in at 14:19.2. 
Coach Martin Stone left the weekend’s races saying he wished his team rowed faster, but said he was pleased with the effort it took for his varsity eight to take first place. 
“I’m pleased we won,” he said. “I would’ve like to go faster as always. We were down early to Tulsa’s first eight, but we came back late.” 
Saturday morning saw the Irish varsity four boat, coxed by junior Jacqueline Gilhooly and crewed by Malone, Michel, Crosby and O’Neill finish with a time of 11:37.6. Tulsa’s “A” and “B” shells finished second in 
11:38.7 and third in 11:57.8, respectively. 
Stone said his teams handling of the unusual turn in Saturday’s race was the key to an Irish victory in the event. 
“The fours went out and raced in a very odd format, one we don’t normally see colle­giately,” Stone said. “The most critical part is the 180 degree spin around the buoy, and we handled that part better than Tulsa did.” 
Stone also said he is not con­cerned with his team being too top-heavy, as both Friday and Saturday’s time trials saw and Irish varsity shells take first, with Tulsa claiming second and third. 
“Our 2v and 3v rode well,” Stone said. “The depth is fine, I’m not concerned.” 
Another possible concern for Notre Dame going into the regatta with Tulsa was some left-over rustiness following the mid-semester week off. However, the Irish were able to overcome the time off to beat the Golden Hurricane. 
“We didn’t look that good last week,” Stone said. “We didn’t stay during Fall Break, and his­torically it takes us a little while to get back into it, but we did a nice job.” 
With half of the fall season now complete, the Irish can look forward to a match-up against Indiana University Sunday. 
“The format is more like a controlled scrimmage than a full-out race,” Stone said. “It will help us transition to more of a spring season mode.” 
Races begin next weekend in Indianapolis, Ind., at 11 a.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles earn program’s best conference fnish 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles raced in the MIAA Championships Saturday and placed third overall in the meet with a score of 105. 
Saint Mary’s had placed fourth in the MIAA Championships last year. The Belles’ finish this past Saturday 
was the best yet in program history at the conference champi­onships. Saint Mary’s placed behind two nationally ranked pro­grams, Calvin and Hope. 
As the Belles took third both at this race 
“It’s been a wonderful season and it was pretty sweet to make some cross country history.” 
Jackie Bauters Belles coach 
and the MIAA Jamboree, Saint ting together great races, but Mary’s also finished third in the every race she is becoming an MIAA conference for the very even better runner.” first time in program history. Almond, a top runner for the 
“It’s been a wonderful sea­son and it was pretty sweet to make some cross country history by finish­ing third yester­day,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. 
By finishing third in confer­ence, the Belles reached a major 
“The goals we had set helped focus the team in practice and push them outside of their comfort zones.” 
Jackie Bauters Belles coach 
Belles worked with Kenney throughout the season. 
“Kenney’s development has largely been aided by training with Joanne this season,” Bauters said. “The two of them work together so well, pushing each other. My hope is 
goal they had set at the begin­ning of the season. 
“It has been the mission of this team to break into the top three for the past two years, so accomplishing that goal feels really rewarding,” Bauters said. “The goals we had set helped focus the team in practice and push them outside of their com­fort zones. The team is respond­ing really well to the workouts this year and seeing success as a result.” 
Sophomore Julia Kenney led Saint Mary’s Saturday, with a 14th place finish overall, break­ing another PR at 23:05.7. Junior Joanne Almond placed 26th overall with a time of 
23:45.0. Senior Catie Salyer made a new PR at 23:66.4, fin­ishing 33rd overall. 
Kenney was named second team All-MIAA. She became the fourth Belle in program history to earn All-MIAA honors. 
“I was so excited for Julia to make Second Team All-MIAA,” 
Bauters said. “In our conference it’s been a chal­lenging feat to accomplish with the tough com­petition. Julia is a very deter­mined individual who sets high achieving goals for herself. She is still learning a lot about her racing strategy and put-
to compete from the opening whistle versus a team that didn’t.” 
In the end, however, an uncharacteristically upset Waldrum placed the blame on his own shoulders. 
“There’s no real positives to take from today, because I’m really disappointed in the way we turned out,” he said. “At the end of the day, that’s on me. The only positive that I can really take from today is that we’re still going to play because we’re going to be in the NCAAs.” 
Though the Irish will, for the first time since the con­ference tournament took its current form in 1999, watch the semifinals from home, Waldrum said they would take some time preparing for the NCAA tournament. They will wait anxiously to see if they finish in the top 16 of the RPI when the seedings are released in a week, resulting in the ability to host three rounds of the tournament. 
“[The] concern is just being ready for the NCAAs now,” Waldrum said. “We can’t have this kind of a performance. We don’t play again the next loss we have — we’re done.” 
In the end, Notre Dame was left pondering the unfamiliar feeling of losing and finding no one to blame but itself. 
“They were clearly much better,” Waldrum said. “This time of year, you can’t play that way.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
that their racing tactics can come together at Regionals and pay off.” 
The NCAA Division III Regionals are the next and final step for the squad. 
“I’d love to see us break into the top 15 at Regionals this year,” Bauters said. “It will all be a matter of what we bring that day.” 
Regionals for Saint Mary’s will take place on Nov. 13 at Hope College in Holland, Mich. 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 


Monday, November 1, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
son with a disappointing 51-50 loss to Old Dominion in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. Merely making the tournament, however, was a huge accomplishment for the Irish, who appeared to have lit­tle chance of making the big dance after Harangody sus­tained a knee injury in a 90-87 loss to Seton Hall on Feb. 11th, the first of three straight Irish losses. The normally up-tempo Irish, however, revived their season when they started run­ning a slower half-court set that led to consecutive upsets over No. 16 Pittsburgh and No. 13 Georgetown. The Irish powered their way to the Big East Tournament quarterfinals all but sealed a Notre Dame invita­tion to the NCAA Tournament. 
Notre Dame’s top returning scorer is fifth-year forward Tim Abromitis, who averaged 16.1 points per game and shot 42.9 percent three-point range. Fellow senior Ben Hansbrough also posted 12 points per game for the Irish last season. Notre Dame also hopes to get a boost from senior guard Scott Martin, who missed all of last season with a torn ACL after transfer­ring from Purdue after the 2007-08 season. 
While Notre Dame will rely on key returning seniors for a suc­cessful season, a number of new faces must step in to replace the production of Harangody and Jackson. Freshman guard Eric Atkins is expected to replace Jackson at point guard in the early going and continue a line of immedi­ate impact Irish freshmen at the position that includes the likes of Jackson and former point guard Chris Thomas. The combination of sophomore for­wards Jack Cooley and Mike Broghammer will seek to replace the scoring and rebounding voids left by Harangody’s departure. 
These new faces for the Irish will look to build chemistry with the older seniors in tonight’s game against the Knights, a Division III squad from Indianapolis that plays in the NAIA. The Irish and Knights will tip-off at the Purcell Pavilion at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Period 
continued from page 20 
struggled to get into the flow. 
“I thought he did well,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said of his freshman goalie. “He held us in there a few times because we were real sloppy to start the game. It looked like we had the B.C. hang­over. I didn’t think we played very well in the first period.” 
The play picked up after a scoreless first period, as the Irish fourth line opened the scoring when freshman right wing David Gerths netted a wrist shot from the right cir­cle past Broncos sophomore goalie Nick Pisellini with about 12 minutes left in the second period. Western Michigan answered back a minute later with freshman Chase Balisy scoring his first career goal on a backhand shot past Summerhays. 
The pace of the game was brought to a halt for a chunk of the second period as the two teams got into a few scuffles after the whistle as a result of the physical play throughout the contest. The biggest of the fights resulted in penalties for four players, including Irish senior captain Joe Lavin and freshman Stephen Johns, both defend­ers. 



“Sometimes things just don’t go your way, and some­times it’s ugly, but we got the job done,” Lavin said. 
The Irish broke the 1-1 tie in the third period with the fourth line yet again provid­ing the spark as freshman left wing Jeff Costello hit Gerths breaking down the slot for Gerths’ second goal of the game and a 2-1 Irish lead. Jackson said he was pleased with the play of his young fourth line — which includes Costello, Gerths and classmate Mike Voran. 
“I yelled at them this week because they were a little sleepy in practice at times, but they give us energy,” Jackson said. “They played extremely hard and scored a couple of key goals for us. They outworked our other lines. They were the guys in there battling and forecheck­ing and they deserve a lot of credit for that.” 
Though the Irish conceded another goal off a rebound to tie the game up, they scored the decisive goal of the game on a power play with around five minutes left in the game as senior wing Ryan Guentzel hit freshman center Anders Lee in the slot for the game-winning score. 
After grinding out the ugly win in dramatic fashion, Lavin was thrilled with his team’s endurance and effort. 
“We’re in great shape. We did a lot of conditioning in the offseason and during the season,” Lavin said. “I think, you know, thus far in the third period, I think we’ve worked harder than the other team. That’s really important to us, and we just need to make sure we sustain that for 60 minutes and throughout the whole season.” 
The two teams took the ice again in Kalamazoo Saturday night, with the Irish and Broncos ending up tied both after regulation and after overtime 2-2. 
Lee lit the lamp just over a minute into the game, but Western Michigan scored two unanswered goals before Costello found the back of the net for the first time in his career late in the second period to tie the game. 
From there, the teams played over 28 scoreless min­utes, including the entire third period and five-minute overtime period. Sophomore Irish goalie Mike Johnson stopped 11 shots in that span of time, and 31 on the game overall. 
Ryan scored on the Irish’s first shootout attempt while senior captain Calle Ridderwall was stopped by Pisellini on the next Notre Dame attempt. Johnson, however, stonewalled three Bronco attempts to earn the CCHA shootout point. 
In the end, Notre Dame earned five out of six possible points in a tough pair of games against Western Michigan. The Irish will return to action next week­end, traveling to Bowling Green for games Friday and Saturday at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 1, 2010 
Puente 
continued from page 20 
game by controlling the things we do on our side.” 
The Irish out-hit both of their opponents this weekend. Notre Dame closed out Sunday with a .234 hitting percentage to the Huskies .193. On Saturday, the Irish hit at .305 while holding the Red Storm short at .117. 
Sunday’s success came from the Irish utilizing both their starters and the bench, Notre Dame played 12 players overall throughout the match with three players finishing with 10 or more kills and four with 10 or more digs. 
On the offensive side, freshman outside hitter Andrea McHugh led the Irish offense with 17 kills, 14 digs and a career-best three solo blocks. Sophomore middle block­er Hilary Eppink continued her standout season with 15 kills, fol­lowed by senior middle blocker Kellie Sciacca with 10 kills and four digs. Brown had five aces in the win for a new career high, which she complemented with three block assists, three kills, seven digs and 45 assists. 
The Notre Dame defense sport­ed a new look on Sunday without junior outside hitter Kristen Dealy. In her absence, Irish coach Debbie Brown started junior Frenchy Silva as libero with sen­iors Megan Dunne and Angela Puente to help on defense. Silva record 18 digs, Dunne 10 and Puente 15 to help the Irish to a dig total of 73. 
The first set was aided by a kill from Puente that jumpstarted a 5­1 Irish scoring drive to clinch the match. Both teams’ hitting suf­fered in the second set, but the Huskies jumped ahead to take it. Notre Dame came back in the third as Connecticut’s offense fell short once again, but the trend stopped in the fourth set. 
The final set saw the Huskies out-hit the Irish .333 to .293 but McHugh’s powerful arm proved too much for Connecticut to han­dle when paired with Sammie Brown’s final ace. 


The weekend kicked off with a strong start Saturday morning as the Irish swept the Red Storm. Freshman Andie Olsen had a breakout match as she totaled 10 kills and seven blocks. Sciacca put out 11 kills of her own while Eppink and McHugh played roles in the impressive hitting statistics as they each had 8 kills. 
Eppink also chipped in with eight blocks and five digs. McHugh rounded out the day with 12 digs and two aces. 
Sammie Brown put up 37 assists while Silva had three and nine digs in the win. 
Overall, the Irish were pleased with their weekend’s results, which also helped the players realizing what they need to con­tinue to do in their coming match­es. 
“It’s really about channeling our focus on the little things each game so when the tough plays come we don’t have to put so much emphasis on winning every single one,” Puente said. 
Ultimately, however, Puente said these wins were about the team coming together once more and leaning on each other. 
“It was a one of those weekends where we really understood what it means to play as a team, and I think that’s what we can attribute our wins too,” Puente said. 
Notre Dame returns to the road next weekend as they travel to Villanova for another conference match on Nov. 5. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


SMC SWIMMING 

Belles lose to Kalamazoo 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Belles lost to Kalamazoo Friday in their first MIAA meet of the season, 170-89. 
Despite the loss, Saint Mary’s coach Mark Benishek said he saw some bright spots. 
“We had some really, really good swims,” he said. 
Sophomore Ellie Watson and Junior Megan Price are responsi­ble for two of the highlights from Friday’s action. Watson and Price took first and second in the 1,000 freestyle in 11:19.44 and 11:36.58, respectively. Sophomore Katie Griffin took first place in the 100 backstroke two events later in a time of 1:02.81. 
Sophomore sprinter Kristyn Gerbeth turned in another one of the strong swims her coach was referring to, achieving a personal best time in the 100 Freestyle. 
“[Gerbeth] really stepped up and that 100 free was her shining moment,” Benishek said. “It was great to see especially because she was someone we had to do a lot of stroke work with to correct some things. I told her I thought she could be a great sprinter. Her work really paid off.” 
In the same way that Gerbeth’s individual work has yielded divi­dends, so too has an increased focus on team chemistry. Benishek said his squad’s unity is evident in the support each of the swimmers has for each other during meets. 
“We did a lot of teambuilding early on, and I think you’re seeing that show itself now,” Benishek said. “There’s a lot of support behind the girls when they’re rac­ing, from talking with each other about the next race or after a 
Clark 
continued from page 20 
The scoring continued for the Irish 20 minutes later when junior midfielder Brendan King lobbed in a cross that was headed in by sophomore midfielder Dillon Powers off a deflection to give the Irish the 3-0 lead. King also assisted on Perry’s two goals. 
Notre Dame continued to play stout defense all the way through the final whis­tle, securing the win in their final regular season game of the season. The game, which was supposed to be contested on Saturday morning before the football game versus Tulsa, was moved to Sunday after a Georgetown make-up game versus Connecticut, result­ing in a lower attendance of 
327. Clark said the reduced crowd and colder conditions didn’t affect his team. 
“If they played yesterday, obviously there’s always a big crowd for football games,” Clark said. “That’s one of the hard things, but we talked about that. You just take the same enthusi­asm from practice and bring it into the game and forget about the crowd. We ’re well-focused team that loves to play.” 
The Irish will now host a home quarterfinal in the Big East tournament Saturday against the winner of South Florida vs. Marquette. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

race.” 
Saint Mary’s has a few weeks to regroup after the loss, returning to action for a three-day meet on Nov. 19 at the University of Chicago Invitational. The meet will feature a competitive range of schools, a challenge Benishek said he welcomes. 
“The next two invitationals we have — the Chicago Invite and the Calvin Invite — those are some bigger invitationals,” he said. “That’s why I approved some of those. It’s good to get after it and compete against the best teams in our conference and the best teams in D-III. It’s good to set the bar high, and see how our girls respond to the challenge set forth in front of them.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  


Monday, November 1, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31___ mater 
1 Name repeatedin the lyric“Whatever ___ wants, ___ gets” 
5 Teeter-totter 11 ___ Moines 14Apple computer 15Hitting of a golf
ball 16Nothing'sopposite 17Shows petulant anger 19“Fee, ___, foe,fum” 20Cheri formerly of“S.N.L.” 21Exam for H.S. 
seniors 22Seep 23Gets lucky 27Hot tar, e.g. 29“Here ___ 
comes, MissAmerica” 30Heir, but not an heiress 
33“Lucky Jim”author Kingsley 36Painter Picasso 40Doesn't stonewall, say 43Pro ___ (perfunctory) 44Tiny time unit:Abbr. 45Like an omelet 46Toronto's prov. 48___ Pérignon 50Lone Star State nickname 51Reacts slightly 
57Run amok 58Cheer for a matador 

59“Ave ___” (Latinprayer) 62Fourth of Julycelebration inits. 63Shows affection unexpectedly 66They, inMarseille 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


67Eight Englishkings
68Fitzgerald knownas the First Ladyof Song
69Volleyball courtdivider 70How china maybe sold 
71Possible response to a grabby boyfriend 
Down 
1 Quick weightloss option,informally
2 Leave out 3 Recent arrival 4 Ghana's capital5 Opposite of
NNW 6 Co. that oversees the 21­
Across 7 Rub out 8 Couches 9 Dogs whose tails
curl up the back10Rainy11 Actor Willem 12Doolittle of 
“Pygmalion”13Streamlined 18Chart-toppers22Highly
decorative 24Addams who created “The 
Addams Family”25Muscular fellow 26Knocks on the 
noggin27Large iron hook28Medley32Not quite34100 is average
for them 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by Janice M. Putney 
35Soft leather 42Environmental 55Senior, junior sci. and sophomore 
37Cause of goose 56Rice wines 
bumps, perhaps 47Gov't securities 60Cuba, por 
38Pricey seating 49Papa's partner ejemplosection 
51Boston N.H.L.'er 61“Rush!,” on an39Gem with 
52Window or ordercolored bands middle 63___ Na Na 41Carvey who alternative 64Soapmaker's used to say 53Raise a glass to need
“Well, isn't thatspecial?” 54Justice Kagan 65Fast jet, for short 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

LAURA MCGINN 
JEFF KNUREK

TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Monday, November 1, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Busted streak 
No. 3/5 Irish upset by Huskies in quarterfnal 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
In a sunny but cold Alumni Stadium, No. 3/5 Notre Dame’s historic run of Big East dominance came to a startling halt in a 2-0 loss to Connecticut in the Big East quarterfinals. 
The Irish (15-3-2, 9-1-2 Big East) lost a conference game for the first time in 78 games, and snapped a 99-game home conference winning streak as well. The Huskies (10-8-3, 5-5-2) were the last Big East team to defeat Notre Dame in South Bend, a full 15 years ago in October 1995. 

“We never really thought about the streak and it’s not something we ever really talk about,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “You hate to lose it, it’s nice having it, but NICOLE TOCZAUER/The Observer 
Senior Connecticut midfielder Becky Gundling takes the ball away from freshman forward Adriana see WALDRUM/page 16 Leon. Leon and the Irish were shut out for the first time this season Sunday. 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Conference returns to Irish hands 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish were spooked in Sunday’s fourth set against Connecticut as the Huskies tried to even up the match, but Notre Dame held strong and came back to celebrate Halloween with a 3­1 (25-21, 23-25, 25-16, 27-25) win after freshman setter Sammie Brown made an ace on match point. 
Notre Dame (15-9, 8-3 Big East) also defeated Big East rival St. John’s 3-0 (25-16, 25-23, 25­
17) on Saturday morning to make the weekend even more of a treat that also put the team back in control. 
“This weekend was a solid per­formance for us,” Irish co-cap­tain Angela Puente said. “One of the main things we learned about ourselves is that we have the tal­ent to beat most of our oppo­nents, and we can control the 
see PUENTE/page 18 


MEN’S SOCCER 

Senior Day culminates in upset of No. 21 Georgetown 
By CHRIS ALLEN Sports Writer  the Irish to a 3-0 win over the Hoyas. The win, the fifth in a row  been in a number of seasons. I don’t know where we’ll be tomorrow in the RPI’s. This  getting off a shot in the first half. As halftime approached, Clark made a number of sub- Cl ark’s s tr at egy wa s rewarded when Perry netted two goals early in the second  
for the Irish (9-4-4, 6-2-1 Big  should push us hopefully a lit­ stitutions for key players in  half. Perry scored in the 55th  
B ef o r e  Not r e  Dam e’s  East) at home, clinched a bye  tle bit further up. It’s a good  the hopes of keeping them  minute and again two min- 
Sunday night clash in chilly  for Notre Dame in the upcom­ team all the way through.”  fresh for the second half in  utes later in the 57th hooked  
weather, the Irish honored  ing Big East tournament,  a  The game began with both  the cold conditions.  in his second goal of the game  
the  seven  seniors  on  their  fact that head coach Bobby  teams failing to find the back  “I thought the first half we  in from the 18-yard line.  
roster in a Senior Night cere- Clark said is  a  testament to  of the net in the first half.  did well, and then we brought  “Perry, he’s as hot as ever,”  
mony. In the second half, one  his team’s play throughout  Strong defensive performanc­ the subs on,” Clark said. “Just  Clark said. “He keeps scoring  
of  th e  seni o r s  — f o r ward  the season.  es  from junior center back  because,  we  felt the game  goals. It’s terrific when your  
Steven Perry  — returned the  “I think the team is playing  Aaron Maund and senior left  was  going to be  won  in the  main striker is scoring goals.”  
favor with two goals in the  really well,” he said. “RPI-back Greg Klazura helped the  second half and we did try to  
span of two minutes to lead  wise, this is the highest we’ve  Irish keep Georgetown from  rest some key players.”  see CLARK/page 18  

HOCKEY 

Freshmen stand out in gritty pair of games 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Over the course of about 30 hours, the No. 11 Irish and Western Michigan skat­ed two hotly contested games in two different states, with the Irish win­ning one game and tying one game of a home-and-home series. 
Notre Dame (5-1-1, 3-0-1­1 CCHA) won 3-2 at the Joyce Center on Friday night, and the two teams tied 2-2 in Kalamazoo, Mich. Saturday with senior center Ben Ryan netting the only goal in a shootout to get the Irish a shootout point. 

The Irish stumbled early on in the first period of the home contest, played in front of a sellout crowd at the Joyce Center. Western Michigan (4-2-2, 0-1-1-0 CCHA) took advantage of a number of sloppy defensive plays in front of the Irish net to control the early play, taking nine shots on goal before the Irish could regis­ter their first. The slow start was saved by the play of freshman goalie Steve Summerhays, making his second start of the season. Summerhays kept Western Michigan off the board in the first period as the Irish 
see PERIOD/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Post-Harangody era begins 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
After graduating a class that made three trips to the NCAA Tournament in four seasons, Notre Dame begins the post-Harangody era tonight with an exhibition game against Marian. 
The Irish, who were picked to finish 7th in the Big East, enter the 2010-11 season without receiving votes in either the AP or USA Today polls. The Irish have a number of questions to answer this season following the departures of All-American forward-center Luke Harangody and point guard Tory Jackson. 
Notre Dame ended last sea-
see IRISH/page 17 


IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, November 1, 2010 observer Tulsa 28, Notre Dame 27 
Irish pay tribute to Sullivan 

COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer Irish coach Brian Kelly and sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o stand along the Notre Dame sideline during a moment of silence in honor of Declan Sullivan. The Irish will continue to honor Sullivan throughout the season by wearing Irish green shamrock helmet decals with the letters “DS” in black. 
helmet decals emblazoned ers said the opportunity to would do whatever he could said word of the speech 
By SAM WERNER 
with the letters “DS” in black. play was an important part of to support and console quickly spread through the 
Sports Writer 
Players attended postgame the grieving process. Sullivan’s family. school. 
interviews wearing shirts “I think a lot of us were “My heart goes out to his “I actually wasn’t even in 

For the members of the with the same design. very grateful for this chance family,” Te’o said. “I’m trying the class, I just remember Notre Dame football team, “When you look at this shirt to play today and to get our to get ahold of his sister Gwen hearing about it,” Salvi said. attendance at Thursday and the decals on the helmet, minds off of everything that to make sure she is okay; and “It just got around the school night’s Mass of Remembrance it gives us another that if she needs any-and it was funny.” for Declan Sullivan was boost and another thing, to let me know Salvi said one of the tough-optional. But the entire team thing to play for,” “You don’t want to put it out and let my family est parts of the past few days was there when Mass began, Te’o said. know. It’s a tough was communicating news of sophomore linebacker Manti After the game, of your mind because he was time for them and we the tragedy to friends back Te’o said. Irish coach Brian just have to be there home. 
“It was great to see the Kelly spoke about a good person and you want for them, since we “It’s not easy, especially Mass, all the people there, Sullivan, who he esti-are a big family.” when you’ve got friends call­that’s great. Only at Notre mated was one of to remember him and kind of Junior defensive ing you up asking what hap-Dame, right?” said junior only a dozen student end Ethan Johnson pened and you have to walk-on safety Chris Salvi, workers he has honor him in the way you echoed Te’o’s com -explain to them,” he said. who met Sullivan at football known personally ments, saying that “You’ve just got to take a step tryouts in their freshman year over his 20 -year conduct yourself every day, Notre Dame’s loss to back and take time to think at Carmel Catholic High in coaching career. Tulsa was of second-about everything, just reflect, Mundelein, Ill. “I got a chance to not just on the football field. ary importance and also have people there 
Sullivan, a videographer for meet Declan and Saturday. for you to let you know it’s the football team, died know him because of You want to act like he “I view [the game going to be okay. I’ve been Wednesday when the scissor all the time he spent and the tragedy] as fortunate enough to have sup-lift from which he was filming in our office, espe-would want you to act and totally different,” port from family, friends, practice collapsed. His memo-cially this summer,” Johnson said. “Losing coaches, teammates.” 
you want to play like he 

ry was honored throughout Kelly said. “As you [a football game] He said the remembrance of the day Saturday as Notre know, he was a lover pales in comparison Sullivan would extend well
would want us to play.” 

Dame played Tulsa. of film and writing. to death. I feel horri-beyond Saturday’s game. 
Prior to kickoff, the band … I’ve got great ble about losing, but “You don’t want to put it out dedicated its Trumpets in the memories of him just it pales in compari-of your mind because he was
Chris Salvi 

Dome performance to being in the film and son to how his family a good person and you want Sullivan, and played the Alma video offices. junior safety feels right now.” to remember him and kind of Mater at the conclusion of its “You know, you Salvi recounted a honor him in the way you halftime performance. think you’re strong particularly memo -conduct yourself every day, 
The football team honored and able to handle all of those happened this week,” senior rable speech Sullivan gave for not just on the football field,” Sullivan with a moment of things that are thrown at you. linebacker Brian Smith said. a class in high school. Salvi said. “You want to act silence immediately following This one was very difficult.” “It was really good to get our He said Sullivan started the like he would want you to act the national anthem, as well Kelly said he knew as soon team out on the field today speech by pretending to be and you want to play like he as a prayer led by University as the tower fell that Sullivan and just try and play the visibly nervous, enough to would want us to play.” President Fr. John Jenkins. was the one on it. game.” worry his classmates, before Notre Dame and Tulsa players Even though the Irish came In addition to honoring him composing himself and giving Contact Sam Werner at also wore green shamrock up short against Tulsa, play-on the field, Te’ o said he a great presentation. Salvi swerner@nd.edu 
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 1, 2010 
With Crist out for the season, Rees steps up 
his previous knee injury. 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
“I talked to him last night 
Sports Wroter 

and I told him, essentially, sometimes we look for Almost a year to the day answers and sometimes there after tearing his ACL, Dayne are no answers,” Kelly said. Crist once again found himself “Sometimes accidents occur. being helped off the field with The second thing I said is a serious knee injury. you’ve been through this 
Crist was hurt in the first before. You don’t want to go quarter of Saturday’s 28-27 through it again, but at least loss to Tulsa. With three you’ve already exhibited the games left in the season, the strength to get through this.” Irish will now turn to fresh-While losing Crist is man Tommy Rees to call sig-undoubtedly a tough blow for nals with the hope that Notre the Irish, Rees filled in Dame can win two of the next admirably against the Golden three and earn an invite to a Hurricane and showed that he bowl game. is a much different quarter-
Crist went down when Tulsa back than the one who threw linebacker Tanner Antle an interception on his first knocked him out of bounds ever collegiate pass in Notre after a 29-yard scramble on Dame’s 28-24 loss to Michigan Notre Dame’s second posses-on Sept. 11. Despite the inter­sion. Crist immediately ception he threw on Notre grabbed his left knee after the Dame’s last offensive play, play, and Irish coach Brian Rees did tally 334 yards and Kelly confirmed Sunday that four touchdowns on the day. Crist underwent surgery to When asked about the play repair a torn patella tendon in of his true freshman quarter-his left knee. Kelly said Crist back, Kelly only needed one could be out for up to six word to respond. months with the injury, which “Awesome,” Kelly said. “I may rule him out for Notre couldn’t be more happy for Dame’s spring practice. the kid. True freshman going 
When talking to Crist, Kelly out there, hasn’t played. He was a couple of times. He’s a abilities on Saturday. ing, how proud of me he was. said he tried to encourage his just competes. Took some big competitive kid — he loves to “Throwing the ball is where He really helped me tremen­quarterback, reminding him hits, got right back up. I don’t play.” he’s at,” Kelly said. “That’s dously, more than anyone of how well he recovered from know if he knew where he When Rees took over in the what he does well. He gets the else. Having him behind you 
first quarter with Notre Dame ball out of his hands. He reads like that, he helped me a lot.” trailing 7-0, he quickly direct-things. [He] couldn’t do every-Although Rees gained much-ed the offense down the field, thing we wanted to do. I don’t needed confidence with his capping off the drive with his even know what the numbers performance on Saturday, he first career are — we’ve still feels that he needs to be t o u c h d o w n got to score there for his teammates. pass on a 10-“Awesome. I couldn’t be more points, “I just want to be there for yard comple-but I love the my teammates,” Rees said. 
more happy [with
tion to junior way the kid “Obviously, [the game] didn’t 
freshman quarterback
r e c e i v e r competed.” end up how we wanted to. I Michael Tommy Rees]. True After the gained some confidence. I Floyd. He also game, Rees think the team has some con-
freshman going out
zipped passes praised his fidence in me now. [We] just 
there, hasn’t played. He 
through tight coaches and try to keep pushing forward, windows just competes.” fellow quar -[we] just got to keep pushing b e t w e e n terbacks for and get prepared for Utah.” d e f e n d e r s helping him In the end, Rees was some-
Brian Kelly 
with regulari-improve since what critical of his own play, 
Irish coach
ty, most his first but he realized that he kept notably on a appearance in his team in the game and that 4-yard touch-the Michigan all was not lost. down pass to Floyd midway game. He said that Crist in “You know, I’m not happy through the second quarter. particular helped him raise with the last play or a couple 
Since Rees’ debut in the his game. of plays there in the middle of Michigan game, Kelly knew “That all comes with how the game and such,” Rees that he needed to prepare his the coaches prepared me, said. “But, you know, I’m backups should they need to Dayne’s input,” Rees said. pretty pleased with how I per-lead the offense in the future. “This time I was really ready formed going out there. He particularly emphasized to step up. throwing the ball, and he was “[Dayne] just kept telling Contact Mike Gotimer at satisfied with Rees’ passing me, keep pushing, keep work-mgotimer@nd.edu 



Irish sideline filled with injuries; Allen done for the year 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
While junior quarterback Dayne Crist’s injury garnered most of the headlines after Saturday’s 28-27 loss to Tulsa, other injuries to Irish players will play a key role in how Notre Dame finishes out the final three games of the season, and several impact players also may not suit up for the Irish for the remain­der of the season. Irish coach Brian Kelly addressed some of Notre Dame’s injury issues in his Sunday press conference. 
Crist underwent a successful surgery on the patellar tendon in his left knee on Sunday accord­ing to Kelly. 
“The patella tendon had, in fact, tore,” Kelly said. “It was reattached. The surgery went well, and we’re looking at a six-month recovery time.” 
The surgery was performed exactly one year to the day that Crist tore the ACL in his right knee in Notre Dame’s 40-14 win over Washington State. 
Crist’s injury could have an impact on the eligibility of fresh­men quarterbacks Andrew Hendrix and Luke Massa, as the Irish need to prepare a third quarterback. Kelly said that the team would begin working with the young quarterbacks in prac­tice this week. 
“We’re going to begin working with Hendrix and Massa this week, and we will whittle it down to one because obviously we’re now in a situation where we have to have another quar­terback that is ready,” Kelly said. 
Allen’s end 
Senior running back Armando Allen has likely played his last down for the Irish, and Notre Dame is setting up a date for him to have surgery on a hip flexor. Allen dressed on Saturday to run down the tunnel at Notre Dame Stadium one last time, Kelly said. 
“He has a right and left torn cartilage in the hip, I think specifically the labrum,” Kelly said. “We treated the first one. Clearly, if you watched him the Navy game, he played hard and played with great passion, but he did not have that second gear he had earlier in the year. 
“We dressed him so he could run out of the tunnel one last time because we were pretty certain he wasn’t [going to] be able to play again,” Kelly contin­ued. 
Lesser concerns 
Crist was the only player who sustained an injury on Saturday that will likely miss any time against Utah. Freshman line­backer Prince Shembo sustained a concussion on Saturday, but Kelly said that he is already improving. Junior linebacker Darius Fleming sustained an ankle injury, but he should be in the lineup against Utah. 
Sophomore linebacker Carlo Calabrese missed Saturday’s game with a hamstring injury, but he should be ready to play after the bye week and provide a boost to Notre Dame’s linebacker unit. 
“Carlo Calabrese is much bet­ter, we need this bye-week for him to get back,” Kelly said. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at 
mgotimer@nd.edu 


Monday, November 1, 2010 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Late interception seals ND’s fate 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

With only 36 seconds left in the fourth quarter, Tulsa cornerback John Flanders and Irish junior receiver Michael Floyd battled for a Tommy Rees pass deep in the end zone. 
When Flanders fell to the ground hold­ing the ball tight, Notre Dame’s chances of winning the back-and-forth game went out the window, as the Golden Hurricane held onto a 28-27 victory. 
“I would make the call again and I would hope that the process of learning would have a different outcome,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said of the play call. 
Though freshman quarterback Tommy Rees had moved the Irish into field goal range on the drive, Kelly stood by his decision to go for the possible touch­down. 
“We knew we had a one-on-one matchup with Mike Floyd. We certainly wanted to give that an opportunity for success and score a touchdown there,” Kelly said. “We took a timeout there to talk about it. I think we all know what happened there.” 
Kelly said the decision reflects how he has built his offense to play and he would make the same decision again. 
“But keep in mind, you better get used to it, because that’s the way we’re play­ing. If we can get a one-on-one matchup, and we think we can get that accom­plished, we’re going to call that play again and again,” he said. “We’ll make that play. We didn’t make it today. But in time we’ll make that play.” 
Not only did the Irish lose the game, but they also lost junior quarterback Dayne Crist for the remainder of the sea­son. In the second quarter, Crist ran the ball 29 yards for a first down, but fell and tore the petallar tendon in his left knee. 
Rees stepped in and took over for Crist after the season-ending injury. Rees threw for 334 yards and four touch­downs, two to Floyd and two to sopho­more running back Cierre Wood. 
“He wasn’t expected to play at all, so to fill that role with Dayne [Crist] going out. He did an exceptional job and he can only get better,” Floyd said. “That last play, it’s nothing he should put in his own hands — it’s a team effort.” 
Kelly’s comments concerning Rees’ play Saturday sounded very similar to Floyd’s comments. 
“[Rees is a] true freshman going out there, hasn’t played. He just competes. Took some big hits, got right back up,” Kelly said. “He’s a competitive kid. He loves to play. Throwing the ball is where he’s at. You know, that’s what he does well. He gets the ball out of his hands. He reads things.” 
Finishing the drive that injured Crist, Rees connected with Floyd for a 10-yard touchdown to bring the Irish within one of Tulsa, 7-6. Shortly after the extra point attempt left senior kicker David Ruffer’s foot, Tulsa’s Curnelius Arnick cradled the ball as he raced down the sideline for two Golden Hurricane points. 
Even after losing the momentum, Notre Dame took a 13-12 lead into the second quarter after a little bit of trick­ery led to Rees’ second touchdown of the day. Rees initially threw a short slant pass to freshman receiver TJ Jones. Before taking two steps, Jones pitched the ball to Wood as he flew down the sideline for a 23-yard score. 
Heading into halftime, the Irish held a 20-18 lead after Rees connected with Floyd for yet another touchdown. 
Rees wasn’t done yet either. To open the second half’s scoring, he found Wood for a six-yard score, bringing Notre Dame’s lead to 27-18. 
Tulsa retook the lead with 3:27 left in the game of a 29-yard field goal. The 28­27 lead held until Flanders fell to the grass with Rees’ final pass attempt of the day. 
Notre Dame was handicapped throughout the day as Crist joined senior running back Armando Allen, junior tight end Kyle Rudolph and sophomore receiver Theo Riddick on the sideline. While Kelly announced before the game Rudolph and Riddick would be held out of action, the absence of Allen was a game day surprise to spectators. 
“[Armando] may be out,” Kelly said after the game. “We’re not certain on that, but he wanted to dress and run through the tunnel in case it was his last time playing at Notre Dame 
“It seems every medical report I get, it ends with, done for the season.” 
With those players not on the field, Notre Dame has seen a large showing of younger players taking the most impor­tant snaps. 
“We had a lot of freshmen out there today, learning how to play this game, fighting,” Kelly said. “You got [freshman tight end] Tyler Eifert ... You got TJ Jones. [Sophomore receiver] Robby Toma hasn’t played ... They’re battling. I couldn’t be more proud of those kids.” 
Rees ended the game, his first with sig­nificant playing time, with 33 comple­tions on 54 pass attempts. 
Eifert pulled in five of Rees’ passes for 61 yards, and Jones matched him with five catches for 31 yards. Toma had four catches for 67 yards. 
Those youngsters will likely lead the Irish the rest of the season, as Notre Dame looks to win two of its final three games to qualify for a bowl game. 
“The most important thing still is for us to get six wins,” Kelly said. “We got to win two out of three now. That’s our No. 1 goal, to win two out of three games minimally to get to six wins.” 
Notre Dame has a bye this weekend, and then hosts No. 6 Utah on Nov. 13. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
N D  13  7  7  0  27  
TU LSA  12  6  7  3  28  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 0, Tulsa 7 
Damaris Johnson 9-yard pass from G.J. Kinne (Kevin Fitzpatrick kick) with 9:48 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 67 yards, 3:30 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 6, Tulsa 7 
Michael Floyd 10-yard pass from Tommy Rees (David Ruffer kick blocked) with 6:13 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 78 yards, 3:35 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 6, Tulsa 9 
Curnelius Arnick PAT return with 6:13 remaining Drive: 0 plays, 98 yards, 0:00 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 6, Tulsa 12 
Fitzpatrick 37-yard field goal with 2:59 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 60 yards, 2:59 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 13, Tulsa 12 
Cierre Wood 23-yard pass from Rees (Ruffer kick) with 1:21 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 58 yards, 1:38 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 20, Tulsa 12 
Floyd 4-yard pass from Rees (Ruffer kick) with 
8:10 remaining Drive: 13 plays, 80 yards, 5:05 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 20, Tulsa 18 Shawn Jackson 66-yard interception return (Kinne pass incomplete) with 0:37 remaining Drive: 0 plays, 66 yards, 0:00 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 27, Tulsa 18 
Wood 6-yard pass from Rees (Ruffer kick) with 
8:47 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 81 yards, 2:55 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 27, Tulsa 25 Johnson 59-yard punt return (Fitzpatrick kick) with 4:59 remaining Drive: 0 plays, 59 yards, 0:00 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 27, Tulsa 28 Fitzpatrick 27-yard field goal with 3:23 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 57 yards, 4:47 elapsed. 
statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

Time of Possession 

passing 
Rees  33-54-334  Kinne  18-34-196  
rushing  
Wood  16-60  Kinne  20-113  
Crist  1-29  Douglas  8-61  
Jackson  1-20  Johnson  6-36  
Hughes  4-12  Nelson  1-24  
receiving  
Floyd  11-104  Johnson, D.  4-46  
Eifert  5-61  Johnson, R.  3-52  
Wood  5-57  Roberson  3-24  
Jones  5-31  Cole  2-42  
Toma  4-67  Johnson  2-14  


page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 1, 2010 



More of the same 
Notre Dame dropped another game against a mid-major opponent Saturday. The 28-27 loss to Tulsa brought the Irish 
record to 4-5, putting any bowl game hopes in jeopardy. Junior quarterback Dayne Crist left the game in the first quarter, after suffering a season-ending knee injury for the second year in a row. In his place, freshman Tommy Rees racked up 334 yards and four touchdowns, 
along with three interceptions. The Golden Hurricane capitalized on Irish mistakes — scor­
ing two points off a blocked extra point attempt, returning an interception 66 yards for a score and returning a punt 59 yards for another touchdown. 
Tulsa quarterback G.J. Kinne accounted for 274 total yards, including 196 through the air. 




MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Senior nose tackle Ian Williams watches the game from the sidelines while wearing a shirt with the decal in honor of Declan Sullivan; senior linebacker Kerry Neal tackles a Tulsa ballcarrier; sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o finishes one of his eight tackles; sophomore running back Cierre Wood celebrates a six-yard touchdown during the third quarter; the Irish defensive line prepares for a snap. 




