the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Initiative works to endhunger 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student government’s “eND Hunger” campaign will target food scarcity in South Bend and hunger in the local community as the initiative kicks off tonight with an opening forum, senior Beth Simpson, chair of the cam­paign, said. 
“Rather than crossing the ocean to look for need, we are crossing the street to recognize the hunger that exists in our backyard,” Simpson said. “Rather than operating on a donations model which is more traditional and often easier, we are striving for increased com­munity engagement.” 
Simpson is directing the “eND Hunger” campaign along with members of student govern­ment and the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
“This issue highlights the University’s mission to put knowledge at the service of truth and charity,” Simpson said. “We are recognizing that campus exists within communi­ty with the residents of South Bend.” 
Student body president Catherine Soler and vice presi­dent Andrew Bell included fighting hunger in their plat­form for election last spring. Soler and Bell were inspired by the Global Water Initiative, which the preceding student 
see HUNGER/page 9 



Renters adjust to landlord 

By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the first installment in a two-part series about Kramer Properties and Campus Housing, which both lease off-campus housing to students in South Bend. 
Senior Carolyn Conley was one of over 300 students who signed a lease with Kramer Properties before learning via e-mail last spring that Campus Apartments would be managing her off-campus property this year. 
“I was a little surprised that they told us by e-mail because that seems like something more important, maybe a phone call or a letter in the mail,” Conley said. 
Mark Kramer, owner of the local management company Kramer Properties, sold a portion of his portfolio to Gross & Cohen Real Estate Investors two years ago, but maintained management of the properties to ease the transition process. Kramer sent an e-mail to students about the change in manage­ment in February. 
“We felt that was the most efficient and quickest way,” Kramer said. “We urged them that if they had further ques­tions, they could call our office, and many of them did.” 
As a result of negotiations between Kramer and Gross & Cohen, the terms of the lease students signed with Kramer were still valid after the transfer. 

Gross & Cohen chose Campus Apartments, a national management chain, to manage the properties, including Notre Dame Apartments. 
“I hadn’t heard of Campus Apartments so I was a little confused as to why Kramer hadn’t given us any indication that he was going to sell our house, but it wasn’t a really big deal,” Conley said. “I know everybody’s had a cou­ple issues this summer with like the dishwasher being checked and needing to get everything set up.” 
After Campus Apartments hired new staff members in August, Conley said manage­ment has improved. 
see KRAMER/page 9 



C-Store changes location 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Saint Mary’s C-Store moved locations within the College’s Student Center over fall break — a change that was met with mixed reviews from students upon their return to campus this week. 
The C-Store is now located in the space that was formerly occupied by the Cyber Café. It still serves the College commu­nity as a convenience store, offering food, medicine and per­sonal care products. 
“I don’t like the fact that they took away the tables,” Saint Mary’s junior Sarah Korbonits said about the new location. “It was a nice place to meet and eat with friends. However, it looks like it has potential to add a greater variety of food.” 
Junior Aileen Hurd agreed. 
“It looked a little cramped, but it seemed to be pretty good,” she said. 
Follett Higher Education Group, which now manages the Shaheen Bookstore, is using the space previously occupied by the C-Store for bookstore expan­sions. According to a Saint Mary’s press release issued ear­lier this semester, this renova­tion will occur during Christmas break. 
“Follett is proud to have Saint Mary’s College as our newest partner,” Follett president Tom 
see C-STORE/page 4 



Students attend Bessette canonization in Rome 

By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
A group of Notre Dame stu­dents studying abroad in Europe this semester were able to attend the canonization of St. André Bessette, the first member of the Congregation of Holy Cross to be canonized, in Rome Oct. 17. 
Last spring, the University con­tacted students who were plan­ning to go abroad this semester to gauge interest in attending the canonization, according to Fr. Joe Carey, interim director of Campus Ministry. 
“It was talked about in the spring that our students abroad would be the ones who would go,” Carey said. “We knew a long time ago that the canoniza­tion would be in October.” 
The students completed a short survey on why they wanted to attend the canonization and received an e-mail to notify them whether they were accepted. 
Some students, such as junior Sarah Kimball, who is currently studying abroad in Dublin, were drawn to the canonization because of prior knowledge of Bessette. 
“I decided to go because I learned about Brother André in a class last year, and I just thought it would be a once-in-a­lifetime experience to see a can­onization at the Vatican,” Kimball said. 
The group of students who made the trip from different countries around Europe they were in was treated to an all-weekend affair. The University had activities and meals sched­uled for the students from Friday evening to Sunday afternoon. 
Junior Monica Townsend, who is studying in Angers, France, said she was particularly touched by a film the group watched about Bessette’s life, called “The Miracle Man of Montreal.” 
see ROME/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER OIT promotes online safety page 4  Mellencamp to play in South Bend page 12  Men’s hockey tops No. 1 B.C. page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 26, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Chris Masoud Kristen Durbin Matthew Robison Emily Schrank Kelsey Manning 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Marissa Frobes 
Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Megan Kozak 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST PART OF YOUR FALL BREA ? 





Gabriela Elizondo  Matt Mikulski  Robert Niehaus  Cara O’Connor  
sophomore  freshman  junior  sophomore  
McGlinn  Alumni  Alumni  Regina  
“Doing service  “Sleeping.”  “Wakesurfing in  “Winning a  
work in  Georgia.”  kayak on ‘The  
Appalachia.”  Price Is Right.’”  


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Bill the Goat cheers on Navy at Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. on Saturday. Notre Dame lost to Navy, 35-17. 
OFFBEAT 
Georgia couple find escaped buffalo in pool 
CLEVELAND, Ga. — A north Georgia man said he and his wife found a neigh­bor’s buffalo in their swim­ming pool. Chris Nonnemaker said he and his wife noticed two holes in the pool’s cover and went outside to take a look Saturday morning in White County. Nonnemaker said they noticed something moving. When he pulled the pool cover back, Nonnemaker saw a buffalo that had escaped from a neighbor’s home. 
Nonnemaker called police and videotaped the animal’s rescue, which involved ropes to help coax the buffalo out near the shallow end. 

Deputies said the buffalo belonged to a neighbor and escaped with two others weeks ago. They said those two were caught shortly after they got away. 
Man rides lawnmower to free dog from city pound 
HYDRO, Okla. — An eld­erly Hydro man landed in jail after springing his prized pooch from the town kennel. Instead of paying a $100 fine for not having his poodle on a leash, 73-year­old Edwin Fry decided to bust Buddy Tough out, driving his lawnmower to the city pound Oct. 13 and breaking into the cage with bolt cutters. 
As the pair escaped, police officer Chris Chancellor intercepted them. 
Chancellor told The Oklahoman officers had received numerous com­plaints about Buddy Tough, who had been in the pound before. He said Fry had been told he could retrieve the dog and sort out the fine in court. 
“I’ve been in law enforce­ment 20 years, and this is the first time I’ve known of any­one that has busted a dog out of jail,” Chancellor told The Oklahoman. 
Fry spent several days in jail, and faces a municipal charge of allowing an animal to run at-large. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 







Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The seminar “Theoretical and Numerical Modeling of Two-phase Flows of Environmental Importance” will be held today at 11 a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering Room 258. Fabian Bombardelii, assistant professor of civil and environmental engi­neering at the University of California at Davis, will present. 
The lecture “Reflections on the Multiple Faces of the State” will take place today at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Room C­
103. Guillermo O’Donnell, pro­fessor emeritus of Political Science at Notre Dame, will speak. 
The lecture “A History of Violence? Realism and International Politics” will take place today at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sebastian Rosato, assistant professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, will speak. It is free and open to the public. 
Notre Dame’s first “Rosary for Life” will take place today at 6:30 
p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. A scriptural Rosary will be led by University President Rev. John Jenkins, with scripture passages and meditations read by students, faculty and staff before each of the five decades of the Rosary. 
The eND Hunger Kick-Off Forum will take place today at 
7:30 p.m. in the Geddes Hall Auditorium. It is the inaugural forum in a year-long series to spread awareness on campus regarding food scarcity in South Bend. The CEO of the Food Bank of Northern Indiana will speak. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Friday Saturday 

Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENTS page 3 page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 26, 2010 




OIT encourages online security 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Students can best protect themselves while shopping online by paying attention to who they are purchasing from, said David Seidl, Information Security Program Manager for Notre Dame’s Office of Information Technology (OIT). 
As part of National Cyber Security Awareness Month, OIT is working to inform students of the dangers that can come from breaches in cyber securi­ty, including online shopping. 
Seidl said the two biggest areas where online shoppers neglect to protect themselves are in checking the credibility of the site they purchase from and the form of payment they use to buy their merchandise. 
“People will go to one web­site and get linked over to some fly-by-night site that’s not something like an Amazon,” he said. 
In order to prevent being scammed, Seidl said students can visit resellerratings.com, a website with ratings on differ­ent online retailers. 
“Resellerrattings.com gener­ally gives you a star-based rat­ing scheme. If you see it has 500 and has been in business for 10 years, then the website is probably okay,” he said. 
Another general rule of thumb to keep in mind is to think about the type of deal the website is offering. 
“One of the giveaways is that if something is too good to be true, it probably isn’t [true],” Seidl said. 
Another area where online shoppers run into problems is in the way they chose to pay for their purchases. 
Seidl said the best way to pay for merchandise purchased online is with a one-time use credit card number. 
“The basic concept is that you are able to go to a credit card companies website and click on a function that can generate a one-time use num­ber,” he said. “The number is no longer valid after the pur­chase.” 
As opposed to giving a credit card number, where there is the possibility for someone to steal it and use it until the card expires, a one-time use num­ber will be invalid after the transaction is completed, Seidl said. 
If, however, an online pur­chaser must choose between using a credit card or a debit card, Seidl said to opt for the credit card. 
Aside from potentially giving a website complete access to one’s checking account, there are also more safeguards put into place for credit card theft. 
“Credit cards have more pro­tections by law so potential issues for you are much small­er,” he said. 
In addition to offering advice about online shopping, OIT is also hosting a number of speakers Tuesday at the Notre Dame Conference Center in McKenna Hall to advise on dif­ferent topics related to cyber security. 
The first portion of the day features two speakers, who will address topics aimed at technologically oriented stu­dents and professionals. 
During the afternoon, events will be geared toward a wider audience, with speakers focus­ing on securing one’s mobile phone and tips for parents to protect their students online. A complete listing of the day’s events can be found on OIT’s website. 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 



C-Store 
continued from page 1 

Christopher said in the press release. “Together, we can make the Shaheen Bookstore the chief resource to students and the entire Saint Mary’s community.” 
Sodexo is managing the C-Store — which was previously managed by the College — at its new location, according to the press release. 
“The new convenience store seems to offer the same items as the old convenience store, minus the movies for rent and balloons,” sophomore Cassie Fill said. “The new setup will take awhile to get used to.” 
According to the press release, the tables and chairs previously located in the Cyber Café will be dispersed through­out the Student Center atrium and lounge. 
Additionally, the C-Store will now remain open until mid­night. 
Karen Johnson, vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, said she believes students will appreci­ate the changes made to the C-Store and bookstore, according to the press release. 
“I think students will be happy with many of the upcom­ing changes to the Student Center, which include expand­ing the hours of the Café and convenience store to midnight,” she said. “The Student Center is their space, and we want them to feel at home in it.” 
Some students, however, remain unimpressed with the changes. 
“Disappointing,” junior Kate Simon said about the new store. “They didn’t have Arizona Tea.” 
Fill was also disappointed with the change. 
“My friends and I always enjoyed renting more recent movies from the C-Store last year,” she said. “But I’m inter­ested to see how the new con­venience store in the Cyber Café competes with the old one.” 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 



SMC offers safety education program 

By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
For the first time this semes­ter, the Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO) and the Saint Mary’s Security Department are collaborating to offer a special safety education pro­gram for students. 
The program, created by the National Self-Defense Institute, is not a self-defense class, but rather an educational session focusing on risk-reduction. In a two-hour session, called Self-Defense Awareness and Familiarization Exchange (S.A.F.E.), students learn gen­eral self-defense information and five basic techniques for risk-reduction. 
“S.A.F.E. teaches some excel­lent techniques and the time-commitment is easier to fit into a hectic schedule — making it a great introduction for college students,” Connie Adams, director of BAVO, said. “Participants have found the session both fun and valu­able.” 
The program, offered as a direct result of student inter­est, is one of the most com­monly requested BAVO pro­gram by students, Adams said. 
Staff from both BAVO and the Security Department work together as instructors for each session, Adams said. Members of both groups com­pleted training through the National Self-Defense Institute. 
Adams said the sessions offered through this program would be beneficial and practi­cal for Saint Mary’s students. 
“I believe that all women can receive a benefit from partici­pating in basic self-defense classes. Physical self-defense techniques are one small por­tion of risk reduction, many women feel empowered when they develop this skill set,” he said. 
Though the sessions are not self-defense classes, Adams notes that the information they offer is a step toward self-pro­tection. 
“It is not possible to entirely eliminate one’s risk of experi­encing violence,” Adams said. “However, every step we take to promote personal safety and reinforce the fact that violence is not a community value aids in our movement to eliminate violence and abuse.” 
The program’s free sessions are offered about once a month throughout the academ­ic year. The first session was held Sept. 16. 
The subsequent sessions for this semester will be held Tuesday and Dec. 1 at 6:45 
p.m. in conference rooms D, E and F in the Student Center. Sessions are also scheduled for next semester, and advance registration is required. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 



Rome 
continued from page 1 
“It was a really great orienta­tion to the life of the man we had come to see,” Townsend said, “and nearly everyone was tear­ing up hearing the testimonies of the people he had cured of some illness or disability.” 
The Center for Social Concerns also organized service projects for the students to participate in the day before the canonization, Carey said. The activities helped the students truly understand the services Bessette 

performed “It was an incredible Townsend said throughout his mixture of the the fact that the life. ceremony con-
wonder of being in a
“I went with a nected so many 
group that foreign country and people made it 
helped organize of the sense of home I an even more and sort medi-incredible expe­
get from Notre
cine for the St. rience. 
Dame.” 
Egidio communi-“It offered an ty, a service extreme sense of group that offers Sarah Kimball spirituality and aid and assis-also pride in 
junior
tance to the homeless and elderly in Rome and around the world,” Townsend said. “It really ham­mered home the theme of self­less service that Saint André exemplified.” 
For Kimball, the most power­ful experience was being sur­rounded by thousands of people who were all connected by their faith during the canonization in Saint Peter’s Square, Kimball said. 
“I always heard about how being Catholic meant you were part of a larger community that spans the world, and we are all connected by being Catholic,” Kimball said. “However, it was hard for me to really grasp that concept until I went to Rome and just saw the sheer number of people from all around the globe.” 
The canonization was an important one for not only the Congregation of Holy Cross, but also Canadian Catholics, as Bessette is the first Canadian saint. 
Pope Benedict XVI also canon­ized five other saints at the same time as Bessette. Excerpts about each saint were read in his or her native language, Townsend said, and after each name was announced, it was easy to tell 
where each 
saints’ following 
was located. 
being part of the 
Catholic commu­
nity, a communi­ty that really does touch every corner of the world,” Townsend said. “It was awesome that ND could give us that opportunity.” 
Even though they were thou­sands of miles away from South Bend, the group of students remained loyal to their school over the weekend by watching the Notre Dame football game against Western Michigan. 
“It was an incredible mixture of the wonder of being in a for­eign country and of the sense of home I get from Notre Dame,” Kimball said. 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 26, 2010 Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 26, 2010 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 




Group debates potential off-campus policies 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
In order to improve off-cam­pus student life at Notre Dame, Campus Life Council (CLC) examined other universities’ policies regarding off-campus parties and city police during its Monday meeting. 
“It seems that a lot of these programs grew out of situa­tions like we found ourselves in,” student body president Catherine Soler said, referring to the spike in off-campus arrests earlier this semester. “Things were getting really bad and they had to do something.” 
One of the schools CLC stud­ied is Colorado State University, where the University collaborated with local law enforcement through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to estab­lish a system for registering parties. Hosts of registered parties benefit from a warning and opportunity to correct the noise violation before police intervention. 
Soler said this program would be difficult to adapt to Notre Dame. 
“The immediate problem with that is it’s very high cost, and the area they live in is very low in crime,” she said. 
Other universities, such as Ball State and Duke, have used MOUs and appeals to state leg­islatures to enable campus police to patrol the surround­ing off-campus community. Andrew Bell, student body vice president, thought using Notre Dame Security Police or anoth­er third party to handle off-campus student incidents could be promising. 
“When we met with [South Bend Police], several officers communicated to us that they’d rather not have to deal with student parties,” Bell said. “We hope to set up a program where the response is still an office or administrator or immediate, like the police, but someone to deal with things in another form … that could like this,” Soler said. “Is it the effectively do the same thing as responsibility of Notre Dame to the police with-create an out straining administrator ... [South Bend “We’ve talked a lot to deal with 

Police] and with-about what the making sure off-out legal conse-campus stu­
community can do for
quences if dents’ needs are they’re not nec-off-campus students. being met?” essary.” The question in my Alex Kasparie, 
Based on the Knott Hall sena­
mind is what
example of tor, said a third-Boston College, students can do for party solution which uses off-the off-campus would be c a m p u s appealing to stu­
community.” 
Resident dents. Assistants to “I think any patrol and deal Fr. Pete McCormick student is going with problemat-rector to tell you they’d ic parties, CLC rather have 
Keough Hall 
discussed the someone else possibility of knocking on instating similar positions as their door than SBPD,” well as developing an adminis-Kasparie said. “I think that’s tration position to deal with definitely an appealing thing off-campus life exclusively. for most students.” 
“A lot of other schools have Keough Hall rector Fr. Pete McCormick said that, regard­less of University or community cooperation, students would have to contribute to the effort. He said students would proba­bly have to trade off some pri­vacy through registering hous­es and parties if they want to benefit from warnings or non-police intervention. 

“We’ve talked a lot about what the community can do for off-campus students. The ques­tion in my mind is what stu­dents can do for the off-cam­pus community,” McCormick said. “There’s got to be some accountability.” 
Bell reminded members that it would require a specialized and adapted policy to fit the unique Notre Dame community. 
“We understand no solution is going to be perfect at anoth­er school or perfect for us at Notre Dame.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 




Wootravels to promote ethics 
Special to The Observer 
As the new school year started, Carolyn Y. Woo had logged more than 62,000 air travel miles during the summer. That’s four major con­tinents — with repeat visits to sever­al — in less than 100 days. 
From Uganda to Shanghai, New York, Hong Kong and Australia, the Martin J. Gillen Dean of Notre Dame’s Mendoza College of Business talked with more than a dozen business and alumni groups about a topic she finds increasingly urgent in shaping the global market­place: business ethics and corporate social responsibility. 
“When we see the recent cases of corporate misconduct, we can easily agree that ethics and values are sorely needed as foundational lead­ership principles,” Woo said. “But there’s a bigger picture here, too, that goes beyond business ethics as the answer to irresponsible behav­ior. On the global level, business can be a force for good in solving soci­ety’s problems, such as poverty, vio­lence and disease. This is the con­versation that should be taking place in classrooms, boardrooms, C-suites and government offices.” 
Woo, who has traveled extensively to some of the world’s most trouble­some hot spots, including Afghanistan and Pakistan, often works with the United Nations and other NGOs, such as the nonprofit Catholic Relief Services, to study and work with groups involved with social responsibility efforts. 
During her visit to Uganda in June, Woo conducted a needs-assessment workshop for a group of 40 African bishops and religious leaders from 10 countries of Eastern Africa; namely, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Rwanda and Burundi. The workshop, sponsored by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB), was intended to help these leaders develop human and resource capacity in an effort to meet the increasingly complex demands of their congregations as they faced HIV/AIDS, violence and the rise of radical Islam. 

Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Hunger 
continued from page 1 
government administration developed during the 2009­2010 school year. 
“We wanted an issue a little more relevant to the South Bend area,” Soler said. “It is great to see Notre Dame stu­dents out in the community and really trying to make a dif­ference in an innovative way.” 
The hunger campaign will target the west side of South Bend in particular. 
“We identified the west side of South Bend as a food desert based on research done by Notre Dame students and the United States Department of Agriculture,” Simpson said. “This means people living there have a decreased or at times no access to healthy and affordable foods.” 
Simpson said food scarcity results from lack of access in terms of distance, cost and availability of fresh and healthy foods. These factors are accompanied by greater access to fast food and other unhealthy options. 
Seventy-eight percent of northern Indiana households with children are food inse­cure, Simpson said. 
“Feeding the hungry is a direct corporal work of mercy that can also be achieved through a holistic awareness of the way we live,” Simpson said. 
The initiative is broken into two main parts — community and campus. 
“The first part is community engagement,” Simpson said. “We have organized and brought together a coalition of community leaders who work in South Bend with food scarci­ty or who work on South Bend’s west side to discuss the present need.” 

The community coalition met for the first time Oct. 15 to dis­cuss the needs on the west side of South Bend. 
“We are capitalizing on the community leaders and asking them to articulate the vision they have for the area,” Simpson said. “Notre Dame student government is one member at the table to con­tribute to this larger communi­ty effort.” 
The coalition will decide a specific direction for its efforts during the next meeting. Options include forming a food cooperative, bringing another grocery store to the area, working to bring fresh pro­
“Feeding the hungry 

duce to corner Simpson said markets and is a direct corporal the challenge advocating for for the “eND 
work of mercy that

transportation Hunger” vision 
can also be achieved

changes, is creating a Simpson said. through a holistic connection to 
The second the community 
awareness of the way

branch of the that will last 
we live.” 

campaign is beyond this campus year. engagement to Beth Simpson “I think inform Notre hopefully that 
chair 

Dame students when our term 
eND hunger campaign

and faculty comes to an 
utes from campus who do not know from where their next meal comes or how they might provide food for their children each evening,” Simpson said. 
CSC community partnerships director Annie Cahill Kelly par­ticipated in the community meeting several weeks ago. 
“My main hope is for sustain­ability for the project,” Cahill Kelly said. “I hope the good work they are doing will serve as a foundation for involve­ment on student’s behalf for many years to come.” 
Ensuring a long-standing connection the community needs to be a focus in this proj­
ect, Cahill Kelly 
said. 

about food scarcity in the local communi­ty. 
Tonight’s forum in Geddes Hall will feature the CEO of the Food Bank of Northern Indiana Lisa Jaworski and senior Laura Beverly, who will speak about local hunger. Later forums will also host leaders from the community to speak to Notre Dame students and faculty. 
“We are hoping the forums can be a conversation between the community and the stu­dents,” Simpson said. “ 
Notre Dame students can be liaisons between the communi­ty, farmers and entrepreneurs, Simpson said. 
“This part of the campaign can help us all to realize there are individuals living ten min-
end the efforts and commitments people have made to the local groups will continue,” Soler said. 
Ongoing events include a food drive lasting until Nov. 19 and Domer Dollar collections in LaFortune Student Center in mid-November. Cahill Kelly said this collaboration between groups, along with the variety events, is key to making a dif­ference in the South Bend community. 
“Any time that groups on campus collaborate, we further the goal of creating the king­dom of God together,” Cahill Kelly said. “It is tough work to do solely.” 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




Kramer 
continued from page 1 
“I think they’ve come up with a pretty good team so every­thing’s been running smooth since then,” Conley said. 
Conley said the team keeps in touch with students on a regu­lar basis. For example, Campus Apartments delivered free HotBox Pizza to student resi­dents earlier this semester. 
“They’ve been really good about timely response,” chain helps us because we do have a lot of structure that if ever we need something, there’s always someone there,” Champagne said. 
Champagne expects a strong leasing season for Campus Apartments, which manages more than 68 houses and 44 apartments in the area. 
“I think they are just going a little bit slower this year as opposed to last year,” Champagne said. 
Rent depends on the proper­ty’s location, amenities and 
other factors. 
Conley pays 

Conley  said.  “Notre Dame students  $475 per month  
“Their office is really accessible, so even though I  are a tight-knit community, so we just  for a five-person house on Wayne S t r e e t .  
don’t  need  to  want to make sure  Champagne said  
contact them very much, they seem like they are doing a good job of staying  that we are helping them in any way possible.”  that rent would stay the same for next year. C a m p u s Apartments also  
connected with the students.” D a n i e l l e C h a m p a g n e  Danielle Champagne regional manager Campus Apartments  offers students a r o u n d -t h e ­clock emergency m a i n t e n a n c e  

became regional manager of Campus Apartments’ South Bend office in August. 
Champagne said student complaints have been “mini­mal.” 
“We do quarterly inspec­tions,” Champagne said. “We go through and we fix problems that students sometimes don’t tell us about.” 
Champagne said faulty appli­ances are typical when students move into properties. 
“Whenever students aren’t here for two months, appli­
ances sit, and sometimes they don’t know how to properly use the items,” Ch ampagne said. “Next year, our goal is that, when students go in, to go in with them and show them how to use every piece of equip­ment in their house.” 
According to Cham pagne , 
Campus Apartments has already made the necessary improvements as a new man­agement company in the area. The company has updated its website with an interactive map of properties’ floor plans and is hiring a leasing agent to add to the three-person, full-time staff. 
“We have a very steady staff who are young and fun and energetic, who are just looking to plan events and get to know the residents individually,” Champagne said. “Notre Dame students are a tight-knit com­munity, so we just want to make sure that we are helping them in any way possible.” 
Champagne recognized the advantages of being a part of a national chain serving colleges and universities across the country. 
“I think being a national and ADT alarm 
systems. 
“It’s up to their discretion and their parents’ discretion to acti­vate it,” Champagne said about the security systems. 
Senior Colin Parker, who also lives in a house managed by Campus Apartments, said he has not had any safety or secu­rity issues this year. 
“I feel very safe because we have been good about locking our doors even when we are home, turning on the security systems when we are home,” Parker said. “I don’t think Campus Apartments has 
had much to do 

“Go over to Campus 
with that.” 

Apartments and look 
When the at their options. What house’s shower was clogged and 
was valuable to us 
wasn’t running, 

was proximity to 
Parker said campus but also to Campus other college Ap artments responded the 
students.” 
following day. 

“We took that Colin Parker issue first to senior Campus 
Apartments, ” 
Parker said. “They did a very good job of turning it around and calling somebody.” 
Parker, who had signed with Kramer during the second semester of his sophomore year, advises students consider­ing off-campus living to shop around early. 
“Go over to Campus Apartments and look at their options,” Parker said. “What was valuable to us was proxim­ity to campus but also to other college students.” 
The second installment of this series will examine the changes Kramer Properties has experi­enced since selling many of its homes to Campus Apartments. It will run in tomorrow’s Observer. 

Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 


The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, October 26, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Oh ‘Glee’ 

When “Glee” premiered on Fox in May of 2009, it was the talk of the town. The show, about a high school glee club in Ohio, was clever, witty, featured great musical numbers by talented young performers and 
Maija Gustin 
really captured the highs and 
Assistant 
lows of growing 
Scene Editor 

up in high school. However, now in its second season, “Glee” has gone stale, relying on popular music and tribute episodes to draw in audiences. Though still successful, I think “Glee” has lost everything that once made it great. But all hope is not lost. Though I am increasingly disappointed with where the show is going, I have hope that “Glee” can regain its sta­tus as one of the smartest shows on television. 
Tonight, the “Glee” kids tackle the iconic “Rocky Horror Show” in a Halloween-inspired episode. “Rocky Horror” is a cult classic and could be a defining moment for the show. Will they do justice to a beloved musical (and movie) or will they drown it in the depths of mediocrity as they so often do? Only time, and a little Time Warp, will tell. But here are my suggestions for how “Glee” could return to greatness. 
Stop creating plots based around music, rather fit the songs to the plot. In the beginning, “Glee” fea­tured really creative and thought-out plots and then picked great songs to fit into them. Now, most episodes feel like they were written in order to highlight certain songs. And in my opinion, that doesn’t work. At all. “Glee” once had style, edge and finesse, but now, the story-lines are hopelessly mundane. And tackling serious issues, like religion, doesn’t make you edgy and button pushing, by the way. 
Enough with the tribute episodes. The Madonna episode was great. Really great. One of the best, in my opinion. But that’s because “Glee” made Madonna’s music fit in per­fectly and they took great creative liberties with her songs. So do it right, or don’t do it at all. 
Learn how to transition into songs. “I don’t want to say it. I want to sing it,” is not a clever way to transition into song. In fact, it’s embarrassing­ly uncreative. 
“Glee” covers of popular songs are great because they take an already great song and rewrite it for the glee club kids in a really cool way. The songs are tributes, but they are also totally unique to the show. Remember “Don’t Stop Believing” from the pilot? That was amazing. But now, nearly every song on the show basically sounds like the origi­nal. What’s the point in having these amazingly talented kids on your show if you’re not going to let them show off what they can do? 
Sue Sylvester is still funny. No complaints there. 

“Glee” is still hugely popular and I’d be lying if I said I don’t watch it regularly. But I watch it because I have faith that it can return to its roots and become truly great again. So here’s hoping. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
Studying abroad in Washington 
Like many sophomores at Notre Dame, I always believed that when I “studied abroad” my junior year, I would actually be in a different country. 
Whether it was London or Rome, I, like many other stu-
Lukas Mansour 
dents, hoped to venture outside of 
Guest
the United States in 
Columnist
hopes of learning about the culture and inner-workings of another country. 
As I moved through my sophomore year, however, I learned that even as a political science major, I still did not have a solid understanding of what goes on in the United States itself. 
The Washington Program provided me with an opportunity that no other place could — the opportunity to gain real work experience in a field I was interested in, all while living in a world-class city that oper­ated at the very center of America’s being. 
While many of my fellow classmates overlooked Notre Dame’s Washington Program for these chances to go abroad, (and by all means, that was also a great decision) I found myself in Washington, and I have been lucky enough to have many experiences and opportunities that can only be found in the nation’s capital. 
As young professionals in Washington, we’ve already been exposed to a wide variety of events and experiences that have allowed us to learn and grow in a way that Notre Dame could never be able to provide. Every week, students go on a public policy visit to various places in the Washington area. These public policy vis­its comprise three credits of what is a six-credit public policy course (yes, that means three credits for simply visiting the most interesting places Washington has to offer). 
The highlight of these visits is unques­tionably the visit to the White House, including meetings in the Executive Office Building and a tour of the West Wing. The visit allowed us to get unparalleled insight into what goes on in the White House on a daily basis. 
“I felt like one of the lucky few that gets to see the inner workings of government, although I didn’t particularly like the new décor,” junior Henry Eggers said. “I felt privileged to be there and I hope to go back someday, but for a slightly different reason.” 
“I really enjoyed the interview part [of the White House experience],” junior Jee-Seun Choi said. “My favorite part was just listening to how things work in the West Wing, and hearing about people’s experi-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

ence when their bosses change.” 
Taking classes in Washington is a unique experience for several reasons. Because of the small size of the program, students are able to receive individual attention from professors that are at the top of their particular fields. In the required course on public policy, students hold discussions on many of the most sig­nificant issues in society and try to explore different methods to tackle these prob­lems. 
“Most of our professors work in the field they teach,” sophomore Christine D’Alessandro said. “Having small classes allows for active, learning and engaging class discussions.” 
“The classes have much more of a prac­tical, applicable feel than most political science classes we would take back on campus,” junior Julie Kirk said. 
Often times, professors will bring in a colleague who is an authority on a partic­ular issue, giving students an opportunity to meet people who are very influential in the political sphere. The American Political Journalism class, for example, gives students the opportunity to meet Washington Post journalists and take trips to various media outlets such as CNN. 
“[My American Political Journalism] class is my favorite,” D’Alessandro said. “It’s taught right on the news floor of the Washington Post and we have incredible speakers each week.” 
The Washington Program also provides a city-school experience that many Notre Dame students may have longed to try but have never had the chance to. 
Students are housed in an apartment complex in one of the nicest and most vibrant areas in Washington. The apart­ment houses hundreds of kids from other universities across the country that have also come to Washington to explore vari­ous internship opportunities. 
“There’s always something to do here,” D’Alessandro said. “There are plenty of museums, festivals, rallies and shows, and it’s easy to travel to other cities such as Philadelphia and New York.” 
“Washington D.C is an incredible combi­nation of past and present,” junior Mike Johnson said. “You really cannot go any­where without seeing or experiencing some part of American history.” 
But as any Washington Program student would tell you, in the end it is the intern­ship that is the backbone of the entire pro­gram. 
“The policy visits are unmatched, but ultimately, the internship is what sets the Washington Program apart,” Nesi said. 
“No other program gives students a com­parable opportunity.” 
Nesi also sees an additional value in interning during the semester. 
“During the semester, there’s a lot hap­pening — Congress is in session, elections are going on — and there’s not a glut of interns to do it all,” Nesi said. “During the semester, most interns aren’t just sorting mail or making coffee, they’re getting sub­stantive experience that will help them when the time comes to get and actually do a real job.” 
Many students feel that an internship in a big city environment such as Washington will better prepare them for life after graduation. 
“I definitely feel that [my internship] will help me in the future,” junior Alyssa Morones said. “I love that my internship allows me to deal with real-world issues while giving me better insight into the inner-workings of Washington culture.” 
“I work at the South Korean embassy and working at the embassy helped me find out what I am really interested in,” Choi said. “I am really enjoying working there, and I’m finding out more about myself, which has been a good experience for me.” 
Many students who participate in the Washington Program wind up returning to work in the city after graduation. Nesi, who is himself an alum of the Washington Program, currently works for the Obama administration in the White House. The program has played an integral part in forming a link between Notre Dame and the nation’s capital. 
“Washington Program students, both current and former, are wonderful ambas­sadors for the University in our nation’s capital,” said Tom Kellenberg, the pro­gram’s executive director. 
Notre Dame prides itself on educating both the heart and the mind, emphasizing the great importance of learning outside the classroom. The Washington Program is furthering Notre Dame’s mission for its students. It is truly one of the best-kept secrets at Notre Dame. 
“This has been my first time living in an American city, and it’s given me a great impression,” Choi said. “It’s so different from Notre Dame, but I really like being with all different types of people and doing many different things.” 
Lukas Mansour is a junior. He can be contacted at lmansour@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Success is not the result of spontaneous combustion. You mustset yourself on fire.” 
Reggie Leach Retired NHL Player 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Having a dream is what keeps youalive. Overcoming the challengesmake life worth living.” 
Mary Tyler MooreAmerican Television Actress 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 26, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Celebrate seniors 
The senior class is on the brink of an achieve­ment that has never been accomplished. Assuming (and this is a big assumption) that the football team beats Tulsa this weekend, the game against Utah will be our chance to break the record of most losses in a four-year period, previously owned by the Class of 1964. When we get steamrolled by Utah on Nov. 13, we will offi­cially be the losingest class in Notre Dame History. That day will also be Senior Day, a day that the senior class is allowed on the field at the end of the game. The senior class should not walk onto the field, but storm the field in cele­bration of its four seasons as spectators in the student section. The senior class should show its thanks and appreciation for a record-breaking four seasons by storming the field at the closing of the loss to Utah on Nov. 13. 
Matthew McManus 
senior Off-campus Oct. 25 

Absence of toughness 
I am writing this with 11 minutes to go in the third quarter, but this game is over. OVER. Perhaps we should rename ourselves the Gentle Irish. Or the Fighting Amish. Because we show no visible evidence of toughness, mental or physical. We are plenty athletic, but are devoid of heart. We win three games in a row and think we’re really something. We didn’t want to play Michael Floyd “unless it was an emergency???” Talk about not respecting your opponent. And we’ve been working on the option “since last summer???” If that’s true, the entire defensive staff needs to be fired today. We do not need more talent. We need a complete attitude over­haul. 
Mike Schafer 
alumnus Class of 1982 Oct. 23 


Of the people, by the people and for the people 
Dear Ryan Williams, 

In your letter on Oct. 14 (“Hats off to Judge Phillips”), you simultaneously praised judicial activism while, remarkably, providing a much stronger argument against it. Judicial activism is exactly the monstrous evil people make it out to be! Our Constitution represents a contract between the people and their government. The cornerstone of this contract is that laws can only be made with the consent of the governed through their elected offi­cials. Every time a judge substitutes their own opin­ion rather than adhering to the laws as written, it violates the contract and calls into question what rights we truly have if a judge can so easily ignore the will of the people. 
I note that you cited one unassailable landmark case, Brown v. The Board of Education, perhaps to gloss over the incredible weakness of the others you mentioned. In Brown v. Board there was no dis­agreement that Brown was entitled to an equal edu­cation, the question was merely the criteria for equality, which fits well within the scope of the courts. The same cannot be said for the other cases. 
In Roe v. Wade the Supreme Court infamously made up a right that was never mentioned in the Constitution, while simultaneously claiming federal jurisdiction over something that was clearly the domain of the states. Likewise, in Citizens United it seemed like the justices started with an outcome they wanted and then found a way to interpret the First Amendment to support it. 
Regarding the issue at hand, I have not made my mind up yet. On one hand, I am generally opposed to the possibility of any sort of romantic relation­ship on the very front lines of a war. At the same time, I recognize that there are other regulations that could be enacted to prevent this, and many members of the military are not even on the front lines. Either way, I know that I want this decision to come through the proper channels and not by some judge running an end around on the legal system. 
Rory Murphy 
alumnus Class of 2004 Oct. 22 
UWIRE 

Immoral charity pays drug addicts to become sterile 
Drug abuse is a serious problem, not just in the United States, but all over the world. Among the worst victims of this global plague are the children born to drug-addled parents. A woman named Barbara Harris could tell you all about this, as she adopted and raised four chil-
Karen Ingram 
dren born to the same crack-addicted woman. 

Kansas State
“My husband and I had to 

Collegian
take shifts with him,” Harris said of her second child, Taylor, in a Feb. 8 BBC News article. “He would sleep 10 minutes, wake up screaming. I was just angry at his mom, I thought how could somebody do this to a baby?” 
Harris’ inventive solution to the problem became Project Prevention, an organization that pays drug-addicted parents $300 apiece for long-term birth control, which includes anything from Depo-Provera shots to more permanent methods of tubal ligations and vasectomies — in short, sterilization. 
According to Project Prevention’s latest statistics, which were updated on their website Oct. 17, they have paid a total of 3,600 “clients” in all 50 states. Of those clients, 1,319 had tubal ligations and 54 had vasectomies, which means the number of “clients” who became sterile is about 1 in 3. 
Project Prevention has also recently gone global. BBC news reported in an Oct. 17 article that Project Prevention is offering 200 pounds, or $318, to addicts in various UK cities, including London and Glasgow, if they agree to the aforementioned birth control. 
Harris and Project Prevention have been attacked by critics who compare this charity organization to Nazi programs in the 1930s that sterilized or killed groups of people deemed to be unsuitable for procreation, including Jews and mentally handicapped people. Harris has also been accused of being a racist and targeting poor and drug-addicted minorities. 
I wouldn’t go so far as to accuse Harris of prac­ticing eugenics, and I don’t think she’s racist, either. Harris is white, but her four adopted chil­dren are black or of mixed ethnicity and her hus­band is black. Also, the statistics on her website show that more than half of her “clients” are white. Also, I can certainly see her side of things, as many babies born to drug-addicted mothers suf­fer from withdrawals, premature birth, physical and mental problems, among other things. I under­stand her desire to end the suffering of children. 
That being said, Project Prevention leaves me with a bad taste in my mouth because I can see such a “charitable project” being carried out on other groups of people someone might deem “unsuitable” for procreating. 
There are many children born into less than ideal conditions all the time, and although I bemoan the overpopulation of the planet, I get a chill at the thought of people being paid to get sterilized because they are deemed unworthy breeding stock. There are millions of children in the U.S. who suffer without drugs coming into the picture. According to worldhunger.org, 13 million children in the U.S. are hungry. Should poor peo­ple be sterilized to spare their children from pain and suffering? Should people be sterilized because they have Down syndrome? Or because schizo­phrenia runs in their family? Or diabetes? What about people who are HIV positive? 
What about the children of people who are “suf­fering” because their livelihoods conflict with someone else’s belief system? Should gays be ster­ilized? Or illegal immigrants? 
When you target one group of people because of the harm they could do to their children, you run the risk of declaring open season on anyone who might be “undesirable.” As I’ve already stated, I believe the population is dangerously high on this planet. I also meet people every day who annoy me to the point of thinking “Gee, I hope this idiot never breeds,” but I am not arrogant enough to believe I can choose who should or should not have children. I don’t believe any individual — or charity — should be given the power to make that call. 
This is a choice that should be left up to the indi­vidual. I choose not to have children because, whether I raised them or not, they would be genet­ically predisposed to depression, thyroid disorders, obesity, high blood pressure, diabetes and my less-than-charming personality traits. The choice not to procreate is mine, as it should be for anybody else, whether they’re an addict or just a jerk. 
The world does not need charities that prevent people from procreating. There is already an award out there given to people who find amazing­ly stupid ways of preventing themselves from con­tributing to the gene pool. It’s called the Darwin Awards. Support that, instead. 
This column first appeared in the Oct. 20 edition of the Kansas State Collegian, the daily publication serving Kansas State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Tiuesday, October 26, 2010 
His South Bend show will feature His shows usually include 
old favorites as well as cuts from both solo acoustic and full band Scene Writer his latest album, “No Better Than sets, with something to please This,” which was produced by everyone. The concert is a great 
Heartland Rocker and Indiana famed artist and producer T Bone opportunity for students interested native John Mellencamp will play Burnett and released to positive in music, or even parents in town Nov. 13 at South Bend’s Morris critical reception. The album, for the Utah game that same Performing Arts Center, as the which Mellencamp has described weekend, to see a living legend Grammy Award winning artist as “folk”, was recorded at a num-perform. embarks on his “No Better Than ber of historic locations on his last 
This” tour. Tickets that were previ-tour, including Sun Studios in ously on hold have recently been Memphis and San Antonio’s 
By ROSS FINNEY 

Around the Bend
made available. Gunter Hotel, where famed blues Mellencamp is best known for musician Robert Johnson record­‘80s hits like “Jack and Diane” and ed. 
W hat:John Mellencamp, “NoBetter Than This” Tour 
“Small Town,” and was part of a As a special treat for this tour, 
W here:Morris Performing Arts 
wave of back-to-basics rockers audiences will get to view the doc-
Center, South Bend, Ind. 
that include Bruce Springsteen umentary film “It’s About You” 
W hen:Saturday, Nov. 13, 6:45 
and Tom Petty. Mellencamp has before the show, which chronicles p.m.
put his rock star days behind him his baseball stadium tour with Bob How much:Tickets start at but has remained active in record-Dylan as well the recording ses-$39.50 ing and touring with the likes of sions for the “No Better Than Learnmore:morriscenter.org John Fogerty, Bob Dylan and Willie This” album. The film, made by Nelson. His roots rock sound and famed photographer Kurt Markus, his stories about everyday folks offers a unique behind-the-scenes 
earned him a spot in the Rock and glimpse into Mellencamp’s writing Contact Ross Finney at Roll Hall of Fame in 2008. and recording. trfnney@gmail.com 

did).
By BRANDY CERNE 

There is less variety in the scares of this film. 
Scene Writer 

The audience already knows there will be 
slamming doors, but there needs to be some-
After hearing that a sequel was in the works thing new to get under the audience’s skin even for last year’s surprise horror hit “Paranormal more. Warning: there is a basement involved, Activity,” expectations of many were low. After but these scenes were not as horrifying as they all, part of the appeal of the original film was could have been. Just the thought of a base-the fact that it was made on a shoestring budg-ment in a film like this is terrifying, but one et of $11,000, yet still managed to scare audi-comes away from it wanting more. ences more than most horror films in recent Granted, “Paranormal Activity 2” still delivers years. A sequel with amped-up funding, studio 
supervision and a different director could not possibly live up to its predecessor, right? 
Well, yes, but that doesn’t mean that “Paranormal Activity 2” isn’t full of frightening moments that will stay with you long after you leave the theater. The chilly scenes just don’t have the full impact or originality of those in the first film. 
More of a prequel than a sequel, “Paranormal Activity 2” takes place a few weeks before the happenings of the first film. The story follows the unusual occurrences at the original main character Katie’s sister’s house. After a sup­posed robbery, Kristi (Sprague Graydon) and 

her husband Dan (Brian Bolden) set up a sur­veillance system in different rooms around the plenty of screams and jumps, but thinking back house. Without giving too much away, since to some of the scenes in the original can still be both films are best enjoyed with a spoiler-free quite disturbing, and these new scares just mind, Kristi starts to get spooked. Dan is reluc-aren’t as enduring once the film is over. tant to believe anything paranormal is going One of the main reasons people are so scared on, but when his teenage daughter, Ali (Molly by these films is that with the low quality cam-Ephraim), starts to investigate, the signs eras and unrecognizable actors, one can start become too large to ignore. Adding to the to believe that this could happen in any home. stakes are a new baby, Hunter, and a pet dog. The thought of being home alone becomes 
Directed by Tod Williams, the story unfolds much more frightening, as the danger comes through the combination of surveillance footage from inside and seemingly without reason. and handheld family video recorder, which is “Paranormal Activity 2” provides some expla­similar to the first film but allows the audience nation, which may have seemed like a good to see even more of the house than before. idea in moving the plot forward, but actually Now, it’s unclear where danger lies. It could be makes it less scary for the audience and takes in any of the rooms, and it becomes impossible away the idea that this can happen to anyone. to resist combing over every shot for something Still, “Paranormal Activity 2” is good fun and disturbing. This waiting and building of sus-a suspenseful film that rises above many of the pense is what works so well for the films. so-called horror films of today. It’s a sequel that “Paranormal Activity 2” follows the pattern of actually works, and, while a downgrade from the original by starting slowly, but never really the original, is much better than expected. seems to build up to as quite a large and terri­fying ending as it should (and as the first film Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, October 26, 2010 page 13 


but she at least makes an effort in best friends. Alison and Peter once a Southern housewife, the neighbors 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 

“Life As We Know It.” It helps that had the noble intention to set their bring more laughs than either of the 
Associate Scene Editor 

she’s a chef and makes really deli-best friends up. The date, however, stars. Josh Lucas as Sam, Sophie’s 
The Katherine Heigl-starring “Life cious-looking cakes. went horribly and they didn’t even attractive pediatrician, enters the pic­as We Know It” really isn’t that terri-On the other hand, Josh Duhamel make it to the restaurant. Several ture for the necessary love triangle. ble. But don’t get your hopes up. It’s really is charming. His perpetual-years later, they are godparents to So yes, “Life as We Know It” is not great, either. It’s exhaustingly bachelor character has been seen a Sophie, though they still conveniently cheesy, formulaic and doesn’t pack predictable and features just about million times over in all sorts of hate each other. any clever surprises. But, to its credit, every romantic comedy trope that movies, but Duhamel has enough When Sophie’s parents die in a car it’s still entertaining. Director Greg exists. It is exactly the kind of un-charisma and swagger to make Eric accident, Holly and Eric must move in Berlanti, known for work with televi­clever and cheesy movie that is killing 
sion shows like “Everwood” and the romantic comedy genre and yet “Brothers & Sisters,” knows how to brings in millions of dollars at the box create romantic and domestic come-office nonetheless. dy, drawing on everything from poop 
However, it does have a few to pot to generate laughs. redeeming qualities. Katherine Heigl For those who enjoy romantic come-as Holly is not nearly as annoying as dies about mismatched lovers, “Life she usually is. Though far from as We Know It” will probably fit the charming, she doesn’t reach the bill completely — it’s cute, it’s funny depths of grating irritability that she and baby Sophie is adorable. Putting has mastered in some of her other a baby into the middle of a romantic performances. She’s still hard to like, comedy at least makes it feel like the 
generic plot line has changed a little. Or maybe the baby just distracts from it. 
For those who don’t tear up at corny happy endings, stay away. Katherine Heigl may not be as annoy­ing as usual, but she is far from charismatic. And even an adorable baby couldn’t save this movie. 
The ending is sweet and will please 
the right audience. So if your stomach Messer endearing and sympathetic. and raise Sophie together. The ending can handle cheesy one-liners, make-And the baby at the heart of the is predictable, but “Life” hits some ups and break-ups and dramatic movie, Sophie, is too cute to not love. bumps and wins some laughs on the chases to the airport, then have no Played by triplets, Sophie steals the way. Most notably, Holly and Eric find fear. It really isn’t terrible. movie from her first scene on. themselves surrounded by a group of 
Alison and Peter are married, and neighbors trying to help out. Led by Contact Maija Gustin at Holly and Eric are their respective Melissa McCarthy (“Gilmore Girls”) as mgustin@nd.edu 


BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 26, 2010 
NFL 

Saints try to pinpoint issue as Brees struggles 
Associated Press 
METAIRIE, La. — Drew Brees still smells greatness in the New Orleans Saints’ locker room, even though the defend­ing champs stunk up the Louisiana Superdome during their most recent performance against struggling Cleveland. 
“We’re all in the midst of trying to put our finger on what exactly is going on,” Brees said Monday, a day after the Saints dropped to 4-3 with a stunning 30-17 loss to the Browns. “We know the type of team we have. We know the type of work ethic we have. The effort is there. Guys want to win. Guys want to be great.” 
Last season, the Saints wore T-shirts around the locker room that read, “smell great­ness,” a motto derived from a motivational speech they got from San Francisco 49ers Hall of Fame safety Ronnie Lott. They won their first 13 games in 2009, lost only three all season and won their first Super Bowl. 
In 2010, the Saints have vac­illated from super (a 31-6 win at Tampa Bay), to so-so (close wins over struggling Carolina and San Francisco) to plain sloppy (turnover-filled losses to Cleveland and Arizona). 
Brees, who had 11 intercep­tions all of last season, has 10 already in this campaign, tying him with Brett Favre for the league lead in that catego­ry heading into Monday night’s game. 
Against Cleveland, Brees was intercepted four times, tying a career high for one game, and two were returned for touchdowns by linebacker David Bowens. Brees was sacked three times by the Browns, and the Saints were penalized seven times for 98 yards. 
Brees also was intercepted three times during a 30-20 loss at Arizona. 
Coach Sean Payton said Brees’ turnovers, as well as the lack of interceptions by New Orleans’ defense, are symptomatic of the Saints not jumping out to big leads as they often did last season. 
“Certainly your chances of turning the ball over from an interception go up if you’re playing come -from-behind football,” Payton said, pointing out that teams are often forced to throw more when trailing. “It gets back to being in a position where you’re playing with a lead, playing with balance. As soon as you become one-dimensional, it becomes more difficult.” 
At the same time, Payton said, opposing offenses have had an easier time calling conservative plays and pro­tecting the football, limiting takeaways by a Saints defense that was among the best in the league in that category last season. 
“The way we practice and the effort we give, I think the turnovers will come,” Payton said of his defense. “The dif­ference this season clearly is that there haven’t been many cases ... where we’ve played with a lead of above a score compared to a year ago. When (a team has a two-score lead), the defense has more opportu­nities to rush the passer and the opposition is one-dimen­sional.” 
On paper, New Orleans’ defense appears to be one of the bright spots on the club, ranking fourth overall in yards allowed per game, compared to 25th last season. All-Pro safety Darren Sharper, who on Sunday played his first game since having offseason knee surgery, said using such stats to judge the Saints’ defense can be tricky. 
“Now we’re top-five, but we haven’t created as many turnovers as last year, so is the defense better than last year, or is the defense worse? 
“We don’t worry about stats,” Sharper continued. “Getting takeaways is what we pride ourselves on doing and that’s the biggest factor in changing the makeup of a game and whether or not you win or you lose.” 
Brees said the whole team was mindful of how hard it can be to defend a champi­onship, and how often recent NFL champions have faltered the following season, a phe­nomenon often referred to as a “Super Bowl hangover.” 
The Saints never underesti­mated how hard it would be to maintain last season’s excel­lence, Brees said, they’re sim­ply disappointed they’ve strug­gled to play well consistently through the first seven weeks. It only gets harder this week, with the Pittsburgh Steelers (5-1) visiting on Sunday night. 
“We’re never going to panic, but there’s definitely a sense of urgency,” Brees said. “We just have to really focus on the details — not letting anything slide, from being on time to meetings, from what you’re doing in the film room, what you’re doing in the weight room, what you’re doing in the training room, taking care of your body. Just don’t let a single thing slide. Make sure you’re accountable to one another. That’s what every­body’s preaching right now.” 


NFL 

Stress fracture could end consecutive games streak for Favre 
neither injury requires sur-“He’s got to be able to do all practice facility on Monday to throughout his career.” 
Associated Press 

gery. the things that his position make him more comfortable. The Vikings (2-4) are strug-
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — “He’s got great pain thresh-does,” Childress said. “You He refused to rule Favre out gling to find the groove they Brett Favre’s ironman streak old and also great competitive can’t put a guy that’s a sitting of this week’s game, which enjoyed in Favre’s first season, has endured a litany of zeal,” Childress said, succinct-duck out there. His competi-would likely mean a start by which started 6-0 and ended injuries and even a pair of ly summing up Favre’s legacy tive nature I’m sure will come Tarvaris Jackson. But he also in the NFC championship premature retirement press of durability. into it. But a lot of times insisted that the streak won’t game. With Favre’s turnover conferences. Favre is also the subject of you’ve got to protect people influence the decision on count now at 14 — including 
Perhaps this is the week an NFL investigation into alle-from themselves.” whether to play him against 10 interceptions, already three that, finally, Favre’s health gations that he sent lewd pho-Favre had arthroscopic sur-the Patriots (5-1). more than last year — he has prevents him from playing. tographs and suggestive mes-gery on the ankle in May, and “We have to do what is right been hurting them as much as 
The 41-year-old Minnesota sages to a female New York he received a series of lubri-for the Minnesota Vikings,” he’s helped them so far. quarterback has a stress frac-Jets employee in 2008, a cating injections in the joint at Childress said. “That’s what I Favre didn’t enter the locker ture in his left ankle that could development that first put his the beginning of the season. get charged with at the end of room at Winter Park when it end his NFL-record streak at streak in danger with the pos-The ankle has bothered him at the day. I’m not worried about was open to reporters on 291 consecutive games started sibility of a suspension under times this fall, but he hurt it in someone getting one more Monday, but after the game he 
— 315 including the playoffs. the league’s personal conduct Sunday’s 28-24 loss at Green start or one more yard to said he wouldn’t put his 
Vikings coach Brad Childress policy. NFL spokesman Greg Bay as he was being tackled equal 300.” record ahead of common said Monday an MRI on Aiello said Monday there was from behind while throwing His teammates will have to sense. Favre’s foot revealed the nothing to report about the his first of three interceptions believe it when they see it. “If I can play but not be stress fracture as well as an investigation. against the Packers. “Unless they cut his leg off, effective, then it’s not worth “avulsion” fracture in the heel For this week, it appears Favre was limping around it’s going to be hard to keep playing,” Favre said. “I hope I bone. An avulsion fracture Favre’s biggest problem will during the game and walking him off the field,” defensive use good judgment, so we’ll occurs when a fragment of be figuring out a way to heal gingerly afterward, and tackle Kevin Williams said. see. I’m no spring chicken bone is torn away by a tendon fast enough to face New Childress said he was wearing “That’s the type of guy he is, anymore. I don’t heal as or ligament. Childress said England on Sunday. a walking boot around the from what he’s shown quickly.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

House for sale on Angela. Summer Heights High Jonah: JA apostrophe MIE. Weird name I 2.5K sq ft home. For Cara, Katie, Tim, Meaghan: know, but you’ll get used to it. FOR SALE 4BR 3.5BA. PERSONAL ——————————————— Puck you miss. 
Furniture ?, fully redone. Mr. G: Friends don't write two text mes-Chess Lessons: USCF and FIDE $365K UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Thank God you’re here Grandma’s He’s a ranga sir! sages in an hour saying "See you in (International Chess Federation) 574-232-2211 Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has been raped. English!" "Save me a seat" Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess many resources in place to assist Have you got your period or what Champion and coach of 1997/8 K-8 you. This is G time not free time. miss? I love your bins they’re so random. National Championship team FOR RENT If you or someone you love needs Dennis confidential support or assistance, Celine has an oversized brain. Dicktatoriship. Wife beaters and rapists are nearly Monokroussos is offering lessons to AVAILABLE NOW please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 all public-school educated. Sorry, players of all ages and levels (local 4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. I’m Director of Performing Arts. I don’t go to Gumnut Cottage your no offense, but it’s true. and online). 1.5 miles from ND For more information, visit ND's Spread it. mum goes there. Please contact historicchess@com-website at: http://pregnancysup-I’m like the smartest non-Asian in cast.net for rates and information. 574-876-6333 port@nd.edu. Two words: Deal with it. Ja’mie: year 11. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Rules changes have pushed the limits of scoring 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Larry Bird risked bumps, bruises and some­times worse whenever he dared to attack the rim against the “Bad Boy” Detroit Pistons or Patrick Ewing’s New York Knicks. 
He wouldn’t have had it any other way. The Boston Celtics star took his share of hits, deliv­ered a few and considered it all just part of the game. The Indiana Pacers president still loves the NBA, even though he feels it has gone a bit soft with rules changes designed to pro­mote a crowd-pleasing style that puts an emphasis on scoring. A lot. 
“Every meeting I go to, they talk about scoring,” he told The Associated Press with a chuckle. “Everything is geared toward the offense. My solution to that? Just start everybody off at 20 to 20 and play the game the way it’s supposed to be played.” 
Changes over the past decade have opened things up and it’s more like a league-wide fast break than it has been in years. Last season, teams averaged more than 100 points per game for the first time since the 1994­95 season. 
While Bird isn’t necessarily a fan, players don’t seem to mind. 
“People don’t come to see both teams score 40 points and nobody can create shots,” Pacers forward Danny Granger said. “It’s always more entertaining when people are scoring.” 
Scoring across the league dropped to 91.6 points per game in the lockout-shortened 1998-99 season, the lowest average since the shot clock was introduced in 1954. 
The NBA responded by started by limiting the hand checking allowed by defensive players, then began curtailing the use of forearms. The 3-second rule was introduced during the 2001-02 season to keep post players from camping out in the lane. 


Teams also started seeking quicker, more versatile players. In the 1980s and ‘90s, Utah’s Karl Malone was the ideal power forward: a 6-foot-9, 260-pound freight train built to handle physi­cal play. Now, many power for­wards look like Rashard Lewis: an agile 6-foot-10, 230-pounder who comfortable behind the 3­point line, yet capable of putting the ball on the floor. 
NHL 

Wilson nets first career goal in Blue Jackets win 

Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Kyle Wilson scored his first NHL goal and Mathieu Garon stopped 28 shots to lead the Columbus Blue Jackets past the Philadelphia Flyers 2-1 on Monday night. 
Wilson, playing in his fifth career game, put the Blue Jackets ahead 1-0 in the first. 


Derick Brassard converted a nice pass from Rick Nash for a 2-0 lead and Garon made the lead stand during a wild onslaught by the Flyers in the third period. 
They outshot Columbus 12-4 in the final 20 minutes, even though the Blue Jackets had three power plays. Ville Leino scored his second goal of the year for the Flyers, who have lost four of five. 
The Blue Jackets have won four of five. 
After Leino’s goal with 5:01 left, the Flyers turned up the heat. They pulled Brian Boucher, who had 23 saves, for the extra attacker with 95 seconds left. But they never really came close to getting the tying goal. 
Midway through the first peri­od, Chris Clark carried the puck down the left wing, fought off Philadelphia defenseman Chris Pronger and pivoted to get off a shot from the left dot in front of defenseman Matt Carle. Boucher made a blocker save, but the rebound came back toward Clark. At almost the same time he got to the puck, Wilson, who was crashing the net, one-timed it for the goal. 
After a penalty-free first peri­od, Columbus took advantage of the Flyers’ first trip to the box. 
With Danny Briere in for hook­ing, the Blue Jackets kept the puck in the offensive zone for a minute and a half before Nash, stationed at the right goal line, slipped a pass under a diving Kimmo Timmonen that went tape-to-tape to Brassard for the one-knee, one-timer from the left doorstep. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, October 26, 2010 
NFL 

Romo breaks collarbone 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — The Dallas Cowboys’ miserable season just got a whole lot worse: Tony Romo broke his left collarbone in the second quarter against the New York Giants on Monday night, then his teammates let a 13-point lead turn into a 38-20 deficit through three quarters. 
Eli Manning rebounded from interceptions on his first two drives to match his career best with four touchdown passes, Brandon Jacobs ran 30 yards for a touchdown and Lawrence Tynes kicked a career-best 53-yard field goal. New York had a run of 31 unanswered points from 4:22 of the second quarter through the end of the third quarter. 
The Cowboys were getting stomped despite having pried away three turnovers (includ­ing two interceptions returned inside the New York 
20) and a 93-yard punt return for a touchdown. A loss would put them off to their worst start since going 1-15 in 1989, the first year Jerry Jones owned the club. 
As if that wasn’t bad enough, the prospects for recovery aren’t very good with Romo watching the sec­ond half with his left arm in a sling. 
The injury could end his season. Recovery time is gen-erally 8 to 10 weeks. With the Cowboys at 1-4 — and headed to 1-5 — there may not be any reason to rush back. 

The play came early in the second quarter, with Romo throwing a pass to Miles Austin, then taking a hard hit from blitzing Michael Boley. The linebacker came in unblocked and running at him practically full speed. Romo landed on the shoulder and remained flat on his back until being helped by trainers. He was taken into the locker room for X-rays and replaced by backup Jon Kitna. 
Kitna hadn’t played since Oct. 5, 2008, when he was part of Detroit’s winless sea­son. Whether it was the long layoff, being 38 or both, he sure looked rusty. 
His first pass was tipped. So was his third. The next time he dropped back, he was sacked for a 10 -yard loss, forcing Dallas to punt from its 
own end zone. The Giants took advantage of the short field to score the go-ahead touchdown. His next pass was fumbled by Jason Witten, set­ting up Tynes’ long field goal. 
Dallas actually was leading 10-7 when Romo was hurt. A field goal at the end of that drive made it 13-7, then rook­ie Dez Bryant had the second-longest punt return in club history, making a nice catch on a 69-yard kick and show­ing great speed and moves to stretch the Cowboys’ lead to 20-7. 
NBA 

Miami’s ‘Big Three’ ready to go for opener 
Associated Press 

MIAMI — Before leaving for the airport Monday and catching the flight to Boston, Dwyane Wade had a conver­sation with the friend he calls Larry. 
As in, the Larry O’Brien Trophy. The one they give 
out for winning an NBA championship. 
“I asked him where he’s been,” Wade said. “He’s eluded me. He’s been miss­ing for a while.” 
Larry will be waiting for someone in June, and on Tuesday night the Miami Heat will take what they hope is their first steps toward winning him when a season of title expectations finally opens in Boston. Miami squares off against the reigning Eastern Conference champion Celtics in a matchup loaded with story lines. 
LeBron James’ opener with Miami after seven seasons in Cleveland. Wade’s first time with James and Chris Bosh as his Heat running mates. Shaquille O’Neal — once a teammate to both Wade and James — playing his first game in Celtics’ colors. Paul Pierce, Ray Allen and Kevin Garnett motivated by a Game 7 loss to the Lakers in last season’s finals. Miami’s new Big 3 vs. Boston’s not-so-new Big 3. 
Oh, and the small fact that Wade and James were both ousted from the playoffs by Boston last spring, defeats that helped along their deci­sion to play with one anoth­er. 
“I think the NBA did an unbelievable job of picking a great first game,” Wade said. 
O’Neal says he believes it’s just another game, noting that the only big games in which he’s played in are the ones where “jewelry” — a ring — is up for grabs. 
Not everyone is of that opinion. 
“Once LeBron took his tal­ents to South Beach, I think everyone got excited,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. 
The Heat practiced one last time in Miami on Monday morning, followed by coach Erik Spoelstra gathering his team in the locker room for a quick meeting. 
He didn’t have to say much. Spoelstra brought Miami’s 2006 championship trophy and reminded every­one of the season’s lone goal. 


Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish swept by LSU, Auburn at dual meet 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish fell to two elite NCAA swimming and diving squads Friday. The squad lost a double dual meet, falling to host Auburn 197-101 and to LSU 155.33-141.66. 
Irish highlights during the meet included top place finish­es by senior Samantha Maxwell in the 100-meter breaststroke and senior Katie Casey in the 200-meter butterfly. 
Senior Amywren Miller took second in the 50-meter freestyle, just 0.3 seconds behind LSU’s first-place finish­er. Senior Lauren Sylvester took silver in the 1,000-meter freestyle, as Notre Dame’s first squad also took second in the 400-meter Medley Relay. 

Going into the season, the Irish had dominated their con­ference, winning 14 consecu­tive Big East titles. Barnes said that the goal is to rank among the top 15 NCAA teams in the country and would like to see the program “be more dialed into an NCAA championship effort.” 
Although the squad wound up losing to Auburn and LSU, the close finish showed that the Irish could still compete at the highest level. 
The Irish return to action Friday when they take on Michigan State. 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 

SMC SOCCER 

Belles fall to Adrian College 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The offensive troubles con­tinued for the Belles this weekend, as Saint Mary’s fell to another MIAA opponent. 
Saint Mary’s (2-16-0, 0-7-0 MIAA) struggled to a 2-0 defeat at the hands of Adrian College. The Belles had chances throughout the game, but were unable to capitalize on their opportuni­ties. 
Saint Mary’s coach Michael Joyce said the game could have gone either way, as the squad just could not put the ball in the net. 
“It was a fairly even game,” Joyce said. “We had some great chances to score 
— the ball just didn't fall for us. We pushed hard for a goal in the second half and gambled a bit defensively, which created some great chances for us, but also gave Adrian some good looks at our goal, so it was back and forth.” 
The Bulldogs scored both of their goals in the first half. The first one came in the seventh minute off of the foot of freshman McKenzie Doda. Sophomore Patti Vaassen scored the second goal was scored in the 18th minute. 
The Belles’ last game of the season will be Wednesday at Trine College. Joyce said he 


knows how important it is to finish this season off strong 
a nd g a i n  s ome  m o m e n t u m  
g o i n g  i n t o  t h e  2 0 1 1  c a m  - 
paign.  

“We’re looking for a win against Trine, ” he said. “They are much better than they have been in the past, so we'll have to be on our game. Finishing our chances has been a challenge all sea­son, so it is something we're concentrating on this week. We’re looking at it as a setup for next year and want a positive result.” 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, October 26, 2010 
MLB 

Lincecum to start Game 1 of World Series 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Tim Lincecum is the Game 1 guy for the Giants again. 
Lincecum will start Wednesday night’s World Series opener for San Francisco against the Texas Rangers. Fellow right-hander Matt Cain will follow in Game 2 on Thursday, Giants manager Bruce Bochy said Monday. 
While the Giants considered going to Cain for the opener, Bochy said Lincecum will be well rested despite briefly pitching in relief Saturday night in the NL championship series clincher at Philadelphia. 
“We just kept things in order and let Timmy have the first one,” Bochy said before his team’s workout Monday night at AT&T Park. “Matt hasn’t pitched in a while. He didn’t have to pitch in that seventh game, so he’s ready. Jonny just threw. Matt’s one of our guys, too.” 
When the series shifts to Arlington, Jonathan Sanchez will start Game 3 on Saturday and Madison Bumgarner will be on the mound for Game 4 on Sunday. In the NLCS, Bochy broke up his righties and lefties 
— going with Lincecum, lefty Sanchez and then Cain and the left-handed Bumgarner. 
Cliff Lee starts the opener for Texas, making it a matchup of Cy Young Award winners. Lee won the 2008 AL Cy Young for Cleveland. Lincecum has won the last two NL awards. 
“We’re feeling good about it. We’ll start it out with Timmy against Cliff,” Cain said. “This is what we’ve all dreamed of doing.” 
The 26-year-old Lincecum will be the first Giants pitcher to start a World Series opener at home since Billy O’Dell lost to the Yankees’ Whitey Ford at Candlestick Park in 1962. 
Lincecum, who wasn’t avail­able for interviews until Tuesday’s workout day, has never faced Texas. 
As much as was made of Phillies star Roy Halladay in the last series, the Giants will be ready for the hype sur­rounding Lee. The lefty is 3-0 during this playoff run and 7-0 with a 1.26 ERA for his career in the postseason, covering eight starts in five series with the Phillies and Texas. 
“It was the Halladay show a week ago after he threw the no-hitter against the Reds,” Giants right fielder Cody Ross said. “We’re not surprising anybody, believe me. Everybody knows how good our pitching staff is. But I think we prefer for everyone to talk about everybody else.” 
Cain has pitched against the Rangers once, allowing one run and three hits over eight 
innings and getting a no-deci­sion in the Giants’ 2-1, 11­
inning win  on  June 20 last  
year.  
Sanchez  has  faced  the  

Rangers just once, winning with two-thirds of an inning of hitless relief on June 29, 2006, when he got Mark Teixeira to hit into a double-play grounder. Sanchez threw all of three pitches. 
Like Lincecum, Bumgarner hasn’t faced Texas. 
Even though Sanchez didn’t have his best stuff Saturday, Barry Zito isn’t expected to be added to the Series roster. The struggling $126 million lefty was left off for the first two rounds. 
“A guy will have a hiccup now and then. We’re here because of what Jonathan did down the stretch,” Bochy said. 
Center fielder Andres Torres is improving after injuring his left hip and groin area running out a bunt single and diving into the bag in the ninth inning of Game 6 against the Phillies. 
“He is doing much better,” Bochy said. “He should be good to go.” 
Torres expects to be fine by Game 1. 
“I have a little bit of soreness, but I’ll be all right,” he said after going through the work­out. “I was running to first base and I felt something there but I hope to be OK.” 
NHL 

Canadiens take down Coyotes 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL — Each member of the Montreal Canadiens’ top line scored, Carey Price made the key saves, and the Phoenix Coyotes were once again denied a win at the Bell Centre. 
Andrei Kostitsyn scored 1:25 into overtime after linemates Tomas Plekanec and Michael Cammalleri scored in regulation to give Montreal a 3-2 win over Phoenix on Monday night. 
Kostitsyn, who assisted on Plekanec’s goal in the second, put a rebound past Ilya Bryzgalov for his third goal in two games as the Canadiens improved to 5-2-1. Cammalleri also had a goal and an assist. 
“All three guys, I think, are in top shape and we feel good with each other,” Kostitsyn said. 
The line has combined to score 11 of Montreal’s 20 goals. 
“I was excited coming into this year about our line,” Cammalleri said. “I thought that as a group we played with a lot of different combinations last year, not knowing one another, and by the end of the year I felt like us three kind of settled in and found ways to complement one another. I’m a big, big believer that the longer you stay together and the more chemistry you can build the more dynamic you can be offensively. 
“I’ll reference the Sedin twins (Vancouver’s Henrik and Daniel), these guys have played every shift of their lives together and they just seem to know where each other is a second ahead of the defender and the puck ends up in the net more often than not, so that’s kind of the idea.” 




Carey Price, who has started each of the Canadiens’ games, made 27 saves for his second straight win, including his first shutout in nearly two years Saturday in a 3-0 win in Ottawa. 
Kyle Turris and Derek Morris scored for Phoenix, which opened a three-game road trip. 
Bryzgalov stopped 26 shots. 
The Coyotes have not won in Montreal since a 5-4 victory on Oct. 28, 1996. 
“Well, you know what? It’s a good rink, good fans,” said Morris, who scored on a power play 1:01 into the third to draw Phoenix even at 2. “They proba­bly have the best fans in the league. They do a real good job of creating momentum for their team. Even if the team doesn’t really have a good play they’re always oohing and ahhing on a play that’s a close play and I think that they feed off of that. The team plays really well at home and they played well tonight.” 
Price stuck out his glove to get a piece of Adrian Aucoin’s slap shot from the right faceoff circle on another Coyotes power play later in the third. 
“He was seeing pucks well, obviously,” Aucoin said. “I think on a few of our chances we screened him pretty good and he still made the save. A couple of pucks just hit him without him seeing them and that’s when you know your goalie is playing the way you want him to, he’s just in the right spot. On my chance, there was a guy diving in front of me so I’m pretty sure he knew I was going upstairs and made the right save.” 
Turris gave the Coyotes a 1-0 lead 2:49 into the second with his third goal in two games. He scored his first two goals of the season in a 4-3 overtime loss to Carolina on Saturday night. 

page 19 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 26, 2010 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish finish sixth in North Carolina 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Although the Irish didn’t emerge with a first-place finish, they turned in a solid perform­ance over the break at the Landfall Tradition on the Dye Golf Course in Wilmington, N.C. on Sunday. The Irish rose from sev­enth place on the second day of play to sixth on the final day, marking the lowest score by any team during the final round of golf. 
“Although it wasn’t our best performance, we managed to play through until the last shot,” senior So-Hyun Park said. “We beat Duke, who is ranked fourth, by twenty stokes on the final day.” 
Junior Becca Huffer led the team throughout the tournament, finishing sixth out of 90 competi­tors with a final total of 218 strokes, ending two over par. She finished with a score of 73 on the final day of play on the 54-hole course, remaining consistent with her scores of 72 and 73 strokes during the previous two days. 
Two freshmen stepped up to the plate, as Nicole Zhang and Kristina Nhim followed Huffer’s lead. Despite being sick through­out the whole weekend, Zhang finished tied for 17th with a total of 224 strokes, progressing from 75 on the first day of play to 73 and 76 the following two days respectively. Nhim tied for 26th, just two strokes behind, carding scores of 75, 77 and 74 strokes during the three-day tournament. 
Park and senior Katie Conway rounded out the scoring, finishing tied for 40th place with 230 total strokes. Park improved her game on the final day to boost the Irish, improving on her 77 stroke score from the first round to 75 on the third. Conway finished tied for 74th place with 240 strokes. 
The Irish finished with 896 total strokes, good enough for 32 over par. However, the team’s determi­nation was clear on the final round of play, as they collectively carded a score of 296, just eight strokes over par. 
“We had a team meeting the night before [the final round] just to go through our mistakes and what we needed to focus on going into the last day,” Park said. “We all seemed to have troubles around the greens, so we talked about how to place ourselves bet­ter on the greens and to be espe­cially careful with the green speed.” 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles set new personal records 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 

The Belles set 12 new per­sonal records for a close second-place finish at the Manchester Invitational on Oct. 16. The squad was nar­rowly defeated by host Manchester College, which finished with 38 points to the Belles’ 45. 
“I was very pleased with the team’s performance at Manchester,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. “I would put this as one of our best races so far — based on pure performance.” 
Bauters was especially impressed with the Belles’ 
top eight run­ners. 
“We did a much better job of pack ­ing up in small groups this week and finishing t o g e t h e r, ” Bauters said. “I’d still like to see our top-five spread decrease, but 

“I was very pleased with the team’s performance at Manchester.” 
Jackie Bauters Belles coach 
our six through eight were right there which could be key at Championships.” 
Julia Kenney finished third overall with 23:09, followed 
c l o s e l y  b y  
J  o a  n  n  e  
A l m o n d ,  w h o  

finished sixth at 23:34. Kenney and Almond were joined in the top 10 by Emma Baker and Catie Salyer. Baker finished ninth with a time of 
24:08, and 

a time of Meredith Cors placed sec­
“I think it would have been nice to have a few more teams show up to create a more competitive feld and possibly even better times.” 
Jackie Bauters Belles coach 
ond with a time of 23:05. Manchester had two more run ­ners in the top five, as well as run­ners finish­ing 12th and 15th to help secure the win. 
“It would have been 

Salyer earned 10th with a time of 24:09. 
“Our top four all had solid races, but I was particularly 
impressed with Julia and Catie ’s per ­formances, ” Bauters said. “Catie, Emma and [senior Samantha Wassel] have been working together all season, and Catie has done a remarkable job helping to 
lead that trio.” 

Grace College’s Marijean Wegert finished first at 22:43, while Manchester’s great to get the win over Manchester, but their top three were just too close for us unfortunately,” Bauters said. 
Bauters also would have liked to see a little more competition in the nine ­school meet. 
“The field was a little smaller than in recent years, ” Bauters said. “I think it would have been nice to have a few more teams show up to create a more competitive field and possibly even better times.” 
The Belles will next run at the MIAA Championships, hosted by Calvin College, on Saturday. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 20 
Clark 
continued from page 24 
fun. They are a good group of guys. I was pleased with the trip.” 
Neither team was able to score in the first half when the Irish took on the Cardinals, but freshman midfielder Dylan Mares was able to put the ball past Irish fifth-year goalkeeper Phil Tuttle in the 55th minute off an assist from junior midfielder Nick DeLeon. The Irish threatened, but were unable to score, and Louisville sealed the game in the 84th minute on a DeLeon goal from 25 yards away. 
“The Louisville game was a hard start,” Clark said. “They were good, especially on that night, and they were ready for us. The crowd there was great, and we struggled in the first half. In the second half I thought we were going to tie it up, but their second goal ended the game. It was a tough place to start, but I thought we handled it well moving for­ward.” 
Three separate goal scorers led the Irish to victory over Seton Hall three days later. Senior forward Steven Perry started the action, scoring off of an assist from fresh­man forward Harrison Shipp, who picked up another helper later in the game, giving him a team-high six assists on the season. Junior midfielders Michael Rose and Brendan King sealed the game early in the second half, each scoring in the first 14 minutes after the break. 
“The team played very well against Seton Hall,” Clark said. “They did a lot of good things, and they were able to get a nice result. It was nice to see Rose and King getting goals, and Shipp continues to get assists for us, which is really impressive from a freshman.” 
The final contest of the break was the most closely contested. In a match that saw 34 total shots on goal, the Irish were able to pull out a draw against Connecticut. Both teams had excellent opportu­nities to score, and Clark thought that his team was the better one despite the tie, especially late in the game. 
“We started the Connecticut game well, but we lost our grip for about the last 20 minutes of the first half,” Clark said. “I thought we edged them in the second half, and we certainly played better in overtime, but we just couldn’t get one in the net.” 
Overall, Clark was pleased by his team’s performance and in particular the attitude of the reserves who made the trip, along with the rest of the Irish squad. 
“We had some good team per­formances overall,” Clark said. “There were positives in all the games. We brought the entire team along, and the backup squad had a fabulous attitude. They compete every day at practice, and they were fabulous on the road. I have to give them a big pat on the back for that. It was a great bonding experience.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles compete in frst MIAA meet of season 
Boston 
continued from page 24 

Boston University a season after the Terriers raised the trophy. 
Senior right wing Calle Ridderwall scored both goals Saturday. Notre Dame over­came a 1-0 first period deficit to earn their first win over a top-ranked team since 2008, when the Irish beat then-No. 1 Michigan in overtime in the national semifinals. Ridderwall also scored the game-winner in the victory over the Wolverines. 
“He’s a goal scorer, and that’s where he’s got to elevate and show that he can score when it matters the most,” Jackson said. “He’s had a history of playing well in some of those situations.” 
In net, sophomore Mike Johnson stopped 28 of 29 Eagle shots, including 18 over the final two periods to hold the high-powered Boston College offense to just one goal. 
“[Johnson] played outstand­ing,” Jackson said. “If he found a way to bring that level of play on a nightly basis, he could be one of the best goalies in col­lege hockey. The key is consis­tency.” 
The Eagles got on the board first with a power-play goal from senior Brian Gibbons. With just 10 seconds left on a penalty to sophomore Nick Larson, Boston College’s Joe Whitney fired a shot from the point that Gibbons redirected past Johnson to give his team a 1-0 lead at 19:13 of the first period. 
“I think our guys were ready to go,” Jackson said. “I think 
B.C. is just a tremendously tal­ented team, and I think it took us half a period at least, maybe a little longer, to adjust to their speed.” 
The Irish rallied back in the second period, and broke through on Ridderwall’s first goal at 6:44 of the stanza. Freshman T.J. Tynan forced a turnover deep in the Eagles’ zone and found Ridderwall in the slot, where the senior fired a wrister into an open net to even up the score. 
Later in the period, Ridderwall again found himself in the right place at the right time. With Notre Dame on a 5­on-3 advantage, senior Ryan Guentzel moved the puck to Ridderwall, who drilled a shot past Boston College goalie John Muse for his fourth goal of the year. Guentzel earned his team-leading seventh assist of the season on the goal. 
“I thought [Ridderwall] played a great game,” Jackson said. “It wasn’t just the fact that he scored two goals. I thought he did a great job on our penalty kill. He was real solid at the end of the game when they pulled their goalie.” 
From that point, it was up to Johnson and the Irish defense to shut the door. Notre Dame held Boston College to just five shots in the final period, includ­ing only one on three Eagle power-play attempts. 
“It wasn’t a matter of sitting 

By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Belles return from Fall Break having competed in their first league meet of the year, the MIAA Relays, hosted by Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich. on Saturday. While the races were not scored, they served as an important precursor to the upcoming season. 
New head coach Mark Benishek may have benefited the most from the preview, as he said he is still learning about the competition in the MIAA. 
“I’ m new to our confer ­ence,” Benishek said. “There seems to be some stronger schools. Calvin, Hope and Kalamazoo seem to be the bigger schools.” 
Despite facing these chal­lenges, Benishek thought his team raced well overall. 
“They had some strong swims,” Benishek said. 
One such strong swim came from the 3X500 freestyle relay team of sophomore Liz Palmer and juniors Audrey Dalrymple and Megan Price. The trio recorded the best finish for Saint Mary’s, finish­ing fifth overall with a time of 17:15.15. 
Benishek said an intense training week that may have worn down his swimmers meant expectations were lower going into Saturday’s meet. 
“Coming off this break week we had some pretty hard training,” Benishek said. “The bar wasn’t set too high.” 
In addition, Benishek said the meet was run quickly, without much break between events. 
“It was a fast meet and there wasn’t as much time between relays,” Benishek said. “I just wanted to see how they did. Some of them surprised me.” 
As the regular season gets under way, Benishek will be looking for more of these sur­prises as the Belles look to improve upon last year’s sev­enth-place finish in the con­ference. One reason for improvement this year may lie in an improved team chemistry that Benishek says has been a focal point as the Belles adjust to new leader­ship. 
“The adjustments [have] been good,” Benishek said. “The feedback I got earlier this year to develop more of a team atmosphere — we did a high ropes course which everyone thought was great.” 
Benishek says this team bond will aid the team mov­ing forward as they face MIAA competition. 
“It absolutely helps, having that competitive edge, ” Benishek said of his squad’s unity. “There is a good rela­tionship between our upper­classmen and our new, incoming freshmen and transfers.” 
Saint Mary’s begins the dual meet portion of their sched­ule next Friday against Kalamazoo at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The races begin at 7 p.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
on that lead, it was a matter of continuing to play our game, but maybe with a little more discipline,” Jackson said. 
Johnson improved his record to a perfect 4-0-0 on the sea­son, with a 2.00 goals against average and a .933 save per­centage. 
“The key thing is that to be a great goalie, you’ve got to be kind of like a closer in base­ball,” Jackson said. “You’ve got to finish the game. That means sometimes you stand on your head and make a great save to take the game home and he did that on Saturday.” 
The Irish play five of their next six games away from the Joyce Center, with a home-and­home series against Western Michigan next weekend fol­lowed by road trips to Bowling Green and Michigan. 
“It’s not just a matter of win­ning one big game,” Jackson said. “You’ve got to take care of business during the season. If you just focus on the successes against good teams, it doesn’t have that much value if you turn around and don’t play well the rest of the time.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Notre Dame takes seventh 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish took part in the Pre-National Meet Saturday in Terre Haute, Ind., competing against 19 of the top 30 teams in the country. The Notre Dame men took sev­enth place, while the women took 23rd in an invitational that served as a preview for the National Championships coming up next month. 
“At the beginning of the season we were not ranked at all by the NCAA — no one thought we would have any sort of presence on the cross country course,” sen­ior Dan Jackson said. 
Since their first meet, the Irish have turned that perception around. Coming in first for the men was Jackson, who finished the eight-kilometer race 19th overall in 24:11.3. 
“I was moderately pleased with my finish,” Jackson said. “The Pre-National race is one of the most competitive races in the entire country, and to finish inside the top 20 while still training hard in the weeks leading up to the race makes me confident that I can race better once I ease off my training and let my body recover.” 
Following Jackson were Notre Dame juniors Jordan Carlson, who took 31st in 24:19.1, and Johnathan Shawel, who took 55th in 24:39.9. Sophomore Jeremy Rae finished 59th in 24:39.9. 
“One of our biggest strengths as a team this year has been the small spread we have between our second to fifth guy,” Carlson said. “We feed off each other and work together as a group as much as we can and for as long as we can during the race. Sometimes it’s just whoever is feeling better that day.” 

Completing the team finishes were freshmen Martin Grady at 61st in 24:40.7, senior Mat Abernethy at 121st in 25:16.0 and freshman Walter Schafer in 156th place in 25:39.4 
“Seventh place is pretty good considering the number of ranked reams that were at the meet, but we know we have a lot left in the tank and have the potential to perform much better than we did,” Carlson said. “We are defi­nitely going to surprise some peo­ple at the Big East next week­end.” 
For the women, senior Erica Watson took 64th place overall, finishing the six-kilometer race in 
21:23.1 Freshman Meg Ryan turned in a time of 21:38.5, good enough for 92nd place. 
Following Watson came three close finishes for the Irish, with freshman Kelly Curran finishing 120th in 21:51.9, sophomore Rebecca Tracy at 132nd in 
21:55.8 and junior Rachel Velarde at 139th in 21:58.9. Juniors Molly Hirt and Susanna Sullivan round­ed out the squad’s finish, taking 178th in 22:23.4 and 211th in 
22:49.2 respectively. 
Both teams compete next Saturday at the Big East Championships in Syracuse, N.Y. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish split dual meets, move to 2-1 on season 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame split a pair of dual meets Saturday as it defeated Oakland University 166-132, but fell to Michigan by a count of 172-120. The Irish move to 2-1 on the season. 
The Irish received some key contributions from freshmen, as Frank Dyer came in second in the 200-and 500-meter freestyle and Joshua Choi came in second in the 200 breast­stroke. Senior captain Michael Sullivan said freshmen contri­butions will be critical to the team’s success. 
“Seeing freshmen contribute is always exciting, especially as an upperclassman,” he said. “Having been on the team for a few years, it is no secret that freshmen need to contribute in order to have a successful year.” 
Senior Eric Lex also stood out at the 1-meter and 3-meter boards at Saturday’s meet. Lex was one of five Irish divers to finish in the top six in the 1­meter event by compiling 
336.60 points. Sullivan said for the team as a whole to have success in meets, the squad needs solid contributions from the diving team. 
“Eric and the other divers are guys that we love having on our team,” Sullivan said. “They are awesome at what they do and make up some of the best divers not only in the Big East, but in the country. Having them on our side is awesome because you know they are going to consis­tently place high in every meet.” 
Sullivan himself came in sec­ond in the 200 backstroke and the 200 individual medley. He credited his strong performance to better preparation. 
“In my events, I just focused on going out and swimming my own race from the start,” Sullivan said. “With a hard week of training under my belt, I knew I was prepared and just had to do what I was used to.” 
Sullivan said that there are a lot of aspects of the meet that the team can build upon. 
“As for our team, I think we did a good job of rebounding from a slower start to the meet,” he said. “The first few events were tough, and Oakland and Michigan were pretty deep in them. But we made some improvements throughout the second half of the meet and ended up with some solid swims from a lot of different guys.” 
Notre Dame’s next meet is on Nov. 6 at home against Purdue. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, October 26, 2010 
Golden Eagles. Despite the loss, Brown was 
Broncos 


continued from page 24 
to take on the Broncos (18-6, 8-2 MAC). The Irish fell 3-1 (25-19, 21-25, 25-23, 25-18), as junior libero Frenchie Silva had a career-high 29 digs in the defeat. 
Although the contest against Western Michigan was a non-conference game, Brown stressed that the Irish did not look past their oppo­nent. Instead, she pointed to the lack of execution as a rea­son for the loss. 
“Western was a good team, we knew that going in to the game,” Brown said. “We just didn’t play well against a solid MAC opponent.” 
After the setback against Western Michigan, Notre Dame rebounded strongly against Big East opponent Syracuse (21-5, 3-5 Big East). The Irish won in straight sets 3-0 (25 -16, 25 -10, 25 -17) after hitting at a strong .330 clip for the contest. 
The team finished their fall break action with a home match against Marquette (15­7, 6-2 Big East) on Sunday afternoon. After jumping out to an early 2-1 lead, the Irish would eventually fall 3-2 (16­25, 26-24, 25-22, 15-8) to the pleased with her team’s per­formance against Marquette. 
“This was an example of two evenly matched teams playing a good level of volley­ball,” she said. “We played great volleyball and really succeeded on the things we had focused on in practice.” 
After struggling to get off to a good start early in games, Brown said hitting the court strong from the opening serve against Syracuse and Marquette was a top priority. 
“We focused in practice on having a stronger sense of urgency from the beginning, and I am proud of how the team responded,” Brown said. 
With three conference loss­es, the Irish have now begun to shift their season goals. 
“We certainly wanted to win the Big East regular season — we may have too many losses to achieve this goal,” Brown said. “However, this doesn’t change the fact that we still want to finish strong and earn a high seed for the con­ference tournament.” 
The Irish continue their season this Saturday at Purcell Pavilion against St. John’s. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
Waldrum 
continued from page 24 
Irish their second tie of the season. 
“[Sunday] honestly was a great game,” Waldrum said. “Georgetown is very good. They’re a very good attacking team, and it was probably from a spectator’s point of view a great game to watch. Both teams had great chances. [Senior goalkeeper] Nikki Weiss was outstanding in goal for us.” 
Having clinched a bye to the quarterfinals of the Big East Championships, the Irish will take on the winner of a Thursday matchup between Connecticut and Louisville Sunday at Alumni Stadium. The Huskies were the only other team to hand the Irish a tie this season. 
“Selfishly in a lot of ways I’d kind of like to get UConn since we tied them a couple of weeks ago,” Waldrum said. “Whichever one we get, we know we’re going to get a good team in here. We’ll probably give the players that have played a lot of minutes a day or two off in the early part of the week.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Bayliss 
continued from page 24 
back to school or turn profes­sional, so that puts his win in perspective.” Watt took on Matt Allare of Ohio State in the semifinals, but was unable to advance after falling to Allare in straight sets 6-3, 6­4. 
Three Irish doubles teams also made it to the quarterfinals of the tournament before losing tough matches. The team of senior captain Tyler Davis and senior Stephen Havens was met with success before falling to Devin McCarthy and Balazs Novak of Ohio State 8-6 in the quarterfinals. 
Watt and senior David Anderson made up the second doubles team, advancing to the quarterfinals before losing to Allare and Peter Kobelt of Ohio State. 
“I was very encouraged at our doubles play,” Bayliss said. “Tyler Davis and Stephen Havens have been very good all fall, so their play came as no surprise to me. Spencer Tamadge and Niall Fitzgerald have talented hands and have become a pretty good team … We have shown that we are able to play with anyone, but we need to find a way to close the door better in doubles when we get a lead.” 
Another standout match for the weekend was a contest between senior Dan Stahl and Michigan’s Evan King. Stahl fell to King in a tough three-setter, 1-6, 7-6 (7), 4-6. 
“The Stahl-King match was played at a very high level,” Bayliss said. “Dan tried to take away King’s time by playing pretty far up in the court and it worked, but most impressive was his discipline and ability to stay in concrete patterns throughout the match, forcing King to blink first much of the time. He showed great poise much of the match and forced King to break the pattern first.” 
The Irish will take this week­end off before rounding out their fall schedule at the Alabama Invitational beginning Nov. 5. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, October 26, 2010 page 24 
HOCKEY 

Clipped wings 
Notre Dame tops No. 1 Boston College 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame took down the defending national champions for a third straight season Saturday, handing No. 1 Boston College a 2-1 loss in front of a sellout crowd at the Joyce Center. 
“We played a great team and we held our own,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “I thought we played well as the game pro­gressed and it wasn’t like a free­bie — we had to earn that one. I’m sure that they’re feeling bet­ter about themselves knowing that they could play with a team of that caliber.” 
The No. 17 Irish (4-1-0, 2-0-0 CCHA) hadn’t beaten the Eagles since 2008 — the last time Boston College was defending a national championship. Last 

year,  Notre  Dame  downed  
YUE WU/The Observer  
see BOSTON/page 20  Irish senior left wing Calle Ridderwall skates during Notre Dame’s victory over Lake Superior State Oct. 14. Ridderwall had two goals in the Notre Dame’s 2-1 win over Boston College Saturday.  


MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish host Midwest Regional 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hosted the ITA Midwest Regional Tournament, showing once again that the team has the potential to follow up on last season’s success. 
Junior Casey Watt was one of many Irish standouts this week­end, as he reached the semifi­nals of the tournament after defeating No. 1 seed Case Buchanan of Ohio State 7-6, 6­
2. 
“Watt’s upset over Chase Buchanan had national implica­tions,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Buchanan is a former winner of the U.S. National Juniors and the U.S. Open Juniors, and much of the summer speculation was over whether or not he would come 
see BAYLISS/page 22 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Undefeated Big East season ends with win over Villanova 
the season with a 1-1 draw at really well, we just didn’t fin-the right time of the season. were thwarted by a Camille
By CHRIS MASOUD 

Georgetown on Sunday. ish enough of our chances,” “She’s been playing really Trujillo goal with 4:09 
Sports Writer 

Freshman forward Adriana Waldrum said. “We weren’t well lately,” Waldrum said. remaining in the second half 
Leon ’s goal in the 23rd really in much danger. They “She’s all over the place up that tied the game 1-1. 
The Irish wrapped up con-minute proved to be the game didn’t cause us much prob-front. She’s creating havoc for Henderson got the Irish on ference play this weekend winner on Friday, as the No. lems offensively.” the team almost every time the board first with her con-with a regular season cham-4/5 Irish (15-1-2, 9-0-2 Big Leon has quietly emerged she gets the ball. It was good ference -leading 14th goal pionship after remaining East) kept the Wildcats (7-12-as a consistent contributor for her to get the game-win-after earning a penalty kick unbeaten through 11 contests 0, 2-9-0) in check while bat-and a nice complement to ner on Friday. I just think on a nifty move at the top of 
— just another typical season tling the adverse weather junior forward Melissa she’s going to continue get-the box. Waldrum credited for Irish coach Randy conditions. Henderson. Although Leon’s ting better and better.” the Hoyas (13-5-1, 7-3-1) for Waldrum. Notre Dame earned “Friday was one of those score on Friday was her first The Irish took the pitch on battling back and handing the a 1-0 victory over Villanova games against Villanova of the season, Waldrum said Sunday looking for their 10th on Friday before concluding where I thought we played the freshman is peaking at Big East win of the season but see WALDRUM/page 22 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame beats Seton Hall 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
In a week filled with difficult competition, the Irish achieved moderate success on the field while improving off the field as well. 
Notre Dame (7-4-4, 4-2-1 Big East) began the week losing to No. 2 Louisville (12-0-2, 7-0-0) 2-1 before traveling to South Orange, N.J., where it defeated Seton Hall (3-11-1, 1-6-0) 3-1. The Irish capped off the week against No. 5 Connecticut (10-1-4, 4-0-3), fight­ing the Huskies to a 0-0 draw in overtime. 
“It was a great eight days together,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “We drove lots of miles, so we were road warriors, but it was 
see CLARK/page 20 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Sciacca records 1,000th career kill over break 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 

The Irish experienced both highs and lows during their four games over Fall Break, splitting a quartet of games. 
Notre Dame (13-9, 6-3 Big East) played its first match of the break against DePaul (4-20, 1-8 Big East) on Oct. 15th, as the squad defeated the Blue Demons 3-1 (18-25, 25-23, 25-20, 25-18). Kelly Sciacca notched her 1,000th career kill during the victo­ry, along with seven blocks. Sciacca became only the 19th player in program his­tory to reach the milestone. 
The Irish were without star outside hitter Kristen Dealy for the contest. Irish coach Debbie Brown said Notre Dame was able to try new packages and integrate new players into its game plan as a result of Dealy’s absence. 
“With Kristen out, we got a look at some new people,” Brown said. “[Freshman middle blocker] Sam Brown played well, and [freshman outside hitter] Nicole Smith got some really good experi­ence. It was an invaluable experience for both of them.” 
The Irish then traveled to Western Michigan on Oct. 19 
see BRONCOS/page 22 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Tuesday, October 26, 2010 observer Navy 35, Notre Dame 17 
Teich me how to Navy 
Navy gashes Irish for 373 rushing yards, including 210 from fullback Teich 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — When Notre Dame marched 71 yards down the field on its open­ing possession Saturday, the Irish sideline simply wished it had been a 72-yard drive. 
Irish junior quarterback Dayne Crist could not gain the last yard of the drive, as the Midshipmen stopped his fourth-down dive inside the one-yard line to prevent Notre Dame from scoring first during Navy’s 35-17 victory. 
“We outman them by 70 pounds on average up front,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said dur­ing his postgame press confer­ence. “If you can’t get a foot on the one-half yard line, you get what you deserve. 
“If you can’t punch it in to start the game from the foot-line with the big guys we have up front and a 230-pound quarter­back, that says something right there.” 
Navy took that opportunity to cover 99 yards in only six plays. Midshipmen fullback Alexander Teich accounted for 90 of those yards, 59 rushing and the remaining 31 on a touchdown pass from quarterback Ricky Dobbs. Teich ended the day with 210 rushing yards on only 26 carries and 31 receiving yards. 

“We knew they were going to run the ball,” Irish sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o said. “We knew they were going to hand it some wrinkles because they’re a to the fullback. We just needed good football team.” to execute.” Kelly said Navy’s aptitude at 
Te’o led the Irish in tackling adjustments proved to be a with 13 tackles, including one deciding factor Saturday. for a loss. Many of Te’o’s tackles “Navy is well-schooled at all 
came on plays  variations, and  
when Teich ran  they needed to  
up the middle, a maneuver not  “We knew they were  be credited for their execution  
often seen in Navy’s version of the triple-option offense.  going to run the ball. We knew they were going to hand it to the  today on a scheme that they haven’t run,” he said.  
M i d s h i p m e n coach Ken N i u m a t a l o l o  fullback. We just needed to execute.”  “My off Ken  hat goes to coach and his  
and  his  staff  staff.  We had  
altered  that  Manti Te’o  no answer for  
triple-option for the Irish,  sophomore linebacker  them today.” Nonetheless,  
e m p h a s i z i n g  Kelly said Notre  

the inside running game more Dame should have been able to than usual, while not forgetting overcome any scheme with sim-about the outside pitch. ple strength. 
“We always have new wrin-“You still have to get over the kles,” Niumatalolo said. “We do one-on-one matchups. You still the same thing over and over have to win some of those ... but there is subtle stuff. That is Scheme is one thing, but you still what we are, an option team. have to win one-on-one Yes, we run the triple but we matchups. You get what you have a ton of different variations deserve. We got beat today. Navy on running it. We had to have was the better football team today.” 

The Midshipmen scheme car­ried them to a 14-3 lead early in the second quarter, after Irish senior kicker David Ruffer con­verted a 45-yard field goal on Notre Dame’s second possession. Crist then led the Irish offense 72 yards on 13 plays — the final play a 16-yard touchdown pass to freshman receiver TJ Jones in which Jones broke two tackles to reach the endzone — to bring Notre Dame within four points. 
“I was hoping that [score] would be a game-changer in a sense,” Jones said. “That we could get up and come back and win it.” 
Crist’s touchdown pass was offset a few minutes later when he threw the first of his two interceptions with less than two minutes left in the first half. Navy only had to drive 30 yards to make the score 21-10 at half­time. 
“I guess just trying to do too much,” Crist said of his two turnovers. “At the end of the day, it falls on me. I can’t get those back. You can’t give the ball back to Navy,a team that really shortens the game. Knowing that we needed to score on every possession, that falls on me.” 
Navy received the opening kickoff in the second half, and proceeded to increase its lead to 28-10 on another Dobbs touch­down run. Dobbs added one more touchdown — to bring his total for the day to three rushing and one passing touchdown — before the end of the third quar­ter to set Notre Dame back by 25 points. 
“They put 14 points on the board in the third quarter, which put us in a tough position,” Kelly said. “There’s going to be enough criticism for the coaches and players to go around.” 
With 10 minutes left in the fourth quarter, Kelly sent fresh­man quarterback Tommy Rees out under center, electing to keep Crist on the sideline in the blowout. Rees led the Irish on a 76-yard scoring drive, capped by a one-yard run from sophomore running back Cierre Wood. 
Crist was not alone on the sideline, as junior tight end Kyle Rudolph, junior receiver Michael Floyd and sophomore receiver Theo Riddick did not play a sin­gle snap. Rudolph is out for the season after undergoing season-ending surgery on his hamstring nearly two weeks ago. Concerning Floyd, though, Kelly decided minutes before kickoff to only use Notre Dame’s leading receiver in an “emergency situa­tion.” 
“He didn’t practice very much at all this week, and we weren’t going to play a guy who wasn’t 100 percent,” Kelly said. “He wasn’t 100 percent.” 
Even without the trio that accounted for 66.3 percent of Notre Dame’s receptions this season, Kelly said any failings Saturday were not a result of a negative attitude from the Irish. 
“I didn’t sense at any point that our guys were not emotion­ally or enthusiastic or flat,” he said. “Last year [this team] lost to Navy, and then lost the rest. That means this football team broke apart. We aren’t going to let this team break apart.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Alexander Teich 367 yards rushing Dayne Crist’s rush for no gain on 
“If you can’t get a foot on the one-
Midshipmen fullback fourth-and-goal on the one yard line 
half yard line, you get what you
367 of Navy’s 438 total yards came deserve.” 
Teich dominated the Irish defense all on the ground, as the Midshipmen Crist’s inability to get into the end game long, gashing Notre Dame for averaged 6.1 yards per carry and zone on the first drive of the game Brian Kelly241 total yards on only 27 touches. scored four rushing touchdowns. cost the Irish all signs of momentum Irish coach 



page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 26, 2010 
report card 
C­B 
D D C­D­B F 

quarterbacks: Dayne Crist couldn’t get into the end zone when he needed to on the first possession, and then he simply tried to do too much the rest of the way, throwing two interceptions. 
running backs: As usual, Notre Dame did not run the ball much, even though Armando Allen averaged 6 yards per carry, but Allen and Cierre Wood only got the ball 19 times combined. 
receivers: Theo Riddick and Michael Floyd were on the sidelines Saturday, but TJ Jones, Duval Kamara and company dropped passes and ran sloppy routes, fail­ing to give Crist much help. 
offensive line: Crist was only sacked once, but the bigger failing by the line­men was their inability to garner a push against the Midshipmen, specifi­cally on the opening possession. 
defensive line: Much like the offensive line, the defensive line did not win the battle on the line of scrimmage at any point during the game. Without that push, the Irish didn’t stand a chance. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o managed 13 tack­les, but no other starting linebacker man­aged more than five. Thus, the Midshipmen routinely ran their way into the Notre Dame secondary. 
defensive backs: Ricky Dobbs only 
dropped back to pass three times. 
Those three attempts yielded 71 yards, 
one touchdown and a pass interference 
penalty against Harrison Smith. 
special teams: The special teams were 
largely irrelevant Saturday, but David 
Ruffer did convert a 45-yard field goal, 
and Bennett Jackson tallied 123 yards on 
six returns. 

coaching: As Brian Kelly said after the game: “Defensively we didn’t have a great answer today ... My [staff] didn’t have the plan today.” 
1.56 

overall: From the end of the first possession, to the final few plays, Navy outplayed Notre Dame in every individual aspect of the game. 
adding up the numbers 
Irish kicker David Ruffer has now converted 18 straight field goals, the longest streak in 
18 

school history, and the longest in the country. 
12 
Navy has now scored a touchdown on 12 consecu­tive trips into the red zone, after scoring on its four trips inside the 20-yard line Saturday. 
Only one penalty was called Saturday, a 15­yard pass interference called against Irish 
15 

safety Harrison Smith in the second quarter. 
Notre Dame has punted a total of four times in its last six meetings with the Midshipmen. The Irish only called on Ben Turk once this Saturday, a 43-yarder. 
Notre Dame only converted 50 percent of its third downs (6-for-12). 
50 

12 
Notre Dame has now lost to Navy 12 times in history, as the Irish hold the series advantage at 71-12-1. 
Michael Floyd, Theo Riddick and Kyle Rudolph, who accounted for 67.7 percent of 
67.7 

Notre Dame’s receiving yards this season, remained on the sideline Saturday injured. 
4:06 
In the third quarter, Notre Dame only held the ball for 4:06, while Navy used its 10:54 to score two touchdowns. 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — After a performance as abysmal as the one the Irish turned in Saturday, there is an incredible amount of criticism directed at, and blame to be shared among, both players and coaches. 
You can point to any number of missed blocks, dropped balls, errant throws and whiffed tack­les that con­tributed to Navy’s thrashing of Notre Dame. The offense’s contin­ued refusal to run the ball and 

Matt Gamber 
the defense’s game plan — whatever it was Sports Writer 
— were equally as maddening. 
We could continue like this, breaking down the beat down ad nauseam, but I’m not convinced it would get us any­where. Can we define whether this loss was the fault of the coaches or the players? Can we pinpoint one adjust­ment or one play that, if made, would have meant an Irish victory? 
Navy so thoroughly dominated this game that I believe the answer is no, we can’t. I certainly recognize there were some key plays — the failed 4th­and-goal from the 1, Navy’s screen-pass touchdown, the two Irish inter­ceptions — and critical adjustments — to stop Navy’s fullback dive, to run the football with Notre Dame’s three best pass-catchers out — that simply weren’t made. 
On the surface, it would seem the plays are the players’ fault, and the adjustments are the coaches’ fault. They are so connected, however, that there’s no way around the fact that this was a total team failure. 
The 4th-and-goal play, for example, would have worked if the offensive line fired off and blew the defense off the ball — but would a hand-off to Armando Allen or a play-action pass have been a better bet? Similarly, per­haps the defense would have stopped Navy’s inside run if the coaches would have called for the safeties to crowd the line of scrimmage — but if the Irish defensive linemen and lineback­ers would have played their keys and beat their blocks, would the original scheme have worked? 

Regardless of to whom you attribute Saturday’s debacle, at the root of Notre Dame’s biggest issues is the fact that the Irish consistently fail to win the battle at the line of scrimmage on both sides of the ball. 
To me, one of Kelly’s postgame quotes said it all: “We outman them by 70 pounds on average up front. If you can’t get a foot on the one-half yard line, you get what you deserve.” 
No matter the scheme, to win games, you need to win individual plays. To win those plays, your players need to beat the man, and sometimes men, in front of them. These matchups are most critical up front, as we saw yet again on Saturday. On offense, if you lose up front, there’s nowhere for your running back to run, or your quarterback gets hurried, sacked or has his pass deflected. Losing that same battle defensively not only gives the offense room to run or time to throw, but also creates a mess of bod­ies that limits the angles your line­backers can take to see, and then tackle, the ball carrier. 
That’s exactly what happened Saturday. In truth, it’s happened far too often over the past several years, and it’s a major reason the Irish have a new coaching staff in place. And while it’s the staff’s job to prepare their guys to win those battles, through weight training and on-field repetition, at some point, the players have to go play. 
Now, there are ways coaches can try to scheme around matchups their players can’t or won’t win, and it’s the staff’s job to understand where those mismatches are. But could the staff have expected that its players, arguably more physically gifted with size and speed at nearly every posi­tion, could have lost such an over­whelming number of those matchups? 
I’m not sure, but if you’d have asked me for mismatches going into the game, I would have offered several in Notre Dame’s favor, and none for Navy. So what was there to scheme around? 
You’d be hard-pressed to find a good, let alone championship-caliber, team that can scheme around an inability to win the battles up front. You might win a game or two with a trick play or by catching an opponent off guard, but at some point, you’ve got to play the game of football, and that means beating teams at the point of attack. It’s why Notre Dame fired a coach who talked “schematic advan­tage” and hired one who wants “tough gentlemen.” 
That doesn’t mean teams can’t win championships by favoring the pass or by spreading out the defense — those systems still demand the big guys do their jobs. It’s just a different job. 
Kelly’s No. 1 task as the Irish coach is to find guys who will win those matchups up front especially in critical situations — near the goal line and on 3rd-and 4th-downs. I’m not sure how he does it, and it’ll probably take a mix of approaches that include weight training, motivation, repetition and recruiting. 
In any case, it’s not an overnight fix 
— again, that’s why Notre Dame hired Kelly. Now it’s time for him, along with his players and coaches, to go to work. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Irish lose battle in the trenches 
Tuesday, October 26, 2010 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Injuries slow but don’t stop Irish 

TOM LA/The Observer 

Senior receiver Duval Kamara skies for a pass from junior quarterback Dayne Crist during Notre Dame’s 35-17 loss to Navy Saturday. Kamara started in place of junior receiver Michael Floyd, who was held out of the game with a hamstring injury. 
Navy, a team that really shortens the definitely wanted to establish the run 
By MATT GAMBER game. Knowing we needed to score on game and get the clock on our side 
Sports Writer every possession, that falls on me.” because we knew they were going to 
With the Irish down 35-10 midway try to control the clock.” 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — With through the fourth quarter, coach The Irish run game had a chance to tight end Kyle Rudolph and receivers Brian Kelly pulled Crist in favor of make an early statement on 4th-and-Michael Floyd and Theo Riddick out for freshman Tommy Rees, who promptly goal inside the 1-yard line on the Saturday’s game against Navy, the Irish led Notre Dame on its only touchdown game’s opening possession, but Crist’s called upon the likes of Tyler Eifert, drive of the second half. sneak attempt was stuffed. That play Duval Kamara and TJ Jones in primary “Coach wanted to give him some reps gave Navy the momentum and the ball, roles where they hadn’t played much and some great experience,” Crist said. and the Midshipmen promptly drove 99 in live action this season. “I think he did a heck of a job manag-yards to take a lead they never relin-
While the result certainly wasn’t ing the game. He did everything he was quished. pretty in the 35-17 loss, junior quarter-asked to do and I was real proud of “I don’t know what happened, we back Dayne Crist said his new targets him.” just didn’t execute,” Martin said of the weren’t the reason why. With Rudolph, Floyd and Riddick play. “We didn’t get the job done.” 
“All those guys played well and I sidelined, and with Notre Dame’s dis-Crist added: “We didn’t put the ball have great confidence in them,” Crist tinct size advantage over Navy — after in the end zone. It’s pretty plan and said after the game. “All week in prac-the game, Kelly said the Irish out-simple, looking back on it. It falls on tice we continued to develop the chem-weighed the Midshipmen by an aver-our shoulders for not scoring, and real­istry that was already there, so really it age of 70 pounds along the offensive ly mine for not finding a way in.” was just fine-tuning and preparing for line — there was talk the Irish would Despite the disappointing perform-your opponent like you do every week.” try to run the ball more frequently ance, Martin said he and his linemates 
The passing attack, however, did not than in previous weeks. Notre Dame would continue to seek improvement look as crisp as it has at times this sea-ran the ball 30 times for 122 yards, but as the Irish look to improve the ground son. Crist threw two costly intercep-only 19 of those carries went to run-game. tions, with one leading to a Navy ning backs — and only 11 to senior “There’s always things you can work touchdown to end the first half and the starter Armando Allen, who managed on,” he said. “We’re not going to be other halting an Irish drive in 66 yards but saw an almost even split content — keep working in practice to Midshipmen territory in the second with sophomore Cierre Wood. try and establish that run game. half. “We know we can the run ball,” Running the ball will make it a lot easi­
“Just trying to do too much, but at sophomore tackle Zack Martin said. er on Dayne and on the line, too.” the end of the day it falls on me,” Crist “Maybe our stats haven’t shown it this said of the turnovers. “I can’t get those season, but we’re confident we can run Contact Matt Gamber at back. You can’t give the ball back to the ball. With some key guys out, we mgamber@nd.edu 
Irish Insider Extra live blog highlights 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. announcement to remind in and getting the first sophomore linebacker 
— Sports writers Douglas that the last Navy drive was down is him getting into the Carlo Calabrese, were Farmer and Matt Gamber 99 yards. Man did they end zone — not sure any-injured on the same play, blogged live from the press make it look easy. body would want to watch Notre Dame ’s lack of box at the New Douglas: Sam references the circus that is Notre depth started to show on Meadowlands Stadium dur-the banning of Ian Williams Dame’s goal line offense. the field. ing Notre Dame’s 35-17 loss from meetings last season’s Comment from Tyler, a Comment from Brent to Navy Saturday. Following Navy game, of which he reader: This TJ Jones is the Lidge, a reader: When are are some of the highlights said, “We were out -same as Tai-ler Jones that they going to make the call from their blog: schemed.” Doesn’t look like was recruited, right? Not upstairs to bring you down 
a whole lot has changed as sure why anyone would due to lack of players? After Navy drove 99 yards of now. want to get rid of their Matt: I’ve got an interhall down the field in only six hyphenated name! playoff game next Sunday. I plays, Douglas and Matt Irish freshman receiver TJ Matt: Print is expensive don’t want to waste any received some input from Jones pulled in a 16-yard these days, so he’s saving energy on this one. the stands. touchdown pass from jun-us some money. I’m sure he Douglas: I’m available as 
Douglas: The Observer’s ior quarterback Dayne knew how often we’d be soon as the call is made. Assistant Managing Editor Crist, breaking two tack-typing his name. Thanks for Sam Werner, in the stands les on his way into the thinking of us, TJ. today, has texted me that end zone, to bring Notre Tyler: Haha, such an For more from the live he would like to ban the Dame within 14-10 in the economist. blog, or for live blogs during entire defense from team second quarter. upcoming games, check the meetings this week after Matt: That’s a big-time In the second half, when Irish Insider Extra at ndsm­that drive. catch by TJ Jones. Even both senior defensive line-cobserver.com/sports/irish-
Matt: It took a PA bigger than just hauling it man Ian Williams and football/irish-insider-extra 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
N D  3  7  0  7  17  
N AVY  7  14  14  0  35  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 0, Navy 7 
Alexander Teich 31-yard pass from Ricky Dobbs (Jon Teague kick) with 6:05 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 99 yards, 3:08 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 3, Navy 7 
David Ruffer 45-yard field goal with 3:04 remaining 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 3, Navy 14 
Ricky Dobbs 3-yard run (Teague kick) with 
11:01 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 77 yards, 7:03 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 10, Navy 14 
TJ Jones 16-yard pass from Dayne Crist (Ruffer kick) with 6:07 remaining Drive: 13 plays, 72 yards, 4:54 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 10, Navy 21 
Gee Gee Greene 9-yard run (Teague kick) with 
0:14 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 30 yards, 1:45 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 10, Navy 28 
Dobbs 9-yard run (Teague kick) with 11:23 elapsed Drive: 7 plays, 77 yards, 3:37 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 10, Navy 35 
Dobbs 1-yard run (Teague kick) with 4:38 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 73 yards, 5:18 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Navy 35 
Cierre Wood 1-yard run (Ruffer kick) with 6:12 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 76 yards, 4:09 elapsed. 
statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

Time of Possession 

passing  
Crist Rees  19-31-178 6-7-79  Dobbs  2-2-71  
rushing  
Allen Crist Wood  11-66 10-25 8-17 7-71  Teich Dobbs Greene Diggs  28-114 4-23 6-19 2-9  
receiving  
Kamara Jones Eifert Wood Toma Allen Goodman Ragone  6-56 5-53 4-42 3-37 2-26 2-24 2-10 1-9  Jones Teich  1-40 1-31  

page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 26, 2010 


Three out of four 
After snapping a 43-year losing streak in the series against 
Notre Dame in 2007, Navy has now won three of the last four matchups between the two schools. Midshipmen fullback Alexander Teich and quarterback Ricky Dobbs led the way in the 35-17 Navy victory, combining 300 rushing yards and three touchdowns on the ground. 
Dobbs and Teich also connected for the Midshipmen’s first score of the game, a 31-yard touchdown pass in 
the first quarter. Irish junior quarterback Dayne Crist threw for 178 yards for Notre Dame, on 19 completions, including a 16-yard touch­down pass to freshman receiver TJ Jones in the second quarter. 



SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer TOM LA/The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Sophomore running back Cierre Wood falls short of the goal line, before getting into the end zone on the next play for Notre Dame’s final score Saturday; Senior receiver John Goodman can’t get to a pass from junior quarterback Dayne Crist; Navy quarterback Ricky Dobbs fights pass sophomore safety Zeke Motta and sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o for a Midshipmen touchdown; Crist throws his second interception of the day; Crist gets a pass over a Navy defensive lineman. 



