the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Class of 2014 stands out 
Incoming freshmen made cut among biggest applicant pool in history 
average SAT score of 1408 and an cial aid that helps us to enroll a

By SARAH MERVOSH 
average ACT of about 32. class that is as diverse and talent-
News Editor 
“This is another exceptional ed as we have,” he said. 
class for us,” Bob Mundy, interim About 48 percent of the incom-

Among the University’s largest director of Admissions, said. ing class will receive need-based applicant pool in history, the Mundy said the Office of financial aid, with an average members of the Class of 2014 Admissions works to create a scholarship of just over $25,600, stand out. well-rounded, diverse class and is he said. 
The University accepted about able to do so by providing as Mundy said Notre Dame’s com­29 percent of over 14,500 appli-much financial aid as possible. mitment to providing financial aid cants, resulting in an incoming “The University is making a freshman class that boasts an very strong commitment to finan-see 2014/page 5 



HOME UNDER THE DOME 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Many Notre Dame students will arrive on campus this weekend and spend their time catching up with friends, organizing rooms and prepar­ing for another semester of col­lege. 
But for the incoming fresh­man Class of 2014, the week­end will be a long process of moving into an unfamiliar dorm, meeting new classmates and beginning to participate in the exciting, and somewhat awkward, experience that is Freshman Orientation, or Frosh-O. 
With many of the incoming freshmen forming their impres­sions of their new dorm and the University itself, members of the Frosh-O staffs say they are making every effort to person­alize the move-in experience and make the transition as easy as possible for new residents. 
“We want to make sure that we welcome every single indi­vidual guy and make him feel at home,” junior Mitch Speer, Frosh-O commissioner for Carroll Hall, said. “Since we’re a small dorm, one individual student is 1 percent of my hall so we try and create a commu­nity atmosphere.” 
Other dorms see the move-in process as the ideal time to begin fostering relationships between the freshmen and their new home. 
“Throughout the move-in process, we want them to feel as comfortable as possible,” sophomore Mairin Talerico, Lewis Hall Frosh-O staff mem­ber, said. “We want to help them break out of their shells and become a part of this new family.” 
Several Frosh-O staff mem­bers said they understand that their efforts during the first weekend can potentially influ­ence the freshmen’s attitudes about their next four years at Notre Dame. 
see FROSH-O/page 5 
Dean, wife bike from Ariz. to ND for cause 
By COURTENAY DEVLIN 
News Writer 
College of Science Dean Gregory Crawford and his wife Renate have encoun­tered 42 flat tires and a few tarantulas while biking 2,200 across the country. 
The couple is raising money to represent the newly-enhanced relationship between Notre Dame and the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation, which united to support research dedicated to finding a cure for Niemann -Pick Type C (NPC) disease, according to the Crawfords’ blog docu­menting their experience. 
The couple will arrive at Main Circle on Monday between noon and 1:30 p.m. 
In their blog, the Craw-fords wrote that they are making the 2,200-mile chal­lenge to raise awareness about NPC and the new part­nership as well as to raise funds. 
This partnership will also be a model for future research projects of Notre Dame’s Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases. 
The Parseghian Foundation is a non-profit organization dedicated to funding medical research projects to find treatments and a cure for NPC, a deadly neurodegener­ative disease. 
Since they began their journey on July 24 in Tuscon, Ariz., Crawford said they have biked in six states and have overcome many chal­lenges. On their longest trav­el day, the couple rode 120 miles through Texas. 
“By far, [the most reward­ing part of the trip] has been meeting the Notre Dame family along the way,” 
see BIKE/page 5 
Female alumni recall transitioning to coed 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Pink jerseys in the bookstore, nuns as rectors and girls going to class are familiar sights to Notre Dame students today, but women 40 years ago fought for these priv­ileges — and they’re not about to let today’s students forget it. 
A group of Notre Dame alumnae established the “Thanking Father Ted Foundation” to thank University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, for admitting women since 1972. 

The foundation’s book, “Thanking Father Ted: Thirty-Five Years of Notre Dame Coeducation,” describes the tri­umphs and challenges the first women students faced. Female incoming freshmen will receive a copy of the book during Freshman Orientation. 
The early years of Notre Dame coeducation were cer­tainly rocky, alumnae said. Anne Thompson, NBC’s Chief Environmental Affairs Correspondent and 1979 alum­na, remembers the early strug­gles. 
see HESBURGH/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Transfer students get adjusted page 4  Advice for freshmen page 13  Brian Kelly brings change to football team page 24 Viewpoint page 11 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Saturday, August 21, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Get Involved 
Congratulations, freshmen: You’ve successfully moved into your dorm room and are inching ever closer to really beginning your college careers. 
Now, you’re probably wondering what your first order of business should be on Sunday after­noon after you say goodbye to the fami­ly. 
My advice? Join The Observer. 

OK, so that was a bit presumptuous. As much as we’d love to have you, I’m not suggesting you all storm our offices as soon as the clock strikes midnight on your orientation weekend. And while I’d like to think many of you will end up working on our staff — and you’re all welcome to give it a shot — I realize the newspaper won’t be for everyone. 
So, what I’m really suggesting is that you make it your top priority to get involved and stay involved. 
Getting involved means something dif­ferent for everyone. It can be as simple as eating dinner with your hallmates or as ambitious as starting your own club. 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communities, and especially the people who comprise these communities, have so much to offer — that’s probably why you’re here today. Now, it’s up to you to make the most of those opportunities, and you can start by getting involved. 
As freshmen, we were all nervous about our first day of classes. We all wondered how we’d get along with our roommates and our rectors. We were all excited for our first football game as students — yes, even the seniors, who endured a 3-9 record during our fresh­man year. 
These certain uncertainties are part of what make the first few days and weeks of college so exciting. But they can also keep us so occupied that we feel like we can’t do anything else out­side those daily commitments. 
Surely we’re all here to be students first, but you all have unique interests and abilities that can help you make valuable contributions outside of the classroom. You may know exactly the clubs or activities where you’re going to make those contributions, but chances are you’re like I was, without a clue of what I wanted to do. 
I’d strongly recommend going to activities night next Tuesday, where you’ll have the chance to reach out to upperclassmen involved in all sorts of organizations across campus. Sign up for anything that remotely interests you, and try to go to a few meetings or out­ings of a couple different organizations. Talk to the people in your dorms and ask what they do around campus — anything to expand your network and learn what your options are. 
Of course, I hope this leads some of you to our offices in the basement of South Dining Hall for a reason other than trying to find where to get your student ID picture taken. 
Either way, now that you’re settled, it’s time to get involved. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ARE YOU MOST LOOKING FORWARD TO AT NOTRE DAME? 






“Football  “DomerFest and  “Meeting new  “I’m excited to  “Definitely  “Living away  
games.”  all the fun dorm  people.”  get back and  football  from my  
activities.”  see the hockey  season.”  parents.”  

team again.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 
ORIENTATION WEEKEND 

Today Tonight SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 85/72 Boston 81 / 60 Chicago 84 / 69 Denver 92 / 65 Houston 96 / 78 Los Angeles 83 / 64 Minneapolis 88 / 69 
New York 83 / 69 Philadelphia 87 / 70 Phoenix 107 / 90 Seattle 66 / 52 St. Louis 91 / 71 Tampa 90 / 78 Washington 91 / 74 

Saturday, August 21, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 3 page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 21, 2010 

Five new rectors prepare to welcome students 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame is home to five new rectors this fall. 
Students in Cavanaugh Hall, Lewis Hall, Pasquerilla West Hall, Sorin College and Walsh Hall will see new leadership in the dorm this year. 
Annie Selak, Walsh Hall rector, said her goals for the dorm include helping the community grow within the dorm’s walls. 
“Being able to accompany young women is an honor,” she said. “My overall goal is to be present for the students.” 
Selak, who has lived all her life in California except for a year in Detroit, graduated from Santa Clara University and majored in religious studies and political sci­ence. She received her Master of Divinity at the Jesuit School of Theology at Berkeley. 
“[The past few weeks] have been very busy,” she said. “We’ve had training. It’s been wonderful to meet people at Notre Dame.” 
Fr. Robert Loughery, known as Fr. Bob, joined Facebook as part of the effort to lead Sorin College. 
“I want to share what I’ve expe­rienced,” he said. “Faith calls service. I would like to somehow invite residents to continue and expand this awareness in the dorm.” 
He also said the dorm’s tradi­tions foster important relation­ships. 
“I’d encourage people to see the entire value of the relationships they build here,” he said. 
Loughery was born and raised in Indianapolis and graduated from Notre Dame in 1979 with a degree in architecture. He lived in Sorin as an undergraduate stu­dent. 
“It feels like coming home,” he said. 
The new rector of Pasquerilla West Hall, Sr. Mary Jane Hahner, said she ended up at Notre Dame because she wanted to work in ministry. 
“We’re all different,” she said. “We have to work at being an inclusive community. The girls will appreciate being wonderful and created by God.” 
An internship in spiritual direc­tion during her education at the Catholic Theology University in Chicago changed her life, Hahner said. She also wants to work with Campus Ministry. 
She said she cries every time she watches Rudy and enjoys rid­ing an all-terrain vehicle with her nephew while on holidays in her hometown of Pottsville, Pa. 
“I always call everyone ‘girls,’ no matter how old. It’s a youthful heart,” she said. “We all want that youthful heart.” 
She said the hardest adjustment has been the college culture and time schedule. 
“I thought I was a night person 
— forget about it,” she said. 
Maria Hinton, the new rector of Cavanaugh Hall, might have a better idea of the student sched­ule. A “double domer,” she gradu­ated from the Notre Dame Law School in May and was an assis­tant rector in Lyons Hall for two years. 
“I want to make sure to have the strongest community we can,” she said. “I want to build upon what we already have here.” 
Lewis Hall rector Layla Karst also graduated from Notre Dame in May with a Master of Divinity. She said her goal for the year is to learn about the community of Lewis. 

“I want to know who makes up the community and bring out gifts and talents,” she said. 
She said she loves to travel on breaks. Originally from Idaho Falls, Idaho, she went to Whitworth College — now Whitworth University — in Spokane, Wash. She was an assis­tant rector in Pasquerilla East Hall for two years before becom­ing a rector. 
“Each dorm is so unique,” she said. “It’s a whole new set of tra­ditions, people and building.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 





No structural damage to Grotto after July fire 
just over two weeks following has taken place. granite flaked, almost like ed to the landmark. 
By AMANDA GRAY 
the fire and has since “There is no rack in the back peeling an onion,” he said. “People need to be aware 
Assistant News Editor 
reopened. corner,” Szakaly said. “The top “Workers had to go through the that those lit candles are fire, Szakaly said the fire began tiers of the racks have also entire Grotto and break off the and anytime we’re dealing with 

The Grotto is now back to by accident when the candles been removed, so flames aren’t small pieces.” fire we have to be careful,” he normal after the campus land-in its back, left corner com-as close to the ceiling. The Szakaly said the fire was not said. mark caught fire at the end of busted. racks are arranged differently.” as damaging as the fire in 1985 Szakaly said he was most July. “It was a warm, humid day Szakaly said candles will now during the Michigan State foot-touched by the outpouring of 
A fire started at the shrine with very little breeze,” he be in glass containers, as ball game. These two fires are concern for the condition of the July 26 just before the evening said. “There were a large num-opposed to the plastic contain-the only fires in the Grotto’s Grotto by members of the rosary, said Fr. Anthony ber of candles lit for a summer ers. recent history, according to Notre Dame community. He Szakaly, assistant provincial day.” “We’re looking at what that’s Office of Public Information said the Grotto acts as a place and steward for the Szakaly said wooden sticks going to mean [in terms of and Communication. for spirituality, God and prayer. Congregation of Holy Cross used to light candles may have cost],” Szakaly said. The Grotto is a one-seventh “It shows how important the priests in the Indiana chapter. also been left accidentally in The Grotto reopened on scale of the original Grotto in Grotto is,” he said. The group maintains the the candles. There was no August 13 after rigorous clean-Lourdes, France, constructed Grotto. structural damage to the ing. on campus in 1896, according Contact Amanda Gray at 
The Grotto was closed for Grotto, but some rearranging “The fire was so hot … the to a University website dedicat-agray3@nd.edu 



Saturday, August 21, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

2014 
continued from page 1 
has been crucial. 
“With the economy, many col­leges are literally scrambling to find ways to spend less money. Fortunately, we remain commit­ted to meeting the full demon­strated need of all of our stu­dents,” he said. 
For those who didn’t make the cut for need-based scholarships, this year marked the first time that students had the opportunity to apply for the Hesburgh-Yusko Scholarship, which is merit-based. 
The program awarded 25 mem­bers of the class of 2014 a schol­arship based on academic achievement, leadership, moral character and commitment to service. The scholarship totals at $25,000 per year, per student. 
“They are outstanding. They are absolute leaders in their high schools and communities,” Joan Ball, associate director of the scholarship program, said. 
The class of 2014 is made up of about 2065 students — 53 per­cent male and 47 percent female. Twenty-four percent of the class is children of Notre Dame alumni. 
The class has a similar ethnic make up to last year, with 23 per­cent of the class coming from minority groups. 
Last year, the Admissions Office expressed disappointment in the percentage of black students in the Class of 2013. The group now makes up a slightly larger per­centage of this year’s incoming class — jumping from 3.5 to 4.3 percent. 
Asian Americans make up 7.3 percent of the class, and Hispanics account for 10 percent. Native Americans make up 1.5 percent of the incoming freshman class. 
The international population increased slightly from last year’s freshman class. The Class of 2014 is made up of 4 percent interna­tional students, a 1 percent increase from last year. 
This year’s international stu­dents come from 25 different countries. The largest group of students comes from South Korea, followed by China. 
“We have 20 more international students in the class this year, and that group of students was up pretty significantly in their appli­cations as well,” Mundy said. 
Mundy said the Class of 2014 was “very strong” in extracurricu­lar participation as well. 
“We’ve got some exceptional stories of students committing to and completing some tremendous volunteer work, some statewide and national honors,” he said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Rodgers said when she walked up to register at her new hall 
Frosh-O 
that “everyone knew my name continued from page 1 and who I was, which was really cool.” Throughout the weekend, 
“We want to give the best many of Notre Dame’s newest impression of Notre Dame so students have similarly felt that they start their first days welcomed to campus despite 
of  college  the  chaos  that  
with  a  posi- surrounds  the  
tive attitude,”  initial  move  to  
j u n i o r K a t h l e e n  “So far everyone’s  college. “So far every- 
M c K i e r n a n , Howard Hall Frosh-O com- been really helpful and welcoming.”  one’s been really helpful and wel­c o m i n g , ”  
m i s s i o n e r,  Morrissey Manor  
said. “It’s i m p o r t a n t that we give  Matt Hickey freshman  freshman Matt Hickey said. “The hall staff’s been  
them  a  feel- outgoing  and  
ing of a place  i n t r o d u c i n g  
they want to  themselves, but  

be — their ‘home away from it’s still been pretty crazy try-home.’” ing to move everything in.” New Howard Duck Lily Freshman Andrea Rosado, a 
new resident of Pangborn Hall, said she “definitely” sees herself at home in Pangborn Hall and said her Frosh-O staff was very friendly. 
“The transition has been really easy,” she said. “I’m not nervous at all, 
Easing the transition to Notre Dame requires a lot of time and effort on behalf of the Frosh-O staffs on campus, but most coordinators agree that the easiest way to make the new students welcome is to reach out and be a friend to the new freshmen. 
“We just try and be our­selves,” Speer said. “Our staff was picked for a reason. We put on a happy face and get these guys in the dorm and just make sure they enjoy themselves.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
“My dad went to Notre Dame and he raised all four of us kids to believe we could do anything,” she said. “I went to Notre Dame believing that, and I encountered for the first time the belief that I couldn’t do something because of my gender.” 
Even after she graduated, Thompson fought the assump­tion that a girl could not be a Notre Dame graduate. 
“I spent 10 years telling peo­ple that I didn’t go to Saint Mary’s,” Thompson said. 
Even a few years later, women at Notre Dame were not yet completely at home in the male-dominated school. 
Anne Giffels, the foundation treasurer and a 1981 alumna, took a number of classes where women were in the minority. 
“You were very aware that you were a woman,” she said. 
The transition to a coeduca­tional Notre Dame was rough on administrators as well as students. 
In an interview published in the “Thanking Father Ted” book, Hesburgh described how he took criticism for nearly every decision he made, from not merging with Saint Mary’s College to insisting on single-sex dorms. 
“I wanted women to have some downtime of their own,” Hesburgh said of that last decision. “As I see it, there are 

Bike 
continued from page 1 
Crawford said. 
Cindy and Mike Parseghian, both 1977 grad­uates of Notre Dame, estab­lished the foundation in 1994 because of the diagnosis of NPC for three of their four children. 
“It has been wonderful working with Cindy and Mike Parseghian, Coach Ara and the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation,” he said. “They turned their hardship into hope for so many others.” 
The foundation currently funds 25 labs researching NPC, according to Notre Dame’s College of Science website. It has been a spon­sor of medical breakthroughs including the identification of the gene responsible for times when women want to get in their PJ’s, sit on the bed and talk women talk.” 
Hesburgh’s understanding of “women talk” came from growing up with three sisters. Their influence was one rea­son he made Notre Dame co­educational, Hesburgh said. 
“My life is a lot richer because I was not just formed by my mother and father but by [my sisters],” Hesburgh said in the book. “I didn’t have to have a big picture drawn for me to know that if Notre Dame had one big failing, it was the fact that it was only addressing half of the Catholic Church.” 
After the integration of women at Notre Dame, Hesburgh made a point of making Notre Dame’s new daughters feel welcomed. 
Giffels said she would often to go the Grotto late at night and would see Hesburgh. 
“He would stop to chat,” she said. “It made me feel very much a part of the Notre Dame community.” 
Giffels was also confident that despite the criticism, 
Hesburgh  made  the  right  
choice.  
“Having  women at  Notre  

Dame has really made it a bet­ter place,” she said. 
Thompson, meanwhile, said she thrived as a student, in spite of some initial prejudice. She found professors who believed in her and drove her to succeed. 
“My ability to get into Notre Dame provided me with tremendous opportunities I direction, our unity of pur­pose, our sense of cama ­raderie and cooperation and our spirit of commitment to the values and vocation that have always guided the College of Science,” the Crawfords wrote in the blog. 
Contact Courtenay Devlin at cdevlin@nd.edu 
NPC1, and the discovery of 
c h o l e s t e r ol  p a t h way  th a t  
occurs in all humans.  
After already biking  over  

2,000 miles, the Crawfords have hit the home stretch. Crawford said they have con­fidence in achieving the 2,200-mile goal. 
“We will succeed because of our common vision and wouldn’t have had otherwise,” she said. 
As director and treasurer of the Thanking Father Ted Foundation, with accounts of their Notre Dame years appearing in the “Thanking Father Ted” book, Thompson and Giffels share their love for their alma mater while reminding today’s women stu­dents of just how lucky they are. 
“It doesn’t even occur to the female students today that someone would not take them seriously,” Giffels said. “And I think that’s a very good thing.” 
Thompson said today’s cam­pus dynamic is what Hesburgh had in mind 40 years ago. 
“Female students are not there to fulfill a quota system but because they are the best and the brightest,” she said. 
Today, Thompson is still reaping the benefits of her Notre Dame education. 
“Your Notre Dame education gets better every day after graduation,” Thompson said. “I appreciate it more now than I ever did then.” 
And Thompson knows who she has to thank for that opportunity. Her work with “Thanking Father Ted” is her chance to give back to the man who gave her – and all Notre Dame women – a chance to be a part of the University. 
“I could spend the rest of my life saying ‘Thank you,’” Thompson said. “And it would-n’t be enough.” 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 21, 2010 
Transfer students adjust to life at Notre Dame 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
NewsWriter 
As some 2,000 freshmen swarm campus for Freshman Orientation, another group of students will also take their first steps as Domers — but they’re not freshmen and they might not even live on campus. 
They’re transfer students, part of the 150 students who are newcomers to campus this weekend, ready to enjoy a miniature version of Freshman Orientation known as “Transfer-O.” 
This year’s transfer students 
come from schools all across the nation, junior Catherine Hicks, who is on the Transfer-O committee, said. 
The students from Southern universities might be unpleas­antly surprised by their switch to South Bend’s colder climate, but Hicks said bad weather is not the worst problem transfer students will face. They might find themselves with no place to live on campus. 
“Half the incoming transfers each year don’t get housing,” Hicks said. “The Notre Dame dorms suffer from overcrowd­ing.” 
Whether they live on campus or off, the transfer students have a busy few days ahead of them. 
The Transfer-O agenda includes a welcome Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, a scavenger hunt, learning Notre Dame football cheers and a trip to the Indiana dunes. 
Though Transfer-O is similar to Freshmen Orientation in many ways, its focus is differ­ent. 
“Frosh-O is a lot more about dorm bonding,” Hicks said. “Transfer-O is about quickly getting adapted to Notre Dame.” 
There are also a few hidden perks to entering Notre Dame with a year of college already under the belt. 
“Transfers don’t have to go to Domerfest or take the swim test,” Hicks said. 
Senior Megan Osterhout, who transferred from Saint Mary’s College two years ago and is a Transfer-O commissioner this year, said Notre Dame made her transition smooth. 
“I have honestly never felt a more welcoming experience in my life,” she said. “Transfers are my best friends now.” 
Other transfer students said they enjoyed a similarly smooth transition – in spite of concerns they had about transferring. 
“Transferring is like jumping into a game at halftime. You’re looking at everything through the eyes of a freshman, but you’re not a freshman,” Senior Ian Heraty, who transferred Notre Dame from University of Illinois Springfield, said. 
Like most new students, Heraty said he was nervous coming to a new school and going through the orientation process. 
“I was nervous going into it,” he said. “But it turned out to be a total blast.” 

Heraty is sharing his transfer pete in a game of “Transfer dents – transfer and freshmen experiences with this year’s Family Feud” and will help – to dive right into campus life. newcomers as the leader of a each other adjust as they tran-“The thing with transferring “Transfer family” in Transfer-sition to a new school. to Notre Dame is that it’s what 
O. For those new to campus this 
Contact Tess Civantos at 
The transfer families, groups weekend, Transfer-O commit­
tcivanto@nd.edu 
of about 10 students, will com-tee members urged all new stu-
RAs prepare for year of 

Studentgovernment 
duty, new student arrivals 

offers city bus tour 
By JOHN CAMERON 
NewsWriter 
To counteract students’ tendency to stay within the Notre Dame cam­pus “bubble,” student government is offering a bus tour of South Bend. 
The bus tour, which has been offered for the past five years, will leave from the flagpole between the Joyce Center and the stadium at 5 
p.m. Monday. 
The tour is meant to provide stu­dents an opportunity to see the city 
of South Bend as 
more  than  just  
home  to  the  
University.  

Junior Claire Sokas, chair of stu­dent government’s Community Outreach Committee, said students, especially freshmen, have much to gain from becoming better acquainted with the community outside the campus. 
“It will give them 
a better idea of the opportunities and activities off campus,” Sokas said. “I hope it gets them to get off campus a lot more than I did my freshman year.” 
Transpo, South Bend’s bus serv­ice, provided the buses and collabo­rated with student government in planning the event. 
“I hope it helps [students] realize how easy it is to get off campus with Transpo, and how many things 
there are to do, especially in down-

RAs as good examples of a“It will give them a 
to take part, and Notre Dame student,” Zahm 

better sense of the there should be 
Hall RA Tim Woodward said. 

opportunities and enough space on 
“I liked having relationships the buses to and friendships with them 

activities off 
accommodate all because I have always felt campus.” interested stu­they are cool guys.” 

dents. 
The training process began “The tour is 

Claire Sokas 
two weeks ago when the RAs open to anyone, moved into their dorms on 

chair, student govern-
but geared 
Aug. 8. Senior Liz Davis, an RA in 

ment community out-towards fresh-
reach committee men,” Sokas said. 
town South Bend which is really thriving,” Sokas said. 
The bus tour will highlight the city’s shopping and dining areas — from the stores and restaurants along the campus’s perimeter at Eddy Street Commons to those at the center of downtown South Bend. 
The tour will stop downtown at the Morris Plaza for pizza and a brief presentation with Mayor Stephen Luecke before returning to campus, Sokas said. 
While incoming freshmen are especially encouraged to take 
advantage of the 
bus tour, all stu­
dents are welcome 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
NewsWriter 
As many students packed boxes of clothes and shopped for dorm furniture this week­end, a handful of seniors in each residence hall prepared themselves for another side of dorm life on campus. The res­ident assistants (RAs) for the 29 dorms on campus arrived days before the rest of the student body to learn to address their specific con­cerns for the upcoming year. 
“I always looked up to the 
“Last year’s 
turnout was really 
good, so we’re hoping this year’s is too.” 
There will be a table set up at Domerfest tonight where freshmen can get more information about the tour. 
The tour is expected to take less than two hours and students can expect to be back on campus before 7 p.m. Monday. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Lyons Hall, described the training process as multi­faceted and said the future RAs spent time not only with the rest of Notre Dame hall staff discussing general policy, but also on a more direct level with only their dorm staff. 
“My expectations for the training were mini-lectures, hall staff dinners, late nights and great chats,” Davis said. “All were met.” 
She said her past experi­ences with RAs in Lyons moti­vated her to reach out and provide the same guidance to younger students. 
“I want to be that RA that not only sees the change but is the change,” Davis said. 
Hall staff training provides not only insight into handling possible situations inside dorm life but also a network of people to respond should an individual RA not directly understand how to act, Davis said. 
“Everything is great in theo­ry but the practice is really what defines our job,” Davis said. “You cannot predict what will happen.” 
Senior Rebecca Sharbaugh said she met an RA during her freshman year in Pasquerilla East who helped her transition to life at Notre Dame, and this first taste of dorm life inspired her to apply for the position herself to help students “through the highs and lows of their year here.” 
“The first part of training included all the RAs in all the halls,” she said. “And we basi­cally heard a lot of talks about the resources on campus, how those resources can help and how we can encourage stu­dents to use those resources.” 
The training process was broken into discussions on general policy and conversa­tions within each residence hall staff, Sharbaugh said. 
“We also went through exercises where we did role-play and acted in difficult sit­uations that we might encounter,” Sharbaugh said. “It gave the confidence to go into a situation when I do not know what to expect.” 
Senior Jim Maslar applied for an RA position in order to be a “big brother” to the undergraduates in his dorm. 
“[ORLH] did a good job of addressing the diversity of the students in our sections,” he said. “We talked about how to make people feel comfortable and make our sections wel­coming.” 
Nick Mancinelli said he spent his freshman year in Morrissey Manor living in a section of upperclassmen, but his RA was critical in getting him involved with the other freshmen in the dorm. 
“I thought before we went into the training that it would be more about how to bring in someone feeling left out in the group,” Mancinelli said. “But the training in reality was much more serious than that.” 
Mancinelli cited suicide pre­vention, homosexuality, gen­der relations, fire safety and CPR training as issues that were among the wide range covered during the training. 
“I can really make or break their experience,” Mancinelli said. “I am excited for that responsibility.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at 
mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Saturday, August 21, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 21, 2010 

Saint Mary’s Board of Trustees elects 10 new members 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
During the spring meeting, Saint Mary’s College Board of Trustees elected 10 new mem­bers, Susan Dampeer, assistant to the president of the College said. 
The Board also elected a new chair, Mary L. Burke. Burke will serve a three-year term. She has been a member of the Board since 2005. 
According to Dampeer, the Board elects new members each year. 
“[The Board members] are on [the Board] in such a way that some rotate off every year,” Dampeer said. 
The new trustees are: Michael E. Cahill, Nancy Dobson, Thomas P. Fitzgerald, Catherine Frischkorn, Sr. Judith Hallock, Beth Veihmeyer, Joan LeSage, Sr. Rose Anne Schultz, Linda Kawecki and Emma Hoffman. 
Cahill acts as president and chief operating officer of The Options Clearing Corporation in Chicago. He is also involved in a variety of organizations including Boy Scouts of America, The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Financial Markets Working Group and the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
Dobson works as the execu­tive vice president of Uniland Development Company in Amherst, N.Y. Dobson is a member several boards includ­ing Claremont Housing for the Elderly, People Inc. Foundation and the Kenmore Mercy Hospital Foundation. 
Fitzgerald also is active on several boards. He sits on the Loyola University Health System and Leaders Bank boards. He also works with the American Cancer Society. Fitzgerald is currently a capital partner with the law firm Winston & Strawn LLP. 
Frishkorn serves as a board member and volunteer for the Crossroads Foundation. She also acts as vice president of the Saint Bernard Parish Conference of the Pittsburgh Society for Saint Vincent de Paul. 
Though Hallock is currently on sabbatical waiting for a new ministry assignment from the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, she has previ­ously served as the area coor­dinator of North America for the Sisters. She also worked with Saint Ignatius, Martyr, Parish in Austin, Texas. 
Veihmeyer serves as a board member for the Providence Hospital Foundation in Maryland as well as Support Our Aging Religious (SOAR). She previously worked as a public relations consultant for Rand Construction Company. Veihmeyer also served on the Saint Mary’s College Alumnae Association Board of Directors previously. 
LeSage works as the assistant general counsel for Commercial and Environmental Law for the Southern California Gas Company. 
Schultz previously served as the vice president for mission at the Center for Spirituality at the College. Currently, Schultz is on a year-long sabbatical. 
Kawecki is currently serving as the new president of the Saint Mary’s College Alumnae Board. She is a corporate financial executive and has previously worked as the direc­tor of financial analysis at Tenet Health Systems. Kawecki will serve the Board as the Alumnae Board Representative during her term on the Board of Trustees. 
Dampeer said Emma Hoffman, a senior at the College, was elected to act as the student trustee. Hoffman will serve a one-year term. 
Hoffman is a biology major who has been an active mem­ber of the Student Government Association. Hoffman has also been involved in the Biology Club at the College and is a peer minister. 
“The student representative is a full voting member of the Board of Trustees, equally responsible. There is nothing that separates her from the full Board,” Dampeer said. 
The new members were invited to visit the College in June for the Board’s annual retreat. The retreat is a two-day event held each summer to allow the Board to discuss issues further in depth, Dampeer said. 
Dampeer said the new trustees will become official members during a meeting this October. 
The Board holds three regu­lar meetings during each aca­demic year. 
“[The Board] sets policy, monitors the mission and selects the President,” Dampeer said. 
Dampeer said the Board is also responsible for making decisions about tuition fluctua­tions. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


College sees low enrollment 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Saint Mary’s Class of 2014 is the College’s most diverse class yet, Gwen O’Brien, director of Media Relations, said. 
O’Brien said 16 percent of the class is a member of a historical­ly underrepresented group. 
In 2007, Saint Mary’s President Carol Ann Mooney committed to increase the diversity of the stu­dent body in the Strategic Plan. 
“In regard to the student body, her goal over five years was to increase the enrollment of stu­dents from historically underrep­resented minorities to at least 15 percent,” O’Brien said. 
The incoming class will be made of 335 first years, down from last year’s class of over 400. 
The applicant pool was less competitive than previous years, and Mona Bowe, vice president for Enrollment Management said she believes this could be due to “timing.” 

About 25 percent of the stu­dent body is from Indiana, Bowe said, and in the past two years the state has reduced aid for stu­dents from a maximum of just over $10,000 to $7,000,” Bowe said. 
Over 90 percent received high­er than a 3.0 GPA while in high school, and 70 percent were in 
SMC voted ‘Best in the Midwest’ for 2011 
Mary ’s College, said in a
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
release. 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s was selected out of 152 institutions to 
Saint Mary’s has made it receive the honor. into the The Princeton Mooney said it is the stu­Review’s top 100 on their list dents and alumnae that truly 
of “2011 Best Colleges: Region by 
“Our commitment to
Region” for the 
an excellent
eighth time. The College intellectual and was also named 
academic experience
one of the 
for our students is
nation’s “Best Liberal Arts unwavering,” Colleges.” 
“We are very 
Carol Ann Mooney 
pleased to once 
president
again be 
included among Saint Mary’s College The Princeton Review’s ‘Best bring the posi­tive feedback and recognition to the College. 
“Our commit­ment to an excellent intel­lectual and academic expe­rience for our students is unwavering, ” Mooney said. “Our graduates are our best recruit ers. Their accom ­the top 25 percent of their class. 

The Class of 2014 also repre­sents 28 states and 3 countries: Mexico, Bolivia and Peru. 
“We’re looking at our data to understand why the College did-n’t get the level of first year com­mitments anticipated,” Bowe said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
in the Midwest,’” Carol Ann Mooney, president of Saint 


plishments speak volumes about the quality of the edu­cational experience they received here.” 
Saint Mary’s has received the honor since the Princeton Review began the rankings. 
“We’re pleased to recom­mend Saint Mary’s College to users of our site as one of the best schools to earn their undergraduate degree,” said Robert Franek, The Princeton Review’s senior vice president of publishing. 
Franek said the rankings are based on the quality of academic programs at each institution as well as first­hand knowledge of the school’s value. 
“The institutions we name as ‘regional best’ colleges are mainly chosen for their excel­lent academic programs,” Franek said. 
He also said feedback from students is a factor in the decision. 
“We also take into account what students at the schools reported to us about their campus experiences at them on our 80-question student survey for this project,” he said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Saturday, August 21, 2010 page 9 
Campus leaders welcome Class of 2014 
Dear Students: 

With the beginning of a new academic year, I extend a warm welcome to all new and returning stu­dents of the University of Notre Dame. In particular, I wish to congratulate and welcome our freshmen and transfer students. We are excited and grateful that you are here, and it is our intention to help you achieve all of your goals and ambitions. 
Over the course of your time at Notre Dame, I encourage you to make the most of each moment. Be open to engaging new friends, those who may have very similar or very different personal stories and perspectives. Embrace each classroom experience as an opportunity to expand your knowledge, hone your talents and share your ideas. If you live in a residence hall, explore the multiple ways that you can contribute as a leader. When you face challenge, know that you are not alone and do not hesitate to seek support from those around you. Finally, in all that you do, take a few moments each day for personal reflection to refresh your spirit. 
One of the primary objectives of Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, is to develop young minds that are prepared to make positive contributions to the world and help solve society’s challenges. We are confident that you possess the talent and desire to make meaningful and lasting contributions to the university community and to the world. 
Once again, welcome to Notre Dame. May you soon come to feel at home on campus, and to love this place, as do so many graduates of past years. I hope to meet you in person over the course of your time, and throughout that time, I will keep you in my prayers. 
In Notre Dame, 
Fr. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. 
University president Aug. 19 
On behalf of the faculty and staff at Saint Mary's College, I extend a warm welcome to the Class of 2014 and our transfer students. As the 11th president of Saint Mary’s, and a proud alumna, I know how powerful this experience will be for you. You will spend the next four years in a rigorous academic environment supported by an excellent faculty, close friends and a deeply caring staff. 
As a Holy Cross institution, we place a special emphasis on the education of the whole person. Your education will not end when you leave the classroom, each activity in which you participate will enhance your collegiate experience. I encourage you to partici­pate in as many co-curricular activities as time and your academic schedule will permit. 
One of my aspirations for you is that you will develop a sense of obligation to the common good and that your entire life and work will reflect that understanding. If this happens for you, then you, too, will have experienced the real Saint Mary’s. 
Our proud 166-year tradition of educating women to make a dif­ference in the world now includes you. It is your turn to make histo­ry at Saint Mary's College. I look forward to accompanying you on this exciting journey. 
Carol Ann Mooney 
College president Aug. 19 
Welcome Class of 2014! 

We hope that you’ve enjoyed your first few moments here on campus and have had a stress-free move in! We are lucky enough to have been elected as your stu­dent body president and vice president. Student government at Notre Dame is made up of many branches which you can learn about at Activities Night and get involved in within the next few weeks. 
Student government is the link between the students and the administration, presenting student voice and opinion on a variety of issues. This year we are working on projects as large as the Rent-A-Text program in the Bookstore and as small as the introduction of Roasted Red Pepper Hummus in the Dining Halls. We help plan Pep Rallies; have created “The Wall,” a spot in LaFortune to check out events for students; and sponsor the Freshman Bus Tour (which is this Monday at 5 p.m.!). We also work on long-term initiatives such as revamping the main lounge in DeBartolo, creating an Off Campus Discount Program, coordinating a campus-wide social justice movement focused on fighting hunger and working with the local community to promote good neighbor relations and a positive connection to South Bend. We also do simple things such as provide free DVD rentals in our office, free newspapers in the Dining Halls and other campus locations, and the Transpo 7A Midnight Express on the weekend nights. 
Ultimately, our primary role is to serve you as a student here at Notre Dame. We are fortunate enough to have the resources and respect from the community to make changes, give student input and work with our peers to create a better expe­rience for us all. Please feel free to contact us with ideas, suggestions, questions, concerns, etc. We would love you to join us as we work for our University. There are two great opportunities for freshmen to get involved in student government, feel free to visit studentgovernment.nd.edu to learn more about them! 
As for us, you can find us practically 24 hours a day, seven days a week, in our office in 203 LaFortune. We would love for you to stop by to talk, complain, tell us a joke or bring us candy from the Huddle. 
Also, if you’re lost on campus, want someone to talk to (or your parents want someone to talk to), need to ask a question, etc., look for a Student Government member wearing a blue “Ask Me” name tag. They will be happy to help! 
Enjoy your first few days on campus! To keep it brief, here is our one line of advice as you begin these unforgettable years here at ND: Be open, be excited, embrace it all and be yourself! 
We are so happy to have you here! See you at the first pep rally! 
Go Irish! 
Catherine Soler 
Notre Dame student body president 
Andrew Bell 
Notre Dame student body vice president Aug. 19 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at ndsmcobserver.com 
If you are interested in copy editing for the Viewpoint section, please e-mail Michelle at mmaitz@nd.edu 
Welcome, Class of 2014! Your moment has finally arrived: the moment that you embark upon a journey of self-discovery, independence, and growth. As you settle into your new surroundings, you will begin to see what parts of your college community best fit you. While discovering your new campus, be sure to take note of your student government. It will serve as a model organization as a catalyst for change; take advan­tage of all that it has to offer. Do not be afraid to challenge and be chal­lenged. The more you venture into the unknown, the more you will learn. Be adventurous and daring, but never lose sight of who you are. 
While you are here, you have a unique opportunity to be a part of a Catholic community. Unlike any other, it is one that will offer cama­raderie, strengthen your faith, and expand your thinking. The people around you will become your family, and you will come to rely on and trust in them through the years. 
Live the next four years to the fullest, and take in every opportunity, every moment, and every tradition. Your time here may be short, but it will become a part of you for all the years after. 
Going along with all these opportunities, Saint Mary’s Student Government Association is here to serve you as your advocate. If you have an ambition, if you need resources, or when you need an ally, Student Government is here for you, and we are here because of you. 
Our Student Government Association office is located on the second floor of the Student Center, and there is always a friendly face waiting to greet and learn more about you. On behalf of Saint Mary’s Student Government Association and all of your new Saint Mary’s sisters, wel­come home. 
Test your limits. Take risks. Dream. Discover. 
Rachael Chesley 
Saint Mary’s student body president 
Laura Smith 
Saint Mary’s student body vice president Aug. 19 
For 168 consecutive years, the University of Notre Dame has opened its doors to welcome new students. For those serving here, we approach this year with as much zeal and optimism as you our first-year, transfer, professional, and new graduate students bring to cam­pus. The University’s legacy is long and its traditions are deep, but your presence renews and will enliven this storied Catholic institution. On behalf of all of us who serve in Student Affairs, we welcome our newest members to campus, but most importantly, to our community. 
The Division of Student Affairs, in concert with our colleagues throughout campus, strives to facilitate your intellectual, spiritual, and personal growth. The integration of these essential human dimensions 
is one hallmark of a Notre Dame education. 
The University offers a variety of valuable resources to assist you. Our 29 undergraduate residence halls and two graduate and family residence facilities help to create the sense of community that is one of our most distinctive features. Student service departments in the Division of Student Affairs are experienced in supporting both special­ized needs and integrative approaches to your development. You will find ready partners among the dedicated staff of Campus Ministry, the Career Center, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Counseling Center, the Gender Relations Center, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, University Health Services, the Office of Residence Life and Housing, Student Activities and Notre Dame Security Police. 
As you enter into this community I encourage you to keep your “eyes high” as you walk about campus — so that we might greet one another personally, and as a way to consider the long horizon of your life when contemplating the individual decisions and countless opportunities awaiting you. 
Please know you have the very best efforts and wishes of the Student Affairs Division, and that you are lifted in prayer daily by me and my brothers and sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Fr. Tom Doyle 
vice president for Student Affairs Aug. 19 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Saturday, August 21, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Pat Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 

NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
Freshman year myths 
This weekend three years ago, I learned all my dorm cheers, played an awkward version of soccer where one of my legs was tied to the leg of a boy from Carroll and sat through a few skits about the hook up culture in college. 
After two days of constant Frosh-O activities, the action subsided into a quiet Monday, the day before classes Madeline started. That Buckley Monday was when 

Managing
the homesickness 
Editor
set in. 
My parents left the previous day, and I had finished unpacking and gone for a run around the lakes. I didn’t know what to do with the rest of the day, and the lack of activity allowed for too much thinking. I missed my friends, family and my house. 
In nearly every orientation activity, administrators, rectors and hall staff stressed that Notre Dame is a family, but I didn’t feel at home in my dorm surrounded by strangers. 
Weeks went by, and every time someone asked me if college was the best time of my life, I nodded with a bright smile. “Yep, college is awe­some,” I always said. 
But the truth was, I didn’t feel at home at Notre Dame until a few months had passed. 
And so with this story, I want to debunk the freshman year myth that every new student is immediately enamored with Notre Dame and no one gets homesick. Chances are, some of your peers that smile and exclaim that Notre Dame is the best thing that ever happened to them are secretly still trying to adjust and find their niche. 
Anyone who had trouble falling asleep the first night in the dorm or thought DomerFest was uncomfort­able to say the least, this column is for you — because it’s just going to get better. 
One thing you can count on during your first month of school is being constantly busy. The weeks flew by, and suddenly, I realized I finally felt at home at Notre Dame. Life in Breen Phillips Hall offered a unique bond­ing experience. 
The girls who I watched a nightly episode of Gilmore Girls with became the people that helped me hobble home with a severely bruised toe one night after I thought it would be a good idea to jump down some porch stairs at a house party (thanks guys), and then they became some of my best friends. 
Through dressing up as ballerinas to play Bookstore Basketball, cele­brating a wonderful 21st birthday Fever-style and thousands of late-night futon talks, I found my Notre Dame family — sorry for the cliché — and you will too. 
Stay busy, meet as many people as you can and study hard but try to relax a little too. Another Notre Dame myth I will try to discredit: that it’s not okay to get a B. Take it from someone who has gotten a few. Although this might not actually be a myth, as I have had several annoy­ingly perfect roommates who have never gotten a B. 
The bottom line is, everything you hear about Notre Dame being an indescribably special place is true. 
For me, it took time to grow into it, to have those experiences that create a bond with a person or a place. And with three years of serious and silly, sometimes angry or tearful talks in a small dorm room with my best friends, I have created a home at Notre Dame, which leads me to my final conclusion that just recently hit me like a bolt of lightning. 
Enjoy it because it will be over in the blink of an eye. 
Madeline Buckley is a senior American Studies and Spanish major with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She is from a Chicago suburb, just like 98 percent of the students you have met so far at various Frosh-O activities, and can be contacted at mbuckley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Sarah Mervosh Douglas Farmer QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Laura McCrystal Molly Sammon Ashley Charnley Scene Graphics Jordan Gamble 
“Next in importance to freedom andjustice is popular education,Blair Chemidlin Adriana Pratt “Education has for its object the without which neither freedom norViewpoint formation of character.” 

justice can be permanently
Michelle Maitz 
maintained.” 
Herbert SpencerEnglish philosopher 
James A. Garfield 20th president of the U.S. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Saturday, August 21, 2010 page 11 
The ultimate thing to remember 
I got into my car a few weeks ago, sunglasses in hand on a beautiful California morning. That day’s commute was about 30 miles — to the beach. But as I shifted into drive, my only thought was how great it would be if I were instead beginning the 2,200-mile journey back to Notre Dame. 
Welcome to a new kind of mindset, where nothing beats the end of summer. 
You’re probably used to cer­tain rituals before the first day of school. You buy the right sup­plies, make sure your uniform still fits, attend a few bonfires. 

Laura Myers 

Then you head to homeroom math and try to remember all Assistant those equations you’d learned Managingthe year before. 
Editor 

This year, it’s best you forget. 
Maybe not the math, but everything else. 
Forget Rudy, the stories your parents or siblings have told you and anything else you may have heard. From DomerFest to finals week and beyond, Notre Dame is a collective experience — you’ll learn that next Saturday — but it is also profoundly individual. Your journey here will not be like anything you’ve seen or heard. Sure, you will forge well-worn paths in your many trips to the Grotto, DeBartolo and the Backer. But there’s a part of those events that are yours, and just yours. 
Forget what you’ve done in the past. Again, not the math. Trust me. But forget your ACT score and your high school GPA. Forget your favorite classes, and how special you may have been in the twelfth grade. You can’t get by with only a name, or a smile or the ability to guess correctly on standard­ized tests. 
Forget your prejudices. The Notre Dame campus still has along way to go on the diversity front, but it does have students of all backgrounds, whose ideas and beliefs may be very different from yours. Maybe you’ve never encountered or consid­ered what some people have to say, but that does­n’t mean you shouldn’t listen. More importantly, it doesn’t mean you shouldn’t think. Not just about what you’ve been told in the past, but about the reasoning behind an issue. This is a challenging place; be ready for it. 
Of course, there are some things you should always remember. 
The first is a bike lock. 
Mine broke once, in my sophomore year. I left my bike outside regardless; and the next morning it was gone. I was already behind on homework and didn’t have the time to go running around campus in my pajamas. But I did anyway. About half an hour into my ultimately fruitless search, I had to stop for a passing tour group in front of the statue of Fr. Sorin on God Quad. The group was a bunch of children on a field trip; I glared at them, annoyed that I couldn’t continue. 
The last two boys in the group were straggling a bit, and as I moved to go around them, one had a question. 
“You go to Notre Dame?” he asked. 
“Yes…” 
“That is so cool.” 
After that I turned around and walked back to Cavanaugh, the search abandoned. That, right there, was the ultimate thing to remember. Even when you’re stressed out studying, don’t achieve a goal or have to endure negative-degree weather. Even when summer ends and you have to pack up all of your stuff and leave home for a year of hard work. 
You go to Notre Dame. That is so cool. 
For reasons she still can’t articulate, Laura Myers is an economics major. She just realized she wrote a column about Notre Dame without explicitly mentioning football or Catholicism, the two most important things on campus (order depends on who you ask). She can be contacted at lmyers2@nd.edu, but only if you need a fourth for a game of euchre. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Steps of Saint Mary’s 
Welcome, Class of 2014, to the greatest you make in the residence halls and place on earth. (Notice there is no bias in classrooms. It will come from your pro-my “voice.”) Okay, so I may be a little fessors as well. While you are on campus, biased. However, I think once you’ve they will learn your name, take an inter-watched your first three years speed by, est in your education, and more than you’ll be envying the 

that, they will work with you to ensure position you are in 
that you are doing your best every day. It now. 
isn’t just a career for them. The profes-Granted, your cur­
sors at Saint Mary’s see you for who you rent perspective 
are, and not just another student who will makes it seems like 
be moving out the door come graduation. getting through the 
A good challenge, good friends and remainder of this 
good professors make Saint Mary’s a good weekend, let alone 
school. In my personal experience 

Ashley 
the academic year, though, it’s the Sisters of the Holy Cross 
Charnley 
will be tricky. I’m that make it an excellent school, and a hoping I’ll be able to college experience you quite literally 
Saint Mary’s 
help break through could not replicate anywhere else. 
Editor
your nervous, appre-During my time here, I have been fortu­hensive point of view nate enough to spend time with the and make you realize you are about to Sisters at the convent. Without those begin some of the best years of your life. Sunday brunches with my favorite women 
So, I’ll do it with an extended metaphor on campus then I am positive my journey that, with any luck, makes sense. up the “stairs” would have been far more 
College is like a giant flight of stairs. overwhelming. (Bear with me, please.) When you are a It has always been a refuge on the days first year at the bottom, you look up the when you simply just need to escape steps and it looks daunting, exhausting everything. On the days when you can’t and almost unattainable to get to the top. do anymore work, you can’t deal with 
There is one piece of optimism, though, anymore drama and you just need to which will help you take that first stride; relax in the company of amazingly it’s only uphill from here. impressive, intelligent women. 
I’ll be the first to admit, that you will It is within this smaller community that get tired as you climb the flight to your the larger community of Saint Mary’s has degree. This fact will never change. What found its heart and purpose. Without the does change as you ascend the steps of Sisters, it would be a pleasant place to higher education here at Saint Mary’s is pass the four years rather than the life-that the first step is the last one you will changing one it is now. ever take alone. So, as the small twinge of doubt starts 
I won’t lie to you and say this will be a to creep up your spine and you hover breeze. No college will ever just let you over that second step that will lead you waltz through it. I can think of a thousand into your first year of college, just remem­positive things to say about Saint Mary’s, ber, this is the only time you’ll move but easy will never be one of those. It’s alone. This is the only choice you’ll make made for young women looking for a without another mind to guide you. It is challenge. also one of the few choices you make that 
As I said, every place of higher educa-I can almost guarantee you will not tion will challenge you mentally in one regret. way or another. What sets Saint Mary’s Take the step. It’s only up from here… apart is the community you encounter as you begin your battle to reach the top. Ashley Charnley is a Communications There will always be days when you Studies and English writing major at reach the landing and want to quit. While Saint Mary’s College. She can be at Saint Mary’s however, there will never contacted at acharn01@saintmarys.edu be a day when you hit that point and have The views expressed in this column are nowhere to turn. those of the author and not necessarily 
This won’t only come from the friends those of The Observer. 
Defining your time here 
About four years ago, when I was here. As the past three years have on one of my many college visits taught me, you don’t need to actu­before my senior year of high ally win many games to make them school, I saw a mother helping her memorable. Home games in the daughter move into her apartment. Notre Dame student section are I overheard the 

really an incredible experience, and mother say 
it’s tough coming to grips with the something like, 
fact that I only have seven left. “I can’t believe 
Probably the best advice I ever this is the last 
got my freshman year was as fol-time I’m going to 
lows: at some point this semester, help you move 
you’re going to be overloaded with into college.” 
work and plan to do some before a As I walked by, football game one Saturday. This is 
Sam Werner 
trying to forget a mistake. It takes virtually super-everything the human abilities to do work on a
Assistant
ultra-perky tour football Saturday, and planning to 
Managing
guide had just do so will only set you further 
Editor
told us, the behind. thought that I could someday be People are going to tell you tons moving into college for the last time of ways to be successful academi­seemed totally incomprehensible. It cally at Notre Dame. But, honestly, was just something that was never if you were smart enough to get in going to happen to me. here, you’re probably smart enough 
In a related story, I moved into to navigate these waters by your-college for the last time this week. self. Funny how things like that work. The one thing I will recommend 
The point of that story is some-in this field is to get to know your thing that will be repeated to you professors. Almost all of them have freshmen about 3.2 million times done something incredible in their over the next week or so: These lives to put them in the position to next four years will go by faster teach at Notre Dame. They will be than you could ever imagine. invaluable contacts once you enter 
Apparently, just because I signed the real world. Even if you don’t up for The Observer at activities need them in that regard, most of night three years ago means I’m them just have really good stories qualified to give advice to the entire to tell. freshman class. I don’t really have Your four years here will go by anything groundbreaking to give faster than any four years in your you, but I’ll do my best to try and life. I know it doesn’t seem like it, say something you haven’t heard but one day you’ll wonder where before. the time went as you move into col-
The best piece of guidance I can lege for the last time. give you is to try and find your niche. Maybe your thing is student Sam Werner is a senior American government, maybe it’s writing for Studies major with a minor in the newspaper (we’d love that). Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. Whatever you enjoy doing, do it. He was also pursuing a pre-med 
As a former — and current — major until this year, when he sports writer, I would be neglectful decided that a future in journalism if I didn’t at least mention football. is much more secure than a career As you may have heard, Notre in medicine. He can be contacted at Dame has a fairly well known foot-swerner@nd.edu ball team. The views expressed in this 
Even if you’re not really a huge column are those of the author and sports fan, football games will at not necessarily those of The least in some way define your time Observer. 
The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Saturday, August 21, 2010 

The Observer 
Scene

Saturday, August 21, 2010 page 13 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Saturday, August 21, 2010 
Notre Dame:Year in Review 
Cross country falls at NCAAs after season-opening wins; men’s golf falls by one stroke in conference championship 
pared yet because of track, but multiple areas in their game, 
Observer Staff Report 

we will be when the time both physical and mental, to Cross Country comes.” focus on improving. 
Although both the men’s and “Our key focus areas, from a women’s cross country teams Men’s Golf physical standpoint, will be con-started out the 2009 season After losing the Big East tour-tinuing to improve our short with back-to-back first places in nament and their bid to com-iron play and, as always, put-their first two meets, the end of pete in the NCAA Tournament ting,” Kubinski said. “From a the season produced different by one shot last season, the mental perspective though, results for the two squads. Irish are working to make sure we’ll be working on making 
The Irish competed in seven they will qualify in 2011. good decisions, improving our meets last fall, including two at “Last season was one of both focus and finishing off rounds. home — the National Catholic great joy, heartbreak and deep The strides we make on the Invitational and the Notre Dame disappointment all wrapped into mental side, will determine how Invitational. The two squads one,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski far we can go.” mirrored each other several said. “We got off to such a good times during the season, finish-start and ended up winning two Women’s Golf ing in first place at the National tournaments on the season, The Irish completed a season Catholic Invitational while something we had not accom-laden with challenges, but falling to sixth at the Big East plished since 2006.” despite the adversity, managed championships. Despite the strong start, the to put together some strong fin-
A first-place finish at the Irish were disappointed at the ishes against top competition. NCAA Great Lakes Regional season’s end for not reaching Notre Dame ultimately finished meet clinched a spot for the their central goal, 17th at the NCAA Central women to race at the NCAA “Losing the Big East by a sin-Region last Saturday, but still Championships, where the Irish gle shot, after battling for three has a season of highlights to finished 23rd out of 31 teams. days, was heartbreaking,” reflect upon. 
“Our goal every year is to get Kubinski said. “We had talented The Irish finished strong in a to the NCAA meet, and from players who worked very hard tough stretch of tournaments that perspective it was definitely over our eight-month season. It during the spring, making the a successful year,” Irish was a tough way to finish.” squad the team to beat entering women’s coach Tim Connolly On top of the pressure associ-the Big East championships. said. “The highlight of last sea-ated with wanting a NCAA qual-Although the Irish would end selected all four years. to put together enough great son was winning the regional ifying spot, five seniors on the up finishing in third place, they Although a sport often times performances in Cincinnati to meet.” 12-man team graduated last still managed to earn an at-dominated by individual honors, squeak by Louisville for the 
Senior Lindsey Ferguson fin-spring. Though this seems like a large bid into the NCAA Central the Irish attempted to focus all win.” ished 30th overall, earning All-tough loss to handle, Kubinski Region competition. of their efforts towards the good Seniors Blake Choplin and Jim American honors. said he feels otherwise. Notre Dame was able to stay of the team. Regardless of indi-Notwell, junior Kevin Labus and 
Including Ferguson, a total of “I think we’ll actually enjoy in contention during the confer-vidual honors, the scores matter sophomore Jack Howard com-five seniors graduated, leaving improved results this season,” ence tournament in large part from every member of the team bined to finish second in the behind quite a legacy for the Kubinski said. “It sounds funny due to excellent play from sen-as they all can contribute to a 4x800-meter relay, and junior underclassmen to carry on. after losing five seniors, nearly ior Annie Brophy. Brophy was winning season. Greg Davis also claimed second Beth Tacl, Molly Sullivan, half our team but I do expect one of the most consistent play-“When it comes to competi-in the hammer throw, with Analisa Sandoval and we’ll be better this season.” ers on the team throughout the tion, the better the individual is sophomore Mitchell Gormley Dominique Taylor moved on The Irish will welcome three season. While at the champi-doing then the better the team behind him in third. from Notre Dame, passing their freshmen to the team, and onships, Brophy finished in sec-is doing,” said Brophy. These performances helped leadership to the four juniors on Kubinski said he expects ond place, just short of her first-Brophy reflected on her con-Notre Dame to a narrow victory the team. prospective starts for each of place finish a year before. tributions from an inexperi-over second-place Louisville by 
“I think that we are all feeling them this season. Sophomore Becca Huffer also enced rookie to a battle-tested a score of 123-114. very excited about the team “[Freshmen] also comprise rose to the occasion to lead the veteran. “With the way our workouts [this] year,” freshman Jessica thirty percent of our roster,” Irish. “There is no other kind of are drawn up, we typically see Rydberg said. “If we are able to Kubinski said. “That’s a big dif-“The two players that have relationship like the one you consistent improvements in race keep everyone healthy ... then ference from last season, when shown up on a consistent basis share with your teammates,” performance throughout,” Clark the outlook for the next cross we had a lone freshman on our are Annie Brophy and Becca Brophy said, “And I consider said. “Individually, winning the country season looks great.” 12 player team. That dynamic Huffer,” Irish coach Susan Holt myself very blessed to have Big East meet was a thrill and a 
A seventh-place finish for the alone, knowing they’re a signifi-said. “They’ve both done their been able to share my experi-sign of good things to come.” men’s squad at the Great Lakes cant part of our team from day part. Becca and Annie have ence here with them.” Clark said he saw much matu-Region was not enough to quali-one, should allow them to feel pulled their share of the ration out of his teammates fy for a spot at the NCAA comfortable and expect to com-weight.” Men’s Track throughout the 2010 campaign, Championships, a meet they pete.” The success began for the When it came to Big East titles his last with the Irish. had been preparing for all sea-The Irish will begin their sea-Irish at the start of the fall sea-this season, Notre Dame “All of the different groups of son. Nevertheless, senior Jake son on Sept. 13 at the College of son, as they had one of their stepped up to the task, winning the team have seen consistent Walker qualified for the individ-Charleston Invitational in best finishes by tying for third at both the indoor and outdoor improvement throughout the ual competition with a ninth-Kiawah Island, S.C., followed by the rain-shortened Bettie Lou championships. year and we’re starting to hit place finish and all-region hon-their highly anticipated home Evans Invitational in Lexington, “This is an extremely impres-peak performances,” Clark said. ors. Walker finished 129th at meet at Notre Dame’s Warren Ky. sive accomplishment because Irish head coach Joe Piane the NCAA meet. Golf Course, the Fighting Irish While at the tournament, jun-the competition within the con-and his staff was named the Big 
Along with Walker, Blake Gridiron Golf Classic, on Sept. ior So-Hyun Park led the Irish ference is very strong and many East coaches of the year for Choplin, Daniel Clark, Cameron 27. with a 1-over 72 on the final athletes are competing at the both the indoor and outdoor Eckert, Jack Howard, James “Whether it’s our first event at day of play, which earned her a national level,” sophomore seasons. Notwell and Brier Steenberge Kiawah Island because that’s share of eighth place for the Kevin Schipper said. The Irish coaching staff, led graduated. where our season begins or our overall individual title. This Heading into the final day of by head coach Joe Piane, was 
The seven seniors led the Irish trip to historic Firestone or to marked the first of many top competition in the outdoor named the Big East’s best for to season opening victories at the beautiful Monterey individual honors for the Irish. championships, Notre Dame both the indoor and outdoor Valparaiso and in the National Peninsula and on through our In a tough conference, the needed first-place finishes from seasons. Catholic Invitational. schedule, each event is a great Irish had three players named both Schipper in the pole vault “We have a solid group of ath­
“It was an average year at opportunity for us and one to to the All-Big East team. and senior Daniel Clark in the letes that are focused on per-best,” Irish men’s coach Joe get excited about,” Kubinski Through their outstanding per-1,500 meters to jump from forming to the best of their abil-Piane said. “We performed pret-said. “They’re all very competi-formance in the regular season, fourth overall into the top posi-ity,” Clark said. “The coaches ty well, especially at the tive fields, offering great tests Brophy, Huffer and junior Katie tion. help push us to maximize our National Catholic meet where for our team.” Conway all proved to be among “We were hoping to win our talent. Winning the Big East we dominated, but beyond that In order to avoid a similar end the best in the conference. third straight outdoor Big East was a culmination of all of the it was somewhat of a disap-to this season as to last, the Brophy became only the second meet. We knew it’d be tough,” hard work individuals have pointing year. We’re not pre-Irish have already identified player in Irish history to be Clark said. “The team was able been putting in.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid.  The charge is 5 cents per character per 
day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Barely used Giant Cypress ST1020 19” women’s silver green bicycle. Paid $500. Asking $275. Call 574­654-3241 ——————————————— 
Guitar-Jeff Hanneman fret electric $300 OBO. Call 574-233-2973. ——————————————— Down duvet comforter with match­ing pillows $50. Call 574-654-3241 

——————————————— 
Part-time photographer, sales asso­ciate for JC Penney Portrait Studio, hours flexible, salary depends on experience. Call Jackie 574-277-5638 or send resume to smp0319@lifetouch.com ——————————————— 
FOR RENT 
4 bedroom 2 bath tri-level in Arlington Heights- 5 minutes from campus 
——————————————— 
DUBS’ INN 
WEEKEND B&B FOR ND GAMES/EVENTS 4 BR HOME SLEEPS UP TO 8 ADULTS. 3 QUEEN, 2 SINGLE BEDS, 4 COUCHES, 3 FULL BATHS. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS FREE MEALS AND SHUTTLE AVAILABLE, NON SMOKING. $800/DAY DUBS RETURNS CALLS (574-210-4030) 
——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
——————————————— Wikipedia is the best thing ever. Anyone in the world can write any­thing they want about any subject. 
So you know you are getting the best possible information. 
——————————————— ——————————————— I don’t get why parents are always complaining about how tough it is to raise kids. You joke around with them, you give them pizza, you give them candy, you let them live their lives. They’re adults for God’s sake. ——————————————— So tell all the English boys you meet, about the American boy back in the states. The American boy you used to date. Who would do anything you say. ——————————————— 

Saturday, August 21, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Clemens indicted for lying about drug use 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — A federal grand jury on Thursday indicted seven-time Cy Young Award win­ner Roger Clemens for allegedly lying to Congress about using steroids and growth hormone. 
Clemens faces charges of obstruction of Congress, making false statements and perjury. 
The six-count grand jury indict­ment said that Clemens obstruct­ed a congressional inquiry with 15 statements that he made under oath, including denials that he had ever used steroids or human growth hormone. The indictment alleged that he lied and commit­ted perjury regarding the same matters. 
The former Major League base­ball pitcher and his former train­er, Brian McNamee, testified under oath at a 2008 hearing before a House committee and contradicted each other about whether Clemens had used the banned substances. 
McNamee has told federal agents, baseball investigator George Mitchell and the commit­tee that he injected Clemens more than a dozen times with steroids and human growth hormone from 1998 to 2001. 
Clemens has maintained that McNamee was lying. 
“As far as we’re concerned, it’s vindication,” Earl Ward, one of McNamee’s attorneys, said of the indictment. 
Clemens’ attorney, Rusty Hardin, said by telephone from Houston that he had just learned of the indictment and would wait to decide whether to comment. 
The case was assigned to U.S. District Judge Reggie Walton, the judge who presided over the per­jury and obstruction trial of Vice President Dick Cheney’s former chief of staff, I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby. No date has been set for Clemens’ initial court appearance. 
In a defiant appearance before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee in 2008, Clemens said, “I’ve been accused of something I’m not guilty of ... I have never taken steroids or HGH.” 
Longtime Clemens friend and New York Yankees pitching star Andy Pettite told congressional investigators that Clemens confid­ed to him that he had used human growth hormone. Clemens said Pettite’s assertion wasn’t correct. 
“I believe Andy has misheard” the conversation, Clemens responded. He said he had simply mentioned to Pettite a TV show about three older men who used HGH to get back their quality of life. 
On Thursday, former Rep. Tom Davis of Virginia, who was the top Republican on the House panel at the time of the baseball star’s tes­timony, called the indictment “a self-inflicted wound” by Clemens. 



Saturday, August 21, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Saturday, August 21, 2010 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish seek perfection again 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Losing six seniors has yet to slow the Irish down as they enter their season with two returning players named to the all-Big East preseason team, a third-place ranking in the Big East preseason poll, and six highly recruited freshmen who have already made headlines in the volley­ball world. 
Just over a week into prac­tice, Irish coach Debbie Brown said she has a strong, positive outlook for the upcoming season. 
“We’re very excited about the new players that we have on our team and think that the returning players are doing a great job,” Brown said. “There are definitely different levels of experience and personalities than before but we’re liking what we’re seeing on the practice court so far.” 
Notre Dame registered a perfect 15-0 record against the Big East in 2009, finish­ing the year 21-7 overall for the team’s 19th winning sea­son, each of which have been under the direction of Brown. Her peers named her the 2009 Big East coach of the year and the AVCA Division I Northeast Region coach of the year for the third time. 
Senior middle blocker Kellie Sciacca and junior outside hitter Kristen Dealy take the reins from their graduated teammates. Both were named to the All-Big East preseason team after their impressive performances on the court last season. Sciacca led the Big East in league play with a .429 hitting percentage in 2009 and was second for the Irish in blocks with a total of 
90. Dealy ended the 2009 season second in kills and points for the Irish. 
Sciacca and Dealy are only two of the top four leaders on this Irish team. Along with senior libero Angela Puente and junior libero Frenchy Silva, Sciacca and Dealy reg­ularly meet with the team’s coaches to discuss the dynamics, goals, strengths and weaknesses of the team. Sciacca and Puente will also be serving as the Irish co-captains this year, though leadership responsibilities fall on all four of the players, as well as other teammates. 
Known to bring in strong recruiting classes in the past, the Irish coaches have done it again as PrepVolleyball.com ranked the six freshman play­ers the 13th-best recruiting class in the nation. The top­15 ranking gave Notre Dame the highest ranking of any Big East member. The six, Maggie Brindock, Samantha Brown, Sammie Brown, Andrea McHugh, Andrea Olsen and Nicole Smith, are a balanced and accomplished group hail­ing from California, New Mexico, Tennessee and Texas. “With freshmen there ’s a newness, an energy, about them, ” Brown said. “They bring lots of enthusiasm to the court, but the returners are doing a great job of that as well.” 

Despite a very different team, Brown and the Irish continue to have many of the same goals as last season — and then some. 
“We want to compete at a high level early and know that’s a challenge. It’s always a goal to win the Big East and we feel a position to chal­lenge for that from our suc­cess last season,” Brown said. “We’re working towards the championship, but not stop­ping there. We want to go to the NCAA Championship Tournament and advance far­ther than last year.” 
More important than titles or trophies to Brown and her coaching staff is seeing the players grow and improve on the court. 
“We’ re working hard to make sure we’re improving and getting better as the year goes on,” she said. “A huge goal is to see marked improvement, individually and collectively as a team.” 
The Irish will start their season at 7:00 p.m. on Aug. 27 when they host Marshall to launch the Shamrock Invitational at Purcell Pavilion with conference play beginning Sept. 24 against West Virginia at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
WAC commissioner takes parting shots 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY — Fresno State and Nevada should not expect any parting gifts from the other members of the Western Athletic Conference when the Bulldogs and Wolf Pack leave for the Mountain West. 
WAC commissioner Karl Benson said on Thursday the departing schools will have to pay $5 million to his league and wait until 2012 to move after accepting the MWC’s invi­tation and dismantling an agreement the WAC was on the verge of completing with BYU. 
The Cougars were in line to rejoin the WAC in all sports other than football, in which BYU would have become an independent. 
Benson called Fresno State and Nevada’s decision “self­ish.” 
“In a 12-hour period, the WAC went from having a secure and prosperous future to once again not knowing what the future will hold,” Benson said in a conference call. 
The WAC had already lost Boise State to the MWC earlier this summer, then on Wednesday both Fresno State and Nevada received and accepted invitations to join the Mountain West—less than a week after WAC members formed a buyout pact intended to keep what was left of the league intact. 
Although Nevada did not actually sign the buyout agree­ment and loyalty pledge, Benson said WAC lawyers believe the Wolf Pack are still subject to the terms of the deal and will seek the money, due 60 days from Wednesday. 
“I recommended (the buyout) to the board. I wish at this time I had made it $20 million,” Benson said. 
And because Fresno State and Nevada didn’t declare they were leaving before July 1, Benson said both are obligated to the WAC until 2012. Letting the schools go in time for next season will be up to the remaining six WAC schools. 
“Only if the WAC believes that it would be in the WAC’s best interest that there would be an early out, would there be an early out,” Benson said. 
In the meantime, the WAC is looking for members once again. Since it formed with six teams in 1962, the WAC expanded to the point of two eight-team divisions in the mid-1990s before eight schools departed and formed the Mountain West in 1999. 
The WAC has managed to persevere through all the turnover, but Wednesday’s departures were a definite set­back, especially if the league and BYU can’t rework their agreement for the Cougars to come back, albeit without foot­ball. 
Benson said the arrangement was for BYU to still play four to six WAC teams per season in football and schedule the remaining openings on its own, taking advantage of the expo­sure on the school’s BYU-TV network. 



Saturday, August 21, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
Saint Mary’s: Year in Review 
Soccer hires new coach; Slupczynski leads volleyball to .500 record; cross country sets sights on conference 
Observer Staff Report 
Soccer 
Thanks to a stroke of luck, the Belles and new head coach Michael Joyce find themselves looking forward to a bounce-back campaign from 2009’s disappoint­ing 4-13-2 mark. 
Joyce, who previously coached at Division III Cornell College in Iowa, had moved to the South Bend area with his wife right as the Belles job was vacated. 
“When I knew our family was moving to Indiana, I started look­ing for local college opportuni­ties,” Joyce said. “The timing was really incredible, I went on the Saint Mary’s website and the job posting for a new head soccer coach had been put up the previ­ous day. 
“My vision for the program is to create a community. We have a lot of players who’ve come through this program and have stayed connected to it, it has meant a lot to them, and they would like to continue to be involved,” Joyce said. “I’d like to enhance that tra­dition and create an environment where the experience of the play­ers here at the school should cre­ate a lifelong bond to the school and the program.” 
Joyce’s quest toward building an MIAA powerhouse will begin with an inexperienced squad that graduated starting goalie and team MVP Patty Duffy, as well as the top three goal scorers from the 2009 squad in Katy Durkin, Colleen Ferguson and Micki Hedinger. 
The goal-scoring load will now fall on younger players, including sophomore Ashley Morfin, whose two goals last year led the team’s freshmen. Morfin and her team­mates will have to grow up quick­ly on a team that features only one senior. 
“We’re in great shape to move our way up the standings in the short run,” Joyce said. “We’ve got a lot of young talent and will only have one senior on a 25 player roster this year. Over the next couple of years, that presents a great opportunity to vault ahead of the competition. 
That being said, we play in a challenging conference and many of the teams are well-run and well-coached; you won’t get any­thing easy in the MIAA.” 
Joyce will begin his inaugural campaign at the helm of the Belles program on Sept. 1 at home against Aurora College. Until then, Joyce’s new leadership has the Belles thinking optimisti­cally about its potential. 
“We’ve got some work to do building up the level of the pro­gram, and a number of small steps we’ll need to take to get there,” Joyce said. “But our No. 1 goal is to win a national champi­onship.” 
Volleyball 
The Belles climbed to a .500 record after battling through the first half of their 2009 conference schedule, but several key injuries led to an eight-match losing streak to end the season with a 9­17 record. 
“[Last] season we were able to play at such a high level with everyone on the court healthy,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “We did not end up in the confer­ence where we would have liked. However, we played well as a team.” 
While the injuries hurt the team’s overall performance, it did afford several players the oppor­tunity to gain experience during a tough 5-11 conference season. 
“We had a lot of players that were able to step out of their com­fort zone and fill big roles on the court when key players were injured,” Kuschel said. “We will be looking for our returners to bring that kind of energy, commit­ment and dedication into next season. I know they are more than up for the challenge.” 
The driving force behind the Saint Mary’s team last year was the strong corps of veteran lead­ership, especially from the sen­iors. 
Senior Lorna Slupczynski was named to the first team all-MIAA squad for the first time. She fin­ished her career with the Belles with three consecutive seasons with 300 kills, finishing with 1,360 kills for her career. She also had three seasons with over 300 digs, and had 1,311 digs in her career. 
This season, Saint Mary’s is healthy and ready to attack the MIAA schedule with a renewed fervor. The Belles return several key players and welcome new additions as well. 
“We will also have a solid group returning,” Kuschel said. “We will be looking for a few key freshmen to add depth and strength to our offense.” 
Cross Country 
Last season brought the Belles a fourth-place finish in their confer­ence and a 17th-place spot among more than 30 teams at NCAA Division III regionals. A season highlight came with a second-place finish at the 6K Manchester Invitational, where they edged out Calvin College by a mere two points. Satisifed with those results, the Belles hope to do even better this year. 
“I would love for us to break into the top 15 at regionals again and to get third in the confer­ence,” senior Clare McVey said. “We have the ability to do it, it’s just a matter of actually doing it.” 
Expected to continue her suc­cess this year is sophomore Julia Kenney, who, as a freshman, fin­ished first for the Belles in four races. The Belles anticipate junior Joanne Almond and seniors McVey and Catie Salyer to act as additional leaders throughout the season, after all three of them fin­ished in the top five at multiple meets last season. The team as a whole strives for progression from meet to meet, and especially looks to advance during the summer transition period. 
“Each season we do better than the previous and it’s becoming a pretty obvious trend with our team finishes,” McVey said. 
The Belles begin their season Sept. 1 at home, when they will take on Goshen. 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Saturday, August 21, 2010 
looked at her in both spots in the preaseason, so I’m sure 
Waldrum 
continued from page 24 
season and earned Big East midfielder of the year honors in 2009. “I think that we 

saw really the been one of 
“I really like the team to
coming out last the nation’s year of a player get tested and fnd out top offensive like Courtney where we are early in players dur-B a r g , ” ing her first 
the year. The one thing I 
Waldrum said. two seasons, “She’s a really always worry about is while junior 
key player for playing too light of a counterpart us.” Jess
schedule.” 
Flanking Schuveiller Barg at mid -is expected field will be Randy Waldrum to lead the seniors Rose Irish coach back four on Augustin and defense L a u r e n once again. Fowlkes, who split time last Notre Dame has always season between the midfield played a tough non-confer­and backline. ence schedule, and this year’s 
“Lauren Fowlkes I think is slate is no different, as the one of those key players that Irish will play No. 3 UCLA and would play up front last year No. 9 Santa Clara during their and as a defender,” Waldrum first five games. Despite the said. “I’m not quite sure hon-daunting challenge, estly what we’re going to do Waldrum’s experience proves with her this year. We’ve that his team needs to face a challenging slate to set the tone for the season. 
“It definitely sets the tone, and that’s why I’ve always liked to play good teams early in our non-conference sched­ule,” Waldrum said. “I really like the team to get tested and find out where we are early in the year. The one thing I always worry about is playing too light of a schedule and thinking we’re better than we really are and getting into the late part of the year into a tough stretch and not being ready for it. 
“Certainly on the road at UCLA, anytime you go west with the time change and the travel and playing a good team is always going to be a challenge for you, and UCLA has certainly had as much of an impact on the soccer world that we’ve had, especially in the last six to eight years, and that’s going to be a good test.” 
The Irish began their season Friday against Minnesota at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

NCAA 
continued from page 24 
Princeton by the score of 8-5 and then avenged last season-ending defeat by topping No. 3-seeded Maryland by the count of 7-5. In Final Four in Baltimore, the Irish downed No. 7 Cornell to earn the right to face the No. 5 Blue Devils for the tournament crown. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan was pleasantly surprised by the reversal of fortunes from the 2009 season. 
“A year ago we were unde­feated going into the tourna­ment and thought that was going to be our fate; we played a really poor game against Maryland and were out before we got started,” he said. “This year, it was kind of the opposite: a crazy, up-and-down year, but couldn’t have played better through the last four games of the season in the tournament.” 
The Irish focused on defense throughout the tour-
Aoki 
continued from page 24 
sonnel can bring the program back to excellence. 
“It’s a situation where we’re going to have to change the culture and change the mind­set a little bit,” Aoki said. “And obviously get talented kids in there and hopefully get back to the point where we’re winning Big East champi­onships and competing in the NCAA Tournament, and get­ting to Omaha.” 
Despite a losing record, Schrage’s final season still had several highlights, both team and individual. 
The Irish opened the season with a three-game road sweep of Mississippi Valley State, including a 19-3 rout in the final game of the series, the first in program history. In addition, the squad posted a 9-3 record during a 12-game stretch in the heart of the conference season, securing series victories over Big East foes Seton Hall and Cincinnati. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cma­soud@nd.edu 
we’ll play her a little bit in both places until we settle in on a plan.” 
Leading the Irish up front 
will be junior Melissa Henderson, who has 
ney, preferring to slow the tempo of the game and limit their opponent’s time of pos­session. Facing an explosive offensive Blue Devil duo in Ned Crotty and Max Quinzani, Notre Dame again slowed the pace of the game, leading to the lowest-scoring final in NCAA history. With the score tied at 4 entering the fourth quarter, the Irish took the lead on a goal from sopho­more Sean Rogers that was answered by the Blue Devils barely three minutes later, sending the tense contest into a sudden -death overtime. Duke’s CJ Costabile won the extra period’s opening face-off, sprinted down the field, and rifled a shot past Rodgers to give the Blue Devils the championship merely five seconds after the ball had dropped in overtime. The lightning-quick ending came as a stunning blow to the Irish, who had relied on their defense throughout the tour­nament. 
“Everybody was crushed because you don’t get that far and want anything but the goalie’s ever played in the championship, ” Corrigan NCAA tournament”; senior said. “You know when you go midfielder Zach Brenneman to overtime, that’s how the and senior defenseman Kevin game’s going to end — in the Ridgway were both named to blink of an the all-tour­eye.” nament 
Despit e team. the heart -Corrig an
“Everybody was crushed
breaki ng also singled loss, the because you don’t get that out senior Irish came far and want anything but midfielder away with David Earl 
the championship. You know 
a recogni -for out ­tion that when it’s going to overtime, standi ng they, that’s how the game’s going play, despite though the 
to end — in the blink of an
being a coach said 
eye.” 
mid west the team’s school in a Cinderella sport domi-Kevin Corrigan run was a nated by team effort. 
Irish coach 
east coast “ W e powers, played as a could com-whole pete for a team, ” he national championship as said. “We made really, really Corrigan has long believed. In good decisions down the addition, Rodgers was voted stretch and played to our the tournament’s Most strengths as well as we have Outstanding Player in recog-in a long time.” nition of goalie play that After the tournament, the Corrigan called “the best any Irish took a team trip to Japan to scrimmage the Japanese national team, which Corrigan considered a fantastic experience for his players. 
“It was a chance for every­body to stay together,” he said. “It was a great trip in a beautiful country, and we couldn’t have been treated better by our hosts. Our guys had just a really neat experi­ence.” 
Despite losing one player at every position, including Rodgers, who is now playing in Major League Lacrosse, Corrigan said his team has what it takes to pull off another run at the national championship. 
“I think we start over and see if we can’t take all the pieces that we do have back and add the new guys and see if we can’t put together another run,” he said. “I don’t see any reason why we could-n’t — we’ll certainly have enough ability.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Saturday, August 21, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Three touted freshmen bring high hopes for ND 
kind of the general on the floor.” 
Six more monogram-winners return for the Irish, including senior guard Brittany Mallory and senior forward Devereax Peters. Both have two years of eligibility left, making Bruzsewski the only true sen­ior, but all three will take on leadership roles this year. 
“The three seniors will be the ones we’ll look to set the tone and attitude for how we’re going to play this year,” McGraw said. 
The team will be challenged from the beginning of the sea­son, with non -conference games scheduled at Kentucky, which finished 2009-10 ranked No. 19, and at Baylor, which finished at No. 14. Much of the non-conference schedule is yet to be announced. 
“I think we’re going to learn what our strength and weak­nesses are pretty early in the season,” McGraw said. “... We may find out more than we want to know.” 
The tough non-conference schedule will help to prepare the team for the Big East sea­son, McGraw said. The Big East had five teams finish in the AP top 25 last season, and accounted for all four of Notre Dame’s regular-season losses. 
The Irish will face No. 1 Connecticut, the 2009-10 NCAA Champions, twice in the regular season. The two teams squared off three times in 2010, twice in the regular sea-

By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
A freshman made a big impact on a veteran Irish team in 2009. This year, freshmen will take on a vital role follow­ing the departure of five sen­iors. 
Notre Dame brought in a recruiting class ranked No. 8 by ESPN Hoopgurlz. Incoming freshmen Kayla McBride and Natalie Achonwa spent their respective summers with the American fill the void left by the five graduated seniors, including all three captains. 
“We’re going to be fairly inexperienced,” McGraw said. “I think that we lost some great leaders. They were just very mature and responsible people. They were great in the classroom, great off the court, great on the court.” 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins and senior forward Becca Bruszewski are the only remaining starters from a 
and Canadian 

“The three seniors will 
under-18 

be the ones we’ll look to
national teams, while incoming set the tone and forward Ariel 
attitude for how we’re 
Braker was 

going to play this year.” 
able to take summer class­es and bond Muffet McGraw with the team 
Irish coach 
at Notre Dame. 
McBride, a guard, helped her team to a gold medal in the America’s Championship in Colorado Springs, Colo., in June. 
“She had a fantastic sum­mer,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “Started and won the gold medal. The coaches just raved about what a very coachable, hardwork­ing, competitive player she is and just couldn’t say enough good things about her, so we were really happy.” 
The new players will help to Notre Dame team that made its eighth Sweet 16 appearance in 14 years and finished with a 29-6 record and a No. 7 AP rank­ing. 
Diggins, who led the team in points (13.9), steals (2.6) and assists 
(3.2) per game 
and earned honorable mention All-America honors as a fresh­man in 2009-10, will have an even bigger role this year, McGraw said. Former captain Melissa Lechlitner directed last year’s team, and the point guard duties will now fall to Diggins. 
“It’s a whole new role for her,” McGraw said. “Last year, [Lechlitner] really ran the team. Without her, we’ll look for Skylar to step in and be son and once in the semifinals of the Big East championship. Connecticut, which has won a record 78 consecutive games, took all three contests. 
“We like the challenge of playing the best teams,” McGraw said. 
Although the season is still months away, the Irish have already picked up accolades. 
On July 10, it was announced that McGraw was 
Clark 
continued from page 24 
championship, the tournament championship, and a national championship. 
“The goals are always the same,” Clark said. “I always say we want to be the best team in the country, and that means play­ing to our potential. The Big East is a very strong conference, but I also feel that it’s well within our grasp to be a champion in the regular season. I think the goals are very difficult goals to get, but you have to have that goal at the start. A lot of teams are excited at this time, but the key is to be excited after.” 
Among the returning players from last year’s squad, senior for­ward Jeb Brovsky is the only player to have recorded double-digit points last season. He fin­ished the season with four goals and four assists for a total of 12 points. 
“[Brovsky] is a fantastic player, so [being the offensive leader] goes without saying,” Clark said. “We lost four players to the pros last year after graduation, so we lost some very strong players, but last year we had to deal with quite a few injuries. So hopefully we can stay healthy. A lot of peo­ple can score, and [Brovsky] is certainly one of them. Obviously you miss players, but I think there will be players that can step up. I think that’s the challenge.” 
Junior defenseman Aaron Maund will also need to make a big contribution for the Irish this season. Despite missing five games while playing for the U.S. under-20 national team, Maund recorded the sixth most minutes last season and started all 18 games that he was available. 
selected to the Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame and will be inducted at a ceremony in Knoxville, Tenn., in June 2011. 
Diggins was named to the watch list for the Wade Trophy, which is given to the Div. I player of the year, on Aug. 4. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Sophomore midfielder Dillon Powers also played on the under­20 World Cup team. 
Senior defenseman Greg Klazura has impressed Clark in preseason workouts. 
“The one player who has been tremendously exciting… is Greg Klazura,” Clark said. “It’s funny because when we were in Sweden and playing professional clubs, all the pro clubs wanted to know who our left back was. He can play left back and right back, and you’re looking for these guys to start stepping up.” 
Senior goalkeeper Philip Tuttle started 11 of 23 games last sea­son in goal, and was the consen­sus No. 1 keeper this year for the Irish before tearing his meniscus during the offseason. In 13 appearances last season, Tuttle gave up only 9 goals and made 21 saves, recording a team-high five shutouts. 
“Tuttle was pretty well going to go the whole way, but he was training with the San Jose Earthquakes and tore his menis­cus, and had surgery, so he’s going to be out for the first part of the season for sure,” Clark said. “It’s really tough, because he was playing so well. That opens the door for [junior] Will Walsh, and he’s been waiting in the wings. This is his opportunity, and he’s a good goalkeeper. Willie will cer­tainly get the chance.” 
The Irish will kickoff the pre­season with an exhibition game against the University of Illinois-Chicago in a game that will bene­fit Grassroot Soccer, an organiza­tion that benefits AIDS awareness in Africa. The game will be played Monday at Alumni Field, with a $1 donation requested to help support Grassroot Soccer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 21, 2010 Saturday, August 21, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 23 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Five seniors lead Irish in post-Harangody era 
3-point shooters last year, as each shot better than 40 per­cent from beyond the arc. 
Senior forward Tyrone Nash started every game last year, and fellow senior forward Carleton Scott’s energy and athleticism gave the Irish a lift when he was inserted into the starting lineup late last season. 
Brey also has high hopes for senior forward Scott Martin, who transferred from Purdue and was eligible to play last year before suffering a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in October. Martin sat out the 2008-09 season due to NCAA transfer regulations, but despite not playing in two years, Brey said Martin could be a differ­ence-maker. 
“He needs to put a jersey on,” Brey said. “He wants it … And there is plenty of time to do it because he’s really hungry.” 
The Irish will certainly be a different team without Jackson and Harangody, but Brey said he sees a core group with the potential for success. 
“So this nucleus is good with the ball, including the big guys,” Brey said. “That’s the way we play, it’s the style we ’ve established. But to have that one guy that can initiate the offense, that’s something that we’ll have to develop.” 
That’s the role Jackson filled for four years, and Brey said Jackson’s experience will be a challenge to replace. 

“He played the position longer than anybody in our program,” Brey said. “That is a position that’s a unique position. I played it, so I can relate to it. You just don’t groom one of those guys.” 
For the Irish, that guy could turn out to be freshman guard Eric Atkins. The former Mount Saint Joseph star out of Columbia, Md., is the heir apparent to the graduated Jackson, and Brey said he’ll have a chance to start as a freshman, as Jackson did four years ago. 
“I think one of the reasons he came to Notre Dame was because the opportunity [to start] would present itself. We talked about that, with Tory Jackson walking out the door,” Brey said. “I think he is a kid that we want to really look at, early in the season and number one, get him stronger.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
Heading into last season, a major storyline for the Irish was the farewell tour of for­ward Luke Harangody and point guard Tory Jackson, the leaders of the winningest class in program history. 
It may not be as easy to attach an identity to this team just yet, but with the return 
of several starters and earlier in the summer. “I’ve been here a long time and that was a unique dynamic — all of a sudden, playing dif­ferently down the stretch.” 
Whether that becomes the new norm for the Irish remains to be seen, but Brey said he hopes to mix elements of the old and new, the fast and slow, to keep opponents guessing. 
“Throughout a game, can we do that? Can we change a 
gear, coming 
out of a media 

k e y r e ser ves , and the antici­p a t e d d e b u t s  “So this nucleus is good with the ball, including  t i m e o u t a n d play a certain w a y f o r f o u r  
o f a t r a n s f e r and a few key freshmen, the 2010-11 Irish  the big guys. That’s the way we play, it’s the style we’ve  m i n u t e s ? ” Brey said. “All things I think we can do and  
could surprise  established.”  I ’ d  l i k e  t o  
some people.  explore.  
D e s p i t e k n o w n c o m -m o d i t i e s l i k e  Mike Brey Irish coach  “ There ’s no question that we have guys  
H a r a n g o d y  t h a t  c a n  g e t  
a n d  J a c k s o n  u p a n d d o w n  

leading the way for most of the court. We want to be able last season, surprise, in the to do that and I think we have form of a revamped “slow to start off doing that. But burn” offense, turned out to being able to change tempo be a key weapon for Notre and change gears I think is Dame down the stretch last something we have to do year. When Irish coach Mike throughout a game and Brey made the decision late throughout a season.” in the Big East season to slow The Irish return their sec-down his typically up-tempo ond-and third-leading scor­
offensive style, it caught ers in senior forward Tim Notre Dame’s opponents off Abromaitis and senior guard guard and propelled the Irish Ben Hansbrough, who aver-into the NCAA Tournament. aged 16 and 12 points per 
“It came at a good time for game, respectively. us. It was tricky for our oppo-Abromaitis and Hansbrough nents,” Brey told reporters were Notre Dame’s two best 
Kelly 
continued from page 24 
but has moved to wide receiv­er for the upcoming season. Despite the position change, Crist said he was excited about Riddick’s potential. 
“I think Theo has a chance to be an incredibly explosive player and one of the nations best,” Crist said. “He’s incredibly explo­sive in all facets of his game and I think if he continues to execute as he’s been executing thus far in camp he’ll be a very special player for us this year.” 
Riddick will be lining up oppo­site junior wide receiver Michael Floyd. Floyd, a preseason All-American, finished second on the team last year in both receiv­ing yards and receiving touch­downs despite missing five games due to injury. Kelly said that Floyd at times relied too much on his size and athleti­cism, but has shown a strong work ethic in fall camp. 
“I thought Michael Floyd was overhyped,” Kelly said. “I thought he was at times aver­age. But in 20 years, I have not had a player who has worked as hard as Michael Floyd has worked. And I mean that.” 
Change is also coming for the Irish on the defensive side of the ball, where they are moving to a 3-4 system as opposed to last year’s 4-3. Along the defensive line, juniors Ethan Johnson and Kapron Lewis-Moore have emerged as the starting ends, with senior Ian Williams as the man in the middle. Defensive line coach Mike Elston said that, as a nose guard, Williams was especially critical to the Irish defense. 
“The nose tackle is the middle of the defense and everything is built around him,” Elston said. “If he has the ability to smash the center and get off the block and make the tackle as well as keeping the center from climb­ing to the backers, that is going to be the critical part for him.” 
While the starters at defensive line seem fairly settled, the line­backer position is in constant flux. 
Sophomore Manti Te’o and junior Darius Fleming appear to have a solid grip on starting roles, but senior Brian Smith, senior Kerry Neal, junior Steve Filer, junior Anthony McDonald and sophomore Carlo Calabrese are battling for the other two spots. 
Kelly said that Te’o has taken on a leadership role on the defense, and at media day Tuesday, the sophomore line­backer sounded more like a fifth-year senior. 
“I just want to help my team in any way I can,” Te’o said. “I just want to help them win and prove to my coaches, more specifically, my teammates that you can trust me, you can count on me to be there when times get hard.” 
At the end of the day, Te’o said, the ultimate goal of the 2010 Notre Dame football team will be representing Notre Dame in a positive, and winning, way. 
“Coach Kelly has really demonstrated to us and taught us as players that we owe Notre Dame. Notre Dame has done so much for us, provided us with an education, provided us with friends, with great coaching, and we owe them. We have a great tradition here and the least we can do is go out there every day and give it our all.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Sports 

Saturday, August 21, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Here comes the change 
A different Irish team enters the 2010 season ready to win 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
The players will still be wear­ing gold helmets, the end zones will still have diagonal stripes and Tim McCarthy will still start off each fourth quarter with an awesomely bad pun. 
At the same time, the team that takes the field Sept. 4 against Purdue will have a new head coach, a new quarterback, a new offensive system and even new uniforms. 
New head coach Brian Kelly has brought in several changes since taking the helm in December. On offense, Kelly has been working tirelessly to install his spread offense, which is a stark change from former coach Charlie Weis’ pro-style attack. 
The man charged with run­ning this new offensive attack is junior quarterback Dayne Crist. Crist saw action in several games last year, but suffered a season-ending ACL injury against Washington State. He said the knee is healed and he’s excited to lead the new-look Irish offense. 
“The spread is just something that really makes defenses, like it says, spread out,” Crist said. “And it just creates a lot of space and matchups that we like to exploit.” 
Kelly has seemed especially confident with Notre Dame’s rushing attack. Senior running back Armando Allen has sepa­rated himself as the starter, but senior Robert Hughes, junior Jonas Gray and sophomore Cierre Wood will also see the field. 
“I would be very surprised if we were not a solid team run­ning the football,” Kelly said. 
see KELLY/page 23 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer Junior quarterback Dayne Crist practices, without a knee brace on his surgically-repaired knee, Thursday afternoon. 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish coach reloads, not rebuilds 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
After finishing as Big East runner-up and a second-round exit from the NCAA tournament, and despite the loss of four top players to the profes­sional level, Irish coach Bobby Clark refuses to see the upcoming season as one in need of rebuilding. 
“I never look at rebuilding years,” Clark said. “I always look to reload. If we do our jobs correctly here, then we should be in a position that play­ers are going to step up. I think every year we’ve kept very competi­tive, and I’m excited about what this group has shown so far.” 
Clark said that the goals remain the same as every year: to compete for the Big East regular season 
see CLARK/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Swarbrick taps Aoki to replace Schrage after rough season 
letics Jack Swarbrick said in a June 14 press confer-College to its second consecu-Dame is clearly a university 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
announced his decision not to ence. “Like Dave and his staff tive ACC tournament berth in that expects to excel at every-
Sports Writer 
retain Schrage in mid-June and his players, we all would his fourth year at the helm of thing that they do, whether it’s 
after the Irish failed to qualify have liked to have enjoyed the Eagles. The Massachusetts academia, or athletics, or 

A disappointing 22-32 over-for the Big East more success, but it certainly native brings an overall community service.” all record in the 2010 season Championships for the first wasn’t for lack of effort or Division I record of 201-248-1 Accustomed to the chal­led to the end of Dave time in 15 years. Schrage commitment.” (.448), which includes a five-lenges of winning in a cold­Schrage’s four years at the top compiled a 119-104-1 record A full month after Schrage’s year stint at Columbia. weather environment, recruit-of the Notre Dame baseball during his tenure, including a departure, Swarbrick “I think the expectations are ing at an elite academic insti­program. 36-win season in 2009. announced the hiring of Mik high at Notre Dame, obvious-tution, and player develop-
The Irish lost 10 of their “I appreciate all the contri-Aoki as the new head coach. ly,” Aoki said. “The trip to ment, Aoki believes a change final 12 games and posted a butions Dave has made over Aoki, the 20th coach in pro-Omaha in 2002 certainly in attitude and the right per­10-17 record in the Big East. the past four seasons to Notre gram history, comes to Notre raised the bar, and you couple 
Notre Dame director of ath-Dame baseball,” Swarbrick Dame after leading Boston that with the fact with Notre see AOKI/page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish fall in title game OT 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Competing for the pro ­gram’s first national champi­onship, the Irish fell to Duke in heartbreaking fashion before a crowd of 37,126 in Baltimore’s M&T Bank Stadium in May. 
Led by the red-hot play of goalie Scott Rodgers, compet­ing for the last time in an Irish uniform just weeks after his graduation, Notre Dame surprised many by shrugging off an inconsistent regular season and smothering its opponents on its way to the title game, only to lose the championship five seconds into overtime. 
Considered by many to be the “last team in ” to the NCAA tournament, the unseeded Irish opened the tournament by toppling No. 6 
see NCAA/page 20 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Near perfection inspires team for new season 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
While a new season may be underway, it’s the same famil­iar story for No. 4 Notre Dame. 
The Irish, who have made seven of the past 11 College Cup semifinals, once again enter the season with nation­al title aspirations following a bitter season-ending defeat from rival North Carolina, as Tar Heels midfielder Casey Nogueira notched the game winning tally in the final ten minutes of play in both the 2008 National Championship game and 2009’s semifinal. 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, Nogueira has graduated and the Irish return many key contributors from last year’s team, something that coach Randy Waldrum said has his team primed for yet another run at a national title. 
“I think that the good thing about it is that we’ve kind of had a history of getting there,” Waldrum said. “We’ve been there I think four years in a row and seven out of the 11 that I’ve been here, so I think the good thing is that when you go that regularly, the players kind of under­stand what it takes to get there in terms of the training and the work that they have to put in. I think they get that part of it.” 
Waldrum said the Irish have a number of core players who will play a key role in helping Notre Dame return to the peak of college soccer this season, led by junior mid­fielder Courtney Barg, who registered an All-American 
see WALDRUM/page 19 





