the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 

Faculty and students reflect on clerical sexual abuse scandals 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY and 
SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writers 
Since sexual abuse scandals within the Catholic Church were brought to the public eye, it has been more difficult for Fr. Kevin Russeau, director of Old College, to go out in public. 
“Most places I go I’m dressed in a robe and collar. People know I’m a priest,” Russeau said. “You kind of have a sense that people are watching you differently. 
“You get this sense that maybe you’re doing something wrong even if you are just buy­ing a gallon of milk for dinner.” 
The scandal exploded in the United States between 2001­2003, largely propelled by The Boston Globe, whose reporting on the subject earned the paper a Pulitzer Prize. 
Lawrence Cunningham, a theology professor and former head of the department, said the “big story” was that Church officials hid signs of abuse for years. 
“Bishops would hear about these situations and remove 
see FACULTY/page 8 



The Church’s Crisis 

Notre Dame’s past shows University not immune to problems 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame was once at the center of the national priest abuse scandals. 
Fr. James Burtchaell, former­ly a professor of theology and provost, on resigned his profes­sorship on Dec. 2, 1991, in the wake of sexual misconduct charges, The Observer report­ed. 
“At the request of the University, he agreed in April 1991 to resign from the faculty at the end of his current sab­batical leave in the summer of 1992,” Fr. Carl Ebey, former provincial superior of the Congregation of the Holy Cross said in a statement reported in the Dec. 3, 1991, issue of The New York Times. 
One of Burtchaell’s alleged victims, John Michael Vore, said the priest was his spiritual advisor, The Observer reported in its Dec. 9, 1991, issue. 
“I experienced a violation when I was with him — a viola­tion of trust, of the confidence I had in him,” Vore said at the time. 

see UNIVERSITY/page 9 



21st annual Shirt revealed 
By TONY RIVERA 
News Writer 
As the veil from the top of Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore fell Friday afternoon to reveal the new design for the 2010 Shirt Project, head foot­ball coach Brian Kelly stood in front of the large crowd of stu­dents with one message to give: 
“We are the Fighting Irish!” 
As the crowd cheered back, this classic football phrase was now the theme to the 21st­Anniversary edition of The Shirt Project. 

With a kelly green backdrop, the phrase is featured on The Shirt’s front in blue letters while an image of Notre Dame Stadium’s student section is shown on the back. “Rally sons of Notre Dame,” the opening line of the Notre Dame fight song, is written above the image. Underneath the image is the song’s final phrase, “Onward to victory.” PAT COVENEY/The Observer 


Irish coach Brian Kelly speaks to the crowd at The Shirt see SHIRT/page 6 unveiling at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Friday. 


ND water initiative ends with showing 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
With this Saturday’s showing of the documentary film “One Water,” student government’s Global Water Initiative culmi­nated a year-long series of events and fundraisers aimed towards addressing the world’s clean water crisis. 
According to the Global Water Initiative’s final report, 2.5 bil­lion people all over the world live without adequate sanita­tion. In addition, one in six per­sons on earth lives without access to potable water. 
Former student body vice president Cynthia Weber believes the project achieved a lot in its year of existence. 
“I think that it was successful on two fronts: raising aware­ness on a fixable issue some­where else in the world and also using Notre Dame resources to do so,” she said. “Not only was it our goal to help fix wells, but also to edu­cate the campus.” 
Throughout the course of the year, various service organiza­tions have put on a number of events to both raise awareness of the issue and collect funds to be donated to the non-profit Water Project, the partner organization to Notre Dame’s Global Water Initiative. In total, at least $4,464 will be donated to the Water Project, which pro­vides sustainable, safe water by fixing broken wells in the African nation of Sierra Leone. 
Rachel Roseberry, co-director of the Global Water Initiative along with Justin Pham, said that the program, the first of its kind for Notre Dame, was a great achievement for the cam­pus. 
“I think that it is important 
see WATER/page 9 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College Donor Recognition Weekend page 3  Scene year in review page 12  Blue-Gold Game wrap-up 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, April 26, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Status updates 101 
As a second-semester senior, I spend a lot of time surfing Facebook as I attempt to put off what little work my senioritis­friendly schedule gives me. My all-time favorite Facebook activity is looking at people’s photo albums — even peo­ple I haven’t spoken to since freshman year, high school or even never. 
My other favorite thing to do is read status updates. It’s like listening to your friends talk about Irena Zajickova their lives without 

News Writer 
actually wasting time talking to them. What could be better? 

Unfortunately, while photo stalking is pretty much always amusing, the news feed or “recently updated statuses” link is full of pitfalls. 
Some people overshare, others post obnoxious song lyrics, and still others talk about subjects so boring that if they tried to tell me about it in person I’d probably just walk away. 
To help out the status-challenged, I’ve compiled a handy list of dos and don’ts. 
Do: Update your status if something really exciting happens. If you got a job or got into law school, by all means, tell all of Facebook. Especially if you’re like me and no one thought you’d be able to find a future. What better way to prove all the haters wrong than through your Facebook status? 
Don’t: Update your status with endless detailed lists of the papers and projects you’re saddled with. I’m pretty sure that everyone else here has a similar work­load. Also, I’m pretty sure that if you were really as busy as your status claimed, you’d drop dead of exhaustion. 
Do: Keep your status short. If I wanted to read a novel, I wouldn’t be on Facebook. 
Don’t: Write about how you’re having the worst day ever. There’s a 99 percent chance you’re not, and if you’re in that one percent that actually is having a truly horrible day, you should probably get off Facebook and start trying to fix your life. 
Do: Post witty quotes from TV shows and/or movies. It’s a nice break from the endless lists of projects and papers every­one else is status-updating about, and your friends will have fun commenting with other quotes from the same movie or show, so you’ll have the added bonus of looking like you’re really popular. 
Don’t: Post overly dramatic statuses that sound like a 13-year-old girl wrote them. I don’t care about how you’re never going to find love or how [insert name here] is the best boyfriend in the world. Doing this will just make me want to defriend and/or punch you. This is doubly true if the status has heart icons in it or is written with poor spelling or CaPiTaLiZaTiOn LiKe tHiS. 
I thought of a few more guidelines, but I’ve already exceeded the word limit for Inside Columns, and I don’t think tonight’s production team will be too enthusiastic to reformat all of Page 2 just so I can discuss Facebook etiquette. I hope this helps. 
Now if you’ll excuse me, I have 10 papers, two presentations and three tests tomorrow, so I’m clearly having the worst day ever! I have to go study! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT DO YOU  OPE TO DO BEFORE T E END OF T E YEAR? 









Michelle DeLaCruz  Erika Hansen  John Frantz  Justin Schneider  Bridgid Hurley  Steve Conway  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  junior  freshman  freshman  
Howard  McGlinn  Dillon  Stanford  McCandless  Stanford  
“Finish my  “Use up all my  “Study for my  “Win Bookstore  “Swimming in  “Streaking.”  
20-page paper.”  Flex Points.”  finals.”  Basketball.”  the Notre Dame  

fountain.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Members of the winning “Alexander’s Grill” team pose with a banner following the conclusion of the championship of the Bookstore Basketball 2010 tournament Sunday. 
OFFBEAT 
Vermont farmer finds stolen 116-pound tortoise 
ALBANY, Vt. — A 116­pound African tortoise has returned home after being stolen from its enclosure on a Vermont farm. 
The 20-year-old tortoise vanished April 11 from Peter Lowry’s barn in Albany. It was located after a call Thursday from a woman who said she knew where the tortoise was. 
Lowry says the woman led him to a Craftsbury mobile home where the tortoise was being kept by a man who’d been asked by a teenage boy to watch it. The man didn’t know the tortoise was stolen. 

Lowry says he and police know who took the animal. But no one has been charged. 
The farmer plans to install surveillance cameras in the barn where the tortoise’s pen is located. 
Lowry, who also keeps macaws, cockatoos and snakes, calls the tortoise’s saga “a very odd tale with a very happy ending.” 
Fraudulent Beatle arrested following TV appearance 
SAN DIEGO — It’s going to be a hard day’s night in jail for a Beatles impersonator after police arrested him on an old warrant outside an appearance on a San Diego morning news show. 
Carlsbad police Lt. Marc Reno says Theodore “Ted” Felicetti was arrested Friday on an outstanding warrant for failure to appear on a drunken driv­ing charge in December, 2008. Felicetti plays Paul McCartney in the Beatles tribute band “Help!”. 
Investigators received tips that Felicetti played in the band, then learned on the group’s Facebook page that they would be appearing on the morning news show. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Tuesday wednesday 

IN BRIEF 
A session of “Peace of Mind: The Art of Mindful Relaxation” will take place today at 12 p.m. in the third-floor conference room of St. Liam Hall. 
Notre Dame’s Army ROTC and the American Red Cross are sponsoring a blood drive, taking place today and Tuesday from 1 
p.m. to 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
A lecture titled “Imaginary Communities: Indians and Campesinos in Mexican Social Thought” will take place Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. in room C­103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
A seminar titled “Building Small Metal Clusters on Oxide Surfaces with Organometallics: The Beginnings of a Story” will begin at 3:30 p.m. Tuesday in 131 DeBartolo Hall. 
The seminar “Multiscale Modeling of Fracture in Metals” will take place Tuesday at 3:30 
p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will face Toledo on Tuesday night at 6:05 p.m. in Frank Eck Stadium. Adult admission is $5. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Bands and New Orleans Brass Band will give a concert on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Admission is free but tickets must be reserved. 
Danielle Rose will give a con­cert Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. in the Cavanaugh Hall Chapel. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

thursday friday 

Atlanta 67 / 51 Boston 52 / 45 Chicago 61 / 40 Denver 52 / 38 Houston 87 / 60 Los Angeles 75 / 56 Minneapolis 65 / 39 New York 55 / 48 Philadelphia 60 / 49 Phoenix 93 / 69 Seattle 63 / 50 St. Louis 66 / 47 Tampa 83 / 67 Washington 69 / 54 
Monday, April 26, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




SMC donors spend time on campus 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
In honor of the funds con­tributed to Saint Mary’s College through charitable donations, donors were invited to campus Friday and Saturday during Donor Recognition Weekend. 
Throughout the weekend, donors were able to experi­ence life at Saint Mary’s to see firsthand what impact their contributions made to the College. The weekend also impacted students, sophomore Julia Humphrey said. 
“Spending time with [donors] Sally and Andrea really showed me the importance of Donor Recognition Weekend,” Humphrey said. “As one of the keynote speakers expressed, ‘When God gives, we give back.’ This is true for both the donors and the recipients.” 
According to the schedule of events for the weekend, donors were able to be a “stu­dent for the day” Friday from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Donors had the opportunity to sit in on a variety of classes throughout the College, as well as to take meals in the Noble Family Dining Hall or Cyber Café with students. 
Visiting donors also were able to participate in several activities throughout Friday afternoon. A spiritual retreat called “Journey of Life” was offered to donors in the Augusta Hall Conference Room at Saint Mary’s Convent. At the conclusion of the retreat, Sr. Mary Louise Gude, vice presi­dent for Mission, led guests on a tour of the Sisters of the Holy Cross Heritage Room. Donors were also given a chance to pray at the labyrinth, led by Judy Fean, director of Campus Ministry. 
In addition, donors were able to meet the 2010 “New Voices” scholars in Welsh Parlor in Haggar Hall or watch the Belles tennis match against Adrian College. 
Friday evening events con­cluded with a concert by Bellacappella in Little Theatre at Moreau Center for the Arts. 
Saturday’s activities began with a roundtable discussion about the life and character of Sister M. Madeleva Wolff, for­mer president of the College. After the discussion, current President Carol Ann Mooney gave a presidential address to the donors. Both events were held in Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall. 
In addition to spending time with donors Friday, an appre­ciation luncheon was held Saturday for students who received aid from donations. 
“As the recipients, Saint Mary's and the students who receive scholarship money can show their appreciation for the donors in a small way by host­ing a luncheon,” Humphrey said. 
Humphrey said the luncheon was an important opportunity for the donors because it gave them the opportunity to meet students who were affected by their contributions to the College. 
“During this unique oppor­tunity, the donors are able to physically see how their dona­tion is used by being able to meet the recipient of their scholarship. They are able to see that their donations are not being used to purchase mahogany desks or a tapestry rug, which occurs at other col­leges and universities,” she said. “Rather, they are affirmed that their money is used to fund the most impor­tant part of Saint Mary's: the education of women.” 
After the luncheon, donors were able to tour Spes Unica Hall and Madeleva Hall throughout the afternoon. Mass was offered in the Chapel of the Holy Spirit in LeMans Hall. After Mass, a reception was held in the Student Center Lounge. The weekend concluded with din­ner in the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



Conference to redefine beauty 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 

The second annual Bold Beauty Conference at Saint Mary’s will aim to open the definition of beauty. 
The Bold Beauty Conference will take place today from 3:30 p.m. to 9 
p.m. in the Saint Mary’s Student Center. 
“The goal of the Bold Beauty Conference is not to impose a rigid set of standards on what beauty is or is not. Instead, through the con­ference we strive to help students expand their understanding of what and who is beautiful — to embrace and understand the beauty in differ­ence,” senior Cassie McDonagh said. 
Photoshop projects, Barbies on Parade and the Price of Beauty dis­play will be going on during this time in Vander Vannet Theatre. Opening remarks will be at 5 p.m., followed directly by the documen­tary “Very Young Girls” at 6:30 p.m. 
“A new and exciting addition to this year’s conference will be the screening of and panel discussion about ‘Very Young Girls,’” McDonagh said. 
After the documentary there will be a question-and-answer session with Cait Mullen, who participated in the filming of the documentary. Mullen was also one of the drafters of New York’s groundbreaking Safe Harbor Act, the first law in the country to recognize that children who have been prostituted are vic­tims, not criminals. 
“Sadly, the average age of entry into prostitution in the United States is under 13 years old,” McDonagh said. “By studying the rapidly grow­ing problem of the prostitution of children in the United States, we see the distortion and abuse of the female body in its most radical form.” 
Dr. Amanda Littauer, assistant professor of Women's Studies and History at Northern Illinois University, will be speaking in Carroll Auditorium on, "Teen Girls and American Sexual Culture in the 1950's” at 7:30 p.m. 
“The conference will host and dis­play projects that members of Saint Mary’s Female Beauty class have been working on throughout the semester,” McDonagh said. 
Some of the project themes include an examination of how porn has lost its negative connotation and it is now pervasive, how women are hyper-sexualized and an examina­tion of college-aged women and their thoughts on body image, soror­ities and femininity in light of the St. Mary’s lifestyle. 
McDonagh also expressed the need for this conference and why it is important to examine what beau­ty is. 
“After four years at an all­women’s college, we have seen first­hand the damage the unattainable beauty ideal has done to the females we interact with on a daily basis,” McDonagh said. “The Bold Beauty Conference helps to reverse these ideals that have been ingrained in our minds and help empower the women of our campus to overcome the narrow ideals of beauty.” 
Saint Mary’s Communication Studies, Dance and Theater, Women’s Studies, History and Film Studies departments are sponsoring the event. 

Contact Carolynn Smith at csmith02@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 26, 2010 



World & Nation 
Monday, April 26, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Al-Qaida in Iraq confirms deaths 
BAGHDAD — An al-Qaida front group in Iraq on Sunday confirmed the killing of its two top leaders but vowed to keep up the fight despite claims by U.S. and Iraqi officials that the deaths could be a devastating blow to the terror network. 
The defiance came in a statement released a week after the group’s leaders — Abu Omar al-Baghdadi and Abu Ayyub al-Masri 
— were killed in a raid by Iraqi and U.S. security forces on their safe house near Tikrit, north of Baghdad. 
The four-page statement by the Islamic State of Iraq was posted on a militant web­site early Sunday. 

Cardinal pledges investigation 
SANTIAGO — A top Roman Catholic official in Chile acknowledged in a letter Sunday that he suspended an investigation into alleged abuses by a priest because he was looking for more evi­dence. 
But Cardinal Francisco Javier Errazuriz assured parishioners the church investigation is again under way into the retired Rev. Fernando Karadima, who also is the subject of a Chilean prosecutor’s criminal probe. 
The accusations against Karadima were first reported last week by La Tercera newspaper, which said a former altar boy accused the ex-priest of sexually abusing him in his residence at the Sacred Heart of Jesus church in the capital’s elegant Providencia neighborhood. The man, now a doctor, said the abuse started when he was a child and continued for nearly 20 years. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Flaws found in registries 
NEW YORK — Combatting child abuse is a cause with universal support. Yet a push to create a national database of abusers, as authorized by Congress in 2006, is barely progressing as serious flaws come to light in the state-level registries that would be the basis for a national list. 
In North Carolina, an appeals court ruled last month that the registry there is uncon­stitutional because alleged abusers had no chance to defend themselves before being listed. 
And the U.S. Supreme Court is scheduled to hear a case this fall arising from the plight of a California couple whose names remain on that state’s registry years after they were cleared of an abuse allegation made by their rebellious teenage daughter. 

Obama and Graham share prayer 
MONTREAT, N.C. — President Barack Obama made a pilgrimage Sunday to Billy Graham’s mountainside home, concluding his North Carolina vacation with his first meeting with the ailing evangelist who has counseled commanders in chief since Dwight Eisenhower. 
The 48-year-old president made the short drive to Montreat from Asheville, where he spent the weekend, to see the 91-year-old Graham and son Franklin, also an evangelist. 
During the visit, which lasted about 30 minutes and included aides and advisers to both men, Obama had a private prayer and conversation with Billy Graham. The evan­gelist gave Obama two Bibles, one for him and one for the first lady, Graham spokesman Larry Ross said. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Indiana short of psychiatrists 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Indiana is short of psychiatrists at a time when diagnoses of mental illnesses are increasing dramatical­ly, forcing many facilities to turn to tempo­rary doctors to help patients in need. 
A recent study showed that the number of U.S. psychiatrists rose 15.2 percent between 1990 and 1999, compared with a 37 percent spike in the number of psychol­ogists. 
Experts say funding cuts have led med­ical schools to offer fewer residencies and cut training opportunities and forced many mental health facilities to merge or close. 


Clean-up continues for Gulf spill 
Crews use submarines to stop oil leak; environmental effects still possible 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Crews were using a robot subma­rine Sunday to try to stop an oil leak nearly a mile (two kilometers) below the sur­face of the Gulf of Mexico, but officials said it would take at least another day before they knew whether the job was completed. 
The Coast Guard said the oil spill was expected to stay 30 miles (50 kilometers) off the coast for the next three days, but officials are still keeping a watchful eye because the slick has the potential to threaten shores from Louisiana to Florida. 
Officials said they were trying to stop the flow by using robot submarines to activate valves at the well head, but that would take 24 to 36 hours to complete. If that doesn’t work, crews are also planning to drill a relief well to cut off the flow — which could take several months. 
What appeared to a man­ageable spill a couple of days ago after an oil rig exploded and sank off the Louisiana coast Tuesday, has now turned into a more serious environmental problem. The new leak was discovered Saturday, and as much as 1,000 barrels — or 42,000 gallons (160,000 liters) — of oil is leaking each day, Coast Guard Rear Adm. Mary Landry said. 
The new leak is troubling for the fragile ecosystem of shrimp, fish, birds and coral. Officials said it’s still too soon to say whether the sensitive habitat will be affected. 
“What crude oil tends to do is float to surface and then under wave action it turns into what looks like chocolate mousse and sinks. It’s way too early to tell” the impact, said James Cowan, an oceanography and coastal sciences professor at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. 
The initial spill occurred during the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon about 50 miles (80 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast. More than 100 workers safely escaped the platform, which is about the size of two football fields, but 11 workers have not been found and are pre­sumed dead. 


The explosion created a rainbow sheen of oil on the surface of the water for a couple of days. On Thursday, the rig sank, adding another twist to the accident. 
Still, officials maintained that no more oil appeared to be leaking. 
Severe weather rolled into the region Saturday, and crews had to suspend cleanup efforts. Then, offi­cials offered up the grim news: the new leak had been found. 
The sheen on the surface has grown, extending 20 miles by 20 miles (30 kilo­meters by 30 kilometers) Saturday — about 25 times larger than it appeared to be a day earlier, Landry said. 
“This is a very serious spill, absolutely,” Landry said. 
The leak is releasing about 42,000 gallons (160,000 liters) a day. By comparison, Exxon Valdez spilled 11 mil­lion gallons (40 million liters) in Alaska’s Prince William Sound in 1989 — the worst oil spill in U.S. history. 
“It has the potential to be pretty serious, but at 1,000 barrels a day, if it comes to the surface they’ll probably be able to contain it and vac­uum it up,” Cowan said. 
BP PLC, which leased the rig, has taken the lead in the cleanup, and crews have used robot submarines to try to stop the leak by closing valves on the well deep underwater. If that doesn’t work, the company could drill what’s called an inter­vention well to control the oil flow. But intervention drilling could take months. 
“Over the next several days, we should determine which method is the best one to follow,” said Doug Suttles, chief operating officer for BP Exploration and Production. 
BP said it has activated an extensive oil spill response, including the robot sub­marines, 700 workers, four planes and 32 vessels to mop up the spill and spray chemi­cals that will disperse the oil. 
The Marine Spill Response Corp., an energy industry cleanup consortium, also brought in equipment. So far, crews have retrieved about 1,052 barrels of oily water. 
VENEZUELA 


Chavez foes seek unity through primaries 
Associated Press 
CARACAS, Venezuela — Opponents of President Hugo Chavez held pri­maries Sunday to pick candidates for congressional elections, a crucial step for Venezuela’s opposition as it seeks a unified platform for the September vote. 
Venezuelans voted in a third of the country’s 24 states, with 87 hopefuls competing for 22 candidacies. The primaries are part of the opposi­tion’s effort to field a single candi­date for each the 165 National Assembly seats up for grabs, its only chance for mounting a strong chal­lenge to Chavez’s allies. 

Party leaders have already reached agreements on the other 143 candidates that will represent the opposition as it bids to win con­trol of the assembly, which has been dominated by Chavez supporters since the last congressional vote in 2005. 
“Total unity in the majority of vot­ing districts is a necessary require­ment, although it’s not enough to win,” said pollster Luis Vicente Leon of the Caracas-based firm Datanalisis, noting that Chavez foes must motivate their constituents to vote Sept. 26. 
More than 10,000 volunteers with ties to opposition groups staffed polling stations equipped with elec­tronic voting machines for Sunday’s primarites, which were monitored by the National Electoral Council. The primaries, which cost $700,000 to organize, were financed by political parties and individual Chavez oppo­nents. 
“We are going to be more united than ever before,” said Richard Blanco, an opposition politician. 
Pro-Chavez candidates won all of the seats in the single-house assem­bly during the last election after major opposition parties boycotted the vote, arguing the country’s elec­tronic voting system was susceptible to fraud. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 26, 2010 


Local bar works with Not For Sale 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students will reach out to the 27 million victims of sexual slavery and human trafficking with the Not For Sale campaign while celebrating the end of spring classes at Finny’s Wednesday. 
“Not For Sale is a move­ment to re-abolish slavery that persists as human traf­ficking, indentured servitude, child labor and sex traffick­ing around the world,” sen­ior Chelsea Slaggert said. 
The Blarney Stone, known as Finny’s to many in the community, will be offering 25 percent of proceeds from drinks and all of the cover charges from 10 p.m. to 3 
a.m. to support the cam­paign. 
“We want to bring people’s attention to the tragedy that exists in our midst,” she said. “This is not a problem that only happens abroad. People are enslaved in the United States. And it has to end.” 
Slaggert orchestrated the fundraiser along with seniors Caroline Hawes, Michelle Ripple and Laura Borgenheimer. 
“Throughout our four years at Notre Dame, we have developed strong passions to do something to end human suffering, whether that be poverty, poor health care, access to clean water or human trafficking, and this event is a simple action we’ve decided to take,” Slaggert said. 
Slaggert said more people are victimized by modern human trafficking than were victimized during the height of the trans-Atlantic slave trade. 
“Human trafficking occurs when people, most commonly women and children, are forcefully coerced, abducted or deceived and transported across borders to be used by individuals as a source of domestic help or income,” Slaggert said. 

Slaggert said she hopes the women of Notre Dame will consider the implications of sexual slavery in their imme­diate lives. 
“In bringing awareness to the forced objectification of slavery, we also want to con­sider more personally the way in which we — women of Notre Dame — choose to objectify ourselves or allow yourself to be objectified by others as a ‘sexy’ appear­ance or body,” Slaggert said. 
Not For Sale encourages members of different back­grounds and communities to find ways to seek justice for victims of slavery. The Not For Sale campaign aims to find “innovative solutions for every individual to re-abolish slavery in their own back­yards and across the globe,” according to the campaign website. 
The Not For Sale website outlines the campaign’s work to “recruit, educate and mobilize an international grassroots social movement that effectively combats human trafficking and slav­ery.” 
Poverty is key for those oppressed by human traffick­ing, Slaggert said. 
“The position of vulnerabil­ity faced by those living in poverty make them perfect targets for the abuse of power,” she said. 
The crime is also a hidden one, according to the cam­paign website, but Slaggert said it is one that must be addressed. 
“Slavery is an absolute form of human objectifica­tion,” Slaggert said. “People are forced to become objects of labor and sex at the whim of those who hold power over them.” 
The campaign website highlights communication and creativity as crucial to the mission of the “new gen­eration of abolitionists.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



Shirt 
continued from page 1 
In an atmosphere bearing similarities to a football Saturday, with food, games, guest speakers, the glee club and the marching band, festivi­ties began at 4 p.m. and contin­ued until the much-anticipated shirt unveiling just after 6 p.m. Following the unveiling, fans and students had the chance to buy The Shirt. 
“We need to sell these shirts more than ever out there,” Kelly said, “We’ve already had 20,000 pre-sold, and the fans don’t even know what it looks like!” 
Beginning in 1990 under the leadership of AnTostal chair­man Brennen Harvath, The Shirt Project has become in its 21 years one of Notre Dame’s most widely recognized tradi­tions. In its first year, more than $17,000 was raised to support the AnTostal budget and other student clubs on campus. 
Today, part of the revenue from sales is given to rector funds and to The Shirt Project Fund, which supports students with serious accidents or ill­nesses. 
As former Notre Dame foot­ball player and ESPN radio show host Mike Golic said, the shirt has raised more than $7 million in its 21 years. 
“I love when The Shirt comes up,” Golic said, “It’s a new shirt to unveil, a new team to unveil.” 
Also among the guest speak­ers on Friday was also Notre Dame fan favorite, officer Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police. 
“Today’s unveiling marks a tradition to be worn with pride,” he said, “So remember, the statement on The Shirt makes a point, and I think that’s pretty sharp.” 
Besides The Shirt’s design, ready and put track shoes on’ kind of feeling. It’s also always exciting when you see a new coach. You want to see him do well.” 
Growing anticipation came directly from Kelly as well. Speaking of the new Shirt’s design, he said it reflected the from the previous design. 
“I think last year’s shirt was too busy,” Kadykowski said. “This one is a lot more clean. It’s more stylish because of that.” 

Contact Tony Rivera at rrivera3@nd.edu 


students also had a preview of next year’s varsity Leprechaun, Dave Zimmer. 
“How you all doin’ Irish fans?” he said on the stage, “Are you all ready for a new season and a new coach?” 
His words reflected the grow­ing sense of hope with the start of a new football season in the fall, Kelly’s first as head coach need to get back to the roots of tradition of Notre Dame foot­ball. 

after the firing  what we’re get- 
of Charlie Weis  ting next year.”  
last December.  “I love when The Shirt  As far as the  
“There’s a lot of anticipation for next year,”  comes out. It’s a new shirt to unveil, a new  design went, he said it worked for him, too.  
s o p h o m o r e  team to unveil.”  “Compared to  
R o n n i e  last year, it’s a  
K a d y k o w s k i said. “Like with  Mike Golic  lot better,” he said. “I like the  
Mike Golic say- former Notre Dame  color, I like the  
ing he likes the team’s offense,  football player  front.” Other students  
it’s kind of like  also noted an  
a ‘Let’s get  i m p r o v e m e n t  

“The Shirt exemplifies exactly how we are going to play,” he said. 
Sophomore Ben Fuja said he also sensed Kelly’s excitement. 
“He got the fans fired up,” Fuja said of Kelly. “It was very cool. It’s nice to get a taste of 


The Observer 




Business
Monday, April 26, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

CKE restaurants sell equity firm 
CARPINTERIA, Calif. — The operator of Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s restaurants has accept­ed a higher buyout offer from a second suitor, an affiliate of Apollo Management VII LP, worth $694 million. 
The bid for CKE Restaurants Inc. from an affiliate of private equity firm Apollo Management VII LP topped a previous bid worth $619 million from affiliates of another private equity firm, Thomas H. Lee Partners. 
CKE Restaurants Inc. said Saturday it took the offer, worth $12.55 per share, from Apollo affiliate Columbia Lake Acquisition Holdings Inc. 
CKE and the fast-food industry have been hurting as customers continue to struggle with high unemployment. 
CKE’s revenue fell nearly 5 percent in the quarter, while sales at stores open at least a year dropped 6 percent. This figure is consid­ered a key performance indicator because it measures growth from existing locations rather than newly opened ones. 
The company operates and franchises 3,141 restaurants in 42 states. 

Energy-efficient rebates go fast 
NEW ORLEANS — A Louisiana program to get people to replace older appliances with energy-efficient ones is proving very popular. 
The Department of Natural Resources’s Empower Louisiana program started Saturday. The website set up to reserve rebates of $75 to $500 showed that nearly $2.8 million had been reserved by 9 p.m. and about $3.7 million was left. 
DNR got $6.8 million in federal stimulus money from the U.S. Department of Energy for the program. It will last until February 2012 or the money runs out. 
Clothes washers, dishwashers, water heaters and heating and air conditioning systems are covered. 
After less than two days, Louisiana residents have reserved more than half the money in a program to replace appliances with energy-effi­cient ones. 
The Department of Natural Resources’s Empower Louisiana website showed that by Sunday evening, $3.4 million in rebates were reserved, and just over $3 million was left. 


GoldmanSachsreleasesdocuments 
E-mails show how crash turned into cash; company fuels Congressional debate 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — As the U.S. housing turned downward in January 2007, a Goldman Sachs trader wrote in e­mails to a woman he appar­ently was courting that investments he had sold were “like Frankenstein turning against his own inventor.” 
“I’m trading a product which a month ago was worth $100 and today is only worth $93,” wrote Fabrice Tourre, who was charged along with the bank in a civil complaint filed this month by the Securities and Exchange Commission. “That doesn’t seem like a lot but when you take into account ... (the investments) are worth bil­lions, well it adds up to a lot of money.” 
Tourre was talking about investment products like the one at the heart of a federal complaint against his firm. For Tourre, the investments were like an invention gone awry: He had started arrang­ing them when the market was on the upswing. But he continued selling them after the market turned — now with Goldman betting against them, in one case allegedly misleading investors about a deal’s origin. 

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. released that e-mail and 25 from the mortgage melt-misled two investors — IKB Goldman released in full other internal documents down. Deutsche Industriebank AG, Saturday. The firm’s move Saturday in response to a Swenson and Tourre, a German bank, and ACA puts on full display the per-Senate panel’s release of along with Goldman CEO Management LLC, a U.S. sonal life of the trader, who messages in which Goldman Lloyd Blankfein, will face a bond insurance company — had boasted that the market executives boast about public grilling on Capitol Hill who bought complex mort-would implode, leaving only money they were making as Tuesday from the subcom-gage-related products craft-him standing. And it does so the market imploded later in mittee. ed in part by Paulson & Co., days before he makes his 2007. Also this week, the full a New York hedge fund led public debut. 
When credit rating agen-Senate will take up a pro-by billionaire John Paulson. “Obviously, the content of cies downgraded many bil-posed overhaul of financial Paulson was betting the mar-the e-mails is highly embar­lions of dollars of mortgage-regulation intended to tough-ket would collapse. The SEC rassing, but we’ve found no backed investments in en oversight of Wall Street says Goldman didn’t tell the evidence of wrongdoing,” October 2007, Goldman and make the financial sys-investors that Paulson was Goldman spokesman Samuel executive Donald Mullen was tem more transparent. involved in choosing the Robinson said. unabashedly pleased. Republican leaders oppose investments or that he was Goldman also has become 
“Sounds like we will make the measures. betting they would fail. a useful symbol for serious money,” Mullen And Goldman has been in Goldman has denied Democrats in the escalating wrote to Michael Swenson, the glare of a particularly wrongdoing and says it will debate over the financial another executive, in one of unforgiving spotlight since fight the charges. It has said overhaul. In fact, the e-mails released by the the SEC filed civil fraud it lost money on the particu-Republicans charge that Senate Permanent charges this month over the lar deal of Tourre’s that the Democrats in the Senate and Subcommittee on investments Tourre was sell-SEC charges address. on the SEC are using the Investigations. ing and discussing in his e-The SEC complaint con-public’s anger toward 
Goldman has argued vehe-mail. tains excerpts from the same Goldman to build support for mently that it did not profit The SEC alleges Goldman Tourre e-mail chains that their plan. 


Senators confident energy bill on track 
Associated Press arate conversation, according to on the energy bill, has postponed 
Lieberman, Graham reiterated his releasing the legislation on Monday in 
WASHINGTON — A day after bipar-support for the energy bill once it’s no light of the dispute over what Reid tisan support for an energy and cli-longer tangled up with immigration may do with the immigration bill. mate change bill appeared to crum-legislation. Senators appearing on the Sunday ble, a Senate sponsor said Sunday he “Now I’m encouraged,” Lieberman television news shows disagreed was optimistic the coalition would said. Asked when the energy bill about whether immigration should be regroup and lawmakers would con-might advance, he said, “Sometime on the Senate agenda this year and sider the measure this year. soon, as soon as we can get Lindsey whether the energy bill could be han-
Sen. Joe Lieberman, a Connecticut on board.” dled before the end of the year if independent, said in an interview with Graham has threatened to withhold immigration legislation were consid-The Associated Press that he was his support for the energy bill if ered first. encouraged after talking to Majority Senate Democrats opt to deal first “I just don’t think this is the right Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., and Sen. with immigration. He accused Reid of time to take up this issue with the Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who were at a “cynical political ploy” in suggesting border security problems, the drug odds over Reid’s suggestion that an the change, which comes as Reid wars going on across the border, 10 immigration overhaul might be con-faces a difficult re-election in heavily percent unemployment,” said sidered ahead of the energy bill. Hispanic Nevada and immigration Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-
Lieberman said Reid pledged to legislation is a priority for Hispanics. Ky. “It just strikes me that our time bring the energy bill to the full Senate Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., who would be better spent at the federal as soon as possible this year. In a sep-worked with Graham and Lieberman level on other issues.” 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 26, 2010 
Senior Lee Marsh has contem-much bigger than that.” through glass door,” he said. attention, Odozor said Catholic plated going into the Fr. Paulinus Odozor, a theolo-“We tried to take a way some parishioners have still been 
Faculty 

priesthood, and said the possi-gy professor, also recognized of the privacy … just to be more receptive to him as a priest. 
continued from page 1 ble stigma of clerical sex abuse the positive contributions the transparent in that way.” “Catholics generally reach out has disturbed him. Church has made in the world. Russeau also said the process to you,” he said. “They are not “That is one thing my mom “Do you know how many hos-for admitting expecting you to the priest from the parish, send always brought up when I pitals the Church is running?” priests into the keep away from 
“I’ve been edified by a
them off a Monastery to do would talk to her about the he said. “Do you know the mil-seminary is people.” penance or psychotherapy, and priesthood min-lions of pupils very specific. lot of the students who “In fact, some-then reassign them to a parish,” istry,” he said. enrolled in “We have a time ago after 
have written to me 
Cunningham said. Although he is Catholic school psychological Mass, a kid 
saying we need to
Now, as controversy sur-unsure about “We cannot change the today being battery of tests came to me to rounds Pope Benedict XVI and pursuing priest-past, but we in the taught by that every can-pray for the Pope, we hug me and the his role as bishop of the hood, Marsh Catholic men didate takes. need to pray for our mom was stand-
Church must do

Archdiocese of Munich and said he wants to and women? They have a lot ing there,” 
priests.” 
Freising in the early 1980s devote his life everything we can to “I don’t want of interviews Odozor said. when a priest was accused of to Catholic min-prevent such abuse this to sound tri-with psycholo-Odozor initial-sexual abuse, some Notre Dame istry in some umphonistic. I gists, priests, Fr. Kevin Russeau ly hesitated, but 
from happening in the

students and faculty say they way, and he is am simply say-with the layper-the mother 
director 
are disturbed by the stories of undeterred by future.” ing we must put son,” he said. encouraged him 
Old College
abuse scandals. the Church’s these things in “We try to be to embrace her Yet others defend the Church scandals. balance.” very careful daughter. 
Fr. John Jenkins 

despite news reports of clerical “It’s like a While sexual about who we let into the semi-“She said, ‘Father, please give 
University president 

abuse. doctor and mal-abuse by priests nary.” her a hug.’ 
“I’ve been edified by a lot of practice. It’s is a “serious Odozor said he believes the “They realize that the bulk of the students who have written always there problem,” the Church has already begun to priests have the intention of to me saying we need to pray but shouldn’t stop you from Church is “not the monster take action to address the prob-serving the Church,” he said. for the Pope, we need to pray exercising your ability to help roaming the streets trying to get lem. Odozor, who has been a priest for our priests,” Russeau said. people,” he said. people,” Odozor said. “One of the gains from this sit-for 26 years, said despite its “For some people this has been But Marsh said he still has a Russeau said there are steps uation, if you can call it that, is current difficulties, priesthood kind of a rallying point to say lot of trust and faith in the the Church can take to prevent the fact that [the Church] has is “a happy profession.” hey, let’s try to be supportive. Church. such abuse from happening put in place better rules for “In spite of everything, I 
“I’ve actually experienced “I think when we look at the again and that the focus should oversight. To be able to catch wouldn’t be anything else.” more of that here on campus.” bishops who have made poor be on keeping children safe. these things and take adequate 
University President Fr. John decisions, we are looking at a “We redesigned the reconcili-and appropriate action,” Odozor Contact Madeline Buckley at Jenkins said Notre Dame’s role small part of the human portion ation room [at my former said. mbuckley@nd.edu and Sarah as a leading Catholic institution of the Church,” he said. “It’s parish] so there is a mostly see-Despite the negative media Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu is to look forward toward pre­venting further abuse. 
“We cannot change the past, but we in the Church must do everything we can to prevent such abuse from happening in the future,” Jenkins said in a written statement. “Notre Dame must do all it can to make sure it holds itself to the highest standards and toward this end, we have put policies and proce­dures in place.” 
Jenkins also said the University affirms support for victims and prays for their heal­ing. 
“Our thoughts are with vic­tims who have been so damaged psychologically and spiritually by sexual abuse by clergy and religious,” Jenkins said. “Faith and prayer are particularly needed that we do not succumb to negative emotions, but seek healing, hope and constructive reform.” 
Theology professor Fr. Richard McBrien said he is con­cerned about the abuse scan­dals that have continually sur­faced in the news in recent months — especially those regarding the Pope. 
“He should be completely open and truthful about what happened in Munich when he served as its archbishop, and what happened during his time as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which also had responsibility for sexual abuse cases involving priests,” McBrien said. 
“Most people would be under­standing and forgiving if he admitted some mistakes in judg­ment. What people resent is being lied to,” he said. “This controversy will not go away unless and until the pope him­self speaks out. His allies have not helped him thus far.” 
Cunningham said he believes some of the “finger-pointing” at Pope Benedict for allegedly not removing a priest accused of sexual abuse from contact with children is unfair. 
“I think in a way he’s getting a bad rap for it,” Cunningham said. “I think he was in fact someone trying to do something for the situation.” 
He said many of the cases sur­facing in the news are decades old. 
“Today there are very clear procedures set up,” he said. “I think the widespread plague of child abuse generally is a symp­tom of something that is really wrong with society as a whole.” 


Monday, April 26, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Water 
continued from page 1 
that Student Government showed this year that it can focus on a single service initia­tive for the entire year,” she said. “It’s a pretty unique model that hadn’t been done before.” 
In addition to fundraisers put on by student organiza­tions, members and organiza­tions of Notre Dame’s academ­ic community such as the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity at the Kellogg Institute helped educate stu­dents on the issue of the global water crisis. 
Weber said having wide­spread campus participation strengthened student bonds over the course of the school year. 
“Groups on campus that nor­mally didn’t connect were brought together so it helped build our community as well as helping the world,” she said. 
Roseberry mentioned two events in particular that stood out in terms of raising aware­ness and funding for the global water crisis, in addition to demonstrating Notre Dame’s sense of community giving. 
“Howard Hall’s ‘Totter for Water’ was a fantastic event that raised over $2,000,” she said. “The Benefit CD in February with 18 student artists was another way the Notre Dame community came together to raise money for the world’s clean water crisis.” 

Weber said while the Global Water Initiative was coming to a close with the end of last year’s Student Government term, the Notre Dame campus should expect a similar pro­gram after the success of this year’s series of events and fundraisers. 

“This particular initiative won’t be continued but some­thing similar to it will be next year,” she said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 




Prof. receives Clem Labine Award 
Special to The Observer 
Steven Semes, associate pro­fessor at the School of Architecture and academic director of its Rome Studies Program, has been named the 2010 recipient of the Clem Labine Award. Sponsored by Restore Media, publisher of Traditional Building and Period Homes magazines, the Labine Award goes to the per­son who has done the most to “foster humane values in the built environment.” 
Semes will be honored Oct. 21 in Chicago at the Restore Media Awards Dinner. The cer­emony, which will also honor the 2010 Palladio Award win­ners, is part of the Traditional Building Exhibition and Conference, which will be held Oct. 20 to 23. 

Semes received the award for his work in preservation and sensitive design, as well as his articles, blogs, lectures and his 2009 book, “The Future of the Past: A Conservation Ethic for Architecture, Urbanism, and Historic Preservation,” which argues context matters and that new buildings and additions to old buildings should be harmonious with their neighbors. 
“The goal of the award is to honor an individual who, over an extended period of time, has demonstrated a personal commitment to infusing humane values into the cre­ation of public and urban spaces,” says Clem Labine, founder of Traditional Building, Period Homes and Old-House Journal. “The award’s underlying conviction is that the humanist principles of the Classical tradition are essential to creating a civil society.” 


University 
continued from page 1 
Burtchaell’s resignation fol­lowed an investigation conduct­ed by the Office of the Provost, under the leadership of then-provost Timothy O’Meara. The investigation was conducted throughout the 1990-91 aca­demic year, after different mer Notre Dame rector Fr. Robert Huneke was also impli­cated when a former student wrote a letter to members of the parish at which Huneke served in 1989. 
Huneke allegedly began abusing the student when he was a parish priest in Long Island in 1969. When the stu­dent began attending Notre Dame in the early 1970s, Huneke followed him to the University, and served as an 

students “I experienced a assistant rector alleged of Cavanaugh 
violation when I was 
Burtchaell Hall and rector abused them, with him — a of Grace Hall, according to violation of trust, of the according to the the Dec. 3, May 4, 2003, 
confidence I had in him.” 
1991, issue of issue of The The Observer. South Bend Burtchaell John Michael Vore Tribune. was on leave The abuse 
alumnus 
from the continued until 
class of 1986, 1993 
University for the 1991-92 academic year, when he was a visiting professor at Princeton University. His resignation was effective at the conclusion of that academic year. 
It is unclear when the University first received reports of Burtchaell’s abuse of stu­dents. William Storey, a theolo­gy professor at Notre Dame who retired in 1991, said he reported possible sexual mis­conduct by Burtchaell to the Congregation of the Holy Cross in 1976, according to the Dec. 13, 1991 issue of the National Catholic Reporter. 
Burtchaell served as the University’s first provost for seven years beginning in 1970. He was also chair of the Theology Department from 1968 to 1970. 
He was known for stringent pro-life position and opposition to homosexuality in the Church, but also supported the ordination of women in a 1975 homily, The Observer reported. 
After his resignation, Burtchaell was barred from public ministry, but remains a member of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
Burtchaell’s case was the highest profile case of sexual abuse at Notre Dame, but for-the student was 


20 -years -old, according to The Tribune, but the student did not report the abuse until both he and Huneke were no longer present at the University. 
Huneke was working at a parish in Huntington, N.Y., in 1989 when the student accused him of abuse. The diocese removed Huneke from the parish, and the priest eventual­ly married a former nun, according to The Tribune. 
The student learned in 2001 that Huneke was working as a guidance counselor at a high school in Atlanta. He informed the school about Huneke’s past, 
and  the  former  priest  was  
fired,  according  to  The  
Tribune.  

The University established a three-member committee in 2003 for students and alumni to contact to report sexual mis­conduct by clergy, according to The Tribune. The committee consisted of Theology Department chair John Cavadini, then-associate provost and current president of Saint Mary’s College Carol Mooney and then-general counsel Carol Kaesebier. 

Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 


The Observer 





Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, April 26, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Viewpoint 
Amanda Gray Lianna Kristen Durbin Brauweiler Emily Schrank Sports 
Graphics Douglas Farmer 
Mary Cecilia Molly Sammon 
Mitsch Tim Singler 

Scene 
Jordan Gamble 



If only college were just lion around 
I initially wanted to use this, my final Observer article, as a summation — or multiplication, I might say if I’m in the boastful mood — of my college career. 
But every time I’d stop and think, I became distracted. This summarizes col­lege well, actually, but I still needed the article. What dis­tractions kept me from tracting (maybe?) my atten­tion on the article? Well, in this case, it Jackie was that fantasti-

Mirandola 
cal Christian 
Mullen
shtick, “The Lion, the Witch, and the Freckled Wardrobe.” Any Thoughts fun-loving Notre Dame student could admit to similar distractions, drawn in by the Christian allegories of Mr. Lewis and his two pre­ceding initials (Does “postceding” come after “ceding?” Or maybe it’s seceding. I’ll ask someone else from the South). 
The longer I watched Lewis’ story, the more disturbed I grew — why is Jesus a lion? (Aslan is Turkish for “lion,” in case you only listened to the movie.) 
Again, why? Male lions do not deserve this praise; their main purpose in life is to spread their seeds amongst females ... and even if that allegory sounds similar to Jesus (regarding sowing seeds, that is), a creature who exists solely (not like soles on shoes, more like only) to copulate might not be the best representation of God on Earth. 
And perhaps worse, in our hard-work-gets-you-ahead American men­tality: Male lions are lazy. 
When I say lazy, I don’t mean sit before the Serengeti boob tube and watch the latest wildebeest stampede on ESPN (Events on the Savanna Programming Network). No, I mean that these lethargic cats (pardon my redundancy) spend an average of 20 hours a day lay-Z-ing (they sound like rap artists) around. 

Twenty hours! Makes you feel silly for working so hard here when the symbolic “King” of the natural world doesn’t stand on four feet during the day any longer than it takes you to stand in the stadium and watch a foot­ball game — on two legs. 
Female lions lounge just the same amount (not on “a mount,” though, usually on rock) as the males, but they earn that relaxation time, as well as the first “laxation” time, before the “re-,” that is. This is because the lionesses both hunt and raise the young to adulthood. Working women who also keep up the home, lionesses would need something pretty exciting to keep them providing food for the pride. 
Well, excitement they have. Male lions might be good-for-nothings when it comes to meeting basic needs in lyin’ lives, but they have one thing that trumps all, whether lion or human: good looks. These mane men have evolved through the scientific process that human models undergo rapidly in journeys to fame, known in Latin as “gottitus flauntius,” also described in the musical “The Producers” as “If you’ve got it, flaunt it.” These kitties are so good-looking that they don’t have to do anything except fight with other men to shorten each others’ life spans and claim territoriality over the ladies, despite the fact that lionesses aren’t too picky once breeding season rolls around... 
What turns these ladies on? Well, if you’ve seen the Lion King, it’s not him. Mufasa and Simba are impressive, yes, but Disney’s racist tendencies skewed the real attractiveness of the lion. Dark manes are what the ladies really want. Re-watch the Lion King through the eyes of a lioness (please interpret that figuratively, as lion eyes are hard to come by), and you will see the new appeal of the villain. 
Lions’ evolution to these maned sex-symbols has been rapid, as Wikipedia informed me last evening. Apparently, scientists at UW (as I assume the University of Wikipedia calls itself) have found cave paintings of European lions as “exclusively show animals with no mane, or just the hint of a mane, suggesting that they were maneless.” I don’t think I need to point out to you the similarity between “Maneless” and “Manless.” Their effeminacy, however, likely resulted in a more egalitarian society where the men and women shared a good deal of the responsibili­ty. 
I’m not even making up this egalitar­ian nonsense, as you will see as I wiki-quote my next hard-earned find. “Lionesses do the majority of the hunt­ing for their pride, being smaller, swifter and more agile than the males, and unencumbered by the heavy and conspicuous mane, which causes over­heating during exertion.” Pretty boys can’t even run without getting too hot because of their hairdo. 
Perhaps I have been too hard on the male lion. His territorial defense and wooing of the female with his sexy dark mane permits the continuation of Panthera leo, after all. Yet, my upbringing by a feminist (I don’t know where she “brought me up” to, but I’m here) makes me want to go in and edu­cate that lion so that he can help with the cooking and the child-rearing, as he likely once did before his hairy neck collar. Mail lie ons are lazy, but they look good. 
I guess in leaving you, I can only hope this article did not end up as a summary of my college experience. Ladies, steer clear of attractive men with neck hair, and gentlemen, only grow out your mane if you plan on going into show biz. Good luck, every­one. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior History and German major. She would like to thank everyone for putting up with her environmental slants, Austrian rants and bad puns for the past three years. You can reach her at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are your plans for the summer? 
Service trip Internship Hanging with family and friends at home Going abroad Haven’t decided yet/Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The majority of men meet with failure because of their lack of persistence in creatingnew plans to take the place ofthose which fail.” 
Napoleon Hill
U.S. author 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Monday, April 26, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Waiting on a family not un-Catholic 
I wish to thank Joseph Nawrocki (“Misrepresentations,” April 22) and Peter Campbell (“Clarifications,” April 
23) for providing me the opportunity to clarify my position as presented in my April 21 Letter to the Editor (“Not so friendly”). Nawrocki accuses me of misrepresenting the positions of the “Family-Friendly” petitioners. He says that I “infer” that Campbell believes that the University should encourage students to “live compassionate and moral lives only within the confines of marriage.” I infer no such thing. I infer, rather, that Campbell believes that the University’s encouragement for moral and compassionate living in the context of marriage should take financial form (increased health bene­fits), and that he has not considered fully the ramification of this request: that is, if the University should fund family life because it is endorsed by Catholic teaching, then the University will be called upon to fund many other lifestyles and activities endorsed by Catholic doctrine, as well. If I choose to personally provide long-term meals and shelter for a homeless family, can I charge that to the University? 
Let Nawrocki and others note that I am not necessarily objecting to increased health care subsidies for graduate families (as the conclusion to my previous letter should make clear); I am objecting to justifying this increase by appealing to “Catholic teaching.” 
Peter Campbell’s attempt to clarify his position in his Letter does little to allay my fears. Here, Campbell says, “I did not intend my comments to imply that those living a married life with children are the only group able to live out the values espoused by the Catholic Church. This would clearly exclude both clergy and married couples who cannot have children, among others, which would be ridiculous.” Why are there only two groups (the clergy and those unable to have children) worthy of being named? Why will Campbell not specify two other groups who are certainly capable of living out Church teaching — the unmarried and those married people who chose not to have children while in graduate school? “Wherever the young students at Notre Dame encounter lives that are witness­es to these principles [of self-sacrifice and self-giving], whether in graduate student and faculty parents or the cler­gy serving them, their lives are enriched.” Again, cannot these princi­ples be witnessed to by graduate stu­dents or faculty who are unmarried or not parents? I want this possibility to be explicitly acknowledged by the peti­tioners, who, even after my own objec­tions and others, seem so hesitant to 

Green should be more than a trend 
After our Earth Day celebration on April 22, it has become apparent that this University needs to change its technique in being “green.” On this campus, becoming green has become a fashion, a trend, a competition — not a chance for us to save our planet. 
Those of us outside the biology department are never sufficiently educated in the actual science behind global warming, forestry or pollution. Consequently, it is diffi­cult for a majority of us to take a serious stance against these issues. Being green has become a bandwagon trend for which people are excited to buy a T-shirt or hike over to Stonehenge on Earth Day. 
If we are to truly make a difference in the way people act towards the environment we need to change the way in which they think about the environment. It must be a core conviction that people are able to hold, and not only during inter-dorm energy competitions or when friends stand next to each other while brushing their teeth with the water running. 
I suggest that we, the students of Notre Dame, educate ourselves in the direct consequences of our wasteful­ness. In this way we will all become more genuinely con­cerned and aware of what an impact our day-to-day lives have on the health of humanity and the world. 
Abigail Nichols 
freshman Welsh Family Hall April 23 


Congratulations to Women’s water polo 
Congratulations to the Notre Dame Women’s water polo team now competing at the National Tournament in Arizona. The team just set the NCAA record for most consecutive National qualifiers in the sport — 12. These women are focused, fun and they commit hours to their team. They compete at a high level in a sport that requires intense physical conditioning. Congrats to the coaches and especially the seniors. 
Catherine Kelly 
parent April 21 

admit that graduate students who have chosen different lifestyles may be both equally following Church teaching and equally in need of support as are mar­ried graduate students who have chil­dren. 
As to the “inadequate theological paradigms” that I mentioned in my last letter and for which Nawrocki requests clarification, Jamie O’Hare’s state­ment, which Nawrocki and I both quote, exemplifies: “many [married graduate students] will be bearing chil­dren, or they’re not following church teaching.” The Catholic Church teaches that married people ought to be open to procreation; it does not insist that married people have children in any certain timeframe. In fact, “Humanae Vitae” itself says that “In relation to physical, economic, psychological and social conditions, responsible parent­hood is exercised, either by the delib­erate and generous decision to raise a numerous family or by the decision, made for grave motives and with due respect for the moral law, to avoid for the time being, or even for an indeter­minate period, a new birth.” Thus, graduate students could choose to postpone having children until a more feasible time without violating Church teaching. 
I am not suggesting that graduate students who do have children while in school are irresponsible. I am simply saying that choosing to marry and have a family is a big commitment, and the decision to do so while in graduate school must take into account the financial and emotional costs. Some students will not chose to postpone having children until they finish their degrees, and I respect that choice. However, can we demand that the University subsidize the choice to sup­port a family on a graduate student income alone, while other students choose to postpone childbearing or marriage and still others choose to raise children in a family where both parents work and have health bene­fits? These decisions are highly per­sonal and must be made according to individual circumstances. I ask the petitioners to respect the complexity of these decisions, and to respect the sac­rifices that all graduate students — married or single, with or without chil­dren — make. If you do feel you are within your right to ask the University to help with the cost of deciding to have children on a graduate stipend alone, please do not rely on misrepre­sented Catholic teaching to do so. 

Emily Stetler 
grad student off campus April 23 


Inspirational teacher to be missed 
Upon reflection of our early school days, the most potent memories are often associated with one particular figure. More often than not, we can pick out one person who made our education light up. We identify one person who had the power to inspire, to spark our curiosity. Someone who demanded our best effort, yet never had to ask because we wanted to exceed his expecta­tions. We all have these figures in our memory, and for me, his name is David Thurston. 
At Los Alamos High School, Mr. Thurston taught honors biology for juniors. Aware of his repu­tation as being both eccentric and academically demanding, I went into Mr. Thurston’s class with trepidation. I did not realize his enthusiasm would reshape my academic path. 
Mr. Thurston wore a tie to school every day, because education was something to be taken seri­ously. These ties ranged from standard stripes to Donald Duck to DNA’s double helix. School was serious business, but it didn’t have to be boring. He commanded everyone’s attention, yet found a way to engage us all on a personal level. His class was not a passive environment — to be in attendance demanded full participation. An integral part of his teaching was his ability to con­nect with students, something he accomplished with a dry sense of humor. The Kreb’s cycle became the tale of a broken down car, mitosis was a story acted out with Play-Doh. Mr. Thurston transformed biology from a flavorless array of textbook pages into a world of molecular battles, complex cooperative systems and intricate works of art. 
His passion was palpable. 

Mr. Thurston taught biology but he did more than present facts. He described the history of the universe and beginning of life — big bang to Homo sapiens — in less than five minutes. After bat­tling with leukemia for just over a year, he said his final goodbye this month. He will be missed by students, parents and all who felt his ardor. He passed on an eagerness for raw knowledge, knowledge gained purely for its own sake. Thank you, Mr. Thurston, for having the courage to inspire us all. 
Analisa Sandoval 
senior Welsh Family Hall April 25 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 



Scene

MARY CECILIA MITSCH l Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Monday, April 26, 2010 page 13 


Have you been keeping up with this season? Who do 
By ANKUR CHAWLA 
you like so far? 
Scene Writer 

Yeah, I have. This season has a ton of talent, and I 
The “American Idol” star from last year’s season really like Crystal or Mike to win it all.eight has continued his pursuit of the American Of the nine seasons who has been your favorite idol dream by doing what he loves — making music. A contestant? few months ago he released his single “My Name,” Fantasia was something else. Her journey and which blends R&B beats with Eastern and Indian success was so inspiring and she was so talented.influences. The track of his independently released If you hadn’t made it on “Idol,” what would you be album “All is Fair” is as catchy as Miley Cyrus’ doing right now?“Party in the USA” while having the clever lyrics of I’d probably be studying for finals like you. I was Jay Sean’s “Down.” a grad student at UNC before auditioning for “Idol.”
I had the pleasure of speaking with him about What do you do outside of the music world? Hobbies? everything from his time on “Idol” to his favorite You know, before “Idol,” music was my escape, meal when he’s back home. what I did outside of classes. It’s so great now to be Your album is set to release in a few weeks, what can doing what I truly love doing as my full time you tell us about it? endeavor. But other than that, I do the normal stuff, 
Everyone I have shown it to so far has really I love hanging out with my friends and such. Also, if enjoyed it, and I hope you and all the readers at you were to ask them, “What is Anoop good at or Notre Dame agree. I pride myself in making every known for?” they’ll say eating and drinking wine. I track unique and a potential hit on its own. This love food. isn’t a CD with one or two good songs and the rest What’s your favorite meal? space-fillers. Other than the home-cooked Indian food, my Do you plan on going on tour for this album? favorite would be Mediterranean and Greek food. 
Yeah! We don’t have all of the specifics yet, but I Though, my all time favorite meal was when I went plan to go on tour across the country as well as to this restaurant named Eve in this old town internationally, making stops in the Philippines and Alexandria in Virginia. They had new age-y French India. fusion food, and it was a nine-course meal. I took If you could open for anyone who would it be? pictures of every dish because it looked so awesome
I had the pleasure of opening for Sean Kingston a Do you think you’ll do a performance at ND next fall? few weeks ago, and that was really cool especially I’d love to perform at Notre Dame! I’m really hop-with the contrast in our music: me with a full band ing to target colleges for the tour, and I love Notre and him with a track in the background. If I could Dame. If you guys ask me to come I’d be more than choose I’d love to open for someone like Jason happy to!Derulo or Ne-Yo. Is there anything else you’d like to tell the student What has life been like after “Idol”? Do you stay in body at Notre Dame?contact with a lot of the people from the show? I want to thank everyone at Notre Dame; hopeful­
It’s been great! The tour was amazing, and ly I’ll get to see you this fall! Also, I’m a huge spending that much time with everyone they basi-Carolina Panthers fan and am excited your star cally became family. While it’s tough to meet them, quarterback will be playing for us next year!we’re all across the country now, we try to stay in touch. Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH l Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 26, 2010 
MLB 

Home runs carry Angels past Vazquez, Yankees 
Patterson, Chavez hit big to help Athletics shut out Indians; Orioles’ losing streak ends with extra-inning win over Red Sox 
homer and his 10th off Vazquez, homer to give the Yankees a 2-0 
Associated Press 
the most he’s hit against any lead, and Cano stomped on the 

ANAHEIM, Calif. — Bobby pitcher. plate before heading to the Abreu and Kendry Morales home-The three-time defending AL dugout. red, Brandon Wood drove in the West champions pulled ahead 5-3 Thames followed Posada’s go-ahead runs with a bases-in the fourth with Howie fourth homer with a double, loaded double and the Los Kendrick’s RBI single, Wood’s advanced on a sacrifice by Curtis Angeles Angels handed the New clutch double off the glove of a Granderson and scored as Derek York Yankees their first series loss diving Marcus Thames in left field, Jeter beat the relay to first base of the season with an 8-4 victory and a run-scoring groundout by on a potential inning-ending dou-Sunday. Maicer Izturis. Wood’s first two ble-play grounder to third. 
Scott Kazmir (2-1) gave up two RBIs of the season came in his Cano led off the sixth with his home runs — including his third 51st at-bat. fifth homer, trimming the Angels’ to Robinson Cano this season — In the seventh, the switch-hit-lead to 5-4. It was his seventh hit but got the win after allowing four ting Morales got the green light on in 31 at-bats against Kazmir. runs, three hits and four walks in a 3-0 pitch from Damaso Marte 5 1-3 innings. with two outs and hit a three-run Athletics 11, Indians 0 
Javier Vazquez (1-3) threw 78 shot to left-center. In Friday’s Eric Chavez hit a two-run dou­pitches in just 3 2-3 innings, giving series-opening 6-4 win, Morales ble and also singled in run to help up five runs, five hits and three hit a tiebreaking two-run homer Gio Gonzalez win for the first time walks. The 33-year-old right-han-off Joba Chamberlain in the eighth in three starts, and the Oakland der hasn’t made it through the inning. Athletics pounded the Cleveland sixth in any of his four starts, sur-Cano, who homered twice Indians on Sunday to take the rendering 20 runs in 20 innings. against Kazmir on April 15 at series. Last year, Vazquez pitched at least Yankee Stadium in the left-han-Eric Patterson homered and hit six innings in 28 of his 32 starts der’s season debut off the disabled a two-run triple, matching his with Atlanta. list, had to bail out of the batter’s career high with three RBIs. 
New York had won its first five box on the first pitch he saw from Kevin Kouzmanoff returned to series, including a three-game set the left-hander in their rematch. the A’s lineup and added a three-Cleveland, which hasn’t won a stop Marco Scutaro’s diving bid. against the Angels in the Bronx, to The next one hit Cano on the run double. He sat out Saturday to series in Oakland since July 29-31, J.D. Drew doubled in a run and tie the 1926 Yankees for the most backside, and he went to first base give him time to heal after fouling 2002, was blanked for the fourth scored on Bill Hall’s single, but consecutive series won by the without incident as manager Joe a pitch off his foot. Kouzmanoff’s time. Boston’s rally ran out of gas. franchise at the start of a season. Girardi and trainer Steve Donohue fifth-inning hit chased Justin Oakland had lost four of six, but Darnell McDonald fouled out and 
The Angels spotted the Yankees went out to check on him. Masterson (0-3). gained some momentum with a Scutaro hit a liner to second base-a 3-0 lead before Abreu launched Jorge Posada hit the very next For Chavez, this was an encour-nice win before taking off for a man Ty Wigginton to end the a solo shot to right with two out in pitch into the trees behind the aging sign after several frustrat-six-game trip beginning with two game. the third. It was his 259th career center field fence for his fourth ing, injury-filled seasons. The six-in Tampa Bay starting Tuesday Boston starter Tim Wakefield 
time Gold Glove third baseman is and ending with a four-game left with a runner on first and a 4­now the A’s designated hitter bat-series in Toronto. 1 lead in the seventh, but Hideki ting in the cleanup spot. The A’s played without catcher Okajima gave up Nick Markakis’ 
Chavez, limited to eight games Kurt Suzuki for the second RBI double and Tejada’s tying in his injury-shortened 2009 cam-straight game as he deals with homer that caromed off the left­paign, drove in three runs for the tightness in his left side. Suzuki field foul pole. first time since June 3, 2008, hopes to return Tuesday night With speculation that Wakefield against Detroit. He underwent against the Rays. will be taken out of the rotation season-ending back surgery last when Daisuke Matsuzaka returns June and has had five operations Orioles 7, Red Sox 6 from the disabled list next week-since Sept. 5, 2007, including two Rhyne Hughes singled in the go-end, the 43-year-old knuckleballer microdiscectomy surgeries in dif-ahead run in the 10th inning was charged with two runs and ferent spots in his back. Sunday and Matt Wieters followed seven hits, and was saluted with a 
Jake Fox and Adam Rosales with a two-run single, helping the standing ovation when he left each singled in a run as the A’s did Baltimore Orioles snap a 10-game after 6 2-3 innings. plenty to support Gonzalez (2-1), losing streak against the Boston Manager Terry Francona hasn’t who escaped a bases-loaded jam Red Sox with a victory that was identified which starter in the fourth but otherwise was their third win of the season. Matsuzaka will replace. hardly challenged. Gonzalez Miguel Tejada added a two-run Unlike Wakefield’s last start bounced back after he was tagged homer for Baltimore, which over-when the Texas Rangers set a club for five runs and three hits in 4 1-came a 4-1 deficit to avoid its record with nine steals, the 3 innings of a 7-3 loss to the New fourth straight series sweep Orioles had just one. York Yankees on Tuesday. against the Red Sox. Boston chased David Hernandez 
Chavez got everything started. Jim Johnson (1-1) allowed two during its four-run sixth. Youkilis He doubled in the first, then runs in the bottom of the 10th, — Hernandez’s last batter — tied added the RBI single in the third. and had to leave with runners on it at 1 with a single to center. After 
The 32-year-old Chavez was first and second. Cla Meredith got hitting a long foul high off the ready for a fresh start this season. the final two outs for his first save. Green Monster, David Ortiz, who He ended last year with one hit in Kevin Youkilis had a double and entered with a .156 average, hit a his last 22 at-bats. He hit .100 two singles for the Red Sox, who tiebreaking RBI single off Mark with one RBI. That’s after he went 4-6 on their 10-game home-Hendrickson. played in only 23 games in 2008, stand. Drew added a sacrifice fly and and 90 in ‘07. The Orioles loaded the bases pinch-hitter Mike Lowell hit an 
Chavez picked up his 726th run with no outs against Scott RBI double off Jason Berken to on Kouzmanoff’s double, moving Atchison (0-1) before Hughes, who make it 4-1. him past Sal Bando and into sole struck out with two runners on in Hernandez gave up three runs possession of fourth place on a 7-6 loss Saturday in his first and four hits and five-plus Oakland’s career list. major league game, singled to innings. 
The A’s earned their third right. Wieters then grounded one The Orioles grabbed a 1-0 lead shutout and second of the series up the middle and through a in the second on Craig Tatum’s after winning 10-0 Friday night. drawn-in infield, just past short-RBI single. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

eight miles from Notre Dame. We more money for your textbooks, are registered on the Niles free dorm room pickup,
WANTED FOR SALE FOR RENT Chamber of Commerce web site. PERSONAL 
chamber@nilesmi.com. For more fast payment, 
info, call (269)687-8499. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do SUMMER WORK Dad & Mom, gradrentals.viewwork.com ——————————————— not go it alone. Notre Dame has dormbooks.com great pay, flexible schedules, no ask your accountant if student ——————————————— New upscale apts. Less than 1 mil many resources in place to assist ——————————————— experience needed, customer son/daughter can Sublet Irish Row 2bd Apt Contact from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR you. If you or someone you love If you or someone you care about sales/service, ages 18+, Sam Krause- skrause1@nd.edu, 933. 2-story, 8 unit bldg. Each has needs confidential support or assis-has been sexually assaulted, www.workforstudents.com “manage” Rent Negotiable 2bd/2bath. GE appliances w/dish-tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at we can help. ——————————————— this 4br, 2b house. ——————————————— washer. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. ND &SMC Students -Graduation week/Football Season No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo For more information, visit Notre campus job - textbook buyer during Call Lois McKinley, is coming - Make reservation now starting. For more information, visit ND's Dame's website: finals week - $10+/hour-dorm-with Georgia Peach Bed and Call Holiday Inn Express @ 968-web site: books.com Coldwell Banker 574-360-6071. Breakfast with four bedroom. (We 8080 &amp; leave msg. http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu http.csap.nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— will rent the house). We are located ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, April 26, 2010 page 15 
Men’s Division I Baseball Baseball America 
team previous 
1 Arizona State 3 2 Virginia 2 3 Texas 4 4 Georgia Tech 5 5 UCLA 1 6 Florida State 6 7 Florida 7 8 LSU 8 9 Arkansas 9 10 South Carolina 10 11 TCU 11 12 Coastal Caro. 12 13 Louisville 13 14 Miami (Fla.) 15 15 Claifornia 21 16 Cal State Fullerton 22 17 Arizona 24 18 Oregon NR 19 Mississippi 14 20 Virginia Tech 20 21 Connecticut 25 22 Stanford NR 23 Vanderbilt NR 24 Oklahoma 16 25 Southeastern La. NR 
Women’s Division I Softball ESPN.com / USA Today 
team previous 
1 Washington 1 
2 Michigan 2 
3 Arizona 3 
4 Florida 4 
5 Alabama 5 
6 Georgia Tech 7 
7 UCLA 8 
8 Oklahoma State 9 
9 Arizona State 6 
10 Georgia 11 
11 Stanford 10 
12 Louisiana State 13 
13 Oklahoma 12 
14 Texas 15 
15 Missouri 14 
16 Oregon 17 
17 California 19 
18 Tennessee 18 
19 Illinois 20 
20 Florida State 16 
21 Texas A&M 21 
22 Massachusetts 22 
23 Hawaii 25 
24 Ohio State 24 
25 NOTRE DAME RV 


around the dial 
NHL Hockey 

Capitals at Canadiens 7 p.m., Versus 
NBA Basketball 
Trailblazers at Suns 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL 


Hawks Hossa avoids suspension for hit 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Chicago Blackhawks forward Marian Hossa avoided a suspension from the NHL for his hit on Nashville defenseman Dan Hamhuis and will be in the lineup for Game 6 of the first-round, Western Conference series. 
NHL disciplinarian Colin Campbell conducted a hearing with Hossa on Sunday and decided that no further penalty would be assessed. Hossa was spared, in part, because he is not a repeat offender. 
Hossa shoved Hamhuis from behind into the boards Saturday and drew a major penalty late in reg­ulation that carried into overtime. Hossa returned to the ice and scored the winning goal on his first shift back, giving Chicago a 5-4 victory and a 3-2 series lead. 

“I have made the decision that this play does not war­rant supplemental disci­pline after considering all of the facts, including reviewing the video and speaking with Mr. Hossa,” said Campbell, the NHL’s executive vice president and director of hockey operations. 
Hamhuis said Sunday that he is sore, but added that he expects to play in Game 6 at Nashville on Monday night. 
Predators coach Barry Trotz compared the hit on Hamhuis to one delivered by Washington’s Alex Ovechkin that injured Blackhawks defenseman Brian Campbell last month. Campbell broke his collar­bone on the play, and Ovechkin was given a two-game suspension. 
“This play is distinguish­able from recent incidents by a number of factors,” Campbell said, “including the degree of contact involved; the fact that the consequences of the play do not appear to be as severe; that this was a hockey play involving a race for the puck; that Mr. Hossa is not a repeat offender, and that the call of a major penalty by the referee was signifi­cant and appropriate.” 
Because Ovechkin was also suspended for two games earlier this season for a knee-to-knee hit on Carolina defenseman Tim Gleason, he was punished more harshly for his hit on Campbell because of his status as a repeat offend-er.The Predators are back in the playoffs, but the Blackhawks have eyes on the NHL’s biggest prize. 
After the game went to overtime, the Blackhawks killed the remaining 3:57 of Hossa's penalty. The Predators are the only team in this year's playoffs with­out a power-play goal. Their latest failure with the game on the line pushed the drought to 0 for 21 with the advantage. 
IN BRIEF 
NCAA approves two new bowl games for 35 total next year 
INDIANAPOLIS — The NCAA has approved 35 bowl games for the next four years, including two new ones: the Dallas Football Classic and the New Era Pinstripe Bowl in New York. 
The NCAA said Friday that the bowls were licensed on a four-year cycle for the first time, though they will be reviewed each year. The move puts the licensing schedule — from 2010-11 through 2013-14 — in line with the length of bowl conference agreements. 
The first Pinstripe Bowl will be played at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx on Dec. 
30. It will include the No. 3 team in the Big East and the No. 6 school in the Big 12, excluding Bowl Championship Series participants. 
The first Dallas Football Classic at the Cotton Bowl is planned for New Year's Day 2011, involving the seventh-ranked team from the Big 12 against the sixth-ranked team from the Big Ten. Future games will include Conference USA. 

Bucks GM Howard takes NBA executive of the year award 
MILWAUKEE — Bucks general manag­er John Hammond took the time to look over the list of names for NBA execu­tive of the year, including Hall of Famers such as Jerry West and Red Auerbach. 
So he felt his name was a little out of place. 
“I kind of think what’s John Hammond from Zion, Illinois doing sitting here right now?” he said Saturday, with the award sitting just to his right, before the Bucks played the Atlanta Hawks in Game 3. 
Hammond becomes the first Bucks executive to win the award, after Milwaukee finished the regular season with 12 more wins than last season and earned its first playoff berth since 2006. 
Bucks owner and U.S. Sen. Herb Kohl hired Hammond, who had been Joe Dumars’ assistant in Detroit, just over two years ago to rebuild the flounder­ing franchise. 
Falcons QB Redman donates to father’s team 
JEFFERSONVILLE, Ind. — Atlanta Falcons quarterback Chris Redman has contributed a big gainer for his father’s new football team at south­ern Indiana's Jeffersonville High School. 
Redman, a former University of Louisville star, gave the Greater Clark County Schools Educational Foundation a $5,000 check on Friday that could grow to $15,000 through matching grants from foundations established by Falcons owner Arthur Blank and the National Football League. 
“He’s trying to utilize his resources to make a difference,” said Chris Millman, a spokesman for the Falcons. 
The check and the matching funds it’s expect to attract will be used to buy football equipment at the school, said Marty Bell, the school district’s chief operating officer. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 26, 2010 
NHL 

Top-seeded Sharks move forward in playoffs 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. — Coach Todd McLellan preached the impor­tance of being able to overcome obstacles before the San Jose Sharks opened the postseason. 
The top-seeded Sharks proved they could do just that in a tougher-than-expected first-round series against the Colorado Avalanche. They overcame deficits in games and the series, fluky bounces and bad breaks before finally knocking out the eighth-seeded Avalanche with a 5­2 victory in Game 6 in Denver on Saturday night. 
“We faced adversity, faced over­time games, close games and now we are moving on,” defenseman Dan Boyle said after scoring the game-tying goal in the third peri­od Saturday. “You know you are going to have your ups and downs in a playoff series. You are going to fall behind in a playoff game and you can’t quit.” 
Boyle was the central figure in the lowest moment of the series. San Jose outshot Colorado 50-16 in regulation of Game 3 only to be forced to go to overtime because Craig Anderson turned aside every shot. 
Then in the opening minute of the extra session, Boyle innocently tried to send the puck around the boards to teammate Douglas Murray in his own end of the ice. But Ryan O’Reilly stuck his stick in the way at the last instant, catch­ing enough of the puck to redirect it between goalie Evgeni Nabokov and the right post to give Colorado the victory and a 2-1 series lead. 
But instead of folding as they have in past playoff disappoint­ments, the bad bounce seemed to galvanize the Sharks around their star defenseman as they won the final three games of the series. 
“Danny Boyle has been there all year for us,” said captain Rob Blake, who had his own tough moment when the game-winning goal in Game 1 was redirected off his skate and into the net. “He stepped up when we needed it. He got us into it and then we took over.” 
Boyle scored the first goal early in Game 4 to help San Jose even the series with a 2-1 overtime win and the Sharks dominated in a 5­0 victory in Game 5 at home. Then after falling behind 2-1 early in the third period of Game 6, Boyle scored the tying goal to start a run of four straight San Jose goals that sent it into the second round. 
Now the “nightmare” that was Game 3 for Boyle will be mostly a footnote to this series. 
“You never get over something like that,” said Boyle, who won a Stanley Cup with Tampa Bay in 2004. “You grow from every situa­tion. I’ve been in the league for 11 or 12 years now and that was something new for me.” 
Boyle had a strong series with two goals, four assists and a plus­5 rating. But the key for the series was the play of what had been San Jose’s second line. 
Joe Pavelski, Devin Setoguchi and Ryane Clowe combined for nine goals and 13 assists for the series, outshining the more her­alded gold medal line of Joe Thornton, Dany Heatley and Patrick Marleau, which managed only one goal for San Jose. 
Pavelski scored the game-tying goal in the final minute of Game 2, erasing the fifth one-goal deficit of the game, before Setoguchi won it in overtime. Pavelski scored the overtime winner in Game 4 and the game-winner in the third peri­od in Game 6 as he led all players with five goals in the series. 
“There was not going to be any quit on our part,” Pavelski said. “We wanted this one. We knew we were going to get our chances, a couple of chances. Let’s bury them when we get the opportunity and they went in.” 
Now all the Sharks can do is wait to find out their second-round opponent, which won’t be determined until the other three series in the Western Conference have concluded. 
The earliest San Jose is expect­ed to start the second round is Thursday but Game 1 could be as late as Sunday depending on how quickly the other first-round series end because of an Eagles concert scheduled for the Shark Tank on Friday and Saturday nights. 


McLellan gave his team the day off Sunday and practice will resume Monday. 
“We have a lot of work ahead of us,” Nabokov said. “We’ll enjoy it for a couple of days and get back to work. This one wasn’t easy and we don’t expect it to get any easi­er with our next opponent.” 
NBA 

Wade scores 30 in second half of Heat win over Celtics 
Associated Press  coach Erik Spoelstra. Heat forward  Quentin  points and 12 rebounds, Paul Pierce scored 16 and Ray Allen  
MIAMI  — Dwyane  Wade  Richardson went even further,  added 15 for Boston, which was  
watched the 3-pointer drop per- likening his teammate to a super- bidding for its first 4-0 sweep of a  
fectly through the net, then  hero.  series since 1986.  
turned upcourt and extended the  “Sometimes, you know, he puts  “It’s not a big deal,” Rondo said.  
fingers on his right hand.  on the cape, man,” Richardson  “We just have to close it out now  
And he screamed.  said. “There’s not a lot of things  in five. We’re confident.”  
“In kid-friendly terms,” Wade  you can do when he’s playing that  So is Miami.  
would say later, “I was telling him  way.”  Especially Wade.  
he was hot.”  Boston would concur.  Leg cramps kept him off the  
That hand — that player — had  The Celtics still lead the best-of­ court for the deciding moment of  
never been hotter in a postseason  seven 3-1, and get a chance to  Game 3, the jumper that Pierce  
game, either. And that’s why  close it out in Boston on Tuesday  hit at the buzzer to give the  
Miami’s season isn’t over.  night. But their worst fear came  Celtics a 100-98 win. So he spent  
Playing what might have been  true Sunday.  Saturday getting his body right,  
his final game in Miami, Wade  Miami has hope.  chugging fluids, jumping into the  
scored 46 points, 30 in the sec­ “They did what they were sup- cold tank, hanging out in the pool  
ond  half  — both  franchise  posed to do, which is defend the  with his mother Jolinda, visiting  
records  — and the Heat beat the  home court,” Celtics forward  from Chicago.  
Boston Celtics 101-92 on Sunday  Kevin Garnett said. “And now  On Sunday, it showed, never AP  
in  Game  4  of  their  Eastern  we’re thinking the same thing  more than down the stretch. Miami guard Dwyane Wade goes up for a shot untouched by Boston’s  
Conference first-round series. He  going back home.”  He shot 5 for 6 in the fourth Ray Allen and Rajon Rondo during the Heat’s win Sunday.  
made 16-of-24 shots, 5 of 7 from  Richardson scored 20 points  quarter and made all four 3­ 
3-point range, and outscored the  and Michael Beasley added 15 for  pointers, all coming in a 5-minute  Wade will opt to become a free  the second quarter, though, and  
Celtics 19-15 in the fourth quar­ the Heat, who wasted an 18­ stretch and the last putting Miami  agent after the season, and on  Boston began chipping away.  
ter.  point, first-half lead before dig- up 93-82 with 6:12 remaining.  the slim chance that this was his  Thanks in large part to Glen  
“Phenomenal,” Celtics coach  ging deep to extend the season.  “I just thought, time to be  final home game in Miami, it was  Davis tripping over his own feet  
Doc Rivers said.  Rajon Rondo led the Celtics  aggressive,” Wade said. “Very  nothing short of scintillating.  and tumbling to the court in a  
“Greatness,”  offered  Heat  with 23 points. Garnett had 18  aggressive. So I was shooting all  “He just put it all on his shoul­ green heap, Beasley had an alley- 
those shots, no matter what was  ders,” Pierce said. “And did a  oop dunk with 8 minutes left until  
going to happen. And I started to  good job of it.”  halftime, putting Miami up 42-24.  
make a couple, so I got hot at the  Trailing by six entering the final  The rest of the half was all  
right time. Just wanted to will my  quarter and needing a rally to  Boston, which quickly turned the  
team to this victory.”  keep the season alive, Miami  arena mood from celebratory to  
Of course, it’s never easy for  opened the fourth on a 25-8 run,  concerned. The Celtics outscored  
Miami against Boston.  fueled mostly by Wade. He hit a  Miami 19-7 to close the second  
The Celtics were 6-0 against  pair of 3-pointers about a minute  quarter, with the Heat making six  
Miami this season, and had won  apart, stopping after the second  turnovers and missing eight of  
14 of the last 15 between the  one to scream at his right hand,  their next nine shots after the  
clubs since April 2007. And yes,  giving Miami an 85-80 lead.  Beasley dunk, and the lead was  
Boston made a big run, getting  “When his back is against the  down to only 49-43 at the break.  
within 96-92 on a free throw by  wall,” Spoelstra said, “it’s an  “They played how they were  
Allen with 2:36 left.  utter defiance.”  supposed to play,” Allen said.  
Then a funny thing happened.  Miami played that way pretty  In the third, Wade did the spec- 
Or, more precisely, three funny  much all day.  tacular. Boston did the steady,  
things.  Garnett scored the opening  which worked better.  
Not only did Allen  — a 91 per- basket, only to have Miami reel  Wade drove past Allen down  
cent foul shooter this season  — off the next 12 points. Richardson  the middle of the lane, dunked  
miss the second, he missed two  made his first four shots, three of  over the outstretched arm of  
more with 1:50 left, keeping it a  them from 3-point range, staking  Garnett and walked into the sec- 
two-possession game. And when  Miami to a 15-5 lead.  ond row of seats, tying the game  
Dorell Wright missed a jumper  Wade scored 14 in the first,  at 64 as the crowd roared.  
with 1:29 left, Beasley swooped  Richardson ended up with 13,  But Garnett, Pierce, Allen and  
in, got the rebound and scored,  and the Heat seemed well on  Rondo all had big baskets late in  
AP  making it 98-92.  their way, up 31-14 late in the  the third, and the Celtics took a  
Boston forward Paul Pierce is he avily guarded by Miami’s Quentin  Exhale, Miami. The season will  opening quarter.  77-71 edge into the final 12 min- 
Richardson during the Heat’s 101-92 victory Sunday.  go until at least Tuesday.  That duo combined for two in  utes.  

Monday, April 26, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

James leads Cleveland over Chicago, 121-98 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO — LeBron James insisted there was nothing unusu­al about the shot, that he’s per­fectly comfortable taking it. 
Never mind that he unleashed it from nearly halfcourt. 
James’ jumper — from a spot that requires a heave for many players — was just part of the show on a day when he delivered his fifth career postseason triple-double with 37 points, 12 rebounds and 11 assists. That led the Cleveland Cavaliers to a 121­98 victory over the Chicago Bulls on Sunday and a 3-1 lead in their first-round series. 
“I’ve done some great things in the past, I’ll do some great things in the future,” he said. “But we’re in the present now, and I’m feeling pretty good.” 
The Cavaliers led by 10 at half­time after scoring 38 in the second quarter and broke it open with a 37-point third, putting them in position to close it out at home on Tuesday. 
James was at it again after scor­ing 40 and 39 the previous two games, connecting whenever he wanted and from wherever he wanted. He was 6 of 9 on 3-point­ers, including a jumper from just inside midcourt at the end of the third that made it 99-76. 
“I can comfortably shoot that shot,” James said. “It was a regu­lar jump shot for me. Comfortably, I can walk and dribble into a half-court 3.” 
James certainly made it look easy against the Bulls. 
“He was extremely active all over the place,” coach Mike Brown said. “He really set the tone defensively. He was terrific for us on the weakside. He was great for us on the ball, and he talked defense the whole game.” 
He had plenty of help from Antawn Jamison, who scored 12 of his 24 in the third quarter, not to mention Mo Williams (19 points). 
Chicago got 21 apiece from Derrick Rose and Joakim Noah, who also pulled down 20 rebounds, but the Bulls settled for jump shots once they fell behind. Now, they are on the verge of their second straight first-round exit after a thorough beating by the Eastern Conference’s top seed. 
“I just think we weren’t very tough mentally today,” Noah said. “We were playing good ball and then just collapsed. We’re a young team and have to learn from this.” 
The Cavaliers were simply locked in after a two-point loss in Game 3. They shot 53 percent and outscored Chicago 40-34 in the paint after being dominated there 94-70 the previous two games. 
The Bulls were leading 43-40 after Luol Deng hit a 17-footer with just over five minutes left in the half. Then, Cleveland took over. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 26, 2010 
WOMEN’S ROWING 

Irish claim Big East crown 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
In what Irish coach Martin Stone described as “perfect conditions” on Lake Quinsigamond in Worcester, Mass., Notre Dame claimed the Big East title for the seventh consecutive year Sunday. 
“There was a little bit of a headwind, but nothing that was unmanageable,” Stone said. “We just powered right through it.” 
Not only did the Irish win the crown, but they blew well past the field, scoring 121 team points, 28 points ahead of run­ner-up Georgetown. The day culminated in a very comfort­able six-second victory in the marquee varsity eight event. 
“We won every event except for the novice four, in which we were second. We had a great team performance all the way around,” Stone said. “We swept it one year in ’07, but this might be the next best number of wins at the event for us.” 
Stone said he was proud of his team’s ability to overcome any early challenges to their leads and to create and hold comfortable margins. 
“In each of the races, you get 

a c c o l a d e s .  the varsity eight  
Stone and  c o m p e t i t i o n  
a s s i s t a n t coach Joe S c h l o s b e r g were named  “We had some goals in place, and we accomplished all of  alone that could earn a victory. “It’s tough and it’s traditionally  
Coaching Staff of the Year; seniors Casey Robinson and  them, so it was great. We did really well today.”  been a very great showcase of women’s row­ing,” he said.  
Brittney Kelly  “We’re looking  
and junior  Martin Stone  forward to it—  
S t e p h a n i e G r e t s c h  Irish coach  we’re starting to show some  
earned first- speed, and we’ll  
team all-Big  go from there.  

NBA 

Boozer, Williams score big for Utah 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY — Carlos Boozer had 31 points and 13 rebounds, Deron Williams added 24 points and 13 assists, and the Utah Jazz held off a late charge to beat the Denver Nuggets 117-106 on Sunday night for a 3-1 lead in their Western Conference playoff series. 
Carmelo Anthony finished with 39 points and led the Nuggets back within range late in the fourth quarter, but Denver never caught all the way up and lost for the third straight time in the series. 
Game 5 is Wednesday in Denver, where the Nuggets will need to win at home to stay alive. 
The Jazz controlled the first three quarters, seeming quicker and more deter ­mined than Denver while chasing down loose balls and firing up the fans with every hustle play. The frustrated Nuggets battled foul trouble, losing Chauncey Billups while trying to rally in the fourth quarter. 

Denver trailed by 18 enter­ing the final period but was able to get within 113-106 on back-to-back 3-pointers from Anthony, but that was as close as it could get. 
C.J. Miles scored 21 and Wesley Matthews added 18 points for Utah. The Jazz led by as much as 20 and had the Nuggets off balance until Anthony led a surge early in the fourth. 
Anthony converted a three-point play, then hit a 3­pointer to cut Utah’s lead to 90-79, but he was called for his fifth foul with 8:45 left to play when he got tangled up with Williams while going for a rebound. Anthony pleaded to the officials while still on his back outside the lane, but there was no changing the call and he was carrying five fouls for the third straight game. 

Anthony sat for a couple of minutes and the Nuggets were still trailing 98 -85 when he returned. Denver put together a few more runs that got it close enough for Jazz fans to get quiet and worry, but Utah was able to hang on. 
Kenyon Martin and Chauncey Billups scored 14 apiece for the Nuggets. Nene and J.R. Smith both scored 10. 
Boozer converted a three-point play to put Utah up 74­54 with 5:40 left in the third, capping a 13-3 run. Anthony got in a layup just before the buzzer to get Denver within 86-68 entering the fourth quarter. 
Williams had 11 points and six assists at halftime and led a 10-2 run in the second quarter after Denver had pulled within three. He con­verted a three -point play during the spurt, driving the length of the court and drawing a foul on a layup while the Nuggets scrambled to get back, then hit a 3­pointer when Denver’s defense failed again. 
Nene bit hard on a head fake when Williams made a half step toward the basket, then Williams backed off behind the arc for a 3-point­er that put the Jazz up 54-43 with 2:30 left in the second quarter. 
NHL 

Canucks upset Kings with three late goals 
challenged at some point. We dealt with the challenges pretty well,” he said. “In multiple cases we had the lead and established very good margins 
– we cleared the field.” 
The team’s success earned the Irish multiple conference 
The next step for the Irish is the South/Central regional event in three weeks in Oak Ridge, Tenn. Stone said he anticipates an extremely com­petitive, wide-open field that will push Notre Dame to its best; he sees up to 12 boats in 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Daniel Sedin scored the tiebreaking goal with 
2:03 to play, and the Vancouver Canucks rallied from another third-period deficit to finish off their first-round series against the Los Angeles Kings with a 4-2 vic­tory in Game 6 Sunday night. 
Roberto Luongo made 30 saves while keeping Vancouver close in its third straight victory over Los Angeles, and Kevin Bieksa tied it early in the third period for the third-seeded Canucks. 
Sedin then skated in to collect a loose puck and snapped a shot over goalie Jonathan Quick, send­ing Vancouver to the second round of the Western Conference playoffs for the third time in four seasons. 
Drew Doughty and Alexander Frolov scored and Quick stopped 18 shots for the sixth-seeded Kings, who struggled to finish close games in their first playoff appearance since 2002. 
Steve Bernier scored an early goal for Vancouver, and Alex Burrows put his first goal of the postseason into an empty net with 
1:07 left. 
Mikael Samuelsson failed to score a goal for the first time in his remarkable series, but still earned two assists — including an accidental helper on Sedin’s deci­sive goal when he apparently broke his stick on a slap shot — to finish with 11 points. 
Vancouver roared into the sec­ond round, possibly to meet Chicago for the second straight year, after trailing in the third period of Game 4 while Los Angeles had a 2-1 series lead. 
The Canucks dominated the series’ next 80 minutes, scoring four goals to win Game 4 at Staples Center before routing Los Angeles 7-2 in Game 5 at home on Friday night. Vancouver fin­ished the series on a 15-5 run over the final seven periods. 
While Luongo had perhaps his finest performance of the series in Game 6, Quick’s late-season struggles never disappeared for long, even while Los Angeles earned a playoff berth. He failed in eight straight tries to earn his 40th victory of the winningest sea­son for a goalie in Kings history, and he gave up five goals — along with two empty-netters — in the third periods of Los Angeles’ final two home playoff games. He also was pulled from Game 5. 
Although Los Angeles’ dominant power play had cooled in the pre­vious two games, the Kings scored both goals in Game 6 moments after power plays ended. 
Frolov opened the scoring by gathering the puck behind the net, holding off Henrik Sedin with an arm while circling and firing a shot past Luongo in the far corner. The inconsistent Russian hadn’t scored a goal in the first five games against Vancouver. 
Luongo kept the Canucks’ deficit from growing much larger while Los Angeles outshot Vancouver 4 to 1 for most of the first 30 minutes. The Canadian Olympic star made his most spec­tacular save on Ryan Smyth’s point-blank chance midway through the second period, rolling to the ice while making an improbable glove stop above his prone body. 
Moments later, Bernier evened it just eight seconds into a power play when he deflected a shot by Alexander Edler after Sean O’Donnell’s weak clearing attempt. 
Los Angeles increased its shots advantage during another power play, and Doughty put the Kings ahead with a shot through traffic late in the second period. But Bieksa tied it again, slipping a low shot between Quick’s pads for the first playoff goal of his NHL career. 

East honors while senior Sarah Keithley, junior Katherine Linnenstons, and freshman Stephanie O’Neill were named to the second-team squad. Despite the honors, Stone put the focus on his team as a whole. 
“I think our kids did a really, really great job,” he said. “We had some goals in place, and we accomplished all of them, so it was great. We did really well today.” 
We have a long time between now and regionals.” 
For now, though, the Irish will savor the feeling of contin­uing a dynasty before prepara­tion for future postseason com­petition. 
“We’re excited and we’re happy,” Stone said. “We’ll enjoy it probably ‘til tomor­row.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Irish rake in eight top-five finishes 
Observer Staff Report 
In their final chance to com­pete before the Big East Championships, the Irish put together some strong perform­ances at the Drake Relays and the Hillsdale’s Gina Relays over the weekend. 
Notre Dame tallied eight top-five finishes between the two meets, led by senior Joanna Schultz’s second place finish in the 400-meter hurdles at the Drake Relays. 
Junior Jasmine Williams won the women’s triple jump as seven Irish athletes placed in the top five at the Gina Relays. 
In the men’s triple jump, freshman Patrick Glass and sophomore Connor Paladino finished fourth and fifth, respectively. Freshman Trent Sayers finished third in the men’s 800-meter run. 
Junior Justin Schneider won the men’s pole vault as fresh­man teammate Jim Merchun earned a fourth place finish. 
Freshman Chrissy Finkel placed fourth in the women’s pole vault. 
Sophomore Andy Hills placed sixth in the men’s hammer at 
52.82 meters. 
After the Big East champi­onships, the Irish will take part in three competitions before the NCAA Regionals. 
The Michigan Invitational will take place May 7 and 8 in Ann Arbor. The North Central Invitational will be three days later in Naperville, Ill., and the final match before the NCAA Regionals is the Louisville Last Chance meet, set to take place May 14. 


Monday, April 26, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
TENNIS 

US advances to final round 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — Bethanie Mattek-Sands and Liezel Huber put the United States into the Fed Cup final with a 6-3, 6-1 doubles victory over Russia’s Elena Dementieva and Alla Kudryavtseva on Sunday. 
The Americans will meet defending champion Italy for the second straight year in the final Nov. 6-7 at an undetermined site in the United States. The U.S. has won a record 17 times, the last coming in 2000. 
Mattek-Sands beat Ekaterina Makarova 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 in the second match Sunday to keep the U.S. title hopes alive in the best-of-five contest. Sixth-ranked Dementieva’s 7-6 (7-4), 0-6, 6-3 win over Melanie Oudin had put the Russians up 2-1. 

“It’s an amazing effort,” U.S. captain Mary Joe Fernandez said. “It’s always tough to have to play back-to-back, but the good news is Bethanie is used to it. On a weekly basis, she plays singles and doubles. The tough part is her singles match was a very physical match.” 
Italy advanced to its fourth Fed Cup final in five years with a 5-0 victory over the Czech Republic. 
Mattek-Sands became the first American to win consecutive live matches — fourth singles and then doubles — to close out a Fed Cup tie since the best-of-five format was adopted in 1995. 
Fernandez (1996) and Lindsay Davenport (1995) are the only Americans to win two last-day live matches. Mattek-Sands had a hectic 30-minute break between matches, soaking in hot-cold showers, retaping her feet and stretching. She had to finish eating during breaks in her match. 

“I was really pumped,” Mattek-Sands said. “I always want to win, whether it’s playing singles, doubles or charades. I was ready to go.” 
Makarova had subbed for a struggling Kudryavtseva in the second reverse singles with Russia trying to nail down the win before getting to Huber, the world’s No. 1 doubles player. 
Huber and Mattek-Sands also secured a spot in the final with a doubles win over the Czech Republic last year — after drop­ping a set and coming down to a tiebreaker on the second. Huber is 3-0 in decisive Cup doubles matches. 
“Before going on the court, I was like, ‘Is this real? Is this really coming down to dou­bles?’” Huber said. “Then I looked at myself in the mirror and said, ‘This is why you play and why you work hard.’” 
With only three players mak­ing the trip, Russian captain Shamil Tarpischev had to pair Dementieva and Kudryavtseva for the first time in their careers 
— without the benefit of practic­ing together. 
“It was very hard to go into the doubles match without any prac­tice and play against the No. 1 in doubles,” Dementieva said. “We were hoping to win the singles match and not go into the dou­bles.” 
The third straight tightly con­tested match between Oudin and Dementieva put the Americans in a 2-1 hole Sunday. 
NBA 

Spurs top Mavs by three, lead series 3-1 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO — If Spurs coach Gregg Popovich hasn’t already done so, he may want to apologize for calling his role players “dogs.” 
Because they put the Dallas Mavericks on the brink of elimi­nation. 
Tim Duncan had a miserable 34th birthday and Manu Ginobili looked as bad at times as his bandaged-up nose. But George Hill scored 29 points and San Antonio beat the Mavs 92-89 on Sunday night to take a 3-1 lead in their first-round series. 
Popovich called out his sup­porting cast after losing Game 
1. It was his Big Three who had little bark in Game 4, but Hill carried the load with one of the best games of his career. 
“George Hill was something else,” Popovich said. 
The Spurs have won three straight since Popovich’s tongue-lashing, and they’ve put the No. 2 seed Mavs on the edge of their third first-round exit in four years. 
Game 5 is Tuesday night in Dallas. 
It could be a rough-and-tum­ble elimination game. 
Tempers flared as the Mavs threw away a 14-point lead in the third quarter, none more so than when Eduardo Najera was ejected after hooking a hand around Ginobili’s head and sending him belly flopping to the floor. 
A livid Popovich leaped from his chair and began stomping toward the basket before being slowed down by his assistants. Minutes earlier, Richard Jefferson and Jason Terry had to be separated when words escalated in the third quarter. 
Officials rang up three fla­grant fouls. Just more fuel on an already intense Texas rivalry. 
Dallas might need to tap into that aggression to stay alive. 
It was three years ago that the top-seeded Mavericks were shocked in the playoffs by eighth-seeded Golden State. Dallas is now in danger of get­ting ousted by the No. 7 Spurs. 
Only eight teams have come back from being down 3-1 in a best-of-seven series. 
The Mavs can no longer count on shutting down San Antonio’s Big Three as enough. Hill was 11 of 16 from the floor, while Jefferson scored 15 points and Antonio McDyess had 10. 
Duncan had four points and made just 1-of-9 shots — a roaring success for Dallas, con­sidering Duncan scored at least 25 points in the first three games. Tony Parker scored just 10 points off the bench after having 23 points in Game 3. 
Ginobili scored nine of his 17 in the fourth quarter, but made just 4-of-16 shots. He wore a bandage across his broken nose that went from cheek-to-cheek, forgoing the discomfort of a face mask. 
Dirk Nowitzki and Caron Butler had 17 apiece for Dallas, the NBA’s best road team during the regular season. But the Mavs couldn’t leave San Antonio with a win, and they have to push the series to a Game 6 to earn another shot. 


SMC TENNIS 

Belles sweep Bulldogs in conference contest 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles opened their final week of action before the MIAA championships with a 9-0 win over conference oppo­nent Adrian Saturday. 
The win gives the Belles (10-8, 3-4 MIAA) the opportu­nity to reach .500 in confer­ence play if they defeat Olivet today. 
Junior Jillian Hurley defeat­ed Robyn Denney at No. 1 sin­gles with a 6-0, 6-3 win, while senior Camille Gebert won her match at No. 2 singles with a 6-1, 6-2 decision over Katelyn Simcina. 
“It was very important for us to play solid against Adrian,” Gebert said. “We needed a big win and we needed momentum for our confidence. I think everyone was pretty satisfied with the results.” 
At No. 3 singles, junior Franca Peluso also won in straight sets, defeating Adrienne Hasse 6-2, 6-0 and junior Jessica Kosinski won at No. 4 singles, 6-3, 6-0, against Adrian’s Shelby Kruszewski. 
At No. 1 doubles, the combi­nation of Hurley and junior Mary Therese Lee picked up another win, defeating Denney and Sarah Brooks 8­1. 
Gebert and Peluso added a win to the Belles’ total by defeating Hasse and Kruszewski 8-2. 
After their match against Olivet, the Belles will prepare all week for the MIAA Tournament. The champi­onships will take place Friday and Saturday. 
“I don't think anything is going to change for us this week as we head into the MIAA championships,” Gebert said. “We are ready, we have worked hard and we know all of the teams we will be facing. Now all we have to do is bring the goods and hope for a good draw. I am excited at the chance to take another try at either Kalamazoo or Albion.” 
The Belles will take on Olivet today at Michigan State at 3 p.m. 
“Against Olivet, we have to remember to play our own games,” Gebert said. “It will be nice change of pace to play indoors tomorrow; we always play better indoors.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 26, 2010 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Blaney’s fve goals carry ND 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
No. 12 Notre Dame split a pair of close contests against tough opponents in the final portion of its regular season schedule. The Irish (10-5, 5-2 Big East) defeated regional rival Ohio State 12-11 Thursday, but lost a heart-breaker to conference oppo­nent Rutgers 12-11 in over­time Saturday. 
Sophomore attack Maggie Tamasitis was the hero for the Irish at Ohio State, tallying the winning score with just 24 sec­onds left on the clock. Junior midfielder Shaylyn Blaney scored five goals, including four in the second half to keep the Irish close. 
The win at Ohio State was huge for an Irish team with NCAA Tournament aspirations, Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. 
“Ohio State is a tough place to play,” she said. “They’re trying to play their way into the tournament and playing a game like that helps you know where you stand nationally.” 
Notre Dame started the sec­ond half strong and jumped out to a 9-5 lead 10 minutes into the second half before Ohio State responded, scoring three unanswered goals to cut the lead to 9-8, before eventu­ally tying the game at 11. 
“The game wasn’t pretty, but in the end with Ohio State we just found a way to win,” Coyne said. “It was a big win for us.” 
Notre Dame was unable to keep the momentum going from the big win against the Buckeyes, as they saw their five-game winning streak snapped in a hotly-contested 12-11 overtime loss to Rutgers. 
A poor first half killed the Irish as Rutgers scored the first six goals and went ahead by a score of 7-1. 
“The first half was less than optimal. We just did not per­form,” Coyne said. “We didn’t come out ready to play and compete.” 
Coyne said Notre Dame’s lackadaisical performance sur-prised her on many fronts. 

“I wish I had the answer but I can’t explain it, quite frankly it was shocking to see them not get it together,” Coyne said. “There was a lot riding on this game so [their lack of performance] makes it difficult to answer.” 
The Irish roared back in the second half, outscoring Rutgers nine to four and send­ing the game into overtime. Blaney and senior attack Gina Scioscia had seven total tally’s in the second half to get the Irish back into the game. The Irish comeback was jumpstart­ed by four goals in a span of 1:36. 
“We’ve demonstrated throughout the season that we can play with everyone,” Coyne said. “The way we played in the second half is the way we’re capable of playing.” 
Despite a couple of good scoring chances in the game’s final minutes, the Irish were unable to find the tiebreaking goal, and in overtime, Rutgers star Brooke Cantwell scored the game-winner with just 
2:02 remaining. 
“Despite everything that happened we still had a good opportunity to win the game at the end,” Coyne said. “We did-n’t show up for 60 minutes and now we lost control of our own destiny [in the conference standings].” 
The Irish loss was a tough setback for a team that has its sights on a possible conference championship. With one game remaining in the regular sea­son, the Irish will hope to get back to their winning ways against Connecticut Saturday at noon. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish take three from Villanova in two days 
“Tying these school records 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
is a really proud moment for 
Sports Writer 

me,” Valdivia said. “Being part of the Notre Dame soft-The No. 23 Irish had a ball history is a once in a life-dream weekend Saturday and time opportunity. I wouldn’t Sunday at Melissa Cook be able to achieve any of this Stadium, sweeping Big East without my teammates. We rival Villanova in three win all of our games together games. and it is their hard work and Senior Christine Lux and dedication that has given me 
junior  Jody  this  great  
Valdivia tied  opportunity.”  
three school and confer- “We hope to continue  Sophomore A l e x a  
ence records between the two of them Sunday when  on the same path we have been going and keeping up the wins in  M a l d o n a d o had her own special day S a t u r d a y ,  
Notre  Dame  order to fnish out the  going 5-5 at  
(38-9, Big  15-3 East)  Big East.”  the plate, driving in  
defeated the  four  runs,  
Wildcats 10-0  Jody Valdivia  scoring four  
in  five  junior pitcher  more and set  

innings, with eight runs coming in the second inning. Notre Dame had six hits and used three Villanova errors in the second to fuel its outburst. The Irish defeated the Wildcats 8-0 and 11-3 in Saturday’s two games, both of which lasted only five innings. 
“Our entire team has been taking it one game at the time and that has been the approach that has been get­ting us the wins so we wanted to stick with it,” Valdivia said. 
Lux celebrated her senior day Sunday by tying former Notre Dame player Jarrah Myers’ (1999-2002) Big East career record for RBIs with 
64. Lux went 2-3 on the day with an RBI single in the sec­ond inning. 
Valdivia pitched a two-hit shutout with four strikeouts in 69 pitches for her third straight win against the Wildcats. Her 15th shutout matches the Irish single-sea­son record set by Terri Kobata 16 years ago and her win total matches Brittney Bargar’s (2006-2009) school record of 30 set in 2008. 
new career 
single-game 
highs in hits and RBIs with three of each. 
“Obviously our bats were working this weekend,” Valdivia said. “Our team came off of the week with a bad taste in our mouths so we really wanted to prove something against Villa-nova.” 
Notre Dame outscored Villanova 29-3 in the series. 
“Not sweeping Villanova was not an option,” Valdivia said. “Our entire goal this season has been putting our­selves in the best position for Big East, and a Villanova sweep was a necessity.” 
The Irish stay at home this week to take on Bowling Green Wednesday at 3 p.m. for a doubleheader at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
“We hope to continue on the same path we have been going and keeping up the wins in order to finish out the Big East,” Valdivia said. “If we continue to play our game, we are going to be unstoppable.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


Monday, April 26, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
BASEBALL 

Mills’walk-off saves the day 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
In a season full of breaks not going their way, the Irish finally caught the biggest break of the season in the bottom of the ninth inning Sunday. Playing in the pouring rain, senior designated hitter David Mills tomahawked the offering from Cincinnati clos­er Andrew Burkett over the left field fence to give Notre Dame a 5-4 victory in walk-off fashion. 
“I don’t know how that ball one, stayed fair, or two, made it over the fence,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. “It was slicing off the bat and the wind was blow­ing in over the right field wall, so it should have pushed it foul. It’s slicing off a lefty, and somehow it blew back the other way and made it over the fence.” 
Sunday’s action was the con­clusion of Saturday’s game, which was suspended in the fifth inning due to inclement weather. Notre Dame took a 4-2 lead heading into the ninth inning, but coughed up two runs in the top half following two errors in the field and a wild pitch. 
Mills’ blast secured the series victory over the Bearcats (19-19, 5-10 Big East) and marked the fifth win in the last six confer­ence games for the Irish (17-22, 7-8). The solo blast was also the first walk-off home run at Frank Eck Stadium since 2006. 
“The way the weekend was going, it was a huge hit for us — it won the series,” Schrage said. “The way that we lost the lead in the ninth inning in back to back games, it really picked the team up for us.” 
Mills is tied for the team lead in RBIs with 26, but has undoubtedly been Notre Dame’s most valuable player over the last two weeks. A versatile ath­lete, Mills has served capably as a reliever, an outfielder and, most importantly, as a timely hit­ter. 


“He’s done a tremendous job on the mound,” Schrage said. “He’s had some clutch hits. I don’t think you can ask much more of a player. He’s done a great job in relief, and now he just continues to get some big hits for us — just having a great season.” 
After an 8-12 start to the sea­son, the Irish have reemerged in the second half to improve to seventh overall in the confer­ence. Schrage believes the sen­iors have taken it upon them­selves to salvage the remainder of the season in the hopes of a conference title in their final opportunity. 
“A lot of the seniors like David Mills are stepping up,” Schrage said. “They know these confer­ence games are very important each weekend. We’ve just talked about winning series and mov­ing on to the next one.” 
Notre Dame takes on Toledo Tuesday at home before putting its conference record back on the line Friday against St. John’s. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Grill 
continued from page 24 
DeMott, Tim Andree and Nick Fessler. 
“This has been three years in the making for us,” Crisman said. “We’ve been wanting this for a long time. It was a great game.” 
Second-year law students Chuck Flynn and Brendan Rush, first-year law earning the support of the crowd and all of the momen­tum. 
Alexander’s Grill, however, stayed calm on both ends of the floor, tightening up its defense and hitting enough shots to keep the lead. Late in the game, Reed started finding the open man and making plays to open up a comfortable margin late in the contest despite Jared’s late switch from a zone to man-to-man defense. At 20­

student Fritz “This has been three 15, DeMott Shadley, senior fought through a
years in the making
Alex Shadley and foul to sink a sophomore Chris for us.” layup, giving his Jung made up He team a long-Went to Jared, awaited champi-
Dan Crisman 
the No. 2 seed in onship. 
Alexander’s Grill junior 
the tournament. Crisman said 
The three law students and two undergraduates, clad in tie-dye, started the game with the ball and imme­diately scored on the first pos­session. Alexander’s Grill relied on a zone defense that applied consistent pressure on the Jared offense while Crisman dictated its own offen­sive rhythm. 
Assisted by some cold shoot­ing from Jared and a momen­tum-shifting charge taken by Crisman, Alexander’s Grill took an 11-5 lead into halftime. 
The teams traded baskets out of the break, and Alexander’s Grill began to cool off just as their opponents heated up. With the score at 13-8, Jared reeled off a 5-2 run to pull within two points, his team’s suc­
cess in the 
championship game was due to the effective­ness of his team’s zone defense and ability to make difficult, needed shots. 
“We played great team defense all around,” he said. “I was lucky enough to get a number of shots to fall throughout the game.” 
After a run through the tour­nament filled with its share of challenges, Alexander’s Grill was thrilled to earn the long-elusive trophy. 
“I’m just really happy right now,” Crisman said. “Hopefully we can get dinner on the house over at Alexander’s.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

Krebs’ hat trick leads to second Big East victory 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish captured their second Big East victory in a row with a 13-6 road win over St. John’s Saturday. 
“[The win] was one we had to have,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “Now we have some momentum going into this 
Senior goalkeeper Scott Rodgers started between the pipes and played most of the game, making 13 saves. Senior Brendan Moore finished the effort in goal by playing the final eight minutes and had three saves. 
With wins over Providence and now St. John’s, the Irish have built momentum heading into their biggest game of the sea-

weekend.” “It’s not just that we son against Big Corrigan was East frontrunner 
won these two games, 
pleased with the and two-time 
play of the but that we played defending nation-offense, defense well in both games.” al champion No. 1 and transition Syracuse game. Saturday in 
Kevin Corrigan 
“We played Arlotta Stadium. 
Irish coach
well in a lot of “It’s not just 
aspects of the game,” Corrigan said. “Other than maybe clearing the ball, we were effective in many different areas.” 
The Irish (7-5, 2-3 Big East) gained an early lead and did not relinquish it, never trailing in the 60 minutes of play. The first quarter did not have an abun­dance of scoring, but that changed in the second period of play. After the Red Storm tied the game at 2-2 with 11:37 remain­ing before halftime, the Irish scored eight unanswered goals to take a commanding lead. 
The Irish scored in many ways, getting contributions from both the midfield and attack. Senior midfielder Grant Krebs posted his fourth hat trick of the season, senior attack Neal Hicks and jun­ior midfielder Zach Brenneman each had two goals and an assist and sophomore attack Sean Rogers had two goals. 
that we won these 
two games, but that we played well in both games,” Corrigan said. “You don’t build confidence by anything other than successful repeti­tions.” 
After dropping their first three Big East games, the Irish can climb back into the NCAA Tournament picture. 
“The challenge is going to be a bit different against Syracuse,” Corrigan said. 
The Orange will come into Saturday’s match with a full head of steam. They have won nine straight, and their only loss is to No. 2 Virginia in a nonconference showdown in Charlottesville. 
“If we do all the right things, and I know we can, then we can come away with a win,” Corrigan said. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 26, 2010 
Montana 
continued from page 24 
pretty evident.” 
Sophomore tailback Cierre Wood, playing for the Blue team, began the game’s scor­ing with a three-yard run in the first quarter. In the third quarter, Woods broke free for a 44-yard touchdown run. On the day, he finished with 10 carries for 111 yards and two touchdowns. 
Not to be outdone, sopho­more running back Jonas Gray of the Gold team ended the third quarter with a 38-yard touchdown run of his own. 
Blue team. 
“The tight end position as you know we don’t take off the field,” Kelly said. “So we need that kind of depth. Ragone’s a tough kid. He’s going to help us. He’s going to move the chains for us … He’s very important in terms of what we’re going to be doing in the fall.” 
Montana connected with senior receiver Duval Kamara and sophomore receiver Theo Riddick for two more touch­downs in the second half. 
Freshman receiver T.J. Jones was the top receiver for the Blue team, with four catches for 56 yards and a 
touchdown. 
“It was 

Gray led his “If you’d seen some of great,” Jones team with said of the 
the practices leading
eight carries touchdown . for 57 yards. up to this, you’d be “Definitely one Kelly said writing that this thing of the best the play of the feelings I’ve 
is a disaster.” 
running backs had so far in was a high my life.” point in the Brian Kelly While the game. Irish coach game was set 

“I thought that we had some very good depth at the running back position,” Kelly said. “I thought today Jonas Gray ran hard with low pads, played physical, showed very good speed. Cierre Wood [and senior] Armando Allen were electric early on. 
“I would say that the run­ning back position is one that I feel really good after this game about the depth and the ability at that position.” 
Montana and senior tight end Mike Ragone put the Gold team on the board at the end of the first half with a four-yard shovel pass for a touch­down. Ragone caught six pass­es for 75 yards. Junior tight end Kyle Rudolph, whose play was limited due to his recov­ery from shoulder surgery, caught four passes for 39 yards while playing for the 
Kelly 
continued from page 24 
ent. 
Cierre Wood shined Saturday because Kelly moved sophomore Theo Riddick from running back to wide receiver, specifically to get Wood onto the field. Kelly’s emphasis on talent above favoritism also shows through in the performance of freshman early enrollee TJ Jones. After the game, Kelly said Jones would be starting at receiver if the first game was today. Even Michael Floyd did not start his first game with the Irish. 
Players such as Jones, as Wood did last year, have all too often watched from the bench upon arrival at Notre Dame. Kelly knows the key to winning is to get the best players on the field in the best situations, and that is what he is doing. 
Also showing promise Saturday was the Irish defense. 
Last week Kelly said the defense would be restricted somewhat in the spring game. Nonetheless, fans saw an aggres­sive unit Saturday. Yes, some agreed was a “vanilla” defen­sive scheme, the Gold defense was able to make some plays. 
up  for  the  
offense  to  be  
successful,  in  what  Kelly  

Junior linebacker Steve Filer led all players with 12 tackles, including two tackles for loss. Sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o finished with eight tack­les. 
“By and large it was their best practice,” Kelly said. “Believe me, if you’d seen some of the practices leading up to this, you’d be writing that this thing is a disaster. Today was a lot cleaner than we had been up to this point.” 
Te’o said the offensive plan was besides the point for the defense. 
“We were always taught by Coach Diaco, it doesn’t matter about the call, it matters what you do with the call,” Te’o 

tackles that should have been made were not made, but last season “some” would have been replaced with “numerous.” 
Defensive linemen got their hands up to deflect countless passes, at least one resulting in an interception, and linebackers swarmed to the ball in a manner Irish fans have been waiting to see for years. 
Saturday’s stats may not mean anything tangible. No one in their right mind expects Cierre Wood to rip off 44-yard touchdown runs with frequency this season, and if Steve Filer consistently leads Notre Dame in tackling, questions will surround Manti Te’o and Brian Smith. 
But Saturday’s look at next year’s Irish was encouraging nonetheless. Talent took priority, the defense was aggressive and The Shirt is green. 
Notre Dame football is headed in the right direction under Brian Kelly. In four months, hopefully the stats will prove it. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the writer and not necessarily of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
said. “So it didn’t matter what the call was, we knew that we had to get to the ball and when we get to the ball every­body has to rally, and that’s what makes great defense.” 
The Irish will now have some time off before resuming workouts in June. 
“We are moving through a process that really has a num­ber of stages, and this is just another stage,” Kelly said. “We have a huge number of stages in front of us.” 
Notes: 
.Saturday was Kelly’s first time coaching in front of a crowd at Notre Dame Stadium. 
“I will not understate the wow factor of coming into this incredible stadium,” he said. “Having said that, I’ve waited my entire life for this opportu­nity so I’m going to be pretty excited every game we play. For me, getting in this stadium and being in this environment, I can tell why it’s exciting. 

“Now, we’ve got to win some games. That makes it really exciting. And that’s what we’ll be looking forward to doing.” 
. About a dozen recruits were on campus for the Blue-Gold Game, and after the game, many of them said they were impressed by the overall performance of the Irish. However, before the game three recruits committed to Notre Dame. Linebacker Jarrett Grace and offensive linemen Conor Hanratty and Tony Springmann verbally accepted scholarship offers from Brian Kelly. Earlier in the week, cornerback Matthias Farley did the same. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
NFL 
continued from page 24 
“My goal is to try to be the starter from day one,” he said. “Whatever the coaches want me to do, I’m going to do it to the best of my ability. At the end of the day, if I’m good enough to play, then I’ll play.” 
Clausen said he first learned his wait was over when Fox called him shortly before the pick was announced. 
“I was playing pool with my family and friends and the phone rings. My brother Rick screamed at me and handed me the phone and it was coach Fox,” Clausen said. “I was really excited.” 
Clausen said the Panthers tried to move up in the draft to select him. 
“[Fox] told me they were trying to get up to the 32nd pick, but it didn’t work out,” he said. “[Fox is] really excited to have me on the team.” 
Former Irish receiver Golden Tate had to wait for 12 more selections than Clausen did before hearing his name called by the Seattle Seahawks with the 60th pick of the draft. 
“I just wanted to go into a good situation,” Tate said in an inter­view with Northwest Cable News after the draft. “I think Seattle will be a great situation for me.” 
Tate will be playing for former USC coach Pete Carroll, but beyond that, he said he does not know much about the Seahawks. 
“They have cool colors, that’s about the only think I know about them,” Tate said. “I’m excited to go there and show them I can play and help the team in any way they need me.” 
Former Irish linemen Sam Young (Dallas Cowboys, 179th overall pick) Eric Olsen (Denver Broncos, 183rd overall pick) also heard their names in the draft. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 



Monday, April 26, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
3 Applies, as pressure4 Stadium cheers 5 Kabuki sash 6 Guy's date 7 Night schoolsubj. 
8 Buddy Holly's“___ Be the Day” 
9 “The Treasure of the Sierra ___” 10Reverse, as an action 11 Scattering of an ethnic group
12Internet connection faster than dial-up
13“___-haw!” (cryof delight) 
18Street, in Paris 
19“There is ___ in .team'” 
23Former Texas senator Phil 
24“___ la Douce” 
25First-yearplayers 
27Pitcher Hershiser 
28___ Aviv 
30“Born Free” lioness 
31Title before Rabbit or Fox 
32End in ___ 
(come out even) 
33More secure 
34German/Polish
border river 
35Stow, as cargo … or an anagram of thelast word of 17-,35-or 52-Across 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  
32  33  34  
35  36  37  
38  39  
40  41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  

Puzzle by Andrea Carla Michaels 
36Started out (on), 44Sinew 
as a journey 46Like Santa's suit37Prefix with 
skeleton after going 38Tiniest drink through the 41Contemptuous chimney
looks 47Letter holder: 42N.B.A.'s ___ Abbr. 
Abdul-Jabbar 48Chum 
43Period of 
advancing 50Follow, as 
glaciers advice 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
51Seaweed used as food 
52Recipe amt. 
53“That's brilliant!” 
54___ center (communityfacility) 
55Energy inits. inthe South 
56Bottom line? 

Across 
1 J.F.K.'s predecessor4 Thesaurus creator 9 Roil, as the 
waters 14Film critic Reed 15Embarrass 16Licorice flavoring17All around, as on 
a trip20Common cold 
cause 21Spanish bulls22Suffix with disk 23Young and
feminine 26Money on a 
poker table29“Hel-l-lp!”30Dashing actor
Flynn31Ho-hum sort 32“Remember the 
___!” 33Horse color 35TV show with 
many doors38Last words of “Green Eggs
and Ham” 39Get by logic40“___ a fool to …” 
41Passover meal 42Caboodle's partner45Sleeplessprincess'bane46Heat detector, e.g.48Walk a hole in the carpet,

maybe49River of Arles 51Richard's partner
in the Carpenters52Move into first place in a race 57Pillowcase accompanier58Celebrate 
boisterously59Sense of self-importance
60Rice field 61Rascal 62Fellows 
Down 

1 Herds 2 Danny of “ThrowMomma From the Train” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Monday, April 26, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Montana, Wood star in spring practice fnale 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Alumni and fans at Notre Dame Stadium Saturday may have experienced some déjà vu as junior quarterback Nate Montana led the Gold team to a 27-19 victory in the annual Blue-Gold Game. 
Montana, a junior walk-on who spent the fall at Pasadena City College in order to gain more experience, finished 18­for-30 for 223 yards with three touchdowns and one interception. 
“I’m real far from [junior college],” Montana said. “And I think I’ve gotten a lot better since I came in here, especial­ly with the help from the coaches. Being coached and them helping me understand the offenses, is really helping me progress.” 
Junior quarterback Dayne Crist, who is recovering from off-season knee surgery, led the Blue team and finished the day 20-of-31 for 172 yards and one touchdown. He also threw two interceptions. 
While Crist is the obvious leader in the quarterback race, Montana may have secured a spot as the first backup. 
“Nate does some things real­ly well, and then I’ll lose him 

Spring stars 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Junior quarterback Nate Montana unleashes one of his 30 passes during the annual Blue-Gold Game Saturday. Montana completed 18 passes for 223 yards and three touchdowns in the scrimmage. 
for a couple of plays. It’s more tice season, in which Kelly got This is a process that we’ve about him playing,” Irish his first chance to work with entered into and we know that coach Brian Kelly said. “He the team. this is not a destination for us hasn’t played a lot of college “Today was a good evaluator but we got a chance to see football, and consistency is for us relative to all of our some things today that we can something he has to show.” players and finding out more build on and I think those are 
The Blue-Gold Game capped about them,” Kelly said. “It’s off Notre Dame’s spring prac-the first coat of paint for us. see MONTANA/page 22 
Changes apparent, but work not fnished yet 
What can we learn from a game in which the player with the best stats spent last season at a community college in Southern California? 
No offense to quarterback Nate Montana, but his 223 yards and two touch­downs don’t mean much to me. 
One aspect of Montana’s per­formance 

Douglas Farmer 
did impress me, though; the offense Sports Editor as a whole has a decent grasp of Brian Kelly’s complex offense. However, nobody on the field Saturday was in good enough shape to run that offense adequately. 
Fortunately, the Irish have four full months until Purdue arrives to open the 2010 season. Considering Kelly and his staff have only been at Notre Dame for four months, four more should do wonders. 
And that is reason to be excited. 
Kelly has already sparked more change throughout the program than was seen in the previous five years. With four more months, his mark, on and off the field, should only become more appar­
see KELLY/page 22 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Walk-onAndreewinstourney 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
In a matchup of the top two teams in the tournament, top-seeded Alexander’s Grill over­came the poor conditions and a late second-half charge from He Went to Jared to take the Bookstore Basketball title 21­15 Sunday. 
The first drops of rain came just as the captains met at half court before the game, and continued throughout the championship, making passing and shooting difficult. 
“The conditions were sub-prime,” said Grill’s Dan Crisman, a junior. 
Joining Crisman on Alexander’s Grill were junior Sean Reed and seniors Joe 
see GRILL/page 21 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Sean Reed of Alexander’s Grill drives to the hoop during the cham­pionship game of this year’s Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
FOOTBALL 

Clausen waits until second round for pick 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 

Former Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen was the first of four former Irish players drafted over the weekend in the 2010 NFL Draft. Clausen 
— widely expected to be drafted in the first round — had to wait until the 16th pick of the second round, the 48th pick overall, to hear the Carolina Panthers call his name. 
“I always said I wanted to get picked as high as I could but everything happens for a reason,” Clausen said during a conference call with the Panthers’ local media after the pick. “Obviously I wanted to go as early as I could but I’m in a great situation at Carolina. I keep saying it over and over again, but I can’t wait to get there and get to work.” 
Clausen enters a situation with the Panthers in which he could see playing time sooner rather than later. Jake Delhomme started Carolina’s first 11 games in 2009, but in the midst of a disappointing season, Panthers coach John Fox plugged Matt Moore, in his third NFL season, into the starting lineup for the final five games. The Panthers won four of those games, but Clausen said he expects to be given a chance to start. 
see NFL/page 22 







