the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Alcohol-related incidents spark concern 
Police make arrests 

Students should know 
and issue citations for 
their rights, attempt to 
minor consumption 
cooperate to avoid 
at off-campus parties 
trouble with drinking 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
News Editor 
Three people were arrested 
As the school year begins 
and two more were cited last 
and students attend off-cam­
weekend for minor consumption 
pus parties, local lawyers’ 
in off-campus areas heavily pop-
advice is to understand not 
ulated with Notre Dame stu­
only the law, but also the 
dents. The suspects were 19 and 
value of cooperative behavior 
20yearsold. 
in encounters with police offi-
Three of the suspects gave 
cers. 
Notre Dame campus addresses 
Notre Dame Law School 
and two gave out-of-state 
graduate Rudy Monterrosa 
addresses. 
said it is crucial for students 
These incidents came after 
to know the law. He practices 
police busted a party July 17 at 
law in South Bend and has 
1017 E. Washington St. and took 
experience defending stu­
43people to jailfor various alco­
dents charged with alcohol­
hol charges. Those arrested 
related offenses. 
included eight football players, 
“I do believe that it’s an 
one basketball player and nine 
issue that students do need to 
hockeyplayers. 
be aware of what their rights 
South Bend police responded 
are and what they can and 
to a call that a fight was occur-
cannot do,” he said. 
see ARRESTS/page 9 GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic see RIGHTS/page 6 


Fr. Warner selected as 12th Superior General 
By COURTENAY DEVLIN 
News Writer 
The Congregation of the Holy Cross has a new leader in Rome, and he’ll arrive from Notre Dame. 
Director of Campus Ministry Fr. Richard 
V. Warner was elected on July 16 to become the 12th Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Fr. Warner 

Cross in Rome. 
Warner graduated from Notre Dame in 1962 and received an honorary degree in 1987 from the University. He also studied theology at Catholic University in Santiago, Chile, and was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1966. 
“Fr. Warner has served Notre Dame with distinction in many and varied capacities, and we are collectively — and I am personally — indebted to him for his wise counsel, wit­ness to the Gospel and service to our campus and broader community,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said in a press release. 
After his ordination, Fr. Warner returned to Chile to teach English for six years before becoming the provin­cial treasurer for the Indiana Holy Cross Province. In 1979, he became Provincial Superior for the Indiana chapter. 
Warner, a counselor to then-University President Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy, became director of Campus Ministry in 1989 and has held the position for more than 20 years. 
In his new position, Warner will succeed Fr. Hugh W. Clearly. He will oversee the international missions and operations of the Congregation, founded in France in 1837 by Blessed Basil Moreau. Warner will work primarily from Rome, according to the release. 
The Congregation of Holy Cross is an order of more than 1,500 priests and has founded eight colleges and universities in the United States, including Notre Dame, and 45 second­ary schools worldwide, the release said. In addition to education, the Holy Cross is 
see WARNER/page 5 



Block Party returns to B1 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Saturday marks the return of the B1 Block Party, which will be held at 5 p.m. in the Legend’s parking lot and star Guster and Mayer Hawthorne, among others. 
The event was originally conceived after construction cancelled the annual student-run concert, “The Show.” 
“The Show didn’t have a 
place to go, and there really 
wasn’t anything going on at 
the beginning of the year last 
year so Legend’s decided to 
have it in the parking lot,” 
said Aaron Perri, general 
manager of Legends. “I don’t 
think it’s necessarily replaced 
The Show.” 
The Block Party may not have officially replaced The Show, but it drew a larger crowd last year than the annual show ever did. 
“It was a wild success last 
year. We had 5,000 people; it 
was bigger than The Show 
ever was. Even with five ticket 
booths, we couldn’t keep up 
with the line,” Perri said. “We 
couldn’t have been more 
pleased ... People just really 
embraced it.” 
While the Block Party is, in part, a concert, Perri reminds students that the Block Party 

Observer .le photo 
Musician Matisyahu performs at last fall’s B1 Block Party. Saturday marks the return of the outdoor Legend’s event. 
is unlike The Show in that it is on,” he said. “The idea behind about more than the music. it is that it’s really three He said he hopes students will attractions in one: the food, take advantage of all it has to the festivities, the music. We offer this year. actually have free food from 5 
“I feel like last year people to 7 p.m., so that’s something kind of thought of it just as a new from last year.” concert and didn’t realize there was a lot more going see PARTY/page 6 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Freshmen’s first week page 3  Comic-Con in Review page 12  Kelly pleased after Thursday practice page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, August 27, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 
XOXO, Observer 
It’s appropriate that I spend most of my time working for The Observer, because I specialize in observing. 
That’s my watered down term for picking out cer­tain individuals on campus and giving them just-obscure enough nicknames that my friends and I can talk about them. 
With two thou­sand new fresh-

Sarah Mervosh 
men to choose from and the 
News Editor
return of people watching in the dining hall, the beginning of fall semester is the most wonderful time of the year for us “observers.” 
Most of the time, it’s someone I have never met. But their insis­tence on wearing cute dresses to the DH on Saturday mornings instead of sweats like the rest of the hungover campus population, or their eerie resemblance to an armadillo, warrants my “observa­tion.” 
Sometimes, it’s someone who skirts the edges of my friend group. At least in this case they have some semblance of who I am, but I can’t decide if that makes it more or less creepy that my friends text me “Frills singing karaoke at a bar about her long distance relation­ship with JFK!!!” Probably more creepy, but it’s fine. 
Basically, if you work in student government, have hooked up with any of my friends or one of my friends wants to hook up with you, are a barista at Starbucks or always study in the same location, you are in danger of earning your­self a nickname. 
I’m sure I’ve earned myself one right now since my picture is next to this column. But do me a favor and at least make it creative enough that I won’t know you’re talking about me when I pass you in the dining hall. Changing Smerv to Smurf won’t cut it. 
For those of you sitting here being creeped out, don’t even try to pretend that you don’t do it too. Face it, campus “observing” is 10 times better than Facebook stalk­ing because you don’t actually have to be friends with the person to do it. 
All you need is to find out that that girl dressed as a mermaid for the theme party hooked up with the same kid you did. Or have a guy refuse to walk your friend home after breaking parietals, and soon your friends will be texting you things like, “Omg Ariel chatting it up with up Broken Legs at Feve.” 
At least for those of us who work for the Observer, stalking, er I mean “observing,” comes with the job description of being a journal­ist. 
So that’s my excuse. It’s not being creepy, it’s being professional. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR FAVOR TE CEREAL? 





Elizabeth Balderramma  Kyle Sandberg  Lauren Kelly  Lucia Tosatto  Tylor Gauger  
junior  junior  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
McGlinn  Alumni  off-campus  Ryan  Stanford  
“Special K.”  “Cracklin’ Oat  “Froot Loops.”  “Special K.”  “Honey  
Bran.”  Bunches of Oats  

and Oh’s.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Several Notre Dame students spent their Thursday afternoon playing cornhole and other games at a barbecue on South Quad, sponsored by the College of Engineering. 
OFFBEAT 
Man hit by flying fish during boat race 
COLUMBIA — A fish out of water sent a Texas kayaker onto dry land instead of the finish line at an annual Missouri River endurance race. 
Houston resident Brad Pennington was considered one of the favorites among men's solo racers in the Missouri River 340, a canoe and kayak race that began Tuesday morning in Kansas City, Kan. At least until a 30-pound Asian sil­ver carp jumped from the water and hit him in the head. The fish are known to panic and jump in response to passing ves­sels. 
"It felt like a brick hit me," Pennington said Wednesday. 
The 43-year-old lawyer already was having trouble steering his boat, a stream­lined model built for speed but not necessarily sturdy enough to withstand a river known for commercial transport. The fish flew as Pennington was trying to return to shore to repair his kayak, assisted by a competing three-man team 
Champion ham fetch­es $1.6 mil for charity 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Start baking those biscuits and stirring that red-eye gravy. Two donors have pledged a record $1.6 million for Kentucky's grand champi­on country ham. 
That works out to about $100,000 a pound for 16 pounds of Kentucky's favorite cured meat. 
The auction is the high­light of the Kentucky Farm Bureau's annual Kentucky Country Ham Breakfast at the state fair in Louisville. 
This year's winning ham was produced by Broadbent B&B Foods of Kuttawa in western Kentucky. 
Bernard Trager, chair­man of Republic Bank and Trust, and Dr. Mark Lynn & Associates, owner of Dr. Bizer's Vision World, con­tributed $800,000 each Thursday for the ham. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Shakespeare’s fairy tale “Cymbeline” will be performed tonight at 8 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $15 for stu­dents and $35 for general admis­sion. For more information call 574-631-2273. 
The annual RecSports Biathalon will take place Saturday at 10:30 a.m. at St. Joseph’s Beach, with registration beginning at 9 a.m. For more information call RecSports at 574-631-5100. 
The musical “Kiss Me Kate” will be performed Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. intheLeighton Concert Hall attheDeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $15 for students and $35 for general admission. For more information call the DeBartolo Box office at 574-631-2273. 
An opening reception for the McGraw and PauLlosa Collection Exhibit will take place Sunday from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. atthe Snite Museum of Art. All are welcome toattend. 
There will be an outdoor screening of the film “Planet Earth” this Sunday at 8: 30 p.m. on South Quad. Snacks and refreshments willbe provided. All students, faculty and staff are welsometoattend. 
The Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning and the Career Center are holding a workshop ”What Can We Do For You?” this Monday from 5:30 p.m. to 6:15 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. Registration is required. Please register online at 
kaneb.nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Today Tonight SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 

Friday, August 27, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Freshmen adjust to college life at ND 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Freshmen are feeling the pressure of juggling academics and a social life after their first few days on campus. 
Freshman Kaitlyn Keelin said the assignments have been stacking up. 
“I wasn’t really nervous,” she said. “I’m slightly overwhelmed by the readings already on the first day. I wasn’t ready for it.” 
Keelin, who is taking mostly general requirements, said she is still in the process of making friends and branching out on campus. Her roommate, Rebecca Moriarty, said she has made friends with mostly the other residents of her dorm. 
“It’s a lot different than what I expected,” Moriarty said. “Actually, I didn’t know what to expect.” 
Freshmen Bobby Hess and Taylor Nutter said the worst part of the first week didn’t come in the classroom, but rather in adding final touches to rooms and class schedules. 
“It’s been busy, but it’s been really nice. Everybody’s really kind here,” Nutter said. “I’m from San Diego, and I couldn’t take that much. I had to find all I needed here. I also got into [Introduction to Anthropology] with [Professor James] McKenna, so I’m really excit­ed.” 
Hess said his schedule was finally organized with his advis­er. 
“It was a shock at first to walk into a 250-person general chemistry class,” he said. “But my seminar is nice.” 
While some freshmen stress about making friends, Keelin is not worried because of the campus atmosphere. 
“I always heard people were friendly — that they go out of their way to help,” she said. “It was pleasantly unexpected.” 
Hess was worried about mak­ing friends while keeping his grades up before he got to cam­pus, but those fears subsided after learning he was living in Sorin College. 
Moriarty, whose mother attended Notre Dame, heard stories about friendships made on campus. 
“From that, I thought I would’ve had great friends by now, but it’s more than that,” she said. “You have to find peo­ple you want to be with.” 
Athletics seem to be the most anticipated social event. Both Moriarty and Keelin said they cannot wait for football season to begin, and Hess said he’s been attending games with his family for more than a decade, watching the student section. 
“I’m looking forward to being in the student section and doing all the cheers,” Moriarty said. 
Keelin is also looking forward to interhall athletics, specifical­ly soccer, although worries about balancing everything are also growing stronger. 
“I just feel stressed out about it already,” Moriarty said. “But I’ll be okay. I’ll just set my mind to it.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s campus undergoes renovation 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editorr 
Students returned to the Saint Mary’s campus to find some changes. 
Karen Johnson, vice president for student affairs, said most of the work was done during the summer, though students may still see some continuing into the fall. Many of the changes were made to directly benefit students, while others benefited students more indirectly and were designed to add beauty to the College. 
“All the work benefits the stu­dents, whether it is providing a more comfortable learning or living environment, or provid­ing a safer campus,” Johnson said. 
Johnson said new closed cir­cuit cameras were added to the Angela parking lot. These cam­eras were requested by stu­dents several years ago to cre­ate a safer environment in the parking facility. 
The College applied it, Johnson said. In addition to the cameras, card access was added to Angela Athletic Center. 
Johnson said Lake Marian was cleaned during the summer as well. Silt was removed from the lake and will be used as filler around campus. 
After several severe storms during June, seven trees were removed from campus and will be replaced, Johnson said. 
Additionally, the College changed the landscaping in sev­eral different areas on campus. Johnson said this was to remove old or overgrown plants. The Nature Trail received new markers, and foliage around the trail was trimmed. 
Johnson said several build­ings were upgraded. The roofs of Moreau Hall and the Science Hall are being replaced, and other building renovations include a new air handling sys­tem installed in Holy Cross Hall to better circulate fresh air throughout the building. The radiators in Holy Cross Hall were removed as well, allowing new convection heating units to be installed in every room. 
Regina Hall was the recipient of some new furniture. The College also repaired several sidewalks after requests from students last spring. 
“I absolutely think these things improve the campus,” Johnson said. “Any time you make upgrades and repairs you improve the campus environ­ment.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at amith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 27, 2010 
SMC students protest new Co-Exchange policy 
By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
Recent revisions to the Saint Mary’s Co-Exchange (Co-Ex) food services program have prompted College students to start a peti­tioninopposition tothe changes. 
The former Co-Ex program allowed Saint Mary’s students to use one of their meal swipes to receive a ticket to eat dinner free of charge at one of Notre Dame’s dining halls. In recent years, sev­enty-five daily tickets were offered on a first-come, first-serve basis, according to an e­mail sentto SaintMary’s students explainingthepolicychange. 
Beginning this semester, Saint Mary’s students will only be able to apply for aCo-Ex ticket iftheir commitments to classes or organizations atNotre Dame pre­vent them from eating during normal Noble Family Dining Hall hours,accordingtothee-mail. 
Saint Mary’s students who do not fit these criteria mustpayfull pricetoeatatNotreDame. 
“[The program] may exist for decades to come, but with a more focused intent. The pro­gram is not being eliminated,” Karen Johnson, vice president of student affairs at Saint Mary’s, said in an e-mail to the College student body. “It is being man­aged in a more efficient manner, so that Saint Mary’s students with a demonstrated need to be on Notre Dame’s campus at mealtime will get the Co-Ex tick­ets.” 
According to Johnson, the for­mer policy often prevented stu­dents with commitments at Notre Damefrom obtainingtickets. 
“[The change] is about better utilizing the tickets we distribute so the people who need them are getting them. We are happy to payforthemeals ofstudentswho have a demonstrated need to be on Notre Dame’s campus,” Johnsonsaid. 
Saint Mary’s and Sodexo, the College’s food service company, pay the for the number of Co-Ex meals each day because the mealsarenotincludedinanindi­vidual student’s meal plan, the e­mail said. According to the e­mail, the existing policy allowing Notre Dame students to eat at SaintMary’shasnotchanged. 
Sophomore Genevieve Spittler was a member of the Saint Mary’s swim team last year. Because practices were held at Notre Dame, she said she often missed College dining hall hours and used the Co-Ex policy to eat atNotreDame. 
“We never had problems get­tingCo-Exes,”shesaid. 
Caitlin Acherl, a junior in the Saint Mary’s ROTC program, agreedwithSpittler. 
“I understand the fact that [Saint Mary’s] needs to keep a budget,” she said. “However, I think they can limit the number of tickets while still keeping stu­dentshappy.” 
Several College students creat­ed a Facebook event titled “We Want Co-Ex’s Back” to protest to the new Co-Ex policy. Students who join the event are encour­aged to leave their e-mail address and short paragraph about the how the revision of the Co-Ex policyaffectsthem. 
Two of the event’s creators — juniors Maggie Pinnick and Grace Kenesey, who is a member of The Observer’s photography staff —plan to present a300-sig­nature petition to College PresidentCarolAnnMooney. 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, August 27, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
we will miss him and his min­istry at Notre Dame, we 
Warner 
continued from page 1 
actively committed to parish work and missionary out­reach. The Holy Cross cur­rently has a presence in 16 countries on five continents. 
“The General Chapter has made an astute decision in electing Fr. Warner to lead our congregation and, while rejoice that his talents will be shared in new ways around the world,” Jenkins said in the release. 
Please see page 16 for a related letter from Fr. Thomas Doyle, vice president for stu­dent affairs. 
Contact Courtenay Delvin at cdelvin@nd.edu 
Thirteen freshmen earn awardsforanthropology 
Special to The Observer 
The Center for Public Anthropology (CPA) has recognized 13first-yearstudentsforop-edarti­cles they submitted to its 2009–10 CommunityActionProjectcompeti­tion. More than 7,500 students from 28 U.S. colleges and universi­ties submitted work to the CPA op­ed challenge this year. Onlythe top five percent of entrants are given awards. 
Three students in the Social Science University Seminar taught by Vania Smith-Oka, Nancy O’Neill AssistantProfessorofAnthropology, received Public Anthropology Awardsinthespring2010roundof the CPA competition: Jordan Bai, TedGlasnow,andIsaacHarrington. 
Ten students in the Introduction to Anthropology course taught by Assistant Professor Daniel Lende and Associate Professor Ian Kuijt received awards in the fall 2009 round: Paige Aiello, Chris Allen, Woo Hyun Chun, Gabriel De Vela, JulianDeMelis,SaraKolettis,Phillip Lettieri, Catherine McDonough, ChristinaRogers,andAlexYdoate. 
Entrants were called on to address three questions about the returnofbloodsamplestakenfrom an Amazonian tribe in a 1968 research project—a controversial issueinanthropology: 
• 
Asstudentsofanthropology— the study of humanity — when should they act as global citizens, assisting people outside their own cultureandcountry? 

• 
After gathering information aboutthecontroversy,whatarethe objectivefactsoftheissue? 

• 
Based on their understanding of the facts and their beliefs about their social responsibilities, what action shouldtheytake in this con­troversy? 




page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 27, 2010 
the student was drinking. This lack of evidence makes 
Rights 
it extremely difficult to 
continued from page 1 charge the student with a 
misdemeanor, but they will 
Underage consumption of likely be booked into jail. alcohol by a person under “And that’s the catch-22 the age of 21 in Indiana is a that you’re in,” Monterrosa Class C misdemeanor and an said. “Between a rock and a arrestable offense, said hard place.” attorney Michael Tuszynski, If students take the breath-of Stanley, Tuzynski & alyzer test, Monterrosa said Associates in South Bend. it is still a police officer’s Underage students who are discretion whether to arrest stopped by police officers or issue a citation. are often issued citations, “I would tell you that typi-Tuszynski said, which are cally I don’t see too many also known as proxy arrests. people getting arrested for In these cases, the offender minor consuming,” he said. is released based on a prom-Tuszynski said students ise to appear in court when who are arrested must both summoned. post a bond and test below a 
The decision whether to certain blood alcohol level arrest or issue a citation is before they are released. at the discretion of an indi-Students who are on public vidual police officer in each property, such as a sidewalk, situation, although coopera-Monterrosa said, may be 
tion with the  approached by  
police  can  police officers.  
work to a stu­dent’s advan­ “I have to say if  In these cases, reasonable sus­ 
t a g e , Tu s z y n s k i said.  somebody’s having a party just keep it low  picion of under­age consump-tion of alcohol  
“A little bit  key and keep it inside  is required for  
of civility can  the house.”  a breathalyzer  
go  a  long  test.  
way,” he said. In the state  Rudy Monterrosa  “They call it a walk and talk,”  
of  Indiana,  Notre Dame Law School  he  said.  “In  
both  the  graduate  talking to them  

Indiana State Excise Police and city police can respond to situa­tions involving alcohol. According to the state of Indiana’s website, the Excise Police are the law enforce­ment division of the state’s Alcohol and Tobacco Commission. 
“South Bend Police, they’re in charge of enforcing the laws here in the city of South Bend,” Monterrosa said. “Excise police specifically target certain types of viola­tions.” 
City police typically would respond to a dispatch call such as a noise complaint about a party, Monterrosa said. They can issue cita­tions, make arrests and also call in a unit of Excise Police. 
When either South Bend or Excise Police arrive at the site of a party, Tuszynski said a warrant is typically required to enter a home. 
“The home is sacred under the Fourth Amendment as well as Article 1, Section 11 of the Indiana Constitution,” he said. 
If a police officer knocks at a door, asks to enter and is granted permission, Tuszynski said the require­ment for a warrant is waived. There are also exi­gent circumstances, which he said allow officers to enter a property without this permission. One such exam­ple would be a situation in which a person fled police by entering a home. 
“It’s extremely fact specif­ic,” Tuszynski said. 
Monterrosa said if police knock on a door and see what appears to be criminal activity, such as very young people drinking alcohol, they have the right to investigate the situation. 
Once inside a residence, police officers may ask stu­dents for their identification and request they take a breathalyzer test, Monterrosa said. Students may refuse this test, but it is more likely they will be arrested if they do so. Without a breathalyzer result, there is no evidence if they get any 
other informa­
tion of a crime being committed then they can follow through with that. So an officer can go up to you and talk to you, but I’d say that they need to have at least reasonable suspicion that some criminal activity is going on.” 
Once students have either been released from jail or issued citations, they will receive a court summons in the mail, which makes it crucial that students provide police officers with correct and current addresses, Monterrosa said. 
Tuszynski said prosecutors will file formal charges, and cases are then resolved in one of three different ways: trial, plea or dismissal. There is also the opportunity for a pre-trial diversion pro­gram, which would involve a fine, community service hours and potentially other conditions. There is no crim­inal conviction associated with this program. 
Monterrosa said the pre­trial diversion program is a preferable option for stu­dents because the case never goes to court. They can qual­ify for it if they have no past convictions. 
“By no means should they ever proceed with a criminal case,” he said. “Especially if you’re at Notre Dame or you’re at Saint Mary’s, you’ve already worked that hard to get to that point. 
“But I think that it’s very best to have misdemeanor conviction avoided at all costs.” 
If the pre-trial diversion program is completed, Tuszynski said it is impor­tant to understand the charges are never erased from a person’s record. When graduate schools or employers ask students if they have been charged with a crime, students must answer yes. These charges would also surface if a back­ground check is run on a student who had completed a pre-trial diversion pro­gram. 
Monterrosa said any traces of a charge may be erased through expungement, which can be done with the help of a lawyer, but is not neces­sary. Graduate schools and employers would only be truly concerned with whether an applicant had been convicted of a crime, he said. 
Regarding students over the age of 21 who host par­ties where alcohol may be served to minors, Tuszynski said the same legal process would apply. Posting a sign at a party forbidding drink­ing under the age of 21 might factor into the situa­tion, but it would not protect the student hosts. 
“I certainly wouldn’t rely on that,” he said. “When you have a party and you serve alcohol, you really kind of put yourself in peril.” 
While Monterrosa said it is easier said than done, the only way to avoid encounters with the police is to avoid minor consumption, public intoxication or hosting par­ties at which underage stu­dents are present. Once a student is in a situation with the police, he said it is most important to be cooperative because the final outcome is left to police discretion. 
“Certain things are going to happen depending on whether you cooperate or not with law enforcement,” he said. 
According to Monterrosa, students also need to under­stand that they are a part of the city of South Bend. 
“I have to say if some­body’s having a party just keep it low key and keep it inside the house, but I guess it’s easier said than done,” he said. “I think people just need to be aware of what the laws are.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Party 
continued from page 1 
Additional festivities include a rock wall, corn hole and a Eurobungy, which is similar to a trampoline with harnesses. There will also be a 21-and­over beer garden and food 
from Chick-fil Murphy’s and Jimmy John’s. 
While last year’s show was a fantastic success, Perri said he hopes this year’s improved Party will be an even bigger hit. 
“Five thou­sand’s a great number, and if we get to 5,000 
-A, Papa 
lines. This year, tickets can be purchased for 10 dollars online, at the LaFortune Student Center box office and at the entrance to the Block Party. 
“The tickets are only 10 bucks. We really try to keep prices down, even though the concert costs more,” Perri said. “Students should know if they buy tickets in advance, it 
“Students should know if they buy tickets in advance, it will really save them some time.” 
Aaron Perri general manager Legends 
will really save them some time.” 
Also returning is the B1 After Party, which sold out last year. DJ Whoo Kid, the DJ for 50 Cent, will be providing the after show enter­tainment. 
“The Block Party is a fantas­tic event ... 
again it really feels packed there in the parking lot, but we have room for every student,” he said. “We can accommodate about 8,000 out there.” 
With such a large crowd, Perri advises students to get tickets in advance to avoid long Legend’s is really proud to be able to present this and put it out there,” Perri said. “We hope this year students embrace it even more.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


Friday, August 27, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 page 8 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 27, 2010 Friday, August 27, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 9 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 
ring at the corner of Washington and Eddy streets and were dis­patched at 1:41 a.m., according to the police report. 
“When the officers got there, they realized the fight had spilled over from 1017 E. Washington, so officers went to that house and they called for more units because there was a large party there,” the report stated. 
The officer exited his squad car and heard glass breaking from the rear of the house. A white male ran out from behind 
“If the individuals
the building and below. continued to run are too intoxicated to Several mes-when police sages left for the 
walk, then we’ll 
ordered him to South Bend police 
incarcerate.” 
stop. Officers were not pursued him on returned. foot, but were Lt. Tim Cleveland Student body 
unable to catch president
district excise police
him, the report Catherine Soler 
commander
said. 
People also jumped out of windows and from the roof of the residence, the reportsaid. 
South Bend police called Indiana State Excise Police to assist them and were at the house for about an hour. It took three trips using the South Bend prisoner transport van and patrol vehicles to transport all of the suspects to St. JosephCounty Jail,thereportsaid. 
The suspects were kept in jail until their blood alcohol content levels returned to zero. For many of them, this took several hours and they were released the next morning. 
The decision to arrest was made by the South Bend police, said Lt. Tim Cleveland, excise police commander for the dis­trict in which the incident occurred. 
“The decision was made before our officers arrived,” he said. 
He said excise police make the decision to arrest based on cir­cumstances. 
“If the individuals are too intoxicated to walk, then we’ll incarcerate,” Cleveland said. 
The blood alcohol levels for those arrested at the July 17 incident ranged from .02 to .16 percent. Twelve of the 43 indi­viduals arrested had blood alco­hol content levels of .05 percent or 
said student gov­
ernment is aware of these recent incidents and is “putting forth efforts to protect students, keep them safe and allow us to have fun while respecting the law and our neighbors.” 
Soler also said she is compiling reports of the incidents and encouraged anyone who has knowledge of an incident to con­tact studentgovernment. 
“We want people to come and tell us so we know what’s going on,” she said. “So when we talk to people we have testimonials.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Beck rally to be held on ‘Dream’ day 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Glenn Beck says it’s just a coincidence his Restoring Honor rally on Saturday at the Lincoln Memorial will take place on the anniversary and at the site of Martin Luther King Jr.’s famous “I Have a Dream” speech. Civil rights veterans are skeptical. 
“This is going to be a moment that you’ll never be able to paint people as haters, racists, none of it,” Beck says of the event featuring Sarah Palin and other conservative political and cultural figures. “This is a moment, quite hon­estly, that I think we reclaim the civil rights movement.” 
“When we heard about Glenn Beck, it was puzzling,” the Rev. Al Sharpton said. “Because if you read Dr. King’s speech, it just doesn’t gel with what Mr. Beck or Mrs. Palin are repre­senting.” 
Beck, a popular figure among tea party activists and a polar­izing Fox News Channel per­sonality, is headlining the event, and Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee and a potential 2012 president candidate, will be a prominent speaker. But Beck told his television audience again on Thursday that it’s not aboutpolitics. 
The event’s website says the rally is to pay tribute to America’s military personnel and others “who embody our nation’s founding principles of integrity, truth and honor.” It also is to promote the Special Operations Warrior Foundation, which provides scholarships and services to family members of military members. 
The website urges citizens to attend and “help us restore the values that founded this great nation.” 
The rally, on the 47th anniversary of King’s plea for racial equality is drawing a strong reaction — and several counter-rallies — as the nation looks toward November’s elec­tions. 
Beck is known for his strong opinions, including his state­ment that President Barack Obama is a racist; he later told CBS’ Katie Couric that he was “sorrythe wayit was phrased.” 
But organizers of Saturday’s rally are telling attendees not to bring signs, “as they may deter from the peaceful mes­sage we are bringing to Washington.” 
Signs at some tea party events have included pictures of Obama embellished with a Hitler-style mustache, racial epithets and threats to Democratic officials. Such posters have given tea party critics grounds to claim the loose organization of activists is motivated by racism against the nation’s first black presi­dent. 
“Dr. King never had to ask anyone to leave their signs and guns at home,” said Benjamin Todd Jealous, president of the NAACP. “To say to your follow­ers, don’t bring your signs — it’s like saying don’t open your mouth.” 
“The 8-28 rally is supposedly is about ‘reclaiming the civil rights movement,’ but it is being led by someone whose idea of a racist is the president of the United States,” said Jess Levin, a spokesman for the lib­eral Media Matters for America. “This rally is about one thing and one thing only. And that’s promoting Beck’s political agenda.” 
Elsewhere in Washington, civil rights activists planned to mark Saturday’s anniversary of the landmark 1963 speech with rallies and demonstrations, some ending on the National Mall. One group planned a four-story sculpture in honor of King near the Washington Monument. Others planned to meet at aWashington school. 
Sharpton’s National Action Network planned a “Reclaim the Dream” rally featuring Education Secretary Arne Duncan, National Urban League president Marc Morial andMartin Luther KingIII. 
In an opinion piece for The Washington Post, King said of Beck’s event that it’s “com­mendable that this rally will honor the brave men and women of our armed forces who serve our country with phenomenal dedication.” But he also said it was clear the organizers were invoking his father’s work. 

The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, August 27, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Pat Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Amanda Gray Meaghan Veselik Molly Madden Molly Sammon Caitlin Housley Scene 
Graphics Courtney Cox Blair Chemidlin Viewpoint Michelle Maitz 
Take advantage of start-of-school activities 
Students, take advantage of it: You’re being treated like kings now. With more free stuff than you can possibly use, and signs ushering you gently from ID Card registration to the correct bathroom in DeBartolo, you probably won’t experience coddling like this until you enter a retirement home 50 years from now. 
The first week back to school is traditionally filled with free food, such as the picnic after the Opening Mass, and culminates in a concert put on by the Student Activities Office. The various student activity organizations have done an admirable job, so far, of making the transition to college life more exciting and carefree. 
With the pageantry of football weekends still a week away, the main campus entertainment this weekend will happen just outside the foot­ball stadium at the B1 Block Party. 
While The Show, the traditional back-to­school concert, had a weak showing with Good Charlotte in 2008 (and finally went on indefinite hiatus when it lost its venue in the JACC in 2009), Legends’ B1 Block Party is filling the void. Bringing in rising artists like last year’s Eric Hutchinson and Matisyahu was a great start, and the event seems to have truly hit its stride by booking college-cult-favorite Guster as the headliner for this Saturday. 
Legends should be commended for making this event affordable while still cramming in as much as the B1 parking lot can allow. For only $10, Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students will get to see Guster and Mayer Hawthorne, but admission also cover several carni­val-type attractions (including Eurobungy), performances by student bands Nick Gunty & the Powers Five and Identity Crisis, as well as a “happy hour” with food from several restaurants. With an expanded beer garden for the 21 and over attendees, Legends is also clearly striving to bring in more upperclassmen to what is sometimes seen as an extension of Frosh-O. 

General Manager of Legends Aaron Perri told The Observer he expects Saturday’s event to surpass last year’s 5,000 tickets sold. While the B1 Block Party can boast about a head count, it’s undeniable that the bevy of other activities this week (glow in the dark putt-putt, the Senior BBQ at Stepan, soccer games and volleyball match­es) have attracted an enthusiastic turn out because they provide three of the things college students love: free food, a chance to socialize and a way to avoid thinking about classwork. 
Tonight, all over campus, students can take part in Irishenanigans, a series of giveaways, sporting events and other activities organized by SAO. Whether it be laser tag 
on North Quad or a mechanical bull on South 
Quad, the obvious effort by SAO to get students 
out of their dorms and into the nice evening 
weather before it becomes time to hibernate 
through the South Bend winter. 
But boredom and restlessness are on the way. 
Make a point to stop by Activities Night at the 
JACC next Tuesday, August 31. Only through continued student involvement and enthusiasm can these organizations keep producing new events, sprucing up traditions and throwing out free stuff. (Not to mention publishing newspapers.) 
If you don’t keep busy, you’ll start to notice the small number of back-to-school nuisances. 
Freshman, you’ll get used to sprinklers showering you as you walk on the sidewalks in the early evening, having to navigate around the iron fences obstructing obvious quad shortcuts and learning to tune out the upperclass­men complaining about the increase in price for quarter dogs at the Huddle. 
So students, especially seniors, don’t let all this free food and fun pass you by. Chances are you won’t find a lot of sub sandwiches or glow-in-the-dark putt-putt greeting you when you start your first job in nine months. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It does not matter how slowly you go so long as you do not stop.” 
Confucius Chinese philosopher 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Friday, August 27, 2010 page 11 
My summer experience hanging out in the dugout 
As the semester begins, and before everyone settles into their routines, a window of opportunity exists whereby students offer themselves to new friendships. Their openness shows with the sparkling twinkles in their eyes. Soon that will­ingness to make new friendships withers as classes and homework con­sumes each day. But during the school 

Gary Caruso 
year’s brief social introductory period Capitol of time, the most Comments over-asked question surely is, “What did you do this sum­mer?” 
For me, the highlight of my summer came when I met avid baseball fan and Supreme Court Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor — less than a year after her confirmation — in a softball dugout for five innings during a cancer survivor’s charity game played by a bipartisan, bicameral team of female members of congress. Justice Sotomayor’s low-key arrival quickly turned into a pied-piper style walk to the dugout as well wish­ers greeted her and cell phone cam­eras frantically clicked. The energy around Sotomayor rippled like the wave along the bleachers as she made her way to the dugout. 
Upon her entrance into the dugout where I served as one of the congress­women’s coaches, senators and repre­sentatives alike swarmed for pictures and autographs. Republican house members who, if sitting in the senate at the time of Sotomayor’s confirma­tion, would have been bound by ideolo­gy to vote against her, respectfully requested photo ops and autographs with genuine graciousness. It was one of the rare moments in Washington when political affiliations were removed from an event, reminiscent of the pre-Gingrich political era. 
Anyone who spent more than a minute with the justice would attest that Sotomayor’s infectious smile and down-to-earth demeanor were also genuine. Her gracious offering of as much time necessary to everyone who asked cemented my impression of her. National Public Radio personality Nina Totenberg spent nearly a dozen min­utes with her, both peering out the dugout fence at the game while chat­ting about encounters with mutual friends. 
I dutifully queued among the mem­bers and eventually had my iPhone photo snapped with Sotomayor as well as an autograph. Ironically, since Sotomayor ordered an end to the Major League Baseball strike years ago, she refuses to sign any type of ball, including the pink softball I offered to her. She signed wristbands, shirts and programs but no balls. The “Reliable Source” section of the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Show some faith 
This letter is in response to Mackin Bannon and Rachel Cotton’s answers to The Observer’s “Question of the Day” on Aug. 25. While Brandon Saia, Stephanie Prince and Tierney Roche correctly pre­dicted an undefeated season for the Fighting Irish football team in 2010, Mackin and Rachel had the audacity to predict nine and 10 wins after only their second day as Notre Dame students. 
Mackin? Rachel? Where’s the faith? What reason have you to believe in anything less than perfection? What has caused you to become jaded so soon into your lives as Domers? 
I’ve lived through dark times as a student. I came to Notre Dame during Brady Quinn’s final year amidst a hurricane of hype about how great our team was supposed to be. I thought I felt bad after a brutal loss in the Sugar Bowl that year, but then came the worst three-year stretch in the history of our program ... 
After witnessing 3-9, 7-6 and 6-6 from the student section, I feel as though skepticism should be justifiable. Even so, I still stay true to my duty as a Domer by refusing to let doubt creep into my mind. Night is darkest before the dawn. In our case, night was darkest two seasons ago. 
Now, as Coach Kelly ushers in a new era of Fighting Irish Football I urge you to look around at the rays of new hope that wash over our campus and reflect in Our Lady atop the Golden Dome herself. Right now, a new energy unfamiliar to any current student is stir­ring just beneath the surface. Anticipation is mounting, and the echoes are nearly ready to be awakened. In just ten days, thunder will shake down from the sky over Notre Dame Stadium. It is up to all of us to recognize the opportunities we currently have as coach­es, players, faculty, staff, administrators, and especially the players, the band, and the students, to take advantage of our short time here by doing our own part to carry on the Spirit of Notre Dame. 
You will look back on these days for the rest of your lives, and our tradition will live on through the stories you share with our future generations. Wouldn’t you rather have your own stories begin like those of Brandon, Stephanie and Tierney? Wouldn’t you rather start off as a true believer? 
Go Irish! Beat Boilers! 
Daniel Colt Collins 
law student Class of 2013 Aug. 25 
Washington Post published that fact and estimated what her signature on a ball would command in the memora­bilia market. 
As the game progressed and players focused more on the game, Justice Sotomayor climbed on the bench, sit­ting on the back support with her feet on the seat so that she could better see the game above the players in the dugout. While she sat alone during the fifth inning, I approached her solitary figure for my few minutes of quality discussion. I mentioned that if my par­ents were alive, they would be thrilled at my ability to speak with her because all four of my grandparents were Italian immigrants in the early 1900s. 
Sotomayor replied that our nation certainly is a wonderful place of opportunity, comparing the path she and her immigrant family took to my path. She joyfully and emphatically spoke from her heart when she tied our families’ paths with the possibility of intersecting and being together in the dugout. It reminded me of the excitement Catholics felt in 1960 when John Kennedy broke the political reli­gious prejudices with his election as president. 
As I prepared to return to my coach­ing duties and end our conversation, I could not resist the bust-chopper aspect of my personality. I concluded by asking her to do me a favor the next time she saw Justice Antonin Scalia. I said, “Tell Justice Scalia for me that a practicing Catholic says to quit giving his opinions in speeches before issues come before the court — he is sup­posed to decide on the merits in court, not prior.” 
Justice Sotomayor smiled her famously broad grin, and I could see a bright twinkle in her eye that knew what I meant. She merely nodded her head as I shook hands with her one final time and resumed my coaching duties. She sat alone atop the dugout bench for another two innings without much more conversation from others in the dugout. 
As I think back on my first week at Notre Dame when everyone seemed to have a bright twinkle in their eyes and were open to making new friends, I gleaned a life lesson. Students, beware that life’s many twists always seem to present at least one new person with a genuine soul regardless of whether or not destined for fame. Recognizing a future Sotomayor begins with your first week at Notre Dame. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Don’t fence me in! 
IfirstvisitedandfellinlovewithNotreDamewhenIwasinthirdgrade.Myparentshadbrought metocampustoseeafootballgame.Atthatpointinmylife,Ididn’tparticularlycareforsports, nordidIunderstandthemajestythatisNotreDamefootball.Ican’tsayifwewonthatday,buta physicalreminderofwhatIdorememberisabouttodisappear. 
Irememberrunningthroughthelushgrassinfrontofthelibrary,redandgoldenleavescrackling beneathmyfeet.Irememberchasingchubbysquirrelswherevertheyscampered,andIremember myparentshavingadifficulttimeexplainingtomethatitwastimetoleave.Mostvividinmymem­oryisfloppingdowninthecenterofapatchofgrass,tossingfreshlyfallenleavesintotheair,and cheering“IwanttogotoNotreDame!” 
Withthisfondmemory,itisdishearteningtoseeominousfencepostspoppingupacrosscampus. IbelievethatGodmadegrasstofrolicin,andnottobefencedin.WherewillIfrolicnowcoming fromclassafterreceivinganexcellentgrade?SurelyifIwantedtopranceinjubilationonaslabof concreteIwouldhavefoundacollegelocatedinaconcretejungle!HowwillIskipbarefoottothe libraryonwarmautumndaysandfeelthecarpetofgrassbetweenmytoesifintimidatingandugly fencesdeterme? 
RecallingthelinesofPsalm23,“TheLordismyshepherd;Ishallnotwant.Hemakethmetolie downingreenpastures,”Iimploretheuniversity:Stopthismadness! Thesefenceswilldecrease ouraccesstooneofGod’smostbeautifulgifts:Grass,greenwithlifeandtallinexultationbeneath theheavens,invitingthemosttiredoffeettowalkthereandbecushioned. 
Melissa Jordan 
sophomore Ryan Hall Aug. 26 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 
Scene
page 12 Friday, August 27, 2010 

lastweekendofJuly,Iwasgreetedby 
lamppostsbearingthebannerofa 
characterfromthemovie“Tron: 
Legacy,”whichwillcomeoutlaterthis 
year.Underneaththeomnipresentads 
arethewords,“CelebratingPop 
CultureandtheArts.” 
ThisisComic-Con?Ithoughtthe Stephanie DePrez SanDiegoComicConventionwasa 

gatheringof40-year-old-menin 
sweatyStarWarst-shirts,trading 
Scene Writer 
SpidermancomicsandLordofthe 
Ringsmovietrivia.Instead,it’smorethanamileofthemost 
cutting-edgenewproductsinmovies,television,videogames 
andcomics(Iactuallyboughtsome!). 
In-betweenunendingrowsofvenderspeddlingeverything 
fromanimehatstoartist-interpretationTolkienjewelrywere 
boothsdevotedtocultinternetweb-serieslike“TheGuild” 
andnetworkpromotionsitesforthelikesofSquareEnix 
Games,WBandFox.Postersfromhorrorfilmsandviralfan 
videosI’veneverheardofranalongsidelinesofgiddyfans, 
maleandfemale,aged10to80,clutchingcomicsorcam­
eras,waitingeagerlytoseethewriter/artist/actorwhothey 
willtellyouchangedtheirlife(andwhoyoumostlikelywon’t 
recognize). 
Theonlywaytosurviveistokeepmovingthroughthe 
moshofpeople,eachexperiencingtheirownnirvana,andto 
makesurenottostoptoolongtotakeapictureofthatfabu­
lousWonderWoman/IronMan/SlaveLeiacostumewalking 
by.AndisthatJossWhedon? 
Bestillmybeatingheart. 
Thisisthemanwhogotmehere.Sortof. 
IhavebeenafanofJossWhedonshows(“Buffythe 
VampireSlayer,”“Firefly,”“Dollhouse”)sincefellowNotre 
DamestudentandScenewriterEllieHallshowedmethem 
freshmenyear.OurnightsspentdivingintothesecultTV 
showseventuallyledtousbothmajoringinFilm,Television 
andTheater(FTT)atNotreDame.Weultimatelywrotetwo 
grantproposals,askingthisfineuniversityforthefundsto 
studyWhedonasawriter,director,andfaninfluencer. 
ThuswefoundourselvesatComic-Con,videocamerain 
handandthesisquestionsattheready,willingtotalktoany­
oneandeveryonewhoclaimstobeamemberofthe 
BuffyVerse.Whichwasquiteeasy,seeingaswewereatthe 
Meccaofsuperfans,surroundedbypeoplewhospendayear 
meticulouslysewingthemostauthenticreplicationof 
MalcolmReynold’s(“Firefly”)iconicbrowncoatpossible. 
Afterall,“Firefly”fansdolovinglycallthemselves 
Browncoats. 
Ourjourneybeganat3a.m.onaWednesdaymorning,get­
tingupinordertogetinlineforHallH,the6,500person 
seatinghallthatquicklybecameaparadeoftopHollywood 
A-listers. 
Inordertosecure 
ourseatsfortheJoss 
Whedon/J.J.Abrams 
(theproducerbehind 
thenew“StarTrek” 
movieand“Lost”) 
panel,wewereforced 
tositthroughalong 
slogofpeoplelikeWill 
Ferrell,TinaFey, 
AngelinaJolie,Bruce 
Willis,HelenMirren, 
JeffBridges,Olivia 
WildeandAaron 
Eckhart. 
Afterpoppingmy 
eyeballsbackintomy 
head,Whedonfinally 
tookthestageto 
crackwiseabout 
Buffy,3Dandhisundy­
ingloveofthenew 
movie“StarTrek”(whichmadeMr.Abramsblushveryred 
indeed).Butthiswasn’tjustplay–no,no–foritwasallcap­
turedonmycamera,tobeeditedandtranscribedforauni­
versity-fundeddocumentaryandthesis. 
TuesdaybeganinthelineforBallroom20,capacity1,200, 
inordertoseethe“JossWhedonExperience”panel(because 
apparentlywe’renottheonlyoneswholovethisguy).After 
sittingthroughapanelon“Stargate:Universe”(ofwhichI 
hadpreviouslyknownnothing)wefollowedtheghostofan 
opportunityontotheexhibitionfloorthatturnedouttobea 
deadend.Frustratedbutdetermined,weexploredour 
options,forwesimplycouldnotmissthepanelontheman caseattheDarkHorseComicsbooth,thecomicbookcompa­nythatproducesthetie-incomicbooksforallthings Whedon. 

Afteraskingaround,wewerehandedofftoasenioreditor. Afirmcasewasmadeforourwork,forthecreditwewereto receiveandfortheacademicimpactwehopedtomakewith ourrespectiveprojects.See,thisisthekicker.Becausewe wereinSanDiegoasstudents,andnotjustfans,doors openedtousthatwewouldhaveneverimagined.VIPpasses inhand,weskippeduptotheentrydoorstomakeourway in. 
Butwhoshouldwepass?Themanhimself,Whedon,about togobackstage.Ifranticallyjoinedthemassofcamerassur­roundinghim,gettingovermyraginginnerfaninorderto keepthecamerasteadyandtakeintheactionofWhedon signinganautographforafaninawheelchair.Infact,over theweekend,wespentsomuchtimetailingWhedonthathis regularentouragebecameaccustomedtousandstopped tryingtowedgemycameraout. 
Asfatewouldhaveit,wesatbehindWhedon’sgo-tocos-tumedesigner,whoagreedtodoaninterview.Afterthat,we hookedupwiththeBrowncoatbooth,andinterviewedmany ofthebiggestmoversandshakersintheCan’tStopthe Serenitycharitymovement(grownoutofthe“Firefly”cine-maticcontinuationfrom2005,“Serenity”).Soonwordgotout aboutourquestforknowledge,andweevenhadtheproduc­erandthestarofanupcomingfanfilmforcharityoffertobe interviewed. 
Thiswasallinbetweenourscheduledinterviewswith mainstayWhedonshowwriterslikeStevenDeKnightand JaneEspenson,whonowdevelopandwriteforshowssuch as“Spartacus:BloodandSand”and“BattlestarGalactica.” HadwenotbeenatComic-Con,ourpleasforcontactwould probablyhavegoneunanswered,butsincewewereableto catchthemduringtheirmomentsofdown-time,wewere abletogainamassivearrayofauthoritativeinformation frompeoplewhosecareersbeganonWhedonshows. 
Butwhataboutthefinalcontact,theHolyGrailofinter­viewsourfangirlsqueehadbeenwaitingforallweek?Itwas nottobe,butnotwithoutanexhaustofeveryavenuepossi­ble. 
ThegoldenmomentcamewhenWhedonwasleavinghis “Dollhouse”comicbooksigning.Ihadstoodtheirfilming intermittentlythewholetime,soheassumedIwasn’tgoing toattack.Whenhewalkedby,Iheldoutourcontactcard, hopinghewouldgrabitashepassed.Henotonlytookit,but hestoodthere,lookingatmeexpectantly.“Fiveminutes–for ourthesis–we’redoingitonyou–ifyouhaveanysortof time–Iknowyou’rebusy–” 
“Well,IactuallyhavetoruntoanAvengersthingright now,butifIhavetimeI’llletyouknow.” 
Alas,“time”hedidnothave.Butthat“Avengersthing” turnedouttobetheHallHextrava­ganzathatintroducedthewholecast oftheupcomingfilmWhedoniscur­rentlypenningandwilldirect,com­pletewithappearancesbyRobert DowneyJr.,ScarlettJohanssonand MarkRuffalo.IsupposeI’llforgive him. 
Afterfourdaysofdouble-takewor­thycostumes,endlesslines,brief encounterswithdestinyandenough swagtomeritanothercheckedbag, weheadedtotheairport,beaming withsuccess.Armedwiththebadgeof academia,wewhittledourwayinto theupperechelonofBrowncoatcom­pany.Wetalkedourwayintoaclosed panel.Weconnectedwithacoupleof today’smostsuccessfultelevisionwrit­ers.Andeventually,wemadecontact withthesubjectofourstudy. 
Themoralofthestory?Pursueyour 
passion.Ifyouwanttostudyit,thereis away.Ifyouloveitenough,youwillrunintopeoplewho wanttohelp.Askyourprofessors,yourdean,andtheend­lessarrayoffundingopportunitiesonthiscampus.Whenyou getsomewhere,don’tbeshy.Impresspeoplewithhowconfi­dentNotreDamestudentsare.Surprisethemwithyour knowledgeandquestforanswers.Whoknows?Youmight justendupatComic-Con. 
Contact Stephanie Deprez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By ELLIE HALL 
Scene Writer 
The four glorious days of the San Dieg International Comic-Con give attendee the chance to rub shoulders with icons the entertainment industry and enjoy th cutting edge of pop culture along wit 140,000 other like-minded, so-calle nerds. The convention has grown so muc over the past 30 years that even the mo casual conventioneer needs a map and plan of attack. Fortunately, my partner crime, Stephanie DePrez, and I were n casual conventioneers — we were wome on a mission. 
1. Do your research 
Be able to 
recognize all of the famous names that will be wan­dering around the Exhibit Hall, because you never know when you’ll run into Stan Lee or James Cameron on the way to the bath room. Know which of your icons will be at the Con and make sure you can pick them out 

of a lineup. Shrek Superfans at 
2. Have a plan of attack 
Military strategies have been planne with less detail than our finely-tune schedule. Since there are always a millio interesting things going on at once, yo need to pick and choose the most impo tant panels and the impossible-to-mi signings, and still leave enough flexibili in case something important comes up. 
3. Forget sleep 
I think we averaged four hours of slee a night during the Con. It’s a choice — yo can be well-rested, or you can be in th first row of Hall H when Joss Whedon off cially confirms that he’s directing an writing “The Avengers.” 
4. Buddy System 
You cannot do Comic-Con alone. With friend along for the ride, you never hav to worry about losing a spot in line, goin hungry or having your seat stolen durin 
The Observer 
Scene
Friday, August 27, 2010 page 13 

the panel break. Instead, you throw your  
seat-saving friend a sandwich as she  
walks into a panel and run off to track  
go  down a Fox publicity executive. Synergy.  
es  
of  5. Get Connected  
he  Awesome things happen really quickly at  
th  Comic-Con, so when they do, it’s in your  
best interest to know about them as soon  
ch  as possible. Actors and directors randomly  
st  show up at booths for signings, exclusive  
a  memorabilia will go on sale, or a free taco  
in  van will park outside the convention cen­ 
ot  ter. You never know what will happen, but  
en  you can bet that when it does, someone  
will tweet about it. I brought my laptop to  
the Con every single day and took advan­ 
tage of the free WiFi so that I could  
always know  

ed what was happ ening around the Con. 
6. Don’t Be “That Fan” 
Yes, Comic-Con is the closest thing to Nirvana for practical­ly every fan base imagi­nable because there’s always that chance that you’ll meet the object of rfans at Comic Con your devo­tion, but the overly emotional/crazy fanatics ruin that ed opportunity for everyone else (I’m looking ed at you, Twihards). While Steph and I were on waiting to interview longtime Joss ou Whedon writer Jane Espenson at the r-California Browncoat booth, a Buffy alum, ss newlywed Seth Green, dropped by so that ty he could introduce Jane to his wife. He shook hands and talked with fans for a few minutes ... until one very loud guy noticed him and started freaking out. Cue ep crowds and Seth Green’s hasty departure. ou The biggest names in the entertainment he industry come to Comic-Con to meet fans i-and interact with them, but no one wants nd to interact with a blubbering idiot. It’s okay if your inner fangirl is squealing when you realize that you’ve been sitting next to Nathan Fillion for the past 15 min-
a utes (true story), but keep it that way: ve inside. ng ng 

Contact Ellie Hall at ehall4@nd.edu 


from the very inti-
strong presences at 
mate British film 
this year’s San 
“Monsters,” about 
Diego Comic-Con. 
But, perhaps even 
a couple dealing 
with the aftermath 
more exciting than 
of an alien inva-
Ryan Reynolds in 
sion, to “Skyline,” 
the CGI Green 
about aliens that 
Lantern suit, is the 
literally suck peo­
announcement of a 
ple up into the sky, 
director and final 
to “Battle: Los 
cast list for “The 
Angeles,” which 
Avengers,” a comic 
takes a look at 
book about the 
warfare against an 
crime-fighting 
alien invasion in 
antics of a legion of 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Writer 
For those who, like myself, were unlucky enough tomissComic-Con2010thisyear,herearesomeof the greatest hits, misses, news and shockers to comeoutofSanDiego. 
Comic book movies are all the rage right now, with “The Green Lantern,” “Thor” and “Captain America”allhaving 
famous super­heroes, including, but not limited to, Captain America, Iron Man, Thor and the Hulk. Fanboys rejoiced when Joss Whedon, the creator of such pop-culture hits as “Firefly,” “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” and “Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog” was announcedasthedirectorofthissuperheroextrav­aganza. 
MarvelComicsalsoannouncedtheirthirdHulkin the last decade, after Eric Bana and Edward Norton both left the franchise, with Mark Ruffalo (“Shutter Island”), who will be joining the cast of “The Avengers.” JeremyRenner, star ofthis year’s Oscar winner “The HurtLocker,” willjoin Whedon, Ruffalo, Robert Downey Jr., Samuel L. Jackson, Chris Evans, Scarlett Johansson and many others as the superhero Hawkeye. During the Marvel Comics panel, Robert Downey Jr. sauntered onstage and proceeded to bring out the entire cast ofthe film. Never has so much nerd-power been in thesameroomatonetime. 
Though “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World” has since been released, to mostly great reviews, Edgar Wright surprised panel for his upcoming film “Cowboys & Aliens.” Tears flooded the eyes of many fanboys and girls in the audience, and even more outside the convention hall who missed Mr. Ford in person. 
Aliensreallyaretakingovertheworld,oratleast Hollywood. After the success of alien-related flicks lastyear,like“District9”and“Avatar,”atonofnew alien movies were announced at this year’s Comic-
Con. They range 
Los Angeles. Each of these films looks totally awesome, and each takes a different look at aliens. Whether they’ll be anygoodornot,however,remainstobeseen. 
“Tron” was a cult hit almost 30 years ago and this December, Jeff Bridges, this year’s Oscar win­ner for “Crazy Heart,” is back with a new look at the world inside a computer. In “Tron: Legacy,” SamFlynn(“Eragon”)getssuckedintotheworldof Tron where his father, Kevin (Bridges)hasbeen for the last25years.Sam must savehis father andget them both outofaworld that doesn’t wantthemto leave. Not only did the “Tron: Legacy” trailer look awesome, Disney brought out the big guns at Comic-Con with an awesome scavenger-hunt that ledto agiant rave/party with waitresses dressedin Tronsuitsservingfluorescentdrinks,clipsfromthe newmovies,aDJandlotsofvideogames. 
“Let the Right One In,” a Swedish film about a young vampire and the human boy she befriends, took the movie world by storm last year, receiving immensepraisefrommostoftheworld’stopcritics. Groans were heard roundthe world when director 
Matt Reeves 

(“Cloverfield”)
fans at Comic-
announced he’d be 
Con with several 
remaking the film. 
free advanced 
And though nothing 
screenings of the 
film. He reward-
could beat the origi­
nality and ingenuity 
ed the fanboys 
of the Swedish ver­
who made his 
sion of John Ajvide 
film possible and 
Lindqvist’s novel, the 
showed Comic-
trailer for “LetMe In” 
Con how to do a 
that premiered at 
panel the right 
Comic-Con wasn’t 
way — prefer-
half bad. In fact, it 
ablywithamovie 
was downright entic­
waiting at the 
ing, showing off what 
end. 
appears to be some 
Not long after 
great work by the 
director 
Guillermo del Toro (“Pan’s Labyrinth”) announced he would no longer be directing “The Hobbit,” the sequel to the much-beloved and much-Oscar-win­ning “Lord of the Rings” trilogy, he came out at Comic-Conandannouncedhisnextbigproject—a new film adaptation of the Disney World attraction “The Haunted Mansion,” absolutely unrelated in any to the 2003 Eddie Murphy movie. Though mil­lions are scratchingtheir heads, delToro professes tobeadiehardfanoftherideandwantstomakeit ascary,butstillfamily-friendly,film. 
Though people having been walking around Comic-Con foryears dressed asHan Solo, Harrison Ford finally made his first appearance at the geek Meccawhenhewasbroughtonstage,asasurprise, by director Jon Favreau (“Iron Man”), during the movie’s young stars Chloe Moretz (“Kick-Ass”) and Kodi Smit-McPhee (“The Road”). Skepticism over the American version is still running rampant, but many were surprised at how not-bad Reeves’ film actuallylooks. 
WhileWarnerBros.didagreatjobofshowcasing upcoming films like “The Green Lantern” and “Sucker Punch,” the audience was leftfairly miffed bythe lackof coverageof what mightbe themovie event ofthe year:the release ofpart one of “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows,” the final install­ment of the wizarding franchise. They better have something good up their sleeves to make up for this. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, August 27, 2010 
MLB 
Dodgers leave Milwaukee with three wins 
Astros beat Phillies 5-1 for a record breaking four-game sweep; Home runs from Gonzalez, Tejada lead Padres over D-backs 
run and two hits in 4 1-3 innings, run and five hits, striking out six. 
Associated Press 
tired in the fifth. But the bullpen The left-hander is 7-2 with a1.79 
MILWAUKEE —CaseyBlake hit cameontoprotecta2-1lead. ERAsinceJune24. a two-run homer and six Dodgers With one out, Monasterios The spoiler Astros got major pitchers combined on atwo-hitter walked Gallardo, hit Rickie Weeks contributions from three former as Los Angeles beat the withapitchforthesecondtimein Phillies —pitchers Brett Myers Milwaukee Brewers 7-1Thursday the game and then plunked the and J.A. Happ and All-Star out­forathree-gamesweep. next batter, Corey Hart, to load fielder Michael Bourn —to earn 
The Dodgers came into the bases. That ended the rookie their first four-game sweep in Milwaukee with a 3-14 mark on right-hander’s 10th start of the Philadelphia since September the road in the second half but season. Ronald Belisario (2-1) 1999. They swept a four-game rekindledtheir playoffhopes with relieved and got Ryan Braun to seriesfromthePhilliesinHouston their first three-game sweep at strikeoutswinging. lastSeptember. Miller Park since May 23-25, Dodgers manager Joe Torre The Astros have owned the 2003. brought in left-hander George Phillies in recent years. They are 
The Brewers lost their fourth Sherrill to face left-handed hitting the only NL team with a winning straight. Prince Fielder, who hit into a record (30-16) against 
Leading4-1, the Dodgers broke fielder’s choice to end the Philadelphiasince2004. the game open in the seventh Brewers’threat. Phillies starter Kyle Kendrick with three runs off starter Yovani AfterFielder’s26thhomerun,a (8-7) allowed four runs and nine Gallardo (11-6) and reliever Todd solo shot in the fourth, tied the hits in six innings. He’s 1-2 with a Coffey. game, Podsednik lined ashot off 6.23ERAinhislastthreestarts. 
Gallardo walked reliever Kenley thegloveofadivingWeeksatsec-Philadelphia has struggled Jensen with one out and Scott ond base in the fifth. The ball against the lesser teams in the Podsednik singled for the third trickled into short right field, majors, going 21-19 against clubs time.RyanTheriotloopedthefirst allowingBradAusmustoscore. that are 10games or more below pitch from Coffey into center for Ausmusalsohadthreehits. .500. anRBIsinglethatscoredJensen. Podsednik singled, wentto third The Phillies’ inconsistent 
An error by catcher Jonathan on Theriot’s double and scored on offense is struggling again, scor-Lucroy on center fielder Chris Matt Kemp’s groundout in the ing two runs or less in seven of Dickerson’s throw to the plate first. thelasteightgames. allowed Podsednik and Theriot to Rodriguez allowed only one advance. Podsednik scored on Astros 5, Phillies 1 baserunner on a walk until Reed Johnson’s single, and WandyRodriguez pitched seven Jayson Werthlined asingle to left Theriot came home on Coffey’s sharp innings, Carlos Lee home-to start Philadelphia’s fifth. Raul NLWest. field and Drew pulled into second wildpitch. red and the Houston Astros beat Ibanez followed with adouble, The Padres’ closestpursuer, the base. 
Blake’s 13th homer, a two-run the Phillies Thursday to complete but Rodriguez pitched out of the San Francisco Giants, lost to The umpires huddled, then shot off Gallardo in the sixth, their first four-game sweep in no-out jam without allowing a Cincinnati, 12-11 in 12 innings. went to review video. Replays pushed the lead to 4-1. Dodgers Philadelphiain11years. run. DavidEckstein hadthree hits and showedthatthe ballhit off aseat outfielder Andre Ethier was eject-The two-time NL champion Shane Victorino struck out. three runs, and Tejada also inthehomerunporch. ed during the inning for arguing Phillies fell three games behind Brian Schneider then lined out to scored three runs to help San The1-0leaddidn’tlastlong. with plate umpire Adrian idle Atlanta in the NL East and right fielder Hunter Pence, who Diego improve to an NL-best 76-Eckstein singled leading off the Anderson. trail San Francisco by ahalf-easilynailedWerthattheplate. 49. bottom of the inning and Tejada 
Los Angeles starter Carlos gameinthewild-cardstandings. The Phillies finally broke Arizona’s Stephen Drew went 4 drove an 0-2pitchfrom Saunders 
Monasterios, who allowed one Rodriguez (10-12) allowed one through in the fifth. Chase Utley for 4withtwo solo homers for his into the Padres’ bullpen beyond linedanRBIdoubleintotheright-firstcareermultihomergame. the fence in left-center for a2-0 fieldcornertocutitto4-1. Drew wound up with aleadoff lead. It was Tejada’s second since 
The Astros scored arun in each home run after umpires used coming to San Diego in atrade of the first four innings, getting instantreplayto reversethe origi-withBaltimoreonJuly29,andhis key, two-out hits for the first two. nal call. His secondhomer left no ninthoverall. Anderson Hernandez singled and doubt, clanging off the top of an San Diego scored four runs in scored on Lee’s double to left in advertising sign atop the right-the thirdto take a6-1lead. Three the first. Angel Sanchez singled fieldwallwithtwooutsinthesev-were unearneddue to two errors. and scored on Bourn’s single to enth to chase Wade LeBlanc (8-Ecksteinscoredonabases-loaded rightinthesecond. 11). fielding error byDrew, the short-
Lee connected with one out in The game was briefly delayed stop.JerryHairstonJr.hitasacri­the third, hitting adrive to deep inthe thirdinningwhenawoman fice fly to bring in Tejada. As left for his 18th homer and a 3-0 with a Mexican flag and a man Tejada slid into home, the three-lead. ran onto the field, apparently hop throw by left fielder Rusty 
Sanchez led off the fourth with protesting Arizona’s immigration Ryal hit him in the back for an a double and scored when law. Both were quickly appre-error, allowing runners to Rodriguez ripped asingle off the hendedby security andled offthe advance to second and third. scoreboardinright. field. Yorvit Torrealba followed with a 
The speedyBournstole arun in Gonzalez’shomerwashis156th two-runsingle. the seventh. He reached on an in five seasons with the Padres, Arizona’s Adam LaRoche hit an infield single, stole second base tying him for second with Phil RBI double in the fourth and despite getting picked off, and Nevin on the franchise all-time Drew homered again in the sev­scored from second on an infield list. He’s seven shy of Nate enth,givinghim10. single. Colbert’s record 163. His shot to LeBlanc allowed five homers in 
right-center off Joe Saunders (1-hisfirst12starts,andhasallowed Padres 9, Diamondbacks 3 4) with no outs in the fourth 16inhislast12.Heallowedthree 
Adrian Gonzalez hit athree-run inning was his 26th. Eckstein and runs and seven hits in 62-3 homer and Miguel Tejada had a Tejadawereaboardonsingles. innings, struck out seven and two-run shot as the San Diego Drew led offthe game with afly walkedtwo. Padres beat the last-place ball into the right-field corner. Saunders also lost 10-1 to the Arizona Diamondbacks on First base umpire Ted Barrett sig-Padres on Aug. 8at Phoenix. He Wednesday night to take a sea-naled fair ball as the shot off allowed nine runs and eight hits, son-high 6½-game lead atop the LeBlanc ricochetedback onto the walkedthreeandstruckoutone. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
You know, in the ten years that I coached, I never met anybody who 
Down duvet comforter with match-DUBS’ INN 
ing pillows $50. Call 574-654-3241 WEEKEND B&B FOR ND ——————————————— GAMES/EVENTS 4 BR HOME
FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL wanted to win as badly as I did. I'd Part-time photographer, sales asso-SLEEPS UP TO 8 ADULTS. 
do anything I had to do to increase Barely used Giant Cypress ST1020 my advantage. Anybody who tried 
ciate for JC Penney Portrait Studio, 4 bedroom 3 QUEEN, 2 SINGLE BEDS, 4 What sort of movie would Rudy 19” women’s silver green bicycle. to block the pursuit of that advan­
hours flexible, 2 bath COUCHES, 3 FULL BATHS. have been if he had just stopped Paid $500. Asking $235 OBO. Call tage, I'd just push 'em out of the
salary depends on experience. tri-level in Arlington Heights-1 MILE FROM CAMPUS and given up after two rejections. 574-654-3241 way. 
Call Jackie 5 minutes from campus. FREE MEALS AND SHUTTLE Would've been a less shorter. ——————————————— 574-277-5638 New kitchen, bath. AVAILABLE, NON SMOKING. Probably been a lot funnier. But it 
Didn't matter who they were, or what they were doing.
Guitar- Jeff Hanneman 2400 fret or send resume $800/DAY. DUBS RETURNS would have ultimately been a disap­
pointment. I still would have seen it.
electric $265 OBO. Call Keith CALLS But that was then. ——————————————— 
Call 574-233-2973. to smp0319@lifetouch.com 574-323-6273 (574-210-4030) But, that's not... the point. 
————————————————————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
——————————————— 
Friday, August 27, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 page 16 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 27, 2010 Friday, August 27, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 


PGA 
Woods shoots best round since break from tour 
Associated Press 
PARAMUS, N.J. — Yes, that really was Tiger Woods’ name atoptheleaderboard. 
In his first tournament since his divorce, Woods finally looked like the No. 1 player in the world ThursdayattheBarclayswhenhe opened with a 6-under 65, his lowest score of the year, to share the lead with Vaughn Taylor. It was his first time leading after any round on the PGA Tour since the Tour Championship last September. 
“It’s exciting to hit the ball flush again,” Woods said. “It’s some­thingI’vebeenmissingallyear.” 
He didn’t miss much at Ridgewood Country Club. Woods hit all but one fairway and putted for birdie on all but two holes. And while he hit his driver only twice, they were two of his best shots of the day — including on the 291-yard fifth hole, where his drive landed pin-high and settled 15feetaway. 
Was it just a coincidence that his game showed up so soon after hismarriagewasdissolved? 
“I can’t really say that’s the case,” he said. “As far as golf, it wasnicetoputittogether.” 
Woods and Taylor both played in the morning, when the greens were smooth and the conditions were only breezy. They had a one-shot lead over Adam Scott, Brian Gay andRyan Palmer. Scott played in the afternoon, where a gust of wind played tricks on him atthefinalholeandledtobogey. 
Scott endured a long day in the pro-am Wednesday and didn’t think Ridgewood would serve up a65toanyone. 
“Seeing some good scores this morning made me change my mind,”hesaid. 
That one of those scores belonged to Woods was hardly a surprise. 
“For him to piece things togeth­er can’t be too hard,” Scott said. “He’sverygood.” 
The last time Woods’ was atop the leaderboard after any round of any tournament was when he won the Australian Masters on Nov. 15, less than two weeks after his life cavedin on him — the car crash after Thanksgiving night, details of adultery, five months away from the game and a bro­ken marriage, which officially endedMonday. 
His golf hasn’t been very good either, whichis whyWoods began the FedEx Cup playoffs 112th out of 125 players who qualified. He was so low down the list that he was first to tee off under a sunny sky at Ridgewood, the first time he’s done that in his PGA Tour career. 
Itworkedtohisadvantage. 
“With fresh greens, everybody in our group was makingputts on the front nine,” Woods said. “You hadtogetittoday.” 
Andhedid.The65washislow­est score in 46 rounds, dating to a 62in theBMWChampionshiplast year. Taylor grinned when asked if he was surprised to see Woods’ nameontheleaderboard. 
“Somewhat, you know?” he said. “It’s goodtosee him back up top.” 
With sunshine and a light breeze, conditions were ripe for scoring. Palmer had a chance to join the leaders until a three-putt bogey on the 18th put him at 66. Even though the greens became bumpy in the afternoon after so much foot traffic, the course was soft enough to allow for good scores. There were 14 players who shot67, includingDavis Love III, defending champion Heath SlocumandStewartCink. 
Phil Mickelson, with his ninth chance in the last four months to replace Woods at No. 1 in the world, made only one birdie for a 72. 
For Woods, the timing could not havebeenbetter. 
Only the top 100 in the FedEx Cup standings advance to the sec­ond round of the playoffs next week in the Deutsche Bank Championship. Woods at least needs to make the cut, then finish in the middle of the pack. He had abettersolution. 
“I figure if I win, I should be OK,”Woodssaid. 
For one of the few times this year, he gave himself ample rea­son to believe that. Woods opened witha3-wooddownthemiddleof the fairway, a pitching wedge to 15 feet below the hole and a birdieputt. 
More followed, even on the par 5s,whichhavegivenWoodsfitsin recentmonths. 
He mostly used his 3-wood off the tee, figuring that was enough to reach the corners without hav­ing to take on the tops of trees that line the fairways. Plus, with saturated conditions from rain earlier in the week, tour officials allowed players to lift, clean and place their golf balls in the fair­way. 
“Withtheballinhand,it’smuch more important to hit the fair­ways,”Woodssaid.Itwasthefirst time since the 2006 British Open at Royal Liverpool that he hit his 3-woodofftheteeoneverypar5. 

The two times he hit the driver turned out to be two of his best shotsoftheday. 
After the tee shot on the par-4 fifth — only six players hit that green off the tee — Woods used driver into the wind on the 18th, hitting it so well that he had only a 7-iron into the green. He hit a punchshottojustover6feetfora finalbirdie. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, August 27, 2010 
NFL 
Owners push for 18-game schedule 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — NFL owners are eagertoincreasetheregularsea­sonfrom16to18games. 
Theplayersaren’tsosure. 
During afive-hour meeting at a posh hotel in downtown Atlanta, the push to add two more games to the regular season picked up steam Wednesday — at least among those who sign the checks. 
“I think it’s a win-win all around,” said Bob Kraft, owner oftheNewEnglandPatriots. 
The owners also unanimously approved Stan Kroenke’s propos­al to purchase majority owner­ship of the St. Louis Rams, assuminghe turns over control of two other teams he owns — the NBA’s Denver Nuggets and the NHL’s Colorado Avalanche — to hisson. 
Kroenke owns 40 percent of the downtrodden Rams and exer­cised his right to purchase the rest of the team from the Rosenbloom familyfor areported $750million. 
“Obviously, all of us know and respect Stan,” commissioner Roger Goodell said. “He’s been a terrific owner in the NFL and we’re confident he will continue tobeagreatowner.” 
Kroenke must turn over opera­tional and financial control of the Nuggets andAvalanche to his 30­year-old son, Josh, by the end of the year. He must give up his majority stake in the teams by December 2014 to meet NFL rules against cross-ownership of franchisesinotherNFLcities. 
But talks on the expanded sea­son dominated most of the meet­ing. 
Goodell pointed out that the league already has the right to impose an 18-game schedule — and keep four preseason games for each team — under the cur­rent labor agreement with the players. But that contract expires after this season, and it’s clear the expanded schedule will be a central issue in talks on a new collectivebargainingagreement. 
The owners would like to keep the season at 20 weeks, reducing the number of preseason games fromfourtotwo. 
“We want to do it the right way for everyone, including the play­ers, the fans and the game in general,” Goodell said. “There’s a tremendous amount of momen­tum for it. We think it’s the right step.” 
The owners held off on voting on a specific proposal that could be presented to the players union. Among the issues that still must be resolved: when to start the expanded regular season, possible roster expansion to cope with moregames, andchangesin training camp and offseason rou­tines to come up with ways for evaluating younger players who wouldn’t have as many presea­son games to make an impres­sion. 
“We want to continue to address a variety of issues before putting together a specific pro­posal, which our negotiating team will provide to the union’s negotiating team,” Goodell said. “There’s tremendous support for it. Almost all the questions, all the discussions, are how to do it inawaythat’sfanfriendly.” 
Around the NFL, however, manyplayers questionedthe wis­dom of making an already gruel­ing season even longer. At the very least, they want more money — and several proposed changes in the rules governing injured players, or adding an extra bye week to deal with the grind. 
“With 16 games, every game is important and therefore the fans are very into it, the stadiums are packed because they know if their team loses, it pushes them further and further away from making the playoffs,” Cincinnati quarterback Carson Palmer said. “I think if you go to 18, each game kind of loses a little bit of itssignificance.” 
Theplayersclearlyexpecttobe receive a bigger chunk of the multi-billion-dollar NFL pie if they’re going to be putting their bodies on the line in two more gamesthatcount. 
“Obviously the players want to be compensated for two more games,” San Francisco 49ers linebacker Matt Wilhelm said. “That’s the one thing the players havetogetmet.” 
They are also concerned about an increased risk of injuries and fret that it could shorten their careers or increase the number of health problems they endure afterretirement. 
“I would vote to eliminate two preseason games and then keep it at a 16-game season because the longer you’re out there play­ing, the more your body breaks down,” Chicago Bears tight end Desmond Clark said. “When you get into December, you’re like walking zombies. You can’t feel yourjoints.” 
Cleveland Browns linebacker Scott Fujita said the timing of the proposal is odd, considering the owners want the players to accept asmaller share ofthe rev­enue in the next labor agree­ment. 
“They are asking you to play more games and put yourself at more risk, and they are also ask­ing us to take apay cut,” he said. “That’s a lot to ask. All those things don’t make a whole lot of sense. We need to sit down and talk through it all and find out what it is they’re really trying to do and see if it makes sense or not.” 
But Kraft said the expanded seasonis themostobviousstepto bring in more money while the economyisstruggling. 
“I really think going to an 18­game season is critical to us get­ting a labor deal,” he said. “There’s not a lot ways in this economic environment we can generate incremental revenues. That’sthebestway. 
“The other thing,” he added, “our fans have said pretty loud and clear they’d like us to have fewerpreseasongames.” 
Several players and coaches have pointed outthathaving only two preseason games would like­lymakeitmoredifficultforfringe players to get enough of a look to maketheteam. 
Already, teams have been experimenting with joint work­outs in training camp, believing those sessions could help replace the shorter preseason. This year, for instance, the Atlanta Falcons worked out with both New EnglandandJacksonville. 
“If it was a two-game presea­son, then the starters are going to see most of that time because they’ve got to get ready for the season, so if you’re third string, good luck,” said Indianapolis linebackerGaryBrackett. 

Friday, August 27, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Favre adjusts to new changes in Vikings’ offense 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — One of the biggest reasons Brett Favre decided to return to the Minnesota Vikings this year was his familiarity with an offense that he enjoyed being around so muchin 2009. 
Suddenly, in some ways, Favre feels as if he’s starting all over again. 
His two favorite targets — Sidney Rice and Percy Harvin — have struggled with ailments throughout the preseason. Rice had hip surgery on Monday and likely will miss the first half of the regular season while Harvin has hardly practiced because of recurring migraines. 
“Not a lot different than last year as far as chemistry is con­cerned,” Favre said Wednesday. “It would have been nice to come in and go to bat with the guys that we finished with last year, but that is part of football. Every coach will say the same thing. Regardless of who is put in there we have to play the same way.” 
With Favre leading the way, the Vikings changed from a run-oriented offense in the firstthree years under coach Brad Childress into a pass-first unit that finished second in the league in scoring. 
Vikings receivers caught 207 of the 377 passes completed last season, nearly all of which were thrown by Favre. When Favre stepped into the huddle in San Francisco on Sunday night, Rice and Harvin were not even in the stadium, meaning 143 of last season’s receptions weren’t around. 
Bernard Berrian (55 catches) and Greg Lewis (eight) are the only healthy receivers on this year’s roster who caught a pass from Favre in 2009. 
Harvin did practice on Wednesday for the first time since a scary collapse last week brought on by migraines. He was taken from the field in an ambulance, spent the night in the hospital and did not make the trip to San Francisco. His availability for Saturday night’s game against Seattle is in ques­tion. 
The reigning rookie ofthe year forged a bond quickly with Favre last year, emerging as his security blanket on third down. Harvin missed one game in the regular season because of migraines and several practices in the playoffs as the Vikings marchedto the NFCtitle game. 
“Percy’s situation is kind of iffy,” Favre said. “We expect big things from him, bigger than last year. He has to take care of him­selffirst.” 
While Harvin dealt with the headaches last year, Rice’s need for surgery came as a surprise to nearly everyone. He was injured in the NFC title game loss to New Orleans, but said that doctors told him his hip wouldheal without surgery. 
Rice posted an update on his blog on Wednesday, saying that he tweaked the injury during minicamp in June but still hoped to avoid surgery. But doctors told him on Monday that a new MRI showed “a problem that could shorten my career.” 
“Once the Doc got in there and checked everything out, he said having the surgery was the best move I could have made, so I don’t regret it now,” Rice wrote. “He said it could have been much worse ifI wouldhave tried to play on it during the season. He said it could have been my last year of playing football, so I know Imade the rightdecision.” 
Favre said he kept in contact with Rice, who led the team with 83 catches and 1,312 yards, while he spent the summer deciding whether he should come back for a 20th NFL sea­son. 
“I really felt like at some point here in training camp he would be able to go,” Favre said. “Obviously that’s not the case. Probably like most people, I was pretty optimistic that he would be OK.” 
So Brett, if you knew Rice would be out so long, would you have come back? 
“I don’t know that for certain because that obviously wasn’t the case,” Favre said. “It’s hard enough at 40 to play. You take a guy out that had roughly 90­something catches and was obvi­ously pretty productive ... but there’s more guys on this team, too.” 
Rice said he hopes to be back before the firsthalf ofthe season ends. There have been theories that he did not get the surgery because he was in the final year of his contract and was hoping to sign an extension, and Rice addressedthatissue in his blog. 
“It’s not my concern what peo­ple say about my contract, what­ever happens, happens,” Rice wrote. “If the Vikings decide to give me an extension, that’s great. If not, life goes on. I’ll continue to work hard and do everything I can to be successful in what I’ve been doing my whole life, and that’s playing football.” 
The Vikings scrambled this week to add depth to a receiving group short on experience, sign-ing veteran free agent Javon Walker on Tuesday and trading with the Dolphins for slot receiv­er Greg Camarillo on Wednesday. 

Walker caught passes from Favre for four years in Green Bay, but he has just 41 recep­tions in the past three years combined in Denver and Oakland. 
Camarillo has 105 receptions for 1,165 yards and two touch­downs over the pasttwo years in Miami. 
“Without Sidney, it sure makes it tougher, Favre said. “But going into the season last year, no one expected the season that Sidney was going to have. So, maybe there’s another guy that can step up anddo that.” 

page 20 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 27, 2010 Friday, August 27, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 

Team 
continued from page 24 
to play, and also try to get a look at some players,” Clark said. 
Clark said his strategy will be to get each player some field time over the weekend by splitting the squad into two groups that will each play in one of the two games. 
“I think what I’ll do is play the more experienced group in the Saturday night game because on paper, Ohio State is the more highly ranked team,” Clark said. “Then in the Sunday game against IPFW, I think I’ll play the lads who didn’t play in the Saturday game. We’ll try to give the whole team some game play.” 
Ohio State finished last sea­son with a 12-5-4 record and IPFW, the host school, closed the year at 6-11-2. 

“It’s not a tryout,” Clark said “But every day they go out to practice is a tryout, because you’re always competing. We’ve got a pretty set system, and so you’re trying to peg down the system and get teamwork and cohesion within the group. At the same time, we’re looking for them to prove themselves to me, espe­cially the new boys. 
“They have to prove them­selves to the team too, espe­cially the freshman. It’s very important that they prove themselves to the upperclass­men and start to stake a claim and show everybody that they can play.” 
The Irish defeated Illinois-Chicago in their first exhibi­tion game, and Clark was impressed by the play of many, but particularly junior forward Michael Rose and senior mid­fielder Greg Klazura. 
“It was good to see Rose back because we lost him at the end of last year with a broken ankle,” Clark said. “It was good to see him back and playing well, and I was really impressed with him. Greg Klazura was showing great willingness to get into the attacking area, so I thought that was good to see. There were a lot of guys with bits and pieces that were very good.” 
Notre Dame will face Ohio State at 8 p.m. Saturday and IPFW at 2 p.m. Sunday. Both games will be played in Fort Wayne. 
Contact Eric Prister at epris­ter@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
“Our two seniors, Mary Kate Boyce and Rosie O’Connor need to play well for us to be successful, and I fully expect them to rise to the occasion,” Hamilton said. 
Boyce also finished in the top ten in the country and received All-American honors. Boyce was named to the All-MIAA First Team and finished ninth at the NCAAs in the spring, earn­ing All-American honors. She finished ranked 38th among Division III golfers with an 82.06 spring aver­age. O’Connor has been a consistent team player since her freshman year, often coming in third for the Belles on the course. 
“They know the history of our past successes and they are ready to do their part to insure our future success,” said Hamilton. 
“The upper classmen enjoyed our run in the NCAA last year and would like to get back and improve upon our 4th place finish.” 
Saint Mary’s will be com­peting in eight tourna­ments, including the MIAA Championships. The Belles will also have the opportu­nity to play in familiar ter­ritory, as they compete in the O’Brien National Invitational at the Warren Golf Course. 
“We have a relatively young team with six new players so they are eager to see what it is all about,” Hamilton said. “The uppers know what they are capable of and our excited about the high level of play the freshmen have brought to the team.” 
The Belles will compete at Trine August 28 and 29, teeing off at 1:00 p.m. each day. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsin­gler@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, August 27, 2010 
backer Anthony McDonald doubtful for the season 
Kelly 
opener, Kelly changed his 

continued from page 24 
they can’t see you from your box area,” he said. “So we even added a 49th [script] where I get to run out of the coach’s box, which is a lot of fun, out to the middle of the field to call timeout.” 
Another example is a “tur­tle punt,” which the Irish would use when in a punting situation near their own goal line and want to run some time off the clock. 
“It’s really a compete. 
“The preparation 
mental 
then is 100 percent
approach • Sophomore because you on Purdue.” cornerback have to be E.J. Banks will locked-in to the rejoin the Irish 
Brian Kelly 
different situa-Tuesday, but 
Irish coach
tions that are 
occurring,” Kelly said. “Understanding personnel changes, for example.” 
Once Notre Dame goes through those 49 scenarios, including Kelly’s dash to midfield, fall camp will have come to a close, and prepa­ration for the Sept. 4 opener will begin. 
“That’ll be our last day rel­ative to the preseason,” Kelly said. “The preparation then is 100 percent on Purdue.” 
Notes: 
• Less than a week after declaring junior inside line-tune Thursday. 
“He’s gone from doubtful to questionable,” Kelly said. “We’re moving in a direction that we think we may have him in a back-up capacity for Purdue.” 
• Another linebacker took a step in the right direction Thursday. The NCAA Clearinghouse declared freshman Justin Utupo fully 
eligible. Utupo can now both practice and 
now in a role 
on the scout 
team. He will 
be unable to play in games, and is not on scholarship, Kelly said. 
Banks left the team for undisclosed reasons earlier this fall, and Kelly said Banks made the choice to come back in the new role. 
“He wanted to come back to Notre Dame. He wanted to be on the team, and he wanted to prove himself,” Kelly said. “So he is going to get the opportunity to prove himself, both on the field and academically.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Puente 
continued from page 24 
ing. 
“We have really strong leadership,” Brown said. “Our co-captains have done a really good job in practices and off the court helping acclimate the freshman as well as continuing to lead the returning players. I think that we have some other strong leaders, and different people lead in different 
Joining the Irish this sea­son are six members of a highly touted recruiting class, which earned the No. 13 ranking on prepvolley­ball.com. The youth of the freshmen won’t stop Brown from utilizing them on the court this weekend. 
“We’ll have some freshman playing for sure,” Brown said. “We’ve worked through several different lineups and we need to see how every­body responds in game time situations. We need to see what combina­tions might be 

“We’re really looking 
ways.” best for us but 
Dealy has forward to it since we there will defi­641 kills in nitely be fresh-
know we have a great
her two years man on the 
lineup of teams this
with the Irish floor.” and has weekend and we know This week-repeatedly end, freshmen 
it’s going to be really 
proven herself M a g g i e
competitive.” 
as an all-Brindock and around threat Sammie Brown on the court. Debbie Brown start at setter, Puente joins a position that 
Irish coach 
Dealy as one of the most experienced players on the team and in the league, while also being a knowledgeable defensive specialist. 
Puente and her fellow liberos — senior Megan Dunne, junior Frenchy Silva and sophomore Christina Theofilos — have combined for more than 1,400 digs in their careers. Puente’s expe­rience on all sides of the court and keeping her team­mates on track will also be invaluable for Notre Dame this season, especially with the first three matches occurring in the same week­end. 
will automati­
cally put them in the spotlight. 
“It’s just a matter of mesh­ing it all together,” Brown said. “We go in there with the expectation of a win ... A huge thing for us is that we find a good rhythm and that we get better every night that we play.” 
The Irish open their season against Marshall at 7 p.m. tonight. Notre Dame plays Cal Poly at 7:30 p.m. Saturday and finishes the weekend against Arizona at 1 
p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

Friday, August 27, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Friday, August 27, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Getting “close” 
Kelly happy to see team bouncing back 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
One day after only describ­ing practice with disappoint­ed sentences sprinkled with harsh words, Irish coach Brian Kelly said his team came was “close” Thursday after practice. 
“We’re getting close,” he said. “Today was a pretty good day for us in terms of bouncing back from what I considered a sloppy prac­tice. Our guys came with a purpose today.” 
Kelly said Notre Dame worked on some of the same situations Thursday that they did in Wednesday’s practice. 
“We got a lot of the things done that we needed to,” he said. “Our goal line work doesn’t get a lot of attention during the year, although it is important in terms of punching it when in those DAN JACOBS/The Observer short-yardage situations.” Irish coach Brian Kelly speaks with his players at practice this week. After an upsetting 
For most of the fall, the Wednesday practice, Kelly said he was pleased with the effort and focus shown Thursday. Irish practiced for about two hours per session, but in the have to bring a mental edge and do a dry run.” head coach running. past two days, they only do it,” Kelly said. “We’ll Kelly said when he first “One is how to take a spent 2 hours and 20 min-have our bench control started as a head coach in timeout in a two-point play utes on the field, and Friday script, which is about 49 dif-1991 at Grand Valley State situation, when, clearly, the will be another short prac-ferent scenarios that will University, his bench control linesmen, the umpire and tice. occur during the game … script only ran 16 scenarios the referee get situated so 
“[Today] will be very We’ll do that in the Stadium. deep. Now, he even has a short, but one that they will We’ll put the headsets on scenario that involves the see KELLY/page 22 

SMC GOLF 
Belles set to start off fall season 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
As the school year begins with lots of new expecta­tions, Saint Mary’s looks to set the bar even higher this year. 
Big expectations are the norm now for the Belles. Last year, Saint Mary’s fin­ished as not only the best team in the MIAA; they were also one of the top teams in the NCAA. 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton said that the team has some particular goals they want to achieve. 
“Our goal this fall is to win the MIAA champi­onship, perform well in the two big tournaments, the O’Brien National Invitational and the NCAA Fall Preview and to be ranked in the top 5 in the country,” said Hamilton. 
Two of the top returning golfers for the Belles this upcoming season includes seniors Mary Kate Boyce and Rosie O’Connor. Both helped lead the team to the NCAAs last season and helped the Belles have one of their best seasons in school history. 
see BELLES/page 21 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish open season by hosting invitational 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will open its 2010 season on its home court, as the Irish will take on Marshall, Cal Poly and Arizona in the Shamrock Invitational this weekend. 
“This is always a really exciting time of the year for us,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “We’ve been here a couple weeks now just to practice, but it’s way more fun when you get to play.” 
Notre Dame, the Big East regular-season defending champions, finished last season 21-7. With six play­ers graduating and six freshmen added to the ros­ter, the Irish are prepared for a challenging weekend. 
“We’re really looking for­ward to it since we know we have a great lineup of teams this weekend and we know it’s going to be really competitive,“ Brown said. 
Brown and the Irish are looking to their strong line­up of returning players to continue to lead the team and show the freshman the ropes. Junior Kristen Dealy, an outside hitter, and senior Angela Puente, a libero, will co-captain the team while working with other return­ing players to take on the challenges they will be fac­
see PUENTE/page 22 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Preseason play continues 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will finish its three-game exhibition sched­ule with games against No. 18 Ohio State and Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne this week­end, after opening with a 3-2 victory over Illinois-Chicago Monday. 
Irish coach Bobby Clark said he is trying to establish a good core group of players as well as to solidify their partic­ular game plan as the Irish prepare for the regular sea­son. 
“In the first game, you wanted to try to get a result out of it, but at the same time, you wanted to try to peg down the team and how we’re going 
see TEAM/page 21 

Observer File Photo Then-senior Justin Morrow takes the ball down the feld in a Big East quarterfnals match against South Florida last season. 






