the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Universityselectsheadofundergraduateenrollment 
uate, Don has a deep love for the establishment of a new between enrollment and also held positions in enroll-

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
this institution and appreci-collaboration between the financial decisions for high ment at Cornell University, 
News Editor 
ates the distinctive education-Office of Undergraduate school students and their fam-Creighton University and 
al opportunities that Notre Admissions and the Office of ilies. Embry-Riddle Aeronautical 

Donald Bishop, a 1977 Notre Dame offers as a premier Student Financial Services, as “Financial considerations University, where he currently Dame graduate, will become C a t h o l i c he will oversee both offices. today are more important serves as the associate vice associate vice president for 
r e s e a r c h “Colleges have to under-than they’ve ever been,” he president for enrollment man-undergraduate enrollment, 
university,” stand that there’s a connec-said. “So connecting financial agement. effective Dec. 1, the University 
University tion between financial deci-aid and admissions is some-“I view it as an advantage announced Wednesday. 
President sion making in the college thing that now many schools that I left Notre Dame and Bishop, who has worked 
Fr. John investment and in the final have migrated to managing learned about other institu­with enrollment at several 
J e n k i n s college selection,” Bishop together so it’s a consistent tions and how they were being colleges and universities, suc­
said in a said. “So we are adopting this strategic planning process.” perceived by the public,” ceeds Dan Saracino, who 
p r e s s system to become more pro-Bishop began his career Bishop said. “Notre Dame has retired in June as director of 
release. “I ductive and efficient.” with the Notre Dame admis-a lot more resources now than undergraduate admissions. a m Bishop said the University sions office in 1977, and rose when I worked in the admis-Robert Mundy currently delighted would remain need-blind in to associate director of admis-sions office before. And what serves as interim director. to welcome him back to his its admission process, but the sions before he left in 1985 to we want to do is make sure 
“As an alumnus and the alma mater.” change allows Notre Dame to work as dean of enrollment at parent of a Notre Dame grad-Bishop’s hiring also marks examine the correlation Ohio Wesleyan University. He see ADMISSION/page 5 




International students share their experiences 
Foreign students adjust to life in America, studies at Notre Dame 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
When Yi Fang came from Beijing to begin Notre Dame Law School in 2008, she was constantly exhausted after a day spent speaking English and trying to understand a new cul­ture. 
“People figure because I speak English so well, I must know the culture already. But that’s totally not true,” Fang said. “I actually suffered from culture shock quite a lot.” 
Fang, a third-year law stu­dent and assistant rector in McGlinn Hall, said she now realizes that her experience is typical for international stu­dents. 
This year, 276 new, University-sponsored interna­
see FANG /page 4 



Students attend Notre Dame as study abroad, adjust to new culture 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
In the past month, Anna Tordjmann has had a lot of firsts 
— her first time being a student at Notre Dame, her first time in the United States and her first American football game. 
“At the first football game I didn’t understand the rules, and it was very long,” she said. “But I went on Wikipedia after­ward to look up the rules so I understood them. This last one I was so into the game. It was so intense and I was really nerv­ous.” 
Tordjmann is one of the 15 international students studying abroad at Notre Dame. Six of those students are here for the semester and nine for the year, Sam Lockhart, an international 
see ABROAD/page 5 



Students struggle with reception 
of Integrated Communication increase as well, Ellis said. 

By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
Services, said. “Imagine all the cars on 
News Writer 
“We really do care. We feel campus. If next year the num­
your pain and pass it on to [the ber of cars doubled, it would 

If that special someone has cell phone service providers] have an impact,” he said. yet to text you back, don’t as best we can,” Ellis said. “People would want parking panic. It’s probably just a prob-AT&T and Verizon account garages. Both Verizon and lem with the cell phone serv-for 90 percent of cell use on AT&T have had to add capaci­ice. campus and both have experi-ty.” 
Students using AT&T and enced problems this year as AT&T has had more trouble Verizon — the two main serv-they adjust to increases in traf-than Verizon and is preparing ice providers on campus — fic. to provide a new frequency on have recently experienced AT&T saw their use double campus. The new frequency is problems due to increased since last year and Verizon has capacity, Steven Ellis, director experienced a significant see CELL/page 4 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Senate discusses revamped pep rallies page 3  S. Carey interview page 9  Backup quarterbacks page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, September 16, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR  OOTBALL WEEKEND ACTIVITY?


THE OBSERVER 





P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik John Cameron Chris Allen Sara Felsenstein Cory Bernard 
Graphics Scene 
Lisa Hoeynk Alex Kilpatrick 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 

OFFBEAT 
Oregon rescuers dig camel ‘Moses’ out of sinkhole 
OREGON CITY, Ore. — It was an unusual call for Oregon firefighters: A 1,500­pound camel, named Moses, needed to be rescued. The call came in Tuesday night in Clackamas County after the Oregon City owners of the camel called firefighters to say that Moses had fallen into a sinkhole 6 to 8 feet deep and was possibly injured. The owners — who have several camels and run a children’s ministry — had tried to get the camel out themselves but failed. 
Firefighters had to care­fully shovel mud for several hours to free the animal. The rescuers were con­cerned Moses would break 
Adrienna Gomez-Perales 
sophomore sophomore LeMans Knott 
Vanessa Fisher 
freshman Regina 
Elliot Mitchem 
sophomore Knott 
Chelsea Young 
sophomore LeMans 
Chris Vanckunas 
“Tailgating and  “Being rowdy  “Mooching off  “Debauchery!”  “Being knotty  
excitement for  and crazy in  of my friend’s  with the  
the football  the stands with  parents’  Juggerknotts.”  
game.”  my friends and  tailgate.”  
celebrating  
after we win.”  





Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

his legs if he’d try to free himself while still partially buried. 
But Moses was patient, and eventually firefighters got him out. Moses lay on his side for an hour resting after the rescue. A veteri­narian said the animal looked unhurt. 
Shooter video games can improve decision making? 
SYDNEY — Violent video games like “Call of Duty” can help trigger-happy play­ers make decisions faster in real life, according to a study released on Wednesday. 
Researchers from New York’s University of Rochester found that first-person shooter games pro­duced a heightened sensitiv­ity and led to more efficient use of sensory evidence. 
“These benefits of video games stem only from action games, which almost always means shooter games, where you go through a maze and you don’t know when a villain will appear,” researcher Daphne Bavelier said in a statement. 
“It’s not exactly what you’d think of as mind enhancing. Strategy or role-playing games don’t have the same effect.” 
The study, published in the journal Current Biology, involved testing 26 people aged 18 to 25, none of whom had played shooting games before, over several months. 
IN BRIEF 
Ricardo Pau-Llosa will be giving a lecture today in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. A reception will follow at the Ashbaugh Decorative Arts Gallery. 
Dr. Arjun Makhijan, Fellow 
of the American Physical Society, UC-Berkeley trained engineer and President of Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, will present the seminar, “A Reliable, 100% Renewable, US Electricity System: Why nuclear and ‘clean’ coal may harm climate goals” at 7:30 
p.m. in 283 Galvin Life Science. 
A Law and Economics Symposium entitled “Housing: Law and Policy” will take place Friday at the Eck Hall of Law room 1140 from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Speakers include Robert C. Ellison, the Walter E. Meyer Professor of Property and Urban Law at Yale Law School, and Edward L. Glaeser , the Fred and Eleanor Glimp Professor of Economics in the Department 
of Economics at Harvard University. 
The annual Domer Run will take place Saturday at 9 a.m. beginning outside the stadi­um. There are three races: a 6-mile run, a 3-mile run, and a 2-mile family fun run/walk. Registration is $15 per per­son if you pre-register using RecRegister. Registration on the day of the race is $20 per person. Registration is open to the community. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 


THURSDAY friday saturday sunday MONDAY TUESDAY 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Sept. 15 edition ofThe Observer, the location of the Welcome Back picnic was misidentified. It will be at the Robinson Community Learning Center. In addition, the Eddy Street Common Block party will last until 4 p.m. Saturday and the Notre Dame band will play inTimes Square when they travel to New 



68 74 HIGH 7267 7179 

York City for the Army game.The Observer regrets these errors. 

50 54 LOW 4851 6059 






Thursday, September 16, 2010 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 





Group discusses pep rallies, beND 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student Senate discussed feedback from the Michigan pep rally and previewed the events planned for the upcoming beND campaign weekend at its meeting Wednesday. 
Several senators said resi­dents of their dorms had pos­itive feelings following the Michigan pep rally Friday. 
“A lot of the girls in my dorm were concerned about going back to Irish Green for the pep rallies,” Pasquerilla East senator Julie Doherty said. “But everyone said [the Michigan pep rally] was infi­nitely better than last year.” 
Some girls did complain that they had limited view of the stage, she said, and sena­tors said the dorms partici­pating in the walkover and the pep rally needed to be more organized. 
“Our dorm got completely separated,” Walsh Hall sena­tor Hallie Brewster said. “There were some points where I even lost some of my friends.” 
University Affairs chair Chase Riddle said many dorms still had to compete for location once they arrived on the grass in front of the stage. 
Movement of the dorms is under discussion for the Sept. 24 pep rally before the Stanford game, student body president Catherine Soler said. 
The next pep rally will be held in the Purcell Pavilion to gauge which venues students enjoy the most, she said. 


Soler also informed Senate members of details for the beND campaign weekend that begins Friday. 
The weekend will revolve around four events to engage the community, beginning with a picnic at the Robinson Learning Center in South Bend Friday at 5:30 p.m., Soler said. 
Other events include the Eddy Street Commons Block Party at 2 p.m. Saturday to promote Eddy Street ven­dors, and a presentation from attorney C.L. Lindsay Sunday at 8:30 p.m., she said. 
“We will have a panel dis­cussion on Monday called ‘State of Arrest’ with repre­sentatives from Notre Dame, NDSP, Excise Police, ResLife, a defense attorney and stu­dent government,” Soler said. 
The discussion will last 60 minutes and will be followed by questions from student government and students, she said. 
Senators said students would be interested in learn­ing what to do when police come to an off-campus party and why police are now arresting for underage drink­ing rather than issuing cita­tions 
Student government will begin the question and answer session with sugges­tions from the senators before opening the floor to students, Soler said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 





Saint Mary’s hosts Key4Womenforum 

By LUCIE GORDON 
News Writer 
Keybank’s Key4Women Forum, a seminar designed to educate and empower busi­nesswomen, will be held today at Saint Mary’s College. 
Cindy Solomon, a nationally renowned speaker and the president of Solomon and Associates, will deliver the keynote address. Solomon has con­
sulted organiza-“I think it’s pretty in the area. 
tions including neat what they’re The forum Google, Cisco and costs $10 and 
doing for Kelly’s 
the Ritz Carlton. will benefit “It really is a Foundation.” the Kelly great seminar,” C a r e s said Martha Foundation, 
Martha Smith 
Smith, project an organiza-
Project director
director of the tion estab­
Women’s 
Women’s lished by Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship Notre Dame Initiative (WEI) at Initiative football coach Art of Creating True Customer and Employee Loyalty,” will give women suggestions on how to conduct their business­es, based on her own success as an entrepreneur. 
She will particularly empha­size the importance of estab­lishing long-term relationships with both employees and cus­tomers. The event will also give local business owners a chance to meet and network with other busi­ness owners 
Saint Mary’s. WEI partnered with Keybank to bring the seminar to campus. 
Smith said the program shares a lot of the same goals and values as WEI, and the partnership “seemed like a natural fit.” 
Key4Women, founded in 2005, lends money to qualified women entrepreneurs so they can start and maintain suc­cessful businesses. It also strives to offer advice to help businesswomen set their com­panies apart from the crowd. 
This particular forum will travel across the nation and stop in 15 different cities. 
Solomon’s talk, “The Customer of the Future: The Brian Kelly 
and his wife, Paqui, that supports several organizations, but promotes breast cancer awareness in particular. 
“I think it’s pretty neat what they’re doing for Kelly’s foun­dation,” Smith said. 
Although today’s forum will primarily include local entre­preneurs, Smith hopes the forum will return next year and involve Saint Mary’s stu­dents. 
The forum will take place at 
11:30 a.m. at the Hilton Garden Inn on the Saint Mary’s campus. 

Contact Lucie Gordon at lgordo01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 16, 2010 
and health care and optional workshops ranging from “Catholicism 101” to American 



Fang 
continued from page 1 
tional students entered Notre Dame, making it the largest incoming class of international students in recent memory, according to McKenna Pencak, assistant director of communi­cations and outreach for International Student Services and Activities. In 2009, around 250 new international students entered the University. 
“In comparison to last year, there has been an increase,” Pencak culture. 
“Many students experience culture shock, and we can pro­vide them resources to work through that ... but it’s very dif­ferent for every student,” Pencak said. 
Sophomore Ava Lee, who is South Korean and went to mid­dle school and high school in Shanghai, said she did not expe­rience culture shock when she came to Notre Dame. She said the American students whom she met, howev­er, were shocked 

s a i d . “Undergraduate admissions is strongly trying to recruit interna­ “Many students experience culture shock, and we can provide them  to meet her — she spoke per­fect English and decided to attend an  
tional students.” These 276 stu­dents represent 60 countries,  resources to work through that ... but it’s very different for  American uni­versity, despite never having lived in the  
Pencak said. Eighty-nine of  every student.”  United States. “I knew  I  
these  new  stu­ would  have  to  
dents are under- McKenna Pencak  experience some  
graduates.  Assistant director for  changes coming  
Pencak said the  communications and  here,  so  I  was  
University is s p e c i f i c a l l y recruiting in Asia and Latin  outreach for International Student Services and Activities  prepared for that, but I don’t think I had a major culture  
America.  The  shock,” Lee said.  
largest group of  “I think people  

students this year came from had culture shock when they China. met me.” 
Once international students Lee said she looked at other arrive at Notre Dame, Pencak American universities, but chose said many of them experience Notre Dame for its strong busi­the culture shock Fang ness school and also for its lack described. To better aid the of diversity. adjustment period, International “I also thought it might be Student Services and Activities interesting to come to a school held a two-and-a-half day inter-where diversity might not be as national student orientation for high,” she said. the first time this fall, compared Fang, on the other hand, visit-to the one-day program it host-ed the counseling center during ed in past years. her second year to discuss her 
Pencak said the orientation culture shock. She said the included mandatory workshops, counselor showed her a chart which covered topics such as with a curve outlining the stages maintaining immigration status of adjustment for international students. stand the unique culture of 

“I can actually identify myself Notre Dame. with each stage of that curve,” “The spirit of Notre Dame lies Fang said. “Because Notre in the undergrad culture, so I Dame is a very really wanted to supporting envi-get to know ronment … once “I don’t think I had a where I am call­[students] stick ing home,” she 
major culture shock ... 
through the bot-said. 
tom tier, their I think people had Lee also had spirit goes up and culture shock when the opportunity they are able to to share her 
they met me.” 
find their own experiences as identity in this an international new environ-Ava Lee student. Over the ment.” Sophomore summer she had 
Culture shock is an internship similar to the through the adjustment of undergraduate Office of Undergraduate freshmen to college life, Fang Admissions and Student said. In her role as an assistant International Business Council rector, her personal experience to promote Notre Dame in Asia. made it easy to relate to under-She traveled to high schools graduates. She also said the telling students and principals position allowed her to under-about the University, which she said is not as well known to Asian as other highly-ranked American universities. 
Lee said even though she did not feel homesick during her freshman year, the international student experience at Notre Dame is different from other universities. For example, she had to learn about the game of football and adjust to life outside a big city. While her friends who also came to school in the U.S. did not have to make these same transitions, Lee said the Notre Dame environment is per­fect for her. 
“I actually love it here because I think it’s a good balance between going back home … and coming here, where I can actual­ly focus and study,” she said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 




Cell 
continued from page 1 
expected to greatly improve service, but will not be avail­able for a few more months. 
On-campus cell phone serv­ice is mainly provided by small antennas placed around cam­pus, Ellis said. 
The University contracted with a company called NextG to construct these small anten­nas and to place them so that they provided optimal cover­age while remaining out of sight. Ellis said the University made sure the antennas did not affect the aesthetics of campus and went to extra lengths to keep the antennas camouflaged and out of view. 
After these small antennas were constructed, they were made available to service providers. AT&T signed on first, followed by Verizon, and recently Sprint. T-Mobile expressed no interest in using the antennae and relies on off-campus towers, Ellis said. 
Aside from problems adjust­ing to increased traffic, there are also “in building” prob­lems, which include certain buildings or areas where serv­ice is inconsistent or lacking, Ellis said. 
These problems arise because the small antennas are less effective at penetrat­ing buildings and new con­struction changes the arrange­ment of buildings on campus. 
“The new frequency should help with this, but it is some­thing we’ll continue to work on,” he said. “We are in the process of identifying any buildings the new frequency might not reach.” 
As a possible solution to “in building” issues, Ellis offered the option of using devices called femto cells, which can be placed by a window and provide supplementary service for an area a bit bigger than a dorm room. These devices are offered by both Verizon and AT&T, he said. 
After installing femto cells in dorm rooms, there is a waiting period, which AT&T says takes up to 90 minutes. But Ellis said in his experience, it can take up to four or five hours. 
“The installation process is onerous, burdensome and dif­ficult to do, but it is an option,” he said. 

Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


page 5 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 16, 2010 
SGA 




Members discuss co-exchange issue 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Saint Mary ’s Student Government Association (SGA) continued to discuss the co-exchange program and explored ways it could partner with Notre Dame’s student gov­ernment at its meeting Wednesday. 
Last week, SGA held a forum regarding co-exchange, which was meant to allow student voices to be hear, student body president Rachael Chesley said. But she said many stu­dents did not feel the adminis­tration listened to what they had to say. 
“I think in the upcoming weeks, we are going to stay on the administration because I don’t want them to think that we’ve forgotten about this and that students are suddenly OK,” she said. 
Chesley encouraged SGA to consider creative ways for the administration to make up for the lack of co-exchange meal ticket availability. 
SGA also created a new finance committee, which will be responsible for creating the 

Admission 
continued from page 1 
we’re using those resources very actively and creatively.” 
Bishop said his work at other institutions also allowed him to understand the qualities that allow Notre Dame to stand apart from other universities. 
“I think Notre Dame is excep­tional and not like other schools. It’s really unique in American higher education,” he said. 
To effectively attract appli­cants who would thrive at Notre Dame, Bishop said he will engage current students, parents and faculty. He wants to learn why students and par­ents chose Notre Dame, and also which qualities professors see as most valuable in their students. 
For example, Notre Dame is known for students with strong character, in addition to aca­demic profiles and test scores. Bishop said would like to hold students to an even higher standard than the traditionally budget, as well as working with clubs and organizations for sponsorship purposes. 
In the past, much of SGA’s meeting time was spent dis­cussing whether or not to give clubs money, which hindered productivity, Chesley said. 
“Now, the finance committee will take care of that end of things,” she said. 
SGA also discussed several partnership opportunities with Notre Dame’s student govern­ment. Chesley said there were two opportunities to work directly with the University’s student leaders. 
SGA planned to co-sponsor an event where attorney C.L. Lindsay would visit the com­munity and to co-sponsor a program that reaches out to local businesses and creates a partnership so students can receive discounts. 
“It will encourage students to go out to the local businesses, which will help them, and it’ll help students because it will be more cost-effective to go out,” Chesley said. “Also, it’s going to benefit the community.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
strong Notre Dame graduate. 
“So how do we balance the intellectual ability of students and the emotional ability?” He said. “That’s very lofty and it will take some time, but it will be interesting to make the effort.” 
Bishop has an interest in research, which he said he owes to both his undergraduate and master’s degrees in eco­nomics from Notre Dame. He has extensively researched the selection process at top univer­sities around the country, and he plans to explore which desired attributes of students could play a bigger role in the admissions process at Notre Dame. 
“It is important for Notre Dame to succeed and to be the most attractive intellectual opportunity for students who want to use that success to serve others,” he said. “So the first priority is pulling the team together and just trying to think creatively if there are other things that we can do.” 


Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 



Abroad 
continued from page 1 
student advisor for the International Student Services and Activities Office, said. 
Tordjmann, a junior politi­cal science major from France, said she did not encounter many difficulties adjusting to American cul­ture. 
“This is my first time in the United States,” she said. “The culture is not very different from French culture, because in France there’s American culture everywhere.” 
Tordjmann said the Notre Dame community has been welcoming, helpful and friendly. 
“It’s a healthy atmosphere,” she said. 
Yamel Cardona Gloria, a senior from Mexico, is also studying abroad at Notre Dame. She found out about Notre Dame through a pro­fessor at her school in Puebla, la Universidad de las Américas Puebla (UDLAP). 
“I’m the only one from my school who came to [study in] America,” she said. “I wanted to do science research, and I found that the laboratories in Notre Dame are excellent and the science professors here do excellent research.” 
Both students said there are differences between life at home and life at Notre Dame. 
Tordjmann, who lives in Lyons Hall, said dorm life has been an interesting adjust­ment because universities in Paris do not offer a similar living situation. 
“In Paris, we all have apartments, and we’re in the core of the city,” she said. 
Cardona, a clinical bio­chemistry student at UDLAP, agreed that living in a dorm has been a unique experi­ence. She said universities in Puebla have dormitories, but they do not have the same atmosphere as dormitories at Notre Dame. 
Cardona, who lives in Ryan Hall, said her dorm has been a source of support through­out her transition to Notre Dame. 
“I like my dorm a lot. The rectors, rector assistants and girls there help me with everything … like buying books, registering for classes and [understanding] flex points,” she said. 
Another difference Tordjmann noticed between college life in Paris and col­lege life at Notre Dame is that Notre Dame students fill their schedules to the brim, leaving little room for free time. 
For students in Paris, time is more fluid — not every hour of every day is sched­uled. 
Tordjmann also said American courses seem to have much longer readings assigned for each class period than her courses in Paris did. 
Cardona said her course­work at Notre Dame is very similar to her coursework in Mexico. The language barrier has not been a significant issue, because most science articles she read at UDLAP were written in English. 
The biggest difference, she said, is material here is cov­ered in a shorter amount of time. 
“We start school earlier [in Mexico,] and we don’t have any fall breaks,” she said. “There is a greater density of information [in the courses] here.” 
Both students plan on trav­eling during their stay in America, particularly to big cities like New York, Chicago and Boston. 
“I want to start with the East Coast, then go to Los Angeles. I also want to go to Colorado,” Tordjmann said. “I don’t have any [set] plans, but I certainly want to travel as much as I can.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 




The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 6 Thursday, September 16, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Section 32 
I was sitting comfortably in the press box this Saturday, taking in another great matchup between Notre Dame and Michigan. In the press box, you can’t raise your voice, express any emotions or do pushups with the folks over at ESPN. 
Over in section 32, a group of bud­dies were enjoying the game with their fellow sopho­mores. 

Somehow a group of two Chris Masoud female Michigan 

A ssistant 
fans managed to get by stadium Sports Editor security and work their way to the bench in front of them. Proudly wearing their maize and blue, they began displaying their support for Michigan football. They went so far as to cheer for Denard Robinson when he made a big play. 
Thoroughly disgusted, one of these sophomores pushed the two girls in front of him off the bench. For the rest of the first quarter, the entire section blast­ed this kid for being too aggressive and physical, forcing him to leave the game. 
I’ve been a member of Men Against Violence since freshman year, but sec­tion 32, are you serious? 
After talking to a couple of eye wit­nesses, the “push” was somewhere between a love tap and an arm tackle against Denard Robinson. Either way, it’s ineffective and harmless. 
More importantly, it is the ultimate example of why the Notre Dame student section is a joke and why I’ve stopped sitting there. 
If two Michigan fans somehow made it into my section, I would get down on my knees and praise God for such a great opportunity. How many times do you get to abuse someone guilt-free for four quarters, let alone two fans of your biggest rival in your own house? 
Shame on you, section 32. Not only did you not pray, you didn’t even acknowl­edge the contribution of someone who took initiative. He recognized an enemy in Irish territory and did his alma mater proud. 
Section 32, what was the last thing you did for your alma mater? Instead of applauding and encouraging the actions of one of your own, you disowned him. Instead of taking up his cause, you turned your backs against him. You’ve lost the right to call yourselves the Fighting Irish, and you are dead to me. Thanks to you and that YouTube video, we are finally living up to our reputation as the tamest student body in North America, hands down. 
There were nine total arrests this weekend. I could get more arrests if I threw a bridal shower next Friday night. There is absolutely no reason Arts and Letters majors should not be getting tossed every single Saturday, especially after a loss. Where is the obscene lan­guage? Where are the fights? 
Opposing fans should be physically afraid for their own well-being before coming into our house. Thanks to 32, they can rest assured that they will be well-treated and taken care of in the stu­dent section. 
If you don’t believe a word of what I’ve just said, I recommend sneaking into the student section at East Lansing. I hear the Spartans do a great job of welcom­ing the Irish. 
As for me, I will continue to sip club soda in the press box. I prefer going to church on Sunday afternoons, not Saturday. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Where’s the protest? 
On Monday, former U.S. Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich will be on campus showcasing his new docu­mentary, “Nine Days Which Changed the World,” which recounts the nine-day visit Pope 
Ryan Williams 
John Paul II made to his 
freethoughts
native Poland in June of 1979, a visit that embold­ened opposition to Soviet commu­nism in Eastern Europe. 
Now, for the most part, Gingrich has been considered a pretty smart guy — he was the intellectual force behind the “Contract With America” that helped Republicans win back control of the House of Representatives in 1994 after 40 years of Democratic control, and he has authored numerous books on history and politics. And while there are numerous issues on which I dis­agree with the former speaker, I was pleased to hear Notre Dame had invited him to come show his film and give his spiel. 
This University ought to be a place where people of all political and reli­gious persuasions can come to pres­ent their ideas and viewpoints in a respectful and constructive environ­ment. Fr. Jenkins eloquently defend­ed this notion when he invited the President to speak at Commencement in 2009, so it is no surprise that he is continuing to uphold this principle in inviting Gingrich. 
What is a little more surprising is the reaction to the former speaker’s visit among those students, faculty and alumni who so vehemently opposed Obama’s presence on cam-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
pus a year and a half ago. Or rather, the lack of a reaction from them. These people, who were so quick to yell and scream about how the President’s views were contrary to the teachings of the Church ought to examine some of the positions Gingrich has taken on those issues supposedly held dear by Catholics. Gingrich supports the death penalty, opposes extending health care cover­age to all Americans, and has voiced support for waterboarding, a form of torture. He’s also been divorced twice and had his fair share of extra­marital affairs. 
What’s more, for as smart as Gingrich is cracked up to be, he sure has a knack for saying some really stupid things. Just in the past few weeks, the former speaker has com­pared the construction of a mosque in Lower Manhattan to Nazis “putting up a sign next to the Holocaust Museum in Washington,” and has claimed that President Obama is operating under a “Kenyan, anti-colonial” worldview — a not so subtle hint that Gingrich is aligning himself with the “birthers” who don’t believe the President was born in the United States (and if that doesn’t say enough about him, I don’t know what will). 
Now all of these positions Gingrich holds are opposed by the Catholic Church, just as some of Obama’s were when he came to speak. So why is no one in an uproar over Gingrich coming to campus? Where are the handmade signs and the homemade t-shirts, the protests and the letters to the editor? Have we really all learned our lesson, have we realized just how ridiculous it was to protest the President of the United States coming to campus? I rather doubt it. 
You may argue that the circum­stances are different this time, because Notre Dame is not honoring the former speaker with a degree, as it awarded Obama. But the people who opposed his presence on campus were not just upset about the deci­sion to award him an honorary degree, they were also upset that he was being given a highly visible plat­form on which to speak. And for those who would say that Gingrich is here to speak about his film, and not about his controversial views, I would suggest that Obama was as likely to speak about his position on abortion as Gingrich is to talk about how he cheated on his wife. 
No, I think the reason why no one is going to show up to protest against Gingrich is because he satisfies what has become the basic litmus test for students on this campus (and for the Republican Party in general, but that’s another matter): Gingrich sup­ports restricting a woman’s right to chose. It’s a shame that this compli­cated issue has come to be seen in such black and white terms by so many on this campus. In reality it is anything but, and we as a community would be better served by recogniz­ing that. 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Truth is beautiful, without doubt; but so are lies.” 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
U.S. poet 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Most human beings have analmost infinite capacity for takingthings for granted.” 
Aldous HuxleyEnglish novelist 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

Thursday, September 16, 2010 page 7 
Deepening our commitments 

This Tuesday, Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, Director of Campus Ministry for the past 21 years, departed for Rome to become the newly-elected Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross worldwide. The Notre Dame 
Fr. Lou DelFra 
community — both the people who Faithpoint live here, and the institutions that thrive here — have been blessed by his wisdom and holi­ness. 
Holiness — being a human vessel of God’s grace and goodness — is always most powerfully experienced person­ally, so I will begin with the personal. 
When I first came to Notre Dame fif­teen years ago, as a single, male employee of Notre Dame, working as Pastoral Director for the Alliance for Catholic Education, I had to spend no insignificant part of my day’s energies convincing the Holy Cross priests with whom I worked that I myself did NOT want to become a priest! After a cou­ple years of determined resistance, I found myself in a circle of Holy Cross priests being introduced to a bishop by Fr. Dick Warner. “Your eminence,” Fr. Warner began, “this is Fr. Dan Groody, CSC, Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC, and Fr. Joe Carey, CSC. And this is Lou DelFra, ILC.” Everyone looked up at Fr. Warner quizzically. What in the world was an ILC? “An Intimate Lay Collaborator,” he said with just the feint of a smile. A wave of relief washed across my face. Finally, I had convinced Fr. Warner of my non-voca­tion to the priesthood. Then, he nudged the bishop with his elbow and mumbled, “But not for long.” I entered the seminary later that year. 
As I wrestled with my vocational decision over the next few months, Fr. Warner spoke to me from the depth of his personal relationship with God. He told me of the unconditional love of God for each of us. That God invited each of us into a deeper commitment to Him, not as a test to earn his love, but as a way of entering more deeply into that love, which was already ours. That each of us has a vocation to place our lives at the service of others, especially those in need, which, he assured me, is where our truest joy lies. These insights provid­ed me with a great deal of interior freedom and courage, even in the midst of a seemingly restrictive and fearful calling from God. It was a freedom I saw verified in the brim­ming, joyful freedom with which Fr. Warner lived his vocation. His life wit­nesses the reality that love — whether in marriage, friendship, or religious commitment — invites an always deepening commitment to the other. Invitation to go deeper — “Come and see,”“Come, follow me” — is perhaps Jesus’ most frequent act in the Gospels. It is certainly a favorite pas­time of Fr. Warner’s, as countless Notre Dame students, alums, and staff have experienced personally. Everyone who encounters him is invit­ed to delve deeper in their commit­ments, especially in their service to the Gospel. 
Our Holy Cross community fondly tells and re-tells a story from Fr. Warner’s days as our community Provincial, the “assignment dis­penser” in our community. A difficult 
UWIRE 


Worth every penny 
After more than a year of imprisonment in an Iranian jail, Sarah E. Shourd is finally able to come back to the United States. The young woman, along with two other American citizens, was captured in June 2009 by the Iranian 
Harvard 
police for illegally tres-

Crimson
passing the Iranian 

Editorial Board
border while on a sup­posed hike in the Iraqi 

The H arvard 
mountains. Last week, 

Crim son 
the Iranian govern­ment decided to release the woman — who recently developed both a lump in her breast and precancerous cervical cells— upon the payment of a $500,000 bail. Despite the negative incentive — for others to demand high bails in exchange for pris­oners — that might arise from accepting the deal proposed by the Iranian government, paying the bail was the right decision. 
Getting a citizen back from a country that is holding her prisoner, especially when the detainee is in extremely poor health and runs the risk of becoming incurable, is worth $500,000. There is a worry that pay­ing the bail will lead to a slippery slope, with the Iranian government asking more and more money in exchange for the release of other prisoners accused of all sorts of misconduct. This possibility might indeed become reality, but in the present circumstance it is worth allowing a serious­ly ill American citizen back to the United States. Naysayers must keep in mind that, in the future, steps can be taken in order to make a situation like the present one less likely to happen, and thus responding to the bail request in this instant is not necessarily a step toward perpetual payments to Iran. 
Although we are glad Shourd is returning to the U.S., it is worth noticing that if the hikers were near the Iranian border, they behaved extremely irresponsibly as they completely disregarded the travel warning issued by the U.S. Bureau of Consular Affairs. According to the Bureau, people should avoid all but essential travel within Iraq; had the hikers been more cautious about their vacation destination, this regret­table situation would not have arisen. 
It is also necessary to keep in mind that if the hikers did indeed cross the Iranian bor­der, it was within the purview of the Iranian government to arrest them. The legitimacy of the hikers’ arrest, however, does not in any way justify the fact that the prisoners were detained for more than a year without a trial. The slow procedure of the Iranian judiciary system was wrong and should be condemned. Nevertheless, the appraisal of unidentified foreigners who crossed the Iranian border was legitimate, according to the laws of the country — and it is a prac­tice that might lawfully be enforced again. In the future, travelers should be more careful. 
Paying the bail for Shourd leaves, howev­er, a very problematic issue on the table: the future of the other two hikers who are still held captive. As a condition of the money transfer, more information about the other two prisoners and about the prospects for their trial should be requested. In the best-case scenario, Shourd’s liberation might ease the release process of her companions. In the meantime, Shourd will be able to come back to the U.S., where she will receive all the treatments that she needs. After all, $500,000 is not too high a price for a life. 
This article first appeared in the Sept. 15 edition of The Harvard Crimson, the daily publication serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
assignment needed to be filled, and Fr. Warner called a young priest into his office to persuade him. He described the position, and the young priest’s face paled. The priest launched into a 15-minute litany of reasons why he couldn’t — and wouldn’t — do the job. Fr. Warner lis­tened serenely, furrowed his brow, and with his trademark half-consol­ing, half-mischievous twinkle he gets in his eyes, said, “I think I heard a Yes in there.” The young priest stared back disbelievingly, recounting his tirade and wondering where a Yes could possibly have been gleaned. Two hours later, the young priest left the office with his new assignment. He filled it with great grace and revived a struggling school. 
From the day I entered the semi­nary in 1998 through these first six years of my priesthood, Fr. Warner has been personally present for every significant moment of my religious life. From my first vows in Colorado Springs, to my ordination at Notre Dame, from the night in Dillon Hall when I learned of my father’s death to my grandmother’s funeral in Philadelphia. Fr. Warner knows well the secret that commitments are more readily deepened when done in the companionship of friends. 
Forgive these personal stories. I tell them because it is in the personal that another’s holiness is most authenti­cally experienced. The truly amazing reality is — how many others tell the same stories about Fr. Warner. Holy Cross religious worldwide. Members of the Notre Dame family. Fisher Hall residents, where Fr. Warner has lived the past 22 years. Fr. Warner’s own family and friends. 
As our Provincial, Fr. Warner guid­ed our Holy Cross community in Chile through the travails of the Pinochet dictatorship as we were stripped of our apostolates. He walked with our Uganda community as they worked in opposition to the cruelties of Idi Amin. He stood in Bangladesh in the midst of civil war when some of our broth­ers and sisters lost their lives. He has made countless visits to counsel and encourage our communities in India, Kenya, Peru, Ghana, Mexico and Brazil. As the pioneering Chair of Holy Cross’ Solidarity Fund, he has supported myriad projects on behalf of human promotion among the poor­est of the world. Most recently, he has committed himself to rebuilding our community in Haiti, especially our 15 Holy Cross schools, destroyed by recent catastrophe, and to creating a new National Teacher-Training Institute there. The people in each of these places could have written a col­umn just like this one. 
Thank you, Fr. Warner. You have changed our lives, and invited us to deepen our commitment to the Gospel. We are now walking with you, as you have been called to deepen your own commitment in this extraor­dinary way. 
This week’s article is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director of Bible Studies and ACE chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 



Scene

page 8 Thursday, September 16, 2010 
way or another: Join the club on Village or something. make your living just doing what commercial music, what do you By DECLAN SULLIVAN that one. You can’t really bust out Yea, there are a ton of awesome you want like that. think of pop music today? Scene Writer the trumpet to get girls. musicians up here, but yeah, espe-(laughs) Yeah, it’s amazing. I like pop a lot; my wife only likes 
(laughs) You just picked the cially growing up, it was like ‘Oh that stuff, so that’s what’s on in the 

Whereas the focus of Bon Iver is wrong instrument. man, I’ll never be able to do any-So with Bon Iver and now being a car. I don’t know all the artists, but usually on founder Justin Vernon, thing unless I’m in L.A. or New solo artist and everything, are I’m definitely into hip-hop and a lot drummer S. Carey — real of pop. Some of it’s bad, 
on Earth. What other instruments do you York or Chicago or whatever,’ but people ever just like ‘Oh my god, Ok last question, a bit of a tough 
Recently, I managed to get a play? It’s not really beat-intensive now it seems like there’s a bunch of it’s the guy from Bon Iver: It’s one. If you could pitch your album phone interview with Sean and ask like on a lot of other solo albums Eau Claire bands getting some Sean Carey!’ as a movie, how would you do it? him a few questions about getting by drummers. Yours was a lot recognition. It’s a really cool, really It’s happened, yeah, mostly in Like, do you think it tells a story, into music, making his own album more melodic and ambient, which supportive community. Eau Claire — It’s a pretty small and what is that story? and life as a bonafide celebrity … I found kind of surprising. Did you town — but it’s happened in Oh man, that’s good. There’s not well, sort of. play any other instruments on the Yeah, that sounds great: we need Minneapolis and places like that, a specific story. I can see certain 
album? some more stuff coming out the but not a lot: it’s kind of random. It images and scenes for songs I can So first the basics: Where are you I played most everything on the Midwest. What was it like creat-happened once while I was in see the album starting off. It’s like from, how did you get into music, album except a little bit of pedal ing an album? Like, how did you Target. morning, like it starts on a ship or a when did you first want to be in a steel [guitar]; I don’t know how to even start? boat, but the camera is not on the band, all that stuff? play that. I also didn’t play any of Well, I didn’t start out thinking I Really? ship. It’s focusing on everything 
Sure. I grew up in Lake Geneva, the woodwind stuff. My friend Nick was going to write an album. I had (laughing) Yeah, some suburb of around. It’s all foggy and dark blue. Wisc., and I started playing drums played a little bit of the guitar stuff, a couple song ideas, and it just Minneapolis. It was weird, but it The sun is just coming out, but it’s when I was 10. I was into music and this guy Jeremy Boettcher went from there. I recorded a few was flattering too. I mean meeting still all cloudy and foggy. even before that: my mom is a played bass, but yeah, the rest was songs, and as time went on I got fans … yeah it’s cool. You’re going somewhere, but you singer, and my dad is a musician mostly me. further into those songs and don’t really know where. Then you and music teacher. I was listening recorded more layers, then I had Do you ever know what to say? start to see the edge of land and the to a lot of music as a kid, for sure. I Where’d you find the time to pick friends come over and record stuff Yeah, sometimes I have no idea different textures of the shore. You remember I saw my oldest sister up all those instruments? I couldn’t play, and by that time I what to say. I just kind of say ‘Hey get to some pier, and you’re dock-play in the middle school jazz band, Well, ever since I was growing had come up with more songs until … thanks for coming to say hi …’ ing at this pier, but you’re still not and I thought that was the coolest up, I wanted to play other instru-finally I just had this full length Yeah, I’m probably not the best at sure what your journey is: I’m not thing, especially the drummer. ments, especially guitar and piano. thing. just jumping into conversations like sure what happens after that. 
I worked on them for a long time, that. Really, for jazz band? I used to be trying to learn Ben Folds songs, or When did you find time to do all S. Carey is making a stop in in it. I never really pictured it as a Weezer and Radiohead songs. You that with Bon Iver going on? Embracing the whole famous South Bend of all places on Sept. 23 cool thing. can learn drum parts, but it’s more Well, we would go out on tour for rock star person? at Subkirke — and old church 
(laughs) Yeah, I thought it was fun to learn the other parts. I a month and then be back for three Yeah, don’t really want to be that turned concert hall — where he’ll really cool. I played in jazz bands learned a lot of the melodic percus-weeks. I didn’t have anything to do guy. I like being successful, but I’m be headlining his first show on his until … well I still do. I definitely sion stuff — vibes, marimba — at when I was home besides rest and not going to be Mr. Cool Rock Star tour. His album is great, haunting thought it was cool; I guess I’m a University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire. hang out with family and friends, (laughing) or whatever. and melodic, and hearing it in an nerd. so I had some time to focus on it. old church should only add to the 
I didn’t know there was a big It’s not like I was coming back and In the grand scope of things, your vibe. It will be an awesome show. Yeah, I guess everyone who music scene in Wisconsin; I working a day job or anything. music isn’t exactly on the Hot 
Contact Declan Sullivan at 

played an instrument in high always pictured you [and Bon 100 Billboard. As the kind of the school was kind of a nerd in one Iver] being from Greenwich That’s got to be sweet just to musician that plays relatively non-dsulliv9@nd.edu 



By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
with lead singer 

Eastern Conference Ostrander about Champions was, not too long part of the ago, an unknown indie band soundtrack and from Philly. Now the trio, con-their music-mak­sisting of lead singer and gui-ing process: tarist Josh Ostrander, drummer Greg Lyons and bassist Melissa Why did you choose the name Dougherty, lives in Los Angeles. Eastern Conference 
They were brought to the Champions? spotlight twice this year, with a We kind of picked it before spot on the “Eclipse” sound-the whole Internet thing took track as well as their rendition off, and we didn’t realize that of Bob Dylan’s “Don’t Think we would have to type it out all Twice, It’s All Right” featured the time. We chose it because on the season finale of “Gossip we’re from Philly. We have a Girl.” hockey team there called the they win, they call themselves the Eastern Conference Champions. 


How does it feel having a song on the “Eclipse” soundtrack? Do you feel more successful as a band? 
It’s crazy. We thought we 
might have a chance to get it. We submitted a few songs, and they really liked the third song we submitted. When we finally got the call, it was kind of crazy, for an unsigned, unknown band to get that spot. It was a sign that we were doing the right thing, and that we should just keep doing what we were doing. 
Team Edward or Team Jacob? 
Melissa is definitely Team Jacob, but Greg and I are Team Edward. It’s funny; when we went to the Red Carpet, everyone asked us that, but we didn’t know much about the movie, so we would just say, ‘what?’ in response. 
Your new LP is rumored to release in the fall. How would you describe your sound for the new album? 
The LP is probably not going to come out until the beginning of next year. We’ve been talking to labels, but they’re probably not going to want it to come out until next year. But as for our sound, we take risks that we probably wouldn’t have taken five years ago. 
Can you briefly describe your music-making process? 
It’s pretty straight-ahead and easy to get things done. I usual­ly come up with ideas on guitar and piano, and then we do a rough demo. Greg and Melissa will tell me what they like and don’t like about the demo. 
Your cover of Bob Dylan’s “Don’t Think Twice, It’s All Right” was featured on the season finale of Gossip Girl. Is Bob Dylan a major influence on your music? 
Yeah, Dylan’s just kind of cool. He’s the master. When we put out the last LP, we would put up a cover each week. The Dylan cover is the one I picked, and Gossip Girl picked it up and decided to use it for the show. 
Who are your other musical influences? 
We’re not too bothered with new music. We tend to listen to classic rock when we’re driving around as a band. We try not to pull too much from anybody. When we’re writing new music, we try to sound as natural as possible. 
How has your music evolved over the past few years? 
I think we take more risks than we normally would. Once we were at a label, we started writing songs that we wanted to write. We said, let’s put a five-minute song on the CD. Let’s let our music go where we want it to go. We’re very excited about the new record that’s coming out and for people to listen to it. It’s a really well thought-out record. 
Anything else you would like to add? 
Yes, come to our Chicago show on Sept. 24. 


Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
The Observer 


Scene

Thursday, September 16, 2010 page 9 
‘Get Him to the Greek’ 10 p.m., DeBartolo 101 
This week’s SUB movie is the hilarious follow -up to 2008 ’s “Forgetting Sarah Marshall. ” In “Get Him to the Greek, ” Russell Brand stars again as narcissistic musician Aldous Snow. An intern (Jonah Hill, also of “Sarah Marshall ”) is hired to escort Snow from his home in England to the Greek Theater in Los Angeles . Ridiculous mishaps and general hilarity ensue in this summer hit. “Get Him to the Greek” is showing in DeBartolo 101 Thursday at 10 p.m. The film will also be shown Friday and Saturday at 8:30 and 10:30 
p.m. Tickets are $3. 
Niles Haunted House Scream Park 8 to 11 p.m., Niles, Mich. 
Start the Halloween season 
off 
right with the Niles Haunted House Scream Park in Niles, Mich. The park fea ­tures five different haunted attractions: a brand new Haunted House, Zach ’s Zombie Motel, stories of phantom pirate ships at the Legend of Pirates Cove, a mile -long Haunted Hayride and a haunted maze at the Field of Screams. The park is 

open 
from 8 to 11 p.m. and all attractions are under $10. The Niles Haunted House Scream Park runs on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays throughout all of October. 


Cavanaugh Game Watch on North8 p.m., North Quad 
Not making the road trip to Mi chig an St ate thi s weekend? Join your fellow students and watch th e Irish take on the Spartans thi s Sat ur day night whe n Cavanaugh Hall sponsors a game watch on North Quad . Bring your friends, some bl ankets and th e Shi rt over to watch th e game on a big screen right in th e middl e of North Quad from 8 p.m. to mid ­night and che er the Irish to victory. Don ’t miss this 
opp or tunity to show yo ur school spi rit on North Quad Saturday night . 
‘Metropolis’
3 p.m., DPAC 
See the newly restored ver ­sion of Fritz Lang’s film master­piece with 25 minutes of brand new footage. “Metropolis, ” a classic of silent cinema, takes place in a futuristic dystopia divided strictly by class. This social hierarchy is shaken up when the son of a rich city offi­cial falls in love with a work-ing-class prophet who heralds the coming of a savior to reform society. A copy of the film with an additional 25 minutes of footage was recently discovered in Argentina and is being screened in the Browning Cinema at DPAC at 3 p. m. Tickets are $3 for students. 

Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 



Scene Staff Report 
Shamrock Snack Shack: McGlinn Hall 
Where: First floor, special events kitchen 
When: Tuesday through Thursday, 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
Everything in this cute little shop is less than a dollar! Volunteers from McGlinn bake everything — includ­ing cupcakes, cookies and a gluten-free “bag of the week” item (this week’s is puppy chow). Besides the daily offerings, students (and par­ents) can order specially baked cakes by emailing dmckane@nd.edu. Those prices vary according to the size and intricacy of the order. All profits go to the dorm. For addition­al information, join the Facebook page. 
Ed’s: St. Edward’s Hall 
Where: Room 106 When: Sunday through Thursday, 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m.; Friday through Saturday, 12 a.m. to 3 a.m. 
The newest dorm food establish­ment on campus is Ed’s, serving up a mix of crispy carbohydrates and ice cream shop favorites. Prices range from $2 to $5 for hot Paninis, moz­zarella sticks, Pizza Bites, milk ­shakes, smoothies and “ice cream novelties, ” according to Brian Conway, vice president of St. Edward’s Hall. The profits go back into the dorm to fund signature events like Founder’s Week and the Yacht Dance. 
Highlander Grill: Duncan Hall 
Where: First floor, 24-hour lounge 
When: Sunday through Thursday, 10 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.; Friday through Saturday, 12 a.m. to 
2:30 a.m. 
A variety of backyard barbecue joys fill out the menu at the Grille, including staples like hamburgers and cheese dogs. The signature dish, however, is “The FT” (named for the hall’s rector, Fr. Tom Eckert). The $3 chicken sandwich is topped with bacon, barbecue sauce and moz­zarella cheese. 
Bullwinkles: Dillion 
When: Sunday, 9 p.m. to 12:30 
a.m.; Monday through Thursday 
9:30 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
Bullwinkles is the training site for future entrepreneurs. One Dillonite is chosen to run Bullwinkles every year. He hires his own staff from amongst his dorm mates and choos­es their salary. He keeps the rest of the profits since he is basically the owner for the year. Their menu con­sists of pizza bagels, buffalo chicken wings, chicken nuggets, cheese fries, nachos, mozzarella sticks and pret­zels. Special combo meals, such as the P. Diddy Platter and the Happy Meal, are provided. Prices start as low as $0.50. For additional infor­mation check out their webpage on https://www.nd.edu/~dillon/bullwin­kles.html. 
Check back tomorrow for more pro­files of dorm eateries. 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 16, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 



Young still considers Bush Heisman winner 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Vince Young says he didn’t want the Heisman Trophy anyway. 
The Heisman Trust decided Wednesday to vacate the 2005 award after Reggie Bush gave it up Tuesday. The news came shortly after Young talked to reporters, trying to dodge questions about the Heisman because he’s busy preparing for his first career start against Pittsburgh. 
The man who finished a dis­tant second to Bush in the Heisman voting has been del­uged with questions over the past week. Did Young want the Heisman? Would Young accept? 
Young said in a couple of tweets Tuesday night that he considers Bush the 2005 Heisman winner. He repeated that Wednesday and begged reporters to quit asking about the Heisman. 
“Why would I want it?” he asked. 
Young got his say on the field in the BCS national champi­onship about a month after Bush accepted that Heisman in New York, leading Texas to the title by running for 200 yards and throwing for 267 yards. He scored two touchdowns in the final 4:03 and was named the MVP. Young even struck the Heisman pose cradling the crystal football given to the Longhorns as BCS champions. 
Titans tight end Bo Scaife, who played with Young at Texas, said they all know the quarterback was disappointed he didn’t win the Heisman in 2005. 
“He took that out in the national championship,” Scaife said. 
Young said Monday on ESPN’s SportsCenter that he wanted the Heisman. Asked about that comment Wednesday, Young said that was a joke taken the wrong way. 
“I’m worried about the Pittsburgh Steelers right now. I really don’t even want to answer no questions about no Heisman Trophy if y’all can please help me out with it,” Young said. 
Teammate Chris Johnson understands Young not want­ing the Heisman. 
“At the end of the day, every­body’s still going to know that he won the Heisman that year even though he doesn’t have it in his possession, he’s still the Heisman winner for that year,” Johnson said. 
Young has plenty to console himself as he looks back. 
Besides that national title, Young was the first quarter­back drafted — at No. 3 over­all — in April 2006. He won the NFL Offensive Rookie of the Year award and made the first of two Pro Bowl appear­ances. Only the late Steve McNair, George Blanda and Warren Moon have gone to more for this franchise. 
Sure, Bush now has a Super Bowl ring with the Saints, and that’s something Young wants for himself and his teammates in Tennessee (1-0). 
It’s why he’s focused on Pittsburgh. Young watched from the sideline the past two seasons as the Titans beat the Steelers in December 2008 during their 13-3 season, after losing his starting job to Kerry Collins, and was the backup in the 13-10 overtime loss in Pittsburgh to open last season. 
“He’s not worried about the Heisman,” Scaife said. “He’s worried about beating Pittsburgh. This is his first time playing Pittsburgh so he’s a little more excited than usual. He definitely wants to be 2-0 at the end of this week along with everyone else in this locker room.” 
Young is playing pretty well these days, too. 
He is 9-2 since getting his starting job back last season and is the NFL’s top-rated passer after the opening week with a 142.8 rating. He was 13 of 17 for 154 yards and two touchdowns, and he also ran seven times for 30 yards more. 
The 38-13 win over Oakland improved Young to 27-13 as a starter in his career, the sev­enth-best winning percentage among all active quarterbacks. 
Titans coach Jeff Fisher said any first start against the Steelers’ defense is challeng­ing for any quarterback. 
“He’s got a big week ahead of him and he’s off to a good start today. This is a team that literally controls the line of scrimmage on both sides of the ball, and then confuses the most experienced of quarter­backs,” Fisher said. 

Young said his confidence is high, but he wants to see how he matches up against Pittsburgh’s defense. 
“It’s never the same when you’re out there when bullets are flying around and things like that,” Young said. 
NFL 


Jackson ready to assume starting role for injured Grant 
and now it’s an emergency,” (halfback) position of our had a chance to watch him today. myself, who have played with 
Associated Press 
Kuhn said. “We need to go out offense.” Very explosive, instinctive, defi-him, I think that can only help 

GREEN BAY, Wis. — Brandon and perform.” Backup plans aside, Jackson is nitely has a very strong, quick him feel comfortable and see a lot Jackson doesn’t have an estab-Going into Sunday’s home confident he can carry the load. A lower half. Everything we saw on of production,” Rodgers said. lished track record of consistent opener against Buffalo, some second-round pick out of film was validated today. He is a But Packers general manager production like the player he’s might see a team with Super Nebraska in 2007, Jackson has young player and I think he will Ted Thompson isn’t known for replacing. Still, the Green Bay Bowl aspirations suddenly being become an effective third-down be a good fit for us.” making splashy moves out of des-Packers are confident he can one injury away from having a back. And there has been speculation peration and doesn’t like to part carry the load in the wake of fullback as their No. 1 running “They’ve always been telling that it might make sense for the with future draft picks. So for Ryan Grant’s season-ending back — especially after Jackson me you’re one play away, and Packers to trade for a running now, it’s Jackson, Kuhn and ankle injury. has missed time with injuries in just be ready,” Jackson said. back — including a potential Nance. 
And if Jackson can’t stay each of the past three season. “Obviously I’ve been doing that move for a player they’ll face Grant was not present when healthy, things really get dicey. Packers coach Mike McCarthy for three years now, a long time Sunday, the Bills’ Marshawn the team’s locker room was open 
The Packers kept only two true considers Kuhn more than just a coming. And it’s here, and I’m Lynch. to reporters Wednesday. On his halfbacks, Grant and Jackson, on fullback. McCarthy says Kuhn, taking advantage of it.” Packers quarterback Aaron Twitter account, Grant said he their 53-man roster coming out who was a record-setting rusher The Packers did add depth this Rodgers, who played with Lynch felt like he had a chance of of training camp. With Grant at Division II Shippensburg week, signing relative unknown at Cal in college, would be all for returning later in the season but gone, Jackson’s main backup and University, has plenty of experi-Dimitri Nance off the Atlanta it. Asked what he would say if the understood that the Packers the Packers’ primary third-down ence in the Packers’ one-back Falcons’ practice squad. Nance, Packers’ front office asked him needed the roster spot. option for the time being is John offensive sets. who went undrafted out of about Lynch, Rodgers responded, “You can sit here and say he Kuhn — a fullback who has “The one-back position carries Arizona State, describes himself “bring him on.” would have been ready for the shown enough ability with the fullback and halfback responsibil-as an inside runner with an abili-“I think when you give a guy a playoffs based on someone else ball in his hands to become an ities, and we’re prepared to go ty to break tackles and catch change of scenery, and a guy like that went through it in the past,” insurance policy. forward,” McCarthy said. “So I passes. that who might feel like he has McCarthy said. “You look at past 
“It’s one of those things where don’t look at us as one play away “He is actually someone that something to prove, and sur-injuries, but it’s all about the indi­you work on it in the preseason from being locked into playing we were looking at through train-round him with two guys, (line-vidual. It’s about the doctor’s as an emergency-type situation, with a different position at the ing camp,” McCarthy said. “I just backer Desmond) Bishop and opinion of the specific injury.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about too frightened to move? For Brandon That's why I'll magnify a hole has been sexually assaulted, we i think of all people you got a bullet When sanskrit was my motherFOR RENT PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit in your brain when it was nothing tongue When light years came 
Notre Dame's website: but a piece of puddy Scarabs filled my pillow And light years passed Apartments for Rent Near Airport, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? http://csap.nd.edu. Tarmac strips to pave for them on Busline 1 Bdr. $600 and 2 Bdr. Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— though try as you may but you will Thrones from which to teach Tugging on the brink $725 All Util. Included Call Mike many resources in place to assist For Patrick: always be a tourist And in that pulse the future said Spoils reported missing 574-250-0191 you. Story had been spun ——————————————— is there a human alive aint looked and half the time i open my mouth Wet your bed so sleep in it Put down in its sleep LakesideCozy furnished 3 bedroom If you or someone you love needs themself in the face without winking to speak Cards can't make a house cottage 30 minutes from South confidential support or assistance, or saying what they mean without it's to repeat something that i heard Strangled in the background Bend. Tranquil beach community. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 drinking without leaving something on tv Up that hill go the last of my crumbs Fitted for a mask One bath, fireplace, washer / dryer, or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more without thinking what if somebody and im destroying everything that We'll be lucky if we eat tonight full kitchen. Security deposit/ refer-information, visit ND's website at: doesnt approve? wouldnt make me more like bruce And up that hill go the last of my The future won't believe you ences requested.708-205-4547 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. is there a song this earth that isn't springsteen crumbs Past the ransom fast ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Thursday, September 16, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NFL 

All-Pro safety to undergo surgery 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Last week, Colts safety Bob Sanders said he was as healthy as he’s ever been. 
Now, he’s going to be out of action indefinitely. 
The 2007 NFL defensive player of the year had surgery Wednesday to repair a torn biceps muscle in his right arm, an injury that could end his season again. Team offi­cials are not yet saying how much time Sanders could miss. 
“I don’t know, and I don’t want to say anything until I have all the information,” coach Jim Caldwell said before the Colts’ practiced Wednesday. 
A couple of hours later, the Colts (0-1) announced the sur­gery. 
Sanders was hurt Sunday when he landed awkwardly on his shoulder during Houston’s first offensive series. 
He did light work during a non-contact practice Monday before having an MRI, then met with Dr. James Andrews in Alabama to get a second opinion Wednesday morning. Apparently, Andrews deter­mined the two -time Pro Bowler needed surgery. 
For Sanders, it’s the latest addition to his long list of injuries. 
Just 10 months ago, Sanders went on season-ending injured reserve with a torn biceps in the left arm. And since win­ning the league’s top defensive honor and signing a $37.5 mil­lion contract after the 2007 season, Sanders has played in just nine games. He’s actually missed more games (49) than he’s played in (48) during his seven-year career. 
Teammates are preparing for the worst. 
“He’s a family member and we’d love to have him out there,” Pro Bowl defensive end Dwight Freeney said. “But life goes on, the game goes on. Unfortunately, we’ve played a lot of games without him, and I feel bad for him personally.” 
If there is any good news for Sanders, it’s this: Indy is keep­ing him on the 53-man active roster, for now. 
The team’s release said it would “monitor” Sanders’ rehabilitation before making any additional decision. 
“There’s definitely several different routes that he can go,” team owner Jim Irsay said Tuesday. “But it’s way too early to say that he’s definitely done for the season.” 



page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, September 16, 2010 
NFL 

NBA coach Karl inspires Broncos 

Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — Denver Nuggets coach George Karl was Denver Broncos coach Josh McDaniels’ special guest Wednesday. 
Both men were jokingly asked if Karl was at Dove Valley to seek advice on how to handle a superstar who wants out of town. The Nuggets are trying to persuade All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony to sign an extension. 
McDaniels, who has sent Pro Bowl players Jay Cutler and Brandon Marshall packing in his short time in Denver, feigned ignorance on the matter. 
Karl said he didn’t know how to answer the question, either, but added: “Fortunately, it’s not my expertise or my realm of responsibility. My realm is to try to convince Melo to stay. And I’ll continue to do that when I have those opportunities.” 
McDaniels invited Karl to spend the day with him and his staff, and Karl brought along an assistant that helps prepare scouting reports to pick up tips from the Broncos. Karl sat in on team meetings, watched practice and also planned to address the team. 
Karl, a two-time cancer sur­vivor, just came off a week’s vacation as he prepares to return to coaching full-time after fighting throat-and-neck cancer in the spring. 
“I’m a big fan of his and what he’s done in his career,” McDaniels said. “He’s overcome a great deal of adversity ... It’s just a great privilege for our team to have him around us. He’s been in the meetings, he’ll be at practice, just sharing his experiences and I’m trying to pick his brain in terms of just dealing with this level of coach­ing and whether it be the NBA or the NFL. 
“They’re just paying attention to some of the things that we do to try to get our team ready to go and like I said, it’s kind of a full circle because I’m going to pick their brains and see if there’s anything that we can do better that they know,” McDaniels said. 
That didn’t include any advice on how to handle Anthony, who’s been the subject of trade rumors all summer as a three-year, $65 million extension sits on the table without his signature. 
Anthony has said he’s just tak­ing his time making a decision, but fearful fans point to him put­ting his Denver-area mansion up for sale amid reports he’d like to take his game to the Big Apple, where he and TV personality LaLa Vazquez were married over the summer. 


TENNIS 
Federer to take tournament off 
Associated Press 
BASEL, Switzerland — Roger Federer will skip Switzerland’s Davis Cup match in Kazakhstan this weekend to stay fresh for the rest of the season. 
“I need some extra time to relax after the intense weeks in North America so I can finish the year strong,” Federer said Wednesday on his official website. 
Federer reached the U.S. Open semifinals — losing in five sets to Novak Djokovic last Saturday — won the Cincinnati Masters, and lost in the Toronto Masters final. 
Federer is next scheduled to play at the Shanghai Masters starting Oct. 10, then return to Europe for the indoor hardcourt season. 


Thursday, September 16, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Sciacca 
continued from page 16 
the NCAA tournament paired with some of her own, she hopes this year is it. 
“I think that if we keep play­ing the way we are playing, and working hard day in and day out, we will undoubtedly be able to attain these goals,” Sciacca said. 
“Individually, I want to finish my career as strongly as possi­ble. I want to go out with a bang. I have set personal experience she's had the pre­vious three years is paying huge dividends for us,” Brown said. “We will look to her to continue to carry a big load offensively as well as lead us in blocking.” 
The 2008 season entered Sciacca into the Irish record books as her .337 career hit­ting percentage ranked second in school history. 
During the 2009 season, Sciacca’s third year on the team, her already notable skills began to really stand out. She moved her career hit­

“We will look for 
stati sti cal blocking goals [Sciacca] to continue and hitting 
to carry a big load
percentage 

offensively as well as
goals for myself that lead us in blocking” nobody really knows about, 
Debbie Brown
and if I can 

Irish coach
achieve these 
goals I know I will be helping my team out tremendously.” 
And it certainly looks as if both the Irish (7-2) and Sciacca are on their way. Recently competing in Denver’s Pioneer Invite over the past weekend, Notre Dame swept all three of its matches for the first time since 2005. Sciacca played a large role in the Irish victory to move her individual statistics up to 117 kills and 42 blocks. 
Sciacca’s notable statistics have not come without signifi­cant hard work and improve­ment. 
“Certainly, she has become a smarter and better player with each season and the game ting percentage up to .343, still second-best, while going .359 for the season. Her hit­ting put her as the sixth best single-season all-time percentage for Notre Dame and as 31st nationally. Making up her impressive hitting 
percentage were 223 kills and 90 blocks, the fourth and sec­ond best team totals, respec­tively. And it’s all coming from a girl whose height started it all. 
“I started playing volleyball in eighth grade just because I was tall,” the 6-foot-1 Sciacca said. 
With her height and a killer arm, she began to have an unmistakable love for the sport that she dreamed would bring her to Notre Dame, even if it meant hours from her Colorado home. 
“When I started getting recruited, Notre Dame was always in the back of my mind because I have been a fan ever since I was little,” she said. “After I took my unofficial visit to Notre Dame, I knew it was the right place for me and I committed shortly after and I haven't looked back since.” 
Although playing on a varsity team has defined her college experience, Sciacca feels that it has only proved that coming to Notre Dame was the right decision. 
“Playing on the Notre Dame volleyball team has shaped my college experience in a very positive way,” Sciacca said. “[B]eing able to use my talents to represent the university is 
[a] really rewarding experi­ence. Also, the relationships that I have built with my team­mates other the years are unlike any other relationships I have otherwise established here at Notre Dame.” 
But numbers aren’t all that Sciacca hopes to leave behind at Notre Dame. 
“I want to instill in the fresh­men and underclassmen a good sense of what it means to work hard, be successful, and be a good teammate,” Sciacca said. “I also want to finish high in the record books as far as my career hitting percentage goes. The statistical records are nice, but I would rather be remembered as a great team­mate and as a person with a great work ethic that just loves to play.” 
Sciacca and the Irish will be hosting the Notre Dame Invitational this weekend at the Purcell Pavilion, featuring Delaware, Santa Clara and Dayton. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Calvin defeats Belles in three sets 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s gave MIAA rival Calvin a run for their money, but the Knights ulti­mately proved to be too much for the Belles. 
The No. 4 Knights won 3­0 (25-20, 25-18, 25-18) en route to another conference win and continue to be a thorn in the Belles’ side, having beaten Saint Mary’s three times last season as well. The loss drops Saint Mary’s to 2-6 (1-2 MIAA). 
While Calvin swept the match, Saint Mary’s fought to hold strong against the experienced Knight ’s offense. While it may not have resulted in a victory, the Belles have much to take from the loss. 
After an impressive 3-0 win over Albion to start the season, Wednesday’s loss is the Belles’ second consecu­tive conference defeat. Despite losing all three sets, the Belles appeared kept up a high level of com­petition in each one. In the third set, Saint Mary’s led 14-9, forcing the Knights to call a timeout and regroup. Calvin answered by win ­ning 16 of the next 20 points to claim the match. 
Saint Mary’s managed to pick up seven blocks on the night to Calvin’s four. 
Sophomore Autumn Nelson led the Belles ’ attack with seven kills. Belles sophomore Stephanie Bodien added in five and freshman team ­mate Christi Wyble had four. 
Saint Mary ’s freshman Hailee Leitz notched a team-high 18 assists on the night. Wyble added two solo blocks for the Belles, as well as two block assists. 
Junior Danie Brink added six assists and one dig on the night. 
The Belles return to the court this weekend when they travel to Manchester College Invitational on Saturday and Sunday. Their 
opponents include Anderson, Purdue North Central, Principia and Grace. The tournament will mark the end of non-con­ference play for the Belles before picking up MIAA play again next week when they host Kalamazoo. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 16, 2010 
Rees 
continued from page 16 
right again, and hopefully correct the bad as well so there is more right than wrong.” 
Whenever “next time ” comes, Montana can expect to only handle a portion of the playbook, Irish coach Brian Kelly said. After the 28 -24 loss Saturday, Kelly said the blame for the back­ups ’ poor performance belonged on his shoulders for not preparing them prop­erly. 
“I just have to do a better job getting them ready, ” Kelly said. “Maybe [I could have] created a package that was just for them and had that been the case, maybe they could have managed the game a little bit better.” 
In his Tuesday press con­ference, Kelly said that package was becoming a reality already, in prepara­tion for any unforeseen cir­cumstances that may arise during this weekend’s game at Michigan State. 
Elmhurst 
continued from page 16 
the team’s rough start, put in a solid performance dur­ing her time in goal. 
Walsh, along with the Saint Mary’s defense, was able to ward off Elmhurst for the majority of the first half until the Blue Jays finally broke through in the 39th minute. Additional goals in the 59th and 80th minute sealed the match for Elmhurst. 
The Belles also put a few nice shots on net, but were unable to capitalize. Freshman Mollie Valencia had a pair of looks while her classmate Kaitlin Teichman and sophomore Maddie Meckes each added a shot apiece. 
The Belles, who still have three remaining games before beginning conference play, will look to register 
t h e i r  f i r s t  w i n  a t  h o m e  
a g a i n s t  I l l i n o i s  Te c h  o n  
Friday.  

Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
Frilling 
continued from page 16 
court with you. In singles, it is you against your oppo ­nent, ” Mathews said. “I really enjoy both, but for different reasons.” 
Frilling agreed, sharing the love for both aspects of the game. 
“Singles and doubles are both completely different games and it’s fun to adjust your game to each, ” she said. 
The Irish will begin their fall schedule Oct. 3 in Pacific Palisades, Calif. for the All -American Pre Qualifying Tournament. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
this weekend if we have to go them when they go in the game.” “They’re competitive 
But Montana kids. They want to and Rees agree 
learn. They want to 
— their success depends on get better.” more than a limited pack ­
Brian Kelly 
age. 
Irish coach
“It was good experience going in there and getting a tice in an entirely differ­ent light than he did before. 
“I definitely feel a little bit more comfort ­able in prac ­tice,” he said. “It is a little slower now that I have seen the game speed … Now that I have a taste, I know 

“We’re going to settle on a package that suits both of them. I think we have to have something that really allows both of those guys to feel comfortable out there and still run our offense in a productive manner,” he said. “We focused a lot on that in our preparation and in our meetings. I’m certain we’ll be in a much better place 
Working hard in practice would not have inherently prepared either of them for what they faced Saturday, Montana said. 
“There is nothing like a live game, especially against Michigan at home,” he said. “I don’t know if you’ll get a bigger rush anywhere else.” 
After that baptism by fire, Montana said he sees prac­
couple of reps,” said Rees, who enrolled in January to participate in spring prac­tice with the team. “Now that’s behind me, I need to look forward and keep work­ing hard every day in prac­tice.” 
exactly how much more time I need to spend in the film room, mentally preparing for practice as well.” 
Kelly emphasized the importance of practice for the two backup quarter ­backs, both before, and even more so after, Saturday ’s game. 
“They’re competitive kids. They want to learn. They want to get better, ” Kelly said. “I think they’ll under­stand that practice for them is absolutely crucial, staying locked in all the time.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 16, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 
THE MATING RITUAL 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Thursday. September 16, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Backup plan 

Struggles against Michigan prompt Kelly to focus on backup quarterbacks Rees, Montana 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

Sports Editor  
When freshman quarter- 
back Tommy Rees took the  
field to begin Notre Dame’s  
second possession Saturday,  
h i s a p p e a r a n c e s u r p r i s e d  
many Irish fans.  
Two possessions later, jun­ 
ior Nate Montana replaced  
Rees, and confusion reigned  
among Notre Dame fans.  
In due time, they learned  
starting quarterback Dayne  
Cr i s t h a d s u f f e r e d a h e a d  
i n j u r y, b u t t h e y s t i l l h a d  
q u e s t i o n s a b o u t R e e s a n d  
Montana. Rees only attempt­ 
ed two passes, completing  
one to a Michigan defender,  
w h i l e M o n t a n a c o m p l e t e d  
eight of his 17 attempts for  
1 0 4 y a r d s , a l o n g w i t h a n  
interception and one costly  
overthrow.  
“There were things I did  
right, and there were things  
I did wrong,” said Montana,  
a f o r m e r w a l k -o n . “ I ’ m  
learning from both, so that  
next time I’ll probably do it  WU YUE/The Observer  
Nate Montana carries the ball in Notre Dame’s Sept. 11 game against Michigan. Montana entered  
see REES/page 14  the game after Dayne Crist exited with an eye injury. Montana was 8-for-17 with one interception.  

SMC SOCCER 
Belles fail to score in road loss 
By BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
The Belles fell to Elmhurst 3-0 Wednesday, and are still looking for an answer to what has been a slow start to their season. 
Despite solid defensive play throughout the first six matches, Saint Mary’s has continually found itself on the wrong end of things, from strange bounces to brief miscommunications and everything in between. The Belles (0-6) have scored only two goals this season, while giving up a confer ­ence-high 25 goals against. 
Belles coach Michael Joyce shook up the lineup in the Belles’ most recent loss, hoping that some change might provide the squad with a little boost. Sophomore Caitlin Walsh took over in goal for junior Kristen Nelson, who, despite 
see ELMHURST/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Frilling receives high ranking in singles poll 
Junior to compete in All-American event 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews ranked in the preseason Campbell/ITA Rankings, both individually in singles and as a doubles pair. 
Frilling was also selected to compete in the Riviera/ITA All -American Championship. 
Both Frilling and Mathews have previously been ranked in the singles preseason polls, where Frilling now stands in eighth and Mathews at 42nd. 
“This is my first time being ranked in the top 10 in singles. I’m excited for the fall tournaments and hope to improve my rank­ing,” Frilling said. 
Last season, the doubles matches that the duo played together were enough to earn them the preseason ranking of tenth for the upcoming season. 
“I really enjoyed playing with Kristy,” Mathews said. “My doubles game will only improve playing alongside her. We look forward to competing against the top players in the nation.” 
Entering the season already ranked brings mixed reviews from the pair regardless of having been in this situation before. 
“It definitely puts a bit more pressure on, but I’m really excited to play this fall and keep up with my rankings,” Frilling said. 
Rather than feeling pres­sured, Mathews said she is excited for the ranking. 
“It is a great feeling going into a match, tournament or season knowing that we are expected to do well, ” she said. 
For now, Frilling and Mathews’ said their agendas consist of fall tournaments to stay in shape and on top 
of their game before the intensity of the spring arrives. In the past two years, the Irish team has advanced to the NCAA Final Four, where both Frilling and Mathews hope to find themselves again this sea­son. 
The two are set to play as a doubles pair again this season, but that may change as time progresses. Both players said they enjoy the atmosphere doubles brings. 
“With doubles, you have a partner out there on the 
see FRILLING/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL 
Sciacca focused on record 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Swinging her way into the Irish record books as the sec­ond best career hitter isn’t enough for Kellie Sciacca. She wants to be the first name in the list. In fact, being the best is the driving force behind all she does, for herself and for her teammates. 
“Winning motivates me,” the senior said. “Being the best motivates me. Off the court too, being the best I can possibly be is what motivates me to work hard.” 
Sciacca’s hard work can be seen in the impressive num­bers she has posted in her Notre Dame career and in her coach’s observations, espe­cially in her performances this season. 
“Kellie has had a terrific start to the season,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “She has been our ‘go to’ player on offense and her blocking is the best it's ever been.” 
Sciacca has definitely shown her strongest playing in her senior season. She is working to make sure that this year is the time both she and her team come out on top. With clearly defined team goals of once again winning the Big East and advancing in 
see SCIACCA/page 13 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 17, 2010 
COMMENTARY 

Notre Dame could beontherighttrack 
I try to avoid comparing Brian Kelly to Charlie Weis, and I’d rather not reference “last year” after every win, loss, practice or press confer­ence. 
But the fact is, the Irish are 1-1 and coming off a heart­breaking loss to Michigan — just as they were a year ago — which, as hard as we may try, makes it dif­ficult to ignore the parallels to last sea­son. 
Your individual degree of optimism or pessimism will dictate how you view Notre Dame’s first two performanc­es under Kelly. If your glass is half full, you might argue that 


Two weeks into a
tackling has Kelly’s com-improved, the season that began just ments in light offensive line of Saturday’s 
as the last, it’s far too 
looks loss, I can’t 
early to pass judgment 
stronger and help but feel with a on where this team is like this team healthy Dayne is much more 
going. But if the vibe 
Crist under equipped to 
Kelly gives off is any 
center, the turn a tough Irish would indication, I’d have to defeat into a be 2-0. If say the Irish aren’t speed bump, 
your glass is not a road-
done yet. 
half empty, block. 
season, and I was on the sideline for the Wolverines’ game-winning score. When Weis walked to the podium for his postgame press con­ference, I didn’t want to lis­ten — I could barely even look up, I was so disgusted by what I had witnessed moments prior. As we all know, we saw similar moments throughout last season, when every Irish loss seemed to come down to the final possession. After each of those losses, Weis deliv­ered the same kind of mes­sage: he felt bad for his play­ers and was proud of them for fighting until the end, but he was disappointed they couldn’t make one last play to secure a win. 
I’m not trying to blast Weis here, as I can surely under­stand those sentiments and appreciate how difficult it is to stomach a series of gut-
wrenching 
losses. But 
after hearing 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Atkinsons, Tuitt commit to Irish 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame may have lost to Michigan Saturday, but the Irish still impressed three of the four visiting recruits well enough that they com­mitted to Notre Dame within the week. Two even offered their com­mitments before leaving campus over the weekend. 
George and Josh Atkinson gave Irish coach Brian Kelly their verbal commitments Sunday, followed by defensive end Stephon Tuitt Wednesday night, and in doing so strengthened Notre Dame’s already stellar recruiting class, Irish recruit­ing expert Mike Frank said. 
“In landing the two quality caliber of players in George and Josh, that is the kind of player you are looking for,” said Frank, who heads the online ESPN affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “Notre Dame needed some of those guys who can just make things happen in space, and [George] is certainly one of those guys.” 
Also visiting last weekend, both safety Wayne Lyons and defensive end Stephon Tuitt were impressed by Notre Dame and their experi­ence during the weekend, Frank said. Tuitt has since committed to the Irish, calling Brian Kelly with his decision late Wednesday night. 
“If I had to guess, I’d say Notre Dame probably leads for [Lyons] right now,” Frank said. “More importantly, I think both of their moms are very excited about Notre Dame, and that really is one of the bigger battles you have to face.” 
Tuitt, ranked as the top strongside defensive end in the country by Yahoo! Sports’ rivals.com, joins Aaron Lynch — No. 7 on the rivals.com list — in strengthening an Irish defensive line that has lacked depth in recent years. 
The commitments bring the tally for the 2011 recruiting class to 19 commitments. Frank does not expect Notre Dame to take many more, even if National Signing Day is still five months away. 
“It’ll be interesting to see how many more they’ll take after this point,” Frank said. “My guess is they probably won’t go for more than 22 [commitments] at this point.” 
Among the candidates for those final four spots, along with Lyons, is receiver Davaris Daniels, from Vernon Hills, Ill., a Chicago suburb. Daniels has expressed interest in Notre Dame for awhile, but he may still have work to do academically, Frank said. 
“Based off of things that I hear, I think [Daniels] is just a little bit short of where he needs to be academi­cally,” Frank said. “If that is the case, I think he could get it and get where he needs to be, and if he does, I really think Notre Dame will get him.” 
Daniels would fill one of Notre Dame’s few holes in this class. 
“[Notre Dame] would probably like to get another wide receiver, a safety, either a defensive end or an outside linebacker and then an offensive tackle if they could get one,” Frank said. 
Among the additional possible targets, Frank listed outside line­backers Ishaq Williams, Ray Drew and Christian French, running back Savon Huggins and offensive line­men Antonio Richardson and Jay Whitmire. 
“I would guess anybody on that list, if they wanted to commit, Notre Dame would probably take their commitment at this point,” Frank said. “This is certainly a top-10 class in anybody’s eyes right now, and they have a good chance to close out with some really strong players.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

you’ll say that “improved” tackling allowed an opposing quarterback more than 500 yards of offense, the line couldn’t spring the run game when Notre Dame needed it most, and that whether Crist is healthy or not, there should be a quarterback capable of running the offense. 
I’ve been staring at my proverbial glass all week, and I’m still not sure how I feel, so I won’t argue for either view. The truth is, we won’t know how this Irish team is different from the last until they step onto the field in East Lansing on Saturday night. 
There’s no doubt the Michigan loss stung, espe­cially because of how eerily similar it was to last year’s shocking finish at the Big House. So while I’m hesitant to say the Irish will recover this season as they were largely unable to a year ago, I must admit I have a com­pletely different feeling fol­lowing Notre Dame’s first loss this season. 
I traveled to Ann Arbor to cover the Michigan game last “It’s not 
good enough to [say], ‘Well, Notre Dame plays hard for four quarters.’ You have to play hard, and you have to win,” Kelly said. “There won’t be any more smiley faces around here until we win.” 
Not exactly a revolutionary statement, but when was the last time we heard that point made so bluntly? Perhaps more importantly, when was the last time you heard peo­ple commend teams like Alabama, Texas and Ohio State for “playing hard?” Shouldn’t that be a given? Isn’t it? 
It appears that now, at Notre Dame, it is. 
Two weeks into a season that began just as the last, it’s far too early to pass judg­ment on where this team is going. But if the vibe Kelly gives off is any indication, I’d have to say the Irish aren’t done yet. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Friday, September 17, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Now’s the time 

Senior running back Armando Allen is working hard to get the most out of his final season 
“The way college football is Racking up yardage 
By LAURA MYERS 
set up we can’t have contact Through two games, Allen 
Sports Writer 
with him all summer long, so has had a heavy workload. He you have a two-month period has run the ball 33 times for 

“You got my hat!” Armando where you don’t even talk to 182 yards and a touchdown, Allen exclaimed as he entered him much,” running backs has caught two passes for nine the Loftus Center for a photo coach Tim Hinton said. “It yards and has returned two shoot with The Observer takes a little bit to bring out punts for 47 yards. Tuesday. The senior running the real personalities when Allen has shown the same back grabbed the small green you just don’t know each other versatility throughout his hat and placed it, at a slight very well.” career. With 104 career recep­angle, on his head, ready for Especially with sophomore tions, he is just four receptions his close-up. Cierre Wood coming up quickly away from eclipsing Darius 
Allen donned the leprechaun behind him, Allen had to prove Walker’s record of 107 career hat in celebration after Notre himself all over again. receptions by a running back. Dame’s win in the Hawaii Bowl “It was just practicing hard Ninth on Notre Dame’s career on Dec. 26, 2008, and turned it every day,” Allen said. “That list with 3,638 all-purpose into a post-game ritual in was one of the concerns we yards, a measure that includes 2009. had, and I just took it under running, receiving and return 
“We all laughed, since he’s my initiative to go out there yardage, Allen needs 312 about 5’5” on a good day,” said and work hard and give it all I yards to take over fifth place s o p h o m o r e had every day from 1989 All-American wide receiver in practice.” Raghib “Rocket” Ismail, and Theo Riddick, The competi-1,139 yards to take fourth 
“I know that I owe Notre 
a former part tion only from 1987 Heisman winner of the running Dame so much, for helped both of Tim Brown. back corps allowing me to come them, Allen “I think it’s really just being with Allen, said. in the right place at the right 
here and take part in
who is actually “ T h a t ’ s time,” Allen said. “Gaining that listed at 5-something special, so I always posi-trust from the coaches.” foot-10. “He’d really want to go out on tive,” Allen Hinton said there’s only one get us all said. “When way for Notre Dame to take 
a good note.” 
laughing and you look at our advantage of Allen’s many cracking up. It group, from abilities. was a good Armando Allen me to Cierre to “Keep giving him the ball,” joke.” senior running back Robert Hughes Hinton said. “That would be 
But two to Jonas Gray, the best thing we can do is games into his we all know keep giving him the ball, get senior year, Allen isn’t kidding that we have a great amount of him in space as much as we around anymore. talent and we all push each can. He’s been an elusive guy. 
“Some people joke about me other. We use it as motivation. He’s been making guys miss. being short, the size of a lep-We all know we’ve got great We’re certainly going to work rechaun,” he said. “But I do it backs here.” very, very hard to get as many in respect to Notre Dame. But through his work ethic, touches as he can have. And That’s my way to say I respect the coaches got to know Allen his job is to hang onto the ball Notre Dame. I tip my hat to it.” and made the decision to keep and perform every time he gets 
him in the starting spot. that opportunity. Going to work “He really does a good job of “I think he will.” 
That is not to say that Allen understanding and learning, Allen would like to get anoth­hasn’t been taking his role at taking notes in the meeting er opportunity like the one he breakaway run. Though he His early struggles to prove Notre Dame seriously up to room, and understanding the had in Notre Dame’s 2009 win runs for a dependable average himself made the role even now. He was the leading rush-game plan when he gets on the over Michigan State, when he of 4.6 yards per carry, his more special, Allen said. er for Notre Dame in 2008 and field,” Hinton said. “And he’s took the snap in the wildcat career long is 29 yards, a mark “I’m a more lead by example 2009, with 585 and 697 yards, practiced hard. The young guy formation and connected with he set Saturday against type guy,” he said. “I started respectively. His mark of 697 has practiced tremendously former Irish receiver Robby Michigan. off shaky coming in with the last season came in just eight hard. Parris for a five-yard touch-“It’s always good to have a new coaches but right now I games, as he missed two “He really has played the down pass. great breakaway run,” he said. understand that I’m here to do games with a sprained ankle game with a passion and phys-“I wouldn’t mind,” he said. “I think growing up, being a whatever I can and just lead by and another two with a frac-icality and he’s done a nice job “That’s definitely something senior, you take everything for example.” ture in his hand. in practice of doing the same that’s always been in the back what it’s worth, but it always Hinton assessed Allen’s lead-
But Irish head coach Brian thing,” Hinton said. “He’s a of my head. I’d like to get a felt good.” ership in the same way. Kelly admitted last week that very consistent performer. He chance to do it.” That 2010 is his last time “Leadership comes in many he wasn’t sold on Allen coming brings his lunch pail with him In fact, Allen has just one through adds a sense of styles,” Hinton said. “His work into the season. every day and goes to work.” feat left to accomplish: a long, urgency to his season. ethic and his on-the-field 
“I do feel like I’m running toughness have been the things out of time,” Allen said. “I he’s really displayed.” know that I owe Notre Dame Being a leader is even more so much, for allowing me to vital this week, Allen said, as come here and take part in the team tries to shake off a something special, so I really heartbreaking loss and move want to go out on a good note.” on to its first road game. 
“I think it’s very, very impor-Leading by example tant,” Allen said. “The biggest 
Allen’s seniority has its thing is just to go out there and upside, though, in an increased make sure that everybody has leadership role on the team. forgotten about last week and The coaches selected him to be is moving on to this week, that a captain for Saturday’s game we’ve got a new challenge in against Michigan. front of us.” 
“It was a great honor to go At this point, Allen is serious out there and be a captain and about continuing in the same lead this team against way he has started the season, Michigan,” Allen said. “It says being an example for his team-a lot about what I’ve been mates with hard work in prac­doing here and to me it was a tice and performance when it great honor to go out there counts. and show that I can do this “We’ve been very pleased and I can be in the right place with what he’s doing,” Hinton for my teammates.” said. “Obviously his challenge 
Despite his penchant for right now is to do it consistent-wearing leprechaun hats, Allen ly for the next ten weeks. That is usually not showy, Hinton right now is the biggest chal­said. lenge that Armando has ahead 
“He’s a quiet, unassuming of him. He can’t be self-satis­personality,” Hinton said. fied. He’s got to be hungry to “Some guys are real flashy, be better tomorrow, the next with flamboyant personalities. day and the next day until the Armando really doesn’t come season ends.” across that way. He’s quiet with leadership behind the Contact Laura Myers at scenes.” lmyers2@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 17, 2010 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD T
Record: 1-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 
Irish Offense vs. Spartans Defense

Notre Dame 



career record: 
172-58-2 
record at ND: 
1-1 
against MSU: 
0-0 





Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 

Big wheels keep on turning, and despite a loss to Michigan, so will Notre Dame’s season. 
Presuming Dayne Crist is healthy, and all indications say he is, the Irish shouldn’t have a problem scoring on the Spartans. Michigan State will limit Notre Dame’s ability to run the ball, but Brian Kelly hasn’t relied on the ground game yet, and there is no reason for him to in East Lansing. 
Kirk Cousins will cause the Irish secondary a few problems, but in the end, the Notre Dame defense will rise to the occasion and show its doubters what it really can do. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24, Michigan State 20 

Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 
It doesn't get any easier for the Irish, who could use a fast start on the road against a Spartans program that always gives Notre Dame a tough game. The Irish will face a completely different offensive scheme for the third straight week, and they'll need their athletic linebackers and talented, but injury-depleted, safeties to fly to the ball and be ready to stop the power run game. Notre Dame keeps Dayne Crist upright, Michael Floyd continues to get more involved, and the Irish defense steps up late to prevent Brian Kelly from falling to 1-2. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Michigan State 20 

Eric Prister 
Associate Sports Editor 
Despite the loss, the Irish showed signs of life against Michigan that were absent for much of last season. The offense, when Dayne Crist was on the field, showed definite improv­ment, scoring on four of six posses­sions when he was in the game. The passing game looks like it’s starting to click, and that doesn’t bode well for Michigan State’s untested defense. 
Granted, the Irish gave up 502 total yards to one player last week, but that one player is exceptional, and the Notre Dame defense matches up better against a pro-style offense. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 23 


Friday, September 17, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Michigan State 
Spartans

O HEAD 
Record: 2-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Third season at Michigan State

Spartans Offense vs. Irish Defense 

career record: 
42-34 
record at MSU: 
24-17 
Mark Dantonio against ND: head coach 2-1 






MSU


OFFENSIVE
P
A
H
I
N
G
R
U
S
M
COA
CHING

We say it every week, but this 
This game will be a test of Notre game will provide the biggest test for 
Dame's mental strength and Brian Brian Kelly and the Irish thus far. In 
Kelly's motivation skills, as the team college football, there’s nothing 
has to rebound from its first disap­tougher than playing in a nationally­
pointment at a tough road environ-televised, primetime road game the 
ment. Kirk Cousins and the Spartans week after a heartbreaking loss. For 
offense have yet to score less than 30 whatever reason, though, I can’t 
points; Greg Jones and the Spartans shake the feeling that the Irish will 
defense have yet to give up more 

squeak this one out. Michigan State than 20. 
hasn’t played anyone of note yet, But the Irish should be the biggest 
while the Irish have two games challenge yet for Michigan State. It 
against quality opponents under their will be a tight game throughout, but 
belt. That should translate into an Notre Dame will prove to be a strong 
early Notre Dame lead, allowing the team and will build momentum for 
Irish to run the ball and get the win. the tough stretch of games to follow. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 20 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Michigan State 31 





Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 

Laura Myers 
Sports Writer 



page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 17, 2010 



If you could play a road game in any stadium, where would you play? 
I’d say Florida. I heard it’s pretty loud, always nice weather down there. Can’t go wrong. 
You’re from New Jersey. Do you like Jersey Shore? 
Not at all. Not a fan. 
Do you think they represent your state badly? 
You’re just looking at one person’s life. You can’t look at one person’s life and summarize New Jersey. Those are Guidos. I’m not famil­iar with those. 
Are there any reality shows you do watch? 
“The Kardashians.” Because Kim’s on there. That’s why. 
What was your favorite adventure of Kim’s? 
Hmm ... (pause) I can’t say. (pause) No com­ment. 

Jones leads strong Spartan linebacking corps 
Award (defensive player of By SAM WERNER the year) and the Lott Trophy  
Sports Writer (defensive impact player of  
the year).  
Prior to the start of the sea-While that impressive honor  
s on , Mic hig a n S ta te c oa ch roll may lead some players to  
Mark Dantonio said his line-believe that they can do it all  
b a c k e r s w o u l d b e t h e themselves, Jones is quick to  
s t r e n g t h o f t h e S p a r t a n s deflect praise to his team- 
d e f e n s e . Wi t h s e n i o r l i n e -mates.  
backer Greg Jones leading “I have guys to help me out,  
the way, it’s easy to see why. like [linebackers] Eric Gordon  
For his part, Jones said he a n d Ch r i s N o rm a n , ” J o n es  
was up to Dantonio’s task. said. “I’ll try and do what I  
“I feel that’s a pretty big can do, but ultimately, I have  
statement,” he said. “It takes t o s t e p u p i f m y n a m e i s  
a w h o l e d e f e n s e t o w i n called.”  
games, not just linebackers … D a n t o n i o s a i d h e w a s n ’t  
I’m v e ry h u m b l e d by t h at , surprised by Jones’ growth,  
being one of the leaders on both on the field and in the  
the linebacking corps, but I locker room.  
feel like we do have a lot of “Greg Jones has developed  
g uy s t h at c a n s t e p u p an d into not just a great playmak­ 
lead.” e r, b u t a l e a d e r f o r u s , ”  
Jones will undoubtedly be D a n t o n i o t o l d  
o n e o f t h o s e l e a d e r s . H e msuspartans.com. “He does  
a l r e a d y r a n k s s i x t h o n everything a hundred miles  
M i c h i g a n S t a t e ’s a l l -t i m e an hour and wins with effort.  
tackle list with W h e t h e r i t ’s  
3 7 9 , a n d h e t h e w i n t e r “It takes a wholehas racked up c o n d i t i o n i n g  
2 0 i n t w o defense to win games, p r o g r a m ,  
g a m e s s o f a r s t u d y i n g f i l m not just linebackers —t h i s s e a s o n . or practice on API’m very humbled byJones was also a s p r i n g d a y, Senior linebacker Greg Jones leads the Spartans in tackles so far this season, with 20. Jones was a  
named to the that, being one of the h e ’s g o i n g t o consensus frst-team All American last season.  
p r e s e a s o n g i v e e v e r y -leaders on the line-watch list for thing he’s got backing corps, but I feelt h e Wa l t e r — i t ’s i m p o r - y a r d s p e r g a m e o n t h e ground. The Spartan defense,  have a player of Jones’ cal­iber on defense doesn’t mean  know his number, we know where he lines up. After that,  
C a m p P l a y e r like we do have a lot of tant to him.”  led by Jones, will be tasked  the Irish will alter their game  every play that w e run we  
o f t h e Ye a r I r i s h c o a c h guys that can step upAw a r d , t h e B r i a n K e l l y and lead.” Butkus Award k n o w s h i s  with slowing down that run­ning attack. “ O b v i o u s l y, d e f e n s i v e l y  plan significantly. Offensive coordinator Charley Molnar said while the Irish will be  have somebody that’s sup-p o s e d t o b l o c k h i m . S o m e t i m e s i t ’s a c e n t e r,  
(top collegiate o f fen se h a s a  Jones, rightly so, is one of the  a w a r e o f J o ne s ’ p re s en ce ,  sometimes it’s a guard, some- 
l i n e b a c k e r ) , Greg Jones tough task fac­ best linebackers in the coun­ t h e y w i l l s t i l l r u n t h e i r  times it’s a running back, and  
the Lombardi i n g t h e c o n -Spartans linebacker Award (college s e n s u s A l l - try,” Kelly said in his press con ference Tu esday. “Ve r y  offense. “They have 10 other foot- a t t h e e n d o f t h e d a y w e expect our guys to get the job  
lineman of the A m e r i c a n .  p h y s i c a l u p f r o n t .  ball players out there also, so  done.”  
year), the Bronko Nagurski Notre Dame has shown flash- Experienced at the linebacker  we can’t just put all our focus  
Trophy (nation’s best defen­es of success rushing the ball  position.”  on Greg Jones,” Molnar said.  Contact Sam Werner at  
s i ve p l a yer ) , t h e B e dn a r i k this season, averaging 153.5  Just because the Spartans  “ We k n o w w h o h e i s , w e  swerner@nd.edu  

Friday, September 17, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Freshman Jones finding his place in Irish offense 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Before the season started, smart money would have been on either junior wide receiver Michael Floyd or junior tight end Kyle Rudolph to lead the Irish in touchdown catches after two games. 
Instead, it’s freshman wide receiv­er TJ Jones leading the way with a pair of scoring grabs. 
In fact, Jones even made some his­tory in the process, becoming the first Irish freshman receiver to score a touchdown in each of his first two collegiate games. 
“I thought with all the great receivers we’ve had here that some­one’s done it,” Jones said. “Finding out that I’m the first is a great feeling and a great motivator.” 
In his first game in an Irish uni­form, Jones caught three passes against Purdue, including a 5-yard touchdown reception to put the Irish up 20-3. Last week against Michigan, Jones grabbed three pass­es for 73 yards. His final catch of the game was a 53-yard scoring bomb on Notre Dame’s third offensive play of the second half that swung momentum back in the Irish favor. 
The freshman may have gotten a little too excited, though, as replays showed that Jones appeared to flip the ball out of his hand before he crossed the goal line. The officials didn’t notice, and Notre Dame was able to kick the extra point before the play could be reviewed. 
“All three of the coaches addressed me — [head] coach [Brian] Kelly, [offensive coordinator Charley] Molnar, [wide receivers] coach [Tony] Alford — and let me know that I got away with one,” Jones said. “But if it happens again I’m going to have some big problems and that it better not happen again.” 
While the coaches may have let him off with a warning this time, Jones said the message got home loud and clear. 
“I guess you could say they let me off, not easy, but I didn’t get as harsh a punishment as I thought I would for dropping the ball before I scored, and that’s definitely something that I’ll make sure to never do again,” he said. 
Jones also got some advice from his father, former Irish defensive lineman Andre Jones, who played for Notre Dame from 1987-91. Jones said his father told him to “just hand the ball to the ref” the next time he scored. 
Jones said that he and his father talk regularly, and that on the Thursday or Friday before the game, they talk about what he can expect from that week’s game. 
“[He tells me] kind of what to expect, since he’s been there before,” Jones said. “Kind of the atmosphere that I’m walking into and how to not psych myself in and out of the game and how to not let certain things that I’m not used to in high school affect me before the game in college.” 
Saturday will definitely be a new experience for Jones, who will be making his first collegiate appear­ance away from Notre Dame Stadium, as well as playing in his first night game at the college level. Jones said he thinks he’s up for the challenge, though. 

“Playing every game in high school at night was a great feeling,” he said. “And playing my first collegiate game at night, I’m sure it’s going to be a great feeling, a great atmos­phere.” 
Alford added that it’s all a matter of how Jones prepares himself for the new environment. 
“I don’t care if we’re playing in our stadium or anyone else’s stadium,” Alford said. “Just put your pads on and go play. I’m not real into where I play. If you like to play ball, go play in the parking lot. I don’t care.” 
While Jones has had success so far, he recognizes that this is where the hard part starts. 
“As time goes on and maybe I catch a couple more balls, teams will start to notice me more, which means I’m going to have to work that much harder to beat double coverage or find holes in the defense,” he said. 
Usually, the one aspect of the game that young wide receivers need to improve the most is their blocking ability. While Jones certain­ly has room to mature, he did issue some thunderous blocks on unsus­pecting Wolverine players last Saturday. 
“It’s a great feeling,” Jones said. “I was a defensive player as well in high school, so I like cracking people when I get the chance.” 
While Alford was impressed with Jones’ ability to provide a big hit, he issued a challenge to the freshman. 
“There were some broken plays where he was peeling back on guys, and it just goes to show that he’s got some toughness about him and he doesn’t mind throwing his body around,” Alford said. “I’d like to see him hit some guys like that when they see him coming.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENTS Friday, September 17, 2010 





