the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘Set your own path’ 

By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Editor’s note: This is the third and final installment of a three-part series about Terrance Rogers, a 1979 Notre Dame graduate who has returned as a graduate student with the goal of winning Bengal Bouts. 
Terry Rogers has taken a trip back in time, as a 1979 alumnus who is now a Notre Dame student again, and plenty has changed in 31 years. 
“In a way, it’s like I’m going back in time, carrying back with me the knowledge I’ve gained since that time,” Rogers said, 
He said some things have changed substantially since the 1970s, such as press coverage of the Bengal Bouts tournament. With more athletic events to cover, local media no longer devotes as much press to the event. 
“Then, the South Bend Tribune covered the Bengal Bouts extensively. A reporter named Barry Miller used to write us all up. He knew all our nick­names,” he said. “The town would get really into it, the football players would be boxing each other and the crowd would go wild. 
“It was the heyday of tour­nament attendance.” 
see ROGERS/page 4 




Saint Mary’s holds memorial service 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
The College held a memorial service for Bruno Schlesinger, professor at Saint Mary’s College for nearly 60 years and founder of the Humanistic Studies Department Wednesday. 
Schlesinger died earlier this month at 99. 
Judy Fean, director of Campus Ministry at the College, presided during the service. 
“We are here today to remember Bruno and extend our welcome to his family members and friends who are here today,” Fean said. “We are gathered to remember, and we give thanks to the gifts Bruno left his family and friends.” 
Gail Mandell, professor of Humanistic Studies at the College, along with Schlesinger’s son, Thomas, gave the eulogies. 
“Bruno was a man of blatant emotional complexity,” Mandell said. “He could be genial, stern, sweet, stubborn, shy, sly” 
Mandell was a colleague of Bruno, and said she enjoyed her experiences working with him at the College. 
“I was privileged to know Bruno for almost 40 years, and privileged to work side­by-side with him for over 30 
of them,” Mandell said. “That’s 20 of his seasons and every season I spent with 

see MEMORIAL/page 4 

President meets with students 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins held his first office hours of the year Wednesday, which gave students the oppor­tunity to discuss issues on cam­pus or in their personal lives with the president. 
Junior Reid Brewster met with Jenkins to discuss the death of someone in his family. 
“I definitely came out of the meeting with Fr. John feeling refined,” Brewster said. “He sort of gave me a new perspec­tive on how to deal with death and how best to move forward not only as a Catholic, but also just as a person.” 
Brewster urged students to take advantage of Jenkins’ office hours. 
“It gives you an opportunity to connect with him much more personally and get a backstage view of what kind of man he is,” Brewster said. 
Jenkins had previously sent a campus-wide e-mail inviting students to his office hours. 
“I was so surprised that the president of a university would want to, amidst his busy sched­ule, meet with the students and hear about their issues,” Brewster said. “It’s something I 
see JENKINS/page 4 


Jenkins runs with ROTC students 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
Some students on campus take the call to “wake up the echoes” very seriously — 
or 
at least that ’s how it seemed Wednesday when the sound of the ROTC cadets could be heard out­side Rolfs Sports Recreation Center at 7 a.m. 

Members of the Army, Air Force, Navy and Marine Corp, which is a component 

of 
the Navy, had just returned from their annual Tri-Military Run. University President Fr. John Jenkins and Executive Vice President John Affleck ­Graves joined the cadets in the 2.7 -mile run around campus. 


“It’s always a pleasure and 

see RUN/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER New peace studies/theology Ph.D. program page 3  D. Montayne page 8  Football secondaries page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, September 23, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR FAVOR TE STUDY SPOT?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Eric Prister John Cameron Chris Allen Sara Felsenstein Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Lisa Hoeynk Jordan Gamble 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Goose shooting interrupts ‘preach at beach’ Mass 
HINGHAM, Mass. — The rec­tor of a Hingham church said parishioners trying to hold a post-Mass picnic at the town’s beach were interrupt­ed by a Canadian goose being shot in front of them. The Rev. Timothy Schenk of the St. John the Evangelist Episcopal church said that the church was holding its “preach at the beach” Mass last week when parishioners saw two hunters open fire on a small flock of geese. He said one goose was shot and fell into the water, but did not die immediately. Schenk said parents and children at the picnic were upset about the shooting. He said the Mass was designed 
Chris Wilbar  John Garry  Sara Yusko  Lucy Smith  Pauline Kim  Brett Ubl  
freshman  freshman  senior  freshman  senior  freshman  
Fisher  Keenan  off campus  Breen Phillips  Lewis  Fisher  

“While the  “The library  “Second floor of  “Probably the  “If I do study …  “Arcadia in  
weather is nice,  basement.”  the library.”  silent study  it’s outside.”  O’Shag.”  
sitting on a  lounge of BP.”  
bench  
anywhere on  
campus.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

for children and to remind them that God isn’t just found at the pulpit and in the pews. A regulation prohibits dis­charging firearms on town property. No charges have been filed. 
Firefighters: TV left in sun likely caused blaze 
SPRINGFIELD, Mo. — A big-screen television left out­side in the sun this week was blamed for a fire that caused minor damage to a Springfield apartment. Assistant Fire Chief Randy Villines called the blaze “bizarre” and said mirrors inside the projection TV like­ly bounced and concentrated sunlight enough to start a fire. 
The TV was left outside the apartment building Monday with the screen facing toward a parking lot. 
The Springfield News-Leader reported that one person was arrested at the scene on suspicion of an unrelated charge, but Villines declined to give addi­tional details. 
One apartment complex resident was treated for smoke inhalation but refused further treatment. 
Officials said a sprinkler system installed on the out­side patio possibly prevented the blaze from spreading more rapidly to the wooden balconies above the patio. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The seminar, “Engineering in 2030: How the Engineering Profession is Changing,” will take place today at 3:30 p.m. This is the next installment in the Fall 2010 Seminar Series: Challenges and Innovation in Civil and Environmental Engineering. It will take place in DeBartolo Hall. 
The 2010 Rev. Bernie Clark, 
C.S.C. Lecture, “Globally Engaging Charity in Truth” will take place tomorrow at 
7:15 p.m. in Andrews Auditorium, Geddes Hall. The speaker will be Ken Hackett, president of Catholic Relief Services. 
A lunch session, Fostering Global Citizenship Learning Community, will take place Friday at noon in the Geddes Hall Coffee House. Subsequent Global Citizenship lunch sessions are scheduled for the second Friday of each month for the 2010-11 aca­demic year. 
Peace of Mind: The Art of Mindful Relaxation is a three-session self improvement pro­gram that provides an intro­duction to the use of mindful­ness and relaxation. Peace of Mind meets Wednesdays from 
4:05 to 5 p.m. in the third floor conference room of St. Liam Hall. 
John Montgomery, the founder of Bridgeway Capital Management, will present a lecture Monday in 129 DeBartolo Hall. The Berges Lecture Series features senior executives speaking on their experiences of the ethical dimensions of business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

CORRECTIONS 
Today Tonight FRIDAY GAME DAY Sunday 

Due to a reporting error,Terrence Rogers was misquoted in a Sept. 22 article titled “Ready for round two.” The quote: “He investigated kidnappings, disappearances and burnings of black peo­ple” is factually incorrect. Rogers, who is describing his FBI agent father in the quote, said he does not know of any documented cases of burnings of black people in the United States in the 1960s. When interviewed, he described one particular case of a kidnapping of a black person, named Mack Charles Parker, by several white-hooded men, from a jail in Poplarville, Miss. in 1959. Rogers said this is a well-known Civil Rights case, and his father interrogated the sheriff and the deputy of the jail about their possible complicity in the kidnapping. His father did not investigate multiple kidnappings as the misquote incorrectly states. 
Additionally, in the Sept. 22 article “Daly accepts position to be head of task force,” a quote was misattributed.The quote regarding Daly’s conflict with the administration as an undergraduate 



should be attributed to University President Fr. John Jenkins.The Observer regrets these errors. 

LOW 72 72 LOW 5048 48 




Thursday, September 23, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

Members discuss voting, relief fund, pep rallies 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student senate covered a broad agenda during titsmeeting Wednesday and discussed plans for voter registration and education, a disaster relief fund and the upcom­ing Stanford pep rally in Purcell Pavilion. 
Social Concerns chair Pat McCormick said efforts for voter registration and education kicked off Monday with a standing-room­only crowd for the lecture “Pizza, Pop and Politics: Midterm Elections 2010.” 
“The way that we have developed [voter registration] in terms of an action plan splits into three tiers,” McCormick said. “We have spent a lot of time researching this because it is really a priority.” 
The plan includes education on election issues for all voters, voter registration for residents of Indiana and encouraging out-of-state stu­dents to participate in midterm elections in the best way possible, McCormick said. 
Those students who are not resi­dents of Indiana may legally switch their residency to Indiana and vote in local elections, but this change could be problematic when transi­tioning back to their home state, McCormick said. 
“State laws vary in terms of switching your permanent residen­cy,” McCormick said. “We are encouraging everyone who is think­ing about switching their residency to Indiana to register here to meet with someone who can give them legal specifics.” 

Oversight chair Paige Becker said her committee is planning a disas­ter relief fund that would help the University reach out financially after a crisis. 
“The fund would act somewhat like a church charity fund,” Becker said. “It would be a continuous charity fund to be accessed in the event of a national or international disaster.” 
Student clubs could also petition to use the fund to finance projects and trips to areas in need of aid, Becker said. 
Senators also talked about the details of the upcoming home game weekend. 
The Stanford pep rally on Friday will bring the student body back to Purcell Pavilion, student body presi­dent Catherine Soler said. 
Each dorm will not have a desig­nated seating area, so students should arrive as early as possible with their residence hall before the pep rally begins at 6 p.m., she said. 
“We will definitely have good con­versations next week about what format we like best for pep rallies,” Soler said. 
Feedback from the Stanford pep rally will continue efforts to host pep rallies that are more oriented toward students, Soler said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

STUDENT GOVERN ENT ASSOCIATION 
Board to revise budget for2010-11academicyear 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
The budget for the Saint Mary College 2010-11 academic year was at the forefront of discussion at Wednesday’s Student Government Association (SGA) meeting. 
The Board voted to have the budget reviewed, and it will be brought up for approval again at next week’s meeting. 
Student body president Rachael Chesley said one of her main goals is to positively use this money to make it more visible on campus. 
“What’s important to remember is this is our money, and we want to make sure whatever the money is used for, we would use it to make our mark this year,” Chesley said. 
The SGA budget goes to a wide variety of units on campus, includ­ing club and organization sponsor­ships, allotments and programs and events on campus. 
SGA treasurer Megan Griffin out­lined the budget for the Board to help be clear where the funds would be going. 
Issues over the amount of money going into the Capital Fund, which will be used to improve the campus in general. Griffin said there has been feedback from students about what they would like to see on campus. 
Chesley said the money will be used carefully since it is money that comes from the students and needs to be used for them. 

Some members of the board were concerned about the Capital Fund because it comes from stu­dent fees. Senior Emma Hoffman, student trustee, said she wants to be sure there is student input in the decisions made about spending the money in the Capital Fund and that it is directly benefiting students. 
“The students are deciding how much they want to give for that. So, maybe if we could even encourage more events on campus,” Hoffman said. 
Chesley said she understands their hesitation, but told the Board the money will be used carefully and with full input. 
“We will have to be critical by saying, is this benefiting the stu­dent body?” Chesley said. 
Members also raised concerns about the amount of money that was allotted to the class boards, which changed this year. 
“In the past, [class boards] have been done by a certain number of people in the class,” Griffin said. “We did the same amount for every class, which is a $500 increase from last year.” 
Senior Katie Cuda, community commissioner, suggested money could be used to pay for Junior Moms’ Weekend or Senior Dads’ Weekend — events that currently cost parents money to participate. 
The budget was voted down and a revised budget will be brought before the Board Sept. 29. 
Contact Ashley Charnley atacharn01@saintmarys.edu 
ND adds Ph.D. program 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
A push from students helped bring about a new Ph.D. program in theology and peace studies that will begin in the fall, said Robert Johansen, director of doc­toral studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
“We’ve had many inquiries from people with interest in theology. These inquiries are coming from really excellent students,” Johansen said. 
Though the program was first approved two years ago, it will begin taking applicants around December or January, and classes will start in the fall. Applications are already available online. 
Johansen said students will be interested in the pro­gram for two reasons: their religious beliefs, commit­ments and ethics can con­tribute to peace making, and religious people can do their work much better if they understand peace building. 
“If you’re in a religious position, you can educate people on peace building,” he said. 
The faculty for the pro­gram will mainly come from the Kroc Institute, with other faculty members from the theology department also teaching classes, Johansen said. 
He is expecting a strong group of applicants, with around six spots for stu­dents in the theology and peace studies program. 
“The biggest benefit [of the program] is it brings together religious faith and peace making,” he said. “It provides the best possible instruction for both domains with a multidisciplinary feel.” 
Johansen said the pro ­gram has been three years in the making. 
“There is a feeling wide­spread among the adminis­tration that it is natural to brings these two together,” he said. 
The program’s approach can be compared to the approach in medical schools, Johansen said. Both schools bring together a wide variety of disciplines and integrate ideas. 
“By bringing both [theolo­gy and peace studies] together, each is enriched,” he said. “People are fully equipped to lead in mat­ters.” 
Johansen said he worked with Matt Ashley, the chair of the theology department, especially when the pro­gram was just beginning to come together. 
“Theologians increasingly are aware that answering questions of peace and rec­onciliation requires a pene­trating and nuanced grasp, not only of diverse aspects 
of Catholic theology, but also of cultural, political and economic conditions in which this theology is to be brought to bear,” Ashley said in a University press release. 
Johansen said although religion can sometimes con­tribute to war or violence, it can also contribute enor­mously to peace. The pro­gram will help handle chal­lenges faced in faith tradi­tions and peace building, he said. 
More information can be found on the Kroc Institute’s website, kroc.nd.edu, under “Degree Programs.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPSUS NEWS Thusday, September 23, 2010 
Lecture focuses on Christian unity 
help them unite with other He said the next step 
By MEGAN LONEY 

Christian factions. should be toward admitting 
News Writer 

Cahill said the Roman the gaps of Christianity and 
Catholic priests do not have admitting the faults of each 
Saint Mary’s welcomed roots founded in the Bible. It division. best-selling author Thomas may have been an invention “When we are certain we Cahill as the speaker for the of the early church, he said. are right, are we not in dan­fifth anniversary of the He suggested changing the ger in alienating anyone who revival of the Christian name of Roman Catholic does not agree?” Cahill said. Culture Lecture Wednesday. priests because Christians The decisions people make 
Cahill’s lecture, “The End of only have one father: God. to embrace other Christians Christian Divisions: Achieving “Let’s stop calling them or to continue excluding Reunion Through Truth -‘father.’ Jesus would certain-them will have immense con-telling,” focused on the three ly approve,” he said. sequences in the not-so-dis­divisions of Christianity — For the Protestants, Cahill tant future, Cahill said. Orthodox Christians, Roman spoke about their narrow The Christian Culture lec-Catholics, and Protestants — focus on scripture. The Bible ture’s goal is to explore the and the characteristics that is full of contradictions, he impact of Christianity on form barriers between them. said. western culture, College 
Cahill said Orthodox Cahill said it is important to President Carol Ann Mooney Christians have a strong acknowledge questions of said. liturgical component, but each division, but each The lecture has hosted over also said they adhere to the Christian tradition also has 100 speakers since its com-Julian calendar, instead of merit. mencement in 1957. Each adapting to the Gregorian Orthodox Christians have lecture is specifically written calendar as the other consecrated tradition, for the occasion and later Christians have. Catholics have the necessary published by the College, she 
Cahill said it was time for insight of a universal church said. the Orthodox Church to and Protestants show the switch to the Gregorian cal-importance of the Bible, Contact Megan Loney at endar, a move that would Cahill said. mloney@nd.edu 
Schlesinger founded the 
Program for Christian 
Memorial 
Culture, later renamed continued from page 1 Humanistic Studies. He also 
launched the Christian 
Culture Lecture series, Bruno, I discovered more which was re-established in surprises.” his honor in 2006. 
Thomas Schlesinger He received several shared his father’s softer awards from the College side with more than 85 peo-including the Spes Unica ple in atten-Award for dance at the teaching and 
“Bruno was a man
memorial serv-service in 1958. ice. of blatant emotional In 1994, the 
“Dad’s idea College awarded 
complexity ... he 
of family Schlesinger an 
could be genial,
nights, he honorary would show us stern, sweet, stub-degree. art slides,” he Donations will 
born, shy, sly.” 
s a i d . be collected in He recalled his memory to many different Gail Mandell fund the instances he professor Christian spent with his Culture Lecture 
Humanistic Studies 
father dis-series in the cussing poli-future. For tics, admiring art and travel-more information on ways to ing. honor Schlesinger, please 
Attendees remembered contact Libby Gray at Schlesinger for his dedica-egray@saintmarys.edu or tion to both the College and 574-284-4240. its students. He joined the College in 1945 and taught Contact Alicia Smith at his final class in 2004. asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
definitely respected and appre­ciated.” 
Senior Liz Furman, a member of the Campus Labor Action Project, addressed the University’s investments in HEI Hotels & Resorts with Jenkins. 
Furman said hotel workers have allegedly poor working conditions, expensive health care premiums and are intimi­dated when they try to form a union. Other worker com­plaints those students, said Mirella Riley, executive assistant to the Office of the President. 
“There’s a widespread inter­est in students to participate in office hours and to meet Fr. Jenkins or to bring a special concern to his attention,” Riley said. 
The office typically groups students who have a common complaint together. 
“Students themselves can dia­logue with one another in Fr. John’s presence, and I think he does a good job of facilitating those perspectives and sharing his own perspectives,” Riley said. “Obviously when the conver­sations are more 

involved low wages and heavy work-loads. “It’s just real­ly hard to fight against a cor­poration, espe­cially a corpo­ “It gives you an opportunity to connect with him much more personally and get a backstage view of what kind of man he is.”  personal or confi­dential in nature, we don’t do that.” A typical com­plaint involves construction on campus. “We’ve had stu­dents who have  
ration  that’s  said, ‘This is great  
e m p l o y i n g you,” Furman said. “We think  Reid Brewster junior  in terms of facili­ties and I’m glad that Notre Dame  

that the University should be investigating this more thor­oughly.” 
During her discussion with Jenkins, Furman urged the administration to meet with HEI hotel workers and adopt more transparent investment prac­tices. 
Furman said the meeting was worth her time, even though she still disagrees with the University. 
“I think it gave me a better idea of where the University stands on these issues, even though I disagree with it,” Furman said. 
An average of about 300 stu­dents request an appointment to meet with Jenkins during his office hours, but the office can accommodate only a third of is providing these 
types of facilities 
for us as stu­dents,’” Riley said. “Then stu­dents on the other end have said that in expanding, Notre Dame is losing the intimacy and character of the campus.” 
Jenkins will hold office hours again in November. Students must sign up in advance by completing a form available at http://president.nd.edu 
Jenkins has been holding office hours since 2006 and Riley said he values interacting with students in a more infor­mal setting. 
“We notice at least in the office that he is very energized by meeting with the students,” Riley said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens @nd.edu 


Rogers 
continued from page 1 
Rogers’ boxing description emerged from the three years he spent at West Point before transferring to Notre Dame. 
“The South Bend Tribune billed me as the boxer from West Point, which seemed to have some sort of mystique or aura about it,” Rogers said. 
As Rogers prepares to re­enter the boxing ring, he will meet some familiar faces. Terry Johnson, a vol­unteer coach and official for the Bengal Bouts, has held that post since before Rogers made his first Bengal Bouts attempt — and Johnson says today’s undergraduates will benefit from having Rogers spar with them. 
“Since the day I met Terry, he’s been a great competitor, and more than that, he ’s been a great sportsman. Anyone who’s faced Terry in the ring will tell you that,” Johnson said. “He’ll knock you down the hardest, but he’ll be the first to pick you back up again.” 
Nonetheless, Johnson said Rogers’ health, as a 55-year­old boxer, will need to coop­erate. 
“Obviously, safety is our priority,” Johnson said, “If he’s allowed to box, he’ll be the oldest boxer ever to compete in the Bengal Bouts.” 
But Rogers wasn’t too wor­ried about his eligibility to participate. 
“I ’m probably in better shape overall now than when I was as a student here,” he said. 
As Rogers has changed, so has life as a Notre Dame stu­dent — and Rogers noticed some improvements. 
“The most obvious change is that this place is now 50 percent women. When I was here it was probably about 20 percent,” Rogers said. “Notre Dame guys don’t know how lucky they are.” 
Another positive change, Rogers said, is the increased cultural diversity. 

“I’ve noticed so many dif­ferent ethnicities and nationalities here,” Rogers said. “Just like having women here, it’s made the University much stronger from a cultural and learning standpoint.” 
Although Rogers is now studying in a completely dif­ferent field than he did in his undergraduate days, he said students today are more accomplished. 
Rogers said the application pool to be admitted into a Notre Dame graduate pro­gram was competitive, and he was rejected 11 times. 
“After 11 rejections, it doesn’t take an Einstein to see that this is a more accomplished crowd,” he said. 
Students may also have had more fun back in the day, Rogers said. Many stu­dents went out to the Four Corners bars every night and drove up to Michigan on Sundays. 
Rogers recalled one bar called “The Library.” 
“They could say, ‘I spent every night at The Library,’ and be truthful, sort of,” he said. 
While some changes have been beneficial for the University, Rogers said foot­ball is another matter. 
“Certain realities have tempered the students’ expectations,” Rogers said. “When I was an undergradu­ate, a national championship was considered a birthright.” 
While Rogers can’t do any­thing to fix the football pro­gram, he can prepare him­self to win the Bengal Bouts, which means a rigorous schedule of training of at least an hour every day. 
After all, Rogers is not just fighting for himself, but to inspire other men over 40 and to raise money for the Holy Cross missions. With his wife’s support, Rogers plans to make his fourth attempt at winning Bengal Bouts a success. 
“My wife said to me, ‘I’m coming out to watch you fight and I’m not coming out to watch you lose,’” Rogers said. 
And he doesn’t plan to lose. But he does hope his story can be an inspiration to others. 
“If you believe in yourself and you have reasons to, you don’t have to follow the path of the herd,” Rogers said. “Set your own path and the herd can follow you. 
“That’s why I’m here.” 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

page 5 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 23, 2010 
ferent units of the ROTC a 
chance to come together, 
Run 
continued from page 1 
a rush,” Jenkins said of the run. “It’s a great chance to remember God’s important people who have made sacri­fices in our country.” 
Running in the annual Tri-Military Run is a tradition for Nees said, 
“This run builds that cama­raderie between the services. We’re probably just 2 to 3 percent of the student body, maybe three times the size of the football team,” he said. “The folks here are all preparing to be leaders in the military so we like run­
ning around cam­
pus all together.” 

the University president, and a representa-ti ve f r o m t h e  “This run builds that camaraderie between the  But that doesn’t m e a n a l i t t l e friendly competi­t i o n w a s o u t o f  
N a v y  s a i d  services.”  the question.  
ROTC appreci­ “ I t  w a s  j u s t  a  
a t e s h i s s u p -port. “ We h a v e a  Capt. Dale Nees professor  g o o d t h i n g , F r. Jenkins showing h i s s u p p o r t f o r  
great relation- Naval Science  the Navy and also  

ship with Notre Dame and we’re glad Fr. Jenkins can come out with us,” said Capt. Dale Nees, a professor of Naval Science, Navy cap­tain and senior commander. 
Jenkins told ROTC cadets after the run they “speak to what Notre Dame is all about.” 
“I just want to say how proud we are to have you at Notre Dame, ” he said. “I want to commend you for your leadership, hard work and sacrifice.” 
Midshipman Matthew Zak, a senior, said the annual run is one of the best ROTC events each year. 
“Just running around the campus early, hearing the cadences, we enjoy it,” he said. 
The run also gives the dif­the rest of the 
military,” Midshipman Neil Flattery, a freshman, said. 
“There’s definitely an ‘also’ that comes before ‘the rest of the military,’ since Navy is the best.” 
Freshman cadet Chris Lillie joked with Flattery, and said, “The Army is definitely bet­ter than the Navy.” 
But in the end, Lillie said the run showed solidarity between branches. 
“It was really amazing to see all the branches moving together and serving the mil­itary, and to see all of the 
other branches coming together and doing the same things you’re doing,” Lillie said. 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 



The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Thursday, September 23, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A shore thing 

This past Tuesday, I took advantage of a two-hour lull in the afternoon to go to the gym and put in a workout. On the walk back to Alumni, I rolled up my shirt­sleeves and tried to get atan on an uncharacteristi­cally sunny day, an attempt that failed miserably. When I got back, I put in a load of laundry. 

To anyone out 
Chris Allen 
there who knows I’m from 
A ssistant 
New Jersey and 

Sports Editor 
sarcastically made a ‘G.T.L.’ joke in their minds, this column is for you. I’m about to hit you with a dose of reality. 
For the less MTV-savvy among you, the process I’m referring to is the daily tasks of Gym, Tanning, and Laundry (in that order, mind you) made part of the popular lexicon by the increasingly visible member of the reality series “Jersey Shore”. 
There are a lot of things that make me angry. But almost nothing makes me angry enough to write a column. The total desecration of the image of my home state, and its most beautiful region, by MTV’s admittedly addicting reality series leaves it to people like me to bring some basic facts to this fine Midwestern university communi­ty. 
The real Jersey shore is not teeming with self-proclaimed guidos, binge drinking and sketchy nightclubs. Trust me, the shore I grew up with wouldn’t make a good reality show. Go up to any New Jerseyan you know (and given the preposterously high ratio of us at Notre Dame, I’m willing to bet you know a handful) and ask them what the region means to them. 
I’ll tell you what it means to me. It’s a place where, inexplicably, a collision of beautiful beaches, boardwalks and a dizzying combination of attractions and amusements results in an almost impossible juxtaposition of serenity and vibrancy and an environment where time almost ceases to exist. Some of your fellow Domers even call the region home. I should be so lucky! 
Some of the best moments of my childhood occurred at Point Pleasant Beach in New Jersey, so I can say with absolutely certainty that the nine-year old that is still alive and beating inside me feels a little betrayed that people now associate my beaches with a bunch of celebrity-hungry bim­bos from New York and New England. Just about the only thing that would make my inner child more angry is if The Situation and Pauly D took their show to Disney World and tried to pick fights with Mickey Mouse as they tried to hit on Snow White. 
As consumers of reality television, we have to be able to see the line where reality ends and fabricated production takes over. “Jersey Shore” seems to be the ultimate example of that, as to me the show is no different than a scripted comedy. 
So enjoy the show, but please, be nice to my New Jersey. We already have to deal with Snooki on a regular basis, so we don’t need the extra has­sle. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
The American Dream 

The last time I heard anyone use the term “The American Dream” in conversation, George W. Bush was still in office. This recession has real­ly made a lot of us forget where we come from. In the America I Mark Easley remember from 
Elephantin
2006, anybody 
the Room 

could become anybody with the right attitude and plan because the America of 2006 had the same spirit and identity as the America of 1776. Freedom is a powerful tenet and it implies that even though we are all born the same and we all die the same, what we do in between is really up to us. 
Great Grandpa Easley was alive at the turn of the century. He was just another American living in the heart­land of Indiana. He suffered through the depression and raised a family that even sent one kid to Purdue. Great Grandpa didn’t have much in terms of money or education, but he had a little plan and made reason­able life decisions. He would see to it that his family got educated and that the daughters were married to good husbands, the best way for females to gain financial stability at the time. Although he didn’t get to the top of anything, most people would count his life as a success. I certainly will. 
Grandpa Jack Easley was another American success. Growing up under Great Grandpa’s roof, Jack didn’t have much either, but he had a good head on his shoulders and strong work ethic. He graduated high school, a place his father never stepped foot, and became an electri­cal engineering student at Purdue. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Grandpa Jack built tanks during the war, and then moved on to air condi­tioning and automotive electronics. Jack got married and raised a family and like his father, made sure educa­tion was top priority. All four of his kids became graduates of Purdue University, with two of them getting graduate degrees. Jack even started his own small business at one point, which he eventually sold. Jack wasn’t anything special, just another kid who made decent decisions along the way. He was never rich by any account but he was able to push him­self and his family into a place where there were opportunities for the future. 
Mark Easley Sr. didn’t grow up rich. Born in Indianapolis, he lived in a house with four young mouths to feed and clothe. Mark was most like Jack in his school work and endeav­ors. He, too, followed his father into engineering, but with a computer sci­ence major. For 20 years, Senior pio­neered the personal computer indus­try in Silicon Valley, and was able to retire early. He didn’t inherit any­thing, he didn’t know anybody. He was reaping the fruits of his labor through the opportunities that were presented to him. 
When I was born in February of 1990, my family had come a long way. It took three generations and over 100 years to get me, the fourth generation of Easley to have the unlimited opportunity that everyone seems to be looking for. And I wasn’t even born into that. For years I worked on my schooling, getting straight A’s year after year. While others got distracted, I always kept education as my top priority. I had to take the SAT three times before I got the score I wanted. I took the SAT IIs and six different AP tests. I didn’t have to do it, I could have always quit, but I had a plan for myself. I wanted to do something that no Easley has done before. I wanted to attend a premier university, and Notre Dame was among my choices. I’m not smarter than anyone else. I don’t even work harder than anyone else. The reason why I am where I am is because I just don’t quit on my plans. I don’t quit on myself by mak­ing poor decisions. 
The American Dream is not about rags to riches in a lifetime. It’s about sustained progress over generations, where the next has more than the last, where the values of hard work and family and education are passed on. It’s a long road and people all have their struggles, but by default, living in America is your best chance of making it in the long term. It’s not about intelligence or money. It’s about taking good risks for personal betterment and not endangering your success with bad life choices. Our country’s middle class is filled with family histories similar to mine. If you want to have an American Dream, look to what others have done to achieve it and learn from their example. Knowledge, educa­tion, and determination really are the cornerstones of success. 
Mark Easley is a junior. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“O, it is excellent to have a giant’s strength; but it is tyrannous to useit like a giant.” 
William Shakespeare English dramatist & poet 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Those who don’t know how to weepwith their whole heart, don’t know how to laugh either.” 
Golda Meir Israeli politician 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 23, 2010 page 7 
Note to self: Don’t be like the rich man 
Today marks the autumnal equinox, which for the northern hemisphere marks the official end of summer and the beginning of fall. Here, that inexplicably means a forecasted high 
of 90 very un-fall­ 
like degrees.  Kate Barrett  
What’s wonderful  
about living in South Bend is that  Faithpoint  

(say what you will about our humid summers, the much-maligned “per­macloud” of winter, the way spring seems to consist of about three days that sneak in between slushy brown snow and sweaty heat) we’re really, really lucky to have four actual sea­sons here. 
I can’t imagine living in a season-less climate, a place where you might fail to appreciate a warm sunny day because every day is already warm and sunny. Here we have to grab hold of the beautiful days and squeeze every last moment of clear­blue-75-degree-wonderfulness out of them. We have the opportunity to celebrate each new color that appears on the vast array of campus trees (check out the maple behind Lyons Hall on the grass near the vol­leyball court, a tree I have especially loved every fall for years). 
Unfortunately, whether it’s the weather or other more or less signifi­cant aspects of our day-to-day life, we fail to notice or appreciate much of what’s going on all around us. Remember the gospel story of the rich man who walked right by Lazarus every day, not even noticing his sores, his hunger, his need for human contact? Even the dogs noticed Lazarus more than that rich man did. Clothed in fine linen, he dined “sumptuously,” probably on fare that would make a cardiologist cringe, and the fact that Lazarus lacked the ability to meet even the most minimal of needs completely escaped the rich man’s attention. 
But that part was just a flashback – the bulk of the story, as Jesus tells it, takes place after both the rich man and Lazarus have died. The rich man, tormented in the fiery flames 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Saturday challenge 
This Saturday we will host a very impressive Stanford team, a team that mirrors the pugnacious toughness and determination of their head coach. We will win this game only if we return to our underdog, blue collar Fighting Irish roots and show the Cardinal that, what tho’ the odds be great or small, our tough­ness and determination overwhelms theirs. We must be relent­less. 
And when I say “we”, I don’t just mean the team — I mean ALL of us. I challenge the students: when Stanford has the ball on the north end of the field, don’t allow them to get a play off. At all. Not even one. The noise must be deafening, not just on big downs — on every down. I challenge the alumni: stand and yell for your team. Do not shout “sit down” at anyone in front of you, and do not sit down if someone shouts it at you. This is a football game, not a piano recital. I challenge the players: take some­body’s head off. Because I guarantee that your opponent will if you don’t. This isn’t a contact sport, this is a war. And when you get ‘em down, step on their throats. No mercy. 
This Saturday, let’s be the Fighting Irish again. 
Mike Schafer 
alumnus 
Class of 1982 
Sept. 21 
Modification 
I would like to modify my complaint published in The Observer of Sept. 22 (“Gingrich visit to ND.”) As per correspondence and research with University administration, and the “Correction” pub­lished in today’s South Bend Tribune, the facts appear somewhat different today, as follows: 
1. 
No Notre Dame funds were used to bring Mr. and Mrs. Gingrich to town (i.e. travel expenses). 

2. 
Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Gingrich made political comments on campus — notwithstanding the unfortunate and misleading juxta­position of the photo and headline in the South Bend Tribune. (Their presence as special guests and speakers on campus is another issue. Some might say that is symbolic in itself.) 

3. 
The only expenditure of University funds was for the rental of Washington Hall and the cost of a small reception after the screen­ing. 

4. 
The University did not have anything to do with, or was even aware of, other activities that Mr. Gingrich scheduled while he was in town. 

5. 
No University funds went to his travel or lodging, or meals. I maintain that Mr. Gingrich is not an admirable guest to bring to our campus, as per the views published on his own website. But it appears that the Notre Dame policy was maintained, and 


that is good news. Sincerely, 

Julia Douthwaite 
faculty Romance Languages and Literature Sept. 22 
which await those who thoughtlessly consume prodigious amounts of everything while surrounded by suf­fering and need, at last notices Lazarus. In a manner of speaking. When the man finally focuses on Lazarus, does he think “A brother!” or “A fellow human being!” or “A faithful follower of God’s covenant!”? Not a chance. The rich man looks at Lazarus, who at long last rests in comfort, and thinks, “Errand boy!” 
“Send Lazarus to take care of a few things,” the rich man asks Abraham in the story. “I’d really love a drink, and he needs to take a message to my brothers for me.” Abraham replies, “Sorry, but clearly you haven’t been paying attention.” 
The rich man did not “see” in two ways: he failed to observe Lazarus’ need even though he confronted it every day, and perhaps even worse, he failed to perceive Lazarus as a creature equal to himself in God’s eyes, deserving of respect, not just directions. 
How often do we neglect to live attentively? Do we miss a chance to be grateful for the gift of a perfectly beautiful day or the way a maple turns twenty shades of red in the fall? More importantly, do we ever overlook other people, or see them only through the lens of what they can do for us? 
In the weeks and months to come, we will come to appreciate more and more the warm and sunny days, the likes of which we won’t see again until next April or May. Between now and then, as these changing days remind us to stay alert, we ought to strive to live more attentive­ly, observant of the beauty, the uniqueness, and often the variety of needs present within each person we encounter. 
This week’s article is written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program. She can be reached at Katharine.S.Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Realignment and research 
I agree with Andy’s comments about why Notre Dame should remain an independent entity in football (“Conference realignment 101,” Sept. 21). In fact, I am one of those who say an emphatic “No!” when asked if we should join the Big Ten conference. I will never want to see our storied football tradition and history be gradually whittled away by being part of a con­ference. 
But our agreements stop there when Andy somehow mashes together football with aca­demic research and education. I fail to see any connection there. Firstly, this is not about Notre Dame associating itself with a group of schools. To remind Andy, we are already part of the Big East for some of our other sports and that asso­ciation has never affected and should never affect the quality of education Notre Dame offers, or for that matter, the stance towards certain fields of research that are in conflict with our Catholic beliefs. This is not about our associations but about our football traditions and getting to keep and cherish them. 
Secondly, even if there was a connection, how does performing world-class research under­mine the superior quality of undergraduate education that Notre Dame strives to offer? If that was the case, I am pretty sure every uni­versity would abandon its research programs and graduate school. As someone who has been through both undergraduate and graduate school, I strongly believe that the classroom experiences are greatly enhanced when there are opportunities to apply them in research projects. There is no quicker and better way to higher learning than working to solve challeng­ing problems that plague our community. Besides, the satisfaction of having contributed to solving such problems is unparalleled. So, having a focus towards doing world-class research is there to only complement and enrich the classroom experiences and feeling of community that Notre Dame offers; not to replace them. We should only be proud that we are making strides towards also being known for our research programs. 
Finally, who said we cannot be all three? A top undergraduate institution, a world-class research university and a national champi­onship winning independent football program. Go Irish! 
Dinesh Rajan 
graduate student Fischer Graduate Residence Sept. 21 
Public service announcement 
Attention: This is for the dogs that feel the need to shower in the bathrooms of all the male dorms across campus. I have a bone to pick with you. 
First of all, thank you, from the bottom of my heart, for showering. I mean it. Because I’ve seen some of y’all walking around campus and honestly, you had me kinda worried. “But Buchi, how can you tell that they are showering?” Great question! That brings me to my second point. 
I can tell because you guys leave your hair in the shower as if you were marking your territo­ry! If at the end of your magnificent shower sesh, you look down and can’t tell where your leg hair ends and the shower floor begins, then Houston, we have a problem. Same goes for the toilets! If after you “Release the Kraken!” you look at the toilet seat and its rockin’ a new fur coat, then we have a problem! 
Look, I’m not mad at you because you’re hairy. 
Hugh Jackman’s my fav. But please, please clean up after yourself. I’m tired of playing twister every time I try to take a shower. “Left foot, white tile! Hurry, before that hairball comman­deers it!” *5 seconds later* “Damn, Damn, DAMN! It sunk my battleship!” Different game but you get the idea. Clean it up, Notre Dame. Sheesh. 
Sincerely yours for the next 240 days, 
Buchi O. 
P.S. The phrase “Release the Kraken” used in reference to taking a No. 2 is trademarked for exclusive use by members of TriPod, Inc. only. I’m serious. Look it up. If you use it, we will find you. 
Buchi Offodile 
senior Dillon Hall Sept. 21 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Thursday, September 23, 2010 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, September 23, 2010 page 9 


‘Toy Story 3’DeBartolo 101 10 p.m.$3 admission 

Head over to DeBartolo for a little updated nostalgia in the summer hit “Toy Story 3.” 
Buzz, Woody and the whole toybox return for the third installment in the “Toy Story” saga, the one that started it all for the Disney and Pixar partner­ship, This time, Andy is going off to college, and his toys are going off to “retirement.” 
They soon find out that their new home is a day care center, and their new owners are vio­lently playful toddlers. 
Illusionist Mike Super Washington Hall main stage 9 p.m., doors open at 8 p.m. Free with ND/SMC/HCC ID 
A veritable superstar on the campus entertainment circuit, Mark Super has been wowing college students with his “men­talist” tricks for years. Expect to see someone levitate, snow to fall fromhis hands and many other audience-interactive illusions. 
In 1997, Super (yes, that is his real name) won “Phenomenon,” an NBC television competition that was like “American Idol” for magicians. The different tricks were judged by none other than Criss Angel. 
Niles Haunted House Scream Park Niles, Mich. 8 to 11 p.m.$3 to $10 for various attractions 
Start the Halloween season off right with the Niles Haunted House Scream Park in Niles, Mich. The park features five dif­ferent haunted attractions: a brand new Haunted House, Zach’s Zombie Motel, pirate ships at the Legend of Pirates Cove, a mile-long Haunted Hayride and a haunted maze at the Field of Screams. 
The Niles Haunted House Scream Park runs on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays through­out all of October. 
‘A Town Called Panic’ Browning Cinema at DPAC 3 p.m.$3 for student, $6 for everyone else 
Imagine “Toy Story” on acid and set on a farm. 
For your requisite bit of surre­al French -language cinema, check out based on a cult stop-motion animation television series, stop into DPAC. The 75­minute film follows the disjoint­ed adventures of a bunch of farm-themed toys. 
“A Town Called Panic” is earn­ing raves from critics like Roger Ebert, who said, “It has an inno­cent hallucinatory charm.” 


LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 23, 2010 
NFL 

Patriots’ Faulk out for year after knee surgery 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — New England Patriots all-purpose running back Kevin Faulk has done nearly everything except grab headlines. 
He finally made one this week and it brought him to tears: Torn Knee Ligament, Out For The Season. 
Faulk, one of the team’s most valuable players, said Wednesday he would have sur­gery in about a month. He left unanswered the question of whether he would play again after being hurt on Sunday. 
“I got the question asked of me by my son when I got home on Monday. ‘Is that it for me?’ “ the 12-year veteran said with a laugh. “I said, ‘son ... I’m going to do my best to rehab and see what happens from there.’ “ 
The 34-year-old Faulk was placed on injured reserve. He is the only Patriots player who was with the team when Bill Belichick became coach in 2000, ushering in an era in which injury information is guarded very closely. But Faulk was very forthcoming when he told reporters swarming at his locker that he had a torn anterior cru­ciate ligament. Then he lingered to discuss his feelings. 
“I’m not sad anymore,” he said. “I think when it first hap­pened ... I was sad, cried a whole lot. But, hey, it’s life. You’ve got to deal with it. You get knocked off the road some­times. It’s how you get back on and who you are as a person” that matters. 
Faulk hurt his right knee less than two minutes into the fourth quarter of the 28-14 loss to the Jets when he ran wide to the left and was brought down near the New York sideline when corner­back Drew Coleman hit him on the knee. He lay flat on his stom­ach then slid his upper body up with both knees still on the ground as Patriots medical per­sonnel rushed across the field. 
He knew right away it was a bad injury. 
“I think the frustration during the course of walking from their sideline to our sideline kind of showed a little bit,” said Faulk, who threw his mouthpiece as he headed to his bench. 
The Patriots, who traded Laurence Maroney to the Denver Broncos last week, are left with a depleted running back group of Fred Taylor, Sammy Morris, BenJarvus Green-Ellis and new­comer Danny Woodhead to face the Buffalo Bills on Sunday. 
Taylor has gotten most of the carries, Morris seems best suited to Faulk’s third-down role and Woodhead has been with the team less than a week after being cut by the Jets. He has Maroney’s old locker and num­ber 39 and drew a large crowd of reporters Wednesday. 
“I was in New York for a cou­ple of years and there’s also media there,” Woodhead said. “It’s not something that I’m too worried about.” 
Faulk, Morris said, “is a differ­ent kind of back than all of us. I think he’s, obviously, the more shifty. He’s a great screen run­ner.” 
He’s also an outstanding block­er who excels at picking up the blitz. He’s a resourceful receiver with a nose for the first-down marker and the most productive kickoff returner in club history. He’s unselfish and widely respected by his teammates and coaches. 
His statistics — 44 starts in 154 regular-season games, no 100-yard rushing games, a career single-game high of only two touchdowns — don’t draw much attention. And he’s only 5 feet 8. 
So what? 
“It doesn’t matter what any­body else says,” Faulk said. “My coaching staff, players that I’ve played with, they know what type of football player I am. They know what type of person I am and how hard I’m going to go out there and play for you.” 
Tom Brady knew he could depend on Faulk to protect him and catch key passes. 
“Very few guys over the years have played as well and consis­tently at such a high level as Kevin,” Brady said. “There’s nobody like him. He’s such a unique person, a unique talent, a unique spirit about him. (Kevin) always provides great leadership, so it’s a big loss for us.” 
Brady tore knee ligaments in the 2008 opener and returned in 2009 to have an outstanding season. Wide receiver Wes Welker made a speedy recovery after tearing a knee ligament in the regular-season finale on Jan. 3 and scored two touchdowns in this year’s opener. 
“They all reached out to me,” Faulk said. 
When he arrived as a second-round draft pick out of Louisiana State, the Patriots were three years removed from a Super Bowl loss. They were 8-8 in his rookie year and 5-11 in 2000, Belichick’s first year. But they won the championship the next season. 

“I think I’m pretty lucky that he was here when I got here,” Belichick said. “He’s smart. He’s tough. He’s got good skills, good running skills, good catching skills. He’s a good decision maker. Most of all, I think he’s very coachable and really cares about the game, his teammates and his team. What’s there not to like about Kevin Faulk?” 
MLB 

Rodriguez charged with contempt after texting girlfriend 
The 28-year-old reliever was Venezuela. Kessler. “There are no threats, no menac-
Associated Press 

accused of grabbing Pena’s father,  “He’s not naive or loving. He’s  Rodriguez could be jailed if he  ing comments. There are more text  
53-year-old Carlos Pena, hauling  manipulative and controlling,”  has any further communication  messages of the defendant profess- 
NEW  YORK  — Mets  closer  him into a tunnel near the family  Kessler said.  with Pena. The restraining order is  ing his love,” he said.  
Francisco Rodriguez was charged  lounge beneath the team’s new ball- Pena never responded to the  in place until at least February.  The accusations  are  costing  
Wednesday with seven counts of  park and hitting him in the face  messages,  which  Defense attor- Rodriguez about $3.1 million so far.  
criminal contempt for sending his  after a game Aug. 11.  included 17 sent in  ney Christopher  He was restricted for two days with- 
girlfriend dozens of text messages begging for forgiveness, violating a  Rodriguez was told to keep away from Carlos Pena and his daughter.  one day Kessler said.  alone,  “He’s not naive or  Booth said in court that the  out pay after his initial arrest and was booed when he returned to the  
restraining order issued after he was accused of attacking her father at Citi Field. Rodriguez, who wore a studded  But a week after he appeared in court, he sent her two text mes­sages and kept going, sending 56 in all.  The messages started out contrite, but got progressively angrier. “Thank you  loving. He’s manipulative and controlling.”  case wasn’t about Daian Pena, and o r d e r i n g  mound. He apologized to fans, but tore a ligament in his thumb of his pitching hand during the fight, and had to have season-ending surgery.  
T-shirt and a gold chain, did not  Assistant District Attorney Scott  for sinking me turn- Rodriguez  to  The Mets said they wouldn’t pay  
enter a plea at his arraignment. He posted the $7,500 bail almost immediately and left Queens court  Kessler said Rodriguez understood he wasn’t supposed to contact her, but did it anyway simply because he  ing your back, take good care of my chil­dren ... and now I see  Scott Kessler Assistant District Attorney  keep away from her and their twins confused  him while on the disqualified list. They also exercised a contractual right to convert the rest of his $37  
without speaking. A new protection  felt like it. Kessler also said that the  that your were with  the situation. He  million, three-year deal to nonguar­ 
order was issued barring him from  pitcher has a history of abuse, men- me because of the  said his client  anteed, meaning they could try to  
contacting Daian Pena and her fam­ tioning a previous case where he  money ...” he wrote in the final mes­ wasn’t clear he wasn’t supposed to  avoid paying most of what’s left on  
ily.  was accused of assaulting Pena in  sage on Aug. 23, according to  try to resolve the issue.  it.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

age the majority of the job func-Spacious Upper-Level Apartment please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 property, with company property. best they could. And she is going to tions. Pay is $10/ hr. Please send Near Airport, on Busline 1 Bdr. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more So, double jeopardy, we're fine. be ok.WANTED your resume to hr@betterworld-$550, All Util Included Call Mike information, visit ND's website at: Ryan: I don't think-- I don't think you Stanley: What is wrong with you? 
books.com for consideration! 574-250-0191 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. understand how jeopardy works. Why would you have to phrase is Better World Books, Mishawaka, ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— Michael Scott: Oh, I'm sorry. What like that? IN, is looking for an enthusiastic If you or someone you care about is, 'we're fine'? ——————————————— college student with excellent inter-has been sexually assaulted, we ——————————————— Guess what? I have flaws. What personal, communication skills, FOR RENT can help. For more information, visit Michael Scott: Ladies and gentle-are they? Oh I donno, I sing in the
PERSONAL
organizational and multi-tasking Notre Dame's website: man, I have some bad news. shower? Sometimes I spend too skills and a strong work ethic to join LakesideCozy furnished 3 bedroom http://csap.nd.edu Meredith was hit by a car. much time volunteering. our team as a PT (20 hrs/wk) cottage 30 minutes from South UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't ——————————————— Oscar: Where? Occasionally I'll hit somebody with Outbound Telesales Rep. This posi-Bend. Tranquil beach community. go it alone. Notre Dame has many Quotes from The Office: Michael Scott: It happened this my car. So sue me-- no, don't sue tion requires heavy phone usage One bath, fireplace, washer / dryer, resources in place to assist you. If Ryan: Did this happen on company morning in the parking lot. I took her me. That is opposite the point I'm and consistently utilizes full kitchen. Security deposit/ refer-you or someone you love needs property? to the hospital. And the doctors trying to make. Salesforce.com (CRM tool) to man ences requested.708-205-4547 confidential support or assistance, Michael Scott: It was on company tried to save her, life, they did the ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Thursday, September 23, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NBA 

D’Antoni confident in retooled Knicks roster 
Associated Press 
GREENBURGH, N.Y. — LeBron James never came. Carmelo Anthony might be interested in coming. 
The New York Knicks aren’t interested in discussing either. 
After two years of working solely on ways to rebuild the team through free agency, even at the cost of winning games, team officials believe it’s time to put the focus back on the court. 
The roster is almost entirely changed, and they believe it could be a winning one. 
“As a coaching staff, I know we’re really excited about who we have and not even thinking about looking down the hall­way, see what else is going on,” coach Mike D’Antoni said Wednesday. “We’re very con­tent at the people we can put on the floor this year.” 
The Knicks will open training camp Friday at their practice facility with 10 newcomers, as they were one of the league’s busiest teams over the summer after a 29-53 season. 
They hoped to land James and one other superstar, but he decided on Miami instead. Still, they picked up perennial All-Star forward Amare Stoudemire, whom team presi­dent Donnie Walsh called “as good a player as we’ve had here in a long time.” 
The Knicks also believe for­mer Charlotte Bobcats point guard Raymond Felton is the floor leader they need; are high on Anthony Randolph, the cen­terpiece of a trade with Golden State, and are intrigued by cen­ter Timofey Mozgov of Russia. 
New York also expects the continued improvement of for­ward Danilo Gallinari, so Walsh said some players in this group will be around when the Knicks finally start winning again after a franchise-worst nine consecu­tive losing seasons. 
“I do think that with the group of players we have here right now, you’re going to go forward with a lot of these guys,” Walsh said. “And it’s not going to be anybody I can tell you right now, but there are guys here that are going to be guys that you’re going say, ‘Yeah, we want to keep this guy for a long time.’“ 
Or perhaps some will be offered in hopes of landing Anthony. 
The All-Star still hasn’t signed a contract extension with Denver and can become a free agent next summer. 
The New York native report­edly has the Knicks atop his wish list, though the Nuggets could opt to trade him before next summer to avoid losing him for nothing. 
Walsh refused to say if he had or would contact the Nuggets, though the New York Times reported Monday that a Knicks official said New York was told during preliminary conversa­tions that it didn’t have the assets Denver was seeking if it did decide to trade its star. 
The Knicks can’t offer a first-round pick until at least 2014, since they sent their 2012 choice to Houston last season and NBA rules prevent teams from trading first-round picks in consecutive years. So Walsh can only offer what he has on his roster now if he’s looking to deal. 
“I don’t really want to get into trades, talking about trades, because it’s fruitless,” he said. “There are trades you’d make and there are trades you wouldn’t make, and that’s about as good as I can do.” 
If some of the key signees meet expectations, the Knicks could be good enough to reach the postseason even without a move. Stoudemire flourished in D’Antoni’s system in Phoenix, and Felton appears to be an upgrade at point guard, a necessity if the offense will ever look like it did with the Suns. 
“I think any team, you can go wherever you go, the point guard’s critical. Doesn’t matter my system, your system, his system, doesn’t matter,” D’Antoni said. “You’ve got a really good point guard, you’re going to be pretty good and the coach is going to look pretty good. If you don’t, then you’re going to struggle some nights and I think Raymond has an ability to win basketball games and that’s what he’s here for.” 
Walsh said the Knicks will start training camp without guard Kelenna Azubuike, who came with Randolph and Ronny Turiaf in the trade that sent All-Star David Lee to Golden State. Azubuike is still recover­ing from a torn patellar tendon in his left knee, which Walsh called one of the worst injuries a basketball player can face. 

Eddy Curry also is expected to be on the court after sitting out most of the last two seasons because of injuries and other personal issues. 
He still hasn’t arrived in New York and Walsh said he hasn’t spoken with the center, keeping a vow not to bother Curry and trust he was working out. 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 23, 2010 
MLB 

Lopez hits three home runs in Mariners win 
Scherzer leads Tigers past the Royals with help from Cabrera; Uggla homers as Marlins beat Mets in Miami 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Jose Lopez hit three home runs, Michael Saunders added a two-run drive and the Seattle Mariners beat the Toronto Blue Jays 6-3 on Wednesday night. 
Lopez hit a solo shot off starter Kyle Drabek in the sec­ond inning, led off the sixth with a blast off reliever Brian Tallet, and connected again off reliever Shawn Camp in the eighth. It was his first multi-homer game of the season and fourth of his career. 
Lopez, who has 10 home runs, hit all three homers to left field. 
It was the 11th three-homer performance in Mariners histo­ry. Mike Cameron had Seattle’s only four-homer game, doing it May 2, 2002, against the Chicago White Sox. 
Saunders added a two-run shot in the second as the Mariners won for the third time in five games after a seven-game losing streak. 
Vernon Wells had a solo shot, Toronto’s major league-best 233rd. The Blue Jays hit a club-record 244 homers in 2000. 
Seattle’s starting lineup had combined for only 38 home runs, fewer than the major league-high 49 of Toronto’s Jose Bautista, but it was the Mariners who came out on top in this one. 
Seattle, whose offense has scored a major league-low 481 runs, improved to 37-19 when scoring four runs or more. 
Mariners right-hander David Pauley (3-8) came in winless in five starts but earned his first victory since Aug. 18 by allow­ing two runs and six hits in six innings. He walked two and matched a season-high with five strikeouts. 
Jamey Wright pitched two innings and former Blue Jays reliever Brandon League worked the ninth, surrendering an RBI groundout to John Buck. 
Seattle’s Ichiro Suzuki went 1 for 5, leaving him two hits from becoming the first player to record 10 consecutive 200-hit seasons. Suzuki leads the majors with 198 hits. 
Bautista went 1 for 4 with a double. 
Fans cheered when Bautista hammered a 2-1 pitch down the left field line in the fifth, but the ball hooked foul. Bautista got a loud ovation as he returned to home plate to pick up his bat. 
Making his second career start and his home debut, Drabek (0-2) allowed three runs and four hits, including two homers, in five innings. The key player acquired by Toronto in last December’s trade with Philadelphia for Roy Halladay, Drabek walked one and struck out three. 
The Mariners opened the scoring in the second when Ryan Langerhans hit a two-out single and Saunders followed with a homer to center, his ninth. 
Lopez made it 3-0 with a two-out shot to left in the third before Toronto closed the gap with a two-run fourth. Wells led off with his 29th homer, and second in as many days, and Edwin Encarnacion had an RBI­groundout. 
Lopez homered again on Tallet’s first pitch of the sixth, then greeted Camp with a two-run blast in the eighth. 
Tigers 4, Royals 2 
Miguel Cabrera's leadoff sin­gle started a three-run fifth inning and the Detroit Tigers held on to beat the Kansas City Royals on Wednesday night. 
Max Scherzer (12-10) gave up two hits and struck out eight over 7 2-3 innings. Ryan Perry got the final out of the eighth and Phil Coke pitched a shaky ninth. 
Billy Butler hit a two-run, two-out homer in the ninth to pull the Royals within two. 
Kyle Davies (8-11) was perfect through four innings before giv­ing up three runs on four hits in the fifth. 
Rookie Brennan Boesch hit a two-run double in the pivotal inning, matching his total of RBIs from the previous 16 games this month. 
Johnny Damon gave Detroit a four-run lead in the eighth, sending a liner to the fence after left fielder Gregor Blanco misjudged it. Rookie Austin Jackson scored on the play. 
Cabrera, an MVP candidate, was walked intentionally in the eighth and ended the night with 
a .326 batting average. He leads the majors with 120 RBIs and is among the leaders with 45 dou­bles and 35 homers. 
Davies was dominating Detroit's hitters until Cabrera led off the fifth with the single. Ryan Raburn followed with a one-hit single and Boesch, who was a hot-hitting phenom before the All-Star break, hit a two-run double to the gap in right-center. Brandon Inge's single drove in the third and final run of inning. 
Davies ended up giving up four runs, seven hits and one walk over eight innings. 
Scherzer was sharp as he has often been the past three months, winning for the 10th time in 14 decisions. 
Detroit helped him out with some slick plays defensively. Second baseman Will Rhymes made a sliding stop on a shot up the middle, flipped the ball out of his glove to shortstop Jhonny Peralta for a third-inning end­ing double play. 
Marlins 7, Mets 5 
MIAMI — Wes Helms had two of his three RBIs in a five-run first inning, Dan Uggla drove in a pair of runs and the Florida Marlins held on for a victory over the New York Mets on Wednesday night. 
Alex Sanabia (5-3) allowed three runs in five innings for the Marlins, who have won three straight. 
Leo Nunez got the Marlins out of a jam in the eighth and Clay Hensley pitched the ninth for his fifth save. 
With the Marlins leading 6-3 in the eighth, the Mets loaded the bases with one out while facing Jose Veras, who then issued a walk to Josh Thole, forcing in a run. Veras was replaced by Leo Nunez and Chris Carter drove in a run with a groundout to pull the Mets to 6-5. Nick Evans struck out to end the inning. 



Thursday, September 23, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Alumni 
continued from page 16 
against Providence. Iarocci said she hopes that the prospect of playing at Alumni Stadium will draw more supporters to the tour­nament. 
“We’re bringing it full cir­cle by including the soccer programs,” Iarocci said. “We are utilizing all our resources, hoping to get more undergraduates involved in the tournament to sustain it over the years. We’re reaching out to the whole community, making sure that students are aware of this.” 
Iarocci said she hopes the tournament will inspire peo­ple to donate even if they are not playing, and even expand the Lose Your Shoes concept to other universities. 
“We’d love to get outside donations, ” Iarocci said. “Ultimately, this is about people playing soccer but remembering what they are playing for and why they are playing.” 
The deadline to apply to enter the tournament is Oct. 30 at 5 p.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
NFL 

Cribbs developing as wide receiver 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio — Already one of the NFL’s elite return spe­cialists, Joshua Cribbs is developing into a bona fide wide receiver for the Browns. 
He’s got the size, the strength, the speed. 
All he’s lacking is the selfish­ness. 
Struggling through two games, Cleveland’s offense could use a spark, and the multitalented Cribbs, a former quarterback at Kent State, seems to be the logical choice to provide one. Trouble is, he needs the ball in his hands to make things happen, and for whatever reason, the Browns hardly gave it to him Sunday in a 16-14 loss to Kansas City. 
Cribbs refuses to beg Cleveland’s coaches for the ball. 
“I can only bribe the quar­terbacks,” he joked. 
However, the Browns’ offen­sive ineptitude is no laughing matter. 
With backup quarterback Seneca Wallace pressed into starting because of Jake Delhomme’s ankle injury, Cleveland gained just 55 yards in the second half against the Chiefs, whose defense finished 30th overall in the league last season. The Browns managed a mere three first downs after halftime, and one of those came courtesy of a penalty. 
On Monday, coach Eric Mangini lamented not using the wildcat formation with Cribbs at QB and Wallace split wide. The Browns ran it just once, with Cribbs picking up a yard on a run late in the sec­ond quarter. 
Cribbs was pleased to hear Mangini’s admission. 
“I agree and whenever they call my number, I’ll be ready,” Cribbs said. “At the same time, if we win that game, nobody is talking about Josh is not get­ting the football enough.” 
Cribbs had three catches for 74 yards, 65 coming on a TD pass from Wallace, who may have to start again in Baltimore on Sunday for Delhomme. The Chiefs also neutralized Cribbs on returns by kicking the ball high and short to Cleveland’s up backs. The strategy resulted in Cribbs getting one kickoff return for 19 yards and one punt return for 5. 
There wasn’t much Cribbs could do. He certainly wasn’t going to compound things by complaining. 
“As a leader, I’m not the guy who begs for the football,” he said. “I will let them coach. I’m sure they realize, ‘Hey, we got to get him the ball more.’ It will happen. There are cer­tain situations in the game where it’s not the right time for my number to be called and that’s just the way it is.” 
Cleveland may need to get creative against the Ravens’ fearsome defense, the only unit not to give up a touch­down this season. Complicating matters for the Browns is that running back Jerome Harrison missed prac­tice with a thigh injury, and wide receiver Brian Robiskie injured his hamstring during practice Wednesday. 
Cribbs can’t do it all, except that he may have to. 
He does give the Browns multiple options. They can put him at wide receiver, quarter­back, running back, in the slot or on the edge. The wildcat can be effective, but Wallace cautioned that it may not work against a defense has aggres­sive as Baltimore’s. 
“You have to pick and choose when you want to use it and utilize it,” he said. “Cribbs is a great athlete, so he’s going to make it happen whatever defense we’re against.” 
Baltimore, though, is a dif­ferent beast. 
The Ravens have forced their opponents to settle for field goals on all six trips inside the red zone. For Cleveland, which has yet to score in the second half this season, to score a touchdown, it may have to come on a big, long play. 
Cribbs believes the Browns have enough quality playmak­ers, and that the Browns only need to avoid the costly penal­ties and turnovers that sabo­taged scoring drives last week 
— and in the opener at Tampa Bay. 
“I think we’re OK,” Cribbs said. “If we just limit our mis­takes and make just one or two mistakes in each game, we’d be 2-0. We turned the ball over. We gave them 10 points on offense. For two weeks in a row, we’ve given their team 10 points. If we don’t do that, we’re 2-0 and no one is saying Cribbs needs the ball. We need to sharpen it up on offense and do our jobs.” 
Schedule 
continued from page 16 
work on different things and not have to worry about playing a dual match, ” Louderback said. 
Juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews will travel to Pacific Palisades, Calif. to participate in the All American. 
Later, the Irish will partic­ipate in the Midwest Regional Oct. 22-26 hosted by the University of Michigan. Winners and at-large bids will advance to the National Indoor Individual Championships at the U.S. Open Tennis Center Nov. 4-7. 
Concurrently, Notre Dame will play at the Illinois Blast in Champaign, Ill., Nov. 5-7. 
The fall season ends at the Sarasota Clay Courts Nov. 12-14. 
Essentially, the fall is preparation for a potentially grueling spring schedule. Although the veterans need this time to prepare as well, it is a crucial adaptation period for the freshmen. 
“We have a number of freshmen on this year ’s team,” Louderback said. “This fall is very important for development and them getting used to college ten­nis. Right now the freshmen are getting used to how we practice and the intensity every day.” 
When spring rolls around, the Irish will have some serious competition awaiting them. Eighteen of the 19 opponents Notre Dame faces are in the top 75 of the ITA rankings. They play five teams that finished in the top 10 last year, including No. 3 North Carolina and No. 4 Baylor. 

Depending on how the sea­son pans out for the Irish, their toughest stretch could make or break their season. 
“If we make the team indoor we could play six of the top 20 teams in two weeks,” Louderback said. 
Notre Dame will host the Big East Championships for the second consecutive year Apr. 28-May 1. 
“We are shooting for the Big East title and a shot at the NCAA Championships,” Louderback said. 
The NCAA Championships open the weekend of May 13-15 and conclude May 20­30 in Palo Alto, Calif., as Stanford plays host. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 23, 2010 
Smith 
continued from page 16 
good, so I should be able to play.” 
McCarthy also missed the Michigan State game with a hamstring injury, forcing senior Harrison Smith and sophomore Zeke Motta to play the entire game. Junior cornerback Robert Blanton also had to play safety in some packages. 
“The thing with McCarthy last week is we couldn ’t 



Laddish 
continued from page 16 
has played in all eight games this season. Tucker, a midfield­er from Jacksonville, Fla., was named Big East Rookie of the Week for the week after scor­ing three of Notre Dame’s four goals in their road wins over DePaul and Northwestern. Currently tied for the team lead with four goals, both Tucker and family here,” Laddish said. “Some teams you go in, and they’ll be intimidating and mean to you because they don’t want you to take their spot, but here they encourage you and want you to play with them and learn their game. On the field, age doesn’t matter. It’s who competes the most.” 

Morway, a defender from Lake Villa, Ill., has recently cracked the lineup and has started five games on the year as Hall tries to recov­er from 
Waldrum said  “On the feld, age  injury.  She  
p r e s e a s o n w o r k o u t s helped all of  doesn’t matter. It’s who competes the most”  registered 90 minutes in Notre Dame’s  
the Irish fresh­ 2-1 overtime  
men’s rapid assimilation to  Mandy Laddish Irish midfelder  loss to No. 11 UCLA and  

the college game. 
“Before the season started, we had about three weeks of preseason where we were practicing twice a day, so we really got a chance to see the veteran players, see their speed and how good they are, and if you can play against them, you can play against anyone in the country,” Tucker said. 
Laddish, a midfielder from Lee’s Summit, Mo., has started all eight games for the Irish this season and ranks second on the team with 715 minutes played, just one behind junior forward Melissa Henderson. Laddish said the veterans and coaches have helped the fresh­men make their quick adjust­ment to college soccer. 
“They welcome you like it’s a credits much 
of her fellow 
classmates’ 
success to the 

competitive atmosphere of the team. 
“They want you to get better by making them better, so it’s a really competitive atmos­phere, which helps,” Morway said. 
While the season is young, the three rookies hope to leave a lasting contribution on a memorable season. 
“I think as freshmen it would be cool if the three of us could contribute to winning a national championship for the first time in a few years, so that’d be a really cool thing to do in your first year at col­lege,” Morway said. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

practice him until Thursday,” Kelly said. “And he’s really been working at Harrison’s position more, so it ’s been hard for us to cross-train him and get him at both of those positions because he ’s been out so much. … That’s kind of how we got into a bind with all those guys having to play so much and not getting into a good rotation.” 
The added depth at the safety position will give the defense more options, Kelly said. Smith said it could also help all four players to focus. 
“Getting that depth back is something that’s really help­ful throughout the course of the game,” Smith said. “You get a little ding here or there and you can’t come off the field. So that ’s some ­thing where if you have some depth back there you can rotate guys and you can be playing guys with fresh legs the whole game. It really helps to stay locked in.” 
Slaughter, who was never removed from the top of the depth-chart, went in for a series against Michigan State when Motta’s helmet was broken, but he other­wise did not see action in the loss. 
“It’s rough watching a loss like that and not being able to contribute, ” he said. “Just thinking of plays you could have made. It hurts.” 


Smith said the defense as a whole is working to be more effective. 
“We’ve gotten better over­all, with the fundamentals and tackling and things like that,” he said. “But we’re definitely still not there. We want to disrupt the ball more, we want to take the ball away more. We’re still giving up explosive plays. We’ll stop them, stop them, stop them, and then we’ ll give one up. And that’s not what great defenses do.” 
To get there, he said, is more of a mental challenge than a physical one. 
“I wouldn’t say it’s playing hard on every play. It’s not like we ’re giving up on plays,” Smith said. “But it’s having that extra mental edge, that you have to lock in and know, ‘this could be the play that changes the game.’ ” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Thursday, September 23, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
 OROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, September 23, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Safety first 
Return of Slaughter, McCarthy will benefit injury-depleted Notre Dame secondary 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Members of the Irish sec­
ondary will get a much ­needed reprieve this week as junior safeties Jamoris Slaughter and Dan McCarthy are expected to play Saturday against Stanford, Irish coach Brian Kelly confirmed after prac­tice Wednesday. 
Slaughter, who sprained his ankle in the Sept. 4 win over Purdue, missed all of Notre Dame’s game against Michigan and played in just one series Saturday against Michigan State. He is expected to start Saturday. 

“The last couple weeks it’s just been a spot in my ankle that was just a lingering injury that just wouldn ’t heal up as fast as I thought it would,” Slaughter said. “But it’s been doing pretty COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer 
Junior safety Jamoris Slaughter tackles a Michigan State running back in a game last season. see SMITH/page 14 Slaughter will return to action this weekend after spraining his ankle against Purdue. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Schedule released for new season 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame released its 2010-11 schedule Tuesday and revealed what could be a difficult season for the Irish. 
“This year ’s schedule should be very challenging not only in terms of top teams but the number of ranked teams will test us every match,” Irish coach Jay Louderback. “It is very similar to our past sched­ules.” 
Play opens with the Eck Classic Oct. 1-3 at the Eck Tennis Center. Ohio State, Kansas, Miami (Ohio), Dayton and Akron will chal­lenge the hosting Irish. 
“We play all individual tournaments in the fall and it gives our team a chance to 
see SCHEDULE/page 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Charity event to raise funds through sport 
Irish ‘Lose the Shoes’ for AIDS awareness 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
For Irish coach Bobby Clark, teaching the game of soccer is a family affair. This is most evident through his son Tommy, a former soccer player at Dartmouth who founded Grassroot Soccer, an 
organization that looks to fight AIDS through the game of soccer. 
The cause will be celebrat­ed on Oct. 2 as Grassroot Soccer will stage its second annual Lose The Shoes ND tournament in the hopes of raising money for AIDS awareness. Although there have been nearly 100 Lose The Shoes tournaments held around the world, having a tournament at Notre Dame holds special meaning for Clark. 
“I’ve been very close to the cause for a long time,” Clark said. “It all goes back to when Tommy was around 13 or 14 and I took the family to Zimbabwe. He played with a number of African team­mates, and when he went back years later many of his 
t e a m m a t e s  h a d  d i e d  f r o m  
AIDS.  
“ I t  w a s  w h e n  h e  w a s  i n  

medical school that he came up with the idea for Grassroot Soccer, and now it’s pretty much his life.” 
The tournament, which will be held on South Quad from 1 to 4:30 p.m., features an elimination-style tourna­ment of 3-on-3 soccer with a $10 per person entry dona­tion. Students will play bare­foot, bringing the game back to its African roots and reminding the participants 
of the greater cause for which they are playing. 
Tournament director and Mendoza MBA candidate Molly Iarocci said she believes the popularity of soccer at Notre Dame trans­lates well to her project’s potential. 
“The Lose Your Shoes tour­nament has been the best way for Grassroot to unite the younger generation around this cause,” Iarocci, who played women’s soccer at Notre Dame from 2004­07, said. “Coach Clark sees the love of the game around campus, with the Rakes of Mallow at men ’s and women ’s soccer games. That’s what will propel this tournament to the next level.” 
The tournament is sup ­ported further by the men’s and women ’s soccer pro ­grams, who are allowing the semifinals to be played at halftime of the women ’s home match against St. John’s and the finals at half­time of the men ’s match 
see ALUMNI/page 13 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Freshmen rise to challenge 

By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
While a few key injured play­ers work their way back to full strength, No. 5 Notre Dame has benefited from a youth infusion that has helped them to another blistering start. 
During Notre Dame’s first eight games, freshmen Elizabeth Tucker, Mandy Laddish and Kecia Morway, have stepped up to fill the voids left by injuries to the likes of junior midfielder Courtney Barg and sophomore defender Jazmin Hall. Without their efforts, Irish coach Randy Waldrum said his team may not have gotten off to its strong start. 
“All three of those kids, the good thing about them is that they all come from good club systems and youth systems, which really prepared them well for the college game,” Waldrum said. “The difference is that those three freshmen came in physically read to play right from the beginning, almost from Day 1. All three of them have been key to where we are right now. I don’t know that we’d be 7-1 without those three.” 
The rookies know that one reason they’ve been thrown into fire so quickly is because of injuries, but they have not let the pressure of filling in for star teammates faze them. 
“I think we were asked to step up and take their roles since they’re gone, but we’re also playing naturally and playing our game and putting our skill on the field,” Laddish said. 
Each of the three freshmen 
see LADDISH/page 14 






