the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Gas leak evacuees gather in JACC 
Transpo brings 500 evacuated workers and residents from downtown South Bend to campus 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Around 500 people gath­ered in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center for shel­ter and assistance after a major gas leak caused the evacuation of many buildings in downtown South Bend Thursday. 
Thousands evacuated the downtown area, but no one was injured, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
The University made the fieldhouse side of the Joyce Center available to workers and residents who were dis­placed, University spokesman Dennis Brown said. 
Brown said 1st Source Bank, which has offices downtown, called the University and asked if their employees could come to Notre Dame’s campus. 
“[They said,] ‘We don’t want them hanging out on the streets, can we bring them up to the Joyce Center?’ We said, ‘Yes, by all means,’” Brown said. 
Transpo began transporting evacuees to the Joyce Center, where food, water, coffee, juice, Internet access and blankets for the elderly were provided. 
“Anyone who wanted to jump on a bus could come up to the Joyce Center and have a place to wait it out,” Brown said. 

Evacuees arrived at the Joyce Center around 9:30 or 10 a.m. and were “coming and going” for the next four hours, peaking around lunchtime, he said. 
Brown said evacuees need­ed a place to wait because they did not know when the leak would be capped and could not go home because much of the city was blocked off. 
“Wherever their cars may be parked, they couldn’t get to them,” he said. 

In addition to the evacua­tion of businesses and restaurants, low -income housing and assisted living complexes were also affect­ed. Many of these evacuees needed medical or wheel­chair assistance, Brown said. 
“We were really concerned about those folks in particu­lar,” he said. 
Various Notre Dame departments, such as Notre Dame Security Police and the Office of Information Technology, worked with downtown businesses and the American Red Cross to assist evacuees. 
“It is a great example of collaboration between the broader community,” Brown said. 
The leak, which occurred in the 100 block of West Jefferson Boulevard, was capped shortly after noon, the South Bend Tribune reported. 
Brown said the Joyce Center cleared out by around 2 p.m. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 




Subway executive discusses brand, ND 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Each afternoon, like clock­work, lines form in front of the Subway in the LaFortune Student Center as students wait to order their favorite subs. What most of those stu­dents do not realize is that the guy 
behind Subway’s global brand advertising, the guy behind $5 Footlongs, those television com­mercials with Jared Fogle and Subway ads with celebrities like Michael Phelps, is Notre Dame alum Tony Pace. 
Pace, a 1979 alumnus, is the Chief Marketing Executive of the Subway Franchisee Advertising Fund Trust. Since Pace joined Subway in 2006 and helped cre­ate a new digital marketing 

see PACE/page 6 



Experts analyze disordered eating 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
When a student approached Notre Dame psy­chology professor Alexandra Corning several years ago about writing a senior thesis on eating disorders, Corning said she knew very little about the topic. 
Now, she conducts research about eating disorders and teaches an undergraduate course titled “Understanding Eating Disorders.” While diagnosable eating disorders are a major concern, Corning said she focuses on the large number of people who strug­gle with symptoms, but do not have a diagnosable disor­der. 
“Even when you’re strug­gling sub-clinically, you’re struggling,” Corning said. “Our campus, even if you looked around and discov­ered, yes, full-blown, diag­nosable cases are rare … 


there’s lots of people who are struggling at a sub-clinical level.” 
One in three college-aged women has disordered eating habits, although only nearly 10 percent have a full-fledged eating disorder, according the University 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

Counseling Center and resources distributed on Notre Dame’s campus this week as part of Body Image and Eating Disorder Awareness Week, sponsored by the Gender Relations 
see DISORDER/page 7 




Travel alert affects students abroad 

By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
With the State Department’s recent release of a general travel alert for all Americans in Europe, Notre Dame’s Office of International Studies (OIS) took extra precautions to enhance awareness of the alert and to ensure the safety of its students studying or traveling abroad. 
The travel alert, released on Sunday, alerted U.S. citizens to the increased potential for terrorist attacks in Europe and recom­mended U.S. citizens take safety precautions when traveling abroad, particularly in public places like tourist sites and air­ports or while riding public trans­portation. 
The alert, a step below a formal “travel warning” which advises 
U.S. citizens to avoid traveling to particular places, was issued after an assessment of information that terrorist groups appeared to be plotting attacks on cities in Europe. 
There are presently 235 Notre Dame students studying in Europe, according to Kathleen Opel, director of OIS. 
OIS is in close contact with its students who are studying abroad and the program directors urged students to listen to the warnings of the State Department and adopt appropriate safety meas­ures. 
“The Office of International Studies has notified students in Europe of the State Department’s advisory,” Opel said. “We have advised them to follow the tips from the State Department and have provided them with various strategies to do so.” 
see ALERT/page 7 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Office works against domestic violence page 3  Interview with owner of The Mark page 14  Hockey season preview page 28  Viewpoint page 12 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Molly Madden Mike Gotimer 
Ashley Charnley Michael Todisco John Cameron Andrew Gastelum Caitlin Housley Scene 
Graphics Alex Kilpatrick Brandon Keelean Viewpoint Photo Madeline Roe Suzanna Pratt 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
THE HOT SEAT: ONE PERSON, FIVE QUESTIONS, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 

When did you start skating? Lavin: I started skating at the age of three. I got skates for Christmas and my dad took us out back on the lake and we started skating. 
Crosby or Ovechkin? Lavin: Sidney Crosby. 



What’s been your best hockey moment at Notre Dame? Joe Lavin Lavin: We played Michigan at home at the end of [last year]. 
senior 

defenseman That was a big thrill. It was a big hockey 
weekend for us, especially head­ing into the playoffs. It was a big win at home in front of a good crowd. 
Could LeBron James play hock­ey? Lavin: I don’t know. You put skates on that dude, he could do just about anything. 
Will you avenge the football loss and beat Michigan this year? Lavin: We will. We’re really confi­dent. We have a lot of confidence, but at the same time we’re staying pretty humble. I think we have a lot in the room. 


MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer Protesters displayed pink and blue flags and roses on South Quad all day Thursday. The flags represented the number of abortions that take place each year in America, and the roses showed support for the mothers. 
OFFBEAT 

Arizona woman confuses glue for eyedrops 
PHOENIX — An Arizona woman accidentally glued an eye shut when she mistook super glue for her eye drops. KSAZ-TV said Irmgard Holm of Glendale had cataract surgery a year ago. She was reaching for what she thought was one of her half-dozen eye drop med­ications. The burning sen­sation told her immedi­ately something was seri­ously wrong. 
Holm said the eye drops and the super glue bottles are nearly identical. 
After putting super glue in her eye, Holm says she tried washing it out. But the quick-drying sub ­


Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Chris Johns, president of Pacific Gas & Electric, will give a lecture today at 10:40 
a.m. The lecture is part of the Mendoza College of Business Boardroom InSights Executive Speaker Series. The lecture will take place in Jordan Auditorium. Students, faculty, staff and public are welcome to attend. 
The Center for Social Concerns and SIT Study Abroad along with the Ford Family program in Human Development Studies & Solidarity are asking for papers for a human develop­ment conference to be held on campus Feb. 11-12. All undergraduate and graduate students are invited to share their research experience. Deadline is Monday, Oct. 11. More information can be found on www.nd.edu/~hdc. 
Hypnotist Tom DeLuca will perform a free show tonight at 9 p.m. The show will take place in Washington Hall. Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students are wel­come to attend. 
Student Activities Board will sponsor the End Zone Carnival Saturday from 10 
p.m. until 2 a.m. Free cotton candy, popcorn and other snacks will be offered, as well as face painting and carnival games. Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross stu­dents are welcome to attend. 
The film Jules et Jim will be shown in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Sunday at 3 p.m. Cost for stu­dents is $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
monday tuesday 

stance did what it was supposed to and sealed her eye shut. 
Holm got to the hospital and staff cut off the hard­ened glue covering her eye. Once the eye was opened, doctors washed it out to prevent major dam­age. 
Police search for stolen hot dog stand 
ORANGEBURG, N.Y. — Police in a suburb north­west of New York City are searching for a stolen hot dog stand. Owner Fred Martucci told the Journal News that he’s devastated over the loss of “Fred’s Franks.” He used the 10­foot -long, 7-foot-wide stainless steel trailer to support his family in Orangeburg for more than a year. 
Orangetown Police Detective Sgt. George Garrecht said the hot dog heist happened on the evening of Sept. 30. 
Three men pulled into a parking lot, cut the trail­er’s locks and cables, hitched it to their pickup truck and drove north on Route 303. 
Police have viewed sur­veillance footage. But they have a limited description of the sus ­pects and vehicle, because it happened on a rainy night. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


Today Tonight Game day sunday 







Author investigates man behind sports phrase 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Pulitzer Prize nominated sports writer Jack Cavanuagh places the phrase “Win one for the Gipper” as one the most famous expressions in sports history, but he said not many people know about the man who uttered those famous words. 
“Everybody’s heard the expression, but hardly 
Cavanaugh 
anybody knows anything about the man behind it,” Cavanaugh said. 
The man, George Gipp, was a Notre Dame football player who died during his senior year in 1920. Notre Dame legend says Gipp said the phrase on his deathbed to coach Knute Rockne as a rallying cry for his teammates. 
Cavanaugh researched the two football icons for his new book, “The Gipper: George Gipp, Knute Rockne, and the Dramatic Rise of Notre Dame Football.” 
Cavanaugh will be at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore for signings Friday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. and Saturday from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 
Cavanaugh’s interest in the Gipper began as a young Notre Dame football fan. 
“Sometimes as a kid, I heard this mystical type of a person,” Cavanaugh said. “I wondered if he even existed, or he was just somebody who was made up because he seemed too good to be true as an athlete.” 
After tracking down some of Gipp’s former teammates for a Sports Illustrated story in 1991, Cavanaugh had enough materi­al to write a book on the former Notre Dame football player. 
“A couple of them even had roomed with him and gone to high school with him and then followed him to Notre Dame,” Cavanaugh said. “So they knew him very, very well.” 
Cavanaugh, an adjunct profes­sor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, said Ronald Reagan’s presiden­cy and his memorable portrayal of Gipp in the 1940 film “Knute Rockne All American” also inspired the book. 
“He loved that role,” Cavanaugh said of the former president. “If he wanted to get a bill through Congress, he’d say, ‘Let’s win one for the Gipper,’ the famous expression.” 
For Cavanaugh, the film failed to capture Gipp’s gambling and poor attendance at Notre Dame. 
“It was a very saintly portray­al of George Gipp,” he said. “It made George Gipp look like the All-American boy, just real nice, handsome guy, real good per­son, and he was hardly that.” 
In his book, Cavanaugh recounts how Gipp became the best pool player in South Bend. 
“He won a lot of money in col­lege gambling,” Cavanaugh said. “He wasn’t your typical scholar athlete.” 
On the field, however, team­mates recognized Gipp’s leader­ship. 
“Everybody, including his roommates, said he was cer­tainly dead honest when he was a player,” Cavanaugh said. “He went all out for Notre Dame.” 
Although Rockne had to con­vince him to try out for the foot­ball team, Gipp still holds University football records almost a century after his death. 
“He was so outstanding, and he never played football in high school,” Cavanaugh said. “That was one of the most remarkable parts of it all.” 
Researching the phrase that made Gipp iconic, Cavanaugh encountered a mixed reaction from Gipp’s teammates as to whether or not he ever spoke the words. 
One of those teammates, Hunk Anderson, went to high school with Gipp and roomed with him at Notre Dame. Anderson became the head coach of the Notre Dame football team after Rockne died in a plane crash in 1931. 
“He knew him as well as any­body, and when I talked with him, he doubted that Gipp would have said that,” Cavanaugh said. “He said that he was just not a sentimental guy.” 
The book is loaded with debate, but Cavanaugh also spent significant amount of time describing how Rockne and Gipp contributed to Notre Dame’s rise in national popular­ity. 
In a 1913 game against Army, Rockne caught the then-novel forward pass, contributing to Notre Dame’s victory and changing the coverage of Notre Dame football forever. 
“They upset Army in one of the biggest upsets in college football history,” Cavanaugh said. “All of a sudden all the New York papers are writing about this little, unknown Catholic school out West.” 
By the time Gipp played his last game, he had reached national acclaim. 
“Even the Northwestern fans were chanting for him to come out on the field because he was so famous at that point,” Cavanaugh said. 
Gipp was sick with what doc­tors at Saint Joseph’s Hospital later diagnosed as strep throat. Despite the illness, Gipp trav­eled with the team to Evanston, Illinois, for the Northwestern game because he wanted to play for alumni who had shown up for a “Gipp Day.” 
According to Cavanaugh, Rockne let Gipp play in the last quarter. 
“He went in the game and threw two passes, and they both were for touchdowns,” Cavanaugh said. “That was typi­cal Gipp, and the crowd went wild.” 
After that game, Gipp would-n’t live much longer. He died on Dec. 14, 1920. Thousands of Notre Dame students attended his funeral. 
“One of the biggest funerals at Notre Dame was after he died,” Cavanaugh said. “It was only topped by the Rockne funeral not too many years later.” 
Cavanaugh questioned whether the football program would produce a similar figure whose untimely death struck during the height of his popu­larity. 
“I doubt that’s ever going to happen again,” Cavanaugh said. 
During his 25 years at the New York Times, Cavanaugh covered Notre Dame football and basketball when the teams played on the East Coast. His research for the book brought him to the Archives Department in the Hesburgh Library last fall when he pored over Scholastics, books and newspaper micro­films. 
Cavanaugh will return to cam­pus this weekend and support the Fighting Irish at the Pittsburgh game. 
“Deep down, since I won’t be covering the game, in large measure because of the book and because I’ve learned so much about Notre Dame and having been out to the campus and coming back again, I’ll defi­nitely be rooting for Notre Dame.” 


Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 




Photo exhibit offers cultural insight on India 
and, in my opinion that is just ridiculous,” Kryk said. “But, it’s a different lifestyle there … one I have never considered.” 
The photos and their stories are meant to challenge viewers to face the reality that not all life stories have fairy tale end­ings. Kryk said this is not always a bad thing. 
“These stories made me real­ize that in today’s society in America, more people are con­cerned about what handbag they carry or what car they drive rather than the opportu­nities they have,” Kryk said, “People are so materialistic. Not every country gives the opportunities that ours does.” 
Crane and Kryk said the sto­ries that accompanied the pho­tos were powerful, but it was the images that made them real. 
“Looking at their faces … [they] completely encompassed their stories,” Kryk said. 
Crane agreed saying the pho­tographs gave the stories an element of reality. 
“The portraits give a person­al element to the plight of Indian women,” she said. 
Rajadhyasksha said she hopes students experience other insights when they visit the exhibit. 
“This exhibit presents a con­trasting image of India from the one that exists in the popular press of the country as an emerging market powerhouse,” she said. 
The exhibit is open to the public and will run through October 15th during regular library hours. 
Kryk said she would strongly encourage students and other community members to visit the exhibit. 
“I would definitely encourage more people to attend the exhibit,” she said. “It makes you realize that your bad day 
— maybe you got a bad grade on a test or something — isn’t as bad as someone else’s bad day. It makes you put things in perspective.” 

Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Bold black and white eyes greet visitors of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. These eyes belong to the subjects of pho­tographer Fazal Sheikh’s “Ladli: Beloved Daughter” photo exhibit, which senior Chelsea Crane described as “moving.” 
“The exhibit opened my eyes to a culture with which I am u n f a m i l i a r, ” Crane said. 
female feticide, dowry deaths, rape and torture, child labor and prostitution,” Rajadhyaksha said. 
As visitors walk through the exhibit, they are meant to experience the lives of the Indian women who are the sub­jects of the exhibit. Baby Sanjeeta is one of these sub­jects. 
Sanjeeta was left at an orphanage in hopes that some­one would find and raise her. As the photo captions informed 
the visitors, the 
orph anage 

Associate pro­fessor of busi­ness and eco- “This exhibit presents a contrasting image of  placed a woven wicker crib out­side its facilities  
nomics Ujvala  India from the one that  for parents to  
Rajadh yaksha helped viewers become cultur­ esists in the popular press of the country...”  come and deposit their children, such  
ally aware was  as the unwant­ 
one of the prime goals of the exhibit. “[The exhibit]  Ujvala Rajadhyaksha associate professor business  ed Sanjeeta. This exhibit said this was a much better  
attempts  to  alternative than  
raise conscious- the  typical  

ness about the plight of women action of leaving the infants in and young girls in India who a dumpster. live on the margins of Indian For senior Kate Kryk, the society,” Rajadhyaksha said. story of the subject Sonali was 
These women have fought most memorable. In her pic-hardship in a culture that is ture, only Sonali’s hands were predominantly male-oriented, seen. The captions said Sonali and the exhibit was meant to was left raped and bleeding by share their experiences. an unknown man who attacked 
“It profiles women who have her. According to the exhibit, survived against all odds and when the stories found her, documents their courage, they contacted her family only resilience and will to survive in to be told they had never heard the face of government apathy of Sonali. and social problems such as “Their parents disowned her 




SMC launches new awareness program 
By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
The Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO) is launching the National Green Dot program to raise awareness during October, 
At the training sessions, stu­dents will learn about sexual assault, stalking and relationship violence. 
“The training focuses on pro­viding a range of techniques stu­dents can use to intervene as 
bystanders, ” 
Adams said. 

“The Green Dot 
Domestic Violence According to Awareness Month. model emphasizes Adams, students 
The Green Dot will also learn var-
the importance of
program is a ious ways to 
understanding
national initiative approach violence that was developed personal because individu­at the University of als respond differ-
boundaries.” 
Kentucky. ently to violence. 
“The Green Dot “The Green Dot program focuses Connie Adams model emphasizes on violence pre-BAVO director the importance of 
vention by capital­izing on peer and cultural influence,” Connie Adams, director of BAVO, said. 
The program uses red dots to symbolize situations where vio­lence is present or tolerated. 
The goal of the initiative is to turn everywhere there is a red dot into a green one, Adams said. 
According to the University of Kentucky’s Violence Intervention and Prevention Center, “Green dots are choices, behaviors and attitudes which promote a vio­lence-free environment.” 
Throughout the fall, BAVO will be offering Green Dot training sessions. The first session is time is to be announced. 
understanding 
personal bound­aries and discovering intervention techniques which will be effective with individual limitations,” she said. 
Students interested in partici­pating can visit the BAVO office, located in the basement of Holy Cross Hall or call 574-284-4018 for more information. 
“While we cannot do every­thing, we can each do some­thing,” Adams said. “The Green Dot training helps participants to discover the potential things which can be done.” 

Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 





Pace 
continued from page 1 
team, develop new marketing opportunities on shows like “The Biggest Loser” and “Chuck” and bring the $5 Footlong deal to widespread success. 
Pace, a passionate Notre Dame fan who has a helmet signed by Joe Montana in his office, said he was disappointed that the Notre Dame Subway location does not offer $5 Footlongs. He does not believe students should have to go off campus to take advantage of the deal. 
“As a longstanding and gener­ous alum, I’m not very happy about [that.] I see ads in the Observer for Subways off-cam­pus [for] the $5 Footlongs. That makes me upset,” he said. 
Pace said his education at Notre Dame as a double major in the Program of Liberal Studies and economics, as well as his experience as Editor-in-Chief of The Observer, helped prepare him for a job in the business world. 
“The Observer was the tough­est job I ever had,” Pace said. “I was Editor-in-Chief of the Observer from March 1978 to March 1979. Before that, I was features Editor, and before that I covered interhall sports.” 
After graduating from Notre Dame, Pace went on to the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business, where he earned his Masters of Business Administration and was the editor of Business School Weekly. 
Pace said his background in journalism and the liberal arts helped him build the communi­cation skills necessary for a career in business. 
“I’m in marketing now, and the great thing about marketing is that a big piece of it is how you communicate — whether you write headlines, or lay out a paper, all that was fabulous training,” he said. 
Pace said under his leader­ship, Subway emphasized adver­tising on the Internet, specifical­ly on Facebook and Twitter sites of celebrities. 
“Obviously, everyone’s commu­nicating digitally now,” he said. “We are trying to use innovative techniques in [our advertising.] Whether its Michael Phelps, Michael Strahan, Nastia Liukin 
— all of those folks also have a presence in the digital [space] and social media.” 
Pace said Subway does not solely use the faces of celebrities to promote the brand. 
“Unlike many other brands, we don’t use celebrities, we use fans of Subway who happen to be famous,” Pace explained. “These guys and gals really do eat at Subway, so it’s natural for them to talk about the brand.” 
Pace said that sometimes, celebrities will tweet the sand­wich they’re ordering, just because they love Subway, and because they know “the [people at Subway] like it.” 
“Michael Strahan will go into a Subway and send out a tweet say ‘I’m having a Subway blank and blank sandwich,’” Pace said. “We just view it as another way to connect to our consumers. [Social media] advertising allows consumers to get as close to Subway as they want.” 
While digital media is an ever-expanding advertising platform, Pace said he has not lost focus 


Toxic factory waste reaches Danube River 
Associated Press 
KOLONTAR, Hungary — The toxic red sludge that burst out of a Hungarian factory's reservoir reached the mighty Danube on Thursday after wreaking havoc on smaller rivers and creeks, and downstream nations rushed to test their waters. 
The European Union and envi­ronmental officials both fear an environmental catastrophe affecting half a dozen nations if the red sludge, a waste product of making aluminum, contami­nates the Danube, Europe's sec-ond-longest river. 
Officials from Croatia, Serbia and Romania were taking river samples every few hours Thursday but hoping that the Danube's huge water volume would blunt the impact of the spill. 
The reservoir break Monday disgorged a toxic torrent through three villages and creeks that flow into waterways connected to the Danube. Creeks in Kolontar, the western Hungarian village closest to the spill site, were still swollen and ochre red days later and vil­lagers said they were devoid of fish. 
The red sludge reached the western branch of the Danube early Thursday and its broad, main stretch by noon, Hungarian rescue agency spokesman Tibor Dobson told the state MTI news agency. 
Dobson said the pH content of the red sludge entering the Danube had been reduced to the point where it was unlikely to cause further environmental damage. It had been tested ear­lier at a pH level of 13 and now was down under 10, and no dead fish had been spotted where the slurry was entering the Danube, he said. 
A neutral pH level for water is 7, with normal readings ranging from 6.5 to 8.5. Each pH num­ber is 10 times the previous level, so a pH of 13 is 1,000 times more alkaline than a pH of 10. 
on more traditional methods of advertising. 
“Television is still an extremely effective media form,” he said. “Without traditional advertising, the $5 Footlong Song would never have caught on that quick­ly. With television … you’re reaching 30 million people with a message.” 
Most recently, Pace has been working on an advertising cam­paign with the New York City Marathon, creating a sponsor­ship deal as “Official Training Partner” since Subway’s Jared Fogle will be participating in marathon. 
“So the thing that we just kicked off last weekend is mak­ing news of the fact that Jared’s running the New York City Marathon,” Pace said. “Jared lost all that weight by walking and eating Subway. Here we are 10 years later he’s running a marathon, so that’s a big deal. We have a TV commercial [on Jared] that actually just started running on Sunday.” 
Pace emphasized that all of Subway’s “Famous Fans” are celebrities who already liked to eat at Subway. 
“If I ask someone what their favorite sandwich is, and they say ‘uh…tuna?’ I know that per­son isn’t a real fan,” Pace explained. 
He said people often have a go-to Subway sandwich. He talked about Michael Phelps ordering turkey when he’s in training, but a meatball sub when he’s not. 
Pace said he personally likes to get creative with his Subway order. 
“My favorite Subway sandwich is actually not on the menu,” he said. “My favorite is what I refer to as ‘chicken and cheese.’ I want a single portion of cheese, half of it Swiss and half of it pro­volone. Put onions on before you toast it, so they’re cooked into the cheese. Then I want lettuce, tomato, cucumber, sometimes pickles or banana peppers, depending how I’m feeling, and a bit of mayo … usually on flat-bread, although I also do Italian once in awhile.” 


Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



tics in that area and was not working with students who 
“Students are paying due atten­

an entirely random sample, have eating disorders, 
tion to the travel alert and recom-


Disorder 
Alert 

the findings did show that Staples also meets with con-
mended precautions while pro-

continued from page 1 eating disorder symptoms cerned friends. 
continued from page 1 ceeding in a cautious, calm way 

are frequent on campus. “Every year, every semes­
with their academic studies, their 

There are three types of ter, I have people calling me 
Opel said she would tell Notre daily routines in London, and 

Center. eating disorders, Corning or coming in in groups to 
Dame students in Europe to their travel plans,” Kucich said. 

Statistics, however, are not said. They fall under the cat-consult about a friend who 
increase their awareness when in “Students are responding intelli­

always accurate because eat-egories of anorexia nervosa, they’re worried about,” 
specific locations or settings. gently and maturely to the travel 

ing disorders and related bulimia nervosa and not oth-Staples said. “When I’m con­
“Students need to be vigilant alert and are following all recom­

symptoms are often underre-erwise specified. Not all sulting with them about how 
and always be aware of their sur-mended precautions without dis­

ported, according to Valerie symptoms fit under these to help a friend, we spend a 
roundings,” she said. “They are rupting their travel plans.” 

Staples, staff clinician and categories, and some fit lot of time talking about not 
aware that they should not be Junior Alex Study, who is 

coordinator of eating disor-under all of them. For exam-only what they can say to 
attending political rallies or wear-abroad in London, is aware of the 

der services at the University ple, Corning said over-exer-their friend, but also about 
ing clothing that draws attention advisory and necessary precau-

Counseling Center. cising can be a symptom of what to expect.” 
to them as Americans.” tions. 

Eating disorders and body anorexia, but also a form of Students wanting to help a 
Students in the Notre Dame “The recent travel advisory has 

image issues are prevalent purging after binge eating friend, Staples said, must 
London Program were made well not significantly affected my fall 

for the college-aged popula-associated with bulimia. address specific concerns 
aware of the advisory. break thus far,” Study said. “I 

tion due to competition and Eating disorder symptoms about behaviors in a compas­
“The London program has have made travel plans and I 

comparison among students, are prevalent in both men sionate, nonjudgmental man-
reviewed the travel alert with stu-intend to keep those plans.” 

Staples said. and women in part because ner. 
dents both by email and verbally,” Study said most students are 

“Even if students on cam-popular culture provides con-“It’s not about finding the 
London program director Greg cautious but not allowing the advi­

pus think that they don’t stant reminders of a thin perfect words,” she said. “I 
Kucich said. “We are emphasizing sory to negatively affect their aca­

know somebody with an eat-ideal for women and a mus-don’t have tips on how to 
the alert’s precautions regarding demic and traveling experiences 

ing disorder, it’s very likely cular ideal for men, Corning make this an easy conversa­
vigilance, especially at transporta-while abroad. 

they do,” she said. “We have said. tion, but I think there really 
tion centers and large public gath-“Most people don’t seem to be 

a lot of members of our com-“And [college students isn’t a wrong way to tell 
erings.” taking any real precautions, but 

munity who are really strug-today] have grown up in a someone you’re worried 
Kuchich said the London some people are a little concerned 

gling and who are in a lot of culture where there’s more about them.” 
Program urged students to follow and will be trying to avoid public 

physical and emotional bombardment of these While realizing the preva­
the security procedures already transportation for a while,” he 

pain.” images,” she said. lence of disordered eating 
established by the program, said. “As for myself, I won’t be 

Corning said it is important Staples said she finds the and the difficultly of con-
which include always filling out taking any specific precautions, 

for students to understand amount of student energy fronting these issues can be 
electronic itinerary travel forms but will just exercise common 

that they are not alone in and participation in the event discouraging, Staples said 
and carrying the operational cell sense and be aware of my sur­

facing symptoms of eating this week to be extremely she finds hope in stories of 
phones provided by the London roundings.” 

disorders. A study she did in encouraging. One of the most recovery. 
program, as well as the emer-The Office of International 

2006 found that a great num-important aspects of Body “I think that there’s, for 
gency phone numbers. Studies will continue to work 

ber of female undergradu-Image and Eating Disorder some, a misconception that 
Both Kucich and Opel empha-closely with students and program 

ates at Notre Dame displayed Awareness Week is based on people can’t get better,” she 
sized that students should use directors in monitoring and com-

these symptoms. educating students about said. “And if I didn’t see peo­
common sense and listen to and municating the heightened threat. 

“Of the people who signed how they might help a friend ple get better, I don’t think I 
heed their instincts. “We are looking out for what is 

up for our study and were in with an eating disorder, she could keep doing this [job.] 
“Students seem to be taking this best for the students,” Opel said. 

it … 56.2 percent either had said. … It’s a long process of 
in stride,” Opel said. “Most “We want to make sure the loca­

a diagnosable eating disorder Of all the students who change, but people can over-
remember 9/11 and have grown tions are safe and we will contin­

or showed symptoms,” came to the University come an eating disorder and 
up and live in an environment ue to monitor information as it 

Corning said. “It means that Counseling Center last year, live very long, full lives with-
where travel vigilance is develops and reassess from 

if you think no one else is Staples said the Center’s out this consuming them.” 
required.” there.” 

struggling, you’re wrong.” annual report indicates that 
Kuchich said Notre Dame stu-

While she said the study 10.3 percent reported eating Contact Laura McCrystal at 
dents should even increase their Contact Casey Kenny at 

did not set out to find statis-concerns. Yet in addition to lmccryst@nd.edu 
awareness in their daily activities. ckenny@nd.edu 




Ind. money manager who crashed plane gets 10 years 
plea deal, four charges 

Associated Press 
against Schrenker were dis-

NOBLESVILLE, Ind. — A missed. judge Thursday ignored pleas Nation said he had such a for leniency from an Indiana hard time believing Schrenker money manager who conned wouldn’t spiral into the same friends into investing in a pattern of behavior again that fund that didn’t exist and he almost didn’t accept the tried to fake his death by plea agreement. parachuting out of a plane Schrenker estimated he still and crashing it when the owes investors about scheme started to unravel. $400,000, but Hamilton 
Hamilton Superior Court County Chief Deputy Judge Steven Nation sen-Prosecutor Jeff Wehmueller tenced Marcus Schrenker to said he faces millions of dol­10 years in prison, ignore lars in court-ordered judg­
“I had it all and I 
S c h r e n k e r ’s  claim s  t h a t  a  ments  when he is released  
lighter sentence  f r o m  p ris o n .  
would give him  W e h m u e l l e r  
enough time to  said it would be  
m a k e  t h i ng s  “  v i r t u a l l y  

right. impossible” for 
Schrenker threw it away.” Schrenker to will serve the pay back all the sentence con-money he owes. 
Marcus Schrenker 
secutively with Schrenker
investment manager 
a four-year fed-was an amateur eral prison daredevil pilot term he who used received for money he stole ditching his plane in January from investors to buy planes, 2009 and crashing it in luxury cars and a 10,000 ­Florida. square -foot home in an 
Schrenker, 39, told Nation upscale suburban he wanted to repay investors Indianapolis neighborhood and rebuild his relationship nicknamed “Cocktail Cove,” with the three children he’s where affluent boaters often seen only once since his socialized, prosecutors say. arrest. He said he has bipolar They say Schrenker bilked disorder and had got caught nine clients, including a friend in a downward spiral of stress of 10 years and his own aunt, after becoming addicted to out of a total of about $1.5 painkillers. million they thought they 
“I had it all and I threw it were investing in a foreign away,” he said as his currency fund that didn’t estranged wife, Michelle, exist. watch the proceedings quietly “I almost lost everything,” from the audience. one of those victims, Charles 
Schrenker pleaded guilty William Black, said in court last month to five securities Thursday. He told Schrenker fraud charges and agreed to he forgave him even though serve up to 10 years in prison he had betrayed their long-and pay more than $600,000 time friendship by stealing in restitution. As part of the about $15,000 in savings 



Hiking path gets European support 
millions of years ago when the 

Associated Press 
continental plates of North 

AUGUSTA, Maine — The America and Europe collided. North American leg of the The Appalachians were formed International Appalachian hik-in North America, and the ing trail got a major boost Caledonian and Atlas moun-Thursday as chapters in several tains were formed across the European countries endorsed ocean. the project, which promises to Greenland and Scotland become the world’s largest trail joined the IAT last year, and the network. IAT hopes to add Belgium, 
Trail clubs in Iceland, France, Spain, Portugal, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, the Morocco and Algeria next year. Netherlands, England, Ireland Anderson said the extension and Wales formally joined the will not require extensive con-International Appalachian Trail struction of new trails because during a meeting in Aviemore, in many places they already Scotland, IAT officials said. exist. Making them a part of the 
The IAT is an extension of the IAT, he said, will be a matter of Appalachian Trail, which identifying them with IAT mark-extends from northern Maine to ers. northern Georgia along the The IAT said that when the Appalachian Mountains. The trail is completed, it will IAT begins near Maine’s Mount become the largest trail net-Katahdin and extends through work in the world, with multi-eastern Canadian provinces. national membership on three Hikers can continue on the IAT continents. The organization by crossing the Atlantic Ocean said it sees the trail as a “fan­by boat or plane and picking it tastic opportunity” for outdoor up in Greenland and Iceland, adventure companies interested IAT officials said. in providing services in a mar­
“By joining, they (the interna-ket that’s home to 800 million tional chapters) will set up a people. trail in their territory,” IAT While many references call geologist Walter Anderson said. the Appalachian Trail the “Now we have jumped the longest continuous footpath in pond.” the world, a number of other 
The extended trail will follow planned or existing trails com-mountains that were formed pete for the title of longest. 

intended for Black’s children. 
Black said he hopes Schrenker can be a good father to his children, ages 15, 13 and 8, when he gets out of prison. 
Defense attorney P. Chadwick Hill argued that a long prison term for Schrenker would be punish­ment for his children and said his client had changed now that he was properly medicat­ed. 
“How big a chunk of Marcus do we want?” he asked. 
But Wehmueller questioned whether Schrenker was think­ing of his children’s well ­being when he parachuted out of his plane nearly two years ago. He said the things Schrenker blamed for his wrongdoing — his bipolar dis­order, addiction and stress — were all “circumstances that could come back.” 
The scheme began to unrav­el when the economy declined and some investors wanted to stash their money in safer investments, prosecutors say. His wife filed for divorce Dec. 30, 2008, a day before Indiana police seized comput­ers and financial documents during a search of his home and office. Days earlier, he lost a $533,000 judgment to an insurance company. 
Facing mounting legal prob­lems, Schrenker put his small plane on autopilot in January 2009 and jumped out with a parachute. He said he pointed the plane toward the Gulf of Mexico, but the plane ran out 
of fuel and crashed in the Florida Panhandle. 
Schrenker parachuted into Alabama and was found two days later at a Florida camp­ground, bleeding of a self-inflicted wrist slash. 
Indiana authorities had the assets of Schrenker and his estranged wife placed in a court-controlled receivership. 
Wehmueller said Schrenker would serve his time in an Indiana prison before finish­ing about three years remain­ing on his federal sentence. The judge suspended another 10 years of his sentence and ordered him to be placed on probation for four years after his release. 
As part of his probation, Schrenker cannot work in financial management and must seek counseling. 




Pep rallies undergo revisions 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
This fall has seen the imple­mentation of a multitude of changes to the format of pep rallies at Notre Dame, and while student participation fluctuated from week to week, student gov­ernment is overall pleased with the results. 
“I think that we definitely saw a positive response to the changes for the Michigan pep rally,” student body vice presi­dent Andrew Bell said. “The walkover seemed to be very suc­cessful, and we think it solved the issue of dorms standing amongst a bunch of alumni an hour before the rally.” 
Bell said the changes helped with logistics and the overall atmosphere of the rallies. 
“We thought the atmosphere of the Michigan rally was great. Attendance was high, we thought the fact the walkover included the band made it more exciting,” he said. “We recog­nize there were some issues especially as students were entering the section, and we’ve addressed those for the coming rally, so students won’t get clogged in.” 
Student body president Catherine Soler believes the pos­itive student feedback is evi­dence of the success of the changes. 
“We’ve heard positive feed­back because of the various dif­ferent locations we used for the rallies, and we’re really pleased with how athletics has worked with us and how students have responded,” she said. 
Bell believes the guest speak­ers have been central to the improved response from stu­dents. 
“I think the guest speaker mixes things up, so it’s not the same week to week,” he said. “So we are still working with athletics to continue to get prominent speakers.” 
Mike Oliver, Hall Presidents Council co-chair, thinks dorms have improved their display of school spirit in response to an incentive offered by head foot­ball coach Brian Kelly. 
“We’ve also provided the dorms with the incentive of whoever comes with the most spirit has the opportunity to have Brian Kelly come to the dorms, and it’s worked really well,” Oliver said. 
While the overall student response has been positive, Soler said she felt the student turnout at the student-only Boston College rally was lack­ing. 
“We were disappointed with participation in the Stepan rally, and we think it can be indicative of many things,” she said. “From a planning perspective, we really did all we could. It could have been the timing, maybe it wasn’t a good time for students,” she said. 
With the losing season, Soler recognizes that student govern­ment must work especially hard to encourage disheartened stu­dents to attend the rallies. 
“I think one of the things that has made a big difference this year, and hopefully will continue to ... is our emphasis on keeping them short and sweet and encourage dorm participation,” Soler said. “We want to brand the rallies as a time for students to get excited, have fun and socialize. We want it to be some­thing they can do for themselves as well as in support of the team.” 
Both Soler and Bell empha­sized the pep rally format as being a work-in-progress. 
“I think thus far we’ve been to all the locations possible and now we’re in the evaluation period, where we want to deter­mine the best location and for­mat in the eyes of the students,” Bell said. “We’re honing in on what students really want.” 
Soler said student government has already taken steps to solic­iting student advice on improv­ing the rallies for the remainder of the season. 
“Right now we’re just working to improve them, we’ll be send­ing out a student survey to get concrete data about what they liked about rallies and where we can improve them,” Soler said. 
Bell said the key to improving the pep rallies will be to concen­trate on the basics. 
“We’ve tried to make the emphasis from the beginning that pep rallies are best when focused on the student body and the football team.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



Chinese dissident hot bet for Nobel Prize 
Associated Press 
OSLO, Norway — Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo tops speculation for the Nobel Peace Prize — one betting site has already declared him the winner — though some experts expect a more low-key choice on Friday. 
Two women are also hot candidates in this year’s Nobel buzz: Afghan women’s rights activist Sima Samar and Russian human rights activist Svetlana Gannushkina. 
The last woman to win the coveted award was Wangari Maathai of Kenya in 2004. Of the 97 peace laureates to date, only 12 have been women. 
Liu, who was sentenced last Christmas Day to 11 years in prison for subversion, has received by far the most atten­tion in the annual guessing-game for the $1.5 million award. 
Irish bookmaker Paddy Power said it received so many bets on the 54-year-old literary critic it decided on an early payout, shelling out more than €5,000 in total to those who had put money on him by the end of Tuesday. 
“Obviously we’re taking a risk but it’s a calculated one. Over the past decade we have never experienced such strong betting support for any indi­vidual candidate and this leads us to believe that this year’s Nobel cat is well and truly out of the bag,” company spokesman Ken Robertson said in a statement. 
The nonvoting secretary of the Nobel committee Geir Lundestad called the decision “bizarre,” but declined to comment further on specula­tion surrounding the award. 
Norwegian analysts who fol­low the peace prize closely said they expect a winner with a lower profile, especially con­sidering the unusually strong criticism the award committee faced last year for honoring President Barack Obama. Critics said the award was premature, just nine months into his presidency. 
Rewarding Liu would be a major embarrassment to the Chinese government, which has warned the Nobel commit­tee that giving the prize to a Chinese dissident would harm relations between Norway and China. 
“I do not think (giving the Nobel to Liu) is likely due to the obvious political costs to Norway,” said Kristian Berg Harpviken, a prominent Nobel-watcher at the Peace Research Institute Oslo. 
He guessed the award would go to Samar, who heads the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission and formerly served as U.N. special investigator for Sudan. 




N.Y. seeks to ban sugary drinks from food stamps 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Using food stamps to buy sodas, teas, sports drinks and other sugar-sweetened beverages would not be allowed in New York City under a new government effort to battle obesity. 
Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Gov. David Paterson announced Thursday that they are seeking permission from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, which administers the nation’s food stamp pro­gram, to add sugary drinks to the list of prohibited goods for city residents receiving assis­tance. 
If approved, it would be the first time an item would be banned from the federal pro­gram based solely on nutrition­al value. 
Spending government money on “foods of little or no nutri­tional value not only contra­dicts the intent of the program, it also effectively subsidizes a serious public health epidem­ic,” New York officials wrote in their proposal. 
The idea has been suggested before, including in 2008 in Maine, where it drew criticism from advocates for the poor who argued it unfairly singled out low-income people and risked scaring off potential needy recipients. 
In 2004, the USDA rejected Minnesota’s plan to ban junk food, including soda and candy, from food stamp purchases, saying it would violate the Food Stamp Act’s definition of what is food and could create “confusion and embarrass­ment” at the register. 
New York City Health Commissioner Thomas Farley said he believes New York’s request has a better chance of being approved than the “skimpy” 2004 Minnesota pro­gram because it focuses only on beverages. 
He said it also has the advan­tage of being a temporary pro­gram with an evaluation plan to study its effectiveness. 
USDA spokesman Aaron Lavallee said Thursday the agency received the proposal and will consider it. 
The food stamp system, launched in the 1960s, serves some 40 million Americans per month and does not currently restrict any food item based on nutrition. 
Recipients can essentially buy any food for the household, although there are some limits on hot or prepared foods. Food stamps also cannot be used to buy alcohol, cigarettes or items such as pet food, vitamins or household goods. 
The ban would apply to any beverage that contains more than 10 calories per 8 ounces, except for milk products, milk substitutes like soy milk and rice milk, and fruit juices with­out added sugar. 
A 20-ounce sugar-sweetened drink can contain the equiva­lent of as many as 16 packets of sugar. 
Some New Yorkers who receive the assistance said offi­cials had good intentions but felt the proposal went too far. 
“I can see the sodas, but sup­pose somebody’s in bad shape and they just want juice?” said Harold Vilson, a 56-year-old Brooklyn resident who said he uses food stamps. 
“If people want to buy that stuff, they should be able to. If it’s not an illegal product, they should be able to buy what they want to buy.” 
The program would be tem­porary, so officials could study its effects over two years. It would apply only to food stamp recipients in New York City — 1.7 million of the city’s more than 8 million residents — and would not affect the amount of assistance they receive. 
“Sugar-sweetened drinks are not worth the cost to our health, and government shouldn’t be promoting or sub­sidizing them,” said Bloomberg, who also has out­lawed trans-fats in restaurant food and has forced chain restaurants to post calorie counts on menus. 
In fiscal year 2009, New Yorkers received $2.7 billion in food stamp benefits and spent $75 million to $135 million of that on sugary drinks, the city said. 
Officials said stores that par­ticipate in the food stamp pro­gram would be responsible for enforcing the ban. They acknowledged the possibility that food stamp users could travel outside city limits to buy the prohibited drinks. 
Advocates for the poor expressed alarm about the pro­posal, which the New York City Coalition Against Hunger said “punishes poor people for the supposed crime of being poor.” 
“It’s sending the message to low-income people that they are uniquely the only people in America who don’t know how to take care of their family,” said Joel Berg, the group’s executive director. “The prob­lem isn’t that they’re making poor choices, the problem is that they can’t afford nutritious food.” 
There still are many unhealthful products New Yorkers could purchase with food stamps, including potato chips, ice cream and candy. Officials said the proposal tar­gets sugary drinks because they are the largest contributor to obesity. 
More than half of adult New York City residents are over­weight or obese, along with nearly 40 percent of public school students in kindergarten through eighth grade. 
City officials said lower-income residents are most like­ly to drink one or more sugar-sweetened drinks a day; adult-onset diabetes is also twice as common among poor New Yorkers compared to the wealthiest. 
In New York, a proposal to adopt a penny-per-ounce tax on sweetened soda failed to get out of the state Legislature ear­lier this year; Bloomberg backed the state proposal. 


U.S. gay activists protest Mormon church remarks 
“We love you. You are beau-wrong — were difficult to I am the person I’m supposed young church members 

Associated Press 

tiful. You are perfect just the hear. to be.” wrestling with their sexuality, 
SALT LAKE CITY — Gay way you are,” he said, draw-“It makes you uncomfortable Packer’s message — heard Matotek said. rights activists staged a silent ing cheers. for people to come out. It by more than 20,000 in the “You know they will listen to protest Thursday outside the In a statement issued near makes you feel like less of a church conference center and him and believe that what headquarters of the Mormon the end of the rally, church person,” said Matotek, who millions more through world-they are doing is wrong,” she church in Salt Lake City in officials said they support the attended the protest with her wide television, radio and said. “I think it’s just wrong. response to a church leader’s right of groups to voice their girlfriend, 22-year-old Internet broadcasts — could He has power and I think he’s remarks that homosexuality is opinion in the public square. Jasmine Clark. “But, I feel like have far reaching affects on using it in the wrong way.” an immoral condition that can “Those familiar with the and should be overcome. Church’s doctrine on the 
The sermon by Boyd K. importance of marriage and Packer, president of the family know it is based on Quorum of the Twelve principles of respect and love Apostles, came Sunday during for all of God’s children,” the 180th semiannual general spokesman Scott Trotter said conference of The Church of in the statement. “We have Jesus Christ of Latter-day continually emphasized that Saints in Salt Lake City. there is no room in this dis-
In his remarks Packer said cussion for hatred or mistreat-some would argue that gays ment of anyone.” “were pre -set and cannot A similar statement was overcome what they feel are issued in the days following inborn tendencies toward the Packer’s speech, which also impure and unnatural. Not so! defended the faith’s stance Why would our Heavenly against gay marriage. Packer, Father do that to anyone?” 86, who is next in line for the 
Activists have called church’s presidency, said Packer’s remarks hurtful and those who tolerate or advocate say they ostracize gay church voting for same-sex marriage members and can lead some want to legalize immorality, to consider or attempt suicide. “as if a vote would somehow 
On Thursday night, activists alter the designs of God’s laws dressed in black to symbolize and nature.” the loss of young, gay The Human Rights Mormons to suicide, activists Campaign, the largest national lay head-to-toe on the side-civil rights organization for walks circling the church’s the lesbian, gay, transgender six-block downtown campus. community, has since called 
Police estimated the crowd for Packer to recant his “inac­at roughly 1,000, although curate and dangerous” com-organizer Eric Ethington, who ments. runs the blog PrideinUtah, In a news release, the group said event staff counted close noted that the American to 4,500 participants. Psychological Association and 
“We want to tell men like the American Psychiatric Boyd K. Packer that we are Association dispute the effica­tired of watching our children cy of reparative therapies that die. There are consequences attempt to alter a person’s to your words,” Ethington said sexual orientation and said a to the crowd to kick off the 2009 study in the medical event. “You cannot change us, journal Pediatrics found that we cannot change ourselves telling teens they can change and the more you try, the their orientation often more dead bodies you leave increases the likelihood of sui­behind. Stop.” cide. 
Ethington defended Packer’s Protest participant Elan right to express his opinion, Matotek, 26, was raised but say the church’s gay youth Mormon and said the mes-also need to hear a message of sages she heard in church — hope. that homosexual behavior is 



Foes of health care law lose key court ruling 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — A federal judge on Thursday upheld the authority of the federal gov­ernment to require everyone to have health insurance, dealing a setback to groups seeking to block the new national health care plan. 
The ruling came in a lawsuit filed in Michigan by a Christian legal group and four people who claimed lawmak­ers exceeded their power under the Constitution’s com­merce clause, which authoriz­es Congress to regulate trade. 
But Judge George Caram Steeh in Detroit said the man­date to get insurance by 2014 and the financial penalty for skipping coverage are legal. He said Congress was trying to lower the overall cost of insur­ance by requiring participa­tion. 
“Without the minimum cov­erage provision, there would be an incentive for some indi­viduals to wait to purchase health insurance until they needed care, knowing that insurance would be available at all times,” the judge said. 
“As a result, the most costly individuals would be in the insurance system and the least costly would be outside it,” Steeh said. “In turn, this would aggravate current problems with cost-shifting and lead to even higher pre­miums.” 

Julian Davis Mortenson, a University of Michigan law professor and former U.S. Supreme Court law clerk, said the decision affects only the parties in the lawsuit and is not binding on any other fed­eral judges hearing challenges to the law. 
Nonetheless, the Justice Department hailed Steeh’s opinion as the first time a “court has considered the merits of any challenge to this law.” 
“The court found that the minimum coverage provision of the statute was a reason­able means for Congress to take in reforming our health care system,” spokeswoman Tracy Schmaler said. “The department will continue to vigorously defend this law in ongoing litigation.” 
Robert Muise of the Thomas More Law Center in Ann Arbor, Mich., which filed the case, said he would take it to a federal appeals court in Cincinnati. 
The four individual plaintiffs said they do not have private insurance and object to being forced to buy it. They also fear that any financial penalty paid to the government would be used to pay for abortions. 


Governor scraps N.J. tunnel 




Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. — Gov. Chris Christie pulled the plug on a decades-in-the-making train tunnel connecting New Jersey and Manhattan, saying Thursday that New Jersey can’t afford to pay for cost overruns on the already under-construc­tion project. 
More than a half-billion dol­lars has been spent on the tun­nel, and construction began last year. The largest federal transportation project in the country, it was expected to dou­ble train traffic in and out of New York City during peak commute times once completed in 2018. 
But over the years, the cost for the tunnel also has nearly doubled. 
It started at $5 billion in 2005 and grew to $8.7 billion by 2008. In recent months, Federal Transit Administrator Peter Rogoff has made public statements that put the price tag between $9 billion and $10 billion. On Thursday, Christie said his advisers put the costs at $11 billion to $14 billion. 
“The bottom line is this, New Jersey has gone for too long and for too many decades ordering things that they can’t pay for,” Christie said at a news conference. “This project has some flaws to it, but in the end this is a financial decision. When weighing all the inter­ests, I simply cannot put the taxpayers of the state of New Jersey on what would be a never-ending hook.” 
A month ago, the Republican governor ordered a 30-day halt to all work on the tunnel over concerns that it would go over budget. On Thursday he direct­ed state transportation officials to explore other approaches to modernize and expand rail capacity into New York. 
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood’s spokeswoman indicated the project might not be dead. Olivia Alair said in an e-mailed statement that LaHood and Christie plan to meet Friday afternoon to “dis­cuss a path forward on the ARC tunnel project.” 
Proponents of the tunnel — dubbed Access to the Region’s Core, or ARC — assailed the Republican governor’s decision as shortsighted and wrong­headed. 
U.S. Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J., blasted Christie’s can­cellation of the project as “one of the biggest policy blunders in New Jersey’s history.” 
“Without increased trans­portation options into Manhattan, New Jersey’s econ­omy will eventually be crip­pled,” said Lautenberg, who held a news conference outside Newark’s Penn Station to criti­cize the decision. Lautenberg helped secure federal funding for the project. 
Lautenberg acknowledged that cost overruns on a project of the tunnel’s size were inevitable, but said Christie’s numbers are inflated. 
The federal government and Port Authority of New York and New Jersey had each pledged $3 billion to the tunnel. New Jersey had committed $2.7 bil­lion. The project is being run by NJ Transit. 
New Jersey Assemblyman John Wisniewski, who leads the Assembly transportation panel, accused Christie’s advisers of inflating the cost of building the tunnel to justify what they believe will be the governor’s decision and to divert the money to smaller road and rail projects. Christie has not said how he plans to use money. 
The independent Regional Plan Association said Christie was using fuzzy math. 
“Gov. Christie’s claim that he supports ARC but could not move forward because of budg­et overruns is most likely not true,” the group said in a state­ment. “The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) officially never released its estimates for potential budget overruns — only Gov. Christie estimates them to be in the $3 billion to $5 billion range. What’s more, Trenton has repeatedly rebuffed federal officials’ efforts to work out a cost over­run deal.” 
The project had been in the works for about 20 years. Currently, NJ Transit and Amtrak share a century-old two-track tunnel beneath the Hudson River. The new tunnel would add two more tracks, more than doubling the num­ber of NJ Transit trains that could pass under the river. 
Mark Nardolillo, CEO of tun­nel contractor BEM Systems in Chatum, said 10 to 15 employ­ees he has working on it will lose their jobs. 
“We don’t have alternate work to put these people on,” said Nardolillo, whose firm handled environmental permits and data management for property acquisition. “This is the one job you counted on. It’ll have a devastating impact on the region.” 
Commuters at New York’s Penn Station weren’t pleased to hear the project had been can­celed. 
“This is not good. I hope they reconsider,” said Michael Murphy, an IT and infrastruc­ture expert waiting for a train home to Morristown. But, he added, “if they have a problem with the budget, there’s not much choice.” 
Roy Gainsburg, a retired book publisher from South Orange, who still rides into the city occasionally, said commuter trains frequently get stuck in the tunnel. 
“It certainly would be nice if there was another tunnel, because this one has only two tracks, so trains get stuck at peak hours,” he said. 
Christie’s predecessor, Democratic Gov. Jon Corzine, broke ground on the tunnel in June 2009, a few months before the gubernatorial elec­tion that he lost to Christie. 
During his campaign last year, Christie supported the project. 
But as soon as he announced the work stoppage, lawmakers and transportation officials suggested Christie had planned to scrap the project and to use the state’s share of the money to pay for the nearly broke Transportation Trust Fund, which pays for local road proj­ects and rail repairs. 
Christie has refused to raise the state’s gas tax, which is among the lowest in the coun­try, to replenish the fund. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 12 Friday, October 8, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Hometown hunger 
As Notre Dame is a national universi­ty, students of this fine institution are not only very proud of our school, but of the region of the country they originate from. Students from Texas, Minnesota and fragrant New Jersey are particu-Sam Stryker larly strong repre­senting their region-News al pride. However, Production my personal favorite Editor exhibit of students staying true to their hometown is a rivalry of sorts — the underlying tension between students who hail from Chicago, New York and their respective suburbs. 
Chicago (the Windy City) and New York (the Big Apple) provide plenty of material for students to banter back and forth at one another. The argument is fueled by the overwhelming array of points that can be made. Better talk show hosts? Chicago has Oprah. New York has David Letterman. Better eccentric musical artist? New York has Lady Gaga. Chicago has Kanye West. Better skyscraper? New York has the Empire State Building, Chicago, the Sears Tower. There is Jerry Seinfeld, and then there is Second City. New York has the World Series, but Chicago has the Stanley Cup. It never ends. 
Even in my own house in the Connecticut suburbs of New York City, no winner can be declared. When I told my mom how it seems to bother Chicagoans when I refer to New York as “the city” because it is THE city, she responded, “Sam, some people just don’t understand that New York is the center of the universe.” Mom lived in Chicago for two years and always says if it weren’t for family, she would have stayed out in the Second City. She also likes to talk about how Chicago intro­duced her to Corona with Lime well before her New York friends. Chicago, if you’ve made Mom happy, you have done well. Yet her love of Broadway shows (in particular, Memphis) and family tugs her east. 
Having said all that, you may have noticed I have left out the biggest piece of the puzzle. This particular regional disagreement reared its ugly head a few weeks ago in The Observer offices, and stopped me in my tracks — what else but the raging question of which city produces the better style of pizza. 
I love food, and more than just the eating part. I love to make food. I love to read about food. I love to watch food on television. I like to take pictures of food, as anyone who has seen my Facebook knows. Food is more than sustenance to me — it is an art. Therefore, I consider myself a worthy judge of this pizza showdown, as my interest in the sancti­ty of the culinary arts far overrides any favoritism I may hold for “the city” (yes, Chicago, I said it). 
The thing is, I couldn’t come up with an answer. I just love both of these expressions of pizza brilliance too much. The argument here is null and void. 
So, Chicago, you can argue the merits of the Shedd Aquarium, Barack Obama and the Green River on Saint Patricks Day. New York will always have Central Park, Jay-Z and the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade. But please, for the sake of our stomachs, let’s all be able to enjoy a slice of both types of pizza in peace. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Eating disorders awareness week 
It is no secret that Notre Dame students are motivated and competitive and often strive for perfection. 
These are qualities that contribute to the success of so many Notre Dame alumni in their careers following college. Unfortunately, these same traits also seem to create an environment on campus that easily lends itself to the strug­gles of eating disorders. 
This week is Body Image and Eating Disorders Awareness Week on campus. Given the characteristics of Notre Dame’s student body, body image and eating disorders are especial­ly relevant issues in this community. 
Although it may not be characterized by the same visibili­ty and prevalence on campus as other weeks, 
such as the annual Energy Week, a week ded­icated to learning about body image is just as important. 
Because an eating disorder is such a per­sonal problem, it must be dealt with different­ly than other campus-wide initiatives. The 
sensitive nature of the topic makes it, per­haps, less visible and more difficult to address than other issues. 
Although students who personally suffer from eating dis­orders may find difficulty in stepping forward and attending the events offered, the most important and effective aspect of Body Image and Eating Disorders Awareness Week is its potential to spread awareness to the friends of those affect­ed. 
According to statistics provided to students this week by the University Counseling Center, one in three college-aged women has disordered eating habits, and 10 percent of col-lege-aged women have diagnosable eating disorders. 
A common misperception about eating disorders is that in order for a person to qualify as having a problem, they either do not eat at all, or follow their meals with bouts of self-induced vomiting. It also is a stereotype that the person must be extremely thin, and female. Flyers passed out around campus during this past week debunk these ideas; over one million men struggle with an eating disorder or disordered eating, and people with bulimia may be of nor­mal weight. 
Eating habits are not the only symptoms or manifestations of eating disorders. According to the University’s Office of Undergraduate Admissions, roughly 70 percent of current Notre Dame seniors were varsity athletes in high school, and this trend continues every year. 
Notre Dame students are proud of their reputation as a very active, athletic community. Exercise can also, however, become an excessive habit. The signs posted 

around Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, for example, warn students about the dangers of over-exercising. 
While the high-pressure, competitive and active environment at Notre Dame may exacer­bate the struggles of individuals dealing with 
eating disorders, other aspects of the Notre Dame community provide tremendous support and a great number of resources for individuals who struggle with dis­ordered eating. 
The University Counseling Center is equipped with resources for suffering individuals as well as concerned friends who want to know how they can make a difference. The dining halls and other campus eateries provide limitless healthy food choices. Posters with tips for eating right and staying healthy can be found all over campus. 
More uniquely, this community’s close-knit community and faith-based culture offers individuals support for cop­ing. Notre Dame is just like other top universities around the country in regard to the frequency of issues relating to body image and eating disorders. But this University also has the ability to use the positive and distinctive aspects of its culture to address these realities. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit a Letter

“We play the hands of cards lifegives us. And the worst hands can 
make us the best players.” to the Editor at 
Doc Searls www.ndsmcobserver.com 
American journalist and author 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Shut out all of your past exceptthat which will help you weather your tomorrows.” 
Sir William Osler British physician 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, October 8, 2010 page 13 
The excesses of free speech 
This week the Supreme Court opened its new session with a plunge into another complicated issue by hearing oral arguments Wednesday regarding a First Amendment case: Does free speech ever become so offensive that it loses protection under the Constitution? Albert Snyder of York, Penn., the father of a Marine killed in Iraq, peti­tioned the high Gary Caruso court to reinstate a $5 million judg-Capitol ment against the Com m ent

s 

Rev. Fred Phelps — a former lawyer disbarred for verbally abusing a witness on the stand — and other church members who picketed Snyder’s son's funeral. The protesters carried signs displaying "Thank God for Dead Soldiers," “Thank God for 9/11” and "God Hates Fags." At issue are the crudely offensive anti-gay protests at military funerals staged by members of Phelps’ Kansas-based Westboro Baptist Church. 
Snyder contends that he was harmed by the nonviolent protest. He notes that the demonstration not only tar­nished his son's funeral, but it is burned into his memory as his last day with his slain son, Lance Corporal Matthew Snyder, who died in a Humvee accident in 2006. However, Phelps and his followers did not argue that the Marine being buried was gay, but that war deaths in general are God's punishment of a nation that tol­erates homosexuality. In 1998, Phelps first came into the national spotlight when he protested the death of 21­year-old Wyoming student Matthew Sheppard who was hung on a wooden fence to die. Phelps brought signs that read “Matt in Hell” and “AIDS cures fags.” 
The Supreme Court will be asked to determine how far private entities such as cemeteries, universities and churches, can go to justify picket-free zones or buffers to silence or limit the speech of demonstrators. Staff for President George W. Bush routinely limited access to public events based solely on support of the president. In New York City, for example, the Secret Service set up protest zones blocks away from venues featuring high pro­file international officials with Bush. 
To touch a more immediate and per­sonal cord, one need only recall the disgustingly graphic demonstration on Notre Dame’s campus in protest of President Barack Obama’s commence­ment address. While hand gestures have been deemed a protected varia­tion of free speech, should smearing blood (real or simulated) and using props be protected? Should those anti­abortion protesters nearly two years ago at Notre Dame have a right to step onto University property and flagrant­ly flaunt a theatrically sensational demonstration? 
The Court may decide the limits, if any, of disruptive behavior in light of First Amendment protections. At my church in Washington, St. Matthew’s Cathedral, our monsignor banned a man from silently sitting in the front pew with a T-shirt displaying anti-pedophile and anti-Catholic priest slo­gans. While he was offensively looking to all who read his shirt — and espe­cially to us lectors who could see the shirt the entire mass— he made no verbal outbursts to disrupt services. May he return under the forthcoming ruling? 
The Westboro Baptist Church anti-gay demonstrators may eventually affect the school children of this nation with this case. The Supreme Court’s ruling may alter dress code standards for schools. Will a T-shirt with “Muck Fichigan” that may be considered cute in South Bend or a major city but offensive in Michigan or other more conservatively-minded Midwestern plains communities become emancipated under the rul­ing? 
The issue of freedom in this nation is one skewed by the eye of the beholder. Almost all of Phelp’s congregation members are his own family members who see a god of revenge. Many who call themselves “Christian” see a God of love, albeit in varying degrees regarding political stances. Therefore, some who espouse liberty today in our politically charged election cycle would prefer to use a gun to eliminate those whose thought of liberty is to let everyone live a life without limits of sexuality, religious restrictions or aggressions of war. 
Consequently, the issue of free speech will be determined by nine Americans who behold freedom in dif­ferent ways. Yet free speech is nearly an absolute, especially when it does not cause physical harm to others. Unfortunately, Phelps should win his case. However, it is our responsibility to remain mature and tolerant while leading with the steady hand of rea­son. If we do not, we hold ourselves hostage to fringe groups and give up the causes for which Corporal Snyder fought. We have always been grander than narrow zealousness. We are bet­ter than that right now. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The Rosary in honor of Our Mother 
I was very pleased to read Kate Barrett’s Faithpoint column on Oct. 7 recommending the Rosary on this Feast of the Rosary. When I first came to Notre Dame in 1984, we were still in the throes of the anti-piety campaigns of certain elite theological minds in the Church. Precisely because of the humble origins of the Rosary as Ms. Barrett described them, it was thought by some that these sorts of simple pious practices were in a way beneath the modern, enlightened, educated Catholic culture of the 20th century, or not befitting of the culture that Notre Dame ought to be working to transform and advance. 
I actually heard a homily in the Basilica Crypt on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception on how Mary would be embarrassed by the way we address her, and a homily in the Basilica itself against the piety of praying the Rosary. Neither homily, I am happy to say, was preached by a member of Holy Cross. But how ironic to hear this at a University that places itself under the patronage of Mary. 
Then in 1996 in that same Crypt, I attended a tragic funeral of a child who had died late in the womb of her mother. The Dominican priest who preached the homily spoke of how the events of our own lives are mirrored in the mysteries of the Rosary, and traced out on the beads, as we live lives in solidarity with Christ and stand at the foot of His cross. No childish piety there except for those who do not have eyes to see or ears to hear. It was a personal turning point for me in my appreciation of the Rosary, although I still struggle to say it regularly. And perhaps it also signified a general turning point in the social life of prayer here at Notre Dame as well, or better a movement of resourcement that had been taking place unnoticed, now fully in bloom in Ms. Barrett’s praise in the pages of The Observer. Well done. 
If I were to add anything to her fine column, it is that while it is true that the repetition of the Hail Mary can be meditative to the point that it can focus our attention on the mys­teries without conscious attention to the prayer, we ought not pass too quickly over the Hail Mary itself. Roman Catholics are often taken to task for not being sufficiently biblical­ly grounded, and our practice of praying to Mary is in many instances taken to confirm that judgment, as praise of her is taken to be a distraction from Christ. But just consider that other than the Our Father recited at the beginning of each decade, there is likely no regular set prayer of the Church more explicitly biblically grounded than the Hail Mary. 
The prayer is easily divided into three parts. “Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord is with you:” the salutation of Gabriel as reported in Scripture, to which we join our own praise of the Incarnation when we repeat it. Mary was humble at that salutation, not embarrassed. “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb:” the salutation of Elizabeth to her cousin as reported in Scripture, by which again we join ourselves in praising the one who will bear Christ for and to us. And finally, “Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death:” the invocation of Mary’s inter­cession. Of course that invocation isn’t simple scriptural quotation as the first two parts are. But it does have a biblical foundation, first in the guests at Cana approaching Mary with their request which she takes to her son, and second in Christ’s own gift of his moth­er to John at the foot of His cross, when He says, “Son, behold your mother.” John stands in for all of us at the foot of the cross of Christ, if we are willing. 
So it is not simply in the Mysteries of the Rosary that we are joined to the Incarnation, Death and Resurrection of Christ, but also when through the Hail Mary we pray that Notre Dame may become Our Mother. 
John O'Callaghan 
faculty 
Associate Professor of Philosophy 
Oct. 7 

Liberal shift This space? Right 
Is anyone besides me concerned about Notre coming decades. The professions, while impor­Dame’s apparent liberalism? And I’m not refer-tant, will not be able to sustain the prosperity ring to the Obama scandal, although that’s a good America has enjoyed over the years without a example. solid industrial base — a growing manufacturing 
here? 
I attended several events at Washington Hall base — and productive good paying jobs for work-and the DeBartolo Hall during our 50th Reunion. ing Americans. They were all very informative and well-present-Recently, I’ve been attending the Notre Dame ed. However, I was struck by the obvious liberal Forum via the internet. Again, the same impres-
Yeah.  It’s boring. 
bias of the programs and presenters. No one even sion. Notre Dame seems dominated by the liberal seemed bothered by it? And no one challenged perspective. At least that’s how I see it from my 
Fix it. any of it. pragmatic perch. For example, our class town hall meeting had Notre Dame, pray for your University! virtually no representation of business, industry, entrepreneurialism, capitalism, et cetera. Yet we Bill Pauwels know that the prosperity of our country and prob-alumnusWrite in a Letter to the Editor. 
ably Notre Dame will be highly dependent on Class of 1960 
Oct. 7

what happens to private industry during the 
The Observer 

Scene
page 14 Friday, October 8, 2010 

By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
Jonathan Lutz, a native Chicagoan, moved to South Bend with his wife seven years ago, and four years later opened up his flagship restaurant, Uptown Kitchen in Granger. Now, his latest venture, The Mark Dine & Tap, is the only locally owned business in Eddy Street Commons. With “high quality and fresh ingredients,” a stu­dent friendly to-go window and an upscale diner feel, Lutz is hoping it will be a stand out among South Bend eateries. 
CE: How is The Mark differ­ent from Uptown Kitchen? 
JL: I think that there are a lot of differences, actually. A couple of similarities that I hope people find in both restaurants is that they are first and foremost getting a very high quality, fresh tast­ing, delicious meal. I also hope they feel like they are getting a very friendly yet professional level of service that is being served in a real­ly unique and comfortable yet classy environment. But that’s pretty much where I would say the similarities end. It’s still what I would call upscale casual dining, but the look of the place is completely differ­ent. And the menu, although still based on high quality, fresh foods — we have over 400 fresh ingredients in our kitchen — the reality is that the menu is completely differ­ent than Uptown’s. 
CE: Why did you decide to 
open up in Eddy Street Commons? I’m sure you’re aware you’re the only locally owned business there. 
JL: I think it’s great. I wish there were more locally 
owned spots. I feel like there’s a lot of chains that can afford it, so I’m just tak­ing a chance because I feel like this place has a lot of potential. 
CE: Anything specific that made you want to open up at Eddy Street? 
JL: The day that I absolutely knew I wanted to come to Eddy Street was at the end of the basketball season a few seasons ago. I think we were playing Villanova. I told my family we were going to meet 
over at Legends at 5:30 before the 7:00 game, and we got there and Legends was absolutely packed and we could not get in. We walked out the door, and this was when Eddy Street was being built, and I looked across the street and I thought, “Hey, 
that would be a great spot to put a restau­rant.” 
CE: How would you describe the menu? 
JL: I kind of call it gourmet comfort food. We take some classic com­fort food and diner dishes and give it a little bit of a gourmet There’s a good variety of stuff, there’s some stuff on The Mark’s menu that, although high quality and fresh, maybe not so good for the waistline, 
still have plenty of healthy choices, and vegetarian and gluten free options as well. 
CE: Explain your To-Go window. Do you think it will especially appeal to students? 

JL: There [are] 260 -odd apartments around Eddy Street, plus there’s condo­miniums and town homes, so there’s all sorts of stuff around here, so I do believe that option will be well received. 
CE: What makes The Mark a great place to eat? 
JL: I think there’s a lot of things that make us stand out 
— for instance, we’re the only one that’s locally owned and operated — and I think that there’s a good mix of things to eat and drink at Eddy Street, but nothing quite like what we’re offering. It’s the fact that we’ re a nice sit ­down restaurant with a vari­ety of food that’s at a good location. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 



the only locally-owned busi-peanut chicken soba salad. from fried egg to avocado. Mark is also ideal for fami-By KATHERINE GREENSPON ness in the Commons. Lutz Many students have Saint Mary’s junior Shannon lies. Everyone has different Scene Writer owns Mishawaka -based expressed their love of the Whalen is a frequent visitor cravings and this menu can 
restaurant Uptown Kitchen as b u r g e r of The Mark and says, “the satisfy any mouth. The Mark 
The weekend has finally well as The Mark, so many of burgers are amazing and menu caters to a variety of arrived and you decide to pallets because they offer a stroll down to the newly-built variety of foods that anyone Eddy Street Commons with 
will find appetizing. Their friends in hopes of an early 
food is made fresh with quali­dinner out. South Bend’s 
ty ingredients and recipes sleek and trendy Eddy Street that you can truly tell when is located across the street you are eating the food. The from Notre Dame’s main flavors are amazing and entrance, a prime location for because the menu is so versa-those students with an eager tile it allows customers to appetite. You walk through revisit repeatedly. The food the doors of The Mark Dine & that is offered at The Mark is Tap and you are instantly food that can be eaten day taken in by the aroma of after day, so whether it is fresh ingredients, and the baked oatmeal for breakfast, smile of friendly servers. The a juicy burger for lunch or lavish bar is packed with peo-southern -style buttermilk ple enjoying a crisp beer and fried chicken with a side of good conversation. Waiting to sweet potato fries for dinner, be seated it is hard not to your taste buds will not leave notice the contemporary and unsatisfied. chic décor that drapes the The Mark opened in late restaurant’s walls and ceil-August, just in time for the ings. You are seated and students’ fall return and given a colorful menu with those busy crowded football anything and everything you weekends. Next time you go could imagine. With every-out for a meal head over to thing from mouth watering The Mark and treat yourself burgers to crisp and fresh and your family to one of salads, The Mark does not their wonderful delectable disappoint. dishes. 
Restaurateur Jonathan Lutz is the proud owner of The Contact Katherine Greenspon at Mark Dine & Tap, which is kgreen01@saintmarys.edu 



station which allows you to build the burger yourself. These all-steak burgers offer an endless list of toppings 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, October 8, 2010 page 15 

the London Gay Men’s Chorus  turing other talent, “Record  End)” featuring Wu-Tang Clan  features Alex Greenwald of  
By MAIJA GUSTIN  to ‘80s pop icons. The album  C o l lec t i o n”  f i n a l l y  g i v e s  rapper Ghostface Killah, does- Phantom Planet, the London  
Associate Scene Editor  i s  f ul l  o f  R o n s o n ’s  t y p i c a l  Ronson the chance to really  n ’t h o l d u p t h a t st a n d ar d.  Gay Men’s Chorus and  some  
brand of hipster dance floor  show off his musical chops.  Mark Ronson’s vocals pale in  gu y  n am ed  P h i l  o n  w h a t  
Guitarist/musician/produc­ music, featuring  an  assort- M o s t  n o ta b l y,  t h i s  a l b u m  c o m pa r i so n  t o  h i s  g u e s t  sounds like  a  really upbeat,  
er/hipster-socialite extraordi­ m e n t  o f  s yn t h e s i z e r s  a n d  marks the first time in a long  artists and the song lacks the  much lighter 50 Cent  or  T.I.  
naire Mark Ronson is back  o t he r  e l ec t r o n i c  t o o l s  a n d  time that he has done vocal  power and infectious flavor of  song. The chorus adds a real- 
with  a  new  album after his  eccentric instruments to sup- work for his songs. He’s not a  “Bang Bang Bang.” Ghostface  ly nice touch to the rap.  
critically acclaimed 2007 disc  p l em en t  t h e  m o r e  t yp i c a l  strong singer and is typically  Killah’s rap is definitely the  T h e  t i t l e  t r a ck  “ R e c o r d  
o f  c o ve r  s on g s , “ Ve r s i o n . ”  drums, guitars and vocals.  overshadowed by his guest  highlight.  C o l l e c tio n ”  u nf o rt u n a t e l y  
Under the  name  of his  new  R on s o n  i s  pe r h a p s  b es t  artists, but his incredible cre­ “ S o m e b o d y  t o  L o ve  M e ”  doesn’t do the album justice  
b a n d , Ma r k R o n s o n & T h e  known in the states  as  either  ativity and impressive ability  sounds like  a  nice ‘70s/’80s  and falls flat in comparison to  
B u s i n e s s  I n t l . ,  “R e c o r d  the brother of DJ Samantha  to craft really ingenious songs  hybrid throwback and  even  some of the other tracks.  
Collection” has entirely origi- Ronson and fashion designer  make up for any vocal mis­ features ‘80s pop icon Boy  “ B a n g B an g Ba n g ( C ou n t  
nal songs that feature Ronson,  Charlote Ronson  or  the  man  steps.  G e o r g e  o f  C u l t u r e  C lu b.  and Sinden Remix)” is a high- 
h i s  b a n d  a n d  a  s lo u g h  o f  behind hits songs from Amy  M os t  o f  t he  s o ng s  o n  Andrew Wyatt, of The Bird  light of the album and ups the  
assorted American and British  Winehouse, Lily Allen, Sean  “Record Collection” feature  and the Bee and Miike Snow,  ante on an already great song.  
musicians, from rappers to  P a u l ,  C h r i s t i n a  A g u i le r a ,  help from guest artists, usual- also contributes vocals to the  I t ’s e a sy  t o  l e t th e gu e s t  
Adele, Estelle and the  ly lesser known rappers  or  upbeat-yet-melancholy track.  artists  on  “Record Collection”  
Kaiser Chiefs. He has  musicians from other bands.  “You Gave Me Nothing” joins  overshadow the incredibly tal­ 
‘Record Collection’  also been responsible  It’s great to see Ronson work- A n d re w  Wy a t t  a n d  R o se  ented Ronson and his band.  
Mark Ronson & The  for introducing some of the most important  i n g w i t h s o m e u n d e r-t h e -r a da r t al e n t , a n d t he y a l l  E l i n or D ou g al l , a B r i t i s h singer-songwriter and mem- W h i l e he d o e s c o l l ec t a n impressive group of singers,  
Business Intl.  British artists of the last five years to the  breathe refreshing air into Ronson’s unique blend of elec­ ber of the Pipettes, together on vocals. Dougall is absolute- rappers and musicians to join him on this hipster-pop-elec- 
Label: Sony Music Entertainment  public and is a popu­ tro-pop-hip-hop music.  ly the star of this song, which  tronica album, it’s more a tes- 
UK Limited  lar cultural figure in the UK.  “Record Collection” opens with its first single, the uber­ a g a i n dr a w s o n Ro n s o n’s apparent love of the ‘80s.  tament to Ronson’s incredible talent as a musician and pro- 
Best Tracks: “Bang Bang Bang,”  Despite his success  c atch y “Ba ng B an g Ba ng .”  “Record Collection” is inter­ ducer than anything else. The  
“Somebody to Love Me,” “Circuit  produc ing for some very talented artists,  The song features vocals by A m e r i c a n h i p -h op a r t i st ,  spersed with some non-vocal numbers, like “The Colour of  album feels cohesive but dis­plays a great breadth of style  
Breaker,” “Introducing the  i t ’s  r e f r es h i ng  t o  me mb e r  o f  A  Tr i b e  C a l l ed  Cr u mar ”  a n d  “Ci r cu i t  to create an impressive collec- 
Business”  finally hear Ronson on some of h is own  Quest, Q-Tip and American electronica duo MNDR. The  Breaker,” that may get passed over in favor of the more con­ tion of songs ready for your next party, Urban Outfitters or  
original work. While  chorus is awesome and “Bang  ventional with-words songs.  maybe even a hip and swanky  
his last two albums,  Bang Bang” sets a great start- However, they deserve a lis­ club.  
“Here Come the Fuzz”  ing tone for the album.  ten, especially the awesome  
an d “ Ver s i o n ” ha ve  Unfortunately, the album’s  “Circuit Breaker.”  Contact Maija Gustin at  
been more about fea­ second song, “Lost It (In the  “Introducing the Business”  mgustin@nd.edu  


BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

MLB 

Rangers take home field advantage from Rays 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Gratified to finally be in the playoffs, Michael Young and the Texas Rangers are mak­ing the most of their opportu­nity. 
Young hit a three -run homer one pitch after keeping his at-bat alive with a disput­ed check-swing, helping C.J. Wilson and the AL West champions beat the Tampa Bay Rays 6-0 Thursday for a 2-0 lead in their division series. 
“I just think that we’ve had a great mentality these first two games,” Young said. “We’re not really thinking about some huge, grand pic­ture here. We empty the bank for the game we’re playing that day.” 
Texas is the only current major league franchise that’s never won a playoff series. After winning consecutive games on the road, that can change with one victory when the best -of -five matchup shifts to Rangers Ballpark this weekend. 
Game 3 is Saturday, with Matt Garza pitching for Tampa Bay against Colby Lewis. 
“Being up 2-0 is huge, espe­cially winning two on the road. But we still haven ’t accomplished anything yet,” Rangers manager Ron Washington said. “Our goal is to get as far as we possibly can, and we’re just going to take it back to Texas and come out and try to play as hard as we can again.” 
Ian Kinsler also homered for the Rangers, who are in the playoffs for the first time since 1999 and hadn’t won a postseason game in 14 years before Cliff Lee shut down the sputtering Rays in their home park on Wednesday. 
Wilson was equally impres­sive, allowing two hits in 6 2­3 innings. He gave up a single to leadoff man Jason Bartlett to start the game, then limit­ed the Rays to just three baserunners on an error, a walk and a hit batter over the next five innings. 
Willy Aybar doubled in the seventh for the second hit off the Texas starter, who departed with runners at sec­ond and third. Darren O’Day struck out pinch-hitter Matt Joyce, and Darren Oliver got four outs to finish the two-hitter before a sellout crowd of 35,535. 
Long known for fielding powerful lineups, the Rangers finally look as though they have the arms to match. 
“The story today was our pitching,” said Young, who lauded the “total team effort” that has Texas on the verge of making franchise history. 
Young’s first playoff hit was a massive homer. Before Wednesday, the six-time All-Star had played 1,508 career games without appearing in the postseason — the second-most among active players behind Randy Winn’s 1,717. 
“Mike is our backbone, ” Wilson said. “He’s our Derek Jeter or our Cal Ripken or whatever. That’s our guy. We rely on him for all sorts of stuff.” 
Young said he’s only inter­esting in winning. 
“For me personally, this personal stuff goes out the window. It’s always nice to contribute and nice to play well,” the third baseman said. “We’re competitors, we want to do our jobs well. But at the end of the day, the `W’ is what every team is searching for.” 
The Rays, whose .247 bat-ting average was the lowest for an AL club that made the postseason since the 1981 Oakland Athletics, were held to eight hits in two games at Tropicana Field, where they had one of the best home records in the league this season. 


Texas pitchers fanned 23 batters in two days, which is not surprising. Tampa Bay’s 1,292 strikeouts this season were the most by a major league team that reached the playoffs. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Wolverines-Spartans matchup takes center stage 
The 17th-ranked Spartans  Michigan State a win that is  would’ve been three-tenths  fourth quarter to win on Chad  
Associated Press  (5-0, 1-0 Big Ten) will travel to  perhaps the most famous, or  left,” Duckett said.  Henne’s TD pass to Mario  
play the 18th-ranked  infamous, snapshot that most  “Technically, there was time  Manningham. “And then you  
ANN ARBOR, Mich.—  Wolverines (5-0, 1-0) Saturday  people in Michigan can still see  left.”  come back.”  
Desmond Howard sighed, then  in the Big House, matching up  with their mind’s eye.  Former Michigan linebacker  Since then, more than 1,000  
answered the question.  as undefeated for the first time  Michigan State, with one  Larry Foote still doesn’t buy it.  days have passed without a  
How often is Howard asked  since 1999 and as ranked  time out left, started the win­ “Those refs cheated us out of  Michigan win against Michigan  
about the end of the 1990  teams for the first time in  ning drive at the Michigan 43  that game,” Foote said. “Even  State in football or men’s bas- 
Michigan State-Michigan game  seven years.  with 2:09 left.  before that clock guy cheated  ketball.  
in which he was tripped or  The bitter rivals have had  On a fourth-and-16 from the  us, the ref did by tossing the  Michigan State made quite a  
defended and then caught or  combined for some unforget­ 50, an incomplete pass turned  ball to the center before that  comeback in the 1995 game,  
dropped—depending on your  table moments the past two  into a first down for Michigan  last spike instead of spotting  going on an 11-play, 88-yard  
perspective—a 2-point conver­ decades, from Howard getting  State when cornerback Jeremy  the ball himself. I was so mad  drive capped by Tony Banks’  
sion attempt, allowing the  tangled up in the end zone to  LeSueur was called for a per- after that game, I threw my  25-yard pass to Nigea Carter  
Spartans to stun the top- the Wolverines losing a second  sonal foul for flagrantly mak­ helmet about 30 yards down  with 1:24 left for a 28-25 win  
ranked Wolverines 28-27?  straight game to the Spartans  ing contact with receiver  the field trying to hit those jok­ under then-coach Nick Saban.  
“It doesn’t come up until  last year for the first time since  Charles Rogers’ face mask.  ers when they were running off  “Even Nick got excited that  
Michigan plays Michigan  the 1960s.  Later, Smoker spiked the ball  the field.”  night,” Carter said. “When I  
State,” Howard said Thursday  In between, Michigan’s  with 17 seconds left, scram­ Michigan’s last win was  got to the sideline, he gave me  
in an interview with The  Charles Woodson made a jaw- bled for 2 yards to the 1 and  memorable because after Mike  a big bear hug. I’ll never forget  
Associated Press. “I don’t think  dropping, leaping one-handed  spiked the ball again with a  Hart helped the Wolverines to  it because that was the first  
people care about that game  interception on a pass intended  second left. Michigan’s coach- a comeback win in East  and only time Nick Saban ever  
outside the state of Michigan.”  for the front row in 1997 and  es, players and fans still  Lansing in 2007 he stung them  hugged me.”  
Within the borders of the  two years later Plaxico Burress  believe that tick was only on  with a jab during the postgame  The Spartans needed a con- 
mitten-shaped state, though, a  was so dominant even Tom  the clock because a man  news conference.  soling hug when Braylon  
ton of alums and thousands of  Brady couldn’t lead the  known as “Spartan Bob” was  “Sometimes, you get your lit- Edwards was done with them  
fans of both schools still talk  Wolverines to a comeback vic­ helping out the home team.  tle brother excited when you’re  in 2005, making a third TD  
about that stirring finish and  tory.  “I’ve talked to Spartan Bob  playing basketball—let them  catch in triple overtime to lift  
many of the other memorable  T.J. Duckett’s touchdown  about it and he said if college  get the lead,” Hart said after  Michigan to a 45-37 win after  
meetings on the football field  catch in 2001 with a disputed  football clocks had tenths of a  Michigan overcame a 10-point  trailing by 17 in the fourth  
over the past two decades.  second left, though, gave  second back then, there  deficit midway through the  quarter.  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
NOW RENTING  If you or someone you care about  Bizu: [referring to Gluant] And now  
FOR SALE  FOR RENT  2011-12 4BD/2BA HOUSES.  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit  he's pushing up the daisies. Inspector Jacques Clouseau: He is  
Notre Dame's website:  not 'pushing up the daisies,' he is  
Beautiful all brick ranch.  STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS  http://csap.nd.edu.  DEAD!  
IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  Bizu: [glares] It's an idiom!  
Close to ND. 3BR 2.5 BA.  New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi  574-876-6333  go it alone. Notre Dame has many  ———————————————  Inspector Jacques Clouseau: *You*,  
from ND, next to Taco Bell on  ———————————————  resources in place to assist you. If  sir, are the idiom.  
$124,900 make offer.  SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran­ you or someone you love needs  PINK PANTHER QUOTES:  ———————————————  
ite countertops, GE appliances  AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME  confidential support or assistance,  French journalist: Inspector, do you  
Integra Real Estate,  w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  Dialect Instructor: I would like to  know if the killer was a man or  
Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No  FOR RENT.  or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  buy a hamburger.  woman?  
Sue Scott  water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting.  For more information, visit ND's  Inspector Jacques Clouseau: Well  
Call JSK Development 574-387­ 1.5 miles from ND 574-876-6333  website at: http://pregnancysup- Inspector Jacques Clouseau: I  of course I know that! What else is  
574-220-3465  4466.  port@nd.edu.  would like to buy a "damburgen".  there? A kitten?  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look to break out of losing streak 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
In every level of sports, teams face adversity over the course of a long season. What separates the good teams from the bad teams is the ability to overcome the difficult parts of the season and be able to play well down the stretch, something that Saint Mary’s is trying to accomplish this weekend. 
The Belles (3 -13, 1-7 MIAA) will try to snap a seven -game losing streak this weekend when they face Beloit (9-9) and Albion (4­15, 0-8). 
Saint Mary ’s defeated Albion 3-0 in its conference opener four weeks ago, but since then, the Belles have dropped seven consecutive conference matches to fall to eighth in the standings. 
After a rough start, Belles head coach Toni Kuschel expects the team to begin playing better. 
“They key for us is to get better each time we step out 
onto the court together, ” Kuschel said. 
The Belles have an advan­tage in the match against the Britons that they do not have when they play Beloit, as they have already com­peted against Albion this season. 
Saint Mary ’s has had a tough time getting their offense going during their losing streak. They have been practicing to fix those problems this week, howev­er, and Kuschel expects it to pay off on Saturday. 
“We have emphasized run­ning a more consistent offense,” Kuschel said. 
The MIAA Tournament is less than four weeks away, so it is crucial in each match that the Belles continue to improve their game and win some matches in order to improve their seeding for the tournament. 
As the team comes down the stretch, their focus will shift so that they are ready for postseason play. 
“Our goal is to play at the highest level we are capable of,” Kuschel said. “We have seen everyone in our confer­ence now and we need to improve in all areas if we hope to have a better record the second time around.” 
Saint Mary’s faces Albion at 11 a.m. Saturday and will immediately follow with the match against Beloit at 1 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
squad. The Pirates, who 
Rutgers 
won just five games a year ago, have already surpassed 
continued from page 28 
their win total from 2009, 
entering the match against fielder Lauren Fowlkes ’ Notre Dame with six wins goal in the 84th minute. on the year. 
While the Scarlet Knights Waldrum said he believes may not be ranked in the that this Seton Hall squad is top-10 for this year’s match, dangerous because they 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum have displayed an uncanny still believes that they pose ability to play up or down to a potent threat for Notre their competition this sea-Dame. son. 
“Rutgers is still a very “They ’re very much good team,” Waldrum said. improved, no question “I think they about it, ” got off to alit-Waldrum tle bit of a said. “The rough start, “I would ask the su rpr is ing but you look thing with 
students that they
and they went them that ’s 
come out and support
on the road hard to fig ­
and played us.” ure out is Portland to [a they ’ve lost 2-1 loss], who’s some games 
Randy Waldrum 
No. 2 or 3 in that you’re a the country little sur ­
Irish coach 
depending on the poll. They’re going to be very, very good, and I don’t see them being much different than they were last year.” 
Rutgers has been ranked as high as No. 17 in the NSCAA poll this season. Redshirt freshman Jonelle Filigno leads the team with 11 points and redshirt soph­
omore goalkeeper Emmy Simpkins has posted a 0.73 goals against average between the pipes this year. Historically, the Scarlet Knights have only beaten the Irish once in twenty tries, while Notre Dame has beaten Rutgers 17 times. 
Before the Irish take on Rutgers, they will face a vastly improved Seton Hall prised they 
lost but then 
they beat some teams that you were shocked about — they beat Rutgers early in the year and there were a couple of games that caught your eye that you were really shocked that they actually got a win in.” 
The Irish are 15-1 all time against the Pirates with a 7­0 record in South Bend, where they ’ve outscored Seton Hall 38-2. Freshman forward Katie Ritter, a for­mer Big East Rookie of the Week winner, leads Seton Hall with six goals and 13 points while sophomore goalkeeper Jennifer Pettigrew has been solid between the posts with two shutouts and a 1.50 goals against average. 

This weekend’s matchups will provide the Notre Dame student body with their last chance to see one of the ­nation’s premier programs before the postseason begins. Waldrum stressed the importance of student attendance on his team’s performance. Recently, Waldrum has been critical of the students’ lack of sup­port for the team. 
“I would ask [the stu ­dents] that they come out and support us,” Waldrum said. “It’s really been disap­pointing to me, and I know the students have a lot on their plates with the aca­demics and all the different athletic events that go on, but it’s important that we get the support. When we go on the road, we’re play­ing in front of that team’s biggest crowd, and then when we get home, it’s like we can’t get our students in and get behind us for what­ever reason.” 
“The one time this year that I thought they came out in great force was that Santa Clara game early in the year, and we had the students behind the goals and the bagpipes playing, and it literally sends chills down your players’ spines,” Waldrum continued. “It’s like a 12th player, a 12th man.” 
Notre Dame kicks off against Seton Hall at 7 p.m. 
on Friday and 1 p.m. on Sunday against Rutgers in a game that will be nationally televised on ESPNU. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Team travels to compete in invitational event 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Lisle, Ill., today to compete in the Eagle Invitational hosted by Benedictine University. 
The Belles hope to build off the momentum they gained last week when they finished strong against a talented field at the Sean Earl Invitational in Chicago. The squad finished 28th in an event that featured many ranked Division I, Division II and NAIA opponents. 
Belles coach Jackie Bauters believes that the experience of competing against such strong competition will help give her team confidence for this week’s event and the rest of the sea­son. 
“I hope that what the team took away is that they can com­pete in any race and against all types of competition, even Division I schools. [This] is a great confidence boost,” Bauters said. 
The field at Benedictine will feature more local squads than the Sean Earl Invitational. Schools such as North Central, Illinois Central, Elmhurst, Beloit, Marian and Goshen typi­cally compete in the event. 
While many of the Belles’ events have been five kilome­ters this year, all of their remaining races will be six kilo­meters, beginning with the Eagle Invitational, which will provide a new challenge for the team. 
“This week we will work on improving our strategy for the 6k,” Bauters said. “We are 6k’s from here on out and need to get more confident in our abili­ty to sustain over that last kilo­meter.” 
Bauters said that the team practiced racing as a cohesive group as a focus for this week’s event. She stresses that this strategy will enable her team to succeed in the Eagle Invitational and the latter por­tion of the team’s season 
“We look to close gaps within our packs this week,” Bauters said. “Racing as a team will be really important at our champi­onship race at the end of the month, so we will work on using everyone’s strengths to have the whole group improve.” 
Bauters believes her senior leader, Kristy Kucharski, will excel at Benedectine. 
“I’m really looking for Kristy Kucharski to have her break out race this week,” she said. “She is ready to have her best performance yet and I hope to see it Friday.” 
The race begins at 3:30 p.m at Benedictine. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

MLB 

Yankees widen series lead 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Sure, the New York Yankees stumbled through September as Andy Pettitte tried to work his way back from a groin injury. 
After landing in the AL wild­card spot, the defending World Series champs look as though they had the Minnesota Twins right where they wanted ‘em. 
Pettitte turned in a vintage performance with seven smooth innings and Lance Berkman had two big hits in a 5-2 victory by the Yankees over their favorite postseason punching bag on Thursday evening for a 2-0 lead in the best-of-five divi­sion series. 
So much for Minnesota’s home-field advantage. The Yankees are hardly an under­dog when it comes to October. 
“Andy, when he gets in big sit­uations, he knows how to han­dle it,” New York manager Joe Girardi said. “He’s not going to try to make the perfect pitch. He’s going to stay aggressive and just try to do what he does. And I think a lot of that is just from experience.” 
Berkman hit a go-ahead home run in the fifth and a tiebreak­ing double in the seventh against Carl Pavano, sending the Twins to their 11th straight postseason loss. Eight of those have come against the Yankees, who trailed in each of those games. 
From the point of the Twins’ biggest lead in those games, the Yankees have outscored them 42-8. 
Mariano Rivera got three outs for his second save of the series, extending his postseason record to 41 and running his career total to 600, including 559 in the regular season. The road team has won all four games in the two AL playoff series. 
The Twins? They haven’t won a postseason game since 2004, matching the Philadelphia Phillies (1915-1976) for the sec-ond-longest streak in history behind the Boston Red Sox (1986-1995) and their 13th in a row. 
Berkman, yet another big-name veteran finding a place on a Yankees postseason roster, even on the downside of his career, made it 2-1 with his drive into the left-center bullpen in the fifth. His double in the seventh — one pitch after it appeared Pavano sneaked strike three past him — drove in Jorge Posada and gave the Yankees a 3-2 lead. 
“That’s why I wanted to come over here, just to get a chance to play in these games,” Berkman said. 
The disputed call by plate umpire Hunter Wendelstedt led to the ejection of Twins manag­er Ron Gardenhire following Berkman’s double, and Pavano soon exited before getting another out. He allowed 10 hits and four runs. 
Many fans proudly wore their pregame giveaways — fuzzy black stick-on replica mus­taches in honor of Pavano’s appearance. He started strong, but the Yankees were sure on the ball in the fourth — and they really got to him in the sev­enth. 
Derek Jeter chased his old teammate off the mound with a half-swing RBI single to make it 4-2. Curtis Granderson scored New York’s first run and came up with three more hits. And the Yankees headed back home for Game 3 on Saturday night with a commanding lead over the team they own in October. 
“We’ve got a big hill to climb. It’s not going to be easy, but it can be done,” Gardenhire said. “We’ve seen it done before, and this club is never going to quit.” 
Pettitte retired 12 in a row until Orlando Hudson’s homer tied it at 2 in the sixth. He need­ed only 88 pitches to finish seven innings, with five hits and two runs allowed. He walked one and struck out four, deftly escaping a couple of tricky spots. 
“I just think the biggest part of it is being able to control your emotions,” Pettitte said, point­ing to his “tunnel vision” in crit­ical situations. “Nothing’s going to faze you. Nothing’s going to make you nervous.” 
The old man, as Hudson respectfully referred to him the night before, broke a bunch of bats and was able to escape a bases-loaded, one-out situation in the second by allowing Danny Valencia’s only sacrifice fly. 
Pettitte spoke the day before about how, while he doesn’t change his approach, these October appearances simply feel different to him. As one of the Yankees’ famed Core Four, he sure would know. This was his 41st career postseason start and 19th win — both major league records. 
Pettitte strained his left groin muscle and missed two months until returning for three starts at the end of the regular season. His absence compounded con­cerns about the rotation, but after winning a so-so start by CC Sabathia in Game 1 and get­ting this vintage effort from Pettitte the Yankees don’t look as though they’ll be affected by any pitching problems. 
“I think all he had to do was get to October,” Granderson said. 
Before the game, Gardenhire acknowledged this was a “do­or-die” game for his team, which fell to 2-11 against the Yankees in four division series since 2003. The look changed — the Twins wore their 1961 throwback uniforms — but the plot didn’t. 
MLB 
Larsen congratulates Halladay on no-hitter 
things,” Larsen said. “I guess 
Associated Press 
if you work hard enough good 
NEW YORK — Don Larsen things are going to happen to was watching the news you and it did for me and Wednesday night when he Halladay. You have to appre­saw an item of particular ciate these things because you interest. never know what’s going to 
His most exclusive of clubs happen in the future.” had just picked up another Larsen, who turned 81 in member. August, and Halladay had 
Larsen saluted Roy almost identical numbers in Halladay on Thursday for their postseason gems. Larsen becoming the second pitcher struck out seven in New to throw a no-York’s 2-0 vic­hitter in the tory in Game postseason, 5, and 
“I guess if you work
telling The Halladay had Associated hard enough good eight K’s and Press in a things are going to one walk in teleph one his playoff 
happen to you and it
interview that debut against 
did for me and
he was happy Cincinnati. for the Halladay” The 54th Philadelphia anniversary of Phillies right-Larsen’s per-
Don Larsen 
hander. fect game is 
former MLB pitcher 
“Quite a this Friday. 
nice effort he had,” Larsen said. “You have to give him credit for that.” 
Halladay recorded his sec­ond no-hitter of the season in a 4-0 victory Wednesday against the Cincinnati Reds in Game 1 of the National League Division Series. The 2003 AL Cy Young Award winner threw a perfect game at Florida on May 29. 
Larsen tossed a perfect game for the New York Yankees in the 1956 World Series against the Brooklyn Dodgers, for more than five decades the only playoff no-hitter. 
“You work hard for certain “It was just 
a great day. I think about it every day,” Larsen said. “No one has to remind me what happened. I was just happy to be a part of it with the New York Yankees and against Brooklyn in the World Series, everybody was watching.” 
Both Halladay and Larsen heaped praise on their catch­ers. Halladay said Carlos Ruiz helped him get into a rhythm early and Larsen said Hall of Famer Yogi Berra played a key role in his masterpiece. 
“I couldn’t have done it without Yogi,” Larsen said. “He was a hell of a catcher. He deserves a lot of credit for it.” 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
NFL 
Moss excited to return 

Nebraska routs Wildcats 
to where career began 


Associated Press 
MANHATTAN, Kan. — Nebraska quarterback Taylor Martinez rushed for 242 yards and four touchdowns Thursday night and the sev­enth -ranked Cornhuskers ended a 99-year rivalry with Kansas State in the same lop­sided fashion it began, thrashing the slower, out ­manned Wildcats 48-13. 
Martinez, the redshirt freshman who has rushed for 737 yards in his first five games for the Huskers (5-0), also threw a 79-yard touch­down pass to Kyler Reed for a 38-6 lead in the third quarter. His rushing total broke Jammal Lord’s Nebraska record for a quarterback and his four rushing TDs tied the team quarterback mark. He was replaced by Cody Green with almost 10 minutes left in the game. 
Martinez finished 5 of 7 for 128 yards as the Huskers piled up 587 yards total offense in the Big 12 opener for both teams. 
Daniel Thomas. a senior running back who was aver­aging 157 yards a game for the Wildcats (4-1), was held to 63 yards on 22 carries. 
Kansas State did not have nearly enough quickness to keep up with Martinez and the Huskers. Roy Helu broke loose for a 68-yard TD run in a 21-point third quarter that made a rout of what could be the last game these two schools ever play. In a rous­ing start to their farewell Big 12 tour, the Huskers’ shortest touchdown play was 14 yards. 
I’m back home.” 
Wearing that familiar pur­ple No. 84 on his back, Moss practiced with the Vikings a day after he was acquired from the Patriots in a trade his new team hopes will get them right back in the Super Bowl conversation. 
“To all the Vikings fans that are coming to the Metrodome, pull your 84 jer­seys out, man,” Moss said. “I think this is going to be a fun ride.” 
With owners Zygi and Mark Wilf watching from the side­line, Moss caught passes from Brett Favre and talked to offensive coordinator Darrell Bevell as he prepares for Monday night’s road game against the New York Jets. 
“Who woulda ever thunk it?” Favre asked. 
Moss spent his first seven seasons in Minnesota, emerg­ing as the best deep threat in the league for one of the most potent offenses ever assem­bled. He was traded to Oakland in 2005 and spent the last three seasons with the Patriots before being dealt back to the Vikings on Wednesday. 
“The people that I meet on the regular outside the state of Minnesota, all they know is me being in the purple 84,” Moss said, adding later: “I still have a lot of love for the Minnesota Vikings, man. Just luckily I did get traded here. For what reasons, I still don’t know to this day. But I am back.” 
No matter where he has played — in college, with the Vikings after he slid down the draft board in 1998 or in New England after many thought he was washed up — Moss has always played his best with a chip on his shoulder. 
That’s what the Vikings are hoping to see again. 
“I think there’s always that,” coach Brad Childress said after the trade was announced. “The great thing about this business is you have to do it every week. For anybody that is saying any­thing bad about Randy Moss, he gets a chance to show them wrong. That’s never a bad motivator.” 
Moss became a star in col­lege, when he ended up at Marshall after off-the-field issues caused Notre Dame to rescind a scholarship offer. He had two brilliant seasons with the Thundering Herd, but he fell to the Vikings at No. 21 in the 1998 draft because of concerns about his character. 
Moss unleashed all that pent up frustration in his first season, scoring 17 touch­downs and averaging more than 19 yards per catch to help the Vikings reach the NFC title game. In his seven seasons with the Vikings, Moss caught 574 passes for 9,142 yards and 90 touch­downs. 
But the Vikings eventually grew tired of Moss’s occa­sionally petulant behavior, and shipped him to the Raiders in 2005. A few nag­ging injuries and Oakland’s struggles on the field com­bined to make his two years there largely unproductive. 
Associated Press 
To hear Randy Moss tell it, this week’s blockbuster trade that moved him from New England to Minnesota didn’t just bring him back to the place where he started his NFL career. 
The headline grabbing move wasn’t about Moss sim­ply coming back to a team that traded him five years ago. 
More important than any­thing for Moss, and thus for the Vikings, is that the star receiver feels like he is home. 
“I’m very fortunate to be back home where it all start­ed,” said Moss, the West Virginia native who referred to Minnesota as home seven times Thursday. “It’s been a hectic last 48 hours. I didn’t really know what to expect. 


Hockey 
continued from page 28 
hockey program needs. 
To put it lightly, last year did not go as planned. The Irish entered the season with legiti­mate national championship expectations but finished ninth in the CCHA and slinked out of the conference tournament in a first-round loss to Ohio State. 
But, as the cliché goes, last season is over, and most of the players on this Irish roster have no recollection of last year’s dis­appointments. Most of the fresh­men that will see ice time this season played on successful jun­iors teams. They’re conditioned to winning. 
Of course, the Irish will need their upperclassmen to con­tribute as well. Three of Notre Dame’s five leading scorers from last season are returning, and senior defenseman Joe Lavin will provide strong leadership on the blueline. It’s telling that Lavin, who only played in the spring semester last season after transferring, was a unanimous selection by his teammates to captain the Irish this season. 
For his part, Irish coach Jeff Jackson seems to have accurate­ly identified the problems, tacti­cally and mentally, that plagued Notre Dame last season. He’s talked in the off-season about a sense of entitlement that per­vaded the team, not completely shocking for a team that had been consistently ranked in the top five. 
Again, though, that’s exactly where Notre Dame’s youth could come in handy. There’s no sense of entitlement among these freshmen; they have no previous national championship game appearance to fall back on. Most of this team has a completely blank page, upon which they will write their Notre Dame legacy. 
Strategically, Jackson has talked about the need to instill more grit on his team. While Notre Dame certainly has a tal­ented roster, they’re probably still too inexperienced to beat teams on skill alone. Especially early in the season, Notre Dame is going to have to get comfort­able winning games 1-0 or 2-1. 
“Last year, I think we thought that we were going to be a really pretty team,” senior right wing Calle Ridderwall said. “I think a lot of guys thought we weren’t going to have to work hard or be gritty. I think we’ve established early in the season that we’re going to be a gritty team, a hardworking team.” 
Granted, everything is just talk at this point. A 5-3 exhibition win over the University of Guelph is nice, but Notre Dame will have to find its identity quickly against the big boys of college hockey. The Irish play national powers North Dakota, Michigan, Miami (Ohio) and either Boston University or Wisconsin before they even head home for Winter Break. 
It’s impossible to predict exactly how Notre Dame will fin­ish this season. The Irish are as talented as any team in the country and their coaching staff is second to none. A top four conference finish and an NCAA tournament berth are eminently achievable goals, even for a team with this many question marks. Of course, as we saw last season, that pendulum could swing in the other direction, too. 
The biggest challenge will be making sure this young team reacts well to adversity. It’s easy to envision an early loss snow­balling into a disappointing sea­son, which is what appeared to happen last year. These fresh­men, and the Notre Dame team as a whole, have a chance for redemption this season. 
They just need to be ready to make their mark on a fresh sheet of ice. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


SMC SWIMMING 
Belles to compete in relays to open season 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s heads into the 2010-11 season looking to improve upon last year’s last place finish in the MIAA. The Belles enter the fall under new leader­ship, as new head coach Mark Benishek was hired in September to lead the program. 
As an assistant director of RecSports at Notre Dame, Benishek oversees the day-to-day operations of the Rolfs Aquatic Center and the Rockne Memorial pool. He will continue to fulfill those duties while guiding a Belles swimming and diving squad that has established 40 new top five all-time Saint Mary’s performanc­es over the past two seasons. 
Benishek and his pupils will have their work cut out for them, as senior diver Laura Powell is the lone fourth-year on the youth-laden roster. 
The young Belles, however, will be bolstered by sophomore dis­tance swimmer Ellie Watson. The second year swimmer from Grand Rapids, Mich., was the lone Saint Mary’s representative on the All-MIAA swimming and diving team as a freshman and made the league championship final in each of her events. 
The Belles kick off their season at the Dennis Stark Relays, which pays homage to coach Dennis Stark, the Irish men’s swimming and diving coach from 1958-85. Saint Mary’s will compete along­side D-1 opponents Illinois State, Valparaiso and Notre Dame. Races are set to begin at 5 p.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 



Jackson 
continued from page 28 
son in the Joyce Center, how­ever, the Irish will be sporting somewhat of a younger look. Normally, Notre Dame has relied heavily on its seniors to provide leadership for a fresh­man class that played an important but limited role in the team’s development. This year, however, with only five seniors on the roster, com-example,” he said. “When you come from juniors to college, it’s a way different game. It’s way more professional.” 
Jackson said he understands that his young squad will grow from game experience, but expects that the leadership ability of the seniors will help mitigate some of the errors that might come with a less-cohesive team. 
“It’s still a work in progress, and it will be, probably, for the first month,” he said. “The upperclassmen have done a 

pared to 12 “If you’re a leader, good job incor­
first-years, the porating the 
you’re a leader no
Irish will have young kids, and 
to rely much matter what level you this group is more on the are.” really good at entire team for buying into what production and our culture is.” 
Joe Lavin 
leadership. Despite their “If you’re a Irish captain youth, Notre 
leader, you’re a leader, no mat­ter what level you are,” senior captain and defenseman Joe Lavin said. “I just think we need to stick together.” 
Senior alternate captain Calle Ridderwall is excited by the opportunity to shape a young squad, as he under­stands that the transition to the collegiate game can be dif­ficult at times. 
“I’m really excited to teach these guys how to do things around here and to lead by Dame has not 
revised its expectations for the season — only its mentality. 
“They’re the same goals we’ve always had. We want to get to the Frozen Four,” Ridderwall said. “We’re an underdog this year. We’re going to be a gritty team, a hardworking team.” 
The Irish will kick off their season with a challenge unlike any other, as they travel to St. Louis for the Warrior College Hockey Ice Breaker Tournament. On Friday, Notre 


MEN’S SWIMMING
Dame will face Holy Cross at 
6:30 p.m., followed by a matchup between traditional powers No. 14 Boston University and No. 13 
Irish open season at Wisconsin. The losers of Friday’s games will play for third place at 1 p.m. Sunday, 
Dennis Stark Relays 
while the winners will meet at 
4 p.m. for the championship. The season-opening clash will provide Notre Dame with a sense of their identity, which Ridderwall sees as a positive thing. 
“We’re going to find out who we are this weekend,” he said. “It’s good to play some tough teams in the beginning. 
Lavin concurred with his teammate. 
“I think it’s good to be play­ing the top-ranked teams,” he said. “Every team is going to face adversity, and it’s the really, really good teams that respond well to that adversity.” 
The adversity will only keep coming, especially in the month of November, when the Irish will take trips to Michigan and North Dakota and will host Michigan State. 
“It’s going to be a trial under fire, especially the month of November,” Jackson said. “That is a nightmare sched­ule.” 
Learning from adversity will be the key for the Irish in this pivotal season as they work to incorporate a new batch of freshmen into the program. 
“If it doesn’t kill you, it makes you stronger,” Jackson said. “Those are the kind of 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame kicks off its season Friday with the 46th annual Dennis Stark Relays against Oakland University and Valparaiso University. 
The Irish will have to con­tend with the Grizzlies’ strong young swimmers. Oakland sophomores Alex Aceino, Tobias Hansen and Nick Evans each won two events at the Grizzlies’ Black/Gold meet last week. 
The Crusaders opened their 2010-11 season on Sunday by losing all three ends of a triangular meet against Saint Louis, Evansville, and IUPUI. Valparaiso senior David Sivak will compete in Friday’s meet after leading the Crusaders with two vic­tories in Sunday’s meet. He had wins in the 50-yard freestyle and 200-yard but­terfly. 
The Irish have high expec­tations this year and senior captain Mike Sullivan says they hope to started up.” 
Sullivan puts the team’s goals first, but said he does have some individual goals he wants to accomplish before his Irish career ends. 
“In terms of individual goals for this season, I just want to get faster and hope­fully push my teammates to do the same,” Sullivan said. “With this likely being my last year of swimming, I have to put all of my effort in so that there are no regrets at the end of the year.” 
Sullivan also credits Irish coach Tim Welsh for getting the team in the proper mindset to start the season. 
“[Coach Welsh] always does a great job of setting a tone at the beginning of the year and reminding us of that tone in order to keep everyone focused,” Sullivan said. “This year, he has given us the theme ‘more than one year’s improve­ment in one year,’ with the plan that if we can make a bigger stride this year than in years past, 


as well as send some swimmers and divers to score at the NCAA Championship meet,” Sullivan said. “I hope to be one of those swimmers, and I know there are a lot of guys in the same boat who will definitely get there by putting in hard work all year long. And it goes without saying that I’d love for our team to rewrite our record board this season in the process.” 
As the season approaches, Sullivan thinks the presea­son training has helped the team grow closer and has them headed in the right direction. 
“Preseason workouts were pretty fun this year. We did a set of captains’ practices that really came from the whole senior class, with a lot of guys contributing sets,” Sullivan said. “We tried to do some stuff that was hard, but also fun so that guys would be excited about starting the season up again. We also did some stuff with our strength coach that would help get us stronger before the season environments that make you 
make a “As far as the team we will reach stronger.” 
splash on our goals and 
goes, we hope to
both the Big send guys to The Irish participate in the 
East and regain the Big East score at the 
Ice Breaker Tournament this weekend and then kick off 
national championship title as NCAA meet. In their home schedule on Oct. 15 
stages. terms of get-
well as send some
“As far as ting us ready against Lake Superior State. 
swimmers and divers
the team physically, he goes, we to score at the NCAA does a good job 
Contact Allan Joseph at 
hope to of giving us 
chamionship meet.” 
ajoseph2@nd.edu 
regain the hard workouts Big East early in order 
Tim Welsh 
champi-to get us back onship title Irish coach into shape fast. 
By jumping 
right into those 
workouts, we spend less time getting into shape and more time improving, which is the ulti­mate goal.” 
The Irish have no shortage of motivation this year, as last year’s loss to Louisville at the Big East Championships still haunts Notre Dame. 
“I honestly expect the whole team to have a great year this year,” Sullivan said. “I think coming off of a tough loss to Louisville at the Big East meet last year really stuck with people, and there’s not a guy on the team who wants to see that happen again. I think we are all extremely motivated and that is going to lead to some special swims for our team. With the senior leadership that we have and the talent we have up and down the roster, this will definitely be a great year for our team.” 
The Dennis Stark Relays begin at 5 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


MLB 

Lincecum lights out in Giants playoff opener 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — The Freak really showed up for San Francisco on his biggest stage yet. 
Tim Lincecum pitched a two-hitter and struck out 14 in a dominating postseason debut, and the Giants scored their only run after a questionable umpir­ing call to beat the Atlanta Braves 1-0 in Game 1 of their NL division series Thursday night. 
“As far shutouts go I think that was up there with my better ones,” said Lincecum, who pitched on seven days’ rest. “I was pretty anxious to get out there a couple days ago. You just have to deal with those extra days.” 
The two-time NL Cy Young winner pitched a gem, a day after Philadelphia’s Roy Halladay threw only the second no-hitter in postseason history in his first playoff game. Lincecum outdueled playoff vet­eran Derek Lowe and caught a break, too. 
Cody Ross singled in the only run Lincecum needed in the fourth after Buster Posey was called safe by umpire Paul Emmel on a steal of second. 
“I guess it’s a good thing we don’t have instant replay right now,” Posey said. “It was a beautiful slide, wasn’t it?” 
It was the first career steal for Posey, even though he appeared to be tagged out by Brooks Conrad on the play — retiring Braves manager Bobby Cox, the all-time leader in ejections, did not argue. 
“I haven’t seen it,” Cox said. “Some of the guys came down after that inning and said he was out by six, eight inches. From the dugout you can’t see anything.” 
Lincecum struck out Derrek Lee for the third time to end the 119-pitch masterpiece in 2 hours, 26 minutes. He became just the 12th pitcher with 14 or more strikeouts in a postseason game. 
“That’s one of the best efforts I’ve ever seen,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. “What a great job that kid did. He’s tough.” 
In a postseason already filled with plenty of stellar pitching, this was the first 1-0 game in the postseason since 2005, when the Chicago White Sox finished off a World Series sweep over Houston. 
Game 2 of this best-of-five series is Friday night, with 13­game winner Matt Cain going for the Giants against Tommy Hanson. 
Lincecum’s only other com­plete game this season came in a six-hit shutout of the New York Mets on July 15. He threw all his pitches effectively, from his off-speed stuff to his power fastball. 
“It kind of progressed as it did. All the pitches were working,” Lincecum said. “It just felt like things were in place.” 
Lincecum carried the momen­tum from a strong final month right into October. His strikeouts set a franchise record for a post­season game — his eighth time with 10 or more Ks this year and 27th of his career. 
“He was lights out,” Cox said. “We had two runners at second base all night and that’s it.” 
Lowe, who won his last five regular-season starts with a 
1.17 ERA over that stretch, allowed one run on four hits in 5 1/3 innings, struck out six and walked four. 
Lincecum, still hitting 91 mph on the radar gun in the ninth, became the first pitcher to record 12 strikeouts or more in the playoffs since Roger Clemens had 15 for the New York Yankees against Seattle in the 2000 AL championship series. 
Lowe was done after giving up Posey’s double and a walk in the sixth. That delighted the orange towel-waving sellout crowd of 43,936 at AT&T Park, which drew the largest attendance for a postseason game in the ball­park’s 11-year history. 
Ross delivered in the fourth after Lowe intentionally walked Pablo Sandoval. Ross is one of a handful of late acquisitions to contribute to the Giants’ first NL West title and playoff berth since 2003. 
Making his playoff debut at age 26 and in his third full major league season, Lincecum looked every bit an ace. He was sharp throughout, walking only defeat Aug. 5 at Atlanta. “It almost kind of feels it was one. This is the same pitcher “At the time guys were telling that far back there, I try not to whose career-worst five-start me you’re going to go through go back there and think about losing streak began with a your struggles,” Lincecum said. that mental slide.” 




ent and athletic ability, but we have struggled in putting 
McGlinn 

everything together at continued from page 28 games, ” Langnecker said. “We have had blown plays 
“Despite our losing record, and missed tackles, but have our team has continued to been focusing on these play hard and put our full things during the past week heart and body into games,” of practice.” senior captain Amy The battle between playoff Langnecker said. hopefuls and a team hungry 
The Wild Women pride for a win will take place on themselves in teamwork and Sunday at 3 p.m. at LaBar dorm unity and will be look-Field. ing to their close-knit chem­istry to help them emerge Ryan vs. Welsh Family victorious over the The newest divisional rival-Shamrocks. ry on campus will square off 
“While we haven’t achieved in each team’s final game of what we hoped we would, an the season on Sunday as undefeated season, ” Ryan faces Welsh Family Langnecker said. “We have with both teams needing a 
overcome many obstacles win and some help to secure and achieved what, in the a spot in the postseason. end, is really important The Wildcats (1 -2) are about women’s interhall foot-coming off a 32 -7 loss ball: dorm unity.” against undefeated 
The Wild Women have also Pasquerilla West while the seen encouraging things Whirlwind (1-2) are hoping from their team as the sea-to carry their momentum son has progressed, as they into this Sunday from their have developed a real identi-first win last weekend ty as a team with passion against winless Walsh by a son, and earn a possible winless season, while the ond straight undefeated reg-and love for the game and score of 20-6. Both squads playoff berth depending on Phoxes (2 -1) shut out the ular season as they face off each other. look to capture their second score differentials. Pyros 19-0. against a scrappy Pasquerilla 
“Our team has a lot of tal-wins to end the regular sea-In the absence of the “Our receivers did a great East squad. Wildcats senior captain job of reading the [Pyros’] Although the Ducks (3-0) Claire Fisher this weekend, defense,” Pangborn senior have been dominant through sophomore quarterback captain and quarterback their first three games, Maya Pillai and the rest of Gabby Tate said. “We have outscoring opponents 65-13, her team hope to fill the void smart, talented players on Pasquerilla East junior cap-and end the season with a offense. Our no huddle tain Kristin Mannion believes win. offense keeps the defense on that the Pyros (1 -2) have 
“We’re looking to finish the their toes.” more than a fighting chance. season with a win. We ’re Lewis senior captain Sarah “They ’re obviously the hoping to pick up the intensi-Ceponis was also pleased defending champs, so we ty on both sides of the ball,” with the Chicks’ performance know what to expect, ” Pillai said. “In practice, last week. Mannion said. “We know we’ve been practicing just “The team was very enthu-that they have a great quar­getting better at what we’ve siastic and energetic which terback, and the key will be been learning this season.” got us far, ” Ceponis said. getting containment on her. ” 
After only scoring seven “We have a phenomenal The Ducks are led by sen-points last week against offense, and the new players ior captain Kayla Bishop, Pasquerilla West, Pillai and are working very hard.” who gives credit to her stout the rest of the offense hope Both teams are trying to defense for the team’s strong to put some more points up carry over the momentum start. against a stingy Whirlwind from last week’s wins to this “The key has been our defense that only allowed six week’s crucial contest. defense getting containment points last week. The “Our team motto is ‘Play of both the pass and the run Whirlwinds are hoping to with intensity,’ and we ’re and getting our offense the carry their momentum from trying to keep that up, ” ball,” Bishop said. their first win last weekend Ceponis said. That defense will be tested and to finish the season with Pangborn will attempt to by a Pyros offense that has two straight victories. match the Chicks’ intensity shown flashes of solid play 
“We’re very excited about and control the tempo of the so far this season despite the results of last weekend. game. managing only 13 points We hope to carry the “Our strategy is to dictate through the first three momentum to Sunday, ” the pace of the game and games. The Pyros are com-Whirlwind senior captain keep our energy up,” Tate ing off a 19 -0 defeat by Cari Pick said. “We’re really said. Pangborn and should be hun­hoping to win because that “We also want to stay calm gry for a statement win will give us a chance for the and confident.” against the Ducks. playoffs, but either way we Because playoff berths are “We’ve drawn up a couple hope to end the season on the line, pressure new plays on offense, and strong and leave the return-becomes a factor in this our defense has been one of ing players on the right weekend ’s game, but the the bright spots to the sea-note.” teams are not letting it affect son thus far, showing how 
The Whirlwinds square off them. promising they can be, “ against the Wildcats at 4 “Our strategy is to be fear-Mannion said. “The key will 
p.m. at LaBar Field this less,” Ceponis said. “There is really be playing under con-Sunday in each team’s final a lot on the line, but we hope trol and getting containment game of the regular season. to play our game and not be on their quarterback.” In pursuit of the playoffs, the intimidated. Pangborn For Howard, the key, teams will battle in a do-or-should expect a tough game according to Bishop, will be die scenario. from us.” to continue to follow the for-
Tate views the contest the mula that has the Ducks Lewis vs. Pangborn same way. undefeated three games into 
A playoff berth is on the “We are approaching this the season. line in this weekend’s show-game like any other,” Tate “PE is solid on both sides of down between Lewis and said. “But we might wear a the ball and should be a good Pangborn, as the winner will little more eye black and test,” Bishop said. “We just move onto the playoffs while cheer a little bit louder.” have to go out and play our the loser will need to light a Lewis will face Pangborn in game.” candle at the Grotto, praying a battle for the playoffs The game will be contested for a wildcard spot. Sunday at 2 p.m. at LaBar at LaBar Field at 2 p.m. 
Both teams earned much-Field. Sunday. needed wins last week to put themselves in position to Howard vs. Pasquerilla East Contact Laura Coletti at punch a playoff ticket. The Defending interhall cham-lcoletti@nd.edu, Ian Garrahy Chicks (2-1) come into this pion Howard has shown no at igarrahy@nd.edu, Tori matchup after destroying signs of slowing down in Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu and Badin last week 25 -6, their quest to repeat. The Conor Kelly at cementing the Bullfrogs ’ Ducks look to cap off a sec-ckelly17@nd.edu 






ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame looks to continue team success 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have gotten off to nothing short of an incredible start this season, taking first place in their first two meets this year. Notre Dame will look to extend its hot streak in Knoxville, Tenn. 
advantage 

“Our goal is obviously
at the Mercedes that and play Benz to win again and just well.” Championship at While this 
go out there and play
the Holston Hills weekend may 
our best.” 
Country Club. not be Notre 
After a very Dame’s most successful home So-Hyun Park comp etiti ve meet last week-Irish senior match of the teams, including No. 14 Arkansas and No. 18 Kent State. 
“Our goal is obviously to win again and just go out there and play our best,” Park said. “There are lots of great teams playing in this tournament and I think we really need to take of 
end, the team has been work­ing to improve small parts of their game to bring it to the next level. 
“We’ve been working on what we felt like we needed to work on after our home tournament last weekend,” senior So-Hyun Park said. “For me it was my iron shots because I didn’t hit that many greens last week­end.” 
The whole team will travel this weekend, with Park, class­mate Katie Conway, junior Becca Huffer and freshmen Kristina Nhim and Nicole Zhang competing as a team and junior Katie Allare competing individ­ually. They will face 14 other season, The 
Irish know that 
they still need to be at the top of their game. 
“Two wins are just the past now, so we need to focus on what’s in front of us,” Park said. “We feel confident we can win this week.” 
The three-day meet begins today and will extend until Sunday, with 18 holes played each day of play. Saturday’s play will include a “Pink Out” in honor of Breast Cancer Awareness Week, with players wearing pink and donning their bags with pink ribbons. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Team plays conference pair 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame (11-5, 4-0 Big East) continues their confer­ence road swing this weekend as they travel to Louisville and No. 21 Cincinnati. 
With victories at South Florida and Georgetown last weekend, the Irish currently are on a 19-game conference winning streak, the sixth longest in the nation. 
The streak will be put on the line this weekend, as Louisville (8-5, 3-1 Big East) and Cincinnati (15-3, 4-0 Big East) are two of the strongest teams in the conference. The Bearcats sit tied with the Irish atop the Big East, while the Cardinals are in a three-way tie for third. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown views the upcoming pair of games as a new challenge for her squad. 
“The two games against Louisville and Cincinnati are definitely an increase in the level of competition we have been facing so far,” she said. “They are both really solid teams.” 
Notre Dame kicks off the weekend on Saturday when they travel to Louisville. This Irish will have revenge on their minds against the Cardinals, who have knocked the Irish out of each of the last four Big East Championships. 
On Sunday the Irish head to Cincinnati for a showdown between the only two unde­feated squads left in the Big East, which should come as lit­tle surprise as both teams were expected to be at the top of the conference at the begin­ning of the season. Cincinnati was the unanimous decision by the Big East Coaches to win the conference while Notre Dame was selected to finish third. 
Cincinnati’s attack is led by senior Stephanie Niemer. Niemer was selected by the coaches as the preseason Player of the Year and has won four straight Big East Player of the Week Honors. 
Brown said that both Louisville and Cincinnati pres­ent a style of play that the Irish have yet to see this year. 
“Both of these teams play a really physical style of volley­ball,” she said. “They play high above the net, so we real­ly have to focus on stopping their big hitters with our blocking.” 
The Irish begin play at 10 
a.m. at Louisville Saturday. The 5 p.m. match Sunday at Cincinnati will be nationally televised on ESPNU. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


couple of weeks of the season, get redemption for a loss two and we tailed off and played weeks ago to Carroll. 
Sigfried 

miserably in the end. This year “We weren’t on our game we want to change that.” against Carroll and our injuries 
continued from page 28 

Zahm has also been working and lack of practice played a keep the pressure on the hard to improve its all-around big role in our loss,” St. Ed’s Rambler offense. game, but it has also focused on captain and junior running 
“The key will be stopping the mental game as well. Zahm back/linebacker Jay Mathes Siegfried’s great running game looks to shore things up offen-said. because I am confident our sively as senior linebacker and This week the Gentlemen plan offense can put some points on coach Mark Pomerenke will on turning the tide. 
the board,” said Dawg junior step off the field on offense and “We looked a lot better in captain Dan Dansdill. “The run call plays from the sideline practice this week,” Mathes game has worked for us the instead of the huddle. The said. “We’re planning on going past two weeks but I have faith Zahmbies will also incorporate out there and playing our best that Cronin can throw the ball some unconventional approach-ball against Fisher.” downfield if necessary.” es. The Fishermen (1-2) are also 
In a defensive battle with an “Most of the preparation for determined, but not for undefeated record on the line, the week has been mental,” redemption. 
Siegfried and Alumni are slated Pomerenke said. “I have had my “We want to get a big win to kick off at 2 p.m. Sunday at running back coach, Colin going into next year,” ssenior Riehle Fields. Casey, watch ‘The Little Engine captain and halfback Michael that Could’ every night before McMahon said. “We plan to Carroll vs. Zahm bed and have asked fellow line-[dominate] and win by a lot of Carroll looks to keep its per-backer Greg Allare to listen to points. It will cap off a regular fect record intact this week as nothing but Pantera until the season that our program has 
the Vermin take on Zahm. game.” made big improvements in.” against St. Edward’s defensive undefeated and go all the way 
Carroll (3-0) comes into the After much preparation, both The Gentlemen had a tough lineman Jose Carranza who, to the championship and win,” game looking strong on both teams remain confident about time getting their offense mov-according to Mathes, “domi-Rizzo said. “We’re not just look-sides of the ball, partially as a their chances on Sunday. ing against Carroll. The run-nates the line.” ing to make the playoffs. This result of an influx of freshman “We hope to come away with ning game in particular sput-The two down-but-not-out year we are looking to bring the talent and enthusiasm. Zahm a win on Sunday against tered and was not able to gain squads go head to head this championship back to (0-2) looks to show Carroll that Zahm,” Speer said. “We know momentum. Senior quarter-Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Stanford.” it has more than just a tough, that, especially in dorm football, back Matt Abeling will have an Fields. Stanford will take on Dillon spirited defense after being shut records don’t matter one bit. additional weapon this weekend Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle out in its first two games. One little miscue and the game in junior wide receiver Joey Dillon vs. Stanford Field. 
Both teams have been looking could be lost. Our goal is to stay Ricioli, who will return this The battle between the Big to target weak areas of their focused on the current oppo-week from a hamstring injury. Red and the Griffins should be Duncan vs. Morrissey game in practice. Carroll has nent and to do the little things The Gentlemen believe he will hotly contested right from the The 2010 Duncan looked strong with freshman right.” be a spark for their offensive start as Dillon and Stanford Highlanders are on a mission to quarterback Jack Gardner at Pomerenke echoed that senti-attack against Fisher. both look to score early to become the first team in hall the helm, but the Vermin seek ment. Fisher’s offense feels like they secure a league title and an history to make the playoffs. To to improve on finishing their “We are optimistic about our are up to the challenge against automatic bid in the 2010 play-accomplish this unprecedented offensive drives in the red zone. chances,” he said. “We have the St. Edward’s defense. offs. task, they will have to defeat an With the ultimate goal of win-been missing a lot of players “We have a lot of weapons on Dillon (2-0) has defeated underrated Morrissey squad ning the championship in the lately, and we have been prac-both sides of the ball, but offen-O’Neill and Keenan in thrillers this weekend. stadium in mind, the Vermin ticing hard at showing up.” sively we are led by Junior so far this season. The Big Red Duncan (1-2) had a tough have worked hard to continual-Carroll takes on Zahm at 2 quarterback Pat Hertinstein,” trailed at halftime in both game last week, as they lost to ly improve all aspects of their p.m. at Rhiele Fields on Sunday. McMahon said. “We are excited games, only to come back in the an undefeated Alumni team 14­play. to get to practice this week and second half of both games and 6. With their final game loom­
“In practice we’ve been Fisher vs. St. Edward’s get ready for St. Ed’s.” steal the victories. ing, Highlander junior captain stressing the importance of get-Fisher and St. Edward’s are One of the offensive weapons “Even though we’re 2-0 we Paul Scheel has not lost confi­ting better every day and mak-filled with determination going for Fisher is freshman Joe have a lot of stuff to work on. dence in his team. ing sure that we aren’t taking into this Sunday’s battle Paggi, whom McMahon believes The first two games we didn’t “During our game with any minute on the field too between the two squads. is having a great season thus start off as well as we wanted Alumni, we had many lapses on lightly,” junior center and The Gentlemen (1-1) have far, and he’s having a big to, especially offensively, a lot of defense,” he said. “Our defense defensive end Mitch Speer said. their eyes on a return to the impact on the improvement of penalties and stuff like that,” must come up huge for us to “Last year, we had a great first Stadium and are determined to the program. Paggi will face off Dillon sophomore coach Lee have a shot at Morrissey.” 
Haruno said. “Mainly we want The Highlanders will rely on to play smarter football, more strong play from junior middle disciplined football. We want to linebacker Brett Leahy and be a team that competes for the sophomore defensive end Chris whole game and not just the Herlihy against the Manor. second half.” Additionally, Scheel noted junior 
Stanford has also faced prob-offensive lineman Steve Bruns lems early on the offensive side must use his toughness and of the ball in their previous experience for the Highlanders games. After recording victories to have any chance. over Keenan and Keough with “We are pretty down after los­two scores in the final two min-ing a very winnable game this utes, the team captain believes past weekend,” Scheel said. the Griffings must improve their “We must come back and get a red zone offense in order to win against Morrissey. We want remain undefeated. to be the first team in Duncan 
“We’re looking to improve on history to make the playoffs.” converting our red zone oppor-For the Manor (1-1), physical­tunities. When we get down ity and speed are central to toward the endzone we want to both their defensive and offen­make sure we get some points sive game. Morrissey has had a out of it,” senior quarterback week to think about their loss to Tony Rizzo said. Alumni two weeks ago. 
Rizzo believes that in order to “During our last game, find success in the red zone, a Alumni outplayed us by using solid performance from their their physicality throughout the offensive line is crucial. course of the game,” sophomore 
“On offense the key is going to Morrissey captain Alex Oloriz be our offensive line. I think our said. “We must use that same offensive line is going to be style of play against Duncan.” pretty important in this game,” Morrissey’s two key players he said. are junior Tom Neilz and sopho-
Dillon is aware of Stanford’s more Sean Bauer, who are both offensive firepower, and they two-way offensive linemen. hope their veterans will take The outcome of this game is leadership in defending the crucial to both teams in their undefeated Griffins. quest to play in the champi­
“They’ve really put up some onship game on the fabled points. Defensively I think it will grounds of Notre Dame be a challenge. We will try to Stadium. contain their offense, but I think Game time is 1 p.m. this we’ve got guys who will be up Sunday at Riehle Fields. for that challenge,” Lee said. “We’ve got good senior leader­ship. We’ve got guys who are Contact Kelsey Manning at really passionate and competi-Kmannin3@nd.edu, Kristen tive, so we’ve just got to chan-Lasak at Klasak@nd.edu, David nel that in the right ways.” Kenney at Dkenney1@nd.edu, 
For Stanford, this game is Megan Golden at more than just another victory. Mgolde01@saintmarys.edu and “We’re 2-0 right now, and our Adam Llorens at goal and our plan is to stay allorens@nd.edu 



MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish head to Morgantown to take on WVU 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off a 2-1 road win in Bloomington against Indiana Wednesday, the No. 22 Irish will pack their bags 
a g a i n  a n d  h e a d  t o  
M o r g a n t o w n ,  W.  Va . ,  
S a t u r d a y  t o  f a c e  We s t  
Virginia.  

“It was hard enough play­ing them at home last year,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “If you tell me there’s an easy place to play in the conference, I’d like to see it. I think the toughest test for our guys is having two road trips back to back. They need to prepare themselves physically.” 
The Irish (5-2-3) enter the contest on a modest two ­game win streak and have not lost dating back to a 2-0 loss to Michigan State on Sept. 19. An 80th minute goal from junior midfielder Adam Mena gave the Irish the late-game edge against the Hoosiers. Clark said the team needs to focus on the here and now to avoid get­ting caught up in the recent win streak. 
“Perhaps I’m old -fash ­ioned, but my mood doesn’t change much based on what ’s going on as far as streaks,” Clark said. “The only thing we discuss as a team is how we play togeth­er, you know, can we play together as a team? If we do that, we put ourselves in position to win every game.” 
The Mountaineers (5-3-2) come into the game looking to knock off the Irish for the second straight year and notch a Big East win. The Mountaineers are led by sophomore forward Moeryhan Doue, who leads the team with five goals and twelve points. Though the game is of particular impor­tance as the Irish look to continue their Big East suc­cess punctuated by wins against St. John ’s and Providence, Clark is more focused on playing good soccer than worrying about conference standings. 
“It’s not so much about a conference game, ” Clark said. “We’ve got to somehow get to a point where we can win every game we come out for.” 
One Irish player who will be riding a swell of good fortune into the West Virginia game is senior for­ward Jeb Brovsky, who was named a finalist for the Lowe’s Senior Class Award. 
Brovsky has recovered from an early season ankle injury and ranks second on the team with two goals this season, behind senior for­ward Steven Perry’s five. 
“He’s grown really nicely as a player, and obviously as a person and a leader,” Clark said. “I think Notre Dame does a good job of developing young men and women during their time here. The atmosphere of the campus helps them to see 
outside themselves. He ’s really becoming just a fine young man.” 
The Irish will face off against the Mountaineers at 
7:30 p.m. Saturday night. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Team looks to break losing streak in pair 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
In every level of sports, teams face adversity over the course of a long season. What separates the good teams from the bad teams is the ability to overcome the difficult parts of the season and be able to play well down the stretch, something that Saint Mary’s is trying to accomplish this weekend. 
The Belles (3-13, 1-7 MIAA) will try to snap a seven-game losing streak this weekend when they face Beloit (9-9) and Albion (4-15, 0-8). 
Saint Mary’s defeated Albion 3­0 in its conference opener four weeks ago, but since then, the Belles have dropped seven con­secutive conference matches to fall to eighth in the standings. 
After a rough start, Belles head coach Toni Kuschel expects the team to begin playing better. 
“They key for us is to get better each time we step out onto the court together,” Kuschel said. 
The Belles have an advantage in the match against the Britons that they do not have when they play Beloit, as they have already competed against Albion this season. 
Saint Mary’s has had a tough time getting their offense going during their losing streak. They have been practicing to fix those problems this week, however, and Kuschel expects it to pay off on Saturday. 
“We have emphasized running a more consistent offense,” Kuschel said. 
The MIAA Tournament is less than four weeks away, so it is crucial in each match that the Belles continue to improve their game and win some matches in order to improve their seeding for the tournament. 
As the team comes down the stretch, their focus will shift so that they are ready for postsea­son play. 
“Our goal is to play at the high­est level we are capable of,” Kuschel said. “We have seen everyone in our conference now and we need to improve in all areas if we hope to have a better record the second time around.” 
Saint Mary’s faces Albion at 11 
a.m. Saturday and will immedi­ately follow with the match against Beloit at 1 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


PLEASANDVILLE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
VARBE  

 
 
 
 
 

©2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
MURYM  

 
 
 
 
 

TOESGO  

 
 
 
 
 
 

TACCRI  

 
 
 
 
 
 

BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

“ 

” 
Ans: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: MOUND CHOKE COWARD BOTTLE Yesterday’s 
Answer: What the mason faced when he was let go — “ROCK” BOTTOM 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, October 8, 2010 page 28 
HOCKEY 

Breaking the ice 

New infux of freshman season in Joyce Center 
Notre Dame to play last talent to help lead Irish 
One of the most tried and 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
true sports clichés is that each
Sports Writer 

new season comes with a fresh start — that With the Compton Family 
last season is Center rising on the southeast 
in the past. part of campus and a new 
For Notre infusion of freshman talent 
Dame this sea-entering the Joyce Center for 
son, its slate is its final season, the 2010­
cleaner than a 2011 season will mark a tran­
freshly­sition point in No. 17 Notre 
Zambonied Dame’s hockey history as the 
sheet of ice. 
Sam Werner 

Al most itself as one of the premier 
program looks to establish 

half of the forces in collegiate hockey. 
Irish lineup Sports Writer “[The Compton Family 
will likely Center] is kind of a symbol of 
be com-where we are and where 
posed of freshmen this season, we’re headed,” Irish coach 
all of whom will be hoping to Jeff Jackson said. “Even 
make a name for themselves at though we’ve had some suc­
a Division I level. cess in the last five years, the 
Most teams this young would potential for us to be consis­
be looking at a rebuilding year, tently in the mix will be 
but in Notre Dame’s unique sit-helped by the building.” 
uation, a team full of fresh For the 43rd and final sea-
faces is exactly what the Irish 
YUE WU/The Observer 

Irish senior right wing Calle Ridderwall battles for the puck during Notre Dame’s preseason opener see JACKSON/page 21 against Guelph on Oct. 3. Ridderwall scored a goal during Notre Dame’s 5-3 victory. see HOCKEY/page 20 



MEN’S INTERHALL 

Siegfried and Alumni face off in battle of unbeatens 
By KELSEY MANNING, week, both teams are feeling the Ramblers are positioned for a lot of room to improve. We ic regular-season matchup. KRISTEN LASAK, confident. a stellar second half of the sea-need to make sure we don’t “Our guys are really excited DAVID KENNEY, MEGAN “We’ll always be confident. son. Their offense looked much miss tackles and take them going into this week,” Cronin GOLEN and ADAM LLORENS You never want to walk in not more consistent against Knott down,” he said. said. “Siegfried has had success Sports Writers confident,” Rambler senior cap-last week with help from an The Dawgs hope to keep in the past and is playing well 
tain Michael McDonnell said. improved offensive line and rolling on offense with a disci-again this year. This will be a 
It will be a battle to remain “However, [Alumni] does have a powerful running game. plined strategy led by freshman telling game but everyone on undefeated when the Blue very dynamic offense, which is McDonnell, however, believes quarterback Will Cronin. On the our team is up to the chal­League’s top two teams, actually intimidating to look at. defense will be the focus this other side of the ball, Alumni lenge.” Siegfried and Alumni, face off We are not going to underesti-time around. has only surrendered one Defensively, Alumni has only this Sunday. With Siegfried mate them and we will try to “The key is going to be on our touchdown in two games, and is allowed one touchdown in two coming off a dominating win mentally prepare properly for defensive side of the ball. We hoping to keep the pressure on games thus far, and is hoping to over Knott and Alumni besting this game.” have gotten compliments on our the Rambler offense. The Duncan by a touchdown last After a slow start on offense, defense, but I still think there is Dawgs are energized for a titan-see SIEGFRIED/page 25 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish to play Big East pair 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
No. 5/7 Notre Dame will wrap its regular season home schedule by attempt­ing to harvest wins from two Garden State foes this week­end at Alumni Stadium. 
The Irish (11-1, 5-0) will face tough opponents in Rutgers (8-5. 3-2) and Seton Hall (6-6, 2-3), who provide more challenges than their records indicate. 
Last season, the Irish and Scarlet Knights were the class of the Big East, as the two teams were ranked top­10 when then No. 8 Notre Dame defeated then No. 10 Rutgers 1-0 on senior mid-
see RUTGERS/page 17 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 
Shamrocks play Walsh to earn playoff berth 
By LAURA COLETTI, IAN GARRAHY, TORI ROECK and CONNOR KELLY 
Sports Writers 
McGlinn ’s objective is simple this Sunday, as a win over Walsh will secure a playoff berth for the Shamrocks. They will get the chance to complete a strong regular season as the winless Wild Women try to play spoiler. 
“I think the season has been good so far,” senior captain Gillian Allsup said. “Our goal every year is playoffs, so we need to win this weekend to accomplish that.” 
In order to achieve their goal, the Shamrocks (2-1) are taking extra time this week in practice to make sure they are finishing plays both offensively and defensively, and are work­ing on being able to adapt to in -game situations as they read how their oppo­nent is playing. McGlinn is coming off a bye week and is hungry to be back in action. 
Walsh (0 -3) will be a tough opponent for McGlinn, as they strive to prevent a winless season after reaching the semifi­nals last season. 
see MCGLINN/page 23 


COMMENTARY 

Pitt game affects future of program 
Not many Notre Dame fans make it a point to see the Pittsburgh game every year. It is not a high-profile rivalry, if it’s a rivalry at all. The Irish and Panthers match-up is rarely a top-25 contest, nor is it histori­cally relevant. 
Nonetheless, S atu rday ’s game will likely determine how fans view, in retrospect, the first five games of Brian Kelly’s career. Saturday’s game will likely deter­mine the direction of the remain­der of Notre Dame’s season. Saturday’s game will likely alter next year’s season, and many more to come after that. 
All of that from a simple Saturday afternoon facing Dave Wannstedt’s Panthers? 
A win Saturday puts the Irish at 3-3. All offseason long fans won­dered how Brian Kelly would lead Notre Dame through this season’s first six games, filled with rival­ries — Michigan, Boston College 
— and top-tier teams — Stanford and, before a disappointing start, Pittsburgh. 
In August, many Irish fans would have jumped at the chance to be 3-3 after this weekend. Granted, the process of getting to the point where a .500 record is possible has been a roller coaster ride, but nonetheless, three wins are three wins. With three wins, the win over Boston College is no longer simply a sloppy win over a struggling team. The losses to Michigan and Michigan State turn from heartbreakers into growing experiences. Even the loss to Stanford becomes a motivator, rather than a travesty in Notre Dame Stadium. 
On the flipside, a loss Saturday puts the Irish at 2-4. That tough opening six-game stretch sudden­ly becomes a scheduling error. Fans begin to criticize Notre Dame for not altering from tradi­tion, not scheduling “guarantee” games and, like a broken record, for not joining a conference. 
Others will claim Notre Dame will never be able to “return to glory” as it once knew. 
The win over Boston College remains a lucky win over a team without a true starting quarter­back. The losses to Michigan and Michigan State demonstrate the Big Ten’s superiority. And the loss to Stanford remains an abysmal travesty. 
Amazing, isn’t it, how quickly the opinion of hindsight changes, simply hinging on the result of a game against Pittsburgh? 

Fans’ opinions are not all that Saturday’s result will affect. Notre Dame’s three games following Pittsburgh — Western Michigan, Navy and Tulsa. — are all very winnable. Entering that stretch as 
a .500 team, the Irish will know they can exit it at 6-3, with momentum building. If Notre Dame enters that stretch at 2-4, anything could happen in those three games; win them all, split them, or, Brian Kelly forbid, lose them all. 
A team two-thirds of the way through the season at 6-3, with a five-game winning streak, is a team that could legitimately pose a threat to any team remaining on its schedule. 
On the contrary, a team two-thirds of the way through the sea­son, having just suffered a loss in a game it should have won, is a team poised to disappoint again. 
Who knew? Who knew that a home game facing Pittsburgh could hold such an effect? Who knew that Pittsburgh could be the season-defining game for the Irish, rather than the loss to Michigan or Stanford, the win over Boston College, or whatever result Los Angeles holds? 
Yet, Saturday’s result could affect even more. During Notre Dame’s three-game losing streak, Brian Kelly and his staff somehow secured the commitments of mul­tiple high-profile recruits. In recent days, however, reports have surfaced questioning the strength of some of those commit­ments. 
If the Irish lose to Pittsburgh, and possibly drop one of the fol­lowing three, some of those com­mitments could be completely rescinded. 
But if the Irish top the Panthers, recruits would see a Notre Dame program headed in the right direction, headed upwards, readying for its “return to glory.” That result could lead to even more high-profile commitments, and, in theory, those lead to high­er-quality teams in the future. 
It might seem like a reach, but it would be wise for Notre Dame fans to embrace this game against Pittsburgh. This game’s result will affect how fans view the previous five. This game’s result will alter the rest of the season’s path, and therefore, the path of the program in years to come. 
A win over an unranked Pittsburgh team has never been a seminal moment in Notre Dame’s past. But little about Notre Dame today resembles much from its past. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Outside linebackers make visits 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
A pair of coveted class of 2011 outside linebackers — one verbally committed to Notre Dame, one still unde­cided — will make official visits this weekend, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. 
Both current commit Ben Councell (Asheville, N.C.) and Christian French (Cedar Rapids, Iowa) have made several trips to campus in the past, via camps and unoffi­cial visits, and are ready to take in the game day experi­ence. 
“[Councell is] a big-time recruit who has been really good this year, making lots of plays,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN -affiliate irish­sportsdaily.com. “He can def­initely run, has real good size and is a guy Notre Dame has liked for a very long time. This weekend should just solidify where he’s at with everything.” 
Though French is listed as an “athlete” and Frank said he could play a number of positions for Notre Dame and several other schools, the Irish staff likes his potential as an outside linebacker in their 3-4 defensive scheme, Frank said. 
“He’s one of the last guys still on [Notre Dame’s] list right now,” Frank said. “He’s mentioned he wanted to make an early decision before, so we’ll have to see if he will soon or if he’ll take his time. But there’s not a whole lot of slots left for 2011.” 
The Irish currently have 20 is one of those guys who is verbal commitments — all of too good a player to leave which they’ll try to hold on alone,” said Frank, noting to. But that’s becoming Lynch because there were increasingly difficult in the rumors (since dispelled) ear-current climate of negative lier in the week that the Irish recruiting, Frank said. commit would take other vis­
“I had a coach once tell me its. “That’s a good sign; if that they kind of like it when other teams aren’t going to kids commit, because it takes let up and keep recruiting away a lot of the competition, your guys, that means you’ve and sometimes that’s when got the right guys.” the real recruiting starts,” With only a few spots Frank said. “Then, there’s remaining in the class of only a few 2011, the Irish schools after staff will begin a kid — the to take a look ones that “No commitment is safe at prospects in maybe fin -the 2012 class. 
anymore. ... I can’t even 
ished sec -Wide receiver 
begin to tell you how
ond or third Amara Darboh, 
— still much negative quarterback w o r k i n g Patrick Powles 
recruiting is out there.” 
hard behind and defensive the scenes. end Tom 
“No com -Mike Frank Strobel are mitment is Irish recruiting expert three such 
safe any ­more. A lot of kids go in with the best of intentions and think they’re going to end up at Notre Dame or wherever they’re committed, but I can’t even begin to tell you how much negative recruiting is out there.” 
Frank said Notre Dame is not unique in the fact that schools try to negatively impact a recruit’s view of the University by suggesting, for example, that the academics are too tough or the social life is not robust enough. 
And, in some regard, Frank said the fact that major pro­grams are trying to lure Irish commits away is a good sign. 
“It’s usually the big-time, elite guys who get pressure to go elsewhere. Aaron Lynch players who 
will visit this 
weekend, Frank said. 
“Notre Dame’s going to have a number of juniors in, but I think right now it’s a situation where you’re trying to see who’s out there, and who are the legit prospects,” Frank said. “Right now, everybody says they’re ‘X’ height and ‘Y’ weight, and people come in and they’re quite a bit smaller, so the coaches want to see who those legit prospects are. They’ll probably bring some junior film with them, too, and that should give the coaches a pretty good idea of where they’re at.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Quick adjustment 
Sophomorerunningback-turned-receiverTheoRiddickisreadytotakehisgametothenextlevel 
position may have taken some first. 
By SAM WERNER 

additional time, Riddick said “I started to see the devel-
Sports Writer 

he spent most of his offseason opment and a lot of other trying to prepare for Irish players did as well,” Riddick 
Looking at the top of Notre coach Brian Kelly’s new high-said. Dame’s receiving statistics, paced offensive system from a “They started like chuckling one might reasonably expect physical standpoint. and saying side comments to find junior receiver Michael “I was just trying to get into like, ‘Hey, you’re starting to Floyd or tight end Kyle better condition,” Riddick look like a wide receiver,’ and Rudolph. In fact, the leading said. “That was the main I didn’t really see it at the Irish pass-catcher so far this thing once I found out [about time, but now I do.” season is a player who wasn’t the position change], because His growing comfort at the even on the receiver depth in a spread offense you’re new position was becoming chart a year ago. running 24/7.” clear to the coaching staff as 
Not that Theo Riddick ever Riddick said the other well. doubted his ability to get receivers were incredibly “Back in the summer even, I there. helpful to him in making the said that I thought he was 
switch, specifically Floyd. He going to really come on and Making the switch added that Floyd helped him be pretty good and I think 
The sophomore moved from learn the tricks of the trade — that’s held true,” offensive running back to receiver in including breaking down cov-coordinator Charley Molnar the offseason. While some erages and learning to run his said. “We could see it during players may have faced an routes. summer camp that he was extended adjustment period, “If it wasn’t for [Floyd], I really close.” Riddick slid in don’t know Riddick’s ability to adapt right away. where I’d be quickly was essential to the 
“This is right now,” Irish offense, because as the everything I “Back in the summer Riddick said. slot receiver, he’s expected to e x p e c t e d , ” “He’s just be one of the most versatile 
even, I said that I 
Riddick said. communicated players on the field. 
thought he was going to
“It started picking up on “In our offense, he’s a guy ever since really come on and be all the little that we can get the ball to Coach Kelly pretty good and I think things, trying very quickly a number of dif­got here, so to make me ferent ways. We haven’t hand­
that’s held true.” 
the transi -better every ed the ball off to him very tion’s been a day.” much, but we can do that,” while. I’m Charley Molnar Riddick also Molnar said. “He’s in close starting to see Irish offensive coordinator had help from proximity to the quarterback, the light.” another famil-he’s in a good position to 
Riddick said iar face. When throw screens to — bubble then-running Kelly was passes — and also the number backs coach Tony Alford hired in December, he decided of times he’s working against called him over winter break to retain Alford on his staff, linebackers rather than cor­last year and asked if he but as the wide receivers ners, so sometimes we have a would do anything to help the coach. Riddick said working real physical mismatch.” team win. After the New with Alford last year made his Kelly specifically noted Jersey native right away development as a receiver Riddick’s ability essentially to responded that he would, even easier. neutralize Boston College Alford asked if he would be “It helps a lot, because you linebacker Mark Herzlich last against a mismatched line-Riddick said he never stopped willing to move to the receiver actually build a relationship,” weekend. backer. learning the game. position. Riddick said he Riddick said. “I’m not saying I “You take a Herzlich out of “[Floyd and Rudolph] both “I mean, even though I was-immediately accepted the don’t have a relationship with the game against B.C. because have been double covered a n’t in, I was always in tune on change. the other coaches, but I knew he’s got to stay out over Theo number of times, and when the sideline, trying to know 
After agreeing, Riddick said him before so it was more of a Riddick the whole game,” those things happen, that usu-what the call was to envision he got to work right away comfort zone coming right Kelly said. “I don’t know if he ally singles up somebody and what was going to go on, so preparing for his new role. in.” had a couple of tackles, but that’s what’s really happening nothing really changed,” he 
“I tried to watch film,” he he was effectively taken out of right now with Theo,” Molnar said. said. “It was hard for me Fitting right in the ballgame.” said. Now that he’s ingrained because I didn’t have to know Riddick said the first time Riddick is also valuable himself at the receiver posi­that much about coverages he actually felt like a receiver when teams elect to double Turning it on tion, all that’s left to do is [as a running back], so I tried came over the summer — cover Floyd or Rudolph, Through two games this turn the Irish into a winning to teach myself.” even though it may have been because it will leave Riddick season, Riddick caught only football team. 
While the tactical side of the apparent to his teammates in single coverage, often times four passes for 52 yards. In “I’m just trying to win ball the last three, he’s caught 26 games,” he said. “If my play balls for 268 yards and three can develop to a victory, that’s touchdowns. all I care about.” 
“We knew that it would take When the Irish fell to 1-3 a game or two to really gain two weeks ago, the criticism the confidence that he needed inevitably started to swirl and so far so good,” Molnar around campus. Riddick said said. he tried to ignore the negative 
Riddick echoed his coach, vibes and just focus on foot-saying he simply needed to ball and his teammates. find his comfort zone as a “We were 1-3 and some receiver. people started to give up on 
“I’m just getting more com-us and stuff like that, but we fortable — completely, com-don’t really worry about pletely comfortable in a sense that,” he said. “We just go out 
— knowing what I have to do there and play for one anoth­and reading the defense bet-er.” ter than I was,” he said. After the win against Boston 
Last year, Riddick rushed College, though, he said the for 160 yards on 29 attempts mood inside the football pro-and returned kicks for the gram has changed dramati-Irish. He said the experience cally. of simply being on the field, “Everyone’s happy, a lot of even if it was at a different smiles definitely and more to position, has helped him excel come,” Riddick said. this year. Riddick said that he didn’t 
“The game is a lot slower,” have any specific personal Riddick said. “Coming out as a goals for the season, only that freshman, everything was a he wanted to become the best lot quicker, everything moved receiver he could be. quicker. “I just want to get a lot bet­
“Just being out there and ter, and be able to catch every knowing that I could perform ball,” he said. “I don’t want to on that level gave me that catch 90 and drop one.” confidence.” 
Even throughout inconsis-Contact Sam Werner at tent playing time a year ago, swerner@nd.edu 



Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD T
Record: 2-3 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 
Irish Offense vs. Panthers Defense 

Notre Dame 



career record: 
173-60-2 
record at ND: 
2-3 
against Pitt: 
2-1 





Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame may have beaten Boston College, but the Irish did not exactly inspire confidence with their perform­ance. 
Only two weeks removed from the debacle known as the Irish loss against Stanford, it is hard to think about Notre Dame as a strong team already. 
That being said, playing Pittsburgh provides a unique opportunity — Brian Kelly knows the Panthers better than he knows any other team in the coun­try, excluding Cincinnati. That simple fact, along with continued progression team-wide, provides enough hope to pick the Irish. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Pittsburgh 23 

Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 
The Irish offense finally found the accelerator against Boston College, scor­ing three early touchdowns and showing what Kelly’s attack can look like. But they seemed to release the gas pedal as quickly as they found it, and they’ll need to avoid that Saturday. 
Heading into the season, I thought Dion Lewis was the best player on the Irish schedule. And while Denard Robinson proved me wrong, I’m still scared of a Lewis-Ray Graham combo that gives me visions of the Connecticut ground game last season. Still, this Pitt team is just not that good, and Notre Dame has a chance to get on a roll. 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Pittsburgh 17 Eric Prister 

Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame looked great against Boston College, scoring touchdowns on three of its first four drives, which is a change, but also exactly what has been expected from this team all year. Boston College was nowhere near as good as the Irish, and Notre Dame defeated the Eagles, as it should have. 
Pittsburgh may not be as bad as Boston College, but the Panthers are still not as good a team as Notre Dame. If the Irish can stay focused, concentrate only on this game and get off to a good start again, they should win handily. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Pittsburgh 27 



Pittsburgh 
Panthers

O HEAD 
Record: 2-2 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Sixth season at Pittsburgh 

Panthers Offense vs. Irish Defense 


career record: 
32-27 
record at Pitt: 
32-27 
Dave Wannstedt against ND: head coach 2-1 








Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 

Pittsburgh will be a step up in 
Notre Dame did exactly what it terms of quality of opponent after 
should have done last week in last week, but this is still a very 
beating a far inferior team and will winnable game for the Irish. If Notre 
do the same this week. Dame can exhibit the same tenacity 
Pittsburgh has been disappoint-stopping the run as they did against 
ing so far this season, winning only Boston College, it's doubtful that 
against the likes of Florida Panther quarterback Tino Sunseri 
International and New Hampshire will be able to beat the Irish on his 
and losing badly to Miami. Notre own. Notre Dame will have to run the Dame is not Miami, but it is not ball — and stay committed to run-FIU, either. The Irish defense will ning the ball — against a tough not allow the kinds of holes Pittsburgh rushing defense. Still, the Pittsburgh's running backs are Irish got a win under their belts, and used to finding. The Irish should that newfound confidence will go a have no problem starting its first long way. win streak of the season. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 30, Pittsburgh 21 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Pittsburgh 13 





What is the best horoscope you've gotten from The Observer? 
It's hard to say but I will say I'm a huge Horoscope guy. I always make sure I grab The Observer and look out for any four-or five-star days out there. 
Who's your favorite person to follow on Twitter? 
Probably [freshman nose guard] Louis Nix. He's funny on Twitter and he's easily one of the funni­est kids, if not the funniest kid, on the team. ... LNix67. Got to check it out. 
What did you think of Tuesday's episode of Glee? 
It was very deep. I couldn't get enough of it. Got me a little choked up, I'm not going to lie. 
Are you rooting for Finn and Rachel? 
I am rooting for Finn and Rachel. I know a lot of previews before the season hinted at other things, but I like what has happened so far. We'll see what happens so far. Maybe the "Grilled Cheesus" will keep answering his prayers. 

Sophomore Graham takes advantage of new role 
By LAURA MYERS  of 164 rus h in g ya r d s p e r game, a figure that is third  
Sports Writer  nationally. He also leads the  
country in all-purpose yards,  
Pittsburgh sophomore  run- with 236.33 per game.  
ning back Dion Lewis earned  “What they do offensively  
nearly every accolade a fresh- has been evolved around a  
man could receive in 2009.  running game that has fea- 
Among other honors, he was  tured Dion Lewis in the past,”  
named the Big East offensive  Irish coach Brian Kelly said in  
player of the year and a unan­ his Tuesday press conference.  
imous freshman All-American.  “Now it’s Ray Graham.”  
But when Lewis was unable  Wannstedt said Lewis was  
to  p la y  Sa tu r d ay  a g ai nst  he ld  o ut  of  the  Fl o r ida  
Florida International after  International game  on  pur­ 
being “banged up” in practice,  pose, but he could have played  
Panthers coach  if necessary.  
D  a  v  e  “I  ex pect  
W a n n s t e d t  “What they do  Dion to be fine  
gave his other s o p h o m o r e  offensively has been  this week,” he said i n a  
running back,  evolved around a  Tuesday press  
Ra y  Graha m,  running game that has  c o n f e r e n c e .  
his first start. Graham took  featured Dion Lewis in  “Ray G r aha m an d D io n  
a d van tage  of  the past. Now it’s Ray  Lewis will both  
the opportuni- Graham.”  p r acti c e  a n d  
ty, running for  they will both  
277 ya rd s on 29 carries. He  Brian Kelly  play … We’re fortun ate t o  
scor ed  three  Irish coach  ha v e  b o t h  
t o u c h d o w n s ,  t h ose  gu ys,  
including a 79­ and we’ll  con- 
yard run, and returned two  tinue to play them both.”  
kick returns for 78 yards. The  The Irish defense allowed  
performance earned him Big  Boston College just five rush- 
East player of the week hon­ ing yards Saturday in their 31­ 
ors.  13 defeat of the Eagles. With AP  
“The running game with Ray  L ewi s  a nd  G rah am  i n  t h e Pittsburgh running back Ray Graham outruns the New Hampshire defense in the Panthers’ 38-16 win on  
Graham  was  as  good of  an  game, the  run  defense will Sept. 11. Graham ran for 277 yards and three touchdowns last week against Florida International.  
effort  as  I have  ever  seen  by  need to step up  once  again,  
an individual,” Wannstedt said  Kelly said.  an  average of 5.7 yards per  Having two stars is both  a  t h e w ay you  w ant  t h em  to  
in his post-game press confer­ “Having both those backs  carry.  positive and  a  negative, he  think. The great  ones  think  
ence Saturday.  obv ious ly prese n ts  a  great  “I think that Ray showed  said.  that way. … Their relationship  
Graham, who did not play in  challenge,” he said.  what kind of person h e i s ,  “They both want the ball,”  is good, but at the same time  
Pittsburgh’s openi n g g ame  In 2009, Lewis carried the  with how he handled every- Wan nst e dt  sa id.  “Whet he r  they’re both going to be  anx­ 
against Utah,  now  leads the  ball 325 times for 1,799 yards,  thing with Dion last year hav­ you’re  a  receiver, a  tight end  iously wanting the football  
team with 495 yards  on  52  the second most ever by a Pitt  ing all the success week after  or  a  running back, big-time  come Saturday.”  
ca r ri es,  an  avera g e of  9.5  freshman.  we ek ,”  Wa n nst e dt  s ai d .  guys want the ball. They feel  
yards per carry. He is first in  As Lewis’ backup, Graham  “T h er e’s  no  m o r e  hu mbl e  that if they get the ball they  Contact Laura Myers at  
the Big East with  an  average  rushed 61 times for 349 yards,  player on our team.”  can make a difference. That’s  lmyers2@nd.edu  

Youthful offensive line begins to gain confidence 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
In Brian Kelly’s spread offense, the quarterback repeatedly hears he needs to get rid of the ball quickly. But no matter how quickly Irish quarterback Dayne Crist releases the football, his offensive line needs to give him enough time to do so. 
In the first few games of the sea­son, especially during the 37-14 loss to Stanford, Crist was pressured more often than Kelly would have liked, and both the Irish passing and rushing attacks suffered. 
Against Boston College, the Irish offensive line consistently gave Crist time to throw and to run the Irish offense. Notre Dame needed those few games of adjustment because three of the five starting linemen were starting their first game against Purdue, offensive coordinator Charley Molnar said. 
“During summer camp, when talk­ing about our youth, how these guys had never taken a snap, now all of a sudden these guys have over 300 plays,” Molnar said. “I just think that the continuity helped. Really, up until Saturday the same five guys virtually took every single rep at the same position. So they got a ton of work. … They’ve played half a season. They are quickly becoming veterans.” 
Sophomore tackle Zack Martin, junior center Braxston Cave and sen­ior tackle Taylor Dever all started their first game against Purdue, with only fifth-year guard Chris Stewart and junior guard Trevor Robinson holding experience on the line. 
Nonetheless, each of those three first-timers has progressed as their confidence grew. 
“Definitely every game your confi­dence is going to grow,” Martin said. “Confidence from your teammates and coaches. Each game you feel a bit more comfortable in there.” 
The youngest of the three, Martin, has particularly impressed Kelly as he has learned on the fly, confronting new defensive looks and challenges in each game. 
“There are things happening each week that he has never seen before,” Kelly said in his Tuesday press con­ference. “When you look at Zack Martin as a first-time starter, each week he sees new things and maybe doesn’t handle it like a veteran starter, but those things that he has encountered already, he’s playing at a high level. He’s grading out as our top lineman at this point.” 
Of the three offensive line new­comers, the one with the most responsibility, and pressure, has been Cave. He holds the job of identi­fying defensive looks and blitzes, as well as matching Crist’s cadence and snap count. Against Stanford, Cave said he did not do an adequate job at these tasks, and it cost the Irish. 
“It was just the fact of holding onto [the ball] when I needed to so Dayne could see the blitzes coming,” Cave said. “In the Stanford game I didn’t do a good job of that. They were tim­ing things up well. We just switched it up and worked on it every day in practice.” 
Those growing pains have receded as Cave has gained more and more experience, in those 300 snaps, offensive line coach Ed Warriner said. 
“Playing experience. Just being able to play, watching film, that has led to maturation in playing that position.” 

Against Boston College, Cave missed a handful of snaps after rolling his ankle. In his place stepped junior Mike Golic, Jr. Golic is also the back-up at right guard, behind Robinson. 
“[Backing up two positions] helps me more than anything else,” Golic said. “Knowing what I have to do at guard helps me know what I’m doing at center by knowing what the guy on either side of me is thinking.” 
That level of comfort showed in his few snaps Saturday. 
“There wasn’t a big drop-off [between Cave and Golic],” Molnar said. “I’d say in the last five or six weeks, we’ve been commenting on how Mike has been getting a better understanding of the offense and being more physical.” 
That confidence and depth will be necessary against Pittsburgh, a foe Kelly has faced each of the past three seasons. 
“It’s a tough, physical defense, and again, they can do some very good things with their front four,” Kelly said of the Panthers. “They give great pressure on the quarterback with their front four.” 
Fortunately for Kelly, the confi­dence his offensive line has gained has inspired some confidence in him. 
“I feel pretty good at the offensive line,” Kelly said. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 










