the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Student Union explains budget allocations 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The total budget for the Student Union hit nearly $850,000 for the 2010-11 aca­demic year, but big -name, high-budget performers like Lil Wayne will not be coming to campus anytime soon, according to Student Union representatives. 
Student Union treasurer Sarah Hurtubise oversees the allocation of Student Union funds to student government, the Student Union Board (SUB) and other student groups. 

SUB received $239,000 for programming this year, and student government was allot­ted roughly $34,000, Hurtubise said. While these numbers differ greatly, Hurtubise said there are many factors behind fund allocation decisions. 
“Sometimes there are mis­understandings about why student government does not get as much money as SUB,” Hurtubise said. “SUB obvious­ly is great at programming, and student government always is on top of policy and awareness and making sure everything runs smoothly for the student body.” 



CoachesmakedifferenceinSouthBend 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Brian Kelly and Charlie Weis have more in common than sim­ply having held the position of Notre Dame head football coach: Both were inspired by personal family experiences to found organizations in South Bend. 
In 2003, Weis and his wife Maura founded Hannah and Friends, a nonprofit organiza­tion to improve the lives of chil­dren and adults with special needs. They began the organi­zation in recognition of their daughter, Hannah, who has developmental disorders. 
The Weis family currently lives in Kansas City, Mo., but continues its involvement with Hannah and Friends, which is still located in South Bend. 
Brian Kelly and his wife Paqui founded the Kelly Cares Foundation to support initiatives in education, women’s health and community. Paqui, a two-time breast cancer survivor, said the foundation’s focus includes breast cancer aware­ness and research. 
The Kellys started their foun­dation in 2008, while Brian was Cincinnati’s head football coach, but Paqui said it has grown and developed since moving to South Bend. 
“We did do a lot this past year,” Paqui said. “I feel like this is our first kickoff year.” 


Hannah and Friends has also expanded in the past year, since the September 2009 opening of its 30-acre farm in South Bend. The farm offers programming and residential opportunities for people with special needs. 
Sharon Bui-Green, Hannah and Friends’ executive director, said the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communities remain highly involved with the organi­zation. 
“Football is what probably had most alums and most peo­ple in the community find out about Hannah and Friends,” 
see CHARITY/page 5 


SUB director Julia Sutton said despite having a large budget, the range of events SUB plans throughout the year limits the amount of money the programmers can spend on the major spring concert. 
“We love taking suggestions 
see FUNDING/page 4 


Lease fair provides off-campus information 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Students who are consider­ing moving off campus can explore their living options today at student govern ­ment’s Lease Fair. 
“We decided to have a Lease Fair largely in part because we think students are unaware of what’s out there in terms of off-campus housing, ” junior Emily LeStrange, the Off-Campus Concerns Senate chair, said. “We wanted to create an event where students could learn about lease agreements and get some information about what living off campus is like.” 
LeStrange said the Lease Fair will feature 16 landlords and leasing agencies, includ­ing Irish Crossings, Kramer Properties and Stadium Club. 
“Students can meet with 
see LEASE/page 4 

ROTC OBSERVES VETERANS DAY 

Panel addresses state of humanities 

By REBECCA MORIARTY 
News Writer 
In a Wednesday panel dis­cussion, professors dis ­cussed perceptions of the humanities as a declining field that is becoming less attractive to college stu ­dents. 
The panel, sponsored by the Nanovic Institute, was titled “Humanities in peril: does Notre Dame have an answer?” 
Susannah Monta, associate professor of English, moder­ated the panel. In her open­ing remarks, she said the perceived crisis in humani­ties is not necessarily nega­tive. 

“Crisis can also mean a turning point,” Monta said. “We must not stop at the col­loquial understanding.” 
John McGreevy, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said the existence of a crisis in the humanities depends on how one exam­ines the question. 
“This crisis both exists and does not,” McGreevy said. 
It is real because there are fewer opportunities for grad­uate students in this area of study and fewer students are enrolling in humanities courses, he said. However, there is also no crisis because degrees in the humanities still provide an excellent base for students looking to enter the fields of law, medicine and business. 
Overall, the panelists agreed the humanities are 
see LECTURE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, November 11, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY:  AKE A WISH ...
THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Eric Prister Kristen Durbin Katie Heit Sara Felsenstein Megan Finneran 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Alex Kilpatrick 
Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Megan Kozak 
OFFBEAT 

Woman harassed drivers by repeatedly braking 
ABERDEEN, N.J. — Authorities accused a New Jersey woman of repeatedly harassing driv­ers on the Garden State Parkway by braking repeatedly, causing other motorists to tailgate. Karen Born, 52, was free on $27,500 bail, charged with harassment, falsely incriminating others and filing false reports to law enforcement. 
State Police Sgt. Brian Polite told the Asbury Park Press that state troopers issued a warrant for Born’s arrest after 22 incidents of alleged harassment over the sum­mer. 
Aly Sullivan  Audrey Vitter  Kurt Nowak  Jim Jennings  Jimmy Simonse  Kenneth Schlax  
sophomore  sophomore  senior  freshman  junior  senior  
Walsh  Badin  Duncan  Morrissey  O’Neill  Keenan  

“To be in the “Get an A on “To get snow.” “To beat Utah.” “To swing on a “That my mom Question of the my physics star and carry has an Day.” test.” moon beams awesome home in a jar.” birthday!” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Polite said Born would call police after the other driver pulled over and claim the other driver was harassing and stalking her. 
It was not clear whether Born had retained an attorney. 
Woman sentenced for taking meter-reader scooter 
MISSOULA, Mont. —A transient who stole a Missoula meter-reader scooter and took it on a brief joyride before crashing it into a parked car has been sentenced to a year under the supervi­sion of the Department of Corrections. District Judge Dusty Deschamps sentenced 43 -year-old Carey Sterling on Tuesday. However, he 
ordered her to remain jailed until she can pay $500 in restitution and $240 in court costs. 
Sterling has been in custody since her arrest in May on the felony theft charge. She was unem­ployed at the time of her arrest. 
Sterling told the judge she is eligible for about $3,000 in benefits that she hasn’t applied for, partly because she hadn’t lived in one place long enough to file the paper­work and because she has been in jail. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The film “October Country” will be shown today at 6:30 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film offers a moving portrait 
of 
contemporary working class life as the family strug­gles to overcome the demons of the past and create the 

opportunity 
for a better tomorrow. 


The lecture, “How the Catholic Church’s Teachings 
on Abortion, Sex, and Marriage are Pro-women” will take place today at 7:30 
p.m. Catholic Pro-Life author and speaker Erika Bachiochi will give the lecture in the Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall. The event is free and open to the public. 
RecSports will begin accepting entries for Interhall Basketball and GFS Basketball through today. Entries will be accepted on a first come, first serve basis. To enter, bring a completed Entry Form and your team fee to the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center front desk. 
Professor of Political Science, Binghamton University, Patrick Regan, will present the lecture, “Do Interventions Start Civil Wars?” today at 12:30 p.m. in room C-103 in the Hesburgh Center. Regan’s work covers a range of issues such as the militarization of societies, determinants of human rights violations, negotiations in international conflict resolution, the onset of civil war, and interventions in civil wars. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY GAME DAY SUNDAY MONday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



67 49 HIGH 6752 4347
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


43 43 LOW 4548 3134 







Thurdsay, November 11, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SENATE 

Groupdebateselectionchanges 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student Senate discussed changes to the process for allega­tions made against candidates in student body elections on Wednesday, with senators unani­mously passing a resolution rear­ranging the election committee that reviews these allegations and determines sanctions when a rule is broken. 
Oversight chair Paige Becker and Judicial Council president Marcelo Perez explained the origi­nal system and the proposed changes to the senators. 
“What we are addressing through these changes is what happens when, during an election someone, files an allegation against someone who is running for office,” Becker said. 
Before this amendment, the election committee was comprised of 29 hall election coordinators appointed by hall presidents for each dorm. These coordinators met when an allegation was made to decide if it was valid and should be reviewed. They passed valid allegations to an executive com­mittee of six election coordinators. 
The executive committee would then hear from the accused and the accuser. If the committee found the allegation to be true, its members would decide on a sanc­tion. 
Perez said the changes to the system would make it clearer and easier. Most of the allegations made are about candidates who break rules campaigning, and most sanctions usually involve cuts in campaign funding, Perez said. 
“One of the problems with this system is that hall election coordi­nators are not always appointed in time for the Freshman Class Council (FCC) elections,” Becker said. 


Allegations also fell through in the past because not enough members of the election commit­tee could meet on short notice, Perez said. 
“Inefficiency can really be important to this process because during these campaigns, time is of the essence,” Becker said. 
To address these problems, the new body will constitute one elec­tion committee made of seven vot­ing members chosen through an interview process. It will also include two non-voting members as the Senate Liaison to the Judicial Council and the Oversight committee chair. 
“These committee members will be selected from the student body at large and cannot hold any other student government position,” Becker said. “What we want is someone from the student body at large who has separation from the elections.” 

The Student Senate will still be able to appeal a decision made by the election committee. 
“The Senate’s purpose is to check the election committee,” Becker said. “The election com­mittee’s purpose is to make fair and knowledgeable decisions on the details on an allegation.” 
Hall election coordinators will still run elections within each dorm, Becker said. 
Knott Hall senator Alex Kasparie said the Oversight Committee looked into all possibil­ities to adjust the system. 
“As a member of the Oversight Committee, I would like to say that his resolution has been a long time coming,” Kasparie said. “We have put a lot of effort into making sure that this is the most effective and fair amendment we could propose.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
SGAaddresses College readership,renovations 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

The Student Government Association (SGA) discussed the Le Mans Hall basement renovation and the Saint Mary’s Readership Program at Wednesday’s meeting. 
Student body president Rachael Chesley started the meeting by talking about a meeting with the designer who will be leading the proj­ect to renovate Le Mans Hall. 
“We presented her with all the ideas we talked about last week,” Chesley said. “There are a lot of possibili­ties that can be done down there.” 
Different ideas have included a television area, pool table and ping-pong table. Chesley said the base­ment would be split into eight zones, and SGA’s next steps would be to brainstorm what should go in those zones and to choose a theme color for the area. 
“We want it to be a really fun area that is engaging and interactive,” Chesley said. 
SGA will create a commit­tee to discuss what should be done in Le Mans and they are trying to adhere to a par­ticular time frame, she said. Chesley said they hope to have the project completed when students return from Spring Break. To meet that deadline, SGA will finalize the ideas at the beginning of spring semester. 
“First, we want to have the color we want down there,” Chesley said. “Then, after the color we pick the finish that we want down there. It’s a huge room so it all has to kind of connect still and off of that we have to think of furniture.” 
In addition to the discus­sion of the basement renova­tions, the Board also spent time reviewing the campus’ readership program, which SGA sponsors to supply stu­dents with free copies of USA Today, The New York Times and The South Bend Tribune. 
“We want to bring aware­ness to the program because it is a great thing we have here on campus so we looked at what other colleges are doing,” Chesley said. 
The Board discussed host­ing “coffee-house style” meetings with professors at Dalloway’s — the campus clubhouse — and having the professor pick an article and present it to students. Chesley said students know about the free access to newspapers on campus, but they don’t always realize SGA sponsors it. 
The Board also talked about giving out prizes to students are “caught read­ing.” Students seen reading the newspaper could be given prizes by members of SGA, Chesley said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, November 11, 2010 
pare what cer­tain properties offer and what others don’t in order to come to a more informed deci­sion about off-campus hous­ing.” 
LeSt range said it is important to learn what to look for when signing a lease. 
“We want to show students that it’s impor­tant to ask questions 

“We want to show students that it’s important to ask questions about the landlord’s renting policies before signing a legal and binding contract with him or her.” 
Emily LeStrange chair Off-campus Concerns 
about the landlord’s renting policies before signing a legal and binding contract with him or her,” she said. 
Student government decided to host the Lease Fair because many students start making decisions about living off campus with friends dur­ing the fall semester, LeStrange said. 
“Some houses are coveted by students and can be swept 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
not compelling for students due to a lack of understand­ing about what the field encompasses and a lack of vibrant humanities programs. 
Film, Television and Theatre professor Peter Holland said the humanities remain strong at Notre Dame because of the University’s Catholic identity. Humanities courses such as theology and philosophy are in the College of Arts and Letters, making them all interconnected. 
McGreevy said Notre Dame’s philosophy and theol­is central to their beND com­munity outreach campaign. 
“The Lease Fair is another way student government encourages stu­dents to explore housing options in the communi­ty, with the hope that we can strengthen the South Bend community by integrating our­selves deeper in 
our surround ­ings,” she said. 
“South Bend has a lot of great places and people to rent from, and this event allows students to get to know them.” 
The Lease Fair will take place today from 11 a.m. until 3 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom and will feature a variety of giveaways. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
ogy requirements highlight the University’s commitment to the humanities. 
“Our requirements make humanities more important at Notre Dame, which is unusual when viewed nationally,” McGreevy said. 
History professor Felipe Fernandez-Armesto said it is especially important to emphasize the interconnect­edness between disciplines in the humanities. Universities could increase unity between areas of study by eliminating departments, he said. 
“We must focus on the unity of knowledge,” Fernandez-Armestro said. 
Contact Rebecca Moriarty at rmoriar2@nd.edu 

Emanuel plans to formalizeintentions 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Former White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel plans to make official this weekend what everyone already knows: He's running for mayor of Chicago. 
An Emanuel campaign aide confirmed the plans to The Associated Press on Wednesday evening. The aide spoke on con­dition of anonymity because he didn't want to pre-empt Emanuel's announcement planned for Saturday. 
Emanuel resigned from the White House last month and has since been gathering signatures, raising funds and campaigning throughout the Chicago area. 
He plans to make his announcement at Coonley Elementary School on Chicago's North Side, which is in the same congressional district Emanuel once represented, the aide said. 
Candidates who want to run in the February election must sub­mit petitions with more than 12,000 signatures by Nov. 22. 
Chicago Mayor Richard Daley announced in September that he wouldn't seek a seventh term. 
Since then, a slew of candi­dates have surfaced as potential successors. 
Those that have formally announced their candidacy include are City Clerk Miguel del Valle and former Chicago school board president Gery Chico. 
Many others have said they are preparing a run or received backing from interest groups. 
Former U.S. Sen. Carol Moseley Braun has opened a campaign office on the city's South Side, Democratic U.S. Rep. Danny Davis received an endorsement from a coalition of black leaders and supports of State Sen. James Meeks have been circling peti­tions around the city. 
Funding 
continued from page 1 
from students, but most of campus does not realize how expensive a lot of talent can be,” Sutton said. “Most of the suggestions we receive are more than our entire budget. Lil Wayne, for example, is about four times our entire budget.” 
SUB treasurer Pat Sturm said in addition to funding a larger annual spring concert, the SUB budget covers AcoustiCafe, Antostal, cam­pus entertainment like The White Panda concert, the Collegiate Jazz Festival, weekly movies, the Notre Dame Literary Festival and other special events. Money is also spent on guest speak­ers, cultural events and foot­ball ticket lotteries. 

“Our budget and the Street Commons Block Party spring semester. University do not really for-or DeBartolo lounge renova-“If, in the winter, we see mally limit tions,” Soler that a group did a great job us, but we said. “An impor-with their budget all semes­have a mis -tant component ter and did not overspend or sion to pro-“It would be great to of those deci -under-spend we take that mote viable sions is just into serious consideration,” 
put all our money 

on -campus being responsi-Hurtubise said. “We then go 
toward a big concert 

p r o g r a m -ble with the through a reallocation ming,” Sturm but we fnd it better funds. process in January that said. “It Student body might give some groups more 
to provide 

would be executive con -funding for the spring semes­
programming 

great to put troller Caitlin ter.” all our throughout the year.” Pulte, who over-Of the total amount distrib­m o n e y sees student uted by FMB, Sturm said 85 toward a big government ’s percent came from student 
Pat Sturm 

concert, but budget, said stu-activity fees included in 
treasurer 

we find it dent government tuition, 12 percent from The better to pro-Student Union Board also manages Shirt proceeds and 3 percent 

Lease 
continued from page 1 
different landlords and learn about their leasing policies and see what properties they have available for rent for the next academic year, ” she said. “They’ll be able to com-up pretty quickly if you’re not thinking about your senior year plans yet,” she said. “I also think it’s a time when students are considering their abroad options and may be thinking about living plans for junior year too.” 
LeStrange said student gov­ernment sees the Lease Fair as a community event, which vide pro ­gramming throughout the year.” 
Programming events that appeal to all types of stu­dents is a priority for SUB, and those events cost money. The Collegiate Jazz Festival and the Notre Dame Literary Festival cost around $20,000 each, Sturm said. 
“Obviously a large portion of what we spend is directed toward our big concert in the second half of the year,” Sturm said. “That concert is about 30 or 40 percent of our budget. Then we have other programs that get a different portion of that money, too.” 
SUB’s budget breaks down to about $25 per person in student activity fees, Sturm said. 
“We have a dual mission because we would like to be doing the biggest concerts we could with what we are given,” Sturm said. “But we have some programs that have been around a long time that need money as well.” 
Student body president Catherine Soler said Notre Dame’s Student Union struc­ture, which splits funds between SUB and student government, is unique in comparison with other schools. 
“It has been interesting this year when we communi­cated with our counterparts at other universities to see what they receive financial­ly,” Soler said. “Some state schools may have larger budgets but they are not split up the way we are.” 
When Soler and student body vice president Andrew Bell were elected to their offices last spring, the first step to putting their platform into practice was considering how their ideas fit their budget. 
“The budget definitely comes into perspective when you want to do large scale programming like the Eddy the funds for the 

weekend Transpo routes and newspa­pers available on campus. Transpo costs about $15,000. 
“Transpo is 100 percent worth that piece of the budg­et,” Pulte said. “Students pack the buses every week-from endowment returns. 
SUB received more funding from FMB than any other single group this year. Only the sum of funds allocated to all student clubs exceeded the amount SUB received. 
“We are the only full-cam­pus programming body,” 
end and really appreciate the service.” 
The student government budget also includes office expenses and advertising for student government events. One event typically demands around $200 for posters and other adverti se­ments around campus, Pulte said. 
“I think our budget works for what we Sutton said. “We are geared toward the largest amount 

“We are the only 
of people so we 

full-campus 
make more use programming body. of our funds. We are geared Our scope is a lot larger than 
toward the largest 
any other amount of people so group.” 
we make more use of SUB encour 
-ages its pro ­

our funds. Our scope 
grammers to is a lot larger than make use of the 
any other group.” resources avail­able to them, Sturm said. 
Julia Sutton 
“The great director thing about Student Union Board SUB is that we 
want to do,” Pulte said. “We put on different kinds of events than SUB.” 
The Financial Management Board (FMB), led by Hurtubise, allocated the total Student Union budget in April. FMB distributed money between clubs, class councils, student govern ­ment, the Student Union Board (SUB) and other organizations. Each group requested a certain amount of funding based on its plans for the upcoming year. 
“Every spring all these groups fill out a budget pro­posal,” Hurtubise said. “They identify what they think they will spend on different events all year long, what they want to budget for each of their divisions, what their ideas and what the numbers from last year were.” 
After the fall semester, the Board will review the budg­ets again and reallocate some of the funds for the have a lot of 
freedom to do 
what we think is best for the student body, and do it in a creative fash­ion,” Sturm said. 
Programmers walk the line between quality and quanti­ty, Sutton said. 
“We want to do something for everyone, but we do not plan something unless we would want to go to the event ourselves,” Sutton said. 
Hurtubise said there is not enough money to give every student group the full amount of money they would like. 
“In the spring, everyone comes in new and excited to put on all these great events,” Hurtubise said. “We want to give everyone the full amount they request but we do not have the money to go around for every group to do everything they want to do.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Thursday, November 11, 2010 The Observer . NEWS page 5 
Charity 
continued from page 1 
Bui-Green said. “But once they found out about us … it became greater than football.” 
Earlier this month, Bui-Green said Dillon Hall residents spent a day at the Hannah and Friends farm for community service and students from Pasquerilla East Hall partici­
pated in a “ladies’ night” with adult resi­dents. 
“People just have an innate desire to help others, and us being so close to campus I think students continue to do that,” Bui-Green said. 
Bui -Green said Maura Weis still checks in with 
Hannah and Friends’ staff on a weekly basis and visits fre­quently. 
“We’re still a very mom-and­pop organization that they’re actively participating in,” she said. 

In 2011, Maura and Hannah Weis plans to move back to South Bend. The Weis family decided the move would pro­vide Hannah with consistency and allow her to participate in Hannah and Friends’ program­ming, Bui-Green said. 
The Kelly Cares Foundation, like Hannah and Friends, involves a large commitment 
“We’re still a very mom-and-pop organization that [the Weis family is] actively participating in.” 
Sharon Bui-Green executive director Hannah and Friends 
from its founders. 
Paqui Kelly said since moving to South Bend, she has spent an increased amount of time working with Kelly Cares. 
“I think previ­ously it seemed more that I would be at the events, but now it’s more of a grassroots, where I’m pretty 

much the base that goes with the Kelly Cares Foundation,” she said. “At this point it is full time … but it’s a great and rewarding new venue for me.” 
Kelly Cares hosted fundrais­ers this year through golf out­ings, Football 101 events with Coach Kelly and other speaking events. 
Paqui said part of the inspira­tion to begin the foundation 
came from feel­ing blessed dur­ing her own bat­tles with breast cancer. She ben­efited from early detection and proactive healthcare and had the support of family and friends through­out her treat­ments. 
“I learned some things ing that word, that in itself will help save people’s lives,” she said. 
Kelly Cares also works in other areas, such as education. The foundation has already donated to Notre Dame’s Hesburgh Library and the 
“We just hope that in spreading the word [about breast cancer], that in itself will help save people’s lives.” 
Paqui Kelly co-founder Kelly Cares Foundation 

[during my own treatments] and I think at the end of the day you see those lights come and you say, ‘what should I be doing?’” she said. 
Breast cancer awareness is a major aspect of the Kelly Cares mission. As part of this initia­tive, the foundation sold pink wristbands during the month of October. 
“We just hope that in spread-Robinson Community Learning Center in South Bend. 
The founda­tion will issue a press release early in 2011 announcing more initiatives, which Kelly said are not yet finalized. 
Beyond foot­ball and coach­ing records, 
Bui-Green said it is important that football coaches make an impact in the larger communi­ty. 
“[Weis’] legacy had made a tremendous impact on so many people,” she said. “It makes me really proud to be a part of his organization.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Cracks found in Discovery fuel tank 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — NASA discovered cracks in Discovery’s fuel tank Wednesday, an added prob­lem that will complicate try­ing to launch the space shut­tle on its final voyage this year. 
The two cracks — each 9 inches long — were found on the exterior of the aluminum tank, beneath a larger crack in the insulating foam that covers the 15-story tank. The cracks are in an area that holds instruments, not fuel. 
NASA spokesman Allard Beutel said engineers believe the tank can be repaired at the launch pad, although it’s never been tried before. It’s unclear, though, whether the work can be done in time to meet a Nov. 30 launch attempt. 
Discovery was grounded Friday by a hydrogen gas leak that cropped up during fuel­ing Friday. It was the latest in a weeklong string of technical and weather postponements. A 20-inch crack in the foam was discovered soon after the last countdown was halted. 
NASA managers said at the time they did not know if the foam crack itself would have postponed liftoff. But on Wednesday, officials said they will not attempt another launch until the foam and tank are patched. 
The space agency has been cautious about fuel-tank foam ever since a slab broke off during Columbia’s 2003 launch and pierced the left wing. The shuttle was destroyed during re-entry. 
Discovery — NASA’s oldest and most-traveled shuttle — must be flying by Dec. 6 or so, otherwise the flight to the International Space Station will be off until approximately February. That’s because the Russians need to launch a new station crew in mid-December, creating a blackout period for a visiting shuttle. Then early next year, there is a series of unmanned supply ships, as well as a span of unacceptable solar angles. 
The cracks in the ribbed section of the tank — the so-called central intertank region — were discovered as workers removed pieces of the damaged foam for analy­sis. This region joins the upper oxygen and lower hydrogen chambers that make up the rust -colored tank. 
Since that section contains only instruments, no explosive fuel would have leaked, had the shuttle launched with the defects. 
Beutel said it’s possible NASA may have unknowingly launched shuttles in the past with these type of cracks in the tank. If it wasn’t for the cracks traveling up to the sur­face of the foam this time, they would have gone unno­ticed, he noted. The tank is discarded once a shuttle reaches orbit and breaks up while plunging back through the atmosphere. 


page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 11, 2010 
Federal grand jury indicts ‘Barefoot Bandit’ 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — The 19-year-old “Barefoot Bandit,” who is accused in a two-year string of thefts from Washington state to the Caribbean, was indicted Wednesday by a federal grand jury in Seattle. 
Colton Harris-Moore was indicted on charges including interstate transportation of a stolen aircraft and being a fugitive in possession of a firearm, the U.S. Attorney’s Office announced. 
“The grand jury action today is an important step in holding Colton Harris-Moore account­able for his criminal conduct,” said U.S. Attorney Jenny A. Durkan. 
Harris-Moore faces up to 10 years in prison each for four of the counts. He remains in a federal detention center in SeaTac, Wash., and is sched­uled to be arraigned on the indictment Nov. 18. 
A message left with Harris­Moore’s attorney, John Henry Browne, was not immediately returned. 
After a two-year run from the law, Harris-Moore was caught July 10 in the Bahamas, a week after author­ities say he crash-landed an airplane stolen from an Indiana airport. Bahamian authorities launched an exten­sive manhunt for the teenager and arrested him as he tried to flee in a boat. 

Harris-Moore’s story caught the attention of the nation. A fan club on Facebook boasts more than 23,000 members. Executives from movie and tel­evision production companies inquired about his story. 
The self-taught pilot is sus­pected in more than 70 crimes across nine states since he walked away from a halfway house in April 2008, many of them in Washington’s bucolic islands. 
Harris-Moore was deported by the Bahamas to the U.S. after pleading guilty to illegally entering the island nation east of Miami. The U.S. embassy paid a $300 fine on his behalf. 
He was returned to Washington state a few days after his arrest. 
The grand jury focused on four different incidents. In one, Harris-Moore is accused of stealing a Cessna from Idaho and flying it to Washington state in September 2009. He’s also accused of stealing a boat from Washington and sailing it to Oregon in May of this year. 
Prosecutors also say Harris-Moore stole a .32 caliber pistol in Canada and carried it to the United States. 
Harris-Moore is nicknamed the “Barefoot Bandit” because police say he wore no shoes during some of the thefts he’s accused of committing. 

Smart ends testimony against kidnapper 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY — Elizabeth Smart testified Wednesday that the street preacher accused of kidnapping her in 2002 fre­quently prayed that the teenag­er would fulfill her marital duty of having sex — something she said was “about the farthest thing” from her prayers. 
Smart took the stand a third day and gave a spirited rejec­tion of Brian David Mitchell’s defense contention that he suf­fers from an escalating mental illness and holds extreme reli­gious beliefs that lead him to think he is directed by God. 
Mitchell was a crude, vulgar, self-serving person who used religion to justify his actions, including her kidnapping and rape over nine months, she said, calling him a hypocrite. 
“He was his number one pri­ority, followed by sex, drugs and alcohol, but he used reli­gion in all of those aspects to justify everything,” Smart said in a clear voice, confidently expressing her own religious knowledge. 
“Nine months of living with him and seeing him proclaim that he was God’s servant and called to do God’s work and everything he did to me and my family is something that I know that God would not tell some­body to do,” she said. “God would never tell someone to kidnap her at knifepoint from their bed, from her sister’s side ... never continue to rape her and sexually abuse her.” 
Smart finished her testimony Wednesday morning after about 30 minutes of cross-examina­tion by a defense lawyer for Mitchell, who’s accused of tak­ing her from home knifepoint on June 5, 2002, when she was 14. 
Mitchell, 57, is charged in federal court with kidnapping and unlawful transportation of a minor across state lines. If convicted, he faces a life sen­tence. 
Now 23, Smart was found in March 2003 with Mitchell on the streets of a Salt Lake City suburb. 
In previous testimony, she said during those nine months that she endured almost daily rapes and was forced to drink alcohol, use drugs and view pornography. 
On the night of her kidnap­ping, Smart said Mitchell led her to a mountainside camp above Salt Lake City, where she was stripped of her red paja­mas and dressed in white robes before being forced to marry him in a quickie ceremony Mitchell performed himself. 
Mitchell also repeatedly threatened that Smart, her fam­ily, or anyone who tried to help her would be killed if she ever tried to escape. 
Smart said she did reach out for help on one of the trips she made with Mitchell and his now-estranged wife, Wanda Eileen Barzee, from their camp­site. 
“Ms. Barzee took me into the bathroom at the Hard Rock Cafe and I tried to scratch ‘help’ into the bathroom stall,” Smart said. 
Much of Wednesday’s testimo­ny centered on Mitchell’s use of faith and his writing, “The Book of Immanuel David Isaiah,” a rambling tome that outlines his own brand of religions that mixed Bible teachings with the early doctrine of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and New Age philosophers. 
Smart said she had read the book and Mitchell had spoken of it with her but that she had never heard him discuss his controversial ideas about faith 
— including polygamy — with anyone else. 
During a short cross-exami­nation, Smart was asked by fed­eral public defender Robert Steele whether Mitchell’s use of prayers and blessings seemed familiar to her own practice of Mormonism. 
Smart said there was some similarity, but Mitchell used spoken prayers to manipulate her and Barzee, including to have sex. 
“The things that he would say in his prayers were things that I would never have said,” she replied. 
“He would say, ‘Please bless me,’ [Smart], that I would be able to cope with my wifely duties and be able to rise to the occasion and fulfill my wifely duties. That is about the far­thest thing from my prayers.” 
Prosecutors also began ques­tioning other witnesses Wednesday, including the Salt Lake City homicide detective who questioned Mitchell about Smart’s identity in a downtown library. 
Following up on a tip about a girl whose eyes matched those in a picture of Smart, Detective Jon Richey said he asked Mitchell if the veil across the young girl’s face could be removed so he could verify that she was not the missing girl. 
The trial resumes Monday because of the Veterans Day holiday and is expected to last into December. 
Thursday, November 11, 2010 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Tugboats tow disabled cruise ship back to U.S. 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — The food on the disabled cruise ship Carnival Splendor is cold and the lines to get it stretch for hours. 
And with the pool and casi­nos closed and rooms pitch black and stuffy, the nearly 4,500 people and crew on board passed the time with live music, scavenger hunts and trivia contests as they are slowly towed to San Diego. 
The bar is also open and offering free drinks. 
Two tugboats were pulling the 952-foot ship back to the 
U.S. The journey could take at least until late Thursday. 
The ship entered cell phone range on Wednesday and the crew set up a bank of eight Satellite phones, allowing pas­sengers mostly cut off from communication since an engine fire disabled the vessel on Monday to finally reach loved ones — and provide the first details of the conditions on board. 
Among them was David Zambrano, who phoned his employer, Denver TV station 9NEWS, and said people were trying to keep their spirits up by singing, socializing and playing cards. 
Rooms in the interior of the ship were dark, and passen­gers propped open their doors to let in air and emergency lighting from the hallways, Zambrano said. 
“So really, all we’re doing is just kind of hanging out on a boat waiting for the next mealtime,” Zambrano said. 
Mealtime requires a two-hour wait for cold food, he said. Navy helicopters flew in Spam, Pop Tarts and canned crab meat and other goods for the passengers and crew. 
“It’s almost like a diet cruise because we’ve been eating sal­ads and fruit and small sand­wiches,” Zambrano said. 
Carnival CEO Gerry Cahill said the challenges on the cruise ship are unlike any oth­ers his company has faced in its 35-year history. 
“The conditions on the ship have been challenging and we are very, very sorry for the discomfort and the inconven­ience that our guests have had to deal with in the past several days,” Cahill said at a news conference in San Diego. “They signed up for a great cruise vacation and obviously that is not what they received.” 
Gina Calzada, 43, of Henderson, Nev., said her dia­betic sister, Vicky, called her Wednesday morning on her cell phone and started sob­bing. She said she has not been able to take her insulin for her diabetes because she is not eating enough. 
She told Calzada all that she had eaten was some bread, cucumbers and lettuce. “I told her where are the Pop Tarts and the Spam? I thought they brought in 70,000 pounds of supplies,” Calzada said. “She said I haven’t seen that.” 
Alvarez and her husband saved up for months to take the cruise to celebrate their wedding anniversary of more than 20 years and her 48th birthday, which was on Nov. 4. They had not been able to take a vacation for years because Alvarez was caring for their aging mother, who died in June. 
“She said it stinks of rotten food and smoke,” Calzada said. “It’s dark, and it’s cold.’” 
Her sister then passed the phone to her husband because she was crying too hard, Calzada said. He told Calzada that when he went looking for food for his wife, a crew mem­ber told him to give her a Tic-Tac. 
“That really made my broth-er-in-law upset,” Calzada said. 
Cahill said he did not have information about Alvarez to immediately comment. 
Passengers were being entertained with bands and board games, and were being offered free drinks at the bar and the option of sleeping out on the deck, he said. 
The Splendor left Long Beach on Sunday for a seven-day trip to the Mexican Riviera. The ship was 200 miles south of San Diego and about 44 miles off shore when the engine room fire killed its power. 
No one was hurt, but those on board were left without air conditioning, hot water or Internet service. Most tele­phone service had been knocked out. The ship’s auxil­iary power allowed for work­ing toilets and cold water, Carnival spokesman Vance Gulliksen said. 
Dawn Gill said her son Daniel Gill board the ship with his wife, Kendall, and the Pheonix couple had been cele­brating their honeymoon. 
“Once we knew there were no injuries, and there’s no pirates or terrorist attack, and there’s no imminent danger kind of thing, it’s just incon­venience,” said Dawn Gill. “We’re laughing it’s like, it had to be Dan and Kendall’s wed­ding, it just had to be, and it’s going to be great conversation at Thanksgiving when the family gets together. Just what a great way to start out, it’s got to go up from here.” 
The U.S. Navy resupplied the ship on Tuesday with thou­sands of pounds of food and other supplies ferried by heli­copter from the USS Ronald Reagan, an aircraft carrier diverted from maneuvers 


Plan curbs social security 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — In a politi­cally incendiary plan, the bipartisan leaders of President Barack Obama’s deficit com­mission proposed curbs in Social Security benefits, deep reductions in federal spending and higher taxes for millions of Americans Wednesday to stem a flood of red ink that they said threatens the nation’s very future. 
The White House responded coolly, some leading lawmak­ers less so to proposals that target government programs long considered all but sacred. Besides Social Security, Medicare spending would be curtailed. Tax breaks for many health care plans, too. And the Pentagon’s budget, as well, in a plan designed to cut total deficits by as much as $4 tril­lion over the next decade. 
The plan arrived exactly one week after elections that fea­tured strong voter demands for economic change in Washington. But criticism was immediate from advocacy groups on the left and, to some extent, the right at the start of the post-election debate on painful steps necessary to rein in out-of-control deficits. 
The plan would gradually increase the retirement age for full Social Security benefits — to 69 by 2075 — and current recipients would receive small­er-than-anticipated annual increases. Equally controver­sial, it would eliminate the cur­rent tax deduction that home­owners receive for the interest they pay on their mortgages. 
No one is expecting quick action on any of the plan’s pieces. Proposed cuts to Social Security and Medicare are making liberals recoil. And conservative Republicans are having difficulty with options suggested for raising taxes. The plan also calls for cuts in farm subsidies, foreign aid and the Pentagon’s budget. 
The document was released by Democrat Erskine Bowles, a former Clinton White House chief of staff, and Republican Alan Simpson, a former sena­tor from Wyoming. 

Acknowledging the contro­versy involved, Simpson quipped to reporters: “We’ll both be in a witness protection program when this is all over, so look us up.” Said Bowles: “This is a starting point.” 
Controversial or not, Bowles said serious action was demanded. He declared, “This debt is like a cancer that will truly destroy this country from within if we don’t fix it.” 
The government reported separately Wednesday that the deficit for last month alone was $140.4 billion — and that was 20 percent lower than a year earlier. The red ink for all of the past fiscal year was $1.29 trillion, second highest on record, and this year is headed for the third straight total above $1 trillion. 
Current deficits require the government to borrow 37 cents out of every dollar it spends. 
Still, the plan was rejected as “simply unacceptable” by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., a top Obama ally. 
The White House held its fire. Said spokesman Bill Burton, “The president will wait until the bipartisan fiscal commission finishes its work before commenting.” He called the ideas “only a step in the process.” 
The Social Security proposal would change the inflation measurement used to calculate cost-of-living adjustments for benefits, reducing annual increases. It immediately drew a withering assault from advo­cates for seniors, who are already upset that there will be no inflation increase for 2011, the second straight year. 
The plan would also raise the regular Social Security retirement age to 68 by about 2050 and to 69 in 2075. The full retirement age for those retiring now is 66. For those born in 1960 or after, the full retirement age is now 67. 
Better-off beneficiaries would receive smaller Social Security payments than those in lower earning brackets under the proposal, and the amount of income subject to Social Security taxes would be increased. 
“The chairmen of the Deficit Commission just told working Americans to ‘Drop Dead,’” AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka said in a statement. 
From the right, anti-tax activist Grover Norquist — whose opinions carry great weight among Republicans — blasted the plan for its $1 tril­lion in tax increases over the coming decade. But Bowles and Simpson say eliminating costly tax deductions could bring income tax rates way down. 
For every $1 of new revenue, the plan demands $3 in spend­ing cuts, and that was accept­able to panel member Tom Coburn, a Republican senator from Oklahoma. “If we do the cuts, I’ll go for it,” he said. “We may have to go for some rev­enues at some point.” 
The entire commission is supposed to report a deficit-cutting plan on Dec. 1, but panel members are unsure whether they’ll be able to agree on anything approaching deficit cuts of the size pro­posed. And even if they could, any vote in Congress this year would be nonbinding, Simpson said. 
This is not a proposal I could support,” said panel member Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-Ill. “On Medicare and Social Security in particular, there are proposals that I could not support.” 
The release of the plan fol­lows midterm elections that gave Republicans the House majority and increased their numbers in the Senate. During the campaign, neither political party talked of spending cuts of the magnitude offered Wednesday, with Republicans proposing $100 billion in cuts to domestic programs passed each year by Congress — but with no specifics. 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, November 11, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Farewell LyonsHall 
It’s horrifying to think that the number of times I’ll be walking under the Lyons arch and scanning into the building I’ve called home is limited to the five remaining weeks of this semes­
ter. Molly Sammon There are 
Assistant
plenty of things 

Sports Editor
I’ll miss about that place: hav­ing my closest friends down the hall, down the stairs, being next door to the Rock and Joey, the stuffed Lion. 
There are also plenty of things I won’t miss: the closet-sized dorm rooms, heaters with a deafening clang that all seem to go off at the same time and the dated, brownish glow of the interior decoration that characterizes any building older than my grandparents. 
Though the benefits of sororitized living outweigh any negatives that come with the age of the building, I’m sure there are many reasons Lyons is ready to see me go. 
I should start off by apologizing to each of my neighbors for my alarm clock every morning. I know it’s amazing that I cannot ever hear it, even though I’m sure it would wake up most people on campus if it were placed on the 50-yard line of Notre Dame Stadium. For this, a sole apology will have to suffice, so I am sorry for any morning aggravation this may have caused you guys in Lyons, and possibly a few in Morrissey too. 
I should also apologize for that time I put my popcorn in the microwave for five minutes instead of two because I accidentally pressed the wrong button and my slightly dyslexic brain did not pick up on the error. I guess this was less of an inconvenience to you guys as it was to the Notre Dame Fire Department that had to spend a good amount of their day sifting through the layers of smoke that enveloped the first floor and part of the second. For that event I am sorry, and I never did try making popcorn again. 
This might also be a good time to say sorry about the time I left my grab n’ go in the trash can too long, or the drying racks I’ve left in the hallway too long, for all the late nights where I forgot my ID card and stayed inside the foyer banging on the door until someone woke up. I’m sorry for my New York Times subscription that clogs up the mail-room. I’m sorry for stealing the left­over salad from the Mara Fox din­ner without asking anyone if that was okay. 
One thing you guys can thank me for is for single-handedly disproving the old tale that you have to marry the person you kiss under the Lyons arch — I can’t afford to have that many weddings. 
Looking at off-campus houses lately and all the paperwork, check-writing, research, kissing-up to parents or landlords and paying my own bills, I’ve come to realize that I’ve had it pretty easy in Lyons. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
David Bowie is dumb . . . 
I’ve been lying to myself about it for a long time, but I can’t deny it any longer: David Bowie is a terrible singer, a terri­ble songwriter and a terrible musician. I tried to nod along with the critical consensus that this ridiculous Brooks Smith poser is some sort 
Marc Bolan
of genius of 20th century rock, but the more of his music I heard and the more of his personal life and profession­al decisions I learned about, the more I thought he was an overinflated jerk. 
For instance, his decision to work with Brian Eno on a couple albums. “Well that’s all well and good,” you may say, “I don’t know much about that Eno fellow after all.” Basically, Brian Eno is the producer you call when you are a pretentious wanker and want to “art up” your music to give it some sem­blance of lasting significance. Other artists who have worked with Eno in the past: well-known pretentious wankers U2 and Coldplay, and solo pre­tentious wanker David Byrne (whose pretentious wankerdom was reined in by the earthy grooves and commitment to pop of his breakthrough band, Talking Heads). 
As you might have predicted, Eno’s influence on Bowie led him to make two of his worst records, “Low” and “Heroes.” These albums have become recognized as two of the biggest scams in rock history: in an era of two-sided LPs, only the first side of “Low” or “Heroes” contained “rock songs;” the second side was entirely padded with instrumental filler. By writing enough for one album and mixing a diluted con­coction of “rock” and instrumental filler on both of these albums, Eno and Bowie sold a single album for the price of two. 
Even more troubling was his associa-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
tion with the glam rock scene of the early 1970s, which I would liken to the hair metal craze of the 1980s in terms of lasting artistic value (to say nothing of fashion sense). The unfortunate fore­grounding of style over substance in a sub-Warholian attempt at pop subver­sion was the primary characteristic of most glam rockers, and Bowie was no exception: he happily painted his face with glitter in odd and inadvisable ways in order to attract attention to his prod­uct while diverting public discussion from the quality of his product to the quantity of his makeup. 
Let me be very clear on one point: Bowie’s flirtations with androgyny and bisexuality are not to be deprecated for their stylish glamorization of alternative sexualities, an important step in main­stream acceptance of the LGBTQ com­munity even if Bowie was merely haul­ing to the surface a hitherto merely implied tradition in rock and roll (among its honorable precedents, the immortal Little Richard and the revolu­tionary Velvet Underground) rather than making a great break with history. What irritated was the unmistakable stench of commercial calculation about his brazen appropriation of elements of gay culture — his decidedly non-altruis­tic motives for sparking this revolution in mainstream acceptance. 
Those two periods — glam-rock poser and art-rock poseur — cover most of his ‘golden boy’ period when he could do no wrong. After that he moved to some fairly dreadful disco simulations and has since spent his career misguidedly attempting to incorporate the various strains of dance and club music of the 80s and 90s into his music, which his defenders call artistic evolution and I call commercial desperation. He had lost his touch for the zeitgeist, and he would never regain it, fortunately enough for the survival of honest rock and roll unmediated by artistic preten­sions. 

I can’t think of another icon on Bowie’s level who recorded so few indelible tracks (perhaps 1-2) and so many dispensable competent simula­tions of “pure pop” (as distinguished from actual pure pop). Maybe Elton John, who never got pretentious about the honorable functionality of his music no matter if his lyricist, did. Even prop­erly located in the sizeable pantheon of the mildly overrated “classic rock” stars (Stones, Led, Dylan) Bowie is a cut below the rest, musically and themati­cally. His real genius was for a pompous theatrical flair that had little to do with rock and roll and everything to do with self-promotion. 
None of this is to disparage the many intelligent, informed and well-meaning people who have found happiness in Bowie’s music, of course. But popular consensus is no fit barometer of musical quality, not even among the intelligent, informed and well-meaning. After all, many of the people fitting that descrip­tion also fall into Coldplay’s fan base. Which speaks not to the gullibility of the intelligent (a well-known quantity), but to the targeted savviness of both artists’ self-promotion. Pretension is nothing new in pop music, but at least the Killers know bad poetry goes down a lit­tle easier with over-the-top ear-candy hooks. And at least the irritating coun­try-arena rockers Kings of Leon are straightforward about their sexuality. 
Brooks Smith is a senior. He can be reached at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laughat them in our turn?” 
Jane Austen English Novelist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The only limit to our realization oftomorrow will be our doubts of today. Let us move forward with strong and active faith.” 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, November 11, 2010 page 9 
The courage to say ‘I’m sorry’ 
“Declan Sullivan was entrusted to our care, and we failed to keep him safe. We at Notre Dame — and ultimately I, as President — are responsible. Words can­not express our sorrow to the Sullivan family and to all involved.” Kate Barrett 
With these simple, 

Faithpoint 
straightforward words Fr. John Jenkins offered a poignant and courageous apology to the Sullivans, and indeed to the world, for his open statement flew through the Internet and around a wide cross-sec­tion of news outlets almost immediately. Perhaps from a cynical point of view, his initiative was somewhat foolhardy, open­ing himself up to blame or even litigation; or, as sometimes happens, others would ascribe ulterior motives even to his most authentic words. 
How many of us have ever had to make such a public and painful apology? Though any truly heartfelt apology demands of us honesty, humility and a genuine desire to make amends, thankfully most — or all — of us will find that we never confront the need to accept responsibility for another’s death. In such a situation, we cannot offer any recompense, any compensation for who and what Declan’s parents and sib­lings and friends have lost. At best we might console ourselves, as perhaps Fr. Jenkins has, in the hope that such an acknowledgement could bring some moment of comfort to those who loved Declan most dearly. 
In Declan’s death, we captured a glimpse of what we should all know, but mostly for­get: how infinitely precious is each human life. We’ve probably all been in conversa­tions over the last two weeks in which we or others have commented on our new attentiveness to one another, on the bless­ings of simply living in this community, on our appreciation for friendships and family members. We can’t live every moment of every day in the kind of intensely height­ened awareness we’ve experienced for the last 14 days. But we can certainly spend the time to recall daily, and be grateful for, the gift of our lives and the people with whom God has surrounded us. We can certainly spend the time to recall daily, and be grateful for, the fact that God at every moment loves us more than we can imag­ine. Can this two-fold awareness allow us to be brave — even foolish — in the kind­ness with which we treat each other, in our readiness to forgive freely? Can we be brave to the point of foolishness in our willingness to reach out more generously, in the humility required to make a genuine apology when needed? 
For maybe we have something to learn here: that reconciliation might contribute to healing more than will retribution or revenge; that ties forged in the midst of sorrow might bring us more consolation than will the hot despair of blame or vengeance. An apology doesn’t signal an end, but a beginning to what is so com­monly called a “new normal,” and for the Notre Dame community, the beginning of a new relationship with a family and a son of Our Lady who will be a part of our lives in a unique, inseparable way that we never could have predicted as recently as the morning of Oct. 27, 2010. 
As our worship calendar winds to an end over the next two Sundays, the Scriptures we will hear proclaimed turn their atten­tion to the end-times, to what the world might be like when God returns to realign our misguided priorities, to clear away and destroy all that keeps us from him. Yet again we can believe and take hope in the certainty in the midst of grief, of confusion and even in the midst of the trials which will attend the end of the world, that for those who put their trust in God, “not a hair on your head will be destroyed.” Even in events we cannot possibly comprehend, in decisions and moments we would trans­form again and again if only given the opportunity, we must seek to find the truth and the love of God through his promise of eternal life; through our belief that God knows and shares in human sorrow; through our trust that even in death God remains with each one of us, loving us both intimately and infinitely. 

Even when we know without a doubt that we must apologize, we can always think of reasons not to say we’re sorry, most of them based on fear: of rejection, of renewed anger, even fear of a lawsuit or other recrimination. If we have the courage to offer a heartfelt apology, how­ever, we may have taken the first step, however tiny, toward healing a rupture, toward including rather than excluding God in the movements of our lives and relationships, toward letting the immeas­urable mercy of God transform our lives as individuals and as a community. 
This week’s Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program. She can be reached at Katharine.S.Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Fixing the necessities 
I love Notre Dame with every fiber of my being. The education is top notch, football games are a blast, the religious aspect is wonderful, the campus is beautiful and the general Notre Dame community is very welcoming and open. However, I do have a problem with one aspect of Notre Dame: allocation of funds. 
It seems like every other day there is a new building or dorm being built or extravagant upgrades around cam­pus. All I want is for Notre Dame to spend some cabbage on things that actually need fixing. Off the top of my head, I can name a few. 
First of all, could we please, please, PLEASE fix the water that comes down South Quad to Fisher and Pangborn? I just want to be able to turn on my sink and not have to use water that tastes and smells like eggs. Every time I brush my teeth and rinse my mouth out I feel like my teeth are going to fall out. Instead of buying random black poles to put around campus for seemingly no reason, could we just fix the water? It is the most basic of necessities and it drives me nuts that it is still so terrible. The worst part is, even if you have a Brita water filter, the sinks are so shallow that the filter does not fit under the faucet! 
Another problem that I know is plaguing everyone on campus is the awful printers in the DeBartolo hallways. I can’t even count how many times I have been late to class because the printers break right as I am trying to print my documents. When I do finally give up and leave the printers someone always yells, “They’re printing now! They’re fixed,” and then the printers only print one document and freeze again. My heart can’t take the ups and downs of the hallway printers! On the other hand, it does tend to spice up an otherwise boring day. 
Speaking of DeBartolo, it seems like every stall in the bathrooms has locks that do not go all the way into the doors so the doors just fly open while I’m trying to do my business. If I am unfortunate enough to not have a book-bag to hold the door closed, I have to awkwardly hold a leg or hand up to keep the door closed. I’ve heard com­plaints from the women-folk as well. Why, oh why, can’t we have bathroom stalls that lock? 
UWIRE 
Don’t know? Don’t care? Don’t vote. 
Election season is over, but a circus of any kind always leaves some confetti in its wake. Regardless of the fact that there are no more votes to cast, com­ments about big oil, marijuana and Meg Whitman’s infamous housemaid are still speeding through cam­pus. 
Many people find this talk  Maya Itah  
annoying. We’ve made the deci­ 
sions, after all. Can’t we walk down Trousdale Parkway in  Daily Trojan  
peace?  

But if those who have already voted are exasperat­ed, consider the feelings of the people who didn’t vote. Many students are as apathetic as ever, but a lot of non-voters are likely experiencing some guilt. 
On top of the professors who urge us to vote, there’s always that one friend who won’t shut up about politics. And, well, there was that one time the president practically begged us to vote right in front of Doheny Library. That was kind of a big deal. 
Non-voters of USC, have no fear: This column isn’t going to give you any more grief. 
In an ideal world, all members of a democracy would be public policy experts, swatting aside propa­ganda and casting educated votes. Unfortunately, that’s not the world we live in. The midterms we’re familiar with come with blue books. We have jobs and extracurriculars; many of us probably can’t remember the last time we cooked a decent meal (or did laundry, for that matter). 
Now, none of this presents a challenge to the politi­cally inclined. If you love elections, following the can­didates is fun. It’s just like any interest. Cinema stu­dents have homework like everyone else, but they still make it to premieres, right? 
The thing is, if politics isn’t your thing, it’s home­work — plain and simple. People don’t like to do homework. For some of us, the following happens: either we don’t do it or we end up turning out a less­than-exhaustive effort. 
Voting works the same way. A lot of people who weren’t that interested in the first place get told to vote right and left so they eventually give in, only to find that no amount of pamphlets will compel them to care about mortgage laws. Some people even mark in random bubbles — “Hey, at least I voted, right?” 
Not exactly. Voting is a privilege, and it comes with additional obligations. If you commit yourself to vot­ing, you commit yourself to looking beyond commer­cials and doing your own research. You commit your­self to gaining at least a basic command of the issues. 
If you happen to be among those people who don’t care — and can’t force themselves to care — don’t vote. Just don’t. Don’t feel guilty, don’t make excuses and don’t succumb to pressure, well-meaning as it might be. Perhaps you’re not being the most respon­sible citizen out there, but no one is perfect. Democracy means having the right to not vote, too. 
Before someone starts throwing metaphorical tomatoes at me, I would like to emphasize that I’m not discouraging people from voting. It’s an incredi­ble opportunity to be part of something bigger than yourself. However, it’s also one that must not be taken lightly. If you’re going to commit, go for it. Your state — and your country — need you. 
But if you’re going to choose whichever name sounds cooler? By all means, carry on studying for your own midterms. There’s something honest and responsible about admitting that you haven’t done enough research to understand the issues. A misin­formed vote is worse than no vote at all. 
Just remember that you’re forfeiting the best right in the United States: the right to complain. 
This column first appeared in the Nov. 4 edition of the Daily Trojan, the publication serving the University of Southern California. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Thursday, November 11, 2010 

By MARIELLE HAMPE 
Scene Writer 
For an evening of song, readings and open -mike performances, check out “Lectio Live Worlds Collide: An Artistic Celebration of Culture and History ” at Notre Dame Thursday. “Lectio Live” presents dif­ferently themed monthly cabarets for students and faculty featuring perform­ances by first -year stu ­dents. 
On campus 
Who: Lectio Live presentedby First Year StudiesWhat: Worlds Collide: An Artistic Celebration of Culture and History at NotreDame Where: Reckers When: Thursday 8 to 10 p.m.How much: Free 
This month’s “Lectio Live” was organized by Ricky Ramon, an academic advi­sor for first-year students. 
The theme of “Worlds Collide ” was inspired by Ramon ’s experience as a first-year student in 1995. Reflecting on his experi ­ence as a first-year student, Ramon recalled that “there really were not any venues for students of color to express their artistic tal­ents.” 
“There was definitely no venue just for first -year students,” he said. “I dedi­cated this Lectio Live to students who are underrep­resented here at Notre Dame. I wanted to give them a space to perform and tell the rest of our Notre Dame community why they are special and why their history and culture is important to everyone here.” 
“Lectio Live” is a coffee­house setting for first-year students. Students can interact with faculty, par­ticipate by performing or relax and watch the musi­cal performances and read­ings. All “Lectio Live ” events are informal and are the first -year version of Acoustic Cafe. 
“Worlds Collide” aims to celebrate many of the dif­ferent cultures found in the Notre Dame community. Any audience member who comes should expect “an evening of entertainment from faculty, student organ­izations and first-year stu­dents that primarily reflect 
our underrepresented minorities,” Ramon said. 
In addition to first-year performers, this month fea­tures the talents of Voices of Faith, the Filipino American Student Organization, Mariachi ND and Coro Primavera. Ramon asked these groups to par­ticipate because “they rep­resent the student popula­tion in such a great way.” 

Voices of Faith is a choir group that has about 40 choristers of different faith backgrounds. The Filipino American Student Organization was founded in 1986 and participates in a variety of campus events to promote an awareness and appreciation of Filipino culture. 
For a bit of flavor from Mexico, Mariachi ND will provide exciting and rhyth­mic instrumental music. Mariachi ND provides fla­vorful Mexican music fea­turing violins, guitars, trumpets and vocalists. The music frequently shifts between syncopation and 
on -beat rhythm, and the various instrumental parts starkly contrast with each 
other. The result is a dynamic sound representa­tive of the culture and heart of Mexico. 
Coro Primavera is a musi­cal group that includes stu­dents from Notre Dame, Saint Mary ’s College and Holy Cross College. Coro Primavera typically sings at various Sunday night dorm Masses in Spanish. 
Fourteen first -year stu ­dents volunteered to per­form a variety of unique events ranging from danc­ing and singing to readings of poetry and short stories. 
The monthly performanc­es of “Lectio Live” intimate­ly connect students to each other and to other faculty members. This month’s pro­gram of “Worlds Collide ” celebrates the history and diverse culture of Notre Dame from 8 to 10 p.m Thursday night at Reckers. The event is free and open to the public. 
Contact Marielle Hampe at mhampe@nd.edu 

The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, November 11, 2010 page 11 
HIGH School DPAC 9 p.m. $3 with student ID 

Screenwriter and Notre Dame alum­nae Stephen Susco (’95) will be present at DPAC’s 9 p.m. screening of her film “HIGH School.” This stoner comedy follows the attempts of an all-A student to get the entire student body to test positive for drug use in order to cover up his own first foray into illegal sub­stances. Tickets are $3 for students. 
“A Night of One Acts” LaFortune Ballroom 
8:30 and 10 p.m. Free 

If you have a short attention span and cannot sit through a full-length play, why not just try a fraction of a play? As part of Notre Dame’s Fortnight Productions, “A Night of One Acts” presents a collection of three one-act plays, each with its own student direc­tor, cast and plot. Free tickets are avail­able in the Ballroom before the show. 
‘Despicable Me’ Debartolo 101 8 and 10:30 p.m. $3 
After standing for four hours at the final football game, relax by watching the SUB movie, “Despicable Me.” This charming animated comedy’s protago­nist is, oddly, a villain. The film tells the journey of the evil man as he starts to be affected by the love he sees between three orphan girls that he originally was using for his evil master plan. 

ND Concert Bands DPAC 3 p.m. Free 
Wind down the weekend with some culture by attending the Notre Dame Symphonic Winds and Symphonic Band fall concert. The concert bands have toured internationally and domestically, and this concert in partic­ular is part of their preparations for their year-end performance in Cleveland. 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 11, 2010 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Syracuse avenges last season’s exhibition loss 
Associated Press 
There won’t be any congratu­latory phone calls and e-mails from stunned Le Moyne alumni, and most of the TV highlights will feature orange-and-white­clad Syracuse players draining long shots from all around the Carrier Dome. 
Division II Le Moyne shocked Syracuse a year ago in an exhibi­tion game, and the memory never “At this stage, we’ve made pret­ty good progress.” 
Chris Johnson hit six 3s and led Le Moyne with 23 points, and Nate Champion had nine points. 
Kris Joseph had 12 points for Syracuse, and Brandon Triche and Mookie Jones each had nine as Syracuse outrebounded the smaller Dolphins 43-20, 11-0 on 
the offensive 
glass in the 
second half. 
Johnson, Le 

faded as the Orange exacted a measure of revenge on  “These games really got us prepared to execute our offense.”  Moyne’s lead­ing returning scorer, hit the game-winning  
Tuesday night.  3 in the clos- 
Scoop Jardine, James Southerland and Dion Waiters  Kris JosephSyracuse forward  ing seconds that beat the Orange 82-79  
each had 13 points  a  year  ago.  
and  No.  10  There was no  
Syracuse hit 11 of  chance of any­ 

16 from beyond the arc to beat thing like that happening again the Dolphins 91-48. on this night. 
“We’re ready to go,” Jardine Despite a solid, disciplined said. “We got a lot of open shots, performance by the Dolphins, a lot of good looks. Our defense who returned two starters from picked up and we made our 3s.” last season’s squad that went 
It was the second and final 18-10, Syracuse assumed con-tuneup for the Orange, who trol with a barrage of 3-pointers beat Kutztown 96-60 a week in the first half. ago. Syracuse opens the season Joseph, Southerland, and at home against Northern Iowa Jones each hit two from beyond on Friday night. the arc as Syracuse made 6 of 
“These two games couldn’t 10. have been better. You don’t “I’m just trying to be more always win these exhibition consistent hitting my shots,” games,” Syracuse coach Jim said Joseph, who was 4 of 5 Boeheim said with a wry smile. from the floor. “We’re ready. 
These games really got us pre­pared to execute our offense and execute our defensive strat­egy.” 
After Johnson’s 3 from the right corner moved Le Moyne within 27-21 with 6:57 left, Southerland swished a 3 from the left side and Jones hit another from the left corner to key a 10-0 run. 
Southerland’s second 3 made it 40-23 with 1:48 left as Syracuse gained a 41-25 half­time lead. 
The Orange opened the sec­ond half with a 14-0 spurt as they extended their long, impos­ing zone defense. Fab Melo’s block down low sent Triche on a fast-break layup and Jardine set up Joseph for a two-handed slam dunk for a 55-25 lead at 16:36. 
Boeheim started the same five as he did a week ago: Jardine, Rick Jackson, Joseph, Triche, and the 7-foot Melo at center. Ten players logged at least 16 minutes and four played 30 or more as the Orange reserves contributed 48 points. 
“We know they can make plays, but a lot of those shots were contested shots,” Le Moyne coach Steve Evans said. “I thought we hung tough for a while, but the fact that they can come with a second wave and a third wave, we just kind of ran out of gas and I think it showed. 
“We tried to run the clock down and run some set plays, but they’re so long it just makes it difficult,” Evans said. “If they’re playing zone and you’re afraid of getting pounded inside, pick your poison. There’s not really a scouting report when you’re as much of an underdog as we are. You’ve got to hope they miss shots, but when they started making shots and then the penetration started, you start looking up at the score­board. That’s when it gets tough.” 
It was the first and only exhi­bition game for the Dolphins, who host Queens in their regu­lar-season opener on Saturday. 

Le Moyne was picked to finish 13th in the Northeast-10 Conference in the preseason coaches poll. 
Though the Dolphins were humbled, they left the Carrier Dome smiling a little bit. 
“They started to extend it (the zone) out, trying to push us far­ther and farther away,” said Johnson, who converted a four-point play in the waning min­utes. “Luckily, I stayed hot. This is just giving me a lot of confi­dence. If I can do this against a team like Syracuse, I can do this against anyone in our confer­ence.” 
NFL 

Jets receiver may face hostile welcome at Cleveland game 
Associated Press  the Jets pulled off a 23-20 over­time victory Sunday in Detroit,  it bothers me.” Edwards began his  career  fast enough.” And for Browns  fans,  he  room. He just had problems with the fans.”  
Braylon Edwards is going  Edwards was already thinking  with the Browns and spent  couldn’t leave soon enough.  Problems the Browns don’t  
back to Cleveland and knows  about Cleveland.  four-plus tumultuous seasons  “This is  a  blue-collar town  have to deal with anymore.  
Browns fans are excited to see  “And before I take off and  with them before coach Eric  and he’s a big-time wide receiv­ “I’m always sick of drama,”  
him again.  forget,” he wrote  Mangini traded  er,” Browns wideout Joshua  Browns left tackle Joe Thomas  
Not because they like him, of  on  his  Twitter  him to New York  Cribbs said. “It got too small for  said. “I would rather just go out  
course, or even miss him.  account, “all you  early last season  him here in Cleveland and now  and play games. Certainly not  
Mostly because they still can’t  C l e v e l a n d  — a  few  days  he’s where he wants to be.”  having that has been nice.”  
stand him. “I think the boos will be seri­ous,” the New York Jets wide  browns fans, 17 is coming back and you better  “I think the boos will be serious ... but so  after Edwards was accused of punching a  A first-round pick out of Michigan in 2005, Edwards felt Ohio State fans had it in for  After busting out in his third season by setting career highs with 80 catches, 1,289 yards  
receiver said Wednesday. “I don’t think they’ll be cheering.  bring ya damn popcorn.”  what? That’s life.”  friend of James outside a  him as soon as he joined the Browns. The first question he  and 16 touchdowns and making the Pro Bowl, Edwards had a  
I think everybody will be against me, but so what? That’s  Yep, Cleveland Browns Stadium  Braylon Edwards  Cleveland night­club.  was asked after being drafted was about being a Wolverine.  lot expected of him. Instead, his production  
life.”  will  surely  be  Jets wide reciever  “The  biggest  It  was  all  downhill  from  slipped  — as did passes out of  
Especially  for  a  guy  who  rockin’  as  soon  thing for me is I  there.  his hands. That, maybe more  
might be the most hated former  as  Edwards  couldn’t  show  But, Edwards brought a lot of  than anything else, drew the ire  
Cleveland athlete not named  steps  on  the  how  excited  I  it upon himself with off-field  of fans.  
LeBron James.  field.  was  at  the  issues, troubles with the law  “I got a bad rap based off one  
“At the end of the day, we’re  “I’m prepared for this,” he  time,” Edwards said. “I just  and questions about his com- year,” Edwards said, adding  
here  to  play  the  Browns,”  said. “I think I’ve been very  thought that it would be unpro­ mitment to the game.  that the revolving door that  
Edwards said. “My personal  professional when dealing with  fessional to do a dance in his  “He never had any disputes  was the Browns’ quarterback  
war with Cleveland, that’s sec- situations in my career. I don’t  office  as  he’s telling  me. ...  with his teammates,” Cribbs  situation didn’t help. “I don’t  
ondary.”  think it will bother me at all. It  When he told me that, it was  said. “He was a good team guy.  think it was fair and it stuck  
But, even a few hours after  may bother you guys more than  just, I couldn’t get out of Berea  He  got along  in  the  locker  with me.”  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Pirate Quotations Jack Sparrow: You seem somewhat Jack Sparrow: Mr. Gibbs. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't Jack Sparrow: “Do us a favor... I familiar. Have I threatened you Gibbs: Captain.FOR SALE PERSONAL go it alone. Notre Dame has many know it's difficult for you... but before? Jack Sparrow: We have a need to ———————————————— resources in place to assist you. please, stay here, and try not to do travel upriver. 
anything... stupid.” Will Turner: I make a point of avoid-Gibbs: By "need," do you mean a If you or someone you care about ing familiarity with pirates. trifling need? Fleeting? As in, say, a has been sexually assaulted, we If you or someone you love needs Will Turner: Where's Elizabeth? fancy? 
House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq ft can help. confidential support or assistance, Jack Sparrow: She's safe, just like I Jack Sparrow: No, a resolute and home. 4BR 3.5BA. Furniture ?, fully please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 promised. She's all set to marry Tia Dalma: Would you do it? Hm? unyielding need. redone. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. Norrington, just like she promised. What would you... Hm? What would 
For more information, visit Notre And you get to die for her, just like any of you be willing to do, hm? Dame's website: you promised. So we're all men of Would you sail to the ends of the Jack Sparrow: I thought you were 
For more information, visit ND's our word really... except for, of Earth and beyond to fetch back supposed to keep to the code. $365K 574-232-2211 on web at website at: http://pregnancysup-course, Elizabeth, who is in fact, a witty Jack and him precious Pearl? Gibbs: We figured they were more 610.sbrp.us http://csap.nd.edu. port@nd.edu. woman. actual *guidelines* ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— 
Thursday, November 11, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
PGA 

Woods posts successful round at Australian Masters 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Tiger Woods hit the ball as well as he has all year, except on the greens. 
In his final title defense of a forgettable year, Woods opened the Australian Masters with a 2-under 69 and was four shots behind the early leaders Thursday at Victoria Golf Club. 
Woods missed only two greens in regulation, both times saving par from a bunker. But he took 19 putts on his outward nine, and had to hole a 7-foot par putt on the final hole to avoid his second three-putt bogey. 
Alistair Presnell and Adam Bland each at a 6-under 65, one shot clear of a group that included PGA Tour winner Andre Stolz. Geoff Ogilvy, who was a member at Victoria as a teenager, opened with a 72. 
“That was probably the high­est score I could have shot,” Woods said. “I gave myself a lot of looks early. I just didn’t kept leaving them short. The only bogey I had was a three-putt.” 
Woods hit driver only on the par 5s, opting to play for posi­tion with a 2-iron and occa­sional 3-wood as he did a year ago at Kingston Heath when he won for the first time Down Under. Woods captured his 82nd title worldwide last year, and finished off another strong season with seven wins. 
Twelve days later, he was in a car accident outside his Florida home that led to reve­lations of infidelity. 
Woods has said he’s not look­ing at his trip to Melbourne as the completion of a year that cost him his marriage and his golf game, rather it was a tournament he was trying to win. 

Even after a perplexing round on the greens, he felt he was on track. 
“I could have easily been 4, 5, 6 under,” Woods said. “I don’t know what the guys are going to do this afternoon, but I’m right there.” 
He certainly was in play. 

Woods missed only two fair­ways — with a driver on the par-5 18th that forced him to pitch out sideways from the trees, and a 3-wood that he pulled into the bunker on the eighth, which has been con­verted to a par 4 for the Australian Masters. 
Perhaps his most impressive swing came on the par-5 17th, when he hit a low cut with a driver some 25 yards beyond Robert Allenby, leaving Woods a 2-iron to about 30 feet above the hole. He narrowly missed that eagle attempt. 


TITLE IX 

Case resurfaces with complaints 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — The National Women’s Law Center filed com­plaints against 12 school dis­tricts Wednesday alleging they failed to offer equal opportuni­ties for female athletes. 
NWLC officials say they believe statistics from 2006 indi­cate the districts violated Title IX, the federal law prohibiting gender discrimination in feder­ally funded education programs. The U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights will investigate the com­plaints. 
The school districts are Chicago; Clark County, Nev.; Columbus, Ohio; Deer Valley, Ariz.; Henry County, Ga.; Houston; Irvine, Calif.; New York City; Oldham County, Ky.; Sioux Falls, S.D.; Wake County, N.C.; and Worcester, Mass. 
Determining whether Title IX violations exist is more compli­cated than looking at raw num­bers because the statute can be satisfied in one of three ways: if the percentage of athletes who are girls is about the same as the student body; if the school has continually expanded oppor­tunities for girls; or if the school meets its female students’ inter­est in participating in sports. 
Several of the school districts noted that participation num­bers didn’t necessarily mean that girls lacked the opportunity to play a sport if they chose. 
“There are equal opportuni­ties for girls to participate in our school district and it is some­thing that is really important to us,” said Irvine’s Cassie Parham, assistant superintendent and a former athlete. “The opportunity to be an athlete certainly exists.” 
In the 12 districts, the per­centage of girls playing sports was lower than that of the stu­dent body. The gaps ranged from 8 percentage points in New York to 33 in Chicago. 
The NWLC found the gap increased in most of the districts from 2004 to ‘06, indicating that opportunities had not been expanding. It also said the dis­tricts didn’t field teams in all girls sports sanctioned by their state, suggesting that interest was not being met. 
“On the face of it, it looks pret­ty difficult to say, ‘Our students are unique. They’re not really interested in playing the sports that other students are playing all around the state,’” NWLC Co-President Marcia Greenberger said on a conference call. 
The general counsel for the Oldham County Board of Education, Anne Courtney Coorssen, emphasized the num­bers cited are four years old. She said the participation gaps in the district have shrunk since 2006. 
“Unfortunately, representa­tives from the NWLC chose not to contact the district to obtain current data and discuss Title IX compliance prior to filing their complaint,” she said. 
Wake County spokesman Michael Evans said the district offered all sports sanctioned by North Carolina’s sports govern­ing body. 
“We leave it up to the schools to determine whether they’re going to field a team or not, based on student interest,” he said. 
The NWLC selected one school in each of the 12 Office for Civil Rights regions based on the 2006 data, the most recent available. 
“The numbers are so stark and the gaps are so big, they show they have a lot of explain­ing to do,” NWLC senior counsel Neena Chaudhry said. 
The New York City Department of Education noted in a statement that the Public Schools Athletic League has added double dutch, lacrosse and golf in recent years. 
Houston’s Marmion Dambrino, the district’s first female athletic director, said the schools would work closely with the Office for Civil Rights to ensure they were in compliance. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 11, 2010 
NFL 

Favre rests after big overtime win 

Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — And on Wednesday, Brett Favre rest­ed. Again. And the Chicago Bears might want to take note. 
Favre’s career-high 446 yards passing last Sunday led Minnesota to a season-sal­vaging overtime victory over the Cardinals, and some Vikings said afterward they saw a dif­ference in their 41-year-old quarterback. 
“This week I’ve seen in Brett what I haven’t seen since last year, when it comes to energy that comes across from him,” tight end Visanthe Shiancoe said then. “It definitely showed.” 
Asked Wednesday whether he felt more energy in the run-up to the Arizona game, well, Favre shrugged the question off like he was sidestepping a pass rush. 
“Say we lost in OT, I doubt he says that,” Favre said, referring to Shiancoe’s assessment. 
But then, as if he had finished checking his receivers and just fired the ball to the open man, Favre offered his acknowledg­ment that taking the previous Wednesday’s practice off might have provided him some extra freshness. 
“That was the hope. I felt like going in, the few days that I did practice, my arm felt a little more alive. I had a little more pep in my step,” Favre said, before beginning to back off a bit. “I don’t know. I kind of felt that same I did the previous week.” 
However he feels minute to minute, Favre rested again Wednesday. He said he was fatigued during that comeback against the Cardinals. And dis­cussing the left foot that still has two small fractures in it, Favre said he’s still surprised it’s not giving him more trouble. 
“It’s OK. Of course, after a game it always feels worse. It’s still swollen, but at least I’m able to function enough on it that Monday and Tuesday and maybe Wednesday I try to stay off of it as much as possible,” Favre said. “Get it back to where it feels tolerable. I’m surprised with a broken foot that it doesn’t feel as bad as it probably should.” 
As Favre goes, so go the Vikings — and maybe the grim days have passed. 
With all the hubbub over coach Brad Childress’s job secu­rity and standing in the locker room after his decision to dump Randy Moss, Favre has recently flown under the radar — a rari­ty for the guy who has made constant headlines again this fall for his age, his injuries and the alleged inappropriate mes­sages sent to a former New York Jets employee two years ago. 
Over the last week or so, Favre has seemed as loose as he’s been during this so-far tense and trying season. While backup quarterback Tarvaris Jackson took questions in the locker room last Wednesday about his relief appearance in the New England game, Favre sneaked into the pack and posed as a reporter to ask, “How’d your hamstring feel on that long scramble?” 
Favre walked away with a kid’s grin on his face. 
The grin returned last Sunday after the Vikings (3-5) pulled out a much-needed victory headed into Sunday’s game against the Bears (5-3). 
“I’m optimistic that we can build off of it. Don’t expect 400 yards every week, but a lot of guys had their hand in our suc­cess. That’s a good thing,” Favre said. 
Before practice, he talked about his comfort level with the hurry-up offense that helped spur the Vikings to victory. The menu of plays is reduced in those situations, and the quar­terback has more control over what to run. 
Just the way Favre likes it. 
“We always think that the plays we call would be better, just like people sitting at home,” Favre said. 
The less-is-more approach can certainly be helpful in a league that can sometimes seem over-coached. 
“If you’re running one route and one route and route over and over and over again, you would think that it would be hard to screw it up,” Favre said, adding: “I think that’s why over the years I’ve been fairly successful in that type of offense. ... There’s just this comfort level of I don’t have to worry where guys are lining up.” 
Childress, whose occasional clashes with Favre over the offense have become national news and weekly water-cooler fodder, was pleased by the result and expressed confidence in the 20-year veteran’s famil­iarity with the no-huddle approach. 



Thursday, November 11, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

MossspeaksaftersecondTitanspractice 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Randy Moss says he’s sorry things did-n’t work out in Minnesota and that he isn’t upset with the Vikings or coach Brad Childress for waiving him. 
The well-traveled receiver insists he isn’t in town — his third NFL city this season — to start trouble. 
Moss spoke Wednesday for the first time since Minnesota waived him Nov. 1. Wednesday was also Moss’ second practice with the Titans, the only NFL team to put in a claim for the player with 153 career touch­down catches. 
“I made Minnesota my home. I loved being there, and it just didn’t work out,” Moss said. “Just I had my own beliefs in what I believe, and coach had his. Am I bitter or mad that he let me go or the organiza­tion? No. You never know 


what the future “I’m not coming here Tennessee. The 
holds. Right to start no trouble. I’m 13-year veter-now I’m a an started the 
just coming here to
Te nnessee season with 
work every day and
Titan. I’m here New England to do whatever hopefully win.” before the coach (Jeff) Patriots traded Fisher wants him to 
Randy Moss
me to do.” Minnesota on 
Titans wide receiver 
Moss began Oct. 6 only to 
Belichick and criticizing Vikings coaching. 
Childress told his players the next day Moss was being waived, and the team actually put him on waivers a day later on Nov. 2. Tennessee claimed him 24 hours later. 
Moss began his statement Wednesday telling his family that everything was going well with him — though his family was not in attendance. 
“I’ve been through a lot in the last couple of weeks,” Moss said. “Like I said, I’ve got these broad shoulders. I can carry a lot of weight. I feel good about the acquisition of coach Fisher getting me here. The process of getting here has been kind of crazy.” 
That it has, and it’s why Moss can become the first player in NFL history to catch a touch­down pass with three different teams in a sin­gle season with his first TD reception for 
his media ses­sion with a statement, but did take four questions — the entire exchange lasted 3 min­utes, 4 seconds. Two questions concerned what effort the Titans can expect from him play to play. Moss asked the reporter what he expected from him, and the reporter said he didn’t know what to expect. 
“I don’t know what to expect neither,” Moss said. 
It was a change for Moss, who blew off the media in Minnesota several times and drew a $25,000 fine from the NFL. He last spoke publicly Oct. 31 after his last game with the Vikings, a 28-18 loss to New England. He refused to take questions, instead going on a bizarre rant gushing about the Patriots and coach Bill be waived less 
than a month 
later. 

“I said it before, I didn’t want to go to Minnesota and mess anything up,” Moss said. “I guess everybody blamed me for it. I’m going to say it again. I’m not coming here to start no trouble. I’m just coming here to work every day and hopefully win.” 
Moss, who arrived in town Sunday, is in a much different situation in Tennessee. The Titans (5-3) are tied atop the AFC South, and Fisher is giving Moss a fresh start in Tennessee. That pass play in New England where Moss has been accused of not running while drawing a pass interfer­ence call? Fisher said receivers sometimes lose the flight of the ball. 
“He’s automatically guilty because it’s a lack of effort,” Fisher said of Moss. “He’s going to work out. He’s working hard out there. I expect him to play hard in the ballgame.” 
Fisher said Moss will play Sunday against Miami (4-4) and is listed as a starter. Fisher noted Moss participated in most of the offense at practice Wednesday. 
One reason Moss might be enjoying himself is the Titans also like to have a little bit of fun while they work. 
They had rookie safety Robert Johnson put on Moss’ No. 84 jersey and run onto the practice field with TV cameras and photographers shooting away, thinking it was the star receiver. Moss jogged out a few minutes later, pulling his hel­met on with his usual red gloves instead of the blue Johnson wore. 
“I think some of the veteran DBs put him up to it,” Fisher said. “It was a good imitation. He just had the wrong colored gloves.” 
Moss has immediately impressed his latest team­mates. Kenny Britt, who will miss Sunday’s game at Miami, wants to learn how Moss catch­es go routes with his hands while the other receivers strug­gle to pull them into their bod­ies. 
“He made it so easy,” Britt said. 
Moss caught balls mostly from backup Kerry Collins, a teammate for a year when both were in Oakland. Young watched practice with his sprained left ankle, but Fisher said they hope Young is back on the field Thursday. 
The Titans only hope Moss debuts just as he has in each of his previous first games with a new team. He has scored at least one touchdown and is averaging 122 yards. 
Collins said the Titans are seeing the great attitude and work ethic Moss brings along with his desire to win. That ratchets up the expectations across the board. 
“We all should raise the bar just a little higher with him here,” Collins said. “He’s a dynamic player. He can be a game changer and be the kind of guy that can turn the game on one play.” 
MLB 
Rolen wins third career GoldGlove 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The new ver­sion of the Big Red Machine plays some pretty slick defense, too. 
Cincinnati third baseman Scott Rolen won his eighth Gold Glove on Wednesday, one of three Reds players to be honored following the team’s first playoff appear­ance in 15 years. Second base­man Brandon Phillips and pitch­er Bronson Arroyo also were among the National League recipients announced by Rawlings. 
It’s the first time Cincinnati has had more than one winner in a season since the days of the Big Red Machine, when catcher Johnny Bench, second baseman Joe Morgan, shortstop Dave Concepcion and center fielder Cesar Geronimo won four straight years from 1974-77. 
“I think our defense won a lot of games this year,” Rolen said. 
St. Louis catcher Yadier Molina and Philadelphia outfielder Shane Victorino each garnered their third Gold Glove in a row. Colorado shortstop Troy Tulowitzki and outfielder Carlos Gonzalez joined Arroyo as first-time winners. 
“It was definitely a shock,” Arroyo said. “Honestly, it never even crossed my mind once throughout my entire career.” 
Cardinals first baseman Albert Pujols won for the second time (2006), and speedy Houston cen­ter fielder Michael Bourn was a repeat winner. 
“Michael’s second Gold Glove comes as no surprise to anyone who has watched him play,” Astros general manager Ed Wade said. “You see the ball leave the bat, and you say, ‘No way that one gets caught,’ and then Michael runs it down. Some guys make plays look tougher than they are. Michael makes the impossible catch look rou­tine. It’s nice to see his hard work get recognized.” 
Phillips also won in 2008 before Orlando Hudson took the NL award at second base last year. 
Rolen was selected for the first time since 2006. His eighth Gold Gloves rank third at his position behind Hall of Famers Brooks Robinson (16) and Mike Schmidt (10). 
On a conference call with all three Reds winners, the 35-year­old Rolen joked that he and gen­eral manager Walt Jocketty had already discussed a six-to-eight­year contract extension for “unlimited dollars” so he could chase Schmidt and Robinson. 
“I think Mike Schmidt was the best third baseman to ever play the game,” Rolen said. “To be with those guys obviously is an amazing compliment.” 
Cincinnati tied for the major league lead with a club-record .988 fielding percentage, a big reason the resurgent Reds won the NL Central before losing to Philadelphia in a first-round playoff sweep. They committed only 72 errors, 17 fewer than the previous team record set last year. 
“Having a great defensive infield is such a bonus,” Arroyo said. “To have the year that we had defensively definitely con­tributed to us making the play­offs.” 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 11, 2010 
Hurley 
continued from page 20 
Hurley finished in 15th place out of 136 participants, while Courtney finished in 61st place. Ewa Nelip finished in 29th place. 
Courtney also earned addi­tional honors during the tour­nament. The FIE named Courtney the winner of the World Cup Trophy, honoring the world’s best junior epeeist for the 2009-10 season. This award was a culmination of a year’s worth of dominance for Hurley. Bednarski believes his sophomore epeeist showed that she is one of the most talented young fencers in the world. 
“By winning the World Cup Series, she proved that she is the best fencer in her category in her age group in the world without any doubt,” he said. 
Bednarski stressed that the experience gained by the team members at the World Championships will be pivotal for the competitors for this sea­son. 
“It is a tremendous experi­ence because you are able to see all the tricks used by the top fencers and coaches from all around the globe,” he said. “To fence on the highest level you have to prepare yourself against specific styles, and you have to take time to learn these styles. The only way to learn this is by doing.” 
He said this experience would not only help the individ­uals who went to the event, but would help the team improve as a whole. 
“By exchanging this informa­tion among fencers who did not go to the competition and expe­rience the nuances of fencing at a top level, these strategies can be passed here during our practices,” Bednarski said. 
Bednarski explained that along with the other fencers on the team who did not qualify for the event, the coaching staff will be eager to learn from the girls who represented the Irish in Paris. 
“It will be important for coaches to ask the girls what other coaches and fencers are doing,” he said. “I always ask what happened in their event, and look for the new strategies in fencing that we can follow.” 
Many other Irish fencers also competed in the tournament. Beatriz Almeida, a current sophomore, represented Brazil, and Mariel Zagunis, former Irish fencer and two time gold medalist, represented the United States in the saber team competition. Notre Dame grad­uate Orzen Debic also repre­sented Croatia at the tourna­ment in the foil team event. 
The multitude of Irish fencers displayed the strength of the Dame. “We feel this pressure from Notre Dame program on a “This program was estab-alumni and older fencers. It national and global level. lished a long time ago and always gives us motivation to Bednarski believes that his many great coaches trained achieve and get better.” team’s current success fits here, built tradition and built a right in line with the strong standard of excellence that you Contact Michael Todisco at fencing tradition built at Notre want to live up to,” he said. mtodisco@nd.edu 


Senior 
continued from page 20 
kill of her career on Oct. 15 against DePaul, becoming only the ninth player in Notre Dame history to record 1000 kills and 400 blocks. 
While she was recruited by many programs, Sciacca always held a special place for Notre Dame, catalyzed by a childhood trip to a Notre Dame-Air Force football game. She said she remembers her first trip to campus for her recruiting visit fondly. 
“My dad and I were driving down Notre Dame Ave. with the dome in front of us and I just got the feeling that this was a really special place,” Sciacca said. “After a few hours of touring campus, it didn’t take long for me to know that I wanted to go to Notre Dame. I still visited other schools, but I knew that Notre Dame was where I wanted to be.” 
Once she enrolled at Notre Dame, she immediately made an impact on the volleyball court. Sciacca’s torrid hitting pace earned her Big East Freshman of the Week honor three times, as well as the AVCA Northeast Region Freshman of the Year award, as she became the second Irish player to earn the honor. 
During her freshman year, Sciacca found herself under the mentorship of former Notre Dame volleyball standout and assistant coach Lauren Brewster. She attributes much of her success in volleyball to the lessons, both on and off the court, she learned from Brewster. 
“[Lauren] really had an impact on me when I first arrived on campus,” Sciacca said. “She was one of the best players in Notre Dame history, and she played my position, so she really taught me a lot and I just really wanted to work hard to make her happy and do all the things she wanted me to do. She was always there for me, especially whether I was frustrated with volleyball or overwhelmed with school.” 
Following her strong fresh­man campaign, Sciacca’s game continued to improve. Irish coach Debbie Brown stressed the impressive developments that she has made in her time at Notre Dame. 
“She has been an incredibly steady and strong offensive player who has improved with every year she has played,” Brown said. “Kellie has contin­ued to become a smarter and more complete player and has made amazing strides from her freshman to senior year.” 
In 2009, behind Sciacca’s outstanding hitting and block­ing up front, the Irish went undefeated (14-0) in the Big East, and defeated Stanford, the No. 5 team in the country. By the end of the season in which Notre Dame qualified for the NCAA tournament, Sciacca had worked her way into the record books with the second highest career hitting percent­age in the program’s history. 
For her senior year the dynamics of the Notre Dame program changed dramatically. The Irish lost several seniors from the veteran team of 2009, and Sciacca found herself a leader on a very young team. 
“I hope to have a positive impact on the younger players, and I try to be somebody that they can come to if they have problems on or off the court,” Sciacca said. “I want to affect them in a positive way so they can lead Notre Dame volleyball to success in the future. Even though my career is close to being over, I can only hope that my impact on the younger girls is something that can still be around even when I’m not.” 
Although her career is wind­ing down, Sciacca still has big aspirations for the rest of her time with the Irish, who cur­rently sit at 15-11. 
“For the end of the season we still have some big goals,” Sciacca explained. “We want to win the Big East tournament, and we are absolutely confi­dent that we can accomplish this. If we play to our potential we can beat anybody. After that, we have our eyes on a good run in the NCAA tourna­ment.” 

Although Sciacca’s prowess on the volleyball court may at times look effortless, she stresses that life as a Notre Dame student-athlete is by no means easy. 
“There is consistently a ton of pressure to perform at the highest possible level and to play well consistently,” she said. “In addition to the stress that is brought about from sports, there is also the pres­sure and stress that school brings.” 
However difficult the four years may have been, Sciacca stressed that the Notre Dame community has supported her in all her endeavors, and she is thankful for the time she spent here. 
“Being a part of the Notre Dame community has helped me tremendously,” she said. “It’s really hard to believe how fast time goes by, but I have loved my career thus far at Notre Dame. This is just such a great place, and I think it’s unlike any other school in the country. I’m thankful for the opportunity to play the sport I love here at Notre Dame.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


Thursday, November 11, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
spanned eight coaching tenures Collins was also responsible for game.” Dame will return to the pinnacle and generations of Irish fans. giving longtime friend and In between swiping cards at of college football — and that he 
Collins 
continued from page 20 
he said. “I have a National Championship ring from ’88. I think if that happens, I’ll walk away. I wouldn’t want to tempt fate. I’m so proud of that ring, I can’t tell you.” 
While that championship ring is emblematic of the success of a single season, Saturday’s game represents a lifetime of dreams fulfilled for the kid who used to watch Pirates games on television and listen to the announcer in the background. 
“I thought the coolest thing to be when I was a kid was a public address announcer,” Collins said. “From the first time I ever heard a voice at old Forbes Field at Pittsburgh, where the Pirates played — you couldn’t see where that voice was coming from, you just heard it on the speakers. I thought that was the neatest thing.” 
Collins’ journey to the record books began in 1982 when he was still doing his first stint as the hockey PA announcer. Two days before the start of the regular season, Collins received a call from then-sports information director Roger Valdiserri. Crosiar had decided to call it a career, and Valdiserri needed a replace­ment for the first game of the sea­son against Michigan. 
Collins aced the “audition,” the first coast-to-coast, primetime tel­evision broadcast of a regular season college football game, and kicked off a career that has 
Ridderwall 
continued from page 20 
crowd, No. 3 Michigan jumped out to a quick 2-0 lead over No. 2 Notre Dame. Here, it was the Irish who bounced back, scoring five unanswered goals — includ­ing two from Ridderwall — to win 5-2. 
“We just knew that if we kept working hard we were going to score some goals and that’s exactly what happened,” Ridderwall said. “After that first one, I think the whole team believed that we were going to score some more.” 
Last season, both teams strug­gled in the early going, though 
“One of the nicest things in recent years is people have become more familiar with who I was or my voice,” he said. “I’ll get an email, a couple each year, say­ing that they watch all the home games on NBC and listen to my voice in the background because it makes them feel like they’re back home.” 
Collins said the key to his suc­cess has been the ability to sepa­rate his love as a fan from his responsibilities as an announcer. Collins brings a professional atti­tude to every game, as he pro­vides context to the action on the field without getting in the way. 
“There are some PA announc­ers who think they are part of the entertainment,” he said. “I like to say I’m professionally enthusias­tic. I am not a cheerleader. I have to ride the wave of the fans. If we are losing, that’s when my job is very difficult.” 
But there are tricks to the trade. Collins has developed a few subtle techniques over the years to “breathe life into the crowd,” including emphasizing the down and distance on critical third and fourth down plays for the opposi­tion. Yet his most recognizable contribution is one that Irish fans have associated with the game day experience for years. 
“It was about 15 years ago,” Collins said. “The only thing I can remember was it was a big game. I don’t even remember who it was. The team comes out of the tunnel, and I blurted out at the top of my voice, ‘Here come the Irish.’” 
Michigan rebounded late in the year to win the CCHA tourna­ment despite finishing seventh in the regular season standings. Now, the Irish travel to Ann Arbor this weekend as both teams are trying to re-establish themselves as fixtures at the top of the college hockey world. Ridderwall said part of what makes the rivalry so special is playing in the hostile atmosphere that Yost Arena provides. 
“It’s not hard to get ready for these kind of games,” Ridderwall said. “You know what you’re get­ting yourself into, but you also know how great it can be if you’re successful. I think it’s very motivating going into Yost and playing Michigan.” 
Jackson said he thought the Indiana State Police Sergeant Tim McCarthy a permanent slot open­ing the fourth quarter with a safety quip, which had previously been announced whenever time allowed. 

“He’s a professional’s pro,” McCarthy said. “He’d be very hard to replace. The man’s got the brains, he’s got the know­how, and he’s got a great voice for stadium announcing. I don’t think people realize how much he has to prepare himself for each South Dining Hall, Collins puts in the hours each week before a home game mastering pronuncia­tions and going through depth charts. Reflecting on his career, Collins said his favorite player pronunciation was Jerome Bettis, and the most exciting player he ever watched was Raghib “Rocket” Ismail. 
While the success Bettis and Ismail brought with them seems like a distant memory to Irish fans, Collins is confident Notre will be in the Stadium to announce it. 
“I am positive we’ll be back for Notre Dame football,” he said. “I was in the news business, so I don’t make up stories, but Coach Kelly is on the right track. He knows where we are, where we have to go and the route we have to take. I truly believe that. Those days are coming back.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


environment only helps his team. 
“It’s always a challenge playing at Yost because it is an intimidat­ing place, but I’ve always felt our teams relish playing there,” he said. “It’s an exciting place to play.” 
As for preparation, Ridderwall said looking back on past success against the Wolverines, such as his overtime goal in the Frozen Four, gives him a boost of confi­dence, but that other subtle reminders never hurt. 
“In the weight room, our strength coach Tony Rolinski isn’t scared to sing the Michigan fight song in your ear while you’re try­ing to clear the bar.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Salvi 
continued from page 20 

the next youngest in the fami­ly after Brian, has seen action on special teams in two Notre Dame games this season. Chris transferred from Butler upon the conclusion of his freshman year and proceeded to walk on for the Irish. 
“Chris was a very talented high school player, but he wasn’t an all-star recruit,” Brian said. “So just for him to transfer and make it on the team as fast as he did, I mean now he’s getting playing time. We’re staring down No. 24 and watching every move he makes to see how he does. When he’s made the few tack­les he’s made in Notre Dame Stadium and his name goes over the PA system, we lose it.” 
The youngest of the Domers, Will is looking to bring the interhall title to Dillon. 
“Watching Will is a lot of fun because he’s really good,” Brian said. “It’s fun made up so many games because we wanted to play football, but we didn’t have enough kids to play a real game.” 
One game the Salvi brothers invented is the Interception Game. 
“Basically we ran routes, and you get points for inter­ceptions, points for touch­downs,” Will said. “We always played tackle, we never played touch football.” 
The Salvis have a history of success riding with them into the Stadium. 
“There’s another family on my dad’s side of the family that has four boys, so every year we play football against each other on Thanksgiving in the Turkey Bowl,” Brian said. “For about seven or eight years, our family has won.” 
All three boys are predict­ing that their family will con­tinue to win, even at Notre Dame Stadium. 
“ND wins a close game by less than a field goal,” Brian said. “Dillon wins 21-7. I’m very confident that Will will 
play extremely 
well.” 
Playing in the 
Stadium will 


to watch him “It’s fun to watch him only be a first-play because time experience 
[Will] play because ... 
when he plays for Will, as 
I know he’s going to 
wide receiver Brian was a and corner, I make plays.” member of the know he’s Brian Salvi Stanford team going to make that won the 
Law student 
plays.” 

Though the brothers will spend the weekend playing on one of college’s football’s most revered stadi­ums, their love for football started in their backyard. The brothers fondly remember the games they made up in their backyard as kids. 
“My oldest brother is nine years older than me, so whenever we would play any game he was kind of the mediator,” Will said. “We 
interhall cham­
pionship  in  
2007.  
“Just  to  be  

there is cool in the first place, even if the sta­dium is empty other than the people in the gold seats,” Will said. “It’s cool to see a big bowl around you while you play, and hopefully there will be a big turnout with a lot of people. The more people, the more fun [the game will be].” 
Contact Megan Golden at 
mgolde1@saintmarys.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15  
16  
17  
18  
19  20  
21  22  23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  
39  40  
41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  
58  
59  

Thursday, November 11, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 

Across 37 Where Citigroup 
1 Was proven and JPMorganChase are
innocent headquartered

16 Mergeralternative 39 Pizza joint in “Dothe Right Thing” 
17 Drive to drink? 40 Potential poster 
18 Stops striving 
boy19 With 12-Down, 
41 Dancing turns down 
technique20 Ready for 44 New Orleans assault setting: Abbr. 21 Agricultural labor 45 Food grp. preservative,briefly
22 Become 47 Banda ___
useless, as a (2004 tsunami 26-Down 
site)27 Ukraine/Moldova 
49 Bombshell border river 

revealed shortly 32 Debtor's option, before Election briefly Day 
33 It often includes 57 Didn't judge a tax group fairly 
35 “Do ___ else!” 58 An employee 

36 River through may accept a Dresden package for one 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


59 Met a body 
Down 
1 Not just brown 2 Like a maverick 3 Rough figs. 4 Quintessentially 5 Cut along the
grain 
6 Football Hall-of-Famer Hirsch 7 Actor Richmond 
and singerJackson 8 Early Roman emperor 9 Mrs. Boris Yeltsin 
10 “La Dolce Vita” actress 
11 Earth-shakingbeginning? 12 See 19-Across 13 Reebok rival 
14 “Is it just ___ …” 
15 Kite relatives 21 Lacking the resources 
23 Order at LongJohn Silver's 
24 “___ your heartsfaint”: Deuteronomy20:3 
25 In a tangle 
26 Inflation target 
27 Tony Randall
title role 
28 Brake fluid brand 
29 Without flaws 
30 Soyons is a form of it 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 

Puzzle by Joe Krozel  
31 Symbol of St.Barnabas,whose saint day comes at hayharvesting time 33 Daring exploit  42 Where brothers and sisters hangout 43 1677 Racine tragedy 46 Issued poundnotes?  50 Woodwind instr. 51 Hawaiian staple 52 Olive kin 53 Japanese PeaceNobelist of 1974 54 Willow variety  
34 PC connection 38 Firm cheese, forshort?  47 Coq ___ 48 10 million rupees 49 Grp. that rollsout the barrels?  55 Text message status 56 Job preceder:Abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

PLEASANDVILLE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 

SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 
THE MATING RITUAL 


JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VALEG  

 
 
 
 
 

©2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
UNFYN  

 
 
 
 
 

LOPPIN  

 
 
 
 
 
 

FREIHE  

 
 
 
 
 
 


IT
Answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SYNOD EXERT PEPSIN DISOWN Yesterday’s 
Answer: What he did when he heard his wife shriek — STEPPED ON IT 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 


BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 
 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, November 11, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Announcerbreaksfootballrecord 
Voice of Notre Dame ready for 171st game 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Catholics vs. Convicts. The Game of the Century. The Bush Push. 
Public address announcer Mike Collins has seen it all during his tenure as the voice of Notre Dame Stadium. And while Saturday’s matchup against Utah doesn’t have quite that hype sur­rounding it, Collins is anticipating its arrival nonetheless. 
The Pittsburgh native will cue the microphone for his 171st consecutive home game announced, breaking the record held by former football PA announcer Frank Crosiar. Although Collins wraps up his 29th season in the PA box, he has no signs of slowing down. 

“Let’s be honest about it — I want to stay until Notre Dame’s in the BCS championship game,” he said. “I have a National MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer 
Mike Collins prepares to announce the Irish home game against Tulsa on Oct. 30. This weekend see COLLINS/page 17 will mark his 171st game in Notre Dame Stadium. 

MEN’S INTERHALL 
Brothers share time in Stadium 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Three Salvi brothers will experience their dreams come true this weekend, as they transport their football talents from the backyard to Notre Dame Stadium. 
The middle of five boys, Brian Salvi is a graduate stu­dent who currently attends Notre Dame Law School and plays quarterback for the Running Rebels, a team in the Notre Dame Graduate, Faculty and Staff Intramural Football League. 
“Brian plays quarterback in his league, and it’s 7-on-7,” Dillon sophomore wide receiv­er Will Salvi said. “It’s great watching because I love 7-on­
7. It’s all passing the whole 
game, and he makes plays.” Irish junior safety Chris Salvi, 
see SALVI/page 17 


HOCKEY 

Notre Dame and Michigan rivalry continues on the ice 
conference in 1992. But it’s only The rivalry entered its modern beginning and trying to outwork game.
By SAM WERNER 

been recently, since coach Jeff era three seasons ago in neither them every shift was huge,” “That was my greatest hockey
Sports Writer 

Jackson has made the Notre South Bend nor Ann Arbor, but in Ridderwall, now a senior on the moment ever,” Ridderwall said. Dame a player on the national Denver. The fourth-seeded Irish, Irish team, said. “And that car-“It’s one of those moments that 
It’s still gold helmets vs. winged scene, that the rivalry has picked who barely snuck into the NCAA ried over to the rest of the game.” I’m going to look back to the rest helmets, “Go Irish” vs. “Go Blue” up steam. Tournament and were playing in Michigan, a team always of my career as a hockey player and the Notre Dame Victory Notre Dame’s accomplishments their first Frozen Four, were tak-known for its offensive potency, and even after that.” March vs. Hail to the Victors. are still modest compared to the ing on No. 1 Michigan in the fought back and the third period A year later, the Irish and 
As fierce as the rivalry between banners that hang in Michigan’s national semifinal. Notre Dame ended with the teams deadlocked Wolverines met again in a playoff Notre Dame and Michigan is on Yost Arena. The Wolverines have jumped out to a surprising 3-0 4-4. 5:44 into overtime, situation, this time at Joe Louis the gridiron, it’s equally as won nine conference champi-first period lead with goals from Ridderwall, who entered the Arena in Detroit with the CCHA intense on the ice. onships and nine NCAA titles, Calle Ridderwall, Mark Van game with just three goals on the title on the line. Backed by an 
As CCHA rivals, the Irish and while Notre Dame has just two Guilder and Ryan Thang, chasing season, scored his second of the overwhelming maize and blue Wolverines have played annually CCHA titles to its name, from Wolverine goalie Billy Sauer. game to propel the Irish to their since Notre Dame rejoined the 2007 and 2009. “Being aggressive from the first ever NCAA Championship see RIDDERWALL/page 17 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Sciacca concludes career 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
It takes a special kind of tal­ent to start for all four years on a collegiate varsity sports team. Count senior volleyball star Kellie Sciacca among that group. 
In the four years that Sciacca has been with the program, she has taken part in every one of the team’s 113 matches, and her historic four years at Notre Dame have been flush with accomplishments and honors. 
The middle hitter has been named a top Northeast Region Performer by the American Volleyball Coaches’ Association (AVCA) in each of her seasons, and just recorded the 1,000th 
see SENIOR/page 16 


FENCING 

Irish athletes head to Paris for Worlds 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 

Before the season even begins for Irish, many mem­bers of the team are off reminding the world of Notre Dame’s dominance in the sport of fencing. Both former and current Irish fencers are competing in the International Fencing Federation’s (FIE) World Championships, hosted in Paris, France. 
Current team members, sophomore Courtney Hurley and junior Ewa Nelip, com­peted in the women’s epee individual championships which finished Monday. The pair was also joined by Courtney’s older sister and former Irish fencer, Kelly Hurley. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said he views the results of the competition as indicative of the friendly sis­terly rivalry between Kelly and Courtney, where big sis­ter reigned supreme. 
“I saw Courtney in practices starting as a child, always chasing her sister who was just a bit better and older,” Bednarski said. 
In this competition, Kelly again bested her little sister, although both siblings had impressive finishes. Kelly 
see HURLEY/page 16 






