the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


DelegationtovisitVaticanforBessettecanonization 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
A delegation from Notre Dame, led by University President Fr. John Jenkins, will be present at the Vatican Sunday for the can­onization of Blessed Brother André Bessette, a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
“I think [the canonization] is an opportunity not only to reflect on the person canon­ized, but also the call to holiness in all our lives, ” Jenkins said. 
The first member of the Congregation of Holy Cross who will be proclaimed a saint, Bessette was born in Canada in 1845 and entered religious life at the age of 25, according to a University press release. 
Bessette spent his 40 years as a Holy Cross brother serving as a doorman, laun­
derer, janitor and sacristan at Montreal ’s College of Notre Dame. In this position, he also received

See Also 
many poor “Game collection and sick visitors. 
to beneft Haiti” 
“He was page 3 a person 
of deep 
compas­sion,” Jenkins said. “When people came to him … he would treat them with great compassion and kindness.” 
Bessette visited Notre Dame’s campus at least once during his life, Jenkins said, but his greatest connection to the University was in his devotion to Saint Joseph and his spiritual example. 
“I think the spirit of Brother André is closely connected with the spirit of Notre Dame in many ways — the spirit of welcome, com­munity and compassion, ” Jenkins said. “Brother André had a very simple job of manning the door, but he made it into a real calling of holiness and I think we can all reflect on that.” 
Notre Dame’s delegation to Rome also includes University Provost Thomas Burish, Associate Vice President and Counselor to the President Fr. James McDonald and Notre Dame theology department Chair 
see VATICAN/page 5 


Group awards pro-lifer 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame Fund to Protect Human Life will award its first Evangelium Vitae Medal to Richard Doerflinger, associ­ate director of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB), according to a University press release issued earli­er this week. 
“We are looking for an Doerfinger American who has contributed over a long period of time significantly to the pro-life movement, espe­cially at the beginning of life,” said David Solomon, chair of the Fund’s governing commit­tee. “It was the active role he’s played, specifically in political life … that made us choose [Doerflinger].” 

Doerflinger has been a leader in the pro-life movement for over 30 years, according to the University’s press release. Solomon said Doerflinger works with the USCCB in Washington D.C. on pro-life issues and was especially active in presenting the USCCB’s stance on abortion in the feder­al government’s recent health­care debates. 
The University’s Center for Ethics and Culture established the Notre Dame Fund to Protect Human Life earlier this year. It relies on private donors, not University money, to dedicate itself to pro-life issues, specifically at the begin­ning of human life, Solomon said. 
see PRO-LIFE/page 5 


Gay student shares experience 

TOM LA/The Observer Senior Brandon Buchanan, who struggled in the process of coming out at Notre Dame, said he can empathize with gay teens who commit suicide. He said Notre Dame students underestimate the possibility that a similar tragedy could occur here. 
Recent teen suicides raise questions about the level of acceptance on college campuses 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
After senior Brandon Buchanan decided to come out to the Notre Dame community as gay, he felt “surrounded and suffocated” by the heterosexu­al culture at the University. 
Single-sex dorms, parietals forcing his female friends to leave and talk of “ring by spring” felt overwhelming to Buchanan and he got severely depressed. 
“I had a really, really hard time,” he said. “I wanted to drop out of school.” 
Buchanan said the process of coming out was challenging enough when it was done by choice. If someone had outed him before he was ready, he “[couldn’t] even imagine” what it would feel like. 
The case of Rutgers University freshman Tyler Clementi, who committed sui­cide Sept. 22 after his room­mate streamed a live encounter between Clementi and another male on the Internet, is one of several recent incidents that have raised questions about the level of acceptance on college campuses. 
The Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) at Saint Mary’s College held a candle­light vigil last night in response to the recent sui­cides. 
“The Rutgers situation was just horrifying. It was just one of those things that puts every­thing back into perspective,” Karen Borja, SAGA president, said. “If it happened there, there is a possibility that it can happen here.” 
Borja said the vigil was meant to “show that Saint Mary’s cares,” but also to give a voice to the issue and start a dialogue. 
Buchanan said this kind of 

Observer File Photo Students present a petition asking that sexual orientation be added to the non-descrimination clause on March 19, 2009. 
preemptive dialogue is exactly what the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s community needs. 
“[You] should never have to lose a person to have that con­versation,” he said. 
But Buchanan said he hasn’t heard many students dis­cussing the issue since Clementi and other similar cases made headlines. 
“I honestly don’t think Notre Dame people think it could happen here,” he said. “And I would disagree.” 
Buchanan estimated there are about 200 people in the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) communi­ty at Notre Dame. Among those, he said about 150 are closeted students who could potentially be outed without their consent. 
“There are people here who are completely unwilling to come out but are in these ten­uous situations where some-
see LGBT/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College to provide internet security sessions page 3  Fall Break in the Bend page 12  Hockey to play Lake Superior page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, October 14, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik John Cameron Megan Finneran Sara Felsenstein Megan Golden 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Jordan Gamble 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR B GGEST PET PEEVE? 




Chase Riddle Colin Keeler Elizabeth Andrews Lauren Aristorenas 
junior junior junior junior K eenan Stanford Pasquerilla W est Lew is 
“Bros w ho do “Loud nerds in “Chris Bell.” “People feeding notuse the the Fishbow l.” the squirrels. w ord ‘Bro.’” They are fat 
enough w ithout your help.” 

Tim Zintak 
senior 
O ’N eill 
“People com plaining abouthow m uch people com plain every tim e Facebook changes form ats.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Enthusiastic man seen in the stands at the Irish football game against Pittsburgh Saturday. The Irish closed on Pitt 23-17, winning their first home game since September. 
OFFBEAT 
Wisconsin students eat lunch at unconventional location 
LA POINTE, Wis. — Elementary school stu­dents on a Lake Superior island eat lunch at an unconventional location each day. That's until their parents found out their kids were walking and skipping to the Bell Street Tavern to eat lunch. 
Superintendent Linda Kunelius said she solicited bids for the lunch pro­gram and the tavern was the low bidder at $5 per plate. Parents and teach­ers didn't learn their chil­dren at La Pointe Elementary would be eat­ing lunch at a tavern until the day before school started. Parent School Association president Jen Croonberg-Murphy said most parents can't get past the idea their chil­dren are eating lunch at a bar. 
The Daily Press of Ashland said the Bayfield School Board finally con­sidered the matter this week and decided that for the short term, the tavern will deliver lunch to the school. 
Pa. golf course unhappy with ‘driver’ 
ERIE, Pa. — State police said an Ohio woman proved that not all drivers are welcome at one Erie-area golf course. Forty­nine-year-old Susan Fishpaw, of Bucyrus, Ohio, remained jailed Wednesday on assault, reckless endangerment and other charges for allegedly driving her Cadillac DeVille on several holes at the Crab Apple Ridge Golf Course on Monday afternoon. 
Course owner Rusty Tracy told the Erie Times-News his course was busier than usual on the Columbus Day holiday. His son hurt his arm trying to stop her in his pickup truck, which police said was rammed by Fishpaw, along with several golf carts. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Thursday Tonight friday GAME DAY 
IN BRIEF 
The exhibit “Parallel Currents: Highlights of the Ricardo Pau-Llosa Collection of Latin American Art” will be shown today from 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. It will feature Contemporary Latin American artworks from the collection of Ricardo Pau-Llosa, Cuban-American poet, critic, curator, professor and col­lector. 
Selections from the William McGraw Photography Collection will be shown today from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. The pho­tographic styles range from straight documentation to surre­alism. It will be shown in O’Shaughnessy Galleries II and III. 
RecSports will offer 10 percent off all personal training pack­ages on Monday. You can receive this discount on any Monday during the football sea­son. Log in to RecRegister to sign up. 
The “Even Fridays” event for Friday, Oct. 22 will be a Family Swim. Even Fridays is a pro­gram designed to meet the recreational needs of faculty, staff, graduate students, and their families These events are held on the second and fourth Friday of every month. Remember to sign up through RecRegister. 
On Sunday, Oct. 24 Family FIRST will host a climbing class in Rockne Memorial from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. Family FIRST seeks to improve the mind, body, and spirit of Notre Dame’s families. Registration is required for all classes due to limited availability. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Sunday monday 

LOCAL WEATHER 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
LOW 45 LOW 36 LOW 40 LOW 43 LOW 45 LOW 44 
Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Collection to benefit Haiti 

By LAUREN KELLY 
News Writer 
A collection will be taken dur­ing the second quarter of the Western Michigan game Saturday to support efforts by Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross to rebuild Haiti following January’s destructive earthquake. 
The collection will be taken in honor of Blessed Brother André Bessette, who will become the first saint from the Congregation of Holy Cross to be canonized Oct. 17. 
Mike Seamon, associate vice president of Campus Security, said the collection would be “a huge weekend celebration for the congregation.” 
“This is the perfect way to cel­ebrate the canonization of the first Holy Cross saint as well as make people aware of the rebuilding in Haiti,” Seamon said. 
All donations from the collec­tion will go to the efforts of the Holy Cross Missions in Haiti as they try to rebuild and adminis­ter to the needs of the people both physically and spiritually. 
Over 300 students have volun­teered their time to walk through the stands collecting donations. Many Holy Cross seminarians will also be partici­pating in the stadium collection, which will take place during the first media timeout of the sec­ond quarter. 
The collection will be a quick event that will only take about eight to 10 minutes, he said. 
Seamon said Notre Dame has only held two other game day collections, one after the terror­ist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 and another after Hurricane Katrina. 
Students who volunteer to take collections will have the opportunity to take a VIP tour of the Notre Dame Stadium press box and locker room. 
“It’s a small way to say ‘thank you’ for giving up their time at the game,” Seamon said. 
Seamon added that he was impressed by the number of stu­dents who volunteered to take collections. 
“It has been unbelievable how students rise to the occasion,” Seamon said. “Their generosity is truly inspiring.” 
Contact Lauren Kelly at lkelly3@nd.edu 
College to give Internet securitytrainingsessions 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
To boost awareness of com­puter security threats, Saint Mary’s College Information Technology will offer computer security awareness sessions Monday Oct. 25. 
Kathy Hausmann, coordina­tor of student computing, said three sessions will be offered at noon, 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. to educate students, faculty and staff about the dangers of the Internet, as well as other com­puter security topics. 
Hausmann said she would talk about malware, which is malicious software for the computer, as well as phishing, which is an attempt to acquire passwords or personal infor­mation illegally. 
She will also talk about using file sharing programs like LimeWire, how to create effec­tive passwords and Facebook privacy. 
According to Hausmann, each time a computer is logged onto the Internet, it is vulnerable to a variety of threats. 
“I think it’s important that students, faculty and staff attend the sessions because as long as they are using a com­puter, they are connected to the Internet, they have e-mail accounts, [then] they are sus­ceptible to the threats that are online,” she said. “We’ll just be going over best practices of what you should be aware of if you are online.” 
Hausmann said members of the College community have already been affected by such threats. 
“We have had several instances of faculty, staff and student computers infected with malware,” she said. “Since August, we have had faculty and students be affect­ed by phishing scams and we also have had issues with stu­dents having peer-to-peer file sharing applications on their computer.” 
Similar sessions have been offered in previous years, Hausmann said, but because of the constant changes in technology, this year’s sessions will offer more up-to-date information. 
“I’ve done these sessions for a couple of years now, but they keep changing,” she said. “Just as the technology changes, the scammers and the spammers and the hackers and the malware writers come up with new ways to trick peo­ple and so we always have to 
try to be  one  step ahead of  
them.  
“These  are  our  tools  for  

defense. Education is what can protect you.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 14, 2010 
STUDENT SENATE 
Membersrefocustoward on-campus programs 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student Senate discussed shift­ing student government’s focus from off-campus issues to on-campus safety and programming during its meeting Wednesday 
“We are in a transitional period where the off-campus business has been a lot of our focus,” stu­dent body vice president Andrew Bell said. “We are trying to look back to on-campus issues.” 
After members of student gov­ernment met with University lead­ers, South Bend law enforcement, the Prosecutor’s Office and mem­bers of the local community Tuesday, Student Senate discussed the results of the meeting. 
The meeting focused on the ways students and members of the local community can protect against crime, student body presi­dent Catherine Soler said. 
“The real focus was on what students can do to be safe in the community,” she said. 
But Soler said on-campus stu­dents should also remember to take small safety precautions, like locking the door to their rooms. 
Bell said student government wants to focus more attention toward on-campus issues after so much discussion about off-campus arrests. 
“This is definitely a conversation we can bring back to dorms,” Soler said. “We need to ask what we can do here to make our nightlife on campus a little liveli­er.” 
Soler said the Student Activities Office (SAO) and student govern­ment have discussed late-night programming as a way to keep students on campus on weekend nights. 
“We want to know if SAO set up programming from midnight to 2 
a.m. if students would attend those events,” Soler said. 
Student government will soon host a week for students to give their ideas and complaints in pub­lic places around campus. 
“We should be setting up tables to ‘whine and dine’ in the dining halls,” she said. 
Bell said well-rounded input can lead to the best decisions so stu­dent government encourages stu­dents to share their feedback. 
“We really want to keep a pulse on how students are reacting to these events and stay updated on how students feel about them,” he said. 
Members of Student Senate and other student government groups investigated other schools to gauge how they deal with commu­nity relations. 
The ideas from that report will play a role in the next step for Notre Dame’s leaders, Soler said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Groups ask Board for more funding 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Several Saint Mary’s clubs and organizations asked for more funding at the Student Government Association meet­ing Wednesday. 
SGA recently gave out allot­ments, which is the amount of money each club or organiza­
tion receives for the year to cover start-up costs for events. The Board’s Finance Committee will take three of the five appeals into consideration. 
Al-Zahra, a club represent­ing the Middle Eastern and North African cultures, appealed the 
money allotted to it because funds were low following their first event, Kaitlyn Sahd, presi­dent of the club, said. 
“The purpose of club is to try and raise awareness of Arabic culture and issues on Saint Mary’s campus,” Al-Zahra vice president Caroline Proulx said. “It’s an outlet for [Muslim stu­dents] to help express their identity and what it truly means to be Muslim in the United States.” 
The Board voted to have the for the year has changed. 
But Chesley said no new information could be added during the appeal to help keep the process fair. The Board voted against the appeal. 
Saint Mary’s Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) also appealed their allotment. Karen Borja, president of the club, said the group’s execu­tives were new to the process and didn’t understand how allotments work. 
Treasurer Meg Griffin said the instructions and bylaws for the allotments were included in e-mails sent to club and organ­ization presidents, and that student government was also available for questions. The Board voted against reviewing the appeal. 
The Social Work Club was the last to present their appeal to SGA. President Maria Kenney said she was con­cerned with the allotment because the club’s events don’t reach the minimum for spon­sorship through SGA and their estimated revenue from club dues was not as high as antici­pated. 
Kenney said the club hosts events with Hope Ministries and St. Margaret’s House in South Bend during the year. 
SGA voted to have their allot­ment reviewed by the Finance Committee. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
allotment appealed and it will be presented to the Board again once the Finance Committee reviews it, Rachael Chesley, student body presi­dent, said. 
Circle K, a club that encour­ages volunteering in the com­munity, appealed their allot­ment as well. Club President Amanda Garrett said entrance fees to the national organiza­
“It’s an outletfor [M uslim students]to help to express their identity and w hatit truly m eans to be M uslim in the U nited States.” 
Caroline Proulx vice president Al-Zahra 
tion have changed, which made it harder for the club to hold its usual events. 
“We do a lot of volunteer activities throughout the year,” Garrett said. “We have parties for the Center for the Homeless and work with the convent here.” 
The Board voted for the Finance Committee to review Circle K’s allotment. The National Student Speech-Language & Hearing Association (NSSLHA) organi­zation on campus also attended Wednesday’s meeting in search of more funds. 
Katie Staak, president of the group, said a fundraising event to sell apples would not be pos­sible year because inclement weather destroyed their supply. As a result, the group’s budget 

Thursday, October 14. 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Bessette. 
dependent on your parents for 
Rocca said Bishop Kevin 
income and to support you,” he 
Pro-life 
Vatican 
LGBT 
said. 
Rhoades gave permission 
for the University to cele-
On Notre Dame’s campus, 
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 
brate the canonization with 
Buchanan said he has not 
readings and prayers that 
experienced harassment or 
A five-person committee, 
thing could happen,” he said. outright discrimination as 
Matthew Ashley. differ from the ordinary 
The delegation will arrive Sunday schedule. 
which includes Solomon, 
Another issue that played a much as an assumption of het-
Notre Dame Professors Fr. 
role in recent publicized suicide erosexism. 
in Rome Sunday morning “So the reading and the 
Wilson Miscamble, Carter 
to attend the canonization prayers of the Mass will be 
cases among gay teens was “People feel like the only 
Snead and Daniel Philpott 
and remain in Rome until taken from the texts for 
bullying and harassment. crime against the LGBT com-
and Associate Director of the 
Wednesday, during which the feast of Brother 
“Being a teen in general is munity is a hate crime. No, no 
Center of Ethics and Culture 
hard for everyone,” he said. one has been beaten up 
time Jenkins said they André,” Rocca said. “We 
Elizabeth Kirk, controls the 
would attend other Masses will also have special 
“Every teen wants to be nor-between dorms in the middle of 
fund. 
and celebrations for hymns in his honor that 
mal.” the night,” he said. “But it’s an 
The Fund will announce 
But fitting in can be more dif-atmosphere. It’s an apathy.” 
Bessette. will be sung.” 
ficult for gay teens that often Buchanan said there is an 
the Evangelium Vitae Medal 
In addition to attending The University will also 
recipient each year on 
the series of Vatican events celebrate the Mass of 
experience bullying and assumption on campus that 
Respect Life Sunday, 
harassment. Buchanan said everyone is heterosexual. 
surrounding Bessette, the Bessette in every residence 
teens tend to react emotionally “I always feel uncomfortable 
Solomon said, and award it 
Notre Dame delegation will hall Oct. 31, followed by a 
meet with Vatican officials, special night of prayer at 
and think the mistreatment will with ‘Do you have a girl-
on the Feast of the 
Annunciation, which falls on 
Jenkins said. These meet-the grotto in honor of the 
never end. friend?’” he said. 
ings include work with the newly canonized saint Nov. 
March 25, 2011. 
“You assume that the way Buchanan suggested using 
Vatican ’s Office of 1, Rocca said. 
you’re treated in high school is “inclusive language” by asking 
The award includes a 
$10,000 prize and a special-
Christian Unity regarding “This is the first saint of 
the way you are going to be questions like, “Do you have a 
Notre Dame ’s Tantur the Congregation of Holy 
treated always,” he said. significant other?” 
ly commissioned medal, 
Ecumenical Institute in the Cross, and because of that 
Buchanan said this hopeless-Borja asked students to be 
according to the press 
release. 
ness is a significant factor in tolerant of the LGBT communi-
Holy Land. it’s more important that 
While Jenkins and the the University celebrate his 
the choice to commit suicide ty at Notre Dame and Saint 
This medal is part of a 
and gay teens need role models Mary’s. 
larger initiative by the Fund 
Notre Dame delegation are canonization, and that our 
to Protect Human Life, 
who can tell them that it will “Coming out is something 
in Rome, on-campus events students in particular come 
will also honor Bessette. to know who this holy man 
which will be formally 
get easier. really profound. It’s like the 
announced within the next 
Fr. Peter Rocca, rector of of a very humble heart 
“No matter where you go, essence of a person. If you can’t 
six weeks. 
the Basilica of the Sacred was,” he said. 
homophobia will be there. respect that then what can you 
“We’re starting a big new 
Heart, said all three 
However, your ability to handle respect?” she said. “There just 
Masses in the Basilica Contact Laura McCrystal 
pro-life initiative in general, 
it, your self-confidence and needs to be that tolerance for 
and we’re going to call it the 
Sunday would honor at lmccryst@nd.edu 
your own knowledge will grow other human beings.” 
Project Guadeloupe,” 
as you get older,” Buchanan Buchanan said change is 
said. “You just have to wait for slowly occurring at Notre Dame 
Solomon said. “It’s a project 
that will both involve educa­
it. You just have to survive the in regards to accepting the 
tion efforts here at Notre 
pain that you feel now and LGBT community, but that does 
believe that it will get better.” not mean the University is 
Dame and research efforts.” 
The initiative will encour-
Another factor is the fear that immune to tragedies like those 
age programs such as an 
they would lose their support that have occurred throughout 
system. In particular, Buchanan the nation. 
annual life seminar on Notre 
Dame’s campus, a number of 
said many worry they will lose “Do I think that we’re making 
courses about life in the 
the unconditional love of their strides as a community? Are 
Notre Dame curriculum and 
parents if they come out. we trying? Yes,” he said. “But 
a two-year master’s degree 
“People don’t understand could it still happen here? Yes.” 
and service program based 
what it would be like to fear 
losing that foundation, espe-Contact Sarah Mervosh 
on pro-life work, Solomon 
said. 
cially when as a teen you are at smervosh@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 14, 2010 

Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Dems come to Reid’s aid in ad spending 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Eager to protect their politically vul­nerable Senate leader, Democrats plan to sink more than $2 million into Harry Reid’s home state of Nevada in the final weeks of the campaign, but have begun scaling back in Missouri where polls show their can­didate trailing. 
The adjustments, described by officials from both par­ties, come as Republican ­leaning outside groups main­tain a drumbeat of advertis­ing in both states as well as in other key battlegrounds. 
In the contest for control of the House, Republican-allied groups are planning a $50 million advertising drive, an extraordinary surge of spending aimed at keeping Democrats on the defensive. 
Reid is trying overcome a strong re-election challenge from tea party -backed Republican Sharron Angle, who reported raising $14 million in the last three months. And the committee charged with electing Senate Democrats has reserved air­time to help Reid withstand a barrage of negative advertis­ing from GOP -aligned groups, according to the offi­cials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they do not discuss strategy pub­licly. 
Democrats also are spend­ing considerably less than they had planned in Missouri this week, where Democrat Robin Carnahan is struggling in her race again Republican Rep. Roy Blunt. Democrats have cut airtime reservations for the state in the next two weeks, too, but they still could decide to run ads dur­ing that period. 
The shifts in strategy illus­trate the volatile nature of the political landscape in the closing days of the election. Candidates and outside groups are setting records for spending. In House con­tests, Republican -allied organizations are broaden­ing the field by injecting money against House Democrats that the party had not counted as their most vulnerable. 
The Democrats’ chances of winning Senate seats cur­rently held by Republicans in Missouri, Florida, Ohio and New Hampshire have dwin­dled. Polls show GOP candi­dates in the lead. Democrat Jack Conway in Kentucky also is lagging Republican Rand Paul, but Senate Democrats still are spending money in the state. They say Conway still has a strong chance of winning. 

page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 14, 2010 
O’Donnelldismissespaststatements 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, Del. — Republican Senate hopeful Christine O’Donnell is dismissing com­ments she’s made over the years on religious and social issues such as evolution, sexual absti­nence and homosexuality, saying they’re not relevant to the cam­paign. 
Squaring off against Democrat Chris Coons in a nationally tele­vised debate, O’Donnell said Delaware voters want to hear about job creation and spending, not comments she made as a tel­evision commentator long ago. She refused to say if she still believes evolution is a myth, as she has said in the past. 
Coons, a county executive, argued that O’Donnell owes vot­ers an explanation. He said her remarks are directly related to how she would serve in the Senate, citing Supreme Court nominations as an example of where they might come into play. 
The 90-minute debate was held at the University of Delaware and moderated by CNN’s Wolf Blitzer. The network carried the first hour of the debate. It pitted Coons, who excelled as a debater in college, against O’Donnell, who has appeared as a conservative pundit for years on TV shows such as Bill Maher’s program. 
Coons opened the debate by calling O’Donnell an extremist who would promote partisanship instead of compromise. O’Donnell, a tea party favorite, shot back that Coons would be a “rubber stamp” for Democrats in Washington. 
One light moment was provid­ed by O’Donnell, who chided Coons: “You’re just jealous you were not on Saturday Night Live.” 
The show has spoofed O’Donnell a couple of times, mak­ing light of some remarks she made as a television commenta­tor over the years, including that she dabbled in witchcraft while in high school. 
She challenged Coons’ record as New Castle county executive, accusing him of making pledges and “breaking those promises as soon as he takes office.” 
“He will continue to rubber-stamp the spending policies com­ing from Washington,” she added. 
Coons accused O’Donnell of dis­torting his record and said he hoped the pair could have a con­versation, rather than her launching into a “diatribe.” 
O’Donnell, who in the past has described homosexuality as a social disorder, said the decision on “don’t ask, don’t tell” should be left to the military and that “Congress should not be forcing a social agenda onto the military.” 
Coons said he would move swiftly to repeal it, calling the pol­icy “discrimination, plain and 

Interstate abortion provider suspended 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. — A New Jersey doctor who ferried patients to his Maryland clinic for late-term abortions that he wasn’t authorized to perform in New Jersey had his license sus­pended Wednesday by regulators who called his actions “manipu­lative” and “deceptive.” 
Dr. Steven Brigham started late-term abortions with medica­tion in Voorhees, N.J., and fin­ished them in Elkton, Md., where state law is more permissive, authorities said. He has no hos­pital privileges in New Jersey. 
The New Jersey attorney gen­eral’s office said Brigham was “grossly negligent” in transport­ing the patients. 
Brigham plans to appeal the state Board of Medical Examiners’ suspension of his only remaining medical license. He said during testimony that he believed everything he did was legal. 
He told state regulators it was more “economical” for patients to have their late-term abortions performed at his office in Maryland rather than a hospital, as would have been required in New Jersey. 
Brigham’s attorney, Joseph M. Gorrell, has said the doctor vio­lated no laws by transporting patients. 
Brigham owns American Women’s Services, which has offices in several states. He has had his license suspended or revoked in some states, dating to 1992, and was found to have botched two abortions in New York. Authorities in Maryland have ordered him to stop prac­ticing medicine. 
“Dr. Brigham plays fast and loose with the rules,” Deputy Attorney General Jeri L. Warhaftig told the board, adding that if Brigham is allowed to keep his New Jersey license, “he will just go find another state” in which to perform abortions. 
Much of the case centered the definition of when an abortion begins. 
Warhaftig said Brigham start­ed late-term abortions with med­ication in New Jersey, where he wasn’t permitted to perform them, and finished them in Maryland, where the law is more permissive. 
In New Jersey, Brigham gave women drugs that caused fetal death and softened the cervix, and also inserted a device to help dilate them. 
His attorney argued that administering the drugs and dilator was preparation for the procedure, not the start of it. Gorrell said the board had already ruled on that distinction in 1994, when it defined abor­tion as “the evacuation of the fetus and placenta.” 
simple.” 
O’Donnell also called for extending the Bush-era tax cuts. 
Coons was more guarded, say­ing, “We should do those tax cuts that have the best chance of get­ting our economy going again.” 
The two candidates also sparred on health care, with O’Donnell assailing the Democratic health care overhaul that became law this year. “One out of four Democrats have gone on record saying they oppose Obamacare,” she said. 
But Coons said there are “sig­nificant advances” in the bill. When O’Donnell said it would put Uncle Sam in the examination room, Coons snapped, “That’s a good slogan ... How does this bill actually put Uncle Sam in the examination room?” 
O’Donnell trails Coons by dou­ble digits in some polls and has been dogged by questions about her background and past state­ments. 
Fed. agents deport disabled citizen 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — A mentally dis­abled U.S. citizen who spoke no Spanish was deported to Mexico with little but a prison jumpsuit after immigration agents manipu­lated him into signing documents allowing his removal, a lawsuit filed Wednesday alleges. His lawyers say the agents ignored records showing his Social Security number, while prison offi­cials wouldn’t tell concerned rela­tives what happened. 
The lawsuit filed in federal court in Atlanta by the American Civil Liberties Union seeks damages from the federal government and people ranging from Obama administration officials to immi­gration agents. It also asks for a jury trial. 
Mark Lyttle was serving prison time in North Carolina for a mis­demeanor offense in 2008 when prison officials say he gave Mexico as his place of birth, drawing the attention of immigration agents. His lawyers acknowledge he even­tually signed papers allowing his deportation, but argue he was too mentally disabled to understand what he was doing. He spent four months in Central America before his family helped him return. 
“The government failed to pro­tect Mr. Lyttle, and individuals who lacked the proper training and oversight violated Mr. Lyttle’s con­stitutional rights,” the lawsuit said. The government does not have the right to deport U.S. citizens. 
The lawsuit also alleges discrim­ination because Lyttle is of Puerto Rican descent and looks Hispanic. 
A spokesperson for the U.S. Department of Justice said the department would review the complaint once the government is served and will respond in court. An ICE spokesman said the agency wouldn’t comment, citing ongoing litigation. 
A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security did not have immediate comment on the lawsuit. 
The ordeal began after Lyttle, now 33, was charged with inap­propriately touching a female orderly at a psychiatric hospital. In August 2008, he was sentenced to 100 days in prison. 
When Lyttle entered custody, “he reported his place of birth as Mexico City, Mexico,” said Keith Acree, spokesman for the North Carolina Department of Correction. 
A parallel federal lawsuit is being filed in North Carolina against immigration and prison officials there. 
Lyttle’s lawyers wouldn’t make him available for an interview, but relatives have trouble believing he’d say he was from Mexico. 
“I couldn’t believe that, honest­ly,” his 31-year-old brother David said. “That doesn’t even make sense.” 
He was interviewed by multiple immigration agents in prison. One agent’s notes say “Mr. Lyttle’s name was assumed to be ‘Jose Thomas’ and that Mr. Lyttle’s true name, Mark Daniel Lyttle, was assumed to be an alias,” the law­suit says, adding that the agent wrote that Lyttle entered the U.S. illegally from Mexico at age 3. 
Immigration agents “coerced and manipulated” Lyttle more than once into signing false state­ments saying he was a citizen of Mexico and agreed to be deported, the suit says. 

Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Ethnic hate crime case wraps up 
Associated Press 
SCRANTON, Pa. — Two young men were filled with alcohol and testosterone — and, as prosecutors charge, ethnic hatred — when they took part in the fatal beating of a Mexican immigrant two years ago. 
Now it’s up to a jury to decide whether they are guilty of a federal hate crime. 
Jury deliberations will begin Thursday in the trial of former high school football players Brandon Piekarsky and Derrick Donchak, charged in the July 2008 death of a 25­year-old illegal immigrant in the small town of Shenandoah. 
In her summation to the all-white jury, Justice Department prosecutor Myesha Braden said Wednesday that Donchak, now 20, and Piekarsky, now 18, were motivated by their dislike of Shenandoah’s grow­ing Hispanic population when they beat and kicked Luis Ramirez during a random late-night encounter in a park. 
Afterward, she said, the young men joked about what they had done and plotted to lie to the police. 
“They showed no remorse that night ... no sense of responsibility for having beat­en a man to the point of death,” Braden said. 
The defendants, along with two of their friends who have already pleaded guilty, “acted as a team,” she said. “As a team they issued racial threats and slurs. They told him as a team to go back to Mexico. And they beat him as a team. The defendants are responsible together for what happened to Luis Ramirez.” 
Donchak and Piekarsky were charged in federal court with violating Ramirez’s civil rights after an all-white jury in Schuylkill County cleared them of serious state charges last year. 

Prosecutors allege that Piekarsky delivered a fatal kick to Ramirez’s head after he’d been knocked uncon­scious by another teen, Colin Walsh, who pleaded guilty in federal court and testified against his former friends last week. 
Donchak took part in the fight and then conspired with Shenandoah police to cover up the crime, federal prosecutors say. The accused officers are scheduled to go on trial early next year. 
Both defendants are charged under criminal provi­sions of the Fair Housing Act, while Donchak faces addition­al counts related to the cover-up. The hate crime charge carries a maximum sentence of life in prison. 
As they have all along, defense attorneys insisted Wednesday that the fight stemmed from youthful aggression — not ethnic hatred. 
“Brandon Piekarsky is not, nor has he ever been, a racist,” said James Swetz, Piekarsky’s attorney. 
He ridiculed the govern­ment’s theory that Donchak and Piekarsky intended to deprive Ramirez of his feder­ally protected housing rights, saying they didn’t even know that Ramirez lived in Shenandoah. 
The fight began late in the evening of July 12, 2008, when a half-dozen drunken teens, all football players at Shenandoah Valley High School, were walking home from a block party and came across Ramirez and his 15­year-old girlfriend in a park. A verbal altercation escalated into a wild melee, with punch­es thrown on both sides. 

Obama considers gay military appeal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary Robert Gates warned Wednesday of “enor­mous consequences” for men and women in uniform if a judge’s order abruptly allow­ing gays to serve openly in the military is allowed to stand. 
The Obama administration may well ask for a stay of the ruling while it appeals. Justice Department officials worked behind the scenes on their response into Wednesday night with no word on when there would be an announcement. The uncer­tainty of the next step left gay-rights activists as well as the military in limbo over the status of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” law. 
A day after a federal judge in California ordered the Pentagon to cease enforcing the law, Gates told reporters traveling with him in Europe that repeal should be a ques­tion for Congress — and only after the Pentagon completes a study of the impact of lifting the ban, which is due Dec. 1. 
Allowing gays to serve 
openly “is an action that requires careful preparation and a lot of training,” Gates said. “It has enormous conse­quences for our troops.” 
In Tuesday’s ruling, U.S. District Judge Virginia Phillips ordered the military “immediately to suspend and discontinue any investigation” or other proceeding to dis­miss gay service members. The 1993 law says gays may serve in the military but only if they keep secret their sexu­al orientation. 
Phillips wrote that the law “infringes the fundamental rights” of current and prospective service members. 
Gay rights advocates cau­tioned gay service members to avoid revealing their sexu­ality for fear that the Phillips ruling could be tossed out on appeal and they would be left open to being discharged. 
Defense Department offi­cials would not say what was happening to current dis ­charge cases, or even confirm how many pending cases there might be. A Pentagon spokesman, Col. David Lapan, said no written guidance had been issued to commanders on how to deal with the court order. 
An Air Force officer and co-founder of a gay service member support group called OutServe said Wednesday he will continue using a pseudo­nym out of concern that he could still be discharged. 
“Can I come out right now and be OK? And if I made a statement would it be held against me?” asked the offi­cer, who calls himself JD Smith and said he is an Air Force Academy graduate. He said service members are hoping the Pentagon will clarify the meaning of the court ruling. 
Warren Arbury of Savannah, Ga., said he’d love to re-enlist in the Army two years after being discharged in the middle of a tour in Iraq. But he’s being cautious and patient. 
“I think it’s still way too soon, ” said 28 -year-old Arbury, now a university stu­dent. “If I was to hear news that automatically everything would be reinstated, I’d be the first one in the door.” 
Arbury said he wants to know more about how the military would reintegrate gay ex-soldiers: “If I go back in I want to know, Do I get my rank back? Do I get any dam­ages or compensation?” 
The uncertainty extended overseas. When asked by a reporter whether the ruling had had any impact yet, a two -star U.S. Army com ­mander in eastern Afghanistan suggested he was unsure anything would change and said it was unlikely that his soldiers even knew about the court order. 
“If that law is changed, they’ll abide by the law,” but “that’s probably the farthest thing from their mind ” as they fight, said Maj. Gen. John Campbell, commander 
of the 101st Airborne Division. 
The Justice Department is considering whether to appeal the Phillips ruling, and its first response may well be another trip to the judge ’s courtroom in Riverside, Calif., to seek a stay, or temporary freeze. If Phillips turns down the request, the Justice Department probably would then turn to the federal appeals court in California. 
If the government does appeal, that would put the Obama administration in the position of continuing to defend a law it opposes. 
White House press secre­tary Robert Gibbs said time is running out for the ban on gays serving openly. 
“This is a policy that is going to end,” he said. 
Gates, who supports lifting the ban once the Pentagon puts in place a plan for mini­mizing disruptions, said that besides developing new train­ing for troops, regulations will have to be revised. 
Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, face disagree­ment by some senior general officers on whether lifting the ban would cause serious dis­ruption at a time when troops are fighting in Afghanistan and winding down a long war in Iraq. 
The incoming Marine com­mandant, Gen. James Amos, and his predecessor, Gen. James Conway, both have told Congress that they think most Marines would be uncomfort­able with the change and that the current policy works. 
In part to resolve the ques­tion of how the troops feel, Gates has ordered a study that includes a survey of troops and their families. 
Gates has said the purpose isn’t to determine whether to change the “don’t ask, don’t tell” law, which he says is probably inevitable, but to determine how to end the policy without causing seri­ous disruption. 
Cultural values in the U.S. have shifted since the law was passed, yet there remains a powerful rhetorical weapon for opponents of lift­ing the ban — fear that it would weaken a military at war. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, October 14, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A new NHL great 
It’s an argument that should not even be an issue. It’s like arguing about the weather or the solution to a simple mathematical problem. Some things are just obvious. In this case: who is the best player in the National Hockey League? 
Alexander Ovechkin has proven himself far away and away the greatest man on ice since 

Matthew 
the Great One, 
Robison 
Wayne Gretzky. I know Sidney Sports Crosby fans are Production fuming right Editor now, but I will make my case. 
First, there is the obvious. He is the reigning MVP. Then, there are the sta­tistics. You’re right, Penguins fans, Crosby did have more goals than Ovechkin last year. He also played in nine more games. Give Ovechkin nine games to make up to score two goals, I bet my left arm that he does so. In fact, I bet a reasonable amount that he goes for 60 goals instead of 50. 
Why, you ask, did Ovechkin play nine less games last year? Was he bruised up and decide to sit out? Did Capitals bench boss Bruce Boudreau have an argument with him and bench him? None of those are the correct answer. In effect, the “Great 8” was robbed of the points and goals crowns by the NHL because he plays too hard. He hits hard, he chases down opponents and his wide frame is too much for defenders to handle sometimes. He was slapped with several suspensions last year, all of which were heavily dis­puted for their triviality. 
Essentially, this argument is between Ovechkin and Crosby. But, I would argue that Crosby’s not even the best player on his team. Evgeni Malkin impresses me much more with his dekes, hits and goals. I just do not get excited when Crosby stands in front of the net and slaps at the puck until it squirts between the netminder’s legs. 
On the other hand, every time Ovechkin touches the puck, the entire crowd sits on the edge of its seat. Defenders and goalies anticipate shots from impossible angles. Even if it’s one-on-two, he finds a way to weave, dodge, fake, lift his skate and get a shot off. If it does not go in, it whizzes over the stick-side shoulder of the goaltender. 
There is one key difference that I will grant to the Ovi-haters and the Crosby-lovers. Sid did raise the Stanley Cup two years ago and the Capitals were knocked out of the playoffs as the No. 1 seed in the first found last year. 
But, the way Ovechkin has taken the Capitals from cellar dwellers to peren­nial powerhouse is something of note. It is yet to be seen if he can break through and win a title. With the way he plays night in and night out, the electricity he has created in D.C. and the players that have gathered around him, it is only a matter of time before he hoists the trophy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Hats off to Judge Phillips 
A federal judge recently took an enormous step towards correcting one of the most heinous injustices present in our society. On Tuesday, United States District Judge Virginia Phillips issued an injunction order-Ryan Williams ing the govern-
Guest 
ment to immedi-
Columnist 
ately cease enforcement of the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy regarding openly gay U.S. sol­diers serving in the armed forces. 
The policy, introduced as a compro­mise between Democrats and Republicans in 1993, stated that, while gay soldiers were forbidden from serving in the military, no one was to be asked about his or her sex­ual orientation, thus essentially allowing gay men and women to serve, so long as they did not reveal their sexuality. However, the law required that any soldier who did come out as openly gay while serving in the armed forces be immediately discharged from the military. Thanks to the courageous actions of Judge Phillips, no one will ever again be subjected to this egregious injustice. 
“Don’t ask, don’t tell” is a bad poli­cy and a bad law. Since the policy was enacted 17 years ago, more than 13,000 soldiers have been discharged for revealing their sexual orientation. In an era when this country is fight­ing multiple wars in Iraq and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Afghanistan, it’s not exactly a wise decision to disqualify any man or woman who is willing and able to serve, especially given the well-docu­mented recruiting difficulties that the armed forces have faced in recent years. What’s more, many of the original architects behind “don’t ask, don’t tell” have since disavowed the policy or acknowledged that it is unjust and counterproductive. 
Three current and former chairmen of the joint chiefs of staff have come out against the policy, as has Defense Secretary Robert Gates (a Republican) and Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama. In addi­tion, the idea that having openly gay soldiers serving in the military would decrease troop morale and negatively affect unit cohesion has been defini­tively debased and refuted, as more and more people continue to acknowledge the extraordinary con­tribution and sacrifice that gay men and women have made to the defense of their country. 
Conservatives will undoubtedly decry the ruling as yet another example of “judicial activism;” that is, of an unelected judge legislating from the bench and overturning the will of the people. It is a charge that has been leveled countless times throughout this nation’s history, by politicians on both sides of the aisle. These politicians have used the specter of “judicial activism” to attack such historic rulings as Brown 
v. Board of Education, Roe v. Wade and Citizen’s United v. Federal Election Commission. Most recently, the charge was lobbied at Judge Vaughn Walker, whose brilliant rul­ing in California nullified that state’s grossly unconstitutional ban on same-sex marriages. The truth is that judicial activism is not the mon­strous evil that some politicians make it out to be. As evidenced by each of these rulings, it is often the only way in which the rigid partisan­ship of Congress can be overcome so that bad laws can be thrown out. In the case of “don’t ask, don’t tell,” Congress attempted to hold a vote on repealing the policy several weeks ago, but obstructionist grandstanding and special interests prevented the bill from coming to the floor. Thanks to the courageous ruling of Judge Phillips, the 17 year wait for gay ser­vicemen and women is over, and no one will ever again have to hide their true identity in order to serve their country in the military. Hats off to Judge Phillips, an extraordinary woman who was not afraid to stand up and do the right thing. 
Ryan Williams is a recruit coordinator for the University. He can be reached at rwilli28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“With the gift of listening comes thegift of healing.” 
Catherine de Hueck Russian social activist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There shall be eternal summer in the grateful heart.” 
Celia Thaxter 
U.S. poet 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, October 14, 2010 page 11 
Who knows the road down which 
Fall Break leads? 
I spent Fall Break of my senior year studying for the LSAT’s. What a waste. 
Not a waste in that I would have pre­ferred Florida with my friends, though this was certainly true. But a waste in the sense that: 1) my Fall Break Fr. Lou DelFra activity successful­ly got me enrolled Faithpoint in law school, and 
2) I spent precisely one month there before running out the back door, con­fused, depressed and completely lost. And all that good beach time lost forev­er. 
This utterly wasted week of my life is just one of the reasons I am so capti­vated by the odd story of the little man who will be canonized this weekend in Rome as the first Holy Cross saint — Brother André Bessette. He’s one of the few people I’ve discovered who script­ed his life worse then me. 
If our vocation is the “call” God has for each one of us, the plan for our life, then God, it would seem, needs a new communications director. Hardly any­one hears it right on the first try. Certainly, I did not (nor, frankly, on the second or third try either … ) Certainly, and consolingly, Brother André did not, nor did those trying to guide him on his way. To wit: André was so sickly when he was born that his parents had him baptized immediately, fearing he would not survive the night. It was an opening act of stark poetic justice, presaging the constant underestimation of the power of this physically under-devel­oped man. (André would never top five feet, was constantly sick, yet would live to the age of 91.) Even more telling, entrusted so quickly into the hands of God, André’s immediate post-birth bap­tism would be a telling beginning to a life that, even while constantly hanging by a thread, was marked by both a total dependence on God, and absolute­ly prodigious accomplishments. 
Still, if this was the introduction to the world of “The Miracle Man of Montreal,” as he is now known in the central city square there that bears his name, and at St. Joseph’s Oratory, André’s “chapel” in honor of his hero, which has become the second largest church in North America (behind only Our Lady of Guadalupe), nothing about his birth remotely suggested it. Nor did much of what followed. 
André was orphaned at 12, and unschooled and illiterate, followed the only path that seemed to open before him and much of the rest of rural French-Canada in those years — a move to the urban centers in search of industrial employment. Then, some­where in the midst of being helplessly swept along these socio-economic tides, André — sick, overwhelmed, con-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR  UWIRE  
Attack  Can you read this column  
unjustified?  through?  

Its always been my dream to be the target of a Viewpoint attack, but I never thought my Scholastic essay “On Guilt” would be the reason. 
I thoroughly enjoyed Ms. Zorb’s critique of my essay (“The ration­ality of dining hall guilt,” Oct. 13); however, I feel she might be –– to paraphrase myself –– irrationally bothered by my suggestion that we should not feel guilty about waste in the dining hall. 
First, I would hope she realized that absolving students from their waste was not the point of my article. That example was about two short paragraphs of a page essay; it was not meant to be a study of waste and its harmful effects. Ms. Zorb should notice the title is not “On Waste and how it affects African children.” 
Second, there is a difference between feeling guilty and realizing that waste could have harmful effects on others. In my opinion, one does not need to feel guilty to realize that waste can be harmful, and that one should alter their behavior to minimize these effects. Much like my Catholic elementary school teachers, Ms. Zorb sees guilt as a motivator; however, I do not see that connection. If guilt motivates you to do the right thing, Ms. Zorb, I encourage you to keep feeling guilty. I, however, do not need guilt to know that I should limit my waste. 
Perhaps my example was poor and, obviously, no one should waste food just for the sake of wasting it. At a school grounded in Christian thought, one does not do the right thing because he or she feels guilty; one does it because it is right. Guilt has nothing to do with it. 
Furthermore, I would caution her from making sweeping state­ments such as “Resources like gasoline, whose carbon emissions are contributing to global climate change, which is having the largest negative effects where? … Africa” without citing any research. I will not say she is wrong because I do not know enough about the subject, but as any professor would tell you, “cite your sources.” 
To answer her final question: No, I do not feel guilty yet. Guilt would imply that I did something wrong, and I am not sure that is what I did in my essay. I am saddened, however, that someone would read my essay and boil it down to one example for the sake of airing poorly developed ideas about guilt, waste, and climate change. That is something to feel guilty about. 
I encourage everyone to read my article, and see if Ms. Zorb is justified in her attack. 
Chris Milazzo 
sophomore O’Neill Hall Oct. 5 
fused — somehow believed himself to have been called by God. 
But … to do what? Lacking the edu­cation needed for priesthood, and chronically sickly, André was first rejected, then barely accepted, by the Congregation of Holy Cross, which was justifiably worried that André was unfit to perform even menial tasks in service to the order’s ministries. Then, inexpli­cably, assigned to the potentially stulti­fying task of college porter, André’s life suddenly caught fire. The sick came to him and were healed. The unemployed spoke with him, and left encouraged. André’s chapel to St. Joseph began to fill with crutches and wheelchairs left by the newly cured. The church began to grow through donations from the newly employed. André, apparently, was in the precise place God needed him — which utterly unpredictably was the front gate of College Notre Dame as the doorman. My own life having taken so many unpredictable and at-the-time apparently fruitless turns, this is the story of my kind of saint. 
Eleven years ago, 62 years after André’s death, a 9-year-old boy was removed from a smashed car outside Montreal, with a severe cranial injury and in an irreversible coma. He was brought back to life after his family entrusted him to the prayers of Brother André. The young man today is a healthy university student, two adjec­tives which, ironically, lay permanently beyond the reach of André himself. The boy’s healing is the miracle, accepted by the Vatican, that made André a saint. André’s dogged persistence in a life of apparent dead-ends, his refusal to unclasp his hands or his heart from the belief that God was powerfully at work in his apparently unremarkable labors, is what makes him a model for those of us still searching. 
God’s call in our lives is rarely a clar­ion summons, or an obvious path that rolls out smoothly ahead of us. The script of how our lives will unfold with deep meaning, purpose, love and pro­ductivity is not likely to be handed to us during Fall Break, or any other week. Faith, persistence, hope in God’s Providential guidance, especially when a clear way is not apparent — these are some of the lessons of Brother André for us on the eve of his canon­ization, and the eve of our next life decisions. 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Campus Ministry director of Bible Studies and ACE director of Pastoral Life. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
As a freshman, I regularly ate breakfast at Centennial Hall. In the dining hall I would witness students who were preoccupied by a laptop, MP3 player and cell phone, despite being surrounded by friends. It required obnoxiously loud screams and boisterous hand gestures to rouse them from their tech-Julian Switala nological stupor. Even after 
The Minnesota 
catching their attention, 
Daily 
they were unwilling to communicate and quickly returned to the digital domain. 
This experience is a manifestation of “the screen invasion,” a term coined by Matt Richtel, a technol­ogy reporter for The New York Times. The term describes the ubiquity of technological gadgets con­stantly inundating us with information. Significantly, our constant use of technology is influ­encing us in unforeseen ways. Current research is uncovering both its cognitive and behavioral effects. 
Technology has effectively become a necessity for anyone who wishes to survive in contemporary society and it certainly does have its benefits. But does it make us more productive? Sure it can — if you’re careful. 
According to a 2009 Stanford University study, truly productive multitasking is far more challeng­ing than previously thought. The problem, says the study, is that “processing multiple incoming streams of information is considered a challenge for human cognition.” This is because the more one multitasks, the more difficult it becomes to filter out irrelevant information. 
With our cell phones, iPods, laptops, video games, Kindles — the various mediums of entertainment and communication — researchers at the Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale in Paris, France have found that we may not be able to effectively multitask at more than two tasks. 
Our technological devices insidiously persuade us that we effectively multitask. They’ve made it incredibly easy for us to procrastinate since they follow us everywhere. As we get bored of one task, we can effortlessly move on to another. Rather than complete one task at a time, we choose to suspend our work by temporarily focusing on a relatively easy task, like answering an e-mail or text mes­sage. 
Yet multitasking is only the tip of this microchip iceberg. The effects are even more drastic. A 2008 study from the University of California found that acute stress, which is experienced when interrupt­ed by one’s gadgets, results in the release of corti­cotropin, a stress hormone that severely impedes our ability to learn and form memories. 
This finding is magnified by our desire to con­stantly check our digital devices. As Richtel states, when you check your gadget, “you get what [scien­tists] call a dopamine squirt.” 
“You get a little rush of adrenaline. So you’re get­ting that more and more and more and more,” he told NPR. “Well, guess what happens in its absence? You feel bored. You’re actually condi­tioned by a kind of neurochemical response.” 
The reality is that technology in our life is inevitable. However, rather than completely discon­necting, we should be creating downtime that allows us to relax and not think about the buzz in our pocket or the e-mail in our inbox. Perhaps it’s as simple as sitting down and enjoying your break­fast without any distractions. 
This article first appeared in the Oct. 13 edition of The Minnesota Daily, the publication serving the University of Minnesota. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 
Scene
page 12 Thurssday, October 14, 2010 


The movies were originally filmed in Sweden victim, but she is unexpectedly accused of three and have English subtitles. The filming of an murders. American version of “The Girl with the Dragon As Lisbeth and Mikael separately try to clear Tattoo” began recently in Sweden starring Daniel her name, the first movie’s themes of violence and Craig (“James Bond”) and Rooney Mara (“The sex become prevalent once again. Social Network”). Highly dramatic and provocative, these movies 
In “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo,” known as are racy and fast-paced thrillers, and a good way “Men Who Hate Women” in its original Swedish to close the sleepy fall break if you’re stuck on version, computer hacker Lisbeth Salander campus. (played by Noomi Rapace) and journalist Mikael For more information about upcoming events at Blomkvist (played by Michael Nygvist) team up to DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, including solve a murder mystery. “Halloween Bugs,” a tribute to classic Halloween-
Forty years ago, Harriet Vanger disappeared themed Warner Brothers and Looney Tunes car-
By MARIELLE HAMPE 
from the island her powerful family owns, and her toons, visit performingarts.nd.edu. 
Scene Writer 
uncle is convinced a family member murdered 
If you’re looking for an action-packed adventure her. He employs Lisbeth and Mikael to investigate. with dynamic characters, intense plot and vio-As they delve into Harriet’s disappearance, they On campus lence then stop by DeBartolo Performing Arts uncover a number of grotesque murders and 
What: “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo” and 
Center on Fall Break to see “The Girl with the reveal dark secrets about the Vanger family. The 
“The Girl Who Played with Fire” movies 
Dragon Tattoo” and its sequel, “The Girl who movie has an ample supply of violence, sex and 
Where: DPAC Browning Cinema 
Played with Fire.” The Los Angeles Times called gore, and it explores the themes of feminism and When: “Tattoo” – Friday, Oct. 22 and Satuday, “Dragon Tattoo” a “mind-bending and mesmeriz-sexual violence against women. Oct. 23, 6:30 p.m.; “Fire” – Friday, Oct. 22 ing thriller that takes its time unlocking one mys-“The Girl Who Played with Fire” is the next and Saturday, Oct. 23, 9:30 p.m. tery only to uncover another, all to chilling and installment in Larsson’s trilogy. Mikael, the jour-How much: $3 for students, $4 for seniors, immensely satisfying effect.” nalist, is about to publish a story that will link $6 for everyone else
Learn more: performingarts.nd.edu 
The two movies are adapted from Swedish jour-many well-known Swedish society members to an nalist Stieg Larsson’s internationally best-selling extensive sex trafficking operation between “Millennium” trilogy. Larsson died at the age of 50 Sweden and Eastern Europe. Lisbeth wants to get before his novels were published. involved in Mikael’s story because she is a rape Contact Marielle Hampe at mhampe@nd.edu 

Theaters: Few plotlines are true to real life. 
AMC Showplace South Bend 16, 450 W. “The Town” – An ensemble cast of fantastic Chippewa, South Bend actors with an intriguing storyline, this action Cinemark Movies 14, 910 W. Edison, drama is receiving a lot of early Oscar buzz. 
Mishawaka) “Secretariat” – My Computer Essentials teacher Cinemark Movies 6 (second-run dollar theater) freshman year of high school said that Back in the day, they 6424 N. Grape, Mishawaka Secretariat was the greatest athlete in sports his-
Kevin Noonan 
only had one theater in tory. That is patently false; horses aren’t ath­this town and it only Movies: letes, and besides, horse racing is barely a sport. 
Scene Writer 
showed “Bridge Over the “Hereafter” – Clint Eastwood makes good But Secretariat was still kind of a big deal. River Kwai” and “The movies. It opens this Friday. “Toy Story 3” – If you haven’t seen it, see it. If Alamo.” And they had to walk five miles uphill “Red” – Bruce Willis, Morgan Freeman and you have, see it again. Showing at the dollar the-both way in the snow with no shoes or socks. John Malkovich come together for an action ater. 
In the happening, expansive metropolis of South comedy. It may not be “Die Hard,” but anywhere Bend and the surrounding area, there is a pletho-close would make for a pretty decent movie. The views expressed in this column are those ra of theater options (three), each showing a vari-Opens this Friday. of the author and not necessarily those of The ety of excellent films worth seeing. Here’s a quick “The Social Network” – Here’s a movie about a Observer. look at where to go and what to see this Fall tool at Harvard (redundant?) who made a load of Kevin Noonan can be reached at Break. money by stealing ideas from a bunch of people. knoonan2@nd.edu 
Scene Staff Report 
North and South Dining Halls close their doors and turn off their ovens after the post-game candlelight dinner on Saturday. Students have a few options for food: stocking up on Grab ‘n’ Go, limited-hour establishments in LaFortune or perhaps the restaurants at Eddy Street Commons. For those with the means to go off Lunch: lic bread, then buckle down for a delicious campus, there are many options for a taste of Lula’s pizza. Their dough is thin yet soft, and 100 per-South Bend. 1631 Edison Road, South Bend cent delicious. 
Go to ndsmcobserver.com/scene for links, driv­ing directions and other information. Within walking distance of Notre Dame, Lula’s Late-night: 
is a great place to chill out and maybe do some Fiddler’s Hearth Breakfast: homework. Along with their fresh sandwiches, 127 North Main Street, South Bend Uptown Kitchen make sure to request the “Lula’s Dip” with your 303 Florence Avenue, Granger chips and wash it all down with one of their Fiddler’s Hearth is an Irish pub located in 
many flavors of iced tea. downtown South Bend. The menu features 
Uptown Kitchen is a local eatery from the folks British favorites, from fish and chips to Welsh behind the newly-opened The Mark at Eddy Dinner: rarebit, and American classics, like burgers and Street Commons. Uptown Kitchen has a little bit Rocco’s sandwiches. The pub often hosts local musicians of everything, but is especially known for its 537 North St. Louis Boulevard, South Bend at open mic nights. For those of age, Fiddler’s breakfast food — for those who like to sleep in, has a variety of great imported beers on tap, breakfast is served all day. The Stuffed French Make sure you bring along your other campus-including Guinness, Smithwick’s, Harp, Toast is a popular favorite. Uptown Kitchen has breaking friends with you to one of South Bend’s Hoegaarden and Hacker-Pschorr. Best of all, something for everyone, including vegetarian finest pizza places, because the portions are everything on the menu is delicious and totally and gluten-free options. huge. Start off with some salad and cheesy gar-affordable. 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene
Thursday, October 14, 2010 page 13 

obsession for those involved. Families going down and seeing them all the time, about academic misconduct at the 
By WARD PETTIBONE 
relocate to be closer to practice locations. it’s something that I’ve lived with for eight University of Minnesota basketball pro-
Scene Writer 
Players spend more time with coaches years,” he said. gram. A year later, that article won him 
What do LeBron James, Kobe Bryant than with their parents. Keller even The quality of his writing shows it. The the Pulitzer Prize in beat reporting, and and Kevin Garnett have in common? All missed the birth of his own daughter to story is gripping, the pacing is fluid, and Sports Illustrated took notice. three played on Amateur Athletic Union be at a tournament. the characters are vivid. Even at over 400 That story remains his favorite of all the (AAU) teams before rising to stardom. But But beyond the madness of all the pages, Dohrmann is able to maintain our articles he has written, but he also ranks the path to NBA greatness is far from games and practices, beyond the story of interest. He carefully avoids sensational-his coverage of the Michael Vick dogfight-smooth, with greed, corruption and grassroots basket-ism, doing his best to ing scandal and a recent exposé about the crushed hopes along the way. “Play Their ball, is a story about 
preserve a journalis-NFL agent business as “some of the best Hearts Out: A Coach, His Star Recruit, people. Dohrmann ‘Play Their Hearts Out: tic objectivity. At work I’ve done.” and the Youth Basketball Machine,” a focuses on 
times the particulars Unsurprisingly, Dohrmann is unpopular 
A Coach, His Star 
of the game and the with many of the people he reports on, to expose the dark underbelly of the AAU promising athlete Recruit and the Youth system get in the but the Pulitzer noted his “determined system. who is the center of new book by George Dohrmann, sets out Demetrius Walker, a 
way of the charac-reporting” in the face of this reaction. He Dohrmann, a Pulitzer Prize winner and Keller’s Inland Stars. Basketball Machine’ ters, but otherwise recently received a call from Keller, who alumnus of Notre Dame, will be at the In fact, Keller comes 
the book strikes a had gotten a copy of the book from 
by George Dohrmann 
winning balance Dohrmann. 
Hammes Bookstore Saturday from 9:30 to treat Walker as a between the two. “Obviously [Keller is] not very happy a.m. to 1:30 p.m. for a book signing. A son, brother and col-
Publisher: Random House, 2010 

Dohrmann began with the way I portrayed him,” he said, is an investigative journalist for Sports on his mood. The member of the class of 1995, Dohrmann league, depending 
his “vocational train-but added that some of the parents Illustrated. Beginning in 2000, he spent other players look 
ing” as a journalist “thought that I did a great job.” eight years chronicling the Inland Stars, a up to Walker as a 
at The Observer dur-Whether or not the book causes team of talented young players led by guiding force in the 
ing his time at Notre changes in the AAU system remains to be coach Joe Keller. team — the glue 
Dame. seen, but Dohrmann has been cautious Dohrmann met Keller while working on holding them togeth-“I just wrote and with his predictions since his first exposé an article about corruption in profession-er. 
wrote and wrote … backfired (instead of discouraging the al basketball. Though the article failed to The Inland Stars 
it really helped me grassroots coaches, that article increased 
On campus 
find my voice as a their business). mined to dig deeper into the closed-off players come and provoke change, Dohrmann was deter-win and lose and writer,” he said. “When I set out to write a story I try 
What: Book signing by Pulitzer-
He cites natural not to think about what impact it will world of grassroots basketball, where go. This is real life 
Prize-winning journalist George 
curiosity and meticu-have,” he said. 
children as young as 8 or 9 years old are and disappointment 
Dohrmann 
Where: Hammes Notre Dame lousness as the main If a change does come of his work, he tial. He came to Keller with a proposal: is something surreal Bookstore skills he learned, in said, “that’s just a bonus.” allow him unfettered access, and he in finding these When: Friday, Oct. 16, 9:30 a.m. addition to a talent With the book finally published after ten wouldn’t publish anything until the boys young people in very to 12:30 p.m. that helped him win years of work, Dohrmann said he had “an were in college. Keller agreed. grown-up situations, How much: Hardcover book, $26 Keller’s confidence. itch … for another longer project.” As his 
The result is “Play Their Hearts Out,” but they deal with scrutinized and exploited for their poten-is inevitable. There 
“It’s about being first is already receiving significant atten­and Dohrmann sugarcoats nothing. Keller life’s challenges able to connect with tion, this seems likely. is depicted as a mercurial, self-serving maturely, and there is a noticeable people,” Dohrmann said. Highly recommended for basketball leech and the shoe companies that spon-change in the way the boys carry them-Two years out of college, Dohrmann fans and anyone looking for a well­sor the teams are dishonest at best. The selves after eight years. was an intern at the Los Angeles Times. researched, in-depth true story, “Play boys are abused emotionally, physically Ultimately, not everyone lands a schol-Dohrmann said his editors “would just Their Hearts Out” will leave readers and even sexually. Defeats bring tirades arship. Some drop the sport entirely kind of laugh” if he proposed a feature he thinking, both about the grassroots sys-of profanities from coaches and parents before the book’s close. In the end, the wanted to write, so he began breaking tem and professional sports in general. As and great plays are ignored if they did not hoop dreams of a few are realized, while news, in his words, “bringing them some-Demetrius Walker said, “a lot of people prevent a loss. Yet the youngsters press the majority walk away empty-handed. thing they weren’t getting” from the more are going to be watching now because of on, determined to do better and play To take on such a grand project, even experienced writers. this.” harder in pursuit of an elusive scholar-after winning a Pulitzer Prize, was signifi-He eventually broke some stories about ship or draft pick. cant for Dohrmann. UCLA, and from California he went to St. Contact Ward Pettibone at 
The grassroots world becomes an “Talking to the boys and their parents, Paul, Minn., where he wrote a piece wpettibo@nd.edu 



MEN’S INTERHALL 
Alumni looks to gain momentum for playoffs 
Undefeated Vermin seek top seed in playoffs; Zahm seniors hope to finish career with one last victory 
page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 14, 2010 

By SAM GANS, MATTHEW DEFRANKS, KELSEY MANNING AND ADAM LLORENS Sports Writers  doing poorly. We’re very proud of the defense.” Knott and Alumni will battle in each team’s final regular season contest tonight at 7:30 pm at LaBar Fields.  the game in their favor. “We’ve played against run-heavy offenses and pass-heavy offenses but theirs is pretty bal­anced,” Marrero said. “But I think we can play good defense  
and contain them.”  
Alumni and Knott square off on Thursday in a game that may seem like it may not have a lot riding on it. The two teams, how­ever, could not disagree more with that notion. Alumni (3-0) has already clinched a spot in the playoffs and Knott (0-3) has been elimi­nated from postseason con­tention. Both teams, however, think winning Thursday’s contest is critical. Alumni is hoping to earn a vic­tory not only for a better seed, but also to build momentum  Sorin vs. Carroll When Carroll takes the field on Thursday night against Sorin, the Vermin will attempt to complete an undefeated regular season and claim the No. 1 overall seed for the playoffs. Fresh off a shutout win over Zahm, Carroll (3-0) brings in a high-powered offense averaging nearly 16 points per game that is led by talented freshmen in quar­terback Jack Gardner and wide receiver Bobby Dorman. “They’re both very talented and hard-working in practice and  While this game is just for seed­ing for the Vermin, the Otters still must secure their spot in the postseason, where a rematch is plausible. “We’re both pretty good teams, atop our division and it’s possible we meet them in the playoffs,” Sullivan said. This will also be the first night game of the year for both teams. “[The lights] will definitely be cool, very reminiscent of high school games,” Marrero said. “It will be a lot of fun.” Sorin and Carroll will take the  GRACE KENESEY/The Observer St. Edward’s running back Sean Philbin is brought down by two Fisher linemen during Sunday’s game.  
heading into the playoffs. The Dawgs wish to get better in cer­tain key areas, as well. “We definitely want to win the game,” Alumni junior captain Dan Dansdill said. “We definitely want to score points and try to get a good seed, but at the same time we’re really looking for an opportunity to improve. 4-0 is that much better than 3-0, so we’re focused on getting a win first and foremost.”  they step up on game day,” Carroll sophomore captain Keith Marrero said of his freshmen. “You just can’t say enough about their work ethic.” These freshmen form just part of the Carroll squad that has no seniors on the roster. “They’ll always be freshmen to us,” Marrero said. “But everyone contributes equally on this team.” To counter Carroll’s youth movement, Sorin (2-1) sports a  field to close their seasons at 8:30 p.m. on Thursday at LaBar Fields. Zahm vs. St. Edward’s St. Edward’s and Zahm will battle for pride as the two teams close disappointing seasons with the annual “Battle for the Shadow” match. For the Zahmbies (0-3), Sunday’s loss to Carroll clearly had no effect on their indomitable  “I don’t know if we could beat air right now,” Mathes said. “We need to score a lot of points against Zahm to make it to the playoffs, so we’ll have to play our best football of the year.” Although their last contest looked more promising for the Gentlemen with the return of jun­ior wide receiver Joey Ricioli, their passing game was still not quite there. On Thursday St.  senior left tackle Michael McDonnell said. “It is a matter of chemistry between our players. A couple of our guys lacked focus so we need to step it up against Morrissey.” One of these important changes for the Ramblers will be moving established sophomore running back David Whitmore to quarter­back. “We are going to approach this  
Alumni used a strong running game to pull off an upset win against two-time defending champion and previously unbeat­en Siegfried last Sunday. Despite the fact that Alumni moves from  couple of dynamic sophomores on offense — quarterback Ted Spinelli and wide receiver Ryan Robinson — who connected on two touchdown passes in Sorin’s last game  optimism. “I’m feeling pretty good about [Thursday’s game],” senior line­backer, captain and coach Mark Pomerenke said. “I don’t know if we’ll be able to field a  Edward’s will face yet another obstacle. “We actually lost another receiver to a knee injury so that will probably affect us,” Mathes said. “We will probably stick with  game as a win or go home sce­nario. So our playoffs begin Thursday night against Morrissey,” McDonnell said. For the Manor (2-1), the team hopes to ride their high tide of  
playing a perennial power one week to a winless team the next, Dansdill does not anticipate the Dawgs will have a letdown game. “I’m actually not too worried about [us coming out flat],” Dansdill said. “I feel like our guys are going to show up. I feel like they are going to have their game faces on.” Knott, on the other hand, is playing for nothing but bragging  a g a i n s t Zahm. Despite that win, t h e O t t e r s c a p t a i n B o b b y Sullivan said his team has resorted  “W e’ve been using m ouse traps during practice.Ithelps keep us on our toes [on offense].” Bobby Sullivan Sorin Captain  team, but hopefully we do and we win.” The Zahmbies have been working to improve their offense throughout the season, and Pomerenke said Thursday night could be their breakthrough game. Since it will be the Zahm seniors’ last game, he said the  the run game more than we would like to.” As a last resort to help them pull out their first win, the Zahmbies have been spending a lot of time in the film room to prepare for St. Edward’s. “We have been watching Rudy a lot,” Pomerenke said. The spirited rivalry between the two dorms will take place at 8:30 p.m under the Thursday  momentum to a win on Thursday. Morrissey sophomore captain Alex Oloriz said the team plans on chanting, “Eat your beans Rory, eat your beans,” multiple times during the game. The cheer is an ode to one of Morrissey’s most consistent players, junior kicker Rory Carroll, who came up huge for the Manor last week by scoring all of their 6 points, including a pressure-filled 39­ 
rights. Though their postseason hopes are dashed, Juggerknotts junior captain Dan Shaffer said his team would come out with lots of heart, as they look to notch their first win. “We’ve been trying to work as hard as we can throughout the season,” Shaffer said. “I don’t  t o unortho­dox prac­tice methods this week in prepa­ration for this game. “We’ve been using mouse traps during practice,” Sullivan said. “It helps keep us on our toes [on offense].”  upperclassmen hope to pass the torch to the young Zahmbies. “We have a lot of inspired young kids on the team and I think they’re going to step up,” Pomerenke said. “There are only a few years of interhall football left ahead of them, and interhall  night lights at LaBar Fields. Morrissey vs. Siegfried In a highly anticipated match-up, Siegfried will square off against Morrissey tonight with playoff implications on the line. The Ramblers (2-1) lost in a tough battle last week against  yard field goal as time expired in the first half. “We are counting on Rory again this week to step up when the time calls for him to do so,” Oloriz said. “We need to control the ball and keep their run-oriented offense off the field as much as possible. Our defense must come  
think it’s going to die off at all.” Knott has not managed to score a touchdown yet this season. Coming off a bye, the Juggerknotts hope that the extra practice time can bring their struggling offense up to the level their strong defense has been playing at. “We’ve been having trouble offensively and got to try to work that out,” Shaffer said. “Our defense hasn’t seemed to be  Sorin, running an offense that combines elements of the spread, option, wildcat and pro-style offenses, has scored 52 points on the season — second in the men’s league to Dillon. “We want to put the ball in the end zone every single time,” Sullivan said. Carroll, however, believes their defense — a unit that has not given up a point since their first game — is strong enough to tilt  is where dreams are made.” The Gentlemen (1-2) on the other hand have had their confi­dence rocked this season. With multiple injuries, difficulty exe­cuting offensively and a pair of upsetting losses, St. Edward’s is not in the position it had hoped for. Junior captain Jay Mathes cited scoring points and not mak­ing mental mistakes as two of the Gentlemen’s biggest obstacles this season.  Alumni. Unfortunately for Siegfried, the game was not the only thing they lost. A plethora of starters, including senior quar­terback Matt Meinert, were injured, resulting in an interest­ing game plan for the Ramblers heading into their biggest game so far this season. “We have been making sure the new starters get more reps now that they have been taking over for the injured players,” Siegfried  up with three-and-outs through­out the course of the game.” Doth teams will be treating this as a must-win game as they step onto the LaBar Fields at 7:30 p.m. Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu, Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu, Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu and Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran­ite countertops, GE appliances w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting. Call JSK Development 574-387­4466. 
———————————————— NOW RENTING 
2011-12 4BD/2BA 
HOUSES. 
STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS 
574-876-6333 ———————————————— 
AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574-876-6333 ———————————————— 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu. 
——————————————— Chess Lessons: USCF and FIDE 
(International Chess Federation) 
Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess Champion and coach of 1997/8 K-8 National Championship team 
Dennis Monokroussos is offering lessons to players of all ages and levels (local &amp;amp; online). 
Please contact historicchess@com­cast.net for rates and information. 
———————————————— A little inspiration from Lou Holtz... 
It is a fine thing to have ability, but the ability to discover ability in oth­ers is the true test. 
Life is ten percent what happens to you and ninety percent how you respond to it. 
No one has ever drowned in sweat. 
The problem with having a sense of humor is often that people you use it on aren't in a very good mood. ———————————————— 
Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Favre injures elbow threatens starting record 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — Brett Favre’s latest problem is his elbow. 
With the NFL investigating whether he sent lewd photos 
of 
himself to a Jets game hostess while he played for New York in 2008, Favre said Wednesday that his cher ­ished, league-record streak of 289 straight starts could be in danger if the pain in his right elbow gets any worse. 

The 41-year-old quarter­back did not practice with Minnesota on Wednesday, preferring to rest the tendini­tis that flared up noticeably 

on 
Monday night in the Vikings 29-20 loss to the Jets. 


“I don’t want to play just to play,” Favre said. “It’s kind of a funny injury. It could flare up and get worse.” 
It’s even more adversity for Favre this season, which so far has been anything but a repeat of last year’s charmed run to the NFC title game. How bad is it? On Wednesday, local TV station WCCO posted video of Favre getting hit in the groin by a stray football during a warm up before practice started. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell said on Tuesday there is no timetable for completing an investigation into a Deadspin report that Favre sent inappropriate messages and photos to Jenn Sterger in 2008. 
And the Vikings are off to a 1-3 start heading into what they call a must-win game against Dallas on Sunday. 
“I don’t rank them,” Favre said on Wednesday when asked how the allegations measure up to other issues he’s dealt with in his career. “I’m thrilled to be here and have an opportunity to lead this team to the Super Bowl. ... There’s still a lot of foot­ball left. I feel very confident in a lot of ways. 
“You go through different things in your life. Football is a very tough sport, mentally and physically. Last year was great. Almost too great. But I woke up this morning and was very eager to get over here. Moreso than last year at this time, to get this back on track. I feel confident that (the team) will right itself in the end.” 
In 20 years in the NFL, Favre has been through tough times before. 
From his addiction to pain killers early in his career, to his wife being diagnosed with breast cancer, and through the death of his father, Favre has always managed to keep his focus on the game, often delivering some of his best performances along the way. 
“I think he’s really handling it well. I really do,” said Vikings kicker Ryan Longwell, a close friend of Favre’s from their days together in Green Bay. “The guy is so resilient and has his priorities straight, and I think in the midst of a tough, tough situa­tion, across the board, I think he’s handled it really well.” 
Favre said on Wednesday that it was his elbow, not the investigation, that hampered him against the Jets. 
He completed 14 of 34 pass­es and grabbed his arm sev­eral times as he tried to rally the Vikings. He threw three touchdowns in the second half, but also sealed their fate with an interception that was returned for a touchdown late in the fourth quarter. 
Coming off the most accu­rate season of his career, Favre missed several wide 
open receivers on throws “that I could have made blindfolded” were it not for the pain in his elbow. 
“You’re not going to make every throw but I would have made some of those throws,” Favre said. 
He insisted yet again that the allegations from a Deadspin report played no factor in his performance. Favre said his preparation and focus “may even be bet­ter” now than it’s ever been. 
Vikings coach Brad Childress said he’s “worried about both” Favre’s physical condition with the elbow injury and his mental state with the investigation ongo­ing. But he also said that he feels that way about all of his players after the slow start for a team that began the year with Super Bowl aspira­tions. 
“I am not overly concerned about where he ’s at with whatever he’s got going on in his life,” Childress said. “I don’t mean to minimize it. It is what it is. But I see a guy that is here ready and pre­pared and doing the work. I don ’t see ill effects from that.” 
His teammates are rallying around their leader, the man they prodded to return for one more run at a title. 
“I respect the guy so much, and I’ve seen him go through a lot over the 14 years we’ve been together,” said Longwell, who was one of three Vikings to visit Favre in Mississippi in August. “And certainly we realize he stuck out his neck for us when we went down there and we cer­tainly are not going to turn now at this point.” 
The Vikings host the strug­gling Cowboys on Sunday and then have games at Green Bay and at New England to finish a brutal four-game stretch. 
Favre said he will “be smart” with his practice reps this week to rest his elbow as much as possible, all while trying to quickly forge a con­nection with new receiver Randy Moss. 
He feels “very good about the preparation” this week to face a desperate Cowboys team that needs a win as much as the Vikings do. 
As for the investigation, said Childress on Monday night: “We can’t afford to have it carry over the rest of the season.” 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 2010 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

ND recharging its batteries for a win 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have had three successful tournaments over the last three weeks and are finally enjoying a few days off the course this weekend before facing their toughest competition so far at the end of fall break. 
“After competing the past three weekends we will take this weekend off from golf and just get away from the grind for a few days,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “This week Tuesday through Friday each player is focusing on their own game and where they need to get better. “ 
Notre Dame won its first two tournaments this fall before taking fifth in the third. The first title came at Michigan State’s Mary Fossum Invitational on Sept. 26, where the Irish defeated both Michigan State and Kent State, two teams they’ve struggled with in the past. 
Playing host to the William 
K. Warren Invitational the fol­lowing weekend, the Irish once again dominated on the course and successfully held off Kent State again. The Golden Flashes got their revenge the following week, though, holding the Irish to fifth at the Mercedes-Benz Championship. 
Finding areas to improve upon when Notre Dame has finished in the top-five teams of each tournament might be hard for outsiders, but Holt has a clear plan for her team over break. 
“Short game is always an area we emphasize in practice and we will continue to do that,” Holt said. “The days off I think will give us a chance to recharge our batteries for the final two tournaments of the fall.” 
The first of Notre Dame’s two final events of the fall schedule will be Oct. 22-24 at the UNCW’s Landfall Tradition Invitational at the Country Club of Landfall in Wilmington, N.C. Holt said that the tournament will put the Irish “head to head with the best field of 17 teams we have played against this year,” but she still has another game plan ready for the weekend. 
“My goal is for each player to play 18 holes of smart and well executed golf for three consecutive days,” Holt said. “As a team we have not yet played our best golf and we are competing very well up to this point but we can and must do better.” 
Among the 18 teams that will be competing in Wilmington, seven competed on the same course last May in the NCAA Championships. Among those seven is Duke, the former Landfall Tradition champion. Texas, Florida State, Virginia, Oklahoma State, UCLA and South Carolina will also be returning to the course, as well as some local favorites: Wake Forest, North Carolina, North Carolina State and UNC-Greensboro. But rankings and achievements mean little to this Irish squad, whose focus remains on themselves. 
“We really do not concern ourselves with what teams are at the tournament and who we have to beat,” Holt said. “Our goal is to win. Our best chance of winning is to play the golf course the best that we can. If we do this with the talent that we have I feel very confident we will always put ourselves in a position to win. Our toughest competition is against ourselves. We need to get out of our own way and play great golf the way we all know we can.” 
Notre Dame will tee off sometime between 8:30 a.m. and 10:36 a.m. on Friday, Oct. 23 in Wilmington. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

ND MEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish to test their spirit against Pitt 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a win at their Dennis Stark Relays last weekend, the Irish team looks to take on division rival Pittsburgh Friday in the first dual meet of the season to open their Big East confer­ence schedule. 
“We were very encouraged by the relays,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “We thought it helped us. We got off to a very good start.” 
Notre Dame opened its sea­son by winning gold in all but three races Friday to win the event overall. The Irish clocked two meet records, one in the 400-yard freestyle relay and the other in the 400-yard breaststroke relay. After suffering a loss to Michigan at last year’s meet, Welsh said he believed the enthusiasm of this year’s team has made the differ­ence. 
“One of the things we’ve been noticing is there’s a real joy and exuberance to this team,” he said. “They race with that spirit.” 
Training has been a top pri­ority for the team this year, and Welsh believes the team is faster than it was at this time last year. 
“We’ve put a lot of emphasis this year on the idea of trying to get more than one year’s improvement out of one year’s training,” he said. “The team has embraced that.” 
Pittsburgh has competed twice at home this season, and Welsh said he thought the Panthers might be a little more in tune. 
“They’ll know a little more about how the squad is shap­ing up than we will,” Welsh said. 
Irish captain Mike Sullivan said he’s looking forward to facing a tough division rival. 
“The meet against Pitt is always a fun one for us,” Sullivan said. “They always swim well against us in dual meets, and the meet is often a close one. We are definitely confident after the way we swam on Friday, but we need to just keep training for the next few weeks and be ready to swim faster. We look to improve with every meet through the season, so we’ll see if that holds true in two weeks.” 
Welsh called Notre Dame’s rivalry with the Panthers “a collegiate rivalry as it’s sup­posed to be.” 
“Inside the event, it’s very intense,” he says. “But out­side the event, there is very good sportsmanship.” 
The Irish defeated Pitt last year in their first dual meet of the season, besting the Panthers 152-148. 
“We’re a team they like to race and they will be pre­pared for us,” Welsh said. “It’s a meet I look forward to every year. We’re just eager to see where we are. We want to measure ourselves.” 
Notre Dame will take on Pittsburgh at 12 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center on Thursday, Oct. 22. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Cornerback Cox expresses passion 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Jacksonville Jaguars corner­back Derek Cox has been in the starting lineup, on the bench and on the inactive list this season. 
He handled the demotion and the promotion the same way: With little reaction and even less emotion. 
His subdued responses are part of his laid-back person­ality. But he doesn’t want anyone mistaking them for a lack of passion or enthusi­asm. 
“Football is what I do. It doesn’t define me,” Cox said. “I shouldn’t define any of these guys in here. If you look at the grand scheme of it, a football career, that’s a smidgen of your life. Even the guys that play double-digit years, it’s a smidgen of their lifetime and their life span. While I’m doing it, I give it my all. My passion is there and desire will always remain.” 
Cox was benched during the season opener, pulled after giving up a long reception, and played just one snap the next three games. The sec-ond-year pro, a third-round draft pick who started every game as a rookie in 2009, returned to the rotation last week against Buffalo and played one of his best games. 
Cox finished with five tack­les and a pass defense. 
He believes taking a step back helped him move for­ward. He’s expected to return to the starting lineup Monday night when the Jaguars (3-2) host AFC South rival Tennessee (3-2). 
“There’s a pretty strong likelihood that he reclaimed his position with that effort,” coach Jack Del Rio said. “He played well in his role, so that was good to see.” 
Del Rio gave little insight into Cox’s benching, saying only that the former William & Mary standout needed to “clear his head.” 
Fellow cornerback Rashean Mathis agreed, saying Cox tends to think too much on and off the field. 
“He ’s a thinker,” Mathis said. “I tell him that all the time. Whether it’s with food or a book he’s reading, he’s a huge thinker. It helps you in some aspects of life. But in others, you can think a little bit too much. He’s young. He just has to learn how to sepa­rate the two.” 
Cox, who led the Jaguars with four interceptions last season, had no explanation for the way his season unfold­ed. While playing through a foot injury, Cox struggled in coverage during training camp and the preseason. The Jaguars figured it would pass, but Cox got burned several times in the opener against Denver. 
Cox tried not to let it get to him. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Frilling ready to lead at Regionals 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will have their first full-team meet in three weeks over Fall Break at the Regional Qualifying tournament in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
The team’s most recent event, the All-American Pre-Qualifying Tournament in Palisades, Calif., brought suc­cess from many fronts, includ­ing advancing to quarterfinals for junior Kristy Frilling and progression to round of 16 by junior pair Frilling and Shannon Mathew. Now the whole team will join this dynamic duo on the court Oct. 21-22. 
The first all-team meet at the Eck Classic paired many of Irish teammates against each other, which included senior Kristin Rafael defeating fresh­man Britney Sanders in the sin­gles’ Blue division title match. This weekend, Notre Dame will face tough opposition beyond their teammates. 
“It’s at Michigan, so the Michigan players will definitely provide some tough competi­tion,” Frilling said. “They’re playing on their home courts and they’re a good team so they will come out fighting.” 
With the weeklong break, Notre Dame gets some time to rest, but hopefully not enough time to get off their game. According to Frilling, they should have no problems with that, and will benefit from the gap between meets. 
“I don’t think the week off influences our play next week too much,” she said. “If any­thing, the week off from match­es was needed because we all played so much the week before in our tournaments.” 
The team will have plenty of preparation time, filling in the gaps they’ve noticed at previ­ous points in the season. 
“We’ve gotten some good solid practices in, and those will help us compete well at regionals,” Frilling said. 
The Irish will travel to Ann Arbor on Oct. 21, with qualify­ing rounds taking place Thursday and Friday. The Midwest Regional official matches begin Oct. 22 and con­tinue through Oct. 26. 
Contact Megan Finneran at 
mfnnera@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 2010 
Bayliss 
continued from page 24 
NCAA time, or before.” 
The Midwest Regional qualifying round will bring in 64 players beginning on Thursday and Friday that will compete for eight spots in the main draw that will run through Monday. 
“There will be a conference call Oct. 13 to determine which players are selected and into which draw they will begin play,” Bayliss said. “I expect to get nine doubles teams in the event. We are still trying to determine exactly which players are going to pair up as doubles teams for us.” 
In this event last year jun­ior Casey Watt was able to make a strong run to the finals. This year, Bayliss noted that senior Stephen Havens has been playing at an elite level and could make a deep run in the tourna ­

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish head south after frst place relay fnish 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will head south over Fall Break in an attempt to tame a pair of Tigers in SEC opponents No. 8 Auburn and No. 25 Louisiana State. 
Despite the highly ranked com­petition, Irish coach Brian Barnes believes his team will be able to perform well in the event. 
“We know that Auburn and LSU will be very tough opponents,” he said. “I still expect our team to go down there and be competitive against a couple of really good teams.” 
Barnes stressed that his team’s demeanor and attitude will be essential for the Irish to be suc­cessful. 
“We need to approach this meet with confidence and poise, and believe that we have the ability to keep up with [Auburn and LSU],” Barnes said. 
Notre Dame will be looking to build off a successful start to the season, as they took first place at the Dennis Stark Relays on Oct. 8. Although the Irish had a strong showing at the relays, there were still many areas that Barnes want­ed to work on heading into the non-conference showdown. 
“We need to look at our starts and turns as a team,” he said. “We have been happy with our racing between the walls, but changing directions and being around the walls is something we have put a real emphasis on.” 
Barnes also stressed the funda­mentals to his team during prac­tice this week in an effort to improve going into next week­end’s event. 
“We spent a lot of times up on the blocks this week. We have really been relearning mechanics and improving our starts,” Barnes said. 
The tri-team meet will be held at Auburn on Oct. 22, with races beginning at 3 p.m. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@n.edu 

ment. 
The Irish are a very deep team again this year return­ing all of their starters from last season as well as adding new freshman such as Billy Pecor and Greg Andrews. 
“This will put them on a bigger stage and I am anx­ious to see how each handles it,” Bayliss said. “Both were in national junior singles finals a year ago. If [fresh­man] Ryan Bandy gets an opportunity to play he has looked pretty good so far, as has [freshman] Matt Dooley at times.” 
The Irish are also looking for their doubles play to con­tinue to improve as it has most of this fall season already. At the event last year, their doubles teams had a poor showing, so Bayliss is hoping with the addition of the freshmen, the results will improve. 
“The chance to demon ­strate this here in front of friendly fans is a perfect opportunity for us to show the growth that is taking place in our doubles, ” Bayliss said. “Havens and Tyler Davis are playing very well together. At times [junior] Niall Fitzgerald and [sophomore] Spencer Talmadge have been awe ­some. Watt and Anderson are pretty good. Andrews and Pecor can each factor into the doubles equation. There are others, as well, and we certainly going to have options this year.” 
The Irish will look to con­tinue the dominance that has been a strong theme this fall 
on their home turf before heading south to the Alabama Invitational the first weekend in November to round out their fall season. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles ready to relax after high-paced relay 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off their first meet of the season last week at Notre Dame’s Dennis Stark Relays, the Belles can now look forward to a more relaxed event. Unlike the three Division I teams faced last weekend, the MIAA Relays contain only fellow league participants. 
Sophomore Liz Palmer said the upcoming meet will be more enjoyable than the Belles’ foray into top ­flight compe-Saint Mary’s as they move through the season, Palmer said. 
“It was fun to see the great competition,” Palmer said. “It ended up being a really good confidence booster for us for the meet on Saturday.” 
In Saturday’s meet, the Belles will carry not only improved confidence but also improved team chem­istry and physical condi ­tioning. Palmer said new coach Mark Benishek has been instrumental in build­ing team unity and to already get­
tition. “W e getto see how the ting the “It’s really squad into 
other schools are; 
fun,” Palmer mid -season said of the there’s no pressure. form. MIAA Relays. W e’lljustsee how w e “We were 
“We get to see how the other schools are; there ’s no pressure. We’ll just see how we do.” 
The relaxed atmosphere of this 
warm-
up to regular season action differs greatly from what Palmer said seemed like a daunting task last week. 
“Going into it we were apprehensive,” she said. “Half the team was really worried and half the team was confident, but we didn’t do as bad as we thought.” 
The results of the Belles efforts against higher com­petition will encourage 
worried
do.” 
about the transition, ” Liz Palmer Palmer said Belles sophomore of bringing 
Benishek in. 
“He has 
been great, very motivational. He is really focused on the team and team building activi­ties. Also, we’re in really good shape. We are where we were physically at the end of last year.” 
The Belles will travel to Calvin at the end of Fall Break to take part in the MIAA Relays on Oct. 23. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
Clark 
continued from page 24 
Shipp’s third and final assist came in the 30th minute, when he once again took the ball into the box before send­ing it back out to junior Adam Mena. Mena connected and went top shelf into the back of the net, just a minute after entering the game. 
Clark said he was disap­pointed by the way his team came out in the second half. The Irish allowed Marquette to get on the board in the 56th minute. A Golden Eagles cor­ner kick was initially handled by the Irish, but the ball got loose and sophomore forward Chris Madsen sent the ball past Tuttle. 
“I think we kind of took out foot off the gas in the second half,” Clark said. “We lost a goal, and that made a game of it for a little while. It’s hard to keep it going for 90 minutes. That’s the challenge. We ask for a 90-minute performance, and unfortunately we got a 45-minute performance. But there were good bits in the second half, but I felt we just sat back a little.” 
Perry’s second goal of the night sealed the win for the Irish, who now begin a three-game Big East road trip. They will travel south to take on No. 2 Louisville on Saturday before heading to Seton Hall for a game on Tuesday. Notre Dame will then finish its road trip with a match against No. 6 Connecticut. 
“The first half was absolute­ly great,” Clark said. “If we play like that all the time, we’re a great team.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall to Comets once again 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles fell short Wednesday night, losing to Olivet 3-1 as Saint Mary’s failed to avenge an early season loss to the Comets. 
Saint Mary’s (4-15, 2-8 MIAA) suffered its ninth loss in ten matches. Despite the loss, Belles coach Toni Kuschel was encouraged by the team’s per­formance. 
“We had a great match up against Olivet this evening,” she said. “However, we came up short in the end. I was really happy with our defense. We had four players with double digit digs, with junior Meg Rose lead­ing the way with 25 and senior Ellen Hueslman with 22.” 
The Belles will have three matches over Fall Break next week. On Oct. 19, they will host No. 4 Calvin. The Belles lost a 3-0 (25-20, 25-18, 25-18) deci­sion to Calvin in their only meeting this season in one of the Belles’ best-played matches so far this season. In order to prepare for the Knights a sec­ond time around, Kuschel said Saint Mary’s has been switching up their game plan. 
“We will be working on mov­ing a few people around in practice this week to work in a faster offense in hopes of beat­ing out their strong block,” Kuschel said. “We will need to continue to play great defense and win the serving and pass­ing game.” 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Kalamazoo on Friday, Oct. 22. The Belles dropped a 3-1 (25­10, 16-25, 25-12, 31-29) deci­sion to Kalamazoo earlier this season in the midst of a seven game losing streak. In the marathon fourth set, there were 16 ties and six lead changes. 
The Belles will quickly travel home to host Alma on Oct. 23. 
They fell 3-0 (25-12, 25-7, 25­
18) in their first match against the Scots in September. 
Calvin, Alma and Kalamazoo are currently ranked first, third and fourth in the MIAA stand­ings, respectively. The Belles will be hoping to make up ground in the conference before the MIAA Tournament starts in early November. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 2010 
junior outside hitter Kristen 23, and Marquette (11-7, 3-2 The Irish will look to bounce some time to heal,” Brown Dealy, who has been battling Big East) on Sunday, Oct. 24. back from a disappointing said of the team’s offensive 
Brown 

injuries. Brown emphasized that weekend where they lost to leader. “This will mean we continued from page 24 “We want to give Kristen every conference game for the both Louisville will need to some time to heal,” Brown remainder of the season will a n d look at some need for improvement on the said of the team’s offensive be of the utmost importance C i n c i n n a t i , new lineups 
“Because ofour tw o 
Irish’s ‘point scoring side,’ leader. “This will mean we to the Irish. breaking their and options. when the team is serving as will need to look at some new “Because of our two confer-19-game con-conference losses last Hopefull y 
opposed to receiving the lineups and options. Hopefully ence losses last weekend, we ference win -some new peo­
w eekend,w e really 
serve. some new people will have really need to finish strong ning streak. ple will have 
need to fnish strong 
“It is so important to score the chance to play and get and win every game from Although the the chance to points and win rallies when some game-experience.” here on out,” she said. “Even m a t c h e s and w in every gam e play and get you are serving,” Brown said. The Irish will have a brief if we can’t win a regular sea-weren’t in rom here on out” some game ­
f. 
“We had a real tough time interlude from Big East play son conference championship, Notre Dame’s experience.” with that. This involves better after the match against we need to earn a strong seed favor, Irish The Irish 
Debbie Brown
serving, blocking and transi-DePaul when the team travels for the conference tourna-coach Debbie will have a tions; all of which we will to Western Michigan (13-6, 4-ment.”Notre Dame (11-6, 4-2 B r o w n Irish Coach brief interlude focus on before our next 2 MAC) on Tuesday, Oct. 19, Big East) will take on confer-stressed that from Big East match.” before returning to campus to ence opponents DePaul, there were play after the Notre Dame will return to continue their conference Syracuse and Marquette as important lessons for the match against DePaul when the court Friday when the schedule. Notre Dame will well as one out of conference squad to take away from the the team travels to Western team hosts DePaul (1-18, 0-6 take on Syracuse (20-2, 4-2 team, Western Michigan, over losses. Michigan (13-6, 4-2 MAC) on Big East), but will be without Big East) on Saturday, Oct. the next two weekends. “The two matches last Tuesday, October 19, before weekend showed us that cer-returning to campus to con­tain aspects of our game, tinue their conference sched­which earlier in the season ule. Notre Dame will take on we had felt pretty good about, Syracuse (20-2, 4-2 Big East) clearly need to be worked on on Saturday, Oct.23, and and improved,” she said. Marquette (11 -7, 3-2 Big 
Brown emphasized the need East) on Sunday, Oct. 24. for improvement on the Irish’s Brown emphasized that ‘point scoring-side,’ when the every conference game for the team is serving as opposed to remainder of the season will receiving the serve. be of the utmost importance 
“It is so important to score to the Irish. points and win rallies when “Because of our two confer-you are serving,” Brown said. ence losses last weekend, we “We had a real really need tough time with to finish that. This strong and involves better win every serving, block -“Itis so im portantto game from 
ing, and transi-score points and w in here on tions; all of out,” she 
rallies w hen you are 
which we will said. “Even focus on before serving.” if we can’t our next match.” win a regu-Notre Dame lar season 
Debbie Brown 
will return to the conference 
Irish Coach
court Friday champi­when the team onship, we hosts DePaul (1-need to earn 18, 0-6 Big a strong East), but will be without jun-seed for the conference tour­ior outside hitter Kristen nament.” 
TOM LA/The Observer Dealy, who has been battling Senior Angela Puente serves against West Virginia on Sept. 24. The Irish won the match 3-0. They next injuries. Contact Michael Todisco at take on Depaul at home on Friday, October 15 at 7:30 p.m. “We want to give Kristen mtodisco@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Piane looks to guide team to Pre-Nationals 
Jeremy Rae as the anchors for 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
the team this season. 
Sports Writer 
Jackson finished first for the Irish at the invitational, coming in 
After strong performances at at 24:13. Rae finished second at the Notre Dame Invitational, the 24:30 with Carlson close behind Irish men’s and women’s teams at 24:41. look to earn big points and valu-For the women, freshman Meg able experience at the NCAA Pre-Ryan has been the top runner for National Meet on Saturday. the Irish in the last two meets, 
“Teams will come from east, with a 17:37 finish at the Notre west, north, south and have the Dame Invitational. Senior Erica opportunity then to see the Watson followed close behind at course and run on the course,” 17:41. Irish men’s coach Joe Piane said “[Watson]’s done an incredible in an interview with und.com. job, I mean, just gotten better and “There will be roughly 80 teams better every year,” Irish women’s there.” coach Tim Connelly said to 
The Notre Dame men finished und.com. 
seventh at the Notre Dame Both teams will be looking to Invitational last weekend, while build some momentum and pick the women placed eighteenth. up points against top teams at the Competition was stiff and both Pre-National meet. Connelly is teams faced some of the top specifically looking to get some of 
schools in the country amongst the freshmen more experience, the 21-team field. especially before the upcoming “We’re going to be better than Big East Championships. that,” Piane said. “We need to get some more of 
Though neither team placed the freshmen moving forward to first, Piane wasn’t disappointed where we thought they could be,” with the day’s results. he said. “We’ve got a really young 
“We did beat some teams that group.” are going to help us get some big Notre Dame will get its nation-points for the NCAA als preview Saturday morning in [Championships],” Piane said. Terre Haute, Ind. 
On the men’s side, Piane point­ed out senior Dan Jackson, junior Contact Maija Gustin at Jordan Carlson and sophomore mgustin@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
Lee 
continued from page 24 
Jeff Jackson expressed con­fidence in his young winger. 
“I think he’s a mature kid, physically and mentally. He had a great year in the USHL last year, which allowed him to come here with a lot of confidence,” Jackson said. “The one thing about fresh­men is if they have great instincts and they’re physical­ly strong enough, generally they can make an impact.” 
Lee was one of a handful of Irish freshmen who made an impact during the opening weekend, as freshmen T.J. Tynan, Bryan Rust and Shayne Taker all joined Lee in netting their first collegiate goals. With a number of young playmakers supple ­menting an experienced core led by senior defenseman Joe Lavin and senior left wing Calle Ridderwall, Jackson said he was beginning to get a sense of where the multitude of Irish freshman fit into his lineup. 
“As we watch our team play, and as we get more feeling for some of these young guys — where they belong, where they fit and what their strengths and weaknesses are 
— then we’ll focus on those things to work on improving,” Jackson said. 
Like Notre Dame, Lake Superior State (0-1-1) partici­pated in a showcase tourna­ment to begin the season. The Lakers tied the opener of the Superior Showcase 6-6 against Minnesota -Duluth before falling 6-2 to Michigan Tech. Jackson said that although the Lakers are a work in progress at this point in the season, they would present a challenge to his defense. 

“They’ve got some guys that are good hockey players — smart, gritty hockey players, and they’re a big team,” Jackson said. “They’ve got real big forwards.” 
Though the Irish have gone through their typical pregame routine as far as scouting in preparation of their first con­ference game of the year, the team has taken a more sim­plistic approach to game preparation in the hopes of turning around last year’s sub-.500 campaign. 
“We’re trying to focus our preparation more on our ­selves and what we need to work on in practice,” Lavin said. “Last year I think we got away from that a little bit.” 
An Irish win would be the 300th of Jackson’s eleven-year career at the Division I level, spanning stints at Notre Dame and, coincidentally, Lake Superior State, where Jackson won national champi­onships in 1992 and 1994. The coach was quick to deflect praise to his players and fellow coaches, however. 
“I would never take respon­sibility for any success we’ve had here. I’ll take responsibil­ity for the failures,” Jackson said. “I’m not going to take responsibility for the success we’ve had here or my prior opportunities because it was my entire coaching staff, it was our entire support staff, it was a bunch of great kids.” 
The two-game set will be played on Thursday and Friday nights at the Joyce Center with the puck dropping at 7:35 p.m. both nights. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
O’Neill and Stanford set to change records 
Undefeated Dillon hopes to continue streak 
By JACK YUSKO and 
MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
With a playoff spot on the line, tonight’s game between evenly matched O’Neill and Stanford promises to be an intense and hard fought battle. 
O’Neill (2-1) and Stanford (2-1) are currently tied in the Green League, with both teams taking their only loss from undefeated Dillon. The winner of this matchup will advance to the postseason, while the loser will have to turn in their pads with a .500 record. 
“We’re looking to make it to the [championship game in Notre Dame] Stadium this sea­son, and winning this game is our next step toward that goal,” O’Neill freshman wide receiver Troy Suter said. 
While also looking for a playoff bid, Stanford is also looking to make up for their loss last Sunday. 
“Last game left a bad taste in our mouths,” senior captain and quarterback Tony Rizzo said. “We didn’t play our best and showed we still have room for improvement. Thursday is an opportunity to show what we’ve been working on in practice and prove we deserve to make it to the post-season.” 
Practice for both teams this week has been intense, with each team perfecting their cur­rent system instead of introduc­ing new sets or plays. Rizzo said that Stanford has been making personnel adjustments, while Suter said that O’Neill has been focusing on defensive back play and knowing their assignments. 
“We’ve got a strong receiving corps and our two-minute offense has been vastly improved; the key to this game is going to be outscoring Stanford,” Suter said. 
Stanford recognizes O’Neill’s potent offense and says that defense will be key. 
“I have confidence in our offense, and our running backs should give O’Neill a hard time all game,” Rizzo said. “But it’s our defense — led by [senior] linebacker Colin McNamara — that’ll win us this game.” 
Both teams predict a close high scoring match-up, as each has demonstrated offensive prowess in previous games. 
Stanford and O’Neill face off Thursday for the right to contin­ue playing at 9:30 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Dillon vs. Keough 
The winless Kangaroos are looking to finish the season strong under the lights and upset the Green League regular-season champion Big Red. 
Dillon (3-0) and Keough (0-3) have played the same three teams with the Big Red outscor­ing the Kangaroos 56-9 against these opponents. It will up to Keough’s defense to slow down Dillon’s explosive offense. 
“We need to stop shooting our­selves in the foot,” Keough sen­ior wide receiver Kevin Laughlin said. 
Dillon sophomore coach Lee Haruno said he was aware of the challenges Keough presents. 
“They gave Stanford a really good half last week, so we know that they can play ball,” he said. “We’ve got to turn it around really fast. We’ll hit it hard in practice so we can be ready for them on Thursday.” 
In order for Dillon to continue to be a threat on offense, fresh­man quarterback Kevin Fink said he and sophomore wide receiver Will Salvi must remain on the same page in the Big Red’s passing game. 
“We just want to keep being consistent, keep playing without penalties,” Fink said. “We real­ize that Keough’s a really good team, and we’re going to come and play hard.” 
Laughlin said he believes his team’s attitude is its strength. The Kangaroos lost by only six points in two of their games this season. 
“Our strength is our desire to play the game. We've been in a position to win every game so far, but one bad break or two has cost us in every game,” Laughlin said. “I expect that to change this week.” 
Dillon has already clinched a spot in the 2010 playoffs. They look to play well against Keough, however, they have much larger goals in mind. 
“We’re 3-0, we just got to keep it rolling, and go strong into the playoffs,” freshman safety Ben Diaz said. 
Keough, on the other hand, is ready to compete for the upset. 
“Should be a close game between two good teams, under the lights no less,” Laughlin said. 
The battle between Dillon and Keough will begin at 9:30 p.m. on Thursday at LaBar Fields. 
Contact Jack Yusko at jkusko@nd.edu and Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 2010 
Waldrum 
continued from page 24 
still a couple of wins away from that at least.” 
In fact, if the Irish contin­ue with their conference perfection this weekend, they will clinch at least a share of the National Division; two more Notre Dame wins combined with any Georgetown loss will give the Irish the crown outright. Notre Dame trav­els to face the Hoyas next week. 
At the forefront of the Irish’s minds, however, is the trip to Storrs, Conn., the site of the renewal of a tra­ditional league rivalry, albeit one that has been 
one -sided recently. The Irish have come away victo­rious in each of their last eight meetings with the Huskies. 
“We have such a rivalry with Connecticut,” Waldrum said. “They’ve been such a force in the Big East and that’s always a tough game and a tough place to play.” 
The game will also be a homecoming of sorts for Irish senior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss, who hails from Redding, Conn., and will be facing her home -state school. 
“I think it’s always good to get a chance to go home and play in front of friends and family,” Waldrum said. “I think we’re eating lunch at her house on Saturday.” 
On Friday, however, Weiss will be focused on stopping the three-pronged attack of Husky senior midfielder Elise Fugowski, sophomore midfielder Linda Ruutu and graduate student forward Angelika Johansson, who are all coached by the longest-tenured coach in the Big East, Len Tsantiris. 
“Those players, I think, are a couple of the best players in the conference,” Waldrum said. “Their team kind of goes how their two or three best players go.” 
The Friars have tradition­ally been one of the easier matchups on the schedule for the Irish, but this year promises something differ­ent. Providence opened its season with one of the best starts in program history, posting six shutout wins in eight games. Sophomore midfielder Amanda Webster and graduate student for­ward Jill Camburn will pose the biggest offensive threats to the Irish back line, but the true intangible will be the team’s confidence. 
“Providence is having really their best year ever, or at least as far back as I can remember,” Waldrum said. “I think we’re going to find a very confident Providence team.” 
With the weekend shaping up to be one that could be crucial late in the season, Waldrum took the time to mention that its importance was earned, not given. 
“If we didn’t do the work early in the season, these last two weekend wouldn’t matter,” he said. “We’ve put ourselves in a really good position.” 
The Irish clash with Connecticut at 4:30 p.m. Friday and then battle Providence at 1 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles lose close match to Hope 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Belles lost their fifth straight game Wednesday when they were defeated 1-0 by conference rival Hope. 
The Flying Dutch registered the only goal of the contest in the 11th minute when sopho­more Alyson Epolito scored her fourth goal of the season. The Saint Mary’s defense held strong after that goal, although Hope registered 22 more shots, five of which were on goal. 
The Belles’ best chance at getting on the board came in the 51st minute when Saint Mary’s nearly tied the game up off of a corner kick from sophomore Maddie Meckes to junior Taylor Patton, but Patton’s shot hit the cross bar and bounced away. Meckes, junior Katelyn Tondo-Steele and freshman Mollie Valencia also had shots on goal in the match. 
Belles sophomore goalkeep­er Caitlin Walsh had four saves in the losing effort. 
Saint Mary’s will return to its home field Friday when they take on Kalamazoo in hopes of ending their losing streak. The Hornets (5-6-2, 2­1-1 MIAA) hope to give the Belles a run for their money. 
If the Belles are to have a shot at their third victory of the season, they must contain Kalamazoo’s sophomore for­ward Jackie Short, who leads her team with seven goals this season. 

The Belles will also need their defense to kick into gear and hold strong as they did Wednesday. With the excep­tion of the Wednesday’s shutout, the Belles offense has shown improvement as the season has worn on, but their defensive performances have suffered as they have given up 20 goals in the last five games. 
Saint Mary’s will kickoff against Kalamazoo at 4 p.m. on Friday. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Thursday, October 14, 2010 page 24 
HOCKEY 
Freshman Lee named Rookie of the Week 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will open its final season in the Joyce Center tonight with a two-game series against Lake Superior State to kick off the CCHA season. 
The Irish (1-1-0) come into the contest fresh off of a sec-ond-place finish in the sea­son -opening Warrior Ice Breaker Tournament in St. Louis, defeating Holy Cross 6-3 but falling to Boston University 5-4 in the tourna­ment’s championship. 
Freshman left wing Anders Lee shined in both games, netting a hat trick against the Crusaders and adding an assist in the last minute loss to the Terriers. For his play, Lee was named CCHA Rookie 
of the Week. Irish head coach Jeff Jackson expressed confidence in his young 
see LEE/page 21 
Breaking the ice 

JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Freshman center Anders Lee races after the puck in a game against the University of Guelph on Oct. 
3. The Irish won 5-3. The next weekend Lee went on to score a hat trick against Holy Cross. 
ND MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish return to campus to compete 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a tough first showing at the ITA All ­American Event in Tulsa, Okla., the Irish will return home over fall break to host the Midwest Regional Tournament Oct. 21-22. 
“We certainly did not get the results in Tulsa that I was hoping for, but that event represented the top 64 players in college tennis,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “None of our guys had played the event before and 
our draws were difficult. What was important, though, was for each of them to see the top level and understand that we will need to meet that level by NCAA time, or before.” 
The Midwest Regional qualifying round will bring 
see BAYLISS/page 19 

ND MEN’S SOCCER 
Freshman Shipp shines with three assists in first start 
ing the Irish (6-3-3, 3-1-0 Big assists is a pretty good way to played fast, slick, great soc-goalkeeper Phil Tuttle.
By ERIC PRISTER 
East) to a 4-1 victory over the start your starting career.” cer.” “[Perry]'s getting himself 
Associate Sports Editor 
Golden Eagles (4-4-4, 1-1-2). Notre Dame struck early, as Just eight minutes later, the into goal scoring positions,” 
“It's always a little bit hard-Shipp took the ball inside the Irish struck again. Junior Clark said. “He's making goal-
er for freshmen because we 18 -yard box in the third Michael Rose played the ball scoring runs. One of the 
The learning curve for only get them for a couple of minute before kicking it back ahead to Shipp in the corner, things he does better than freshmen can be difficult to weeks, and so they've got to out to sophomore Dillon who sent it into the box where anyone else is he just makes overcome, but when freshman get into it,” Irish coach Bobby Powers, who one-timed it into it found a sliding Steven Perry, great runs, whether he's run-midfielder Harrison Shipp was Clark said. “And although the lower left corner, just out who scored his seventh goal of ning to the strong side or fad-given his first opportunity to [Shipp]'s been doing very well of reach of Marquette sopho-the season. Perry would score ing to the weak side. And he's start Wednesday night against coming in in the second half of more goalkeeper David Check. his second goal of the game very busy just now, and he's Marquette, he made the most all the other games, I thought “The tempo was fantastic,” and eighth of the year in the getting the reward with of it. Shipp recorded three that today he got his start and Clark said. “The first half was 62nd minute after an excel-assists in the first half, lead-he made his mark. Three superb. It was a clinic. They lent goal kick from senior see CLARK/page 19 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Team sets off to New England 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
With only two weekends remaining in the regular sea­son, the No. 4/5 Irish will travel to New England this weekend in search of two wins that will put them on the brink of yet another Big East National Division title. On Friday afternoon, Notre Dame (13 -1-0, 7-0-0 Big East) will face Connecticut (6-2-2, 3-3-1) before taking on Providence (8-4-2, 2-3-2) on Sunday afternoon. 
“We’re getting closer and closer to being in a position to maybe wrap up the cham­pionship,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “I think we’re 
see WALDRUM/page 20 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish working to make changes and move on 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Most students use Fall Break as a time to relax and recover from their hectic schedules. The Irish, though, won’t have this luxury, as they enter the heart of Big East play over break with four total matches. 
Notre Dame (11-6, 4-2 Big East) will take on conference opponents DePaul, Syracuse and Marquette as well as one out of conference team, Western Michigan, over the next two weekends. 
The Irish will look to bounce back from a disap­pointing weekend where they lost to both Louisville and Cincinnati, breaking their 19-game conference winning streak. Although the matches did fall in Notre Dame’s favor, Irish coach Debbie Brown stressed that there were important lessons for the squad to take away from the losses. 
“The two matches last weekend showed us that cer­tain aspects of our game, which earlier in the season we had felt pretty good about, clearly need to be worked on and improved,” she said. 
Brown emphasized the need for improvement on the Irish’s ‘point scoring side,’ when the team is serving as 
see BROWN/page 20 

Photo Illustration by Sarah O’Connor, Dan Jacobs and Blair Chemidlin 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, October 14, 2010 
COMMENTARY 
Broncos give Irish a chance to shine 
As I considered a topic for this column, there was so much temptation to write about, well, pretty much anything except for the game itself. After all, what does Saturday’s game against the Broncos really mean for the 3-3 Irish? 
I thought back to when this year’s schedule was announced and so many fans were up in arms that Western Michigan graced the Irish calendar: “How dare Notre Dame play a team from the MAC, especially when the schedule already looks soft?” Well, ask anyone about the schedule today, and the uproar is about the difficulty of Notre Dame’s first six games, and not the perceived softness of this week’s opponent. 
Similarly, I thought of those first six games, and how Saturday’s date with the Broncos marks a turning point in an Irish schedule that now includes three straight winnable games before battles with Utah and USC are sand­wiched around the Army game at Yankee Stadium. After a 1-3 start, the Irish now have a real shot at 8-4, or even 9-3, so Notre Dame should use Saturday as the first of three tune-ups before the going gets tough again. 
There are several other stats and statements being thrown about this week, and most of them have to do with how the Irish should be able to sleep­walk through this game on their way to the five-game win streak many seem to be ready to hand to them. There’s no doubt Notre Dame is the more talented team, so there is that inclination to take this game as a given and look ahead one, two or even three weeks. 
It’s one thing for us, as onlookers, to have this attitude, to gaze weeks into the future, and to check out the other major storylines around the country on weeks like this. 
But the Irish can’t afford to do that Saturday, and for what it’s worth, Brian Kelly is saying the right things to make us think they won’t. Kelly’s been in games like this from the Western Michigan perspective, and it sounds like he’s demand­ed his team’s attention all week. 
The Irish know where this game fits into their schedule and what it could mean as some big games approach. But at this point, I hope they aren’t taking anything for granted. As much as we want to think about where this team is going, let’s not forget where it’s been; while Western Michigan cer­tainly wouldn’t qualify as a “signature win,” Notre Dame hasn’t won enough lately to be satisfied with playing anything less than its best game, even against an inferior opponent. 

Saturday’s game doesn’t have the “measuring stick” potential of several the Irish have played this season, but in some ways, I think we could get our best look at just how hungry this team is. 
This game doesn’t have the added excitement of the opener against Purdue or the bitter­ness of the rivalry with Boston College. We aren’t asking, “Can the Irish slow down Denard Robinson’s Heisman cam­paign?” or “Will Notre Dame shut down future first-round pick Andrew Luck?” We’re not talking about Kelly’s coaching ties with Michigan State’s Mark Dantonio or the way Pittsburgh’s Dion Lewis torched the Irish last year. 
From the Notre Dame per­spective, there’s no extra build­up, magical storyline or bul­letin board material heading into a game against Western Michigan. If the Irish win, they’ll still be unranked, and we won’t have a much better picture of how they stack up with the best teams in the country. 
So, as much as we as out­siders want to take this game as a given or find some added meaning to the matchup, Saturday gives us a unique chance to just learn about the Irish, and especially their atti­tude and identity as a team. 
Is donning the blue and gold at Notre Dame Stadium enough to get these guys fired up? Do they want to not only beat, but dismantle, a team trying to come into their house and pull an upset? Are they ready to take advantage of every oppor­tunity to improve and perform on Saturdays? 
Most importantly, do these guys just love to play football? 
Saturday’s game may not tell us much about Notre Dame’s offensive capabilities or defen­sive speed in relation to the nation’s best, but it could give us our best look at the intangi­bles the Irish will need to com­pete at that level. 
That’s what Saturday’s game means. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Decommitment strikes slow week 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
This week Notre Dame has already felt one effect of land­ing 20 verbal commitments before October — one of those commitments has decommit­ted. 
And this weekend, the Irish will feel another effect of all those commitments — very 
his main reason for this decision was that Notre Dame is far from his native Florida, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. 
“I think the big problem he is having right now is the dis­tance from home thing,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN.com-affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “He is just not sure he wants to go that far from home ... As the day gets closer and closer to happen­ing, that is when you sit there and wonder is this exactly what I want to do.” 
Prestwood, the No. 128 recruit in the nation accord­ing to the ESPN top-150, face with a nearly-filled recruiting class is that few recruits will visit this week­end. 
“There’s really nobody that is coming in,” Frank said. “There might be a couple big-name guys but I don’t know for sure they are coming in. It will be a very small group.” 
While Western Michigan may not be a glamorous opponent, Frank insisted the scheduling is not the reason recruits do not flock to cam­pus. 
“The only things I think recruits care about are, are you winning and where do I fit into your plans,” Frank said. “They want to play for a winner. Every major school in the country is playing a team like Western Michigan, and chances are they are playing four or five of them.” 
In fact, Frank said this game could leave as much of an impression on some recruits as a high-profile as a game against a traditional rival would. 
“To show a recruit, ‘Hey look, we’re getting this thing turned around — look how we pounded Western Michigan.’ That needs to be a statement that you can make too.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. E-mail Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
could still end up signing a scholarship with Notre Dame, but Frank said he does not expect him to do so. 
“I know Notre Dame has been trying to solidify the sit­uation, but it seems he is pretty set on visiting other schools,” Frank said. “I can jus tell you in the past that when kids start visiting other schools after committing, very rarely do they end up at Notre 
few, if any, visits from recruits to see the game 
against “The only things I think 
Western recruits care about are, Michigan. 
are you winning and
The de­
where do I ft into your
commitment came from plans. They want to play 
off ensive 
for a winner.” 
lineman Jordan Prestwood Mike Frank Tuesday, and Irish recruiting expert dame. It has happ ened occasionally, but not that often.” 
With Prestwood seemingly on his way out of the 2011 recruiti ng class, the Irish will look for another offensive line­men to fill the void. Most of the top 
recruits committed to other teams awhile ago, which will make the search difficult. 
“If there is anybody left. That is the issue, they have to go find somebody who is still out there,” Frank said. “There are just not a lot of names out there that [the Irish] are currently recruit­ing. They thought they had their spots already taken.” 
One name Frank mentioned is that of Nick Martin, the younger brother of Irish soph­omore tackle Zack Martin. Nick has committed to Kentucky already. 
The other dilemma the Irish 

Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Walk-on, kickoff 
Every time David Ruffer has attempted a field goal, he has made it, as he bucks all walk-on expectations 
where, after four years of playing attempts, and all five field goal 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
varsity golf in high school, he attempts. 
Sports Editor 
took up kicking field goals. After This season, he has made all a tryout, Ruffer walked-on to the 11 of his field goal attempts, 
When David Ruffer walked off Tribe football team. bringing his Irish career total to the practice fields Tuesday after-“I walked on there kicking,” he 16-of-16. Including his one field noon, two loyal autograph seek-said. “and it’s worked out ever goal as a Rambler, Ruffer has ers quickly approached him and since.” never missed a field goal attempt asked for his signature. in competition. Unsurprisingly, the senior walk-A field goal and a tryout By making kick after kick, on kicker signed away — some-Once he transferred to Notre Ruffer has raised the Notre thing he never thought he would Dame, Ruffer joined the Siegfried Dame standard for place kickers. be in a position to do. interhall football team, and after His 16 consecutive made field 
“It’s cool I guess,” Ruffer said a two games, in which he kicked goals bested Tausch’s school few seconds after putting the cap one field goal and a couple of record of 14, as well as the previ­back on the provided Sharpie. “I extra points, attempted to walk ous record for most consecutive never really thought of myself as on with the Irish. made field goals to open a somebody one day who would be “It was more of when I would career, which was previously 13. signing autographs, but I’ll take go out and practice [that I “I try not to think about [the what I can get. It’s neat to be in impressed people],” Ruffer said. streak],” he said. “Right now I’m that position.” The tryout process was three-zero-for-zero with Western 
Then again, Ruffer never really fold — one night with only tees Michigan coming up, and that is thought of him-and the then-how I approach every game.” self as some-special teams Ruffer’s 50-yard kick against body who coach Brian Pittsburgh tied the sixth-longest 
“I try not to think about
would be Notre Polian, one field goal in Notre Dame history. Dame’s starting [the streak]. Right now night with a The longest in school history was place kicker, snapper and kicked in 1976 by Dave Reeve, a
I’m zero-for-zero with 
having never holder and 53-yarder. Reeve should not 
Western Michigan 
missed a com-Polian, and a count his record safe as long as petitive field coming up, and that is final night in Ruffer is kicking, according to goal, even split-how I approach every front of then-special teams coach Mike Elston. ting the Irish coach “I see the kid kick 52 or 53 
game.” 
uprights from Charlie Weis. yarders every day,” Elston said. 50 yards away. “I was really “We were well in front of his In fact, the only David Ruffer nervous. These threshold [on the 50-yard field aspect of guys were goal] which is really about the 
senior kicker 
Ruffer’s current going to see 35-yard line.” life he could me for about have anticipat-15 or 20 min-‘Kickers are head-cases’ ed is the one aspect he initially utes, and if I don’t do really well, After the Pittsburgh game, in had denied him — being a stu-they will probably not want to which Ruffer also connected on dent at Notre Dame. see me again,” he said. “I just 32-and 31-yard field goals, he 
hoped I would perform to the attributed much of his success to Denial serves its purpose best of my ability. I would have junior holder Ryan Kavanagh, 
Ruffer’s father and grandfather obviously been upset with myself also a walk-on. graduated from Notre Dame, as if I came out here and didn’t do “Ryan Kavanagh is one of my did a few of his uncles and his the best that I know I could best friends and he will say older sister, but when Ruffer have.” something to keep me calm,” just make sure he’s just focused questions concerning the NFL received a response to his appli-Impress them he surely did, as Ruffer said. “But then from when on the kick.” are bound to come his way. cation, it was not the response Ruffer does not remember miss-the ball is snapped to when I kick Elston said he has seen the Ruffer qickly dismisses those anybody in the family had hoped ing a single kick in the three try-it I don’t know what happens.” “head-case” in kickers that thoughts. for. out sessions. Tuesday Kavanagh said he Kavanagh refers to, but in Ruffer “I don’t plan on playing football 
“I grew up loving Notre Dame. knows he needs to keep a close it is more of an even demeanor forever,” he said. “It’s probably I just wanted to be a student first The rest is history eye on Ruffer, if for no other rea-that Elston sees. going to end after this season of all,” Ruffer said. “I didn’t get Ruffer only took one kick in a son than the position he plays. “The kickers that I’ve been and I’ll need to get started on the in as a freshman, and that was game in 2008, a point-after “Kickers are head-cases,” around that are good athletes, next chapter of my life. probably the best thing that ever attempt that clanked off the Kavanagh said. “You have to that have a good demeanor, that “NFL stands for Not For Long, happened to me. It made me upright. In 2009, Ruffer took make sure they’re honed in on aren’t just specialists as kickers right? I would give it a shot, but realize you have to work really over place kicking duties after the ball. and have done other things in if there is something else that hard for the things you want.” incumbent Nick Tausch injured “I just give him a couple their athletic career, they typical-gives me more of a sense of ful-
Ruffer then turned his eyes to his foot, and Ruffer connected on reminders, take it easy, make ly tend to be more competitive fillment, I’ll do that instead.” 
William & Mary for a year, nine of his 10 point-after sure he takes a deep breath ... I and more even-keeled when they Amid all of his success on the take the field in pressure situa-field, the primary reason Ruffer tions,” Elston said. “Because they is at Notre Dame hasn’t changed are used to being in it.” — the same reason he wanted to 
Whatever reasoning Kavanagh come to the University in the first and Elston have for his success place. this season, Ruffer thinks he has “It’s been difficult, but I still found a groove simply because think of myself as a student he has relaxed, in all areas of his first,” he said. “That’s why I’m life. going through the interview 
“I still work really hard [in process right now, and just trying school], but before I was really a to get that Notre Dame degree.” perfectionist. Now I have grown Ruffer, an Economics major, up to a point where I realize interned in the accounting things won’t always go your department of Gurley Leep over way,” Ruffer said. “That little bit the summer, and has not decided of a laid-back attitude has helped what he will do after graduation, my focus a little bit.” nor has he ruled much out. 
At some point, things on the “I could go and be a house hus­football field won’t necessarily go band,” he said. “If my wife is the Ruffer’s way. He may miss a field bread winner, maybe I’ll just goal — believe it or not, he does take care of the kids.” miss them in practice. When the He may not know what the Saturday afternoon comes that future holds, but Ruffer did not one goes awry, Ruffer said he is expect any of what the present ready to deal with that setback. holds either, as he continues to 
“You can only learn from mis-move past his wildest dreams, takes,” he said. “You can’t make field goal after field goal. every single one, so it will hap-“I never thought this was going pen eventually. The trick will be to happen. Obviously I thought how I bounce back from that. It it’d be something cool, but never will happen, but I feel like I have to this magnitude. I can’t say it’s a pretty strong head, so I’ll be a dream come true, because I okay.” never really dreamed of this 
much.” 
‘Not For Long’ 
If Ruffer keeps making each Contact Douglas Farmer at and every one of his field goals, dfarmer1@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, October 14, 2010 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD T
Record: 3-3 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 
Irish Offense vs. Broncos Defense 
Notre Dame 


career record: 
174-60-2 
record at ND: 
732-3 
against WMU: 
3-1 




Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 
I can honestly say I never thought I would have to predict the final score of a match-up between the Irish and Western Michigan. 
Well, here I am, picking this game, and for the first time since Notre Dame’s season-opener I have not need­ed to deliberate about who I feel will win this game. 
Pure and simple, even without Kyle Rudolph, if the Irish don’t win by double digits Saturday I’ll be surprised. For once, Notre Dame unquestionably has the better athletes on the field. It is about time we get to see those athletes perform. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Western Michigan 13 

Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 
As I wrote in my column, I think this game will, above all, give us a look at some of this team's intangi­bles. That being said, I think we'll see the offense play with a swagger we haven't yet seen this season. The Irish will get off to a hot start, and while we haven't seen it to this point, I think Notre Dame will keep its foot on the gas. The Irish know they're the more talented team, so they should play with confidence. But they also know they aren't yet where they need to be, and that fact should help them remain focused for four quar­ters. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 41, Western Michigan 10 

Eric Prister 
Associate Sports Editor 
For the third week in a row, Notre Dame plays a team which it should beat. The Irish were certainly not crisp against either Boston College or Pittsburgh, but did enough to win both games. Western Michigan is the worst team of the three, and has shown at times a susceptibility against the pass. 
The Irish have far superior talent, and I think that this is the week that Dayne Crist and the Irish offense break out. The defense may struggle at times to defend against the pass, but in the end, victory should come easy. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45, Western Michgian 27 


Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Western Michigan 
Broncos
O HEAD 
Record: 2-3 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Sixth season at Western Michigan 
Broncos Offense vs. Irish Defense 



career record: 
68-45-1 
record at WMU: 
34-27 
against ND: 
0-0 




Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 
It appears as if the schedule has 
Western Michigan scored two finally lightened up for Notre Dame. 
touchdowns in its first 59 seconds The Irish battled hard to get to 3-3, 
last week against Ball State, but it and there’s no reason they shouldn’t 
will be Notre Dame getting off to the be 6-3 when Utah comes to town 
fast start in this one. The Irish Nov. 13. We’ve seen Notre Dame lose 
should have no trouble overcoming games like this before (hello, 
the 2-3 Broncos. The biggest ques-Syracuse, Navy, Connecticut and 
tion for the Irish is how the offense Navy again) but Brian Kelly has put 
will respond to the loss of junior tight an emphasis on not looking past this end Kyle Rudolph — and Western game. Notre Dame should be up big Michigan should be the perfect team early, and hopefully it’ll be able to to help Notre Dame find its answer. If fine-tune some of their offensive the offense can get over its second-strategies — specifically, the under-half struggles, the Irish will win by a used rushing attack — with the game pretty good margin; if not, they will already out of reach. simply win by a smaller margin. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 41, Western Michigan 16 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 33, Western Michigan 16 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, October 14, 2010 

You are currently vying for a spot on Team Reckless. What made you decide to attempt to join? 
Dayne had said a long time ago that I should join, but we never got around to it. We’re try­ing to set that up. 
Is it a very selective process? 
I’m not ever sure what the process is. We’ll see in the next couple of days what I have to do. 
How reckless do you think you’ll have to be? 
I think I’m pretty reckless. So I don’t think I’ll have to be too much more reckless than I already am. I think I’ll fit right in. 
Would it be an honor to be the first member of the Notre Dame defense on Team Reckless? 
Yeah, it’d be a great honor, first defensive player. It’d be nice. 
Broncos to become first ever MAC foe for Irish 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
The Mid-American Conference (MAC) has existed since 1947, but Western Michigan will be the first team from the MAC ever to play against Notre Dame. 
The Broncos (2-3) are cur­rently third in the West Division of the MAC, which includes teams from New York, Ohio, Illinois, Indiana and Michigan. 
“Up until this week it meant 

a lot,” Broncos coach Bill Cubit said in a press con fe re nce . “You’re the only one out there playing [Notre Dame]. And then you get the tape, and you hit reality. These guys are pretty good. This is a storied program.” 
Cubit said his team prepared with music and crowd noise to imitate Notre a team from a non-BCS confer­ence (the MAC champion goes to GMAC Bowl in Mobile, Ala., and the conference also sends teams to the uDrove Humanitarian Bowl in Boise, Idaho and the Little Caesars Bowl in Detroit). But Irish coach Brian Kelly said his team has no choice except to focus completely on the Broncos. 
“We are not that good to think about anybody else but our next opponent,” Kelly said in his Tuesday press confer­ence. “We can’t roll the ball 
“Up until this week it meant a lot. You’re the only one out there playing [Notre Dame] And then you get the tape, and you hit reality. These guys are pretty good. This is a storied progam.” 
Bill Cubit Broncos coach 
Dame Stadium. The Broncos’ average attendance is 17,350 fans, as opposed to Notre Dame’s 80,795. 
“That’s the best thing when you’re playing Notre Dame, because that’s what they’re going to hear,” Cubit said. “Hopefully they don’t hear the fight song too much. But that’s what they’re going to hear so they get used to it.” 
This will be Notre Dame’s first game this season against out and expect to win football games.” 
It is a com­mon practice for BCS teams to schedule MAC opponents for a guaran­teed win — but that is not the case Saturday, players said. 
“We are not 6-0 and the No. 1 team in the country,” sen­ior safety Harrison Smith said. “We are 
not at that place yet.” 
In fact, Kelly made sure the players wouldn’t overlook the Broncos. 
“He’s shown us statistical proof of teams that they have beaten or been very close to beating in games where I’m sure those teams went in over­looking a Western Michigan opponent,” junior quarterback Dayne Crist said. “They do some good things on offense, they do some good things on defense. It’s just like any other game.” 
For the Broncos, though, the game is a rare opportunity, Cubit said, that they plan to take advantage of. 
“There’s only one Notre Dame,” he said. “I know they take some criticism for that, but they built that. I give them all the credit in the world. 
“This is a college experience. It’s for the kids. Fifteen, 20 years from now, they can say they did this. I told them yes­terday: It’s one thing to play in the Stadium, it’s another thing to play well in the Stadium.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Thursday, October 14, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Eifert, Ragone prepared to fill in for Rudolph 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Since arriving at Notre Dame last December, Irish coach Brian Kelly has been preaching the importance of his “next man in” philosophy, which means that every player at every position needs to be ready to step in and be productive if called upon. 
Now it’s time to put that mantra to the test. 
With junior tight end Kyle Rudolph sidelined for the rest of the season, sophomore Tyler Eifert and senior Mike Ragone, as well as sophomore Jake Golic, will have to fill the void left by the preseason All-American. 
“No one player is going to stop what we do,” Kelly said at his Tuesday press conference. “It’s a ‘next man in’ philosophy for us. Tyler Eifert, Mike Ragone, Golic — those guys are going to have to step up and play the position for us at a high level. We think those guys can. We have a lot of confidence in them.” 
It may help that the hamstring injury had been nagging Rudolph all season, and offensive coordinator Charley Molnar said the tight ends and coaching staff had discussed a plan for what would happen if he had to miss any action. 
“We talked about this in summer camp when he was sore and we’ve been prepared for it,” Molnar said. “Everybody moves up a notch on the ladder, moves up a rung, and those guys have been ready for it. We don’t slow down a bit; we just keep on moving.” 
Eifert and Ragone are the two players most likely to see a substan­tial increase in playing time with Rudolph out. Of those two, Eifert has seen more playing time so far this season, but has only hauled in one pass for 17 yards against Michigan. Since then, he’s been hampered with a shoulder injury, but said that it was at a point where he thought he could play through the pain. 
“With the medicine and the heat of the game, you don’t feel it and you can’t let that bother you,” Eifert said. 
Ragone played sparingly in the first few games after a heat-related illness caused him to miss a signifi­cant portion of training camp. He caught his first pass of the season for 11 yards in last week’s win over Pittsburgh. 
“It always feels good to be on the field,” Ragone said. “It feels better to be on the field that it does to sit on the sideline.” 
He added that the lack of playing time early on wouldn’t affect his play going forward. 
“First couple of games I just didn’t get as many reps,” Ragone said. “But hey, when your opportunity’s called you just step up and you just do what you’ve got to do.” 
Both players stressed the need to not try and fill the shoes of Rudolph, one of the top tight ends in the coun­try, but rather to play within their abilities to help the team win. 
“Why would I want to be Kyle Rudolph?” Ragone said. “I want to be Michael Ragone, he wants to be Tyler Eifert, he’s Kyle Rudolph over there. We’re all different. I’m just gonna keep doing me, Kyle’s gonna keep doing him and we’re gonna win these ball games.” 
Part of Rudolph’s effectiveness could be attributed to his tight-knit relationship with starting quarter-back Dayne Crist. The two are close friends and seemed to have a strong rapport on the field. Crist, though, said that he would be just as com­fortable throwing to whoever takes Rudolph’s spot. 

“I have a ton of confidence in our other two tight ends, Mike Ragone and Tyler Eifert,” Crist said at his press conference Wednesday. “They are great players and doing some good things for us, as well. We will continue to bring those guys along and get better with those guys because that’s really our focus right now.” 
For their part, Efiert and Ragone both said they’re comfortable enough with the playbook to step in right now. 
“We know the offense,” Eifert said. “I’ve picked it up well and I’m confi­dent. I just need to go out and exe­cute.” 
While losing a player of Rudolph’s caliber is obviously a tough blow to Notre Dame’s chances going for­ward, Eifert and Ragone said they were excited about their chance to showcase their ability with more playing time. 
“The circumstance, [Rudolph] being down, is not great,” Ragone said. “I’m not smiling about it or anything, but now my opportunity is called and now it’s time to step up.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 14, 2010 







