the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Likins describes role in investigation 
Appointed reviewer says background qualifies him to evaluate Notre Dame’s findings on Sullivan’s death 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
When the University com­pletes its investigation into the death of junior Declan Sullivan, it will turn over its findings to Peter Likins, who will conduct an independent review. 
Likins, 74, is the former pres­ident of Lehigh University and the University of Arizona and has a doctorate in engineering mechanics. 
He told The Observer his experience with tragedy while serving as a university presi­dent and his background in engineering prepared him for his role in the investigation. 
“I think my background as an engineer helps me look at the facts in situations like this, ” he said. “[Engineers] want to know exactly what happened … That’s the way we’re disciplined.” 
Sullivan, a videographer for the football team, died on Oct. 27 after the hydraulic scissor lift from which he was filming football practice fell. 

Likins also dealt with tragedies during his 24 years as a university president. 
In 1986, Likins was the presi­dent of Lehigh when a female student, Jeanne Clery, was murdered in her dorm room. A federal law mandating that every university report the occurrences of crime on and near its campus was later named after Clery. 
He was also president of the University of Arizona when a student shot three professors to death in a classroom in 2002. 
“Those are two very dramatic examples, kind of book ends, 1986 and 2002, and a lot in between,” he said. “Because I have that kind of trauma in my own presidential experience, that helps me understand all the dimensions of what is going on now at Notre Dame.” 
Likins is not being paid to review the University’s findings. 
“[University President Fr. John Jenkins] called me and asked if I would help him, and as a fellow president I’m pleased to do that as best I can,” he said. 
Likins clarified that he does 
see LIKINS/page 5 



Ugandan student to discuss non-profits 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Francis Tuhaise knows from first-hand experience that non-profit organizations can make a difference in the lives of Ugandan citizens. 
Tuhaise, a student in the Kroc Institute’s Masters Program of Peace and Conflict, will speak Wednesday about the chal­lenges, justifications and 
opportunities for the non ­profit sector in Uganda. 
He is currently the co-direc­tor of the Kyembogo Farmer’s Association (KYEFA), a non­profit organization in Uganda that works with farmers in the region. He received a bachelor’s degree in adult and community education from Makerere University in Kampala, Uganda. Tuhaise also worked for the Ugandan 


Police to examine gameday arrest 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
St. Joseph County Police will conduct an internal investigation into the cir­cumstances surrounding the arrest of a Notre Dame student at an on-campus tailgate Saturday, accord­ing to a St. Joseph County Police press release issued Monday. 
St. Joseph County Police Sgt. Randy Kaps, a 19-year veteran of the department, arrested a 21 -year-old male student for public intoxication at approxi­mately 2 p.m. Saturday, the release stated. 
The release referenced a third-party video of the arrest, which a Notre Dame student posted on YouTube Saturday night. The video received more than 10,000 views before it was made private Monday afternoon. 
“Our department was made aware of the YouTube video early [Monday] morning depict­ing the arrest,” the press release stated. “Our administration has viewed the video. At this time, we are gathering further information relating to the circumstances leading to the arrest of the suspect in the video.” 
The release also stated the investigation would 
see ARRESTS/page 5 


government as a community development officer, mobiliz­ing communities for govern­ment-funded programs. 
Fr. George Muganyizi, a Holy Cross priest, founded KYEFA in Western Uganda in 1998. Tuhaise was involved in the initial planning stages of the organization and became co-director after two years. 
KYEFA works to improve farmers’ access to education and medical care by increas­ing their incomes, Tuhaise said. The organization focuses 
see UGANDA/page 4 


International Student Services promotes Education Week 
Services and Activities, said student population. about the film. Ten Thousand Villages, a
By REBECCA MORIARTY 

the week would promote an International Education Mike Mastrocinque, the non-profit organization that 
News Writer 

understanding of different Week events began Monday film’s associate producer, was helps craftsmen in third cultures. with a dessert reception and also in attendance to answer world countries, will sell 
The Office of International “I think this week is impor-screening of the film questions from the audience. crafts in the Hesburgh Student Services and tant to the Notre Dame com-“Streetball.” The film follows Other events include the Library Atrium from 10 a.m. Activities is presenting a munity because it allows stu-the stories of eight men as International Taste of South to 6 p.m. each day this week, series of events this week to dents to enjoy other coun-they journey from playing Bend, today from 7 to 8:30 Pencak said. promote International tries and cultures,” Pencak soccer on the streets of South p.m. in the LaFortune The Asian American Education Week at Notre said. Africa to playing in the Ballroom. Local restaurants Association of Notre Dame Dame. She also mentioned it is Homeless World Cup game. will showcase their interna-will present its annual Asian 
McKenna Pencak, assistant important for students to “It is a great story of people tional cuisine, and the event Allure show both Friday and director of communication learn about other cultures defying the odds and over-is free and open to all mem-Saturday in Washington Hall. and outreach for because Notre Dame has coming everything to accom-bers of the Notre Dame com-International Student such a large international plish a dream,” Pencak said munity. see EDUCATION/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC creates finance committee page 3  Music under the radar page 8  Women’s basketball routs Morehead State page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 16, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO  S YOUR FAVOR TE HARRY POTTER CHARACTER?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Chris Masoud Kristen Durbin Michael Todisco Emily Schrank Megan Golden 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Marissa Frobes 
Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Madeline Roe 
OFFBEAT 

Man urinates on police cruiser after DUI arrest 
JOHNSON CITY, Tenn.— Johnson City police said a man urinated on a police cruiser during a traffic stop for drunk driving. The Johnson City Press quotes the police report’s description of the inci­dent. It said police stopped 23 -year-old Darinel Lopez Cruz at about 3:30 a.m. on Sunday after they saw his Chevrolet Blazer weaving in and out of its lane. 
Police gave Cruz a field sobriety test and then arrested him. That’s when he urinated on the cruiser. 
Cruz was charged with DUI and indecent expo-
Alayna Calabro  Dennis Grabowski  Kris Kast  Dianna Bartone  Lauren Sullivan  John Mullaney  
junior  junior  senior  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  
Pangborn  Dillon  off-campus  Pangborn  Welsh Family  Dillon  

“Fred or  “Snivellus.”  “Dobby.”  “Snape, hands  “Ron Weasley.”  “Fred and  
George, either  down.”  George.”  
one.   I can’t tell  
the difference  
anyway.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Students celebrate on the field at Notre Dame Stadium after the Irish beat Utah, 28-3, on Saturday. The win improved the Irish to 5-5 and gave the team’s seniors a victory in their last home game. 
sure. He was jailed at the Washington County Detention Center on a $4,000 bond. It was not immediately clear whether he had obtained a lawyer. 
Man accused of tampering with public water system 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — A Florida man was jailed on charges of tampering with a public drinking water system. The FBI said Earl Davis climbed a fence on Nov. 1 at the city of Hollywood water treatment plant. Davis allegedly took off all his clothes and then turned off some power switches in a control room. 
Then, the FBI said Davis put on a hazardous materials suit and turned off more switches and a backup generator. That’s when plant personnel stopped him, halting a potentially hazardous sit­uation. 
Police said Davis gave the false name “Mike Myers” when he was arrested. 
Court records don ’t indicate why Davis may have done this. At a court hearing Friday, Davis was given until Monday to get an attor­ney and a bail hearing is set for Nov. 17. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The seminar “Water, Energy and Insatiable Human Demands” will take place today at 11 a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall Room 258. Bryan W. Karney, associate dean of applied science and engineer­ing at the University of Toronto, will present this installment in the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series. He will be discussing creative and responsive stewardship. 
The lecture “Latin American to the Left” will take place today at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Jorge Quiroga, former president of Bolivia, will speak. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The lecture “Research on Weak and Falling States: Making an Impact on Policy” will take place today at 4:15 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Pauline Baker, president of the Fund for Peace, will speak. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
International Taste of South Bend will take place today at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. Local inter­national restaurants will high­light their cuisines at this International Education Week event. 
The Education, Schooling and Society (ESS) minor will sponsor a screening of the film “The Lottery” today at 8 p.m. in Geddes Hall. The screening will be followed by a panel dis­cussion featuring some of Notre Dame’s experts on edu­cation. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



53 42 HIGH 5246 4651
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

35 35 LOW 3528 3340 






Tuesday, November 16, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SGA launches finance committee 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
In an effort to run Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) more effi­ciently and consistently, the Board created a Finance Committee to supplement its weekly meetings, student body president Rachael Chesley said. 
“The SGA Finance Committee was implemented in order to enhance clarity, transparency and consistency in regards to financial poli­cies, sponsorships and travel grants,” Chesley said. 
Clubs and organizations can apply for event sponsorships and travel grants if the group travels somewhere in repre­sentation of Saint Mary’s College, she said. 
In years past, these requests were brought before the entire board for review, but the Finance Committee will now handle grant applica­tions. 
does not agree with the deci­sion made by the smaller committee, they are able to appeal to the larger board. If the larger board votes that the appeal is valid, then the Finance Committee will meet again on the issue. 
“The Finance Committee has removed bias and increased consistency and efficiency,” Chesley said. 
Students interested in applying for their clubs or organizations can find forms in the SGA office on the sec­
ond floor of the Student Center or on the student government website, she said. They can also contact SGA with questions. 
“Sponsorship and Travel Grant forms must be turned in 15 business days before the event or day of travel, and forms must include nec­essary documentation for expenses listed on the form as well,” Chesley said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
Lecturer discusses Swedish saints 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saints were a democratic feature of Christian religion in medieval times, according to Anders Frojmark, senior lec­turer in History at Linnaeus University in Sweden. 
Frojmark discussed the role of saints and miracle tales dur­ing his lecture “The Voice of the People: Pilgrims’ Miracle Tales at Medieval Swedish Shrines” Monday in Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary’s. 
He spoke about the miracle tales of saints from Sweden, of which he said there are approximately 600. He talked about how these tales impact­ed the pilgrim, or peasant, society of the region during the medieval times. 
He narrowed his discussion down to the more significant tales of certain saints from Sweden, and talked about the role these saints played during the 15th century. 
“I will say, a saint was a good person, essentially a dead per­son, who lived in one way or another and who now lives with God.” Frojmark said. 
Peasants and other members of society during medieval times could use particular saints for guidance, he said. 
“You are free to choose. You decide which saint to turn to,” Frojmark said. “If saint No. 1 doesn’t help, then you are free to go further.” 
Turning to stories of saints also helped Swedish peasants connect with God, he said. 
“God lives everywhere and so do the saints who live with him,” Frojmark said. 
He also said saints are acces­sible to people seeking help through miracles. 
“Miracles count as an impor­tant role in the biography of saints. After their death … they are more accessible,” Frojmark said. “Now I can go visit [a saint]. I can stand some inches from her body and talk to her.” 
In order to keep the saints and their stories alive, those who had interacted with them would become storytellers and spread their stories throughout the region, he said. Frojmark equated these storytellers from medieval times who had expe­rienced the miracles with mod­ern television stars. 
“Those who have miraculous experiences became the object of a lot of attention,” he said. 
The significance of these sto­rytellers was their faith toward the saint they were discussing, Frojmark said. 
“Miracle stories were a prized offering that concerned the saint’s honor, not one’s own,” he said. 
According to Frojmark, these stories were important because they provided average citizens with role models. 
“You never walk alone. [Saints] are there and they are willing to help,” Frojmark said. “So no matter where you are, you can talk to them.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

“The newly established Finance Committee focuses on the sponsorships, travel grants and finances for SGA, so that SGA can focus on issues, initia­tives and the student body Board executives who meet separately from the larger board, but are still answerable to all members of SGA, she said. 
Chesley said the Finance 


during the big board meetings once a week,” Chesley said. 
Chesley said the committee allows for more to be accom­plished during SGA’s Wednesday evening meet­ings. 
“It has allowed SGA to focus meetings on cam­pus initiatives, such as the Co-Ex meal ticket recon­
“The Finance Committee has removed bias and increased consistency and effciency.” 
Rachael Chesley student body president Saint Mary’s College 
figuration, Students for South Bend Discount Program in tangent with Notre Dame and Holy Cross College, the SMC-SGA website, and the social place in Le Mans Hall basement currently being designed and planned,” Chesley said. 
Committee members include Committee is comprised of six members: treasurer, SGA president and vice president, chief of staff, secretary and campus club commissioner. 
“Alth ough this committee is small, it is 
held  account- 
able  through  
th e  F i n a n c e  

Committee Bylaws, SGA 

Constitution as well as the entire SGA board,” Chesley said. 
Chesley said she believes the new committee also helps remove unfairness in giving out funds. 
If a club or organization 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 16, 2010 
project assists children in buying basic materials for 
Uganda 
school, like pencils, paper and 

continued from page 1 
its resources on agriculture because it makes up more than 70 percent of the Ugandan economy. The pri­mary crops in Uganda are pineapples, coffee and tea. 
“We give [the farmers] improved seeds, we assist 
them in forming groups, and by forming groups, they are able to market their crops more effectively, ” Tuhaise said. 
He said these collective mar­keting groups are essential to building income. 
Tuhaise said the people of Uganda are generally more willing to embrace help from non-profit 
grown into a network of 36 associations serving 936 families in 64 village commu­nities. 
These fami ­lies live on iso­lated farms scattered throughout the Kyembogo 
r e g i o n  o f  
Uganda.  
K Y E FA  a l s o  

assists farmers by providing a tractor to share between sever-proper clothing. 
“In Uganda, we have free primary education, but these orphans do not have the basic [resources] they need to attend school. We help over 1,000 orphans,” he said. “We have 3,000 orphans [in total] but we cannot provide for them all. We select the ones 

“We give [the farmers] improved seeds, we assist them in forming groups, and by forming groups, they are able to market their crops more effectively.” 
Francis Tuhaise co-director Kyembogo Farmer’s Association 
organizations than govern­ment, because they trust the non-profits more. 
“The nonprofit sector pro­vides a very good opportunity for development in developing countries,” he said. “People have a lot of trust in them, and they are less bureaucrat­ic … They are very transpar­ent as opposed to govern ­ment, which is seen as very corrupt.” 
When KYEFA was first founded, 15 families were willing to invest. Now, it has 

“From experience, I have seen non-profts grow more with less compared to government. Something very small can create a very big impact.” 
Francis Tuhaise co-director Kyembogo Farmer’s Association 
al farms. Farmers may bor­row the tractor but must pay for their own gas. 
Tuhaise also said KYEFA 
offers support to farmers beyond the monetary realm. 
“Not all the support is just financially related,” he said. “We also offer technical advice.” 
The organization also works on two other projects: one focusing on water distribution and another on orphans. 
The water project helps to sufficiently hydrate families, their animals and their crops, Tuhaise said. The orphan with the most need.” 
Tuhaise said KYEFA’s goals for the future include increas­ing funding and expanding its network of associated organizations. 
“Over 36 groups are associated with us, [but] we want as many groups as we can associated with us,” he said. “We want each group to 
be independent, have a strategic plan, have its own programs, and sustain its own activities.” 
Uganda Farmers, Inc., a tax exempt, non-profit group, was formed in solidarity with KYEFA in 2007. Tuhaise said this organization, founded in Connecticut, is key to KYEFA’s programs. 
Founding KYEFA was not very difficult, Tuhaise said, because it had a wide support base from the beginning. He said the idea for KYEFA actu­
ally came from the farmers themselves. 
“Th e r e  w a s  
a l read y  t h e  
su pp o r t ,  [ t h e  
f a r m e r s ]  j us t  

needed some­one to organize and put the papers togeth­er,” he said. “The govern ­ment values non -profits in Uganda.” 
He said in Uganda, the non-profit sec­tor is able to 
grow faster and with fewer resources than governmental initiatives. 
“From experience, I have seen non-profits grow more with less compared to govern­ment. Something very small can create a very big impact,” he said. “You are near people, and you don’t need to spend 
on the big structure. This gives a lot hope.” 
Tu hais e  w i l l  s pe ak  
Wed ne s day  a t  8 p . m .  i n  
Geddes Hall.  

Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Education 
continued from page 1 
Pencak said students perform songs and dances from Asian cultures during the show, which has been well attended in previous years. 
All International Education Week events will benefit the Saint Joseph’s County Red Cross, which Pencak said is a new addition this year. The money will go toward The Red Cross’ aid for interna­tional refugees who resettle in South Bend from all over the world. 
Attendees at all events this week are encouraged to bring household items to support this cause, Pencak said. There will be collection boxes at all events. 
Pencak said this week is a good way for students to learn about other cultures while staying close to Notre Dame. 
“Students can get a touch of the world while still being in the United States,” she said. 
Contact Rebecca Moriarty at rmoriar2@nd.edu 

Tuesday, November 16, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
not explicitly asked him to come to campus, Likins said 
Likins 


continued from page 1 
not have a team to assist him and is not conducting the investigation. Rather, he will assess the internal investiga­tion conducted by the University. 
“I’m not going to conduct a 
parallel review,” he said. “If I have to say to them, ‘Gee, you ought to calculate blank, blank, blank,’ they will calculate [it].” 
While waiting 
f o r  the  
U ni ve r si ty  t o  
com p let e  it s  

investigation, Likins remains in Tucson, Ariz., and stays 
“I speak to the president [Fr. Jenkins] roughly once a week just to serve in whatever role he seeks from me.” 
Peter Likins University-appointed reviewer 
updated through weekly com­munication with Jenkins. 
“I speak to the president roughly once a week just to serve in whatever role he seeks from me,” Likins said. 
That role sometimes includes answering questions, 
but Likins said he mainly serves as a sounding board for Jenkins. 
“That is one of the things that a president needs in a crisis such as this, is some­one who under­stands the depth of his pain,” he said. “Someone he can talk to — not in a matter of reviewing the facts, that’s not 
the role that I play in my con­versations with the president 
— but just hearing his account of what this experience has meant to him and to Notre Dame.” 
Likins said it is not clear if he will review the University’s findings before or after they are released to the public. 
“That has not been explicit in our conversations, but what is clear is they are trying to keep me informed and they have given me anything I asked for,” he said, but added, “None of it is to draw judg­ment. It’s too soon for that.” 
Although the University has he expects to come to South Bend at some point to respond to questions regarding his review of the investigation. 
“If [Jenkins] is going to put forth in an open and transpar­ent way a review of this tragedy, part of that seems to me is to put me in the arena also so people can ask me 
questions,” he said. 
Likins said he had no previous affiliation with Notre Dame and has never visited the University. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said University officials sug­gested several individuals as candidates to 
conduct an outside review of the investigation, including Likins. 
“As a highly regarded uni­versity administrator, engi­neer and leader in college sports, he has ideal creden­tials for this assignment,” Brown said. “We very much 
“As a highly regarded appreciate him accepting our 
university 
request to take 
administrator, 
it on.” engineer and leader Likins was a member of the 
in college sports, he 
Knight
[Likins] has ideal 
Commission on credentials for this Intercollegiate Athletics from 
assignment.” 
2004 until his retirement and 
Dennis Brown 
served the University spokesman NCAA as a 


member of the 
Presidents ’ Commission. He later served as a member of the Executive Committee and chaired a presidential task force on the future of intercollegiate ath­letics, according to a press release. 
He earned his bachelor’s degree in civil engineering from Stanford University and his master’s degree in civil engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He also received a doctorate in engineering mechanics from Stanford. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
look at other evidence and accounts of the arrest. 
“The information to be con­sidered includes police reports from other police offi­cers at the scene, as well as other video obtained of the incident which may have been captured by security cameras on campus,” the release said. 
After the student’s arrest, police transported the stu­dent to the holding facility at Notre Dame Stadium before booking him into St. Joseph County Jail. He was released from jail on $150 bond and is scheduled to appear in court Dec. 2. 
In a statement Monday, University spokesman Dennis Brown praised past coopera­tion between Notre Dame Security Police and St. Joseph County Police on football weekends. 
“The University, local law enforcement agencies and our fans have worked in a spirit of cooperation the past two years to create an envi­ronment on football week­ends, that, by all accounts has been overwhelmingly positive,” Brown said. 
Brown said the University is aware of St. Joseph County Police’s investigation of the arrest Saturday. 
“We know that the incident that occurred Saturday is under review by the St. Joseph County Sheriff ’s Department in order to fully understand all of the circum­stances surrounding the con­frontation,” Brown said. “University leaders will close­ly monitor the conclusions of that review, but believe that the positive momentum of the last two seasons will not be derailed by a single incident.” 
Notre Dame Security Police declined to comment Monday about this and other gameday arrests. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, November 16, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A Cut Above Hermione 
Harry Potter mania is upon us. The comparison between South Dining Hall and Hogwarts will become much more apparent when swarms of stu­dents in gold and scarlet file in to drink Butter Beer and eat whatever 
Courtney Cox 
exactly it is that they eat in Harry Assistant Potter. Chocolate Scene Editor frogs perhaps? 
The stars of the film have been on a media rampage for the past week, beginning with the film’s London premiere and continu­ing on to the New York premiere this week. Of course the attention is amplified by the fact that this is the beginning of the end of an era for Harry Potter lovers around the world, but no topic has permeated the con­sciousness of the public as much as Emma Watson’s haircut. 
Emma Watson has portrayed Hermione Granger, the best friend of Harry Potter and Ron Weasley for the past 11 years. Of all Hermione’s char­acteristics (intelligence, a strict adherence to the rules, a borderline neurotic obsession with Hogwarts: A History), none of her physical attrib­utes stood out more than her bushy hair. 
It was a symbol that she was too serious and too wise to truly care about her looks. She wasn’t some bimbo like Lavender Brown; she was a smart, independent young woman. She gave hope to millions of girls that they would one day be able to grow out of that awkward stage and join the ranks of gorgeously smart women as Ms. Watson has. 
At the end of an era that has been so formative to millions of young adults, Emma has chosen to throw all caution to the wind and chop off her hair into a bold pixie cut. She had grown so familiar to Potter fans everywhere, and her long hair was something they could be sure of being perfectly in place. Despite the sloppy days her costars Daniel Radcliffe and Rupert Grint may be having (and let’s be honest, they seem to have too many to count), Emma Watson would always have her golden brown locks to compliment whatever stylish ensemble she sports. 
Now that Harry Potter is over, she seems to be an entirely different per­son from the lovable know-it-all. Emma Watson is no longer synony­mous with Hermione Granger. And I commend her for that. Many may not agree with me, but the choice to cut her hair was as smart as I’m sure it was liberating. While Hermione will always have that bushy brown hair, Watson will not. 
A haircut as drastic as hers can define a career. We have seen it with Natalie Portman in V for Vendetta, and we have seen it with Demi Moore in G.I. Jane. It is a powerful moment, but that is only if the moment is cho­sen wisely. In this state of transition, Watson has most certainly chosen wisely. She can be seen on the red carpet of the premiere looking demure as usual but totally different from the little girl on the screen. She is edgier and much cooler. 
As Emma Watson transitions to someone older and more bold than the character she portrays, perhaps it’s time for Harry Potter fans (myself included) to do the same. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
Bouncing right back 

This past Sunday was shaping up to be a memorable day. Coming off of the excitement of Senior Day, the football team from my dorm and home for the last four years, Dillon Hall, was play­
ing in the inter- 
hall football championship  Andy Ziccarelli  
game against  Moment of  
Sorin, and it  Inertia  
turned out to be  
a thrilling game.  

Unfortunately, Dillon lost 7-6 in over­time. And while it may have been dis­appointing for me as a member of the Dillon community, my heart went out to the players who had put so much time and effort into the team and had sacrificed so much to win a champi­onship. It isn’t possible to be any clos­er to winning a championship than those guys were. But in the end, they walked away empty handed, just like every other team in the league not named Sorin. It just seemed so unfair. 
That’s not to say that I haven’t expe­rienced disappointment of my own over my time here. There has been plenty. I have been completely ignored by girls that I’ve had crushes on, like I didn’t even exist. I once got a test back and felt satisfied with my grade, thinking it was out of 50 points. It wasn’t. It was out of 100. 
The football game at Michigan last year was so frustrating and upsetting that it made me feel physically ill. And while I fully realize how ridiculous that sounds, it is completely true. I had spent all summer before my jun­ior year counting down the days until football season started; with visions of BCS bowl games and top-10 finishes dancing in my head. And with one gut-wrenching last minute drive, all of those dreams came crashing down. I seriously considered, on a number of occasions, asking my buddy who was driving to pull over because I thought I was going to throw up. 
I also trained for four months my 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
freshman year to participate in the Bengal Bouts, only to get dominated in my first fight. I sacrificed a lot to train for the tournament: I gave up going out during training, I was eating meals unsuitable for an elementary school kid in an effort to cut weight and I was sleeping through class because I was so exhausted, not to mention the few hours every day I was spending in the gym. Just like that, in less than four minutes, I had lost and it was like none of that even mattered. So, knowing what I was up against, I trained my sophomore year and entered the tournament again. I then lost my first fight. Again. 
A natural human response in the face of repeated disappointment is one of apathy, an absence of emotion or enthusiasm. Apathy is a defense mechanism created by the subcon­scious to protect yourself from pain. Rationally, this makes sense. If you tell yourself that something doesn’t matter, there is no way that you could be hurt by that thing because, well, it doesn’t matter. 
A dangerous thing happens, though, when you become apathetic: not only do you shield yourself from disap­pointment, you also shield yourself from excitement. This is because there can’t be one without the other, the same way that there can’t be light without dark or good without evil. And by not allowing yourself to get hurt, you also don’t allow yourself to be truly happy. 
One man who knew this well was President Theodore Roosevelt. He is responsible for my favorite quote of all time, which I have on a poster in my bedroom. In a 1910 speech, he told listeners in Paris: “It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stum­bles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming … who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know vic­tory nor defeat.” 
Whether or not they have actually heard that quote before, Notre Dame students certainly act like they have. One of the best things about this place is the enthusiasm and passion that every person bring to campus, regard­less of whether it’s music, athletics, art, or anything else. Domers do not sit life out on the sidelines, and the buzz that everyone brings every day is one of my biggest sources of inspira­tion. 
It is an uncertain time for us sen­iors. There are a lifetime’s worth of hope and dreams behind each job or service or grad school application, and we have been met by a work force that, essentially, is telling us not to get our hopes up. A lot of us are sit­ting by the phone, waiting (and pray­ing) that the company that we inter­viewed with, or the medical school that we want to go to, will call us back. 
So even though I’ve been beaten down before, both mentally and physi­cally, I’m bouncing right back up. It’s the only way I know how to live, and I’m nothing if not stubborn, as my family can attest. So bring it on, real world. I’m ready. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He welcomes your adulation and veiled threats at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Eighty percent of successis showing up.” 
Woody Allen 
U.S. movie director and actor 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Art is anything you can get away with.” 
Andy Warhol
U.S. artist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 16, 2010 page 7 
U WIRE 

Facebook breakup study 
Students concerned their relationships are on the rocks and could end soon can gain some insight from a study of Facebook statuses. 
A new graphic circulating on the Internet charts the use of the phrases “breakup” and “broken up” in 
Facebook status updates to show what time of the year couples split. 
David McCandless, a London-based writer and designer who focuses on data journalism and information design, along with colleague Lee Bryon, created the 
Kaitlin Ek 
The Daily Nebraskan 

data visualization in 2008 by scraping 10,000 Facebook status updates for data. 
McCandless exhibited the graphic during a July TED (Technology, Entertainment, Design) Conference on data visualization. 
He described the graph to the audience, saying, “People clearing out for Spring Break, coming out of very bad weekends on Monday, being single over the summer. And then the lowest day of the year, of course: Christmas Day. Who would do that?” 
The graphic shows spikes in breakups after Valentine’s Day and in the two weeks before Christmas. 
There was also a significant spike on April Fool’s Day. 
Jessica Semin, a freshman pre-nursing student at 
U. Nebraska-Lincoln, said she thinks people may break up more frequently in the weeks before Christmas because of winter break for college stu­dents. 
“Maybe since people are with their friends, and not together,” she said. 
“During Christmas in college, students go back home and see old friends.” 
Jesse Barlean, a sophomore at UNL, had a differ­ent theory. 
“I was actually just talking about this with my friends,” he said. 
“We thought people break up over Christmas and stay broken up until Valentine’s Day because they don’t want to buy gifts.” 
He thought Spring Break breakups were also explainable. 
“No one wants a girlfriend for Spring Break,” he said. 
Semin said that the Monday breakup spikes seemed likely to her. 
“Mondays are never a good day for anyone. And it’s coming off a weekend,” she said, adding that sometimes couples have fights over weekend events. 
Barlean agreed, saying, “People have bad Mondays.” 
As for April Fool’s Day, Barlean doubts that more couples actually split up on that day. 
“On April Fool’s Day, maybe it’s just a joke,” he said. 
During his TED talk, McCandless uses his visuali­zation as an example of the wealth of data available to researchers on the Internet. 
“There’s a titanic amount of data out there,” he said. “It’s unprecedented.” 
This column first ran in the Nov. 15 edition of the Daily Nebraskan, the daily publication serving the University of Nebraska. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
This space? Right here? 
Yeah.  It’s boring. Fix it. 
Write in a Letter to the Editor. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
International life lessons: Dorms 101 

People say that abroad experiences are sup­posed to open up new perspectives and enlarge your world because of their differences. 
Well, they’re definitely right that studying abroad is different from South Bend, Indiana. Here in Perth, Australia, the weather is warm all semester, drinking is legal at 18, and people stare at you funny for eating peanut butter and jelly. Craziest of all, however, is that dorms are co-ed. 
For many people reading, this may shock and surprise you. “Impossible,” you might say. Contrary to popular belief, males and females in their late teens and early 20s can live together, in the same building, with little to no supervision. 
Despite what I expected when I first arrived, this living arrangement did not lead to unbridled debauchery, (more) binge drinking or rampant intercourse. 
While there were certain revelatory insights (hint: girls, in fact, do not poop Starbursts and rainbows), living with the fairer sex actually led to, gasp, closer friendships and more straightfor­ward relationships. Dorm life, as it were, actually benefited from having ideas coming from female perspectives. Dorm events, at least in my opinion, were more exciting, fresh and fun as a result, although the active role of legal drinking may have had a role to play to this extent. 
So Notre Dame, fresh off of a new experience, as my world has definitely been enlarged, I can only wonder if it matters. In the spirit of opening new perspectives, why not consider a co-ed dorm when it comes time to open up another residence for the young inhabitants of the University? And no worries, I won’t complain if you name it Keeler Hall. 
Brendan Keeler 
junior off campus Nov. 11 
You know who you are 

To Whom It May Concern: 
In 2001, Lance Bass starred in On the Line, a mis­erable film in which he searches endlessly for a girl he saw from afar. Let’s look past the obvious irony in that last sentence and focus on the bigger picture. 
I, too, am looking for a particular girl. I’ve resort­ed to The Observer to find you. Consider this an all-points bulletin to the girl that I’ve been stuck behind in the vegetable line four times in the last week. 
You know who you are, and your conduct is unac­ceptable. While others respect the dignity of stu­dents around them by moving swiftly through the vegetable line, you literally stand there with a spoon and pick out individual carrots. One by one, my patience simmers into a controlled rage as you take five minutes to fill a single bowl. 
As the line backs up, you single-handedly throw a wrench into the gears of hundreds of hungry people in North Dining Hall. 
Let this serve as a friendly reminder that your inability to use a spoon as it was intended has to change. I refuse to stand by as a silent witness to your rude, irrational, habitual crime against the Notre Dame population. As we move forward, hurry up. 
I didn’t want to have to resort to The Observer, but your brash disregard for common courtesy has left me no choice. 
In Notre Dame, 
James Kachadoorian 
junior Siegfried Hall Nov. 11 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, November 16, 2010 




By ROSS FINNEY 
Scene Writer 
When Weezer announced that its next release would be a collection of rarities, fans of the band saw a glimmer of hope. After a slew of inconsis­tent albums, from the radio-rock mediocrity of “Make Believe” to the puzzling-at-best “Raditude,” many questioned whether front man Rivers Cuomo had lost the ability, or simply the will, to recreate the power-pop glory of the first few Weezer albums. 
So, logically, scouring the archives for the best B-sides and unused track from the band’s 15 year tenure with the David Geffen Co. should be a return to form for the band. Right? 
Well, it’s not that simple. Cuomo described the album as the band’s 9th studio release and the logical follow-up to their latest original record and indie-debut, the somewhat average “Hurley.” It is apparent after a listen that “Death to False Metal” is surprisingly cohesive sounding for a collection of songs spanning over a decade. As it turns out, the band picked the songs and then brought them into the studio where they reworked and re-recorded them. 
In that sense the record never lives up to what it could be — that is, a unique glimpse into the evolution and development of the band. Instead, it oddly does seem like a follow-up to “Hurley,” and that’s not necessarily good news for fans looking for classic Weezer. 
The songs themselves are really varied in terms of quality. On these types of albums it is rare to find huge standout cuts — after all, they didn’t make it onto the records for a reason — but there are a couple very strong songs. 
Leading the album is “Turning up the Radio,” a good, if not somewhat standard, sort of tune. With light feel, good lyrics and a big hook for the chorus, the song epitomizes the good-not-great sort of song the band has become best known for in recent years. 
“Everyone” is an interesting experiment for the band. Though fans of Weezer’s poppier side may not like it, the song is good. By far the most hard-rocking track on the album, Cuomo seems to be trying for a Nirvana-grunge sound, which the band pulls off to some success. 
“I’m a Robot” is an upbeat, extremely wry take on middle-class living that, in spite of its catchi­ness and interesting premise, ultimately fails to deliver. Though ambitious conceptually, the lyrics are mostly unsatisfying and kind of goofy, but not in the way that makes a lot of Weezer’s songs endearing. 
The standout track is “Trampoline.” The song is straightforward power-pop reminiscent of the “Blue” or “Green” albums and the lyrics get right at the heart of the awkward angst that Weezer is really about. The song has “fan favorite” written all over it, and really stands as one of the better Weezer songs to come out lately, not just from this album. 
The rest of the tracks are largely interchange­able. With mostly dull lyrics and plenty of catchy but not classic riffs, they might be aptly described as filler, except they were specially picked and reworked for this collection. Like the album as a whole, they aren’t bad, they’re just not special. 
‘Death to False Metal’ Weezer Label: David Geffen Company Best Tracks: “Everyone,” “Trampoline” 

Contact Ross Finney at trfnney@gmail.com 



BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, November 16, 2010 page 9 

wide drug test, threatening expulsion to whoever that alcohol is legal but marijuana is not” in a satiri-By TROY MATHEW fails. To solve this problem and save Henry’s bright cal and farcical way. The hilariously hyperbolical Scene Writer future, the duo utilizes the aptly named drug dealer anti-marijuana educational film the students are Stephen Susco, a 1995 Notre Dame graduate and Psycho Ed (Adrian Brody) in a plot to get the entire forced to watch in detention bolsters this viewpoint. co-writer and co-producer of “High School,” credits school high. Susco’s current projects include a prequel to “High Notre Dame for helping him develop his interest in The story is highly entertaining from start to finish School,” chronicling the back-story of Psycho Ed. filmmaking. Susco’s freshman film class piqued his and possesses a surprising amount of suspense, due Susco is also working on an action movie starring interest in the field. Susco, who lived in Pangborn largely to the volatility of Brody’s character. His wild­tween-favorite Taylor Lautner. Although Susco could-Hall “before [the dorm] was neutered,” wrote several eyed threats and nonsensical mutterings generate n’t divulge any details about the movie yet, it’s prom-films while at Notre Dame. uneasy laughs in nearly every scene in which he ised to be awesome. “High School” hits theaters this Also highly significant for Susco was his experience appears. His interactions with Sean Marquette are spring, and comes highly recommended. with “Rudy,” which was filmed during his time as a particularly hilarious, and were largely the result of student. Susco auditioned for the film, and was run­improv, according to Susco. ner-up for a part as one of Rudy’s brothers. Although The majority of the humor was raunchy and cer­‘High School’ a role in the film did not pan out for Susco, observing tainly not for everyone, but most will laugh consis­the production of the film gave Susco a valuable tently throughout the film. Most of the comedy and glimpse into the industry. the situations the pair of friends find themselves in Susco has also written screenplays for horror are hysterical. Recurring jokes, such as Henry’s nau-Director: John Stalberg movies “The Grudge” and “The Grudge 2,” both of sea in response to Psycho Ed’s terrifying threats, are Starring: Adrien Brody, Michael Chiklis, Colin which enjoyed huge box office success. A screenplay, big hits throughout the film. as described by Susco, is the film “in its rawest form” A cross between “Pineapple Express” and Hanks and undergoes constant editing and changes through­“Superbad,” “High School” features a dangerous and out the production process. highly entertaining mission mixed with plenty of Writing “High School” provided Susco a respite raunchy, gross-out humor and high school drama. from the dark, serious horror genre. The comedy The dynamic between Henry and his childhood centers on high school valedictorian Henry Burke friend, Travis, is one of the highlights of the film. The (Matt Bush), who is reunited with his childhood best film’s portrayal of ex-“besties” on divergent life paths friend Travis Breaux (Sean Marquette) when the pair is really well done. It’s easy to sympathize with both are involved in a parking lot accident. characters, and the ending is really satisfying. Straight-laced Henry later takes his first hit of mar-Susco said this film has been described as a “stoner ijuana, at the urging of his former best friend, and movie,” but he also sees it as a “coming of age story hilarity ensues. The next day, the overzealous high about two friends.” Susco also said in an interview school principal (Michael Chiklis) mandates a school-with The Observer that the film deals with the “fact Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu  
less-than-appealing part of the band’s By CHRIS COLLUM new sound. The lyrics sometimes feel Scene Writer hollow and insincere when juxtaposed Matt & Kim, a Brooklyn-based duo with the bright musical approach. composed of Matt Johnson on vocals However, there is still room for blissful and keyboards and Kim Schifino on moments amid Johnson’s more down-drums and vocals, has been making cast ruminations, such as in the album’s catchy, lo-fi synth-punk for more than penultimate track “Silver Tiles,” which five years. However, very few had heard was actually the first song the band ever of the band prior to its hit song wrote as a duo. It had never been fea­“Daylight” being featured in a Bacardi tured on an album before now. commercial last summer. The final aspect of Matt & Kim’s new­“Daylight” was the lead single from found expansive sheen is that Johnson’s “Grand,” which was the band’s second vocals have changed slightly from their and breakthrough album. “Grand” saw previously nasal and jittery qualities. He the duo receive critical praise for tight-sounds more confident and much more ening its “do it yourself” sound without willing to go for the soaring melody as compromising its fast-paced raw opposed to more rapid-fire wordplay. nature. One would never have thought it likely On “Sidewalks,” the band’s latest given their previous work, but Johnson album released on Nov. 2, Matt & Kim has developed a genuinely good singing hired semi-legendary hip-hop and indie voice, not just an interesting one. That producer, recorder and studio jugger­being said, however, he still retains naut Ben Allen, whose past credits some of his old, more raw singing style include Gnarls Barkley’s “St. Elsewhere” on songs such as “Ice Melts,” the and Animal Collective’s “Merriweather album’s closing track. Post Pavilion,” among other critically-With the help of Ben Allen’s studio acclaimed albums. While it might be finesse, Matt & Kim have done some unfair to Johnson and Schifino to credit major reinventing on “Sidewalks” with Allen with singlehandedly broadening almost entirely positive results. The and improving upon the duo’s blitz-like the expense of far Johnson’s lyrics band manages to create a diverse set of style, Allen’s influence can certainly be superior songs is not ‘Sidewalks’ ech
o this more open 10 songs, something it previously had heard in songs such as “Cameras,” the a bad trade-off at all. sound. Matt & Kim’s not really done. On “Grand” all the album’s first single, which features a Because of this, songs previously songs seemed to sound the same start-horn section, hip-hop samples and “Sidewalks” also has have been colorful ing around track six; on “Sidewalks,” Label: Fader murky electronic noises — three things a “bigger” feel to it — collages of life in each song has its own distinctive sound.Best Tracks: “Cameras,” one would not expect to hear on a Matt a stark contrast with Brooklyn in one’s For a group that made its name most­& Kim record. some of their previ­“Block for Block,” “Silver Tiles” 20s. “Sidewalks” sees ly through simplistic, fast-paced songs, Beyond diversifying the band’s sound, ous material that Johnson adopting a hiring a new producer and evolving sty-Allen manages to amplify the best sounds as if it may more pensive, con­listically was risky. Matt & Kim, howev­aspects of Matt & Kim’s music: well have been templative mood at er, pull the whole thing off with ease, Johnson’s huge vocal hooks and bouncy recorded in a 10-by­times, such as in the and come out sounding much better synthesizer riffs, combined with 10 foot bedroom. a f o r e m e n t i o n e d than before. Old fans should be pleased, Schifino’s rapid-fire percussive style. Mid-tempo slow-“Good for Great.” “So and plenty of new fans should come Album opener “Block for Block” is clas­burner “Good for many books that I around as well. “Sidewalks” is Matt & sic Matt & Kim — but with a more Great” showcases this perfectly. That didn’t read / But there’s so much air I Kim’s best album to date and a step in a sophisticated feel. song combines one of Johnson’s signa­chose to breathe / How about the colors new, more diverse direction for the This does result in the duo losing some ture floating keyboard riffs with a huge that I’ve seen? / So I’ll leave these pages band. of the “amateur charm” that might have string sample, reverb-drenched vocals in the trees,” Johnson sings in the cho­previously been a large part of their and Schifino’s best work behind the rus. Contact Chris Collum at appeal, but losing some of its charm at drums yet. This new lyrical approach is the one ccollum@nd.edu 
 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

Tuesday, November 16, 2010 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS page 10 
NFL 

Panthers’ Clausen day-to-day with concussion 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Just when rookie Jimmy Clausen and the Carolina offense finally showed some spark, albeit in another loss, the Panthers were hit with more bad news as Clausen’s status for next week is uncertain because of a con­cussion. 
The Panthers were seething Monday over the play that may have gotten Clausen hurt. They claim a couple of Tampa Bay players recklessly dove into the pile as Clausen was stuffed shy of the goal line on fourth down on Carolina’s final offensive play Sunday in the Buccaneers’ 31-16 win. 
Receiver Steve Smith said Aqib Talib and Sean Jones “went head first into Jimmy.” Replays showed Talib appeared to hit Clausen with a helmet-to­helmet hit. Smith then shoved Talib and was given a 15-yard penalty. 
“Despite what people might think, actually I am a team player and I’ll do it again, and I’ll do it 10 out of 10 times, 100 out of 100 times,” Smith said of the penalty. “Guys going in there, he goes head first in there, so I’m going to follow.” 
Coach John Fox declined to comment Monday for fear of being fined, but did say they would send in a tape of the play to the league office. Fox also said he wasn’t certain Clausen sustained the concussion on that play, but believed that’s when it happened. 
Fox said Clausen, who com­pleted 16 of 29 passes for 191 yards, no touchdowns and no turnovers, didn’t show signs of a concussion until after the game. Clausen attended meet­ings Monday but was not made available to reporters. 
“I talked to him after the game and he had a little headache,” backup quarter­back Tony Pike said. “He said he was trying to watch tape (Sunday night) and the headache got a little worse.” 
It could leave Carolina (1-8) in an even bigger predicament than a week earlier, when Clausen was promoted to starter after Matt Moore’s sea­son-ending right shoulder injury. 
If Clausen can’t go Sunday against Baltimore, and Fox would only says he’s “day to day,” the Panthers would turn the rookie Pike, a sixth-round pick who has thrown 12 passes this season. 
“Always got to be ready,” Pike said. 
Behind Pike is another rook­ie, Armanti Edwards, who played quarterback at Appalachian State but was con­verted to receiver when he was drafted in the third round. He didn’t take snaps at QB for Carolina until last week when he ran the scout team. 
The Panthers signed Brian St. Pierre, who has thrown five passes in his NFL career, to the practice squad on Friday. 
Fox wouldn’t say if they’d try to sign another QB. 
“We had Brian St. Pierre around last week, just to have a third quarterback in the build­ing,” Fox said. “I think it was helpful as far as getting accli­mated to our offense, but we’ll just assess that day to day.” 
It’s been that kind of season for the Panthers, who are now tied for Buffalo for the worst record in the league. 
Clausen’s injury spoiled his best performance in four starts, all losses. While the Panthers scored just one touchdown — they have nine this season — they moved the ball better. The second round pick from Notre Dame avoided major mistakes and looked more poised in the pocket. 
“I thought he made some good third down decisions,” Fox said of Clausen. “We had some mishaps early in the first half where we were maybe not quite as clean as we needed to be and had to use some time­outs. But all in all I thought he performed pretty well.” 
Clausen was also helped by fourth-string running back Mike Goodson, who rushed for 100 yards in Carolina’s best performance on the ground this season amid numerous injuries. 
Still, it wasn’t enough to lead Carolina to its second win, with a leaky defense to blame. The Panthers gave up 421 yards, including 186 on the ground. 
Two weeks ago, the Panthers were ranked fourth in the league in total defense. They’ve dropped to 14th after allowing 829 yards in two weeks to New Orleans and Tampa Bay. 
“The opponent has a little something to do with it,” Fox said. 
Now the Panthers have uncertainty again at QB — and at receiver and the offensive line. Left guard Travelle Wharton was knocked out of Sunday’s game with what Fox called turf toe and was in a protective boot Monday. 

Wharton said he had “no idea” if he’d be able to play Sunday. 
No. 3 receiver Brandon LaFell also left with a concus­sion. 
But despite all the losses and injuries, the Panthers claim they haven’t quit. And Smith’s aggressive reaction on the final offensive play Sunday may prove that. 
“I don’t see really a way I can comment on that, other than it shows a lot about Steve to take care of his teammate,” Fox said. 
NFL 

Redskins, McNabb agree on five-year, $78 million deal 
he was a rookie. benched during a game in his The confusion put the “I think coach and myself said 
Associated Press 

But the Redskins have decid-career. Grossman lost a fumble Redskins in the spotlight during that Donovan’s going to be here 
LANDOVER, Md. — Never ed the six-time Pro Bowler is a that was returned for a touch-their bye week. It had always from the beginning and mind whether Donovan McNabb centerpiece in coach Mike down, and Washington lost 37-been assumed the Redskins Donovan has been real clear in can go for two minutes. The Shanahan’s rebuilding project, 25 to drop to 4-4. would sign McNabb to an exten-his intent of being a Redskin. So Washington Redskins have even as both endure growing Pulling McNabb was baffling sion before his contract expired I think it just puts an exclama­decided they’d like to have him pains with the Redskins’ new enough, but Shanahan com-at the end of the season, but tion point on it.” around for another five years. offense. pounded the matter by offering had Shanahan lost confidence Still, McNabb’s adjustment to 
And never mind whether he The deal came with impecca-varying explanations over mul-in him? And would McNabb his first new offense in more was worth a pair of draft picks. ble timing. It was announced a tiple days. First, Shanahan said even want to stay? than a decade has been a big-The Redskins figure he’s worth few hours before McNabb and he felt Grossman was more The answers, apparently, are ger challenge than expected. He $40 million in guaranteed the Redskins faced the quarter-knowledgeable in the team’s no and yes. McNabb’s agent, was completing 57.4 percent of money. back’s longtime team, the two-minute offense. Then the Fletcher Smith, said the bench-his passes with seven touch-
Two weeks after they caused Philadelphia Eagles, in the coach said McNabb lacked the ing had no effect on the negoti-downs and eight interceptions an uproar by benching him in Monday night game. It also “cardiovascular endurance” to ations, which had been ongoing and a rating of only 76.0 enter-the final 1:50 of a loss to the came before McNabb was able run a fast-paced drill because to some degree since McNabb ing Monday’s game. That said, Detroit Lions, the Redskins on to take his first snap following of nagging hamstring injuries. was acquired from the Eagles he’s been working behind a Monday signed McNabb to a the bizarre Halloween events in Offensive coordinator Kyle for a pair of draft picks in April. sub-par offensive line — he was five-year contract extension Detroit. Shanahan said McNabb had “Once the regular season sacked 22 times through the worth $78 million — giving top-With the Redskins trailing by been tipped in advance that the started, we really were aiming first eight games — and has grade money to a quarterback six, Shanahan yanked McNabb team might go with Grossman; toward the bye week, and it only two reliable wideouts in who is about to turn 34 and is for Rex Grossman, only the sec-McNabb claimed he didn’t hear came together,” Redskins gen-Santana Moss and Anthony having his worst season since ond time McNabb has been that. eral manager Bruce Allen said. Armstrong. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 

CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR SALE 
House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq ft home. 4BR 3.5BA. Furniture ?, fully redone. $347,500 574-232-2211 on web at 610.sbrp.us 
———————————————— 

———————————————— ————————————————
FOR RENT 
Housing available for next school year. 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Close to campus. Good rates and good landlord. Leasing now. 574-276­2333 
———————————————— 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. 
———————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. 
———————————————— 
If you can dream it, you can do it. -Walt Disney 
A true friend laughs at your stories even when they’re not so good, and sympathizes with your troubles even when they’re not so bad. -Proverb 
A friend is one who knows us, but loves us anyway. -Jerome Cummings 
Walking with a friend in the dark is better than walking alone in the light. -Helen Keller 
———————————————— 
The question isn't who is going to let me; it's who is going to stop me. -Ayn Rand 
Don't let what you can't do stop you from doing what you can do. -John Wooden 
You can never cross the ocean unless you have the courage to lose sight of the shore. -Christopher Columbus 
We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, therefore, is not an act but a habit. -Aristotle ———————————————— 

Tuesday, November 16, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENTS page 11 page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 16, 2010 

MLB 

Posey, Feliz named leagues’ top rookies 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — San Francisco Giants catcher Buster Posey and Texas Rangers closer Neftali Feliz wound up together on the winning side Monday when they were voted the Rookies of the Year. 
Earlier this month, Posey sin­gled off Feliz as the Giants beat Texas in the clinching Game 5 of the World Series. 
“It’s hard to believe it’s been two weeks,” Posey said. 
Posey hit several key home runs in the stretch, then helped the Giants win the crown for the first time since 1954. He easily outdistanced Atlanta outfielder Jason Heyward for the National League award. 
Feliz, the rocket-armed righty who set a rookie record with 40 saves as Texas reached its first World Series, finished far ahead of Detroit center fielder Austin Jackson for the AL honor. 
“I hope it’s not a fluke. I hope I have a better season next year,” the 22-year-old Dominican reliever said through a translator on a conference call. 
Promoted from Triple-A on May 29, Posey quickly adjusted to the big leagues — both at the plate and behind it. 
The 23-year-old Posey hit .305 with 18 home runs and 67 RBIs. He homered eight times after Sept. 1 in leading the Giants to the NL West title, and his homer on the final day of the regular season helped them clinch the division. 
Posey was picked first on 20 of 32 ballots in voting by mem­bers of the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. Voting was done by two members of the BBWAA in every league city after the regular season, with each person listing three play­ers. 
Posey was left off the ballot by Yasushi Kikuchi of Kyodo News from the Los Angeles-Anaheim chapter. Kikuchi chose Florida first baseman Gaby Sanchez first, Heyward second and St. Louis pitcher Jaime Garcia third. 
“I think Rookie of the Year is for the rookie player who plays better than any other through the entire season. From this standpoint, Gaby and Jason pro­duced more hits and played more games than Posey. Also, Jaime Garcia pitched as a starter through the entire sea­son,” Kikuchi said in an e-mail to The Associated Press. 
Born Gerald Dempsey Posey III, the nickname “Buster” runs in his family. He was driving with his wife to the Florida Keys when he got word that he had won. He acknowledged he was wondering about the outcome. 
“I think I’d be lying to you if I said I didn’t think about it,” he said on a conference call. 
Feliz got 20 first-place votes and was listed on all 28 ballots. He drew seven seconds and one third. He was at Rangers Ballpark, where the World Series ended, when he found out he’d won. 
The NL Cy Young will be the next major award to be announced. Philadelphia ace Roy Halladay is considered the front-runner for Tuesday. 
Posey hit third and even cleanup for the Giants as they brought the championship to San Francisco for the first time. He was equally praised for han­dling a pitching staff that seemed to get better throughout the postseason. 
“How rare and amazing it is to have a rookie catcher lead a team to a World Series champi­onship,” Giants managing part­ner Bill Neukom said. 
In fact, the last rookie catcher to play for a World Series win­ner was in 1966 with Baltimore’s Andy Etchebarren. 
Posey became the first Rookie of the Year winner to become a World Series champion in the same season since Boston’s Dustin Pedroia in 2007. The last NL player to do it was Florida’s Dontrelle Willis in 2003. 
A star at Florida State, the Georgia native went to see the Seminoles play Clemson last weekend. Several football fans in the crowd recognized one of baseball’s fastest-rising stars. 
“That was nice,” he said. 
Posey played briefly at first base when he was called up and moved to catcher when the Giants traded Bengie Molina to Texas. He had a 21-game hitting streak in July. 
Posey finished with 129 points in the rookie voting. Heyward, who hit .277 with 18 home runs and 72 RBIs, got nine first-place ballots and 107 points. 
Garcia drew one first-place vote and 24 points. Sanchez got the other two first-place votes and had 18 points. 



Tuesday, November 16, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NFL 

Colts prepare for tough stretch 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Colts never expected this November to be easy, not with road games against the Eagles and Patriots and a visit from the Chargers. 
And that was before a rash of injuries. The next two weeks, starting with Sunday’s game at New England followed by San Diego, may be more of a survival test. 
“They (the Pats) are a good team, arguably playing as well as anybody and it’s a tough place to play,” 

Caldwell said “I haven’t seen the Dallas. Monday. “It’s B u t
Patriots at all, I 
always been a between now 
haven’t studied them 
huge rivalry and then, the because both at all, but it sounds Colts need to 
teams have been like they’re a typical survive two 
playing well key games 
Patriots team. At the 
whenever we’ve that could met, so there’s a same time, I think we help clear up 
lot at stake.” really need to focus on the AFC play-
Especially in off picture. 
getting the Colts
this wild and The Patriots wacky season. better.” (7-2) are tied 
Eleven of the for the AFC 16 AFC teams East lead 
Peyton Manning 
are within one with the New 
Colts quarterback 
game of first York Jets, and 
answer about injuries. “Guys have been working hard and rehabbing diligently. Hopefully, it will be like last week where we got a couple of guys back, and, hopefully, we’ll get a couple of more back this week.” 
The good news in Indianapolis is that the health concerns may finally be end­ing. 
Last week, team president Bill Polian told his radio show listeners he expects most of the Colts to be back on the field for the Dec. 5 game against 
place, and, strangely, the depleted Colts are the only AFC team with sole possession of a division lead in the con­ference. 
The question: How long can they keep it? 
Indianapolis (6-3) opened Sunday’s game against Cincinnati without any of its three opening-day starters at linebacker, without safeties Bob Sanders and Melvin Bullitt, without tight ends Dallas Clark and Brody Eldridge, without receivers Austin Collie and Anthony Gonzalez and without running backs Joseph Addai and Mike Hart. 
Caldwell was optimistic some of those guys might return for this weekend’s tus­sle with the Patriots. 
“I wish I could tell you who they are,” Caldwell said, giv­ing his standard Monday the Chargers 


(4-5) are sud­denly one game behind AFC West co-leaders Oakland and Kansas City. 
Not that the Colts are paying attention to other teams given their own issues. 
“Every game is about surviv­ing,” Pro Bowl receiver Reggie Wayne said after Sunday’s 23­17 victory earned them a day off Monday. “Every game is going to be tough, no matter who we have out there, if we have the original starter or the new starters. They are going to look at it just like it’s the plan old Colts out there, no matter who is out there. They are trying to survive also.” 
It likely means, however, that the Colts will face their two biggest nemeses short­handed. 
New England won six straight over the Colts, includ­ing two playoff games, between the 2001 and 2004 seasons. Four of those games were played in Foxborough, Mass. Since then, the Colts have had the upper hand, win­ning five of the last six includ­ing the AFC Championship game following the 2006 sea­son. 
San Diego, meanwhile, has won four of the last five against Indy, including back-to-back playoff games after the 2007 and 2008 seasons. 
So the Colts know what it will take. 
“I’ve always kind of said, ‘Hey, we’ve got to focus on us and getting us better,’“ Peyton Manning said. “I haven’t seen the Patriots at all, I haven’t studied them at all, but it sounds like they’re a typical Patriots team. At the same time, I think we really have to focus on getting the Colts bet­ter.” 
The top priority will be scor­ing touchdowns. 
Twice on Sunday, the Colts settled for short field goals after driving into the red zone. The previous week, they also settled for a 37-yard field goal in a 26 -24 loss at Philadelphia. 
That’s not typical Colts ball, and against a Patriots squad that hung 39 points on the Steelers’ vaunted defense, well, Manning and Caldwell know field goals won’t cut it this week. 
Sure, some will contend Indy’s red-zone struggles are a direct result of the missing pieces, but that’s not how the Colts see it. 
They still have to win these games and put themselves in position to control their own playoff fate during the sea­son’s final month — regardless of who’s playing and who’s not. 
“Anything can happen. Everybody’s got a shot,” Caldwell said. “I think whoev­er can get hot and get on a roll can get control of this thing. But the way this thing is going, it could up to Week 14, 15, 16 before everything is solidified.” 
NFL 
Hester provides spark for Chicago’s offense 

Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. — Once again, the Chicago Bears are getting many happy returns from Devin Hester. 
The specialist who set records running back kickoffs and punts in his first two sea­sons seems reborn on special teams after struggling the past few years while trying to adapt to a bigger role on offense. 
“Devin has it going right now,” coach Lovie Smith said. “Guys are doing a great job blocking for him. He’s feeling it, of course.” 
Hester did a little bit of every­thing against Minnesota on Sunday. 
He handled kickoffs for the first time this season and wound up returning two for a total of 100 yards. He was effective again on punts, run­ning one back 42 yards. Throw in a 19-yard touchdown catch, and it was a good afternoon all around for Hester. 
The 27-13 win over the Vikings put the Bears (6-3) in a tie with Green Bay for the NFC North lead with a tougher schedule looming. 
Five of the Bears’ six wins are against teams with three 
AP Bears wide receiver Devin Hester pulls in a touchdown during the frst half of Chicago’s 27-13 win over Minnesota Sunday. 
wins or less at the moment, including two with 2-7 records (Detroit, Dallas) and a pair that are 1-8 (Carolina, Buffalo). The exception was Green Bay in September. 
Now, they’re in a short week with Thursday’s game at Miami, although Chicago might be catching the Dolphins at a good time. Tyler Thigpen most likely will start at quarterback after Chad Pennington suffered a season-ending shoulder injury and Chad Henne injured his knee in Sunday’s win over Tennessee. Coach Tony Sparano said Henne might be available, but the Dolphins signed veteran Patrick Ramsey on Monday. 
For the Bears, there are few breaks after this week, with home games looming against Philadelphia, New England and the New York Jets along with a trip at Green Bay. 
It would help if Hester keeps this up. 
No one has more combined punt and kickoff returns for touchdowns than Hester, who shares the league’s career record with Brian Mitchell with 
13. They are also tied for sec­ond with nine punt returns for TDs, one behind Eric Metcalf, but it was a long time between big plays. 
He went two seasons without returning a punt or kickoff for a touchdown and was taken off kickoff returns last year. The TD drought ended when he ran a punt back 62 yards in a win over Green Bay in September. He had a 50-yard return against Carolina in October and returned another punt 89 yards for a touchdown against Seattle the following week. 
Now, he and Dez Bryant are tied for the league lead with two punt returns for touch­downs. His five returns for 20 or more yards are tops in the NFL. 
And he just showed he can still be dangerous on kickoffs, too. 
That’s an opportunity Hester welcomed and he got it against Minnesota, even though the Bears have two solid options in Danieal Manning and Johnny Knox. 
“It’s a team effort thing, and whenever I get the opportunity to make plays I want to be a part of it and so my teammates have faith in me, let them know that you can always count on me,” Hester said. “I’m going to go out and bust my tail and help them get the job done.” 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 16, 2010 
Stone 
continued from page 16 
“It was a similar format as last week, more like how it will be in the spring,” Stone said. 
Despite its brevity, Stone said his squad had a successful fall season and that he now has a good grasp of what his team needs to accomplish during the offseason. 
“We had some things we wanted to accomplish and we were able to accomplish those,” Stone said. “We have a pretty good idea where we are and what we need to improve on. Overall, the team is pretty good.” 
Now that the offseason has begun, the Irish can only hold 

official practice for eight hours  place in the 3-meter. Brus  we’d have to compare ourselves  
each week until the second half  After a c ompetitive meet to them at altitude.”  
of the 2010-11 season begins.  against Pu rdue on Nov. 6, In Friday’s meet against  
Stone said this time will be used for improving the fitness and  continued from page 16 where the Bed the Irish  oilermakers defeat-Utah, Welsh particularly credit­173-127, the Irish ed the senior class for leading  
strength of his athletes.  respectively, in the 200 yard put in the w ork to prepare for the team to victory.  
“It’s about getting stronger  butterfly in one of the tighter Utah.  “What I was happiest to see is  
and more fit, improving physi­ races of the meet. “We swam  well against our senior class racing really  
cally,” he said.  Freshman Frank Dyer earned Purdue, so it  was not a question well,” Welsh said. “That was the  
Stone also mentioned that the  two more Irish wins in the 50­of swimming  well [against last two-team dual meet in the  
winter offseason can also be a  yard and the 100-yard freestyle Utah],” Wels h said. “We swam pool of the season. To see the  
good time to address individual  events. Senior Joseph Raycroft well both w eeks. Part of our seniors swimming well was very  
needs based on what the coach- secured another first-place fin-idea and h ope is that we gratifying — the divers, too.”  
ing staff noticed during the fall  ish in the 200-yard breast-improve from  week to week. We The Irish will not compete  
season regattas.  stroke, followed by senior Peter continue to  see that happen-again in their home pool until  
“Everybody’s a little different  Koppel in third. ing.”  late January at the Shamrock  
on what they need to improve,  The Irish swept all of the Welsh was  quick to point out Invitational. The team hits the  
and that’s what the winter is  meet’s diving events. Senior that the Irish  had more than a road on Dec. 3 for the Iowa  
for,” Stone said. “Telling them  diver Eric Lex won both the 1­home-pool advantage.  Invitational, where they will  
they need to work on this or  meter and 3-meter, while senior “They [Ute s] do most of their compete against Iowa and  
work on that.”  Wes Villaflor finished second in competing an d all of their train-Denver.  

Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
the 1-meter and third in the 3­meter. Senior Nate Geary sec­ond in the 1-meter and third ing at altitude,” Welsh said. “When you get to sea level, things are different. To be fair, 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
St. Mary’s to open vs. Wheaton 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary ’s opens up the 2010 -11 campaign with a road matchup against Wheaton College. 
The program is coming off another successful year under the helm of Belles coach Jennifer Henley, as they tallied fifteen victo ­ries and finished in the top three in the conference for the second straight year. A victory over Albion in the first round of the MIAA Tournament last year marked the fourth straight year the Belles advanced to the semifinals of the tournament. 
The Belles only have two returning seniors, but that lack of experience does not mean a lack of talent. The squad boasts two key returning starters in jun­ior forward Kelley Murphy and senior guard Liz Wade . Murphy led the team in scoring last year while registering at least 10 points in 23 of the team’s 27 games. Murphy was selected to the All ­MIAA Second Team and finished the season among the top 10 individuals in the league in seven statis­tical categories. 
Meanwhile, Wade set a new Belles single season record with 102 steals last year. She also became the first player to record 100 assists and 100 steals in the same season and the second to amass 200 assists and 200 steals in a career. 
The Belles face a diffi ­cult test in the Thunder, who return all five starters. Wheaton also fea­tures a 6’2” freshman in Maris Hovee, who should pose a serious threat in the post. 
The Belles begin the journey for a conference title Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Wheaton College ’s King Arena. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
Eagles guard Chynna Bozeman led the scoring for her team with 12 points. The Eagles shot just 17.5 percent from the field, including a 2­of-18 effort in the first half. 
The Eagles played their first game Friday at No. 9 Kentucky, losing 84 -48. Notre Dame will play at Kentucky Saturday after fac­ing No. 16 UCLA at home Thursday. 
“We’re ready for the chal-
Hodges 
continued from page 16 

“We’re just better defen­sively,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I think we’re quicker. I think we have a mindset, and defense is all about the mindset. I don’t think we had it as much in lenge,” McGraw said. “I think we’re all looking forward to the next game just to see where are we really. We have an idea after two games of some things we’re good at. Now we need to find out what we’re not good at.” 
t h e p a s t a n d  14 points. She  
now this group  a l s o h a d s i x  
really likes to  rebounds and  
d e f e n d a n d you can tell.” Notre Dame had 26 steals  “Everybody on this team has a role and when we all play  t w o s t e a l s . Freshman for­ward Natalie Achonwa was­ 
t h r e e d a y s after setting a n e w s c h o o l  together, we’re dangerous.”  n’t far behind, with 10 points a n d t h r e e  
record with 36  rebounds.  
a g a i n s t N e w  Skylar Diggins  “ T h e y ’ r e  
H a m p s h i r e F r i d a y. T h e  sophomore guard  c a p a b l e o f h a v i n g b i g  
I r i s h s c o r e d  n i g h t s , ”  
3 5 p o i n t s o f f  McGraw said.  

Thursday’s game is sched­uled for 7 p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
“Offensively, from the start of the game, from the jump, I saw it was going to be a good game,” Diggins said. “On the first play of the game, Becca was wide open.” 
Diggins finished the game with nine points and eight assists, one away from a per­sonal best. 
Freshman guard Kayla McBride led the scoring with 


of 40 total Eagles turnovers. 
“That’s something we’re trying to pride ourselves on, is how we’re playing defen­sively,” McGraw said. “We are playing hard for 40 min­utes.” 
By the time Eagles forward Channing Hillman made an easy layup with 11 minutes to go in the first half, Notre Dame had 20 points. Senior forward Becca Bruszewski scored the first basket of the game just six seconds after tip-off. 
“Both of them have lots of poise for freshmen.” 
Junior guard Natalie Novosel followed McBride with 13 points and sopho­more guard Kaila Turner had 
10. Six more players scored at least five points. 
Bruszewski led the team with seven rebounds, and eight more players had at least three boards. 
“Everybody on this team has a role, and when we all play together, we’re danger­ous,” Diggins said. 


Tuesday, November 16, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, November 16, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Getting defensive 
Notre Dame’s defense surrenders only 28 points in a tour de force against Morehead State 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins said No. 12 Notre Dame’s focus for this year is to own the first four minutes of each game. 
Against Morehead State Monday night, the Irish owned more than that as they defeated the Eagles 91-28 at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Notre Dame (2 -0) held Morehead State (0-2) without a field goal for nearly nine minutes and went into half­time leading 40-7. The half­time score tied a school record for fewest points allowed in a half, last achieved in 1985. 
“We need to set the tone early,” Diggins said. “We need to start the game with defen­sive intensity.” 
Eagles coach Tom Hodges said his team had watched tape from last year’s Notre Dame squad, which did not play the same type of defense. 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Freshman guard Kayla McBride drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 91-28 win over Morehead see HODGES/page 14 State Monday. McBride led the Irish with 14 points in the victory. 

WOMEN’S ROWING 
Irish learn from tough exhibition 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
In the final tune-up of the fall season, the Irish competed against regional foes Indiana, Michigan State and Ohio State in Columbus, Ohio. 
While the Spartans and Buckeyes largely dominated the races throughout the day, Irish coach Martin Stone acknowl­edged the stiff competition his squad faced and said the expe­rience was ultimately a success. 
“Michigan State and Ohio State are pretty good,” he said. “Our second varsity improved their speed. We learned some stuff and raced against two teams that have been really good for four or five years now. Overall, it was pretty success­ful.” 
Sunday’s event, the second team meet in as many weeks for Notre Dame, was again geared toward preparing the team for the second part of the rowing season in the spring. 
see STONE/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Team takes down Utah in front of full house 
Big win prepares team for upcoming Nationals 
By MIKE TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s dominance over Utah this weekend was not limited to a victory on the football field. In a con­vincing performance, the Irish rolled past the Utes 
185.5 -112.5 Friday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Notre Dame earned 11 individual wins and one relay victory during the final dual meet of the year. Sophomore diver Jenny Chiang earned two gold medals in the 1­meter and 3-meter dives, while senior Samantha Maxwell also took two golds in the 100 -yard and 200 ­yard breaststroke. Sophomore Kim Holden rounded out the victories with a pair of golds in the 100-yard and 200-yard back­stroke. 
The bleachers were entire­ly full for the meet, as fans for both Utah (3-1) and Notre Dame (2 -3) came out in strong numbers to cheer on their respective teams. Maxwell that she enjoyed swimming in front of the enthusiastic crowd. 
“Having the stands absolutely packed made a fun racing environment, and it was awesome to be able to pull out a win on parents’ weekend,” Maxwell said. “It helped bring the level of competition up a notch.” 
Maxwell was encouraged by the progress shown by freshman Lauren Stauder, who earned second place in the 100-yard breaststroke. 
“ I  w a s  s o  e x t r e m e l y  
i m p r e s s e d  w i t h  L a u r e n  
S t a u d e r ’s  s w i m s  a g a i n s t  

Utah,” Maxwell said. “She came into the meet and dropped a lot of time from her in-season performances so far this year. It’s always awesome to see a teammate’s hard work pay off at a meet.” 
The Irish compete next in the U.S. Nationals in Columbus, Ohio, from Dec. 2­
4. Maxwell believes that the win over Utah positioned the Irish well for the nationals invitational. 
“I think each swimmer on our team was able to learn something from this meet that will help them individu­ally at Nationals,” Maxwell said. “The meet against Utah also helped put us on a high note going into Nationals, which is always a plus.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Squad defeats Utah at Rolf’s 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
An enthusiastic and support­ive crowd can make all the dif­ference in a competitive swim meet, as evidenced in Notre Dame’s victory over Utah in front of a packed, standing-room-only crowd Friday. 
Backed by a supportive crowd on family day, the Irish took down the Utes, 184-116, earn­ing a win in 13 of 16 events. 
Irish coach Tim Welsh said the energetic crowd helped the team to its victory. 
“It was a very spirited, high energy meet from start to fin­ish,” Welsh said. “There was a great crowd and great enthusi­asm. That helps us swim bet­ter.” 
Senior captain Mike Sullivan took the first win for Notre Dame in the 1,000-yard freestyle. He clocked in at 9:33, while sophomore Wesley Mullins followed in third overall at 9:48. Junior Petar Petrovic and freshman Bertie Nel swam the 100-yard backstroke in 
51.31 and 51.58, respectively, to earn first and second for the Irish. 
Sophomore Mason Weber secured another win for the Irish in the 100-yard breast­stroke, followed by sophomore Christopher Johnson in second. Seniors Christopher Wills and Steven Brus finished in first and third at 1:53:28 and 1:53:47, 
see BRUS/page 14 






