the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


duLacpoliciesfacingpossiblerevisions 
Student discusses his own experiences with the Office of Residence Life and Housing 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY and SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writers 
Editor’s note: This is the first installment of a two-part series examining disciplinary policies and possible revisions to du Lac, the student handbook. 
When Alumni resident Zach Reuvers was sent to the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) for a disciplinary confer­ence as a sophomore, he didn’t know what to expect. 
Reuvers, now a junior, was caught breaking parietals at 2:30 
a.m. on a weekday. The next morning, he consulted du Lac, the student handbook, to learn about his punishment from ORLH, com­monly called a “ResLife.” 
see DU LOC/page 6 



BP holds ‘Meal or no Meal’ auction 
DormholdseventtoraisemoneyforMealsonWheels,includesmealswithmembersofNotreDamecommunity 
auction will include live and dent Grant Schmidt and stu-In order to offer students a 
By KRISTIN DURBIN 

silent auctions, and all pro-dent body vice president variety of meals to bid on, 
News Writer 

ceeds from the event support Cynthia Weber. event coordinators Susan 
Meals on Wheels, a charity In addition to the live auc-Garabedian and Adriana 
For the past 25 years, the that delivers meals to home-tion, a silent auction will fea-Taylor, both sophomores, con-annual Breen-Phillips meal bound senior citizens. Students ture gift cards from several tacted regular participants and auction has allowed students can bid on dinners with a vari-area restaurants, including prospective personalities via e-to see professors, athletes and ety of prominent members of Chipotle, Olive Garden and Hot mail during winter break. They other campus celebrities in a the Notre Dame community, Box Pizza. It will also include also asked other residents of new light by auctioning off such as University President six gift baskets assembled by Breen-Phillips for names of meals with these various Notre Emeritus Fr. Theodore each section of Breen-Phillips. popular professors to provide a Dame personalities. This year’s Hesburgh, Irish football coach Each will have a unique good sampling from each col-event will continue that Brian Kelly, Vice President for theme, such as “Death by lege, Taylor said. tradition. Student Affairs Fr. Mark Chocolate” and “Luck of the 
Tonight’s “Meal or No Meal” Poorman, student body presi-Irish.” see AUCTION/page 6 
Bessette set to be canonized in October 
By CAITLIN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
Feb. 19 brought good news to the Congregation of Holy Cross and its affiliates as Pope Benedict XVI announced that Blessed Brother André Bessett e will be can­onized on Oct. 17. 
On cam­pus, mem­bers of both the Holy Cross and Notre Dame communi ­ties were excited by the announcement. 
“For us in Holy Cross, we are so joyful that the church recognized the heroic virtues of a seemingly ordinary per­son,” Fr. Peter Rocca, rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, said. “To the untrained eye, he didn’t look like a superhero, but he was indeed a superhero in living the virtu­ous life.” 
Bessette is the first member of the Holy Cross order to receive the honor of saint­hood. 
“Brother André’s canoniza­tion is an extremely important moment in the history of the order because we have seen 

see ANDRE/page 6 


Lecture:conflictinDarfur ‘not being resolved’ 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 
Should we still be talking about Darfur? 
According to professor Edith Miguda and Notre Dame alum­na Liz Kurz, the answer is yes. 
They shared their experi­ences during a talk Wednesday at Saint Mary’s sponsopred by Campus Ministry, speaking about why they felt there should still be discussion about Darfur and its people. This event was also meant to teach students about the conflicts in Darfur and Sudan. 
Miguda, a native of Kenya, explained where Darfur is and how the conflict began in this area. 
“Darfur is in the greater horn of Africa,” she said. “The greater horn has had much conflict.” 
Miguda said the conflict is not being resolved or helped by the government. 
“The heart of the problem in Darfur is the challenge of non-Arab Darfurians to what they called decades of neglect, dis­crimination and marginaliza­tion by the Arab dominated government in Khartoum,” Miguda said. 
see DARFUR/page 6 


Formerolympian’sviewonVancouver 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Now more than halfway through the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, one Notre Dame student has a unique appreciation for what these athletes go through. 
Kelley Hurley, a senior on the fencing team, competed in the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. For her, watching the Olympics has taken on a whole new meaning. 
“I realize how hard it is to qualify and I respect how hard they have been train­ing,” she said. 
Hurley said in addition to 
see OLYMPICS/page 9 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Senate discusses resolution proposals page 3  Johnny Cash album review page 12  Men’s basketball beats Pitt page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, February 25, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Friends on Facebook 
I feel like my entire life I have heard my parents and grandparents talk about their lives “back in the day.” This “day,” when there were no computers, cell phones, iPods, or YouTube, seems like ancient his­tory. They couldn’t creep on people on Facebook, read about other people’s embar­rassing lives on Texts From Last Night or illegally download movies on the Internet without get­ting caught. Without the things we rely on in our world today, what in the world Megan Finneran could they possibly 

Sports
do for entertain­ment? More impor-Production tantly, without Editor Facebook, how did they survive?! 
Don’t get me wrong; I love Facebook just as much as the next college student. It allows me to stay connected with my best friends at other schools and my sisters back home. But, it allows me to see way too much about people I barely know. Girl I went to high school with, I really hate it when “Playing Modern Warfare with the boyfrienddddd <333” is the first thing I see on my homepage. Seventh graders, I real­ly don’t care about your Friday night when you and your best friend got ready and took 87 mirror shots during the process. My personal favorite Facebookism is the “So and so are in a relationship and it’s complicated,” or the Facebook break-up when you suddenly look at the profiles of two people you thought were dating and one is single and the other is in a relationship and didn’t even realize it ended. 
Then there’s the search option. Doesn’t it creep you out that anyone can type your first and last name in the little search box and find you in seconds? I’ve changed all my settings to stop this from happening, and I still get the occasional random request. How they find me, I’m really not sure, but our parents never had to worry about this. Instead of 1,000 “friends” who could see their lives on a computer screen, they had real friends who they talked to on the phone or in person frequently. 
From that stems the “Facebook flirting.” This progression from messaging to chat­ting to texting can somehow turn into hanging out and the next thing you know you’ve added another awkward encounter in the dining hall to your list. Many of us could text someone practically until the end of time, but throw us in a room with that person who we meet for the first time, and things are about to get weird. 
At the end of the day, I love the Internet and everything it offers. But it does make life seem a little fake sometimes. My real friends are not the ones I get an occasion­al comment from, and the people I want to actually have lunch with are not the ones I make plans with via Facebook. True friends are the ones you have dinner with, the ones you call with good and bad news, and the ones you laugh with about silly statuses and pictures you find on your homepage. 
Use Facebook, love Facebook, embrace Facebook. One day you might come across your best friend from preschool. Use that search bar and go find your old best friend, but think twice before you accept that next random request. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE A FEW OF YOUR FAVOR TE TH NGS? 







Chase Riddle  Elizabeth Flood  Ella Lozon  Leon Zhou  Priscilla Choi  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Keenan  Lewis  Howard  Stanford  Breen-Philips  
“Harry Potter  “Sweats, Uggs  “Blue Moon ice  “Food, sleep  “Shiny glass  
and quarter  and Fro-yo, like  cream,  and the  marbles, cute  
dogs.”  any good Notre  sunshine and  Question of the  stickers from  
Dame girl.  boys.”  Day.”  Asia and  
Kidding.”  papers with a  

big red ‘A.’” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer The Notre Dame cheerleading squad performs during halftime of the Notre Dame men’s basketball game against Pittsburgh. The Irish beat the Panthers 68-53 Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Tampa man arrested for dressing in clown wig, mask 
TAMPA, Fla. — A Tampa man faces charges after a deputy spotted him walk­ing in a clown mask. According to jail records, the man was arrested Tuesday and charged with wearing a mask or hood on a public road over the age of 16 and resisting arrest without violence. The man, who turned 19 on Wednesday, has been released from Hillsborough County Jail on $750 bond. 
The St. Petersburg Times reported that a deputy saw the man wearing a clown mask and bright wig as he walked down a street with two other people. The group fled when deputies tried to question them, but were later located. 
Argument over parking space leads to shoot-out 
PITTSBURGH — An argument over a parking space prompted a shootout between a Pittsburgh man and police. Investigators said 61-year-old Errol Parker Sr. was in custody after firing shots at two officers responding to a 911 call in the city’s Hill District on Tuesday night. No injuries were reported. Police said a man reported that Parker punched him and brandished a gun after being asked to move his car from a parking spot the man had shoveled out. 
Authorities said that Parker fired at police after they arrived and ordered him out of the house. Parker surrendered after exchanging shots with the officers. 
Parker was facing charges including attempted homicide and assault of a police officer. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Friday Saturday 

IN BRIEF 
The Summit on Global Citizenship “Fostering Global Citizenship in Higher Education” will be held at 11 
a.m. today in the Geddes Hall Coffee House. 
A lecture titled “Military Use and Purpose of Nuclear Weapons” will begin at 2 p.m. today in 118 Nieuwland Hall. 
“Toward Mother Nature’s Approach to Energy: Electricity from Metabolism” will begin at 3:30 p.m. today. The seminar will be held in 126 DeBartolo Hall. 
A seminar about education and democracy will be held with Dr. Larry Hickman at 
3:30 p.m. today in Spes Unica 137 at Saint Mary’s College. 
“Border Crossing Saints, Border Crossing Families: The Holy child of Atocha and the Mexican Experience in the 20th Century United States” will be held at 4:30 
p.m. today in C103 Hesburgh Center. 
A SISTAR presentation will be held at 5 p.m. today in Spes Unica 145 at Saint Mary’s College. 
A Larry Hickman lecture will be held at 6:30 p.m. today in Vander Venet Theatre at Saint Mary’s College. 
“Prospero’s Books” will be shown at 7 p.m. today in Browning Cinema in Debartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Saturday Sunday 

Atlanta 44 / 25 Boston 42 / 34 Chicago 28 / 19 Denver 40 / 27 Houston 61 / 49 Los Angeles 69 / 51 Minneapolis 26 / 7 New York 37 / 32 Philadelphia 33 /32 Phoenix 74 / 49 Seattle 57 / 45 St. Louis 24 /17 Tampa 56 / 37 Washington 39 / 31 
Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 



Student senate discusses resolution proposals 

By SCOTT ENGLERT 
News Writer 
Senators discussed and passed two resolutions at its meeting Wednesday. The votes concerned the annual academic forum and the dissolution of the Department of Economics and Policy Studies. 
Junior Austin Holler, chair­man of the Committee on Academic Affairs, proposed the resolutions. 
In a brief presentation, Holler first briefed senators on the Notre Dame Forum — an annu­al campus event that had been held since 2005 until its cancel­lation this year. Administrators have said they plan to hold the Forum again next fall. 
Past topics discussed at the forum include global health, immigration and energy and sustainability 
“It was planned for the fall semester but the speaker had an issue and it was postponed,” Holler said. “For lack of better terms, it got put under the rug.” 
In proposing the resolution, Holler said he would ask “the University take action to make sure that it (the Forum) is an annual event,” Holler said. 
The resolution passed unani­mously. 
“It adds to the overall intel­lectual engagement of students at Notre Dame,” Farley senator Elise Jordan said. 
Duncan senator CJ Kelly agreed to the importance of the event. 
“There should be a lot of thought put into the topic,” Kelly said. “The purpose of it is to inspire discussion and debate.” 
In addition to Senate express­ing its support for the Notre Dame Forum, it also voted unanimously to pass Holler’s second resolution regarding the dissolution of the Department of Economics and Policy Studies. 
Senior Jeff Lakusta, chairman of the Committee on University Affairs, said it was important to note that this resolution was not intended to offer the Student Senate’s view of the dissolution of the department. Rather, the resolution calls for the decision — set for Thursday 
— to be delayed, and for the student body to have a more active voice in the process. 
Committee chairs and sena­tors agreed there has not been enough information presented to students for a decision of this magnitude. 
“We at least need to under­stand the reasoning behind such a big decision,” Lakusta said. 
Contact Scott Englert at  senglert@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 25, 2010 

Clubs able to accept Domer Dollar donations 
By COURTENAY DEVLIN 
News Writer 
The elevators in LaFortune are often a prime spot for stu­dent organizations to raise funds for charities. However, students have long expressed concern about their ability to donate cash, which few have on hand. 
Charlie Jain, a senior in Zahm Hall, found a solution to this problem with a proposal that he calls Domer Dollar Donations. 
The idea for Domer Dollar Donations originated two years ago when Jain, attempting to collect money for charities as the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) commissioner for his dorm, heard students saying they would give Flex Points or Domer Dollars if they could. 
“Regardless of whether or not students had cash on them, they felt more willing to give money if it was more convenient for them,” Jain said. 
Jain brought up the idea of using Domer Dollars to the CSC social commissioner at the time, and the proposal passed through Student Senate in Fall 2008, Jain said. 
In Spring 2009, Jain and the Student Senate Committee developed a proposal. After communicating with Food Services, the Student Activities Office (SAO) and LaFortune Administration, the program is set to begin. 
“The ultimate goal for the pro­gram is to better aid the benefi­ciaries of student clubs,” Jain said. “In doing so, this program will help students act on what they believe by enabling them to give monetary donations to charities, even when students do not usually have much money.” 
When student groups fill out an SAO request online form for a table in front of the LaFortune elevators, they can select to have the swipe machine, which is similar to the machines at the dining halls. 
Students can state the amount of money they wish to donate, swipe their card, and be on their way, Jain said. 
Rachel Roseberry, the Social Concerns chair, used the machine Friday to sell the bene­fit CD “Head Above Water.” The profits from the CD go to Student Government’s Global Water Initiative. 
“The Domer Dollars machine was easy and efficient to use, and it definitely increased our selling potential,” Roseberry said. “Some students were able to purchase the CD who would not have been able to before because they weren’t carrying cash. The machine is a great tool to allow Notre Dame stu­dents to give back with conven­ience, and it will be a great resource for any club that uti­lizes it.” 
“This program will not just be located in front of the elevators in LaFortune,” Jain said. “If the program has a successful start, then maybe more swipe machines for donating will pop up at dining halls, or, in an ideal world, a CSC commissioner or club board member would be able to walk around with a wire­less swipe machine and collect donations.” 
Contact Courtenay Devlin at cdevlin@nd.edu 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 

Africa Faith and Justice club presents at SGA 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Africa Faith and Justice group presented its plan to attend a conference in Washington, D.C., to the Student Government Association (SGA) at its meet­ing last night. SGA approved the group’s funding request to attend the conference. 
Junior Elizabeth Brown, a member of the club, said the club is one of only two campus divisions of this group. Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s are the only colleges to have an Africa Faith and Justice Club. 
“The purpose of the club is to promote awareness of issues in Africa and ways we can help,” Brown said. 
Right now the club is pro­moting awareness of the con­flict that is going on in Africa over a rare mineral called coltan. Brown said over 6.9 million people have been killed in conflicts related to the min­eral. 
Another issue the club is focusing on is education. Brown said many children have to drop out of school to help take care of their families or because of illness. 
She said a student misses an average of 30 days of school because of worms or parasites. The club raises funds to help pay for the medication needed to prevent these illnesses. 
“We want to help,” Brown said, “because we feel that it is our duty.” 
Saint Mary’s juniors Elizabeth Brown and Monica Aquirre and sophomore Katie Ciresi all plan to attend the event later in the semester along with a Notre Dame pro­fessor and members of the Notre Dame division. 
As the only college to have campus divisions of this group, the students have been asked to give a presentation on the last day of the conference. Brown said they would present what the clubs have been doing and how they have helped. 
The members said they hope to learn more ways to get involved in order to help with current issues in Africa. They also hope to come back with the ability to educate other students about the issues. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 

Councilencourageskindness 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
The idea is simple, three big favors for three other people. That’s it. 
The Sophomore Class Council (SCC) kicked off a community service week emphasizing doing small acts of kindness for others, based on premise of the 2000 movie “Pay it Forward” starring Haley Joel Osment and Kevin Spacey. 
“Our hope is with the events we have scheduled people are being educated and it will start to have a similar effect at Notre Dame,” sophomore Erin Pankiw said. 
Pankiw is a member of the Hands-On Community Service Committee, which is the group from the SCC sponsoring the event. She and six others are members of the committee, which organized the week’s events. 
She said the committee came up with the idea for the week as a way to encourage students to participate in a different form of community service. 
“We were trying to think of out of the box ways to bring service to Notre Dame,” she said. “Sometimes its hard to get stu­dents off campus to do service.” 
The idea of the service effort originates from a Starbucks in Chicago were people took turns paying for the person behind them. 
“While discussing ideas for service events at one of our meetings, someone brought up a news story in which over 100 people paid for the customer behind them in a Starbucks drive-through,” sophomore Annie Boyle, a member of the committee, said. “We found sev­eral similar stories and agreed that there were many opportuni­ties for students to be a part of the ‘pay it forward’ idea.” 
Boyle said the mission of the week is to encourage the rest of campus to adopt the idea of doing acts of kindness for others. 
“The idea of ‘paying it forward’ is for someone who has received an act of kindness to do some­thing for another person, asking not for gratitude in return but for him or her to do the same,” she said. “As a result, a sort of chain of good deeds develops. We wanted to bring the positive spir­it of this idea to our campus.” 
Greg Woods, also a member of the committee, said it has partici­pated in bigger community serv­ice projects this year, but wanted to shift gears to focus on some­thing smaller and simpler. 
“All year we’ve been focused on more of the bigger type events, like having a kids youth jamboree and visiting the Catholic Worker,” he said. “We’ve done a lot of hands-on service, but we thought that maybe what we could add to this was a focus on the smaller things.” 
Pakinaw said the week’s events started on Monday morning and will continue throughout the week. 
“We started the week passing out hot chocolate on Monday morning in front of DeBartolo and then showed the movie ‘Pay it Forward’ in Andrews Auditorium of Geddes Hall,” she said. “We have more events scheduled for the rest of the week.” 
Yesterday the committee spon­sored a panel lecture with differ­ent members of the community, including two students, members of The Catholic Worker and two members of the South Dining Hall staff. 
“Each person is to speak about how they’ve paid it forward in their own lives or how its helped people in their own lives,” she said. 
Woods said the committee coordinated an afternoon at the Boys and Girls Club in South Bend for an alternative type of community service that focuses more on social justice. 
“Basically we are going to spend three hours hanging out with the kids, doing tutoring type things and kind of preparing for child abuse awareness month, which is in April,” he said. “Best Buy donated a few video cam­eras so we’re probably going to do small public service announcements talking about the month and what it is and how to tell signs of abuse.” 
The week’s events were summed up Wednesday evening with a prayer service in Geddes Hall following the service trip to the Boys and Girls Club. Woods said he hopes after this the idea will take off and students will continue to perform acts of kind­ness. 
“This week is something we hope to see grow, but then again its something that should become more of an everyday thing,” he said. “Hopefully people take the message and move for­ward and make it part of their everyday lives.” 
Pankiw said she believes the week will encourage students to continue the effort. 
“We’re optimistic,” she said. “We’re giving students service events to educate them and show them little acts of kindness can make a difference in the lives of others.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at edonne1@nd.edu 

World & Nation 
Thursday, February 25, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Gunmen kill 13 in Mexican town 
OAXACA, Mexico — Gunmen stormed a rural town in southern Mexico and killed 13 people, while the U.S. government warned Americans against traveling to cities in a northern border state where shootouts have left slain 19 people over three days. 
Hooded assailants in several cars killed nine police officers at a checkpoint in San Vicente Camalote, a town in southern Oaxaca state, state deputy attorney general Netolin Chavez said Wednesday. 
The gunmen then burst into the ranch of Alfonso Maciel, killing him and his three sons, one of whom was a minor, Chavez said. He said investigators believe the attack Tuesday night was related to drugs, but he had no other details. 
Sudan releases 57 Darfur rebels 
KHARTOUM, Sudan — Sudan released 57 Darfur rebels on Wednesday, including 50 who had been sentenced to death, under a new truce agreement between the govern­ment and the most country’s powerful rebel group. 
The leader of the most powerful rebel group promised that it, too, would release government soldiers it holds. 
The Sudanese government and the rebel Justice and Equality Movement signed a truce agreement in Doha, Qatar, on Tuesday after a year of negotiations meant to end seven years of devastating conflict that have killed some 300,000 and displaced more than 2.7 million in the western Darfur region. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Hospital head arrested for molestation 
LOS ANGELES — The executive director of a Northern California mental hospital was arrested Wednesday for investigation of molesting his foster child for more than a decade. 
Napa State Hospital Director Claude Edward Foulk, 62, was arrested at the hospital after a five-month investigation by Long Beach police. 
The hospital fired him after he was charged Tuesday with 35 felony counts, punishable by up to 280 years in prison. 
Faulk was booked into custody in Long Beach. Prosecutors asked that bail be set at $3.5 million, Los Angeles County Deputy District Attorney Lesley Klein said. 
The investigation was started in September after a man now in his 40s came forward, Long Beach Police Sgt. Dina Zapalski said. 
Senate votes to close nuclear plant 
MONTPELIER, Vt. — The Vermont Senate voted Wednesday to block the state’s only nuclear plant from operating after its license expires in 2012. 
Vermont is the only state in the country with a law giving its legislature a say over a nuclear plant’s relicensing. The Senate’s 26­4 vote against a 20-year extension of Vermont Yankee’s license marks the first time lawmakers have formally weighed in on the question. 
With the Vernon reactor leaking radioac­tive tritium into groundwater and its owners accused of misleading state regulators about underground piping at the plant, even sena­tors who might have supported the license extension said they would have a difficult time doing so now. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. man arrested for killing parents 
WINCHESTER, Ind. — An eastern Indiana man arrested in his parents’ deaths told investi­gators they had “made a plan” for him to fatally shoot his father and help his ailing mother over­dose on medication, according to a court docu­ment filed in the case. 
Brian “Scott” Hartman, 33, was arrested Tuesday night on preliminary charges of murder and assisting a suicide, hours after police found the body of his father in the garage of the fami­ly’s rural home, said Randolph County Prosecutor David Daly. Hartman told investiga­tors that his father had been dead for nearly two weeks, according to a probable cause affidavit. 
Whalekillstrainerinpackedstadium 
Seaworld spectators horrified as orca drags woman underwater during performance 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — A killer whale attacked and killed a trainer in front of a horrified audience at a SeaWorld show Wednesday, with wit­nesses saying the animal involved in two previous deaths dragged the trainer under and thrashed her around violently. Distraught audience members were hustled out of the stadium, and the park was immedi­ately closed. 
Veteran trainer Dawn Brancheau, 40, was one of the park’s most experienced. It wasn’t clear if she drowned or died from the thrashing. 
SeaWorld spokesman Fred Jacobs confirmed the whale was Tilikum, one of three orcas blamed for killing a trainer who lost her balance and fell in the pool with them in 1991 at Sealand of the Pacific in Victoria, British Columbia. 
Tilikum was also involved in a 1999 death, when the body of a man who had sneaked by Orlando SeaWorld security was found draped over him. The man either jumped, fell or was pulled into the frigid water and died of hypothermia, though he was also bruised and scratched by Tilikum. 

A retired couple from directions. Others who Authorities provided few Shamu Stadium during her Michigan told The Associated attended the earlier show immediate details. SeaWorld 12-year career with Press that Wednesday’s said the whale was behaving in San Diego also suspended SeaWorld, starting at the Sea killing happened as a noon-like an ornery child. its killer whale show after Lion & Otter Stadium before time show was winding The couple left and didn’t Brancheau’s death. It is not spending the past 10 years down, with some in the audi-find out until later that the clear if the killer whale show working with killer whales, ence staying to watch the trainer had died. has been suspended at the newspaper said. animals and trainers. “We were just a little bit SeaWorld’s San Antonio loca-She also addressed the 
Eldon Skaggs, 72, said stunned,” said Skaggs’ wife, tion, which is closed until the dangers of the job. Brancheau was on a plat-Sue Nichols, 67. weekend. “You can’t put yourself in form with the whale and was Another audience member, According to a profile of the water unless you trust massaging it. He said the Victoria Biniak, told WKMG-Brancheau in the Orlando them and they trust you,” interaction appeared leisure-TV the whale “took off really Sentinel in 2006, she was Brancheau said. ly and informal. fast in the tank, and then he one of SeaWorld Orlando’s Steve McCulloch, founder 
Then, Skaggs said, the came back, shot up in the leading trainers. It was and program manager at the whale “pulled her under and air, grabbed the trainer by apparently a trip to Marine Mammal Research started swimming around the waist and started thrash-SeaWorld at age 9 that made and Conservation Program with her.” ing around, and one of her her want to follow that at Harbor Branch/Florida 
Skaggs said an alarm shoes flew off.” career path. Atlantic University, said the sounded and staff rushed the But Jim Solomons of the “I remember walking whale may have been play-audience out of the stadium Orlando County Sheriff’s down the aisle (of Shamu ing, but it is too early to tell. as workers scrambled Office said Brancheau Stadium) and telling my “I wouldn’t jump to conclu­around with nets. slipped or fell into the mom, ‘This is what I want to sions,” he said. “These are 
Skaggs said he heard that whale’s tank, which seemed do,’” she said in the article. very large powerful marine during an earlier show the to contradict Biniak’s Brancheau worked her mammals. They exhibit this whale was not responding to description. way into a leadership role at type of behavior in the wild. 

ITALY 

Judge convicts 3 Google execs in video case 
threatens the principle of a free and drome that was named in the 2006 
Associated Press 

open Internet. video posted on Google Video, a 
MILAN — It seems that when it However, Milan Prosecutor Alfredo video-sharing service Google ran comes to letting the Web be the Web, Robledo reflected a European concern before acquiring YouTube later that it could be the United States against with privacy when he expressed satis-year. the world. faction with a decision he said pro-The footage showed an autistic stu-
An Italian judge on Wednesday held tected a fundamental right, putting dent in Turin being pushed, pum­three Google executives criminally the interests of an individual before meled with objects, including a pack responsible for an online video of an those of a business. of tissues, and insulted by classmates, autistic teenager being bullied — a “This is the big principal affirmed who called him a “mongoloid.” verdict that raises concerns that the by this verdict,” Robledo said. “It is The prosecutor’s case emphasized Internet giant, and others like it, may fundamental, because a person’s that the video had been viewed 5,500 be forced to police their content in identity is a primary good. If we give times over the two months it was Italy, and even beyond. that up, anything can happen and online, when it climbed to the top of 
The reaction to the verdict in the that is not Oklahoma.” Google Italy’s “most entertaining” United States was swift and nearly The charges stemmed from a com-video list and had more than 80 com-unanimous in its condemnation of a plaint by Vivi Down, an advocacy ments, including users urging its dangerous precedent experts said group for people with Down syn-removal. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 25, 2010 
dents punished as much.’ We just questioned repeatedly about the trative hearing, he or she is mends students try to relax during want to make sure the punish-events that led him to the hearing. required to write a personal state-their meeting. 
du Lac 
continued from page 1 
“This was my first time [facing a disciplinary conference], and I really didn’t know what I was up against,” Reuvers said. “I was thinking, ‘am I going to get removed from my dorm, kicked off campus, put on University proba­tion?’” 
Reuvers said the vague wording in du Lac about the punishments for parietals violations — the handbook cites expulsion as a pos­sible punishment — was problem­atic for him going through the process for the first time. 
Associate Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk said the University began a “major revi­sion” of du Lac in the fall of 2007, and the administration is seeking input from student government and the student body. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said student government is discussing possible changes to du Lac in several areas, including alcohol policy, disciplinary sanc­tions and sexual assault. 
“We are talking about things students care about,” Schmidt said. “We’re not just talking about, ‘Hey, we don’t want to see stu­ments are accurate and deserved.” 
Kirk said the wording for pari­etals violations is one of the seg­ments of the handbook currently under examination. 
For parietals, the handbook cur­rently states: “Overnight parietal violations are considered serious violations, and students who com­mit such violations shall be subject to disciplinary suspension or per­manent dismissal.” 
The University does not allow students to be in the dorm room of a member of the opposite sex between 12 a.m. to 9 a.m. on weekdays and 2 a.m. to 9 a.m. on weekends. 
“You just don’t know what is going to happen because du Lac is pretty vague, and it pretty much lets [ORLH] have full discretion,” Reuvers said on facing the conse­quences for his parietals violation. 
Calling himself a “ResLife vet,” Reuvers said he has faced discipli­nary sanctions from ORLH three times. The first two were discipli­nary conferences and the third was an administrative hearing. 
Reuvers said sitting through the administrative hearing was an “intense” experience. He met with the complete ORLH staff and was 
“When you go into there, nobody’s your friend. You’re assumed to be guilty,” he said. “So it was scary, but at the same time it’s reality, and you have to take those things seriously.” 
There are currently two types of methods listed in du Lac used by the ORLH to discipline students: disciplinary conferences and administrative hearings. Students receive a letter informing them which method will be used. 
In a disciplinary conference, a student meets with one or multi­ple staff members from ORLH to “investigate, discuss and resolve the alleged violation,” du Lac states. 
The student can receive punish­ments ranging from a warning to disciplinary probation. 
Disciplinary suspension and per­manent dismissal cannot be issued at a conference, and are reserved for administrative hearings. 
An administrative hearing, the more serious of the sanctions, requires the student to meet with two or three ORLH staff members. The full range of punishments is available to be issued, du Lac states. 
After the student attends a disci­plinary conference or an adminis­ment before ORLH makes its deci­sion, Judicial Council peer advo­cate John Saulitis said. 
The Judicial Council peer advo­cacy program offers advice to stu­dents facing disciplinary sanctions and can sit in on the meetings but cannot speak on the students’ behalf. 
Saulitis said a student has cer­tain rights during the disciplinary process that many do not know about. For example, students can schedule a meeting with someone from ORLH to look at their disci­plinary file. 
Students are also allowed to have a peer advocate or friend come in with them to the meeting, although the peer is not allowed to have a speaking role, Saulitis said. 
“You can have someone come with you and sit in the meeting with you,” he said. Saulitis said the number one advice he gives to students who are going through the disciplinary with ORLH is to tell the truth. 
“I think anybody can tell when someone is being fake,” he said. “Be honest. Accept responsibly for what you did. Show that you’ve made a concerted effort to think about what you’ve done.” 
Saulitis said he also recom­
“It’s not the end of the world,” he said. “Ninety-nine percent of the cases at Notre Dame, you don’t get expelled. You’ve got to be able to relax because the people who do get expelled are really nervous and don’t know what to do and don’t handle it well. “If you get worked up [during your meeting with ORLH,] be able to step a back and breathe and get back in the rhythm of things again,” Saulitis said. 
Kirk said the Office of Residence Life hopes to get feedback on du Lac revisions from student govern­ment. Schmidt said student gov­ernment will recommend revi­sions to du Lac, specifically regarding alcohol and disciplinary policies. 
“Our job is just to help them bet­ter understand the culture and help them understand how stu­dents act,” Schmidt said. 
The second and final installment of this series will examine possible changes to the policies in du Lac. It will run in tomorrow’s Observer. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu and Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Professor Jim McKenna, He eventually became known power or influence, but that it prayer for more than 40 years. ness lies not only in prestige, chair of the anthropology 
AuctionAndre 

department, and his wife, continued from page 1 Montreal” after several of his said. “His life has a lot to as “The Miracle Man of lies in the beatitudes,” Rocca 
continued from page 1 Professor Joanne Mack, tradi­prayers were said to have teach us on wherein true 
tionally take students to the church confirm the true made miracles happen. greatness can be found.” 
LaSalle Grille in South Bend According to Taylor and for an evening of food and and heroic virtue of Brother “He was a truly great man, a “All of us in the Notre Dame Garabedian, the campus conversation. 

André,” Fr. Wilson Miscamble, humble man and one whose family are delighted to hear of celebrities decide how many “We love every minute of it a history professor, said. life was dedicated to service, Brother André’s canonization. 
students to take to dinner, and the students we meet “We in the order have known praying for the sick and tend-Brother André’s life — now where they will have the meal become our friends,” of Brother André’s incredible ing to their needs,” Rocca recognized as a true treasure and how much they want to McKenna said. “It is just gift for healing, his tremen-said. of the church — and his con-spend per plate. Some partici­another wonderful reminder dous prayerfulness, his great People were amazed by his tinuing advocacy, renew, deep-pants, such as Carolyn Woo, of the way Notre Dame, devotion to St. Joseph and his humility and hospitality and en and strengthen our founda­dean of the Mendoza College through its good works, helps wonderful hospitality extended especially with the way in tional mission,” University of Business, and Anre Venter, us break the barriers between particularly to the sick and which he dealt with the sick President Fr. John Jenkins professor of psychology, treat our students and us, the facul­those in need while he was and poor, Rocca said. said in a written statement. 

students to home-cooked, eth­ty.” 

still living,” Miscamble said. “He lived the life of a humble Miscamble said Bessette’s nic meals, while others take Venter, who treats students “The canonization provides Holy Cross religious, and his canonization is a teachable winners out to expensive to a traditional South African the opportunity to share him life was dedicated to the poor,” moment for the members of restaurants, including Sorin’s. 
meal at his home, agreed with with the world.” Rocca said. “He welcomed the Notre Dame community. 

Poorman traditionally gives McKenna’s view of the event’s Bessette was born in Canada people to Montreal and saw “Since Notre Dame was students a tour of the Main impact on student-professor in 1845 and spent most of his Christ’s image in them. He founded by the Holy Cross Building and the tunnels relationships. 

youth working in a variety of loved people and was sensitive order and is involved with around campus. A new offer­“It is a great opportunity to jobs in the United States. Upon to them. He saw the poor and Holy Cross in so many ways, I ing this year is a meal in get to know students, and we return to Canada, he was the suffering and found the hope that Notre Dame will cel-Chicago with Professor have been able to develop called to join the Holy Cross poor, suffering Christ in them.” ebrate the canonization in var-Candida Moss of the Program some wonderful relation-order in 1867. Bessette inspired the build-ious ways and hopefully take of Liberal Studies. 
ships,” Venter said. “I think it Though he was almost com-ing of St. Joseph’s Oratory in to heart some of the lessons of “Certain meals earn a lot of is good for students and facul­pletely illiterate, Bessette Montreal, now an enormous André’s life, especially regard-money because of the number ty to engage outside the con-proved to be a valuable mem-basilica in which he is ing his fidelity to the Gospel,” of students involved, whereas straints of the typical settings ber of the order. He began entombed. After his death in Miscamble said. “He was a others make money because on campus.” 

working as a porter at 1937, more than one million remarkable man.” 
the meals are expensive,” Schmidt said he was sur­Montreal’s College of Notre people came to file past his Taylor said. “It’s a good way prised at his identification as aDame, where he welcomed casket at the Oratory. Contact Caitlin Kalscheur at for people to donate money to “campus celebrity” but people with kindness and “He’s a reminder that great-ckalsche@nd.edu 

a great cause while getting to nonetheless voiced his enthu­see another side of professors siasm about the event. 
and other people on campus.” 
“Coach Kelly, Fr. Poorman, Garabedian said the off-Professor McKenna and more are used to. They are now in were blocking the entrance to campus restaurants were will-blow us out of the water,” the desert and this makes agri-the embassy,” Kurz said. “I ing to make generous gift card 
Darfur 
Schmidt said. “But we will be culture difficult and their stan-spent 20 hours in jail and it donations to the event. 
sure to take whoever is kind “The donations from continued from page 1 dard of living is very low. was one of the most amazing enough to bid on us to a very “They were forced to leave experiences of my life. I don’t Chipotle are like Christmas in delicious meal and we’re look-She also talked about the suf-the only place they have ever know how many people we February,” she said. 

ing forward to helping out.” 

fering of the people in Darfur. known and into these camps,” may have saved that day, I Garabedian and Taylor said The live and silent auctions Miguda said they live in fear Kurz said. don’t know how effectual it they were happy about the will take place tonight from because there are rebels and Kurz said she had a friend was, but I tried.” 
number of new and returning 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in groups of people who attack who traveled to Sudan and This is an extreme example participants. 

Burger King and the Sorin and kill innocent people. brought back not only pictures of a way to help, and Kurz and “It’s very cool to see people Room in LaFortune. Students “Janjaweed — they are the and an experience of a life-her friends were tried and at Notre Dame being so willing may pay for meals with cash, ones who have ransacked vil-time, but she also brought back found guilty in a court of law. 

to participate in the event,” check or the new Domer lages — raped women and knowledge about the condi-She will always have a misde-Taylor said. “It shows the Dollars option for charity lined up men and shot them,” tions in the refugee camps. meanor on her record, but she amazing generosity on cam-events. 

Miguda said. Kurz and six others decided said she will never regret what 
pus, and everyone is willing to According to the United they needed do something to she did. 
help, from students to profes-Contact Kristin Durbin at Nations, out of the population try and help. On Feb. 23, the Peace Accord 
sors.” kdurbin@nd.edu of six million, up to 300,000 “The best way you can help was signed in Doha, Qatar, people have been killed and people in Sudan is to be arrest-ending the war in Darfur. some 2.5 million have been ed in front of the Sudanese According to Miguda, however, displaced. embassy, because it saves peo-there are still many people 
“But everyone knows that the ple from being killed,” Kurz who need help, especially those number is much, much larger said. who have been displaced from than that,” Miguda said. Kurz said she and her six their homes. Many people have fled Darfur friends tried this to help the “Little, small actions can and gone to refugee camps in people in Darfur and in Sudan. make a big difference,” Miguda other parts of Sudan or even “The seven of us went, we said. other countries. knelt, we prayed the rosary 
Kurz, a native of South Bend, and the Our Father and we Contact Carolynn Smith at said this is not the land they were arrested because we csmith02@saintmarys.edu 

The Observer 
Business

Thursday, February 25, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Chrysler to fix crash sensors 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. — Chrysler Group LLC on Wednesday asked the owners of more than 355,000 of its popular minivans to take them to dealers in a few months to replace crash sensors that help to control the air bags. 
The sensors can crack and fail in 2005 and 2006 Town & Country and Dodge Grand Caravan models, Chrysler said in a statement. It is asking owners to wait until June to con­tact dealers because it needs time to distribute repair parts. 
The automaker is calling the move a “safety improvement campaign” and says it is not a recall. But National Highway Traffic Safety Administration spokeswoman Oliva Alair says the agency considers it a recall and is moni­toring repairs to make sure they are carried out. 
Coca-Cola may buy U.S. bottler 
NEW YORK — Coca-Cola Co. may buy the North American operations of its biggest bot­tler, a deal that echoes a move by rival PepsiCo in response to falling soft-drinks sales, The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday. 
If the partial acquisition of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. goes through, the rest of the bottler would remain independent and buy Coke bottling operations in Scandinavia and Germany, the newspaper reported. It already has operations in several European countries. 
The exact value of the deal was uncertain but it is expected to be valued at more than $15 billion including equity and assumed debt, the newspaper said, citing people familiar with the matter. 
Shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises shot up in aftermarket trading Wednesday, gaining $5.48, or 29 percent, to $24.61. 
The beverage industry has watched soda sales fall, prompting the big beverage makers to seek greater control over costs and how their drinks are distributed. 
Coca-Cola Co. is the world’s biggest bever­age company. Its main rival, PepsiCo, announced in August it would buy its two biggest bottlers — Pepsi Bottling Group Inc. and PepsiAmericas Inc. — in a deal valued at $7.8 billion. PepsiCo has estimated it will save $400 million from buying the bottlers. 
Hummer brand faces shutdown 
Sale to Chinese heavy equipment maker falls through; GM to shut down division 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Hummer, the off-road vehicle that once symbolized America’s love for hulking SUVs, faces a shutdown after its sale to a Chinese heavy equipment maker col­lapsed. 
Sichuan Tengzhong Heavy Industrial Machines Co. said Wednesday it pulled out of the deal to buy the company from General Motors Co. Tengzhong failed to get clearance from Chinese regulators within the pro­posed timeframe for the sale, the Chinese manufac­turer said. 
GM said it will continue to honor existing Hummer warranties. 
“We are disappointed that the deal with Tengzhong could not be completed,” said John Smith, GM vice president of corporate planning and alliances. “GM will now work closely with Hummer employees, dealers and suppliers to wind down the business in an orderly and responsible manner.” 

GM has been trying to sell the loss-making brand for the last year and signed a deal with Tengzhong in October. However, resist­ance from Chinese regula-last-minute bids for the 2008. stake in Tengzhong, would tors, who have been put-brand, which employs Sales peaked at 71,524 have gotten 20 percent. ting the brakes on invest-about 3,000 people who in 2006. But in December The investors would also ment in the fast-growing make and sell Hummers in 2009, only 325 Hummers have owned Hummer’s Chinese auto industry, cre-the U.S. were sold, down 85 per-nationwide dealer net­ated difficulties from the “In the early phases of cent from the previous work. start. the wind-down, we’ll year, according to Financial terms of the 
As recently as Tuesday, entertain offers and deter-Autodata Corp. sale were not disclosed, private investors were try-mine their viability, but Sticker prices start at although a person briefed ing to set up an offshore that will have to happen in more than $42,500 and on the deal at the time said entity in a last-minute pretty short order,” he run to about $63,000, the sale price was around effort to complete the said. according to data posted at $150 million. GM’s bank-acquisition ahead of a Feb. Hummer, which traces its the Hummer.com Web site. ruptcy filing last summer 28 deadline. That plan, origins to the Humvee mili-The H3, the most fuel-effi-said that the brand could along with other options, tary vehicle built by AM cient vehicle in Hummer’s bring in $500 million or was unsuccessful, accord-General LLC in South lineup, averages about 16 more. ing to a person close to the Bend, Ind., acquired a mpg. The vehicles are built Beijing had been cool to situation. The person devoted following among at GM’s factory in the acquisition. Tengzhong declined to be identified in SUV lovers who were Shreveport, La. lacks a government permit order to speak more freely. drawn to the off-road Under the initial agree-to manufacture cars, and 
“There’s no way forward ready vehicles. But they ment to sell Hummer, the Chinese government with that,” this person drew scorn from environ-Tengzhong would have has been seeking to said. “We’re out of time.” mentalists and sales never received an 80 percent streamline and slow invest-
GM spokesman Nick recovered after gasoline stake, while Hong Kong ment in the fast-growing Richards said the prices spiked above $4 a investor Suolang Duoji, auto industry rather than automaker would still hear gallon in the summer of who indirectly owns a big to attract newcomers. 

Blockbuster announces huge losses 
Associated Press 16 percent in the fourth quarter. Blockbuster’s fourth-quarter revenue 
Blockbuster’s woes contrasted with a plunged 18 percent to $1.08 billion — 
DALLAS — Blockbuster Inc. suffered sharp upturn in business for DVD-by-in line with analyst estimates. a fourth-quarter loss of $435 million as mail pioneer Netflix Inc., which added The downturn has renewed concerns its video rental stores struggled to 1.16 million subscribers during the about whether Blockbuster will be able attract consumers who are increasingly final three months of 2009 to generate to bring in enough money to repay its getting their movies through the mail, a fourth-quarter profit of $31 million. debts, which totaled $964 million vending machines and high-speed Most of Blockbuster’s fourth-quarter entering this year. Those worries have Internet connections. loss, which translated into $2.24 per bruised Blockbuster’s already battered 
The setback announced Wednesday share, stemmed from charges to stock. reflected a dismal holiday season, usu-account for the crumbling value of its The shares fell 4 cents in ally one of Blockbuster’s busiest times franchise. Blockbuster lost $360 mil-Wednesday’s extended trading after of the year. lion, or $1.89 per share, at the same closing the regular session at 36 cents, 
The company, based in Dallas, boost-time in 2008. down 2 cents. The company said it may ed its ad spending in December in If not for the non-cash charges in the seek shareholder approval for a hopes of luring more customers into its latest quarter, Blockbuster said it reverse stock split to lift the value of its stores, but the investment didn’t pay would have lost 24 cents per share. shares above $1 and preserve its listing off. That figure was still higher than the on the New York Stock Exchange. It 
In a key measure of a retailer’s loss of 17 cents per share anticipated also is considering a recapitalization health, sales in Blockbuster stores open by analysts surveyed by Thomson that could involve giving its lenders in the U.S. for the past year plunged by Reuters. stock in exchange for reducing its debt. 
page 8 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 25, 2010 Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Man charged with manslaughter appeals for bail 
Associated Press 
PRESCOTT, Ariz. — The con­ditions of release for a motiva­tional speaker charged with manslaughter will be modified, but exactly how won’t be revealed until later this week, a judge said Wednesday. 
Attorneys for James Arthur Ray have been trying to per­suade the judge to lower his $5 million bond. Ray has been held in a county jail in Camp Verde, Ariz., since his arrest earlier this month. 
Ray is facing three manslaughter counts for deaths that occurred following a sweat lodge ceremony he led near Sedona in October. If con­victed, he faces up to 12½ years on each count, with pro­bation being an option. 
Prosecutors asked that the bond be set at $1.5 million to ensure Ray’s continued appearances in court, along with the surrender of his pass­port and restrictions on travel. But defense attorneys argued that Ray should either be released on his own recogni­zance or bail be set at a couple hundred thousand dollars. They said he cannot afford even a $1 million bond, isn’t a flight risk or a threat to public safety and has no criminal his­tory. 
Earlier Wednesday, Ray’s attorneys called their first of two witnesses — the financial controller for Ray’s company, James Ray International — to testify in an effort to discredit a determination from the sole prosecution witness that Ray’s net worth is $2.4 million. 
Alex Smyth testified that Ray’s business is operating at a loss, employees were laid off, 
Olympics 
continued from page 9 
the newfound respect she has for the athletes, watching the Games has brought out a com­petitive edge in her. 
“I get this rush when I watch them, that I want to get out there and do it again,” she said. 
Hurley said despite the fact the Games occur every four years, for most athletes the year leading up to the Olympics is really crucial in qualifying, regardless of whether they participated in the last games. 
“I still have to go through the same quali­fication 

process,” she “I get this rush when said. “The year 
I watch them, that I 
before is the 

want to get out there
most impor ­

tant.” and do it again.” Hurley said 
these qualifying 

Kelley Hurley 
rounds can get 

senior
awkward, con­sidering former Olympic athlete 
American team­mates are com­peting against one another for Olympic roster spots. 
“It is awkward how all the Americans are competing against one another. We’re supposed to be cheering everyone on, but sometimes you want your opponent to fall flat on their face,” she said. 
Hurley said outside of the athletic competition and net­work coverage, athletes are able to kick back and relax in his properties are in foreclo­sure and that Ray essentially drained his bank accounts fol­lowing the Oct. 8 sweat lodge ceremony in anticipation of high legal fees, not in an effort to flee. 
“There would be no reason for him to behave that way,” he said. 
Defense attorneys said Ray’s family had offered up proper­ties they own as well as jewel­ry and other assets to help bail Ray out of jail, but bail agent Jeff Wilhelm testified that much of that couldn’t be included as part of a bond package. He estimated the value of a Beverly Hills man­sion Ray recently put up for sale at only $250,000. 
“What’s happening here is wrong. It’s just plain wrong,” Ray attorney Luis Li said in closing statements. “It’s like the state created special rules for Mr. Ray, that he should get the highest bond in Yavapai County history.” 
Prosecutors focused almost entirely on Ray’s finances dur­ing the hearing. Richard Echols, an accounting fraud examiner, testified for the prosecution to dispute claims that there’s no way Ray can post the bond. 
Ray’s attorneys voluntarily provided bank statements, por­tions of tax returns and other financial information to authorities Echols reviewed, but he said the documents painted an incomplete picture. 
In closing statements, Hughes argued that $1 million that Ray set aside for legal fees, another $1 million that was unaccounted for, and his estimated net worth of $2.4 million certainly doesn’t mean Ray is struggling to the extent his attorneys contend. 


“Mr. Ray does have the financial means to post the $1.5 million bond,” Hughes said. 
Ray appeared in court in a suit and appeared to listen intently to the arguments, even looking at representatives for victims as they spoke following testimony. At one point, he winked at his girlfriend sitting in the row behind him and held his hand in a fist over his heart. 
Prosecutors allege Ray reck­lessly crammed more than 50 participants of his five-day “Spiritual Warrior” event into a 415-square-foot sweat lodge, a small heated enclosure used in traditional American Indian ceremonies to cleanse the body. 
Many participants have said Ray chided them for wanting to leave, even as people were vomiting, getting burned by hot rocks and lying uncon­scious on the ground. 
Ray’s attorneys have called the deaths a tragic accident and said he took all the neces­sary precautions and immedi­ately tended to the ill. 
Three people died — Kirby Brown, 38, of Westtown, N.Y., James Shore, 40, of Milwaukee; and Liz Neuman, 49, of Prior Lake, Minn. Eighteen others were hospital­ized. 
An attorney for the Shore family said they took no posi­tion on the bail but believed Darrow would rule fairly, while Brown’s parents and a woman representing Neuman’s family opposed any reduction. 
The Browns’ attorney, Robert Magnanini, asked Darrow to restrict Ray from holding semi­nars if he is released. 
private areas such as arcades. She said mealtimes were 

New York faces a foot of snow 
especially rewarding. “The dining hall is really guage that gets people’s atten­tion when the situation calls for it. 
c o ol be c au s e t h e r e ar e al l  tains and Vermont’s Green  
these countries in one dining hall. It is funny seeing France e atin g a t on e t able a nd Germany eating at another,”  Associated Press ALBANY, N.Y. — A powerful winter storm dumped a foot or more of snow in the Northeast  Mountains could get as much as 2 feet by the weekend. Philadelphia, which has had its snowiest winter with more  
she said. Another special experience fo r Hu rl e y a nd th e o t h e r Olympic athletes was their  on Wednesday, knocking out power to thousands and stalling air traffic from Boston to Philadelphia, all ahead of a  than 70 inches and is still dig­ging out from earlier back-to­back storms, could see as much as a foot of snow.  
close proximity to internation­al sports stars in the same venues. “A l o t of athletes go a nd wa t c h o th er ath let e s com - second system packing strong winds that could blanket the area with another foot of snow. The storm cut a swath from eastern Pennsylvania into  “It might not be until early next week that we get rid of the storm completely,” said meteorologist Hugh Johnson of the National Weather Service’s  
pete,” she said. Although Hurley said she was not able to find the time t o a t t e n d oth e r spor t i ng ev e n ts, t he  northern New England, slam­ming typically snowy regions that had been spared the para­lyzing storms that hit cities farther south earlier this win- Albany office. A description of the coming storm as a “snowicane” by State College, Pa.-based Accuweather Inc. touched off  
o p e n i ng cer e -monies provid­ed a t i me t o  ter. About 150,000 customers lost power Wednesday, hun­dreds of schools were closed  criticism — one newspaper called it a “smackdown” — by the National Weather Service.  
m e e t so me o f th o se f a mo u s stars.  and at least three traffic deaths were blamed on the storm.  On Tuesday, 48 hours before the storm was to hit, Accuweather called it “hurri­ 
“I met most of the basketball team, including K ob e B r ya n t , who were right beh i n d us i n th e Open in g C e r e mo ny, ” H ur ley s a i d . “Dwight Howard was pretend­ing to be Kobe’s bodyguard.” For Hurley, watching the Vancouver Games has fueled mem or ies o f Bei j i n g a nd i n spir e d h e r f o r Lo n don ’s 2012 Summer Olympics. “I really enjoy watching the Olympics,” she said. “It’s get­ting me all pumped.” Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu  An 89-year-old woman died in a crash in New York’s Hudson Valley. In Pennsylvania’s Pocono Mountains, a woman and a boy died when their vehicle slid off snow-and ice-covered Interstate 80; The man driving the car was not expected to survive. The system was the first of a 1-2 winter punch. Another storm forecast to hit Thursday is expected to pack wind gusts up to 35 mph, which could cause more power outages, and dump a foot or more of snow on some areas by Friday. Meteorologists said some areas of New York’s Adirondack and Catskill moun­ cane-like,” a “monster,” and a “powerful storm of historical proportions” that would wreak havoc from Pennsylvania to Maine and by Wednesday was using the term “snowicane.” That prompted a stern response from National Weather Service meteorologist Craig Evanego. “It’s almost inciting the pub­lic, inciting panic,” he said. The Weather Channel called the hurricane talk “bad mete­orology.” Accuweather senior meteor­ologist and director of fore­casting operations Ken Reeves called the NWS criticism “unfounded” and said there is nothing wrong in using lan­ 

The northern edge of Wednesday’s storm reached into the Massachusetts’ Berkshires, Vermont and New Hampshire, dumping more than a foot of snow in some areas and prompting flooding concerns in Maine. 
The hardest hit area Wednesday was Albany, N.Y., where some outlying areas had about 2 feet of snow by afternoon. The snow was so thick and heavy that even pickup trucks got stuck trying to plow it out. 
“We tried the snowblower and it didn’t work. It keeps clogging up,” said Pat McDonough as she shoveled her front walk in Voorheesville, a village just west of Albany. 
While parts of the Northeast dealt with Wednesday’s weath­er, other cities were preparing for another blast of winter. 
In New York City, Mayor Michael Bloomberg said the city was making sure building owners were aware of the pre­dicted high winds and were taking steps to tie down a that could come loose. 
“My hope is that the snow will stay to the north and west of us and we’ll just have rain — our kids need another school day,” Bloomberg said. “We will cancel school only if it really would be dangerous to get the kids into school and get them home.” 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Thursday, February 25, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

The Observer endorses Griffin -Skirtich ticket 

After reviewing the two tickets running for Saint Mary’s student body president and vice president, The Observer Editorial Board endorses junior Meg Griffin and sophomore Emily Skirtich. 
Although juniors Rachael Chesley and Laura Smith have strong ideas, Griffin and Skirtich’s experi­
ence cannot be ignored and it’s this qualifi­cation that makes them the best candi­dates. 
Griffin, as the current student body vice president, and Skirtich, as the Student Government Association (SGA) executive secretary, will make the transition in April 
much smoother since they already have an extensive knowledge of SGA. 
Their major platforms — creating more all-campus events and incorporating campus clubs with a new handbook and officer meetings — are initiatives that are plausible and will help to bridge the gap between student government and the students it represents. 
While Chesley and Smith also had innovative ideas to incorporate clubs on campus, these were much less con­crete. 
Griffin and Skirtich also have the advantage of being able to continue with initiatives begun by Jenny Hoffman, cur­rent student body president, and Griffin, including adding a Saint Mary’s heritage class to the curriculum. This would further their push for familiarizing students with the history of the College, something Hoffman and Griffin concentrated on this year. 

That being said, there are some ideas Chesley and Smith offer that Griffin and Skirtich can learn from. Their ideas about alumnae networking on campus and having SGA 
members actually attend club meetings would help 
connect students not only to each other, but the outside community. 
Griffin and Skirtich don’t focus on alumnae rela­tions or helping to bring donors to campus, and these are important issues that former administra­tions have neglected to address. If implemented, these ideas would be valued additions to student 
life. 

In the end, the largest separation between the tickets is experience, which gives Griffin and Skirtich the advantage. Since time in office is short-lived for student officials, mak­ing the most of that time is crucial. Griffin and Skirtich will be able to get to work quickly and start on their initiatives with very little training — a valuable commodity in student government. 
There are two strong tickets in this election, however, experience is too valuable to ignore and will allow the Griffin and Skirtich to pass their well-thought out initiatives with greater ease. 
Griffin and Skirtich show all signs of being competent and efficient if they are voted into office, are and valued leaders of the Saint Mary’s community. 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Jared Jedick Alicia Smith Chris Masoud Sam Stryker Tim Singler Graphics Scene Andrea Archer Alex Kilpatrick Viewpoint Ethan Bailey 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Morality in economics? 
I would like to thank Mr. Andre for his unfounded opin­ion that this Catholic University, based on Catholic values, has no “moral obligation to pay employees any more than a market price” or that this Catholic University is not responsible for the “welfare of the lower class.” This might just be me, but I thought that Catholicism was supposed to focus on morality and preferen­tial treatment for the poor. 
This University’s mission statement states, “The University seeks to cultivate in its students not only an appreci­ation for the great achieve­ments of human beings, but also a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice, and oppression that burden the lives of so many. The aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice.” Notre Dame is not just some university; it is a Catholic uni­versity. By paying $9 an hour to workers, we are contributing to the cycle of poverty that we should be trying to end. The University wants us to use our learning for justice; why are they not leading by example? Justice in the opinion of the Church is allowing people at least a living wage so that they can live day-to-day without hav­ing to be severely in debt or wondering how they are going 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are your plans for Spring Break? 
I’m too poor to go anywhere 
Staying here for the weather 
Going to Puerta Vallarta with the rest of the Senior class Home sweet home 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
to pay for their children’s healthcare bills. If you don’t believe that these are real prob­lems, talk to the workers! They will tell you about the frustra­tion that comes when you have to choose which bill not to pay each week. Many of the work­ers here don’t make a living wage, forcing them to rely on government subsidies to sur­vive. 
As a Catholic institution, we should adhere to Catholic social teaching. Pope John Paul II echoed previous popes in “Laborem Exercens,” stating that “a just wage is the concrete means of verifying the justice of the whole socioeconomic system and, in any case, of checking that it is functioning justly.” Since we, as a Catholic institu­tion, are not offering a just wage (living wage), according to Pope John Paul, we are not functioning justly. So, I’m sorry if I think John Paul II may have had a better moral compass than you, Mr. Andre, but as a Catholic, going to the most well-known Catholic university in the United States, I would hope that I could rest at ease knowing that at least Norte Dame’s eco­nomic values are just and would make John Paul II proud, but this is clearly not the case. 
Kelsey Conlon 
junior Farley Hall Feb. 25 

Good teaching, research coincide 
I’m writing to respectfully disagree with Justin DeRosa’s letter (“An argument against research,” Feb. 24) in which he criticized the University’s endeavors to improve research because he thinks this comes at the expense of quality undergraduate education. DeRosa assumes that research and teaching are mutually exclusive spheres and that gains in one area necessarily lead to a decline in the other. I would argue instead that quality teach­ing and research go hand-in-hand in at least two ways. 
First, research enables the faculty to stay current with developments in their field; I shudder to think what my lectures will be like in 20 years if I con­duct no research beyond my dissertation! Moreover, I think if you were to survey many of the faculty who are considered excellent teachers, you will probably find that they are excellent researchers as well. 
The second benefit of research at Notre Dame is that it enables undergraduates to gain hands-on experience that will be beneficial to them after graduation in their careers or future graduate studies. DeRosa overlooks the fact that the University’s drive to increase its research profile includes devoting substantial resources to under­graduate research. For science and engineering students in particular, this will be vital to their suc­cess. So, I encourage DeRosa to rethink his position and consider these benefits of research that he has overlooked. 
Rebecca McCumbers 
graduate student off campus Feb. 25 

Be green. Recycle. 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The young man knows the rules, but the old man knows the exceptions.” 
Oliver Wendell Holmes American writer 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Thursday, February 25, 2010 page 11 
The coming of spring 


Even though there’s still traces of snow here and there, Sunday was unmistakably sunny, and not in the sense of a merely clear sky. No, Sunday’s sun was hot and overbear­ing; it bugled the inexorable com-
Brooks Smith
ing of spring, and then sum-

Laddie Gaga
mer, louder than any Punxsutawney Phil news broadcast. Needless to say, I am quite grumpy. When the sun becomes insistently bright and cheer­ful, I worry that the painstakingly con­structed fog of cares and concerns with which I protect myself from the reality of the outside world is in dan­ger of dissolving outright, like so much dirty slush. 
Any fan of the Cure or the Smiths knows instinctively that sunshine is their enemy, the great gloom-killer, the murderer of melancholy. Depression has never gone out of fashion; but the darkness and mystery in which the depressive prefers to lurk, covering up their flaws and weaknesses with shadow and murk, cannot help but be dissolved by the oppressively healthy light of sun. Indeed, no worry, no depression, no unhappiness can be sustained in the center of a green park on a warm midsummer day — the very setting is antithetical to it. 
Naturally, as someone with tenden­cies towards gloom, I have to find var­ious methods of sustaining my unhap­piness through the oppressive sunlight which floods every corner for seven months of the year, and which throws every little bit of natural beauty into such sharp relief that one’s carefully tended worries and fears are in dan­ger of being totally forgotten. Total protection from the sunlight is practi­cally impossible during the summer, so that one is constantly in peril of catching oneself enjoying life or expe­riencing an unreasonable happiness (and all happiness is at bottom totally unreasonable). Therefore, for the sake of others like myself who are irritated by the sun’s constant nagging reminder that life can be pleasant and enjoyable, I have compiled a list of some of my favorite strategies to pre­serve undisturbed the healthy and natural neuroticism at the heart of any intelligent person’s worldview. 
First and foremost, if the weather should hover in the sweet spot between seventy and eighty degrees, the sun should shine brightly without clouds in the sky, the birds chirp sweetly and the cicadas drunkenly 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Think before writing 
“A just wage is the legitimate fruit of work. To refuse or withhold it can be a grave injustice. In determining fair pay, both the needs and the contributions of each person must be taken into account. Remuneration for work should guarantee humans the opportunity to provide a dignified livelihood for themselves and their family on the material, social, cultural and spiritual level, taking into account the role and the productivity of each, the state of the business, and the common good (Gaudium et Spes, #67). Agreement between the parties is not sufficient to justify morally the amount to be received in wages.” 
I’m not Catholic, but the above passage is from the Catechism of the Catholic Church, paragraph 2434. Plain and simple, the idea of a morally acceptable living wage being paid to all workers has been one of the corner­stones of modern Catholic Social Teaching since Pope Leo XIII’s Rerum Novarum (1891). 
Beyond that, I’m asking each and all members of the Notre Dame community to do some very careful intro­spection before we lift our fingers to write another Viewpoint. Are we seeing the world from the eyes of the people for or about whom we are speaking and writing? Or are we speaking as if we are the main characters in our own movie and everyone else just has supporting roles? 
Too often, we caricature one another in light of our own views and perspectives rather than giving the people we come in contact with the space and freedom to explore the fullness of their humanity with us. In doing so, we alienate and ostracize people who are different from us, leaving them on the fringes and margins of soci­ety. This is counter to the goals of integral human devel­opment as outlined by CST, and so beautifully discussed by Jeremy Tamargo in “Putting people first” (Feb 24). If we ever want to live up to our Catholic identity, we have to do better. 
Katie Washington 
senior off campus Feb. 25 


Fill this space. Send a letter. 
buzz in the trees, go inside immedi­ately, preferably to a room without windows, and stay there until the unfavorable conditions have ceased or night has fallen, whichever comes first. Occupy yourself there with mus­ing upon the negative aspects of your life situation. Remind yourself of insults others have given you, witting­ly or unwittingly. Meditate upon all the drawbacks and rejections you have experienced, your overwhelming fear of any sort of nontrivial human interaction, the hurts which you have come to identify with. All this will very shortly restore you to true mental unbalance. If you can drink yourself into an incoherent and maudlin state, crying in the fetal position on your floor, so much the better. 
However, in the dog days of summer, when it becomes intolerably hot and you seriously consider cutting the sleeves off all your shirts or even rip­ping them off by main force, it is best to perform some negative reinforce­ment by spending as much time out­side as you can stand, preferably in an area without trees or shade. Drink plenty of beer — this will dehydrate you and make you feel ill and unhap­py, conditioning you (like Pavlov’s dogs) to respond negatively to sun­light. 

Of course the best way to keep one’s misery going is to start up a one-sided romance with someone, and make sure that the one side is yours. Unrequited love is the best sort of mis­ery for wallowing in, hands-down. For one thing, it requires no input from the other side, allowing you to stew in your own juices for as long as you need to. For another, even long after the crush passes and the obscure object of desire has moved to another city, you can still make yourself miser­able by remembering your failure to impress upon him or her the potency of your love or sexual prowess. 
I could go on, of course, but the birds are chirping outside and some other people in my program want to go for a walk in the park. The flowers are blooming, the puddles are melting, the sun is shining … It’s going to be very hard to remain dissatisfied with my life. I shall have to work extra hard at it — perhaps get into an argu­ment with some of the other people. Only time will tell. 
Brooks Smith is a junior math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Gospel of Prosperity vs. The Gospel of Christ 
Just when I thought that I had heard it all, I open The Observer and read some of the Viewpoints in response to a student’s concern that the hourly waged workers at Notre Dame are not making enough money off of which to live. I find it amusing when 18 and 19-year-old white students talk about “wage inflation” when people like myself and others suggest we actually pay people fairly. As someone who worked in the labor movement in Chicago for a summer and heard the stories of human beings being exploited in the name of capitalism, it reminds me that very few people actually know what Jesus said, what the Catholic Church teaches, and what reality entails. 
One of the most shocking things written in the Viewpoint was Mark Easley’s “Word to the wise” (Feb. 18). It is a disgrace that someone attending one of the top-20 schools in the country, a Catholic one at that, knows so little about what the Catholic Church teaches on economic justice and has such a condescending attitude toward those who keep Notre Dame clean, ensure that the campus looks pristine, and feed the students. Rather than focusing on Easley’s erroneous arti­cle, I would like to focus attention on what the Catholic Church teaches on the issue and what Jesus teaches, something which many Christians have disregarded in favor for a Gospel of “Prosperity.” 
In May of 1891, Pope Leo VIII issued the first of modern Papal encyclicals entitled “Rerum Novarum.” At the time of its publishing, there was a real problem of worker exploitation, espe­cially in America. In it, Pope Leo VIII laid out that workers have certain responsibilities to their employer; to do the just work that his/her employer asks of him/her. In return, the employer “mindful of this — that to exercise pressure upon the indigent and the destitute for the sake of gain, and to gather one’s profit out of the need of another, is condemned by all laws, human and divine. To defraud any one of wages that are his due is a great crime which cries to the avenging anger of Heaven.” These are not the words of some “bleeding heart liberal calling for wage inflation” but rather are the words of Pope Leo 
VIII. Since “Rerum Novarum,” every Pope has written something demanding that workers be treated with justice and that they be given a liv­ing wage. 

This brings up another point being discussed, often on false pretenses, in Viewpoint comments: the idea that somehow $9 an hour is sufficient. Many people have alluded to their heroic days of working hourly waged jobs where they lived off of a minimum wage. The problem is, the examples they have presented are the exception, not the rule. Making $9 an hour means that person work­ing forty hours a week makes only $18,000 a year. The reality that people need to accept is that not every household is a two income house­hold. Another reality — not everyone has perfect health. $18,000 won’t cover rising health costs for those who have children with health problems or dependents who cannot work. And how far is it to ask people to work more than forty hours a week when that person has a family? The fact is that hourly waged workers are doing jobs that are needed in order to function. If they didn’t work them, we would be in a world of hurt. No garbage collected, no one to clean our streets, no one to clean up the blood in the operating room after a surgery. The problem is that in our cur­rent economic system, these jobs are not fully val­ued for the good that they provide to our society. 
I think the thing that this whole discussion has lacked is the words of Jesus. Jesus preached that “the first shall be last and the last shall be first” and that “what so ever you do to the least of these my brothers, that you so do unto me.” And yet Alex Andre in his Viewpoint article (“Welcome to capitalism,” Feb. 22) said we have “no moral responsibility” to pay Notre Dame workers a just wage. What Bible are you reading? Are you even reading the Bible? It amazes me how un-Christ­like so many on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s campuses can sound. Jesus himself was a peas­ant, suffered cruelty at the hands of humans, and yet, those claiming to be Christian forget that. Based on what the Bible says, on what Jesus said, I can say with 100 percent confidence that our Lord always takes the side of the oppressed, that were Jesus around now, he would demand a liv­ing wage for those working honestly, just as he demanded just treatment for those on the fringes of Palestinian society 2000 years ago. 
Laurel Javors 
junior LeMans Hall Feb. 25 
The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Thursday, February 25, 2010 
By NICK ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 
Bob Dylan once said Johnny Cash “was and is the North Star; you could guide your ship by him. The greatest of the greats — then and now. ” 
His career is impossible to put into perspective . He stands among the musical elite, and with the exception of Elvis and The Beatles, there are none above him in terms of popular and critical success. He ’s one 
of the many great American stories: grew up poor, served in the army, hit rock bottom (on more than one occasion), found family and reli ­gion, and faded from the spotlight as he aged . Cash ’s career and legacy reached a pinnacle in 1994 when he changed course. 
After being dropped by Columbia Records, Cash was washed up until label co -head Rick Rubin signed him to American Recordings, a rap and heavy metal label . The contract blossomed into six remarkable albums and a new audience for Cash. 
“American VI: Ain ’t No Grave,” Cash ’s latest and perhaps final entry in his work from extensive discography, the 90s was released on Jan. 23, ( m o s t three days short of what notably on would have been his 78th his cover birthday, with the bless -of Trent ings of his friends and Reznor’s family. “Hurt”). 
It ’s been seven years Instead, a and another album since portrait of Cash left this world . It m a n ’ s comes as no surprise that p r o p e r much of his output in his relati on-last days would focus on ship with his impending death . death is “Ain ’t No Grave ” is a nat -painted; ural culmination of both not eager, his American Recordings but cer ­and his impressive tainly not career. Gone is the anger, afraid. regret and sorrow that Cash only authored a pervaded much of his single track on the album, “I Corinthians 


15:55. ” Taking his inspi ­ration from the Pauline verse, “O Death, where is your victory? O Death, where is your victory? ” Cash tells of salvation with all the conviction of a preacher and twice the effectiveness. 
The album art, a con ­cept almost lost in the digital age, highlights his song writing, piecing together several hand ­written drafts in lieu of proper liner notes . The back cover presents Cash through a windowpane in the months before his death. Careful considera ­tion was clearly taken in the look of the album and, while it continues in motifs familiar to Rubin’s style, Cash’s young coun ­tenance shines out from the cover, an unusual but poignant choice for such a somber album. 
The material that Cash covers, perhaps the strongest point of American Recordings — 
other than Cash himself 
— is the most consistent 
of the series. Thankfully, gone are the cheesy choices such as “A Legend in my Time ” from “A Hundred Highways ” or “Danny Boy ” off “The Man Comes Around .” Sheryl Crow ’s “Redemption Day ” mesh ­es beautifully with Cash’s weathered vocals and stripped instruments . The final track on Cash’s final album is a surpris ­ing choice, the iconic Hawaiian “Aloha Oe. ” It masterfully avoids the pitfalls that could have easily turned it into a novelty song and ends the musical career of a legend with the grace, beauty, elegance and joy evident in the words of the piece. 
No artist will ever age as gracefully as Cash did. He never burnt or faded 
out, became a caricature, stayed past his welcome 
or impeded his own lega ­cy. In the final years of his life, he recorded hun ­dreds of songs . From these, Rick Rubin was able to put together a proper final album for the “Man in Black .” While it would be impos ­sible to say “Ain ’t No Grave ” is Cash ’s best album, it now ranks among the essentials in a string of masterpieces. 
Contact Nick Anderson at 
nanders5@nd.edu 


ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Thursday, February 25, 2010 page 13 
“Prospero’s Books” @ 7 p.m., DPAC 
“Prospero’s Books” is the first in a series of films by Welsh director Peter Greenaway that the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center plans to show this weekend. Based 
off 
of Shakespeare ’s “The Tempest,” “Prospero’s Books” is a visual masterpiece that utilizes many innovative cinematic tech­niques to tell the story from a unique perspective. The film com­bines mime, dance, opera and ani­mation as well as digital image manipulation. The film was shown 

out 
of competition at the 1991 Cannes Film Festival, meaning it did not compete for a main prize. Look for several other works by Peter Greenaway at DPAC through­out the weekend. 


The Tossers @ 10 p.m., Legends 
The Tossers, a six piece Celtic punk band from Chicago, will be performing at Legends this Friday night. They have been active since the early 90s, pre­dating such bands as the Dropkick Murphys and Flogging Molly, but have only recently begun to gain notice from more mainstream audiences. They released their most recent album, “On a Fine Spring Evening,” in October 2008. Their sound has been described as bor­dering between “rage and rau­cousness,” blending traditional Irish sound and punk rock, so the show is certain to be a high-energy performance. As always, there is no cover for this show. 
“The Road” @ 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m., DeBartolo 101 
Actor Viggo Mortensen’s latest project follows the journey of a father and son walking across the country in search of refuge from the extreme conditions produced by an apocalyptic event. They are walking south in hopes of escaping the extreme cold and desperation the cataclysm has left in its wake. The father often recalls his wife, who committed suicide before the horrific event, and finds that the boy is the only thing that keeps him going. A dark film, it is certain to make audiences consider the meaning and purpose of life. Tickets are $3 at the door. 

“Natural Selection” @ 2:30 p.m., DPAC 
This is the last day to catch “Natural Selection,” the comedy by Eric Coble which explores just how crazy the world will be in the near future if humanity continues to be heavily reliant on technology. The production centers on Henry Carson, a curator at the Cultural Fiesta Theme Park, who searches the coun­try in order to find new Native Americans for their Native American Pavilion. He is quickly faced with the difficulty of defining ‘native’ and in the process discovers the artificial nature of the world in which he lives. Tickets for this production are $15 for general admission, $12 for faculty, staff and seniors, and $10 for students. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 


By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
The guys from “The Buried Life” seem to be living the life. They have a hit show on MTV that enables them to do everything they’ve wanted in life and they get paid for it. It definitely seems like a good gig, but is it genuine? Are these guys really this care­free and cool? 
I had the opportunity talk with Dave and Johnnie and it turns out they’re even cooler than they appear. 
The project started four years ago in Victoria, British Columbia, from where the guys hail. Dave and Johnnie said they were sick of seeing their friends wasting their lives, and sick of doing what they were “supposed” to do. So they decided to use death as a motivating tool in their lives. It was supposed to compel them to do what they wanted most in life. 
When the pair asked their parents what they thought about this project, they responded with knowing laughs. They said they did get the expected questions, like “How are you going to do this?” 
However, all of their par­ents were generally support­ive. Not one told them not to follow through with what they had started. 
While they were support­ive, this support did not 
group came in. If two people were feeling really down about what they were doing and just wanted to quit and get a real job, then the other two were right there motivat­ing them and reminding them why they started doing this in the first place. 
They were offered a show in 2007, but elected not to take the pitch, as they were concerned about keeping 


Today, they are very con­tent with their involvement with MTV because the net­work simply acts as a vehicle for what they are doing. The four act as executive produc­
ers on the show and they are in full control of the editing. They wanted it to be made very clear that they were presenting something real. They wanted to show that normal people can do any­thing, because they are just that, normal guys in their mid-twenties . (Or at least they 
were.) 
They 
would not 
call them­
selves 
celebri ­
ties, but 
they are 
aware of 
increased 
profile. It seemed to 
uncom­
when 
were 
Both 
were 
So how will this higher profile affect their project? If they do sign on for a second season it will be a little more difficult to find things they cannot do, which is almost the best part of the show. They still appear to be living the life, even if they do not cross off all the items on their list. 
Perhaps the reason that Dave and Johnnie seemed so cool is that they were aware of the impact their project had on people, yet chose not to take any credit. They said that they were “just humbled to be a part of it.” What they really wanted to do when they started this project was to get other people to ask themselves to ask what they were going to do before they die. Once you acknowledge what you want to do, the next question is, why aren’t you doing anything to get there? This is the cool part about the guys on this show 
— they want it to inspire people, and not in a preachy way. 
In addition to the questions I posed to Johnnie and Dave, they had one question for the people watching the show: Everyone has something that they want to do as an indi­vidual, but what does our generation want to do as a group? 
Only time will tell. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 25, 2010 
MLB 

Jeter not interested in becoming a free agent 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Derek Jeter reiterated what every Yankees fan wanted to hear: He hopes to play in pinstripes forever. 
He just doesn ’t want to spend time talking about his future in New York. 
“I’ve said from Day One, this is the only organization I’ve ever wanted to play for, and that’s still true today,” Jeter said Wednesday before the team’s first full -squad gathering at George M. Steinbrenner Field. 
“I was a Yankees fan grow­ing up. This is where I want to be. I’ve never envisioned myself playing anywhere else, and hopefully I don’t have to,” he said. 
The 35 -year-old Jeter is entering the final season of a $189 million, 10-year deal. The All-Star shortstop said he doesn’t have a set number of years in mind that he’d like to continue playing and steered around a question about whether he has a desire to be the Yankees ’ highest-paid player. 
He said this will be the final time he speaks about his con­tract status. 
Jeter hit .334 with 18 homers and 66 RBIs in 2009, leading New York to its first World Series championship in nine years. The Yankees have won five titles during his career. 
“To be honest with you, I never put limitations on how long I can play. .... I want to play as long as I can, as long as I’m having fun, as long as I can be productive, ” Jeter said. “This organization prides itself on winning and putting a competitive team on the field. As long as I can help out, that’s as long as I want to play.” 
Closer Mariano Rivera also is headed into the last season of his contract. The Yankees have a team policy of not negotiating new contracts until a player’s previous deal expires, but it sounds as though the club wants to do everything it can to hang on to both players. 
“Let ’s put it this way, I think from the fans’ perspec­tive they can count on those guys being here a lot longer than I’m going to be here. I think they’re very secure,” general manager Brian Cashman said. 
“I don’t think there’s any sweat off any of these guys’ backs. They’ve been Yankees for life, and that’s what we intend to see happen. But again, you start those conver­sions at a different time and place that you feel is more appropriate.” 
That will be at the end of the season. 
“That’s just the practice we’ve had in place for some time now,” Cashman added. “I think these guys are pretty secure in their abilities, their knowledge of how we feel about them, the place they want to be and that lines up for discussions for another day.” 
Jeter said he doesn’t have a problem with the club ’s stance, adding his status won’t become a distraction because he’s not going to speak publicly on the matter again until after the season ends. 
“I think it’s unfair to be talking about myself when we’re trying to win. That’s the approach I’ve always had. That’s not going to change,” he said. 
“I know it’s maybe going to cause a lot of speculation. 


There may be a few stories out there, but it won’t be a distraction because I won’t be talking about it.” 
Team co -chairman Hank Steinbrenner said earlier this month that the club will address Jeter ’s contract “eventually,” adding that the 10-time All-Star’s “place in Yankee history is obvious, so I think you can pretty much assume from there.” 
Jeter, who has won three Gold Gloves and also has been a World Series and All-Star game MVP during his 14 seasons in New York, sur ­passed Lou Gehrig to become the Yankees ’ career hits leader in 2009. 
For manager Joe Girardi, it’s difficult to imagine Jeter 
or Rivera becoming free agents and winding up wear­ing another club’s colors. 
“It’d be different, that’s for sure. I think when you think about guys like Mo, Jeet, you always think of them as Yankees,” Girardi said. “There’s certain guys, you expect to see them in one uniform.” 
Jeter didn’t offer any indi­cation of what he might be looking for in a new contract. He also said he’s given no thought to how it might affect his legacy if he did not spend his entire career with the Yankees. 
“I can’t think about what’s going to happen after this year. You don’t think about what legacy you have when you’re still playing. That’s something you consider when your career is over,” he said. 
“My desire is to stay here. I haven’t thought about ... how much money (I) want because we haven’t sat down to nego­tiate anything. That hasn’t crossed my mind. That’s not what I play for. I play in order to try to help this team win. That’s what I’ve always done. My feeling is everything else will take care of itself.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Texas says it likes Big 12, has not spoken with Big Ten 
Dodds said Texas would be a the last team to join in 1990, Dodds said. with all kinds of things. The Big 
Associated Press 

natural target for any league and Notre Dame rejected an He said there have been no 12 has brought us stability, kept 
AUSTIN, Texas — The because of the school’s strong offer in 1999. talks between the Texas and the Texas kids in Texas,” he said. University of Texas likes its posi-academics, athletics and the Earlier this month, specula-Big Ten. He said the Big 12 has “All the sports have been good tion in the Big 12 Conference power to draw a large television tion on possible targets focused been a good fit for the to us. We’ve built up some good and has not talked with the Big audience. But Texas and the Big on Texas, which has one of the Longhorns since the conference rivalries. It’s been good for us,” Ten about its expansion plans, 12 are good for each other, wealthiest athletic programs in started in 1996 with the mem-Dodds said. athletic director DeLoss Dodds Dodds said, adding “It’s work-the country and is a major bers of the old Big Eight and Even if another school were to said Wednesday. ing. I like it.” research university with a huge four members of the old leave the Big 12, Dodds said he 
Dodds spoke with The The Big Ten announced in alumni base surrounded by Southwest Conference. believes the remaining members Associated Press on Wednesday December it would explore some of the larger television “I think it’s been a great con-would try to keep the confer-after recent speculation that the options for expansion to add a markets in the nation. ference for us and we’ve been ence intact by finding a replace-Longhorns program could be 12th school. The Big Ten also “We’re always going to be good for the conference. Before ment instead of seeing a domino courted by the Big Ten, which is looked at expansion in 1993, looked at. I don’t think that’s a the (Big 12), we were struggling effect of schools bolting for considering expanding. 1998 and 2003. Penn State was bad thing. That’s a good thing,” with recruiting and struggling other leagues. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Maggie Fitzgerald: She's tough, I  
FOR RENT  PERSONAL  WANTED: 3 hot studs to escort 3  Harry Callahan: I know what you're  can't go inside, I can't get close enough to hit her.  
stunning srs to Ryan Dome Dance  thinking. "Did he fire six shots or  Frankie Dunn: You know why that  
Off-Campus housing 2010-11 and  3/19/10. Have the charm, moves &  only five?" Well, to tell you the truth,  is?  
Faculty/grad students. 2 bdrm, 2.5  2011/12. Irish Crossings, Dublin  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  tolerance to keep up? We want  in all this excitement I kind of lost  Maggie Fitzgerald: Why?  
bath, LR, DR, FR, Florida room,  Village, Wexford Place. Also a few  not go it alone. Notre Dame has  your bad romance. Contact  track myself. But being as this is a  Frankie Dunn: Cause she's a better  
utility room. 2-car attached garage.  houses and Villas. Some furnished.  many resources in place to assist  mpb_87@hotmail.com  .44 Magnum, the most powerful  fighter than you are, that's why.  
Security system. Available now.  Call 574-298-4206. CES Property  you. If you or someone you love  handgun in the world, and would  She's younger, she's stronger, and  
262-332-0015. Shown by appt.  Management  needs confidential support or assis- If you or someone you care about  blow your head clean off, you've got  she's more experienced. Now, what  
1616 E. Colfax.  tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at  has been sexually assaulted, we  to ask yourself one question: Do I  are you gonna do about it?  
1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For  can help. For more information, visit  feel lucky? Well, do ya, punk?  Maggie Fitzgerald: [Next round  
gradrentals.viewwork.com  more information, visit ND's web  Notre Dame's website:  starts. Maggie knocks her out in few  
site:  http.csap.nd.edu  seconds]  
http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, February 25, 2010 
page 15 

Men’s Division I Indoor Track & Field USTFCCCA Poll 
team previous 
1 Texas A&M 1 2 Oregon 2 3 LSU 3 4 Florida 4 5 Arizona State 5 6 Arkansas 6 7 Indiana 7 8 Nebraska 8 9 Texas Tech 9 10 Baylor 10 11 Penn State 11 12 Oklahoma 16 13 Florida State 12 14 Stanford 13 15 Virgina Tech 15 16 Auburn 14 17 Minnesota 17 18 Arizona 18 19 Northern Arizona NR 20 Ohio State 24 21 Alabama 20 22 New Mexico 19 23 Kentucky 21 24 California 22 25 Georgia 23 
Men’s Division I Wrestling NWCA/USA Today Poll 
team previous 
1 Iowa 1 
2 Iowa State 2 
3 Ohio State 3 
4 Oklahoma State 4 
5 Minnesota 5 
6 Cornell 6 
7 Lehigh 7 
8 Oklahoma 8 
9 Maryland 9 
10 Penn State 10 
11 Boise State 11 
12 Central Mich. 12 
13 Indiana 13 
14 Wisconsin 14 
15 Oregon State 15 
16 Kent State 16 
17 Pittsburgh 18 
18 Missouri 17 
19 Virginia Tech 19 
20 Cal Poly 20 
21 Purdue 23 
22 Rutgers 22 
23 Illinois 21 
24 Virginia 24 
25 Wyoming NR 


around the dial 
Olympic Women’s Hockey 
United States vs. Canada 
3:30 p.m., NBC 

NCAA Men’s Basketball 
South Carolina at Kentucky 9 p.m., ESPN 
OLYMPICS 


Vonn crashes and breaks right pinkie 
Associated Press 
WHISTLER, British Columbia — Lindsey Vonn crashed and failed to finish the first run of the fog-shrouded Olympic giant slalom race Wednesday and broke her right pinkie. It was undecided if she would run her final event at the Vancouver Games later in the week. 
Vonn lost control around a right turn in the middle sec­tion of the course, got twist­ed around, landed hard on her left hip and crashed backward into the safety netting. 
“The course is breaking up at the bottom,” Vonn said, holding ice on her finger, adding that her back and shin were hurting, too. “I got a little bit too inside and lost my outside ski. My knee came up and hit my chin. … I don’t know honestly how I hurt my hand. 
“I’m just a little bit beat up right now,” added Vonn, who also fell in the slalom leg of the super-combined last week. “Things don’t seem to be quite going my way.” 
After being checked course-side for a few min­utes, Vonn got up and skied down to the finish. 
“I was like a pretzel — so tangled up,” Vonn said. 
Dr. Jim Moeller, chief med­ical officer for the U.S. Olympic team, said Vonn had a non-displaced fracture of the proximal phalanx of the small finger—where the 
IN BRIEF 
For Red Sox, playoffs, not 
Series, season’s focus 
FORT MYERS, Fla. — To Boston Red Sox owner John Henry, the team’s goal for the 2010 season is the same as always. That means making the playoffs, rather than focusing on winning the World Series. 
“I’ve never thought that way,” Henry said Wednesday. “If we make the playoffs, we’re going to win at some point in the postseason. We’ve been fortunate to do that twice.” 
“It’s tough to predict what’s going to happen in a short series. A good team can easily lose to an inferior team in a short series. So our goal really is to make the playoffs and to try to win,” he said. 
The Red Sox, champions in 2004 and 2007, were swept out of the first round of the playoffs last year by the Los Angeles Angels. 
Boston hosts the major league opener on April 4 against the cham­pion New York Yankees. 

pinkie connects to the hand. He said Vonn, who won the downhill and was third in the super-G despite nursing a badly bruised right shin the entire Olympics, had not decided if she will race in Friday’s final women’s event, the slalom. 
The second run of the giant slalom was postponed later Wednesday until Thursday because fog made it impossible to see the course. 
American Julia Mancuso was the next skier down the mountain after Vonn and had to pull up midway through her run because her teammate was still being tended to on the side of the course. 
Mancuso, the defending champion in giant slalom, ended up 18th after starting the opening leg again and was visibly angry over the disruption. 
While giant slalom is usu­ally Vonn’s worst event, she had posted the fastest split times until her crash. 
“I was hoping for some­thing today,” Vonn said. “I was charging, I was skiing hard. I’m disappointed in myself now that I made that mistake. I can only keep smiling. I know I was skiing well.” 
Vonn had a difficult start­ing position, 17th, but was 
0.35 second ahead of the pace by first-run leader Elisabeth Goergl of Austria at the third split, just before the crash. 
White Sox not happy with 
Guillen’s Twitter activity 
GLENDALE, Ariz. — Ozzie Guillen’s already going to star in a reality series starting in July. Now the color­ful manager of the Chicago White Sox has a Twitter account and his general manager Ken Williams is not happy about it. 
Guillen, Williams and Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf will shoot segments for the MLB Network reality show ‘The Club’ this spring. That had already prompted concern about the talkative Guillen and his often salty language. 
Now Guillen’s added another forum to express his many opinions on many topics. 
Guillen said his tweets will be per­sonal and not a way to tell fans what’s going on with the White Sox or a way to break news. Still, it appears to be a dangerous device for a man­ager who’s gotten in plenty of trouble over the years with his comments. 

NFL declines to punish 
Oakland Raiders’ Cable 
ALAMEDA, Calif. — Oakland Raiders coach Tom Cable will not be punished by the NFL after an investigation into allegations of domestic violence against women and a fight with an assistant coach. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said Wednesday that Cable’s role in the training camp altercation with assistant Randy Hanson warranted an evaluation under the league ’s personal conduct policy. 
Cable was accused of breaking Hanson’s jaw and teeth during a fight at the team’s training camp hotel in August. The Napa County district attorney declined to file criminal charges in the case because of inconsistencies in Hanson ’s story. Because there were no criminal charges, the league did not punish Cable. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 25, 2010 
OLYMPICS 

U.S. gets past Swiss, will play in semifnals 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — The longer it went, the tighter the Americans got. 
They clanged shots off the post, then the crossbar. A wrist shot early in the game by Phil Kessel that looked like a bad omen hit both. Everything else the U.S. hockey team threw on net Wednesday, Swiss goalie Jonas Hiller smothered. 
But Zach Parise put all that frustration aside, deflecting a wrist shot from Brian Rafalski early in the third period, then scored into an empty net late to seal a 2-0 quarterfinal win that sends the U.S. to the next round against the winner of Wednesday night’s game between the Czech Republic and Finland. 
“Relief and excitement, espe­cially in a tight game like that when you are doing everything but score,” said Parise, who failed to score on his first 13 shots of the tournament. “The goalie was great and we did a good job of sticking with it. “We were pretty confident and said just keep putting pucks at him.” 
Ryan Miller made 19 saves to backstop the victory and move the Americans within two wins of its first men’s hockey gold medal in 30 years. 
For a while, though, there was a chance their stirring 5-3 win over Canada on Sunday might go for naught. U.S. gener­al manager Brian Burke said he wasn’t happy with his team’s play through the preliminary round, and cautioned that the Americans had to improve quickly if they hoped to make a run. 
He was right. Only the chal­lenge came from the lightly regarded Swiss and not from tournament favorites Canada, Russia or defending Olympic champion Sweden. 
The wait for production from the top scoring line ended just in time. 
“I thought after the first two or three games I could play bet­ter. I knew I would,” said Parise, who had no goals and three assists in the opening three games. “It’s always nice to get rewarded. I just kept wanting to keep shooting.” 
In front of a full crowd that traded chants for each team, Hiller gave the Swiss a chance to pull off the upset by making 42 saves. He had stymied Parise several times earlier, but could-n’t keep the New Jersey Devils star down all the way. 
Parise, the top-line forward who struck posts with two other shots, got a stick on Rafalski’s shot and bounced it off the mask and arm of Hiller before the puck sneaked past his pad and inside the left post 2:08 into the third. The goal came 12 sec­onds into a power play. 
He then sealed the win by scoring into an empty net with 
11.2 seconds left. The U.S. has earned two of its four wins in these games against Switzerland, including a tourna­ment-opening 3-1 victory last Tuesday. 
Switzerland seemed to tire as the game wore on. The upstarts, who forced Canada to a shootout in the prelims, reached the quarters with another tiebreaker win over Belarus on Tuesday. Switzerland was forced to play past regulation in its previous three games. 
Despite only two regular NHL players, the Swiss were gallant in longtime coach Ralph Krueger’s last Olympics. Switzerland finished sixth four years ago in the Turin Games and was looking for its best showing in Canada. 
“We had high expectations,” the teary-eyed Hiller said, his voice cracking. “We knew we had a solid team and we can upset some of the big ones and that’s what we tried to do. I wish we could have upset them a little more. 
“It’s always tough to lose, but losing in the quarterfinals in the Olympics and being that close, it definitely hurts. I am quite dis­appointed right now.” 
Until Parise scored, the signa­ture moment in this one was a near goal the U.S. thought it scored to break the deadlock with less than one second left in the middle period. 
Ryan Kesler‘s shot struck Hiller’s blocker and popped in the air. The Anaheim Ducks goalie swatted it with his stick and deflected it off his shoulder before it fell behind him. 
The puck tantalizingly slid onto the goal line and toward the net as the clock struck 0.0. A video replay confirming no goal sent the pro-Swiss crowd into jubilation as the teams headed to the dressing rooms. 
“I thought I scored,” Kesler said “I thought it was in and we were going into the locker room up 1-0 but apparently the time ran out and I wasn’t lucky enough. I knew there wasn’t much time left and I just tried to throw it on net to generate a rebound and it happened to find the back of the net a half-sec­ond too late.” 
A wild sequence in the third had both teams believing they had scored. 
At 3:40, Sandy Jeannin sent a wide-angled shot that appeared to beat Miller inside the right post. The red light came on, but play continued. Before the next whistle, Ryan Suter fired a shot past Hiller. That goal was disal­lowed because of a high-sticking penalty against teammate Ryan Kesler. 
Even with the benefit of three power plays in the second peri­od, the U.S. couldn’t forge much of an attack. The Americans’ best scoring chances came at even strength, but when they wound up for drives in good areas many of their shots were blocked before they got to Hiller. 
“I haven’t seen that for a long time, even in the NHL,” defense-man Tim Gleason said. “Guys are laying down left and right. That’s good to see and you hope they get right back up. Guys are getting their nose dirty, and that’s what wins championships and medals.” 
The Swiss were content to clog the middle and contest every pass and each puck carri­er as he tried to get into the offensive zone. Bobby Ryan rushed toward the blue line before being upended with a hip check by Mathias Seger that flipped him with 5:15 left in the second. 
“We waited and waited and waited, and I guess we waited them out,” Gleason said. “We got a little antsy … you want to do it yourself and you get frus­trated.” 
NFL 

Tomlinson says farewell 
Associated Press 
POWAY, Calif. — LaDainian Tomlinson bid an emotional farewell to San Diego, then looked toward a future that he hopes will include an elusive Super Bowl title. 
“It’s definitely sad to leave, but I’m excited, as well, about the future,” Tomlinson said during a press conference Wednesday. The Chargers released him Monday after a mostly brilliant nine-year run in which he became one of the greatest run­ning backs in NFL history. 
Tomlinson thanked the fans; his teammates throughout the years; the Chargers, for giving him a chance; and lastly, his pregnant wife, LaTorsha, who was sitting to his right in a ball­room at a suburban golf course. 
L.T., who always seemed to be in control, whether it was on a dazzling, slashing run, or going airborne over a pile of bodies into the end zone, began to choke up. He needed a few min­utes to compose himself. 
“Sorry,” he said, as he fought back tears. “It’s probably because I was all prepared and said I wasn’t going to do this. Sometimes emotions are what makes a person and as you guys know, I’ve always worn my emo­tions on my sleeve.” 
Had Tomlinson won a Super Bowl title or two with the Chargers, he may very well have been announcing his retirement. 
He didn’t even make it to a Super Bowl, though, and said he plans to keep pursuing his goal with whichever team will give him a chance. 
As Chargers fans remain painfully aware, some of their biggest stars have been tossed aside and found success else­where. Tomlinson said he recently spoke with Super Bowl MVP Drew Brees, who less than three weeks ago led the New Orleans Saints to their first NFL title. Tomlinson and Brees were acquired with the Chargers’ first two picks in the 2001 draft. 
He also mentioned learning the ways of the NFL early in his career from defensive stars Junior Seau and Rodney Harrison. Harrison went on to win two Super Bowls with New England. Seau came close before the Patriots were upset by the New York Giants in the Super Bowl following the 2007 season. 
“I’m very excited about the future and the opportunity that’s ahead,” Tomlinson said. “I’ve always said my No. 1 goal is to win the championship, so it gives me, I guess, confidence and relief to know guys have gone on to win championships. 
“This is not the end of the road at all. I’m not retiring. So I am very excited. I really believe I am going to have that opportu­nity to win a championship.” 
Tomlinson thinks he still has a lot left, and that he can play for as many as four more seasons. 
He said the Chargers didn’t give him an explanation for his release, and really didn’t need to. He appreciated being let go this week so his agent, Tom Condon, could look for a job for him during the NFL combine. Condon said he has several meetings set up during the next five or six days. 
Injuries and age were taking their toll, and Tomlinson was due a $2 million roster bonus early next month, which all but guaranteed he would be cut loose, as well as a $5 million salary for 2010. 


Tomlinson ranks eighth on the NFL’s all-time rushing list with 12,490 yards. His 138 career rushing touchdowns rank sec­ond, and his 153 total touch­downs rank third. 
Tomlinson, who turned 30 last summer, was injured early in the 2009 season and finished with 730 yards on 223 carries for an average of 3.3 yards per carry, all career lows. He became less and less the face of the franchise as his role was reduced in a pass-happy offense. 
“I don’t want to blame it on the system or anything else,” he said. “I don’t know. But what I do know is that when I’ve been given the opportunity, I’ve had the people around me that can run the football, I’ve been suc­cessful at doing it. I think my track record speaks for itself. I’m a guy that still works very hard and really can do anything out of the backfield. I think that’s maybe something that teams are looking for. I just want an oppor­tunity. I’m like a guy coming into the league again. I just want an opportunity to prove that I can play.” 
NBA 

Miller leads Blazers over Toronto 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Andre Miller had 18 points, 10 assists and seven rebounds, Brandon Roy scored 20 points, and the Portland Trail Blazers beat the Toronto Raptors 101-87 on Wednesday night. 
Rudy Fernandez scored 17 points, Jerryd Bayless had 11 and Juwan Howard 10 for the Trail Blazers, who won their second straight to open a five-game road trip that will also take them to Chicago, Minnesota and Memphis. 
Hedo Turkoglu scored 24 points, Jarrett Jack had 18 and Andrea Bargnani added 15 as the Raptors failed to top 100 points, ending a 20­game streak that began Jan. 6 at Orlando. Toronto went 14-6 in that span. 
Amir Johnson had 10 points and eight rebounds for the Raptors. 
Both teams were missing starters. Toronto’s Chris Bosh sat out for the third straight game with a sprained left ankle and was replaced by Rasho Nesterovic. Howard started for Portland in place of Marcus Camby, who left Tuesday’s win at New Jersey with a sprained right ankle. 
Turkoglu had seven quick points but picked up his third foul just over three minutes in and headed to the bench. The offense stalled without him, and six Toronto turnovers and eight points from Roy helped Portland take a 32-24 lead after one. 
Toronto called timeout after Roy’s corner 3 made it 51-34 with 3:33 left in the second, but closed the half on a 13-4 run, capped by a 3 from Turkoglu, to make it 53-47 at the break. 
Miller scored six points in the third and Bayless and Fernandez each added five as Portland overcame nine points from Jack to pull away again, taking a 78-68 lead into the fourth. 
With the game going at the same time as Canada’s Olympic hockey showdown against Russia, the announced crowd was 16,161 at Air Canada Centre, but there were empty seats in every section. Many watched the hockey live in stadium bars, restaurants and suites, and there were noticeable cheers each time Canada scored and some boos after Russian goals. The screens on the main score­board switched to hockey after the basketball game finished. 

Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Mariners’ Lee back on mound after surgery 

Associated Press 
PEORIA, Ariz. — Cliff Lee took a step in the right direc­tion Wednesday. 
The Seattle Mariners lefty completed his first bullpen session of spring training without any problems with his left foot, which needed sur­gery almost three weeks ago to remove a bone spur. 
“It wasn’t as sharp as I would like, but it’s the first time I’ve been off the mound in a little while, so I guess that’s to be expected,” Lee said after 10 minutes of pitch­ing and a conditioning run. “I feel good. The foot’s fine. The body feels good, so now I need to get in shape and get off the mound more and catch up with everyone else.” 
Lee reported to Mariners camp a week ago with a band­age wrapped around his foot, even though he said he was ready to pitch. The Mariners took precautions, limiting Lee, a former AL Cy Young Award winner whom they traded for with Philadelphia in the off­season, to agility drills and fielding practice. 
The 31-year-old Lee said he threw all of his pitches and wasn’t thinking about his foot. He was focused on locating fastballs, having only thrown off a mound once in the off­season before he needed sur­gery. 
“I was pretty certain when I first got here, I could jump right in with everyone, but it was kind of a better safe than sorry approach at that point,” Lee said. 
He’ll toss another session in a couple of days with the hope that he’ll be ready for the rotation in spring training games. The other Seattle pitchers have been pitching from a mound since last week. 
“Once I get going, I’ll catch up. It’s still way early,” Lee said. “There’s a lot of teams that haven’t even really start­ed going full tilt yet, so look­ing at it that way, I guess I’m not that far behind.” 
Meanwhile at Mariners camp Wednesday, infielder Jose Lopez returned to his normal position — second base — after taking ground balls at third in the team’s first full-squad workout Tuesday. The Mariners said they were only taking a look at Lopez at third, with Chone Figgins working at second base. Both Lopez and Figgins, a free agent signed from the Los Angeles Angels, worked at second base Wednesday. 
Lopez, a 2006 AL All-Star, said he last played third base for the Mariners in 2007, for a few games. 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 25, 2010 
NCAA BASKETALL 

West, Thompson to enter collegiate hall 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY — Christian Laettner won two national titles, an Olympic gold and played 12 seasons in the NBA. 
To this day, all anyone wants to talk about is The Shot — March 28, 1992, NCAA East Regional final at the Spectrum in Philadelphia. Laettner catch­es a long inbounds pass with the clock nearly expired, turns and shoots, and sends Duke to a win over Kentucky and on to a national championship. 
“People always approach me and ask about that game, every day of the year, especially when it comes tournament time,” Laettner said. “It’s crazy, but I don’t mind it. It’s better than ‘how’s the weather up there?”’ 
Laettner joined UCLA star Sidney Wicks, West Virginia sharpshooter Jerry West and high-flying North Carolina State All-American David Thompson among the eight members of the National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame’s 2010 class announced on Wednesday. 
Triangle offense innovator Tex Winter, Alcorn State coach Davey Whitney, NCAA execu­tive vice president Tom Jernstedt and former Big Eight and Big Ten commissioner Wayne Duke also will be inducted on Nov. 21 in Kansas City. 
“What an amazing class,” said Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, chair the National Association of Basketball Coaches. 
West and Thompson are the marquee names. 
They’ll be recognized as founding members of the colle­giate hall after being inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. Previous founding members of the collegiate hall include Larry Bird and Magic Johnson last year, Charles Barkley the year before and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar in 2007. 
Before he became the figure in the NBA logo, West was a three-time All-American at West Virginia, where he led the Mountaineers to three straight NCAA tournament berths, including a trip to the 1959 title game. He averaged 29.3 points and 16.5 rebounds as a senior and went on to co-captain the 1960 U.S. Olympic gold medal team before 14 All-Star seasons with the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Thompson was one of the best college players of all time, a superb leaper and shooter who was twice the national player of the year and a three-time All-American. He helped the Wolfpack beat John Wooden’s dynastic UCLA Bruins in the national semifinals on the way to the 1974 NCAA championship and was the Naismith player of the year as a senior after turning down an offer to play professionally. 
“There’s an argument that he may be the best college player ever,” Krzyzewski said. “Certainly, in our conference, many, many people would give him that vote.” 
Laettner led the Blue Devils to four straight Final Four berths and won national cham­pionships his final two seasons, in 1991 and 1992. He was the most outstanding player of the Final Four as a junior and the national player of the year as a senior, when he hit that shot against Kentucky. 
Wicks played on three of Wooden’s national champi­onship teams at UCLA (1969­
71) and was named most out­standing player of the Final Four as a junior. The 6-foot-8 forward led the Bruins in scor­ing and rebounding each of his final two years and went on to play 10 seasons in the NBA. 
Winter is credited with creat­ing the triangle offense that has helped Phil Jackson win 10 NBA titles with the Chicago Bulls and Los Angeles Lakers. Before that, Winter coached five college programs, includ­ing a 15-year stint at Kansas State, where he was named the national coach of the year in 1959. 
Whitney, a former Negro Leagues baseball player, won 711 games in 35 years as a coach, including 27 at Alcorn State. He led the school to a berth in the 1979 NIT, making it one of the first historically black colleges to receive an invite, and took the Braves to the NCAA tournament four times. 
“In Dave Whitney and Tex Winter, you have two coaches who have contributed so much to the game,” Krzyzewski said. 
Duke was the first employee hired by NCAA executive direc­tor Walter Byers in 1952 and wrote the first manuals for the basketball tournament and College World Series. He also began compilation of the NCAA record books and served as a member of the NCAA men’s basketball committee from 1975-81, when the tournament expanded twice. 
Jernstedt spent 38 years with the NCAA, first as director of special events, later as chief operating officer and executive vice president. He was instru­mental in the NCAA tourna­ment expanding its field, size and scope of venues and rev­enues from marketing and broadcast rights. 
MLB 

Brother injected McGwire 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Jay McGwire heard big brother Mark say last month he only took steroids to heal, and not to get stronger. That doesn’t match Jay McGwire’s recol­lection. 
“Mark knew that he was going to get the strength and endurance and size. I know that the main motive to justi­fy taking steroids was heal­ing,” Jay McGwire said in an interview with The Associated Press. “I know that for a fact. But in the long run he knew the strength and the size and endurance will increase. I ularly in 1994 and set him up with a supplier. He says Mark regularly used an array of drugs through 1996 that included Deca-Durabolin, human growth hormone, Dianabol, Winstrol and Primobolan. McGwire later used androstenedione, a steroid precursor that wasn’t banned by baseball until 2004, when it became a con­trolled substance. 
Jay McGwire, a former bodybuilder who turns 40 on May 5, said he was intro­duced to steroids by friends in 1989, beginning with pills of Anavar. He says his broth­er only gave in to using steroids after 
don’t know “I guarantee it. an injury filled why he’s com-1993 season. 
Athlete are still using
ing across that “Somewhere it was all heal-something.” in the course of ing.” a conversation 
Estranged between broth-
Jay McGwire 
from his ers, baseball 
Mark McGwire’s brother 
brother for 
eight years because of a family dispute, Jay McGwire has gone public in “Mark and Me: Mark McGwire and the Truth Behind Baseball’s Worst-Kept Secret,” which is scheduled for publication Monday by TriumphBooks. 
“He knows his game went to the next level because his body went to the next level,” Jay McGwire said. “He knows. The body, the before and after pictures, are amaz­ing.” 
When he finally admitted last month that he used steroids, after he was hired as hitting coach of the St. Louis Cardinals, Mark McGwire said it was only to help him get through injuries. 
“I knew if he stayed healthy, Mark would hit a lot of home runs, but I didn’t know he’d hit 70,” Jay McGwire said, referring to his brother’s record-setting total in 1998, when he shattered Roger Maris’ 61 in 1961. 
Jay McGwire says in the book he persuaded his broth­er to start using steroids reg history was 
changed,” Jay 
McGwire wrote. 
“I was the one who convinced him to do it. Mark wouldn’t trust anyone else. My heart told me that I was simply trying to help a brother in need. ... In addi­tion to the healing prospects I saw ahead for Mark, I saw in him a blank canvas. I pic­tured what a beast he could become with the proper training, and I wanted to use my expertise to help create a masterpiece.” 
Jay McGwire stopped using steroids in 1996 after he became suicidal. He realized his mood swings and rage, and he found religion. “It’s just bad news. At the end of the run, it’s just not good,” he said. “It’s like any other drug. Once you depend on it, it’s the ball and chain of your life. As an athlete, people use that as a crutch to get through stuff. It’s overwhelm­ing, the temptation.” 
Jay McGwire, who opened McGwire’s Fitness in Ontario, Calif., this month, thinks HGH has replaced steroids among some players. 
“I guarantee it. Athletes are still using something. They don’t have drug-testing for that, so they’re going to use that,” Jay McGwire said. “Now is HGH as powerful as the heavy testosterones out there? No, but HGH will help you recover faster, when it comes down to breaking down muscles and to put on lean muscle mass over time. It makes you just feel better when you’re on HGH.” 
The brothers fell out after Jay McGwire’s stepson, Eric, tickled Mark and caused Mark to spill coffee on him­self. Mark then swatted Eric on the backside. Jay’s wife, 
Francine , then refuse d  to  
attend Mark’s wedding.  
Ev en  a  wr it te n  l et ter  of  
apolo gy  fr om  M ar k  to  

Francine didn’t end the rift. 
“It’s sad on both ends. I just can’t believe something like that would keep us apart,” Jay McGwire said. “Maybe he’s just written me off. It’s sad that it happened that way. I hope some day that this could all be past us.” 



Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NFL 

NFL hopes to test for HGH 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The NFL hopes to start testing players for human growth hormone, and Major League Baseball has started talks with its union to investigate the test that led to the suspension of a British rugby player. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said Wednesday that the league had made a proposal to its players in January regarding HGH. Discussions are ongoing, he said. 
“Our position is that HGH testing has advanced to the point where we are taking steps to incorporate it into our program,” Aiello said. “We have proposed it to the union.” 
The NFLPA’s player devel­opment director, Stacy Robinson, said in a statement that the union “has support­ed research to find a suitable test that will detect sustained HGH use.” 
“We believe in and collec­tively bargained for a system that supports the testing of all banned substances,” he said. 
The NFL has used presea­son blood tests since at least 2006 for cholesterol and tryglycerates. Baseball has had urine testing since 2003 but not blood testing. 
“We have previously said that if a scientifically validat­ed blood test for HGH is available, we would consider its utilization,” new baseball players’ association head Michael Weiner said. “But a single uncontested positive does not scientifically vali­date a test. There remains debate in the testing commu­nity about the scientific validity of this test.” 

The issue of HGH testing has gained renewed interest in the wake of the United Kingdom Anti-Doping author­ity announcing a two-year ban Monday for rugby player Terry Newton, saying he had tested positive and become the first athlete suspended for using HGH. 
The substance is believed by some to hasten healing but there is still a debate over whether it increases strength. 
A blood test for HGH has been in existence since the 2004 Athens Olympics and available in the U.S. since 2008, according to United States Anti-Doping Agency executive director Travis Tygart. 
Tygart said the test was available to professional leagues, but only through World Anti-Doping Agency labs. 
“It’s one that’s been well-vetted, well-discussed,” he said by telephone from London. “Further research has been done to get it to a point where it’s scientifically valid, and we’re happy to help any entity that’s inter­ested in having an effective test, whether we’re involved with their program or not, getting them comfortable with the validity of the sci­ence.” 
While MLB can institute blood tests for players on minor league rosters, it must reach an agreement with the players’ association to start blood testing for unionized players on 40-man big league rosters. 
“We are well aware of the important news with respect to the HGH blood test in England,” Major League Baseball said in a statement. “We are consulting with our experts concerning immedi­ate steps for our minor league drug program and next steps for our major league drug program. The commissioner remains com­mitted to the position that we must act aggressively to deal with the issue of HGH.” 
Tygart said the window for detecting HGH through the test is three days at the most, making it most useful for out-
of-competition testing. According to Weiner, it may be even shorter. 
“Even those who vouch for the science behind the test acknowledge that it can detect use only for a day or so prior to collection,” he said. 
Baseball began random urine testing for players on minor league rosters in 2001 and reached an agreement the following year to start testing unionized major lea­guers. 
“I’d prefer urine testing. It’s easier, especially for peo­ple who are afraid of nee­dles,” said infielder Josh Vitters, the Chicago Cubs‘ top draft pick in 2007. 
Outfielder Brett Jackson, Chicago’s No. 1 pick last year, understands why the minor leaguers might get tested first. 
“We’re guinea pigs for almost everything else,” he said, “so why not?” 


OLYMPICS 

Canada routs Russia, advances to semifnals 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — A dominating Canada ended 50 years of Olympic hockey frustration against Russia. 
The Canadians got a goal and two assists from Dan Boyle during a take-charge first period to beat the world champions 7-3 Wednesday and surge into the Olympic semifinals. 
A superpower showdown — one that may have been better suited for the gold-medal game than the quarterfinals 
— quickly became a super let­down. 
The physical, focused Canadians took advantage of terrible goaltending by Evgeni Nabokov and superior depth and size to open leads of 3-0 and 4-1 in the first period and 6-1 early in the second period, and the unexpected rout was on. 
The resurgent Canadians meet the Sweden-Slovakia winner in Friday’s semifinals. If they advance, they might face the United States in a rematch of the 5-3 loss on Sunday. 
That disappointment marked their first Olympic loss to the U.S. since 1960; the punishing win over Russia was their first since the same tournament in Squaw Valley and only the second in 11 Olympic games against the Russians or Soviets. 
Long before it was over, fans began chanting, “We Want Sweden,” just as they had asked for Russia the day before. After that, it was “We want gold.” 
On this day, Canada got all it wanted. 
Corey Perry upstaged Russia’s big-name, big-con­tract forwards with two goals, Shea Weber also scored and set the tone by upending Maxim Afinogenov with a board-rattling hit in the open­ing seconds and Ryan Getzlaf had a goal and two assists. And Boyle frustrated Nabokov, his NHL teammate, by scoring a power-play goal and creat­ing two others. 
And that was only the start. 
Almost as surprising as the score was how Canada pulled it off. Sidney Crosby went scoreless in a subordinate role, with less celebrated players and grit negating Russia’s cast of stars and sup­posedly superior speed. 
Nabokov, whose NHL San Jose Sharks are perennial playoff underachievers, allowed several soft goals early, one to Patrick Marleau, and the letdown was evident on a downcast Russian bench. 
Coach Slava Bytov didn’t pull Nabokov until Weber scored at 4:07 of the second to make it 6-1. Given the looks on the players’ faces, the move came about two or three goals too late. 
Russia, which beat Canada in each of the last two world championships, also seemed unprepared for Canada’s aggression. Within the first few minutes, Russia quickly learned that speed isn’t a fac­tor when stars are being knocked off their skates before they can advance into the offensive zone. 
Remarkably, almost none of the pregame story lines played out. The Canadians didn’t need a big game from Crosby, who was as quiet offensively as Ovechkin was, a huge game in goal from Roberto Luongo or a shutdown defensive per­formance. 
They simply needed to go back to playing traditional, get-tough, can’t-knock-us-off­the-puck Canada hockey. And it worked better than coach Mike Babcock could have envisioned. 
Luongo, who took over for a benched Martin Brodeur after the U.S. loss, gave up goals to Dmitri Kalinin, Afinogenov and Sergei Gonchar while making 25 saves, but didn’t need to be brilliant with all that was going on around him. 
Babcock kept rolling his four lines and relying upon his much bigger defensemen to push around Russia’s for ­wards — Evgeni Malkin and Alexander Semin were inef­fective, too — and discourage them from trying to find open lanes. 
Ovechkin, whose one­upmanship duels with Crosby keep getting better and better, was a surprising nonfactor. The word in the Russian camp 
— the players haven’t talked much — was that Ovechkin was determined to play one of the best games of his life. 
Instead, the two-time NHL MVP was about as invisible as hockey’s top offensive player can be after being upended twice in the first period, and his trademark big hits and end-to-end rushes were miss­ing. 
And Ovechkin’s braggadocio this week that Russia has the best of everything, especially hockey players? Just so much idle talk. 
Canadian TV channels have aired for months a Sid the Kid vs. Alexander the Great spe­cial featuring the anticipated star showdown. Yet neither player — and who would have predicted this — had a point during a 10-goal game. When they last met in the NHL on Feb. 7, Ovechkin scored three goals and Crosby had two. 
Instead, Rick Nash and Brenden Morrow also scored during the kind of dominating first period that Canada didn’t seem capable of playing as it lost to the U.S. and nearly lost to Switzerland in its first three games. Those games caused a nervous nation to fear its beloved team wouldn’t make it to the medal round. 
Now, it’s the two -time defending world champion Russians who will leave the Olympics without a medal for the second successive games. 
Russia lost in the bronze-medal game in Turin and has­n’t won an Olympics under the Russian name since the Soviet Union breakup, although a 1992 gold won by the Unified Team is now recognized as a Russian gold. 
If Canada goes on to win the gold medal, this dominating victory — which occurred on the eighth anniversary of its 2002 gold-medal victory over the U.S. in Salt Lake City — is likely to be mentioned with its 1972 Summit Series and 1987 Canada Cup triumphs over the Soviets. 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 25, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Struggling Texas gets important win over Oklahoma St. 
Baylor keeps good season going against Texas A&M; Miss. St. tops Alabama; Purdue wins nailbiter over Minnesota 
Wednesday night. 
Associated Press 
Texas A&M (19-8, 8-5 Big 12) 

AUSTIN, Texas — Dexter had cut what was a 13-point Pittman had 16 points and eight deficit to one when Donald Sloan rebounds and free-falling No. 21 hit a 3-pointer from the left corner Texas got a much-needed 69-59 with just over 4 minutes left. win over Oklahoma State on Dunn then hit a 3 from the top Wednesday night. of the key, a ball that bounced off 
Pittman made all five of his field the rim several times before final-goals and scored nine points in a ly falling through to make it 62­key run in the second half to push 58. That was Baylor’s first field the Longhorns (22-6 8-5 Big 12) to goal since Dunn’s floater in traffic just their fifth win in 11 games gave the Bears (21-6, 8-5) a 56-46 after a 17-0 start that saw them lead with 8:16 left. reach No. 1. B.J. Holmes hit another 3 for 
Damion James led Texas with A&M, but Dunn responded with 19 points. It was the first game for another of his own from the right Texas since losing starting point corner with 3:13 left. That was the guard Dogus Balbay for the sea-last of Dunn’s four 3-pointers. son with a knee injury. Justin Donald Sloan led Texas A&M Mason played a key role in hold-with 22 points. ing Big 12 scoring leader James The Aggies were within 67-66 in Anderson to 14 points. the final minute when Ray Turner 
Obi Muonelo scored 14 points made two free throws after being for Oklahoma State (19-8, 7-6). fouled by Ekpe Udoh, who had 
The Longhorns have now con-just had a turnover following secutive games for the first time in Sloan’s twisting baseline jumper. more than a month, and this one But Udoh made up for that guaranteed they will finish no when he rebounded a miss by worse than 8-8 in league play. teammate Tweety Carter, and 
For Pittman, it was the first time Dunn hit two free throws with 17 in weeks he was able establish seconds after being fouled on the himself as a force in the post. His same possession. 16 points was the most for him Sloan then missed what would since he had 21 in a win over have been a tying 3-pointer. Arkansas back on Jan. 5. Quincy Acy was fouled on the Dee Bost had 22 points, includ-The loss continues a slide for pair of three-point overtime 
The Cowboys had little to stop rebound with 2.2 seconds left, ing consecutive 3-pointers late, to Alabama, which has lost four of defeats on the road. him. On one early basket, an ill-then made one of his free throws. help Mississippi State win its five. Mikhail Torrance led the Tide “We see we got the ingredients timed defensive switch left 5-foot-Josh Loomers added 10 points fourth game in five contests. with 23 points, but scored just to beat ‘em. We just got to finish 9 Cowboys guard Keiton Page and seven rebounds for Baylor, Varnado broke Wojciech eight in the second half. Green fin-out,” said Damian Johnson, whose matched up against the 6-10, 290-while Udoh and Acy both had nine Mydra’s record of 535 career ished with 12 points, but was off-balance tip-in of Devoe pound Pittman under the basket. points. blocks, which the Louisiana-blocked three times by Varnado in Joseph’s miss at the buzzer came The big man easily won that bat-Bryan Davis had 14 points and Monroe center set from 1998-the second half. a split-second late. tle. 10 rebounds while B.J. Holmes 2002. He now has 142 this season Grant has three straight double-
Defensively, Mason and Avery had 11 points for Texas A&M, and 536 in his career. Purdue 59, Minnesota 58 digit scoring games off the bench Bradley applied the pressure on which had won five of six games With the crowd on its feet Robbie Hummel glumly after putting up only three in his Anderson, who had scored at least with a 78-71 victory over Baylor chanting Varnado’s nickname, watched Purdue play without him first 24 games. After he pulled up 30 points five times this season 2½ weeks ago. “Swat,” much of the way, he had in the second half, his palm barely for the go-ahead jumper, the but got little to fall when given lit-The 201st meeting between the six second-half blocks and used keeping his chin up with crutches Gophers brought the ball up and tle room to work against the schools located only about 90 his intimidating presence to help beside him on the bench. coach Tubby Smith took timeout Longhorns. Anderson shot 5 for miles apart and at different points the Bulldogs pull away. Keaton Grant and the rest of the — later blaming himself for not 
13. on the Brazos River was only the The 6-foot-9 center from Boilermakers gave their hurting calling it a second or two sooner. 
Oklahoma State made eight 3-second when both were in the Top Brownsville, Tenn., had blocks on star a finish to smile about, their Joseph dribbled to the corner pointers after making 14 in a win 25. The other was two years ago, consecutive Alabama possessions No. 3 national ranking a bit shaky and faked for an open jumper, but over Baylor in the previous game, when Baylor won 116-110 in five midway through the second half but first place in the Big Ten still it bounced off the rim. with just two after halftime. overtimes at College Station. to turn the momentum. The sec-in hand. “We feel that we’re talented 
James carried Texas early, scor-With only three games left in the ond, on JaMychal Green, was Grant’s jumper with 7.7 seconds enough to play with anyone,” ing 15 points to lead the regular season, Baylor and Texas pulled in by Ravern Johnson, who left lifted Purdue past Minnesota Smith said. “A play here, a play Longhorns to a 37-35 halftime A&M are tied with Texas for drove the length of the court and on Wednesday night, helping the there.” lead. A 3-pointer by Muonelo had fourth place in the Big 12. The top dunked to push the lead to 47-39 Boilermakers survive Hummel’s Sampson had 21 points and tied it before the Cowboys’ Jarred four teams in the standings get a with 12:18 left. first-half knee injury and a score-seven rebounds for the Gophers, Shaw fouled Pittman, then was first-round bye in the conference That was part of a 13-6 run that less stretch of more than 10 min-and a deafening crowd backed an whistled for a technical foul for tournaments. Varnado dominated. He had a utes that bridged the intermission. active Minnesota zone defense jawing with him. Texas made two Baylor surged ahead 52-39 with steal to set up Mississippi State’s “You’re not supposed to think with Sampson and fellow big man of the four free throws. 10-0 run in the second half. next basket and picked up a loose about it. You’re supposed to keep Colton Iverson clogging the lane 
Pittman controlled the first 10 Acy made a strong move inside ball for a dunk to give the going on,” said E’Twaun Moore, together. minutes of the second half, scor-to score over Ray Turner, then Bulldogs their biggest lead, 56-45 another part of Purdue’s standout The Gophers led by as many as ing nine of Texas’ first 12 points Carter made a bounce pass to with 9:17 left. He stopped a quick trio who wasn’t as effective. “But nine in the second half, with the and diverting shots on the other Dunn streaking wide open for a run with another dunk, but when one of your best players Boilermakers unable to get any end. layup before A.J. Walton and Fred Mississippi State couldn’t put goes down, you definitely be con-shots to fall. Moore, shooting bet-
After Oklahoma State had Ellis both hit 3-pointers. Alabama away. cerned. Hopefully, he’ll be all right ter than 50 percent in conference closed a six-point deficit to 44-42, Texas A&M was ahead for the The Crimson rallied with a 10-2 and he’ll come back.” play this season but 3 for 12 in Pittman thundered home his sec-first time since the opening run to make it 61-59 with 3:50 JaJaun Johnson had 14 points this game, hit the side of the back­ond dunk of the half and made a minute of the game when David left. That’s when Bost stepped up and 10 rebounds for Boilermakers board on one 3-point attempt in free throw for the three-point Loubeau picked up a loose ball with 3-pointers at 3:11 and 2:25, (24-3, 12-3), who won their 10th the second half. play. after a Udoh block and scored to then Ravern Johnson hit another straight and have a one-game It wasn’t until Johnson put in a 
When Texas lost Balbay for the make it 27-25 with just under 5 to make it 70-61 with 1:28 left. lead on Michigan State, which couple of turnarounds in the lane season, they also figured to be los-minutes left in the first half. That decisive Mississippi State plays at Purdue on Sunday. Ohio to cut the lead to 49-48 with 3:55 ing their best perimeter defender. But the Bears never trailed after run included a 3-pointer by Barry State is right between them in the left, putting the Boilermakers But Mason and Bradley were able the 6-foot-10 Udoh hit a 3-pointer Stewart, who hit two to break conference race. back in position to win and set up to lock down on Anderson for long from the top of the key to make it Darryl Wilson’s school record of “It’s hard to adjust on the fly, the tense final stretch. stretches, never letting him find 31-28 only 2:22 before halftime. 258. especially when a player means so After Moore’s layup gave his range or an open look at the Varnado and Stewart, co-cap-much to your team, but I thought Purdue the lead again, Lawrence basket Miss. St. 74, Alabama 66 tains who share the Mississippi it was kind of a gut check,” Westbrook hit a leaner with 25 
Bradley’s 3-pointer from the left Jarvis Varnado broke the State record for games played, Boilermakers coach Matt Painter seconds left to put the Gophers corner put Texas up 54-44 with NCAA’s career record for blocks were honored after the game with said, adding: “It showed a lot of back in front. Grant responded 
9:53 to play, the first double-digit and had 17 points and 10 much of the crowd staying behind character. with his pull-up jumper, skipping lead of the game. After Pittman hit rebounds to lead Mississippi State and chanting. Varnado’s parents Moore and Hummel each had back in celebration, and another tough basket in the lane, to a 20-win season with a victory were on the court for the celebra-11 points for the Boilermakers, Minnesota called timeout to set up a steal by Bradley let to an easy over Alabama on Wednesday tion. who ruined a career-best game by the last try. layup that put the Longhorns up night. There was plenty to celebrate. Minnesota’s Ralph Sampson III Purdue marked the highest-by 14. Varnado was two shy of his The reed-thin Varnado, playing and stuck the Gophers (16-11, 7-ranked foe the Gophers have 
third triple-double with eight without a scholarship in his final 8) with their third one-point loss faced in three years — since back-Baylor 70, Texas A&M 66 blocks for the Bulldogs (20-8, 8-5), year, is a fan favorite. Plus, the this season. The Spartans beat to-back losses to No. 3 Wisconsin 
LaceDarius Dunn had 23 points, who took a one-game lead in the win greatly improved Mississippi them here in eerily similar fashion and No. 2 Ohio State here at “The including consecutive 3-pointers Southeastern Conference’s State’s chances of an NCAA bid, last month, and another currently Barn” in February 2007. after Baylor had gone 4½ minutes Western Division with three though the Bulldogs play games at ranked team, Texas A&M, nipped Thanks to Sampson, they nearly without a field goal and a pair of games left. They also sent the South Carolina and Auburn before them in November. scored their first win here against late free throws, leading the No. Crimson Tide (14-13, 4-9) to its finishing off with No. 19 Eight of Minnesota’s losses are a top-five team since beating 24 Bears past No. 22 Texas A&M sixth straight road loss. Tennessee in Starkville. by eight points or less, including a Indiana in 1992. 

Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish dominating ranked opponents 
By JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writer 
The No. 7 Irish have been on a tear lately, and it did not stop Wednesday, as they swept No. 17 Ohio State 7-0. 
Irish sophomore Kristi Frilling continued on her hot streak, win­ning both her doubles and singles matches. Frilling is unbeaten this season, sitting at 9-0 in both dou­bles and singles and is ranked No. 23 in the country. Notre Dame as a team swept its doubles matches in taking the doubles’ point. 
It was an emphatic response by the Irish (8-1) to their biggest win in the program history, as last Sunday the team knocked off No. 1 Northwestern. But as big as Sunday’s win was, Wednesday’s might have been more impressive. 
“It’s a big deal for us [to beat Ohio State] after such a huge win,” assistant head coach Julia Scaringe said. “It’s easy to have a letdown, and Ohio State is not a team you want to play when you are tired. It was a very good per­formance.” 
It was the fifth straight win for the Irish. The one loss this year came against North Carolina on Jan. 31. At that point, the Irish had played solid tennis, but were still readjusting to being back on the court. 
“We had a lot of injuries during the fall, with a good part of our lineup out,” Scaringe said. “They barely practiced.” 
But since the loss, the girls have come out looking more poised than ever. 
“They’ve been working really hard, doing all the little things they can,” Scaringe said. 
After the North Carolina loss, the coaches tweaked a couple of the things in the doubles lineup, trying out different combinations of play­ers in No. 2 and No. 3 doubles. The Irish have responded nicely. 
“We were losing doubles points earlier in the season, but now things are starting to mesh and click,” Scaringe said. “Our doubles now are playing great. The new combinations have made a big dif­ference.” 
Now, the Irish look poised for their best season ever, which could only be accomplished by outper­forming last year’s team that was only ousted in the semifinals. For this year’s squad, Scaringe said it is a real possibility. 
“I think we are better than we were last year,” Scaringe said. “It’s all going to come down to the little things.” 
The Irish face No. 14 Georgia Tech Saturday in the Eck Pavilion. 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 
NBA 

Deng notches season-high 31 points in win over Pacers 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Luol Deng real­izes tougher tests are coming, that the schedule is about to take a difficult turn. If the Chicago Bulls keep this up, that would be just fine with him. 
Deng scored a season-high 31 points, and the Bulls pulled away for a wild 120-110 victory over the Indiana Pacers on Wednesday night after blowing an early 23-point lead. 
Derrick Rose added 23 points and eight assists while tying a season high with nine rebounds as the Bulls won for the seventh time in nine games. They’ve picked on weaker opponents during this run. That’s about to change, though. 
They meet Portland on Friday, and after closing out the month at Indiana on Saturday, March opens with this brutal stretch: Atlanta, Memphis, Dallas and Utah all at the United Center, then trips to Orlando, Miami, Memphis and Dallas before host­ing Cleveland. 
In other words: Ouch. 
“The schedule will get tough, but we’re confident in the team that we have,” Deng said. “When we play our best, we feel like we can play with anybody.” 
The Bulls were at their best in spurts on Wednesday. 
They led by 23 in the first quarter and were up 19 going into the second, only to watch it all disappear. Then, with a 58­54 halftime lead, they broke it open in the third and sent Indiana to its sixth loss in seven games. 
“In the first quarter, down by 23 — hard to do that on the road and come back and get a win,” Pacers coach Jim O’Brien said. “We came back in the second quarter but didn’t have what it took in the second half.” 
The Pacers’ Danny Granger finished with 20 points after missing Monday’s loss at Dallas for personal reasons. Brandon Rush hit 5-of-9 3-pointers and scored a season-high 21, includ­ing 12 in the second quarter as Indiana outscored Chicago 36­21 to get back into the game. 
Then, the Bulls pulled away again and stopped any flash­backs to their epic collapse against Sacramento in December, when they blew a 35­point lead and lost. 
This time, they got a reverse layup from Brad Miller and jumper from Rose to start the second half. A few minutes later, the Bulls went on a 12-3 run that Deng finished with a 3­pointer, making it 83-67 midway through the third and putting them in control to stay. 
“You should have seen (Deng) earlier,” Rose said. “He had a lot of Ben Gay and other stuff he was putting on his body. He looked like an old man, but he went out there and played through it.” 
Early on, this looked like another blowout at the United Center for Chicago, which had scored two of its most lopsided wins in its previous two home games. After tying a season high with a 33-point win over New York and beating Philadelphia by 32, Chicago opened by hitting 13-of-23 shots in one of its most prolific quarters. 
Deng scored 11 in the first, converting a three-point play and tip-in to start a 16-2 run that made it 35-12 and just about buried the Pacers. 
Turns out, they had plenty of life after all. 
The team that couldn’t hit early on shot its way back in the second, making 10-of-20 field goals after going 7 of 24 in the first quarter. 
Rush led the charge, nailing 4 of 5 3-pointers and connecting from the outside with two min­utes left in the half to tie it at 52. Dahntay Jones answered a jumper by Chicago’s Kirk Hinrich with two free throws to tie it again at 54 with 1:24 left, before a layup by Deng and jumper by Rose gave the Bulls a 58-54 halftime lead. 
“I took a lot of wide-open 3s and the guys were looking for me,” Rush said. “And they just happened to go in.” 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 25, 2010 
Pitcher 
continued from page 24 
mates. 
“They are the funniest group of girls and when I think of my best moments, I think of all the great things we accom ­plished togeth­er,” Valdivia I have never felt more confi­dent in my teammates than I do now, which makes our game stronger than ever.” 
Of course, life as a college athlete is never easy. But Valdivia is one player who knows she is lucky to be where she is and have all her 
hard work pay off. 
“It gets tiring running from classes to 

said. practices and 
“When I think of my
As a junior trying to fit so 
best moments, I think
on a team with many things only three sen-of all the great things into a few iors, Valdivia hours of the 
we accomplished
has stepped up day but I
together.” 
this year, as wouldn’t trade have her fel -it for anything. low team -Jody Valdivia I have been mates. In her given an 
Irish pitcher
mind, she said, the team this year is more united than ever, which makes each success and win a team accomplish­ment. 
“When you step on the field it is a great feeling to know there are 17 other girls there to pick you up and support you, ” Valdivia said. “Our team dynamics have never been in a better position and 


MIAA 
continued from page 24 
season. 
Verkaik leads the Knights in scoring with an average of 
18.4 points per game. She also leads the team in blocks, with 3.6 per game, and in rebounds with 9.5 per game. 
The Belles are not satisfied with simply focusing on the future and the experience the team is getting in the play­offs. Instead, they are focused on this year, even though the only senior on the team this 


Pitt 
continued from page 24 
“I think it was a team effort really,” Abromaitis said. “Everybody came out ready to guard their man, we were getting rebounds all night. I think we just came out ready to play.” 
A freshman guard Travon Woodall jump-shot with three minutes remaining in the first half finally cut the Irish lead down to four points, but Notre Dame opportunity to play for the greatest team and that has given me one 
of the best college experi­ences a person could ever have,” Valdivia said. 
Judging by her early achievements, Valdivia seems more than ready to lead the Irish to success this season. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
year is forward Anna Kammrath. All of the return­ing members of last year’s squad bring experience from last year’s MIAA tournament. Saint Mary’s reached the championship game of the tournament last year. 
The Belles hope to make it back to the championship game, but they must first defeat Calvin before they can move forward. 
The game begins tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingle@nd.edu 
the Panthers full-court pres­sure and continued to stymie the Pitt offense. 
With the lead comfortably in hand, the Irish used up the clock down the stretch before celebrating the much-needed win. 
“A lot of teams haven’t beat­en Pittsburgh, this conference is tough,” Jackson said. “Whenever you can get a Big East win, it’s a positive. It shows us and everyone that we can still compete, we can still do this as a team, we can 
play with the 
best in the 
league.” 

responded “Everybody came outbefore the Note: Before 
ready to guard their
break. Jackson the game had a nice man, we were getting Harangody 
crossover and rebounds all night.” was the first fade-away as inductee into time expired to Notre Dame’s 
Tim Abromaitis 
give the Irish a Ring of Honor 35 -28 lead at Purcell 
Irish forward 
heading to the locker room. 
The Irish were able to begin extending the lead after halftime, with junior forward Carleton Scott hitting two big 3-pointers as the shot clock wound down. While the Panthers struggled offensively Notre Dame was on fire from the perimeter, hitting 10 of its first 14 3­point attempts. 
An Abromaitis 3 from the wing extended the Irish lead to 52-29, and Pittsburgh was forced into desperation mode. Notre Dame was unfazed by Pavilion. A 
banner honor­
ing Harangody’s number 44 was unveiled and will be joined in the future by former and present men’s and women’s basketball players and volley­ball players who have made notable contributions to the university during their careers. 
The Irish will next travel to No. 13 Georgetown on Saturday, with tip-off at noon. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Torpedo 
continued from page 24 
While neither Notre Dame nor the Wolverines lived up to their pre-season hype, Irish coach Jeff Jackson still con­siders this series a crucial matchup before the confer­ence tournament in March. 
“I think people probably looked at this series at the start of the season as a show­down between two top teams,” Jackson said. “Both teams have been inconsistent at best, but we’re still playing for something. We have to go into this weekend trying to put something together before the CCHA tourna­ment.” 
Notre Dame and Michigan split a home-and-home series back in December, with the Wolverines picking up a 4-1 victory in Ann Arbor before Irish freshman goaltender Mike Johnson’s shutout win at the Joyce. Notre Dame has won four of the last six meet­ings in the heated rivalry. 
Injuries along the Irish blue line in that December series forced Jackson to play the infamous “torpedo” offense for a weekend, a system fea­turing four forwards and a single roving defenseman favored by the Swedish national team. Injuries con­tinue to plague Notre Dame, and the team has faded in recent weeks due in large part to a depleted bench. 
Jackson said he believes that a strong series against Michigan should help his squad develop some consis­tency throughout the lineup, which has shuffled repeatedly as players have moved on and off the injury list. 
“It’s important us for to start having some lines to play together,” Jackson said. “We haven’t had any kind of continuity almost the whole second half. It’s about estab­lishing rhythm and confi ­dence this weekend.” 
While the Irish require a deep run in the CCHA tourna­ment to have a shot at mak­ing the NCAA Tournament, Jackson says his team will not be caught looking ahead to March. 
“Right now it’s about play­ing Michigan,” Jackson said. “You have to put yourself in the right position for the CCHA playoffs. We can’t look past anything. We have to go into the playoffs playing well.” 
The puck drops tonight at 
7:35 p.m. at the Wolverines’ Yost Arena in Ann Arbor. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Thursday, February 25, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Climbing out of a Pitt 
Four Notre Dame players score at least 13 points without help of Harangody 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish bounced back a week after a heartbreaking double -overtime loss to Louisville, upsetting No. 16 Pittsburgh (21-7, 10-5 Big East) 68 -53 at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Notre Dame (18-10, 7-8) used a balanced scoring attack and strong defensive effort to cruise to a big win. 
Even with senior forward Luke Harangody missing his third straight game because of a bone bruise in his right knee, the Irish shot, rebound­ed and defended better than the visiting Panthers. 
Junior forward Tim Abromaitis led the Irish with 17 points, and four Notre Dame players scored at least 
13. Junior guard Ben Hansbrough tallied 15 points, senior guard Tory Jackson notched 14 and junior for­ward Tyrone Nash finished with 13 points and seven rebounds. 
“I’m really happy with this group, they played their back­sides off,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “The past couple games without Luke it’s been tough, but they’ve really kept it up in practice and I think tonight it paid off.” 
The Irish got off to a quick start, winning the opening tip and taking an early 6-0 lead 
on 3s from Jackson and Abromaitis. While the Panthers quickly closed the lead to two, the Irish would maintain the lead for the rest of the game. 
With Notre Dame up 12-10, the starting unit then created a 10-0 run, punctuated by an Abromaitis dunk off a nice feed from Jackson. 
Abromaitis credited the defensive effort with Notre Dame’s success. 
see PITT/page 22 



ND SOFTBALL 

Valdivia ready to step up her game in her junior season 
By MEGAN FINNERAN Sports Writers  baseball. “I knew that I wanted to do that too, so my parents put  on the Notre Dame campus I knew I was home,” Valdivia said. “The coaches, my team- w e e k e n d a t t h e S o u t h e r n Miss Mizuno Classic, Valdivia led the Irish to three wins,  put together a strong presea­son and receiving recognition for that always feels great.”  
m e  o n  t h e  s o f t b a l l  f i e l d , ”  mates and the atmosphere of  striking out 13 players from  But when it  comes down to  
Many little girls dream of  Valdivia said.  Notre Dame  were  unlike any  Louisiana Tech in her sixth  the greatest moments of her  
being  a  princess, owning  a  A h i g h l y s u c c e s s f u l h i g h  o t h er school I h ad expe r i-game in which she recorded  career, it is not the individual  
pony or of becoming just like  s c h o o l  c a r e e r  b o t h  o n  t h e  enced. The tradition of  aca­ more than 10 strikeouts.  accomplishments that stand  
their moms. For junior pitch- field and in the classroom in  demic excellence combined  Securing three wins for her  out in Valdivia’s mind. While  
er  Jody Valdivia, the dream  C a l i f o r n i a g a v e Va l d i v i a  a  with athletic excellence made  t e a m  g r a n t e d Va l d i v i a t h e  she said she will always fond- 
was quite different.  range of choices for college.  c h oosing Notre Da me v er y  title of Big East conference  ly remember big games and  
When she was six years old,  T h e  r e c r u i t i n g  p r o c e s s  easy.”  Pitcher of the week.  the Big East championship,  
Valdivia began the game she  brought her to Notre Dame,  Her first two years provided  “It felt really good to snag  her best moments have come  
would grow to love, following  a n d  f r o m  t h e r e  h e r  p a t h  a  g r o w i n g e x p e r i e n c e a n d  the first Big East Pitcher of  from playing with her team- 
in the footsteps of her older  became clear.  shaped her to the player and  the week honors,” Valdivia  
bro t h e r Je sse, w h o pla ye d  “The minute I stepped foot  leader she has become. Last  said. “Our team is looking to  see PITCHER/page 22  

HOCKEY 

IrishpreparingforWolverines 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
While their season hit a dead end the last few week­ends, the Irish at least have a chance to derail their archri­val’s post-season plans. 
Notre Dame concludes its regular season this week with a home-and-home series against Michigan, taking on the Wolverines in Ann Arbor tonight before senior night Saturday at the Joyce Center. The Irish (12-14-8, 8-11-7-2 CCHA) are currently sitting 10th in the CCHA, while sev­enth-place Michigan (18-16-1, 13-12-1-0 CCHA) has an out­side shot at a first-round bye in the CCHA tournament. 
see TORPEDO/page 22 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles ready to face CalvininMIAAtourney 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s continues its postseason journey tonight with a trip to Calvin for the semifinal round of the MIAA tournament. 
The Belles (15 -11, 9-7 MIAA) enter the game com­ing off an exhilarating 61­59 win over Albion in the first round that went down to the wire. Saint Mary’s enters yet another tough battle as they take on Calvin (23-3, 14-2), the No. 2 seed in the tournament. While the Knights boast a much stronger record, that won’t discourage the Belles. 
Saint Mary’s is coming off three impressive victories to close out the season, includ­ing two straight wins over Albion. The Belles could use this win streak to propel them past the Knights who will pose as a big challenge. 
Calvin is in its fifth 20-win season in the past seven years. Last week, freshman forward Carissa Verkaik broke the MIAA single-game scoring record with 46 points in a win over Adrian. The Belles will face a tough test in defending the Knights’ high -powered 
offense, which averaged 
67.8 points per game this 
see MIAA/page 22 





