the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students, staff react to passing of health care bill 
College Democrats celebrate while College Republicans lament the House’s 219-212 vote to favor the reform 

By AARON STEINER and 
SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writers 
Notre Dame College Democrats celebrated a long-awaited victory Sunday after spending months making more than 6,000 phone calls to area residents, asking them to express their support to health care reform to Rep. Joe Donnelly, a Democrat. 
Donnelly voted “yes” on the health care reform legislation, which passed in the House of Representatives Sunday by a 219-212 vote. President Barack Obama is scheduled to sign the bill today. 
William Evans, an economics professor at Notre Dame with an expertise in health econom­ics, said the legislation marks “extensive change” on a num­ber of fronts. 
“Any way you slice it, a tril­lion dollars over 10 years is a chunk of change,” Evans said, referring to the estimated increase in government expen­ditures. 
Evans said the bill will result in a “fairly substantial increase in government provi­sion of medical care.” 
While it won’t provide uni­versal coverage, as some have suggested, Evans said more Americans will have health insurance. 
“It’s clear that insurance enrollment is going to go up as a result of this … and the number of uninsured is going to go down,” he said. 
The positives and negatives of reform have been fiercely debated, mostly along partisan lines, but Evans said he sees both good and bad in the legis­lation. He pointed to aggres­sive moves to control Medicare costs as a positive change but said those who are concerned about the high cost are “right-
see BILL/page 6 


Third annual festival recognizes, celebrates female authors 
writers to the expense of fessor at Saint Mary’s. and that means males and ously as a man and finding an 
By KATLYN SMITH 
female writers,” she said. “We Sayers said this year’s theme females,” she said. audience because it’s still kind 
News Writer 
really want to say that women resonates with students. Sayers said female writers of of the common wisdom in New writers are around and that “This year we focused on literary fiction often struggle York publishing houses that if 
The third annual Women they have something to say to writers who do short stories to gain attention. a women writes about a Writers Festival will help all readers.” because that’s where so many “Women who write genre women’s life, only women are counter the trend of celebrat-The Festival will feature undergraduate writers start,” fiction, dating novels or any of going to read about it.” ing male authors and give three prize-winning female Sayers said. the chick literature genres Sayers said the online envi­recognition to their female authors on Tuesday and Sayers also said she hopes really have no problem getting ronment is one way to counter counterparts, Valerie Sayers, a Wednesday in McKenna Hall. the festival will be a “visual published or getting recogni-this challenge. professor of English, said. It will include readings and a presence” on campus and tion,” Sayers said. “For women “The publishing scene is 
“Even anthologies up until panel discussion by writers raise awareness among the who write literary fiction, I changing so rapidly with just a few years ago and still, Lorrie Moore, Lolita student body. think the challenge is still everything that’s going anthologies of contemporary Hernandez and Frances “The more undergraduates finding a publisher who will writers, will focus on male Hwang, a creative writing pro-that know about us, the better, take a woman writer as seri-see WRITERS/page 6 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


Members recommend medical amnesty policy 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) passed a recommendation to include a medical amnesty policy in du Lac while also debating pro­gressive discipline and the levels of administrative action at its meeting Monday. 
Council members passed the medical amnesty recommenda­tion with a 12-1 vote. The policy would prevent a student seeking medical treatment for a friend from getting in trouble with the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH). 
Controversy over the policy in past meetings caused the recom­mendation to be revised and rep­resented to CLC at Monday’s meeting. 
“Students would at least know that this would be kept in consid­eration,” student body president Grant Schmidt said. “I feel that 
see CLC/page 6 



Healthy vending available 
By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students and staff looking for healthier on­the-go snack options now have to look no further than the nearest vending machines. 
Notre Dame Vending has partnered with Del Monte Fresh Produce Company to provide fresh-cut produce options in the sandwich machines around campus. 
The products are new this semester, but the project to bring healthier snack options TOM LA/The Observer 
Notre Dame has begun to implement healthier vending machine see VENDING/page 6 options, including fruit and vegetable snacks. 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER International Festival Week page 3  Women’s basketball to face Vermont page 20  Where did the pesto go? page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 23, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 
FoodNetwork, I LoveYou 
Dear Food Network, 
Thank you for existing. Your television programming is a pleasure to watch day in and day out. It is bad enough that Notre Dame cable does not offer the Bravo chan­nel. But luckily, we Domers have you. Even in the direst of circumstances, when not even a “Law & Order” repeat is on, I can count on Channel 64 to provide enjoy­able programming. 
Bobby Flay, you are awesome. You domi-

Caitlin Ferraro 
nate as a host on so many shows includ-
Assistant 
ing my favorite 
Scene Editor 
“Throwdown! with Bobby Flay.” This show is an absolute work of genius as you travel all over the country challenging chefs to a cook-off of their renowned dishes. You are graceful in your wins and losses and always put an interesting twist on every dish. 
If I’m in the mood for dessert and design I watch “Food Network Challenge,” a compe­tition that features professional chefs in cake making. But these are not your aver­age cakes. These are incredible pieces of art. I have so much invested in the contest­ants. If my favorite cake does not win, I get upset. When the judges are jerks, I get upset. And as they move their cakes from the kitchen to the judging table, my heart stops. Thank you Food Network for con­cocting this show, especially the Disney Villain themed episode. 
Duff Goldman and all of Charm City Cakes, I wish I were as creative as you guys. “Ace of Cakes” is a fantastic show full of people who genuinely seem to be having fun. Geof, the cake genius and resident fix it guy, is my personal fave. And there is no doubt about it; TLC’s “Cake Boss” is absolutely a step down. Sorry Buddy, you are no Duff. 
It’s true Rachael Ray, you annoy me a lot with your raspy voice and the way you have tried to take over the world like you were the second coming of Martha Stewart. But I still watch your show because let’s face it, its pretty impressive to make a full meal (that usually looks delicious) in 30 minutes. But please save my grandma from having a heart attack and wash your chicken and let­tuce in water before you start cooking. It’s just not sanitary. 
And then there’s “The Next Food Network Star.” What a brilliant reality show competition. The contestants get a real prize that can actually launch their career, their own series on the Food Network. My favorite success story is Guy Fieri. His infa­mous bleached hair and larger than life personality makes him so entertaining to watch and he adds something different to the sometimes cookie cutter bunch at the Food Network. Guy, you rock. 
Whether you’re a woman doing laundry (hey mom!) or a college student avoiding homework, the Food Network is the place to go. So thank you Food Network for every­thing. My only beef with you is that I cannot watch when I am hungry. No matter what something always looks appetizing, from Giada’s Italian food to Paula Deen’s buttery creations! 
Sincerely, 
Caitlin Ferraro 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ARE YOUR T OUG TS ABOUT T E  EALTH CARE BILL? 





Michael Sabella  Alex Gatlin  Kelly Yuen  Brian Schwartze  Lisa Edwards  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Stanford  Fisher  Ryan  Fisher  Pangborn  
“I think it’s  “Disappointing.  “I just donated  “Let the one  “What Brian  
rubbish.”  This is the U.S.,  blood!”  among you  Schwartze  
not Canada.”  who is without  said.”  
sin cast the first  

stone.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer A student receives a temporary tattoo during the Multicultural Extravaganza held Monday as a part of International Festival Week. The event was put on by International Student Services and Activities. 
OFFBEAT 
Topless gardener prompts complaints, new rules 
BOULDER, Colo. — A woman gardening wearing only a yellow thong and pink gloves has brought neighborhood complaints and new rules from a hous­ing authority in Colorado. 
Boulder Housing Partners plans to amend its rules so that tenants cover up when they’re outside. Several passers-by told Boulder police earlier this week that 52-year-old Catharine Pierce was top­less while tending to her yard. Last year, she was threatened with eviction for gardening wearing only pasties and a thong. 
Police responding to Wednesday’s reports decid­ed Pierce wasn’t breaking any laws. 
Robert Pierce said he’ll fight changes that would keep his wife from garden­ing outside topless, which is legal under state and city law. 
UK library receives book overdue by 45 years 
LONDON — It’s common to return a library book late — but not by half a century. 
Staff at a British library say they were surprised and puzzled when they received a book that was 45 years overdue through their mailbox. 
Alison Lawrie, the princi­pal assistant at Dinnington Library, near northern England’s Sheffield, says the Penguin first edition copy of “Quartermass and the Pit” by Nigel Kneale was due back on Oct. 15, 1965. 
She says the borrower remains a mystery because the library records don’t go back that far, and the sender didn’t attach a let­ter or note with the book. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight WedNesday Thursday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibit titled “All Art is Propaganda” will be held from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. today in room 102 in the Hesburgh Library Special Collections. 
“Caroline Chiu: Polaroids as Chinese Ink Painting,” will be held from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. today. The exhibit will be on display in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
An exhibit titled “Yin Yu Tang: A Chinese Home” will be held from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. today in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
A seminar titled “Coupled Wave and Storm Surge in Southern Louisiana” will be held at noon today in room 258 in Fitzpatrick Hall. 
Daily mass will be held today at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
La Fuerza is sponsoring guest speaker Enrique Morones at Saint Mary’s College tonight. Morones, president & founder of Border Angels, will speak at 7 p.m. in Vander Vennet Theatre in the Student Center. 
The Creative Writing Program will host the third Women Writer’s Festival. The even begins tonight at 6 p.m. and will be held in the audito­rium and rooms 100-104 of McKenna Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Friday Saturday 

Atlanta 63 / 42 Boston 50 / 40 Chicago 59 / 38 Denver 39 / 30 Houston 75 / 56 Los Angeles 70 / 50 Minneapolis 51 / 30 New York 56 / 43 Philadelphia 61 / 43 Phoenix 69 / 56 Seattle 61 / 43 St. Louis 67 / 43 Tampa 71 / 51 Washington 59 / 49 
Tuesday, March 23, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ISSA hosts Int’l Festival Week 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Office of International Student Services and Activities (ISSA) will host International Festival Week, a celebration of the various cultures of international stu­dents in the Notre Dame community, on campus this week. 
A part of the University’s Division of Student Affairs, ISSA “is responsible for pro­viding services and programs to international students and their families that include ... cultural education and com­munity outreach,” according to its Web site. 
Sophomore Anne Huntington, an ISSA International Ambassador, said she hopes the week will be an especially visible example of cultural educa­tion. 
“I hope students will see there’s a lot more interna­tional students and interna­tional flavor than we see on a daily basis,” Huntington said. “It will show students that there’s more out there, that there are really interesting international people right here on campus.” 
The Festival Week began Sunday with a Studio Tour of the Fischer-O’Hara -Grace Community Center and a Spanish Mass in the St. Edward’s Hall Chapel. 
On Monday, ISSA hosted a “Multicultural Extravaganza” at the Dooley Room in LaFortune and a Bahá’í Devotional Gathering in Coleman-Morse. 
Additional events will take place throughout the week, Huntington said. 
“We’re going to have two cooking classes for interna­tional students, a red hot chili eating contest and an international sports event,” she said. 
Tonight’s “Speed Language” event will offer students a crash course in foreign lan­guages at 7 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
International students can also form connections with potential employers like IBM, Motorola and Whirlpool at 7 
p.m. in Flanner Hall. 
Thursday’s “Food from Around the World: an International Potluck Dinner” at the Wilson Commons will be followed by an International Sports Event at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center on Friday night. Sports will include bad­minton, cricket, rugby, soccer and table tennis, the ISSA Web site said. 
The Festival Week will con­clude Saturday with a “Holi Festival,” or Festival of Lights, traditionally celebrat­ed in India and Nepal, and an International Children’s Festival with Cultural Displays at University Village. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

Alumna advises career flexibility 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
The ability to adjust to a variety of opportunities is important when searching for a job, a Saint Mary’s alumna and human resources executive said Monday. 
Margaret Taylor, a 1978 gradu­ate, spoke with students in the Student Center Lounge about the steps involved with finding a career, from choosing a major to job hunting. 
“Majors change, that’s OK,” Taylor said. “If you’re in a major you’re not so comfortable with, don’t be afraid to say, ‘hey, this isn’t the right one.’ 
“You have to do something that you have passion in.” 
Taylor said she originally intended on becoming an educa­tion major at Saint Mary’s. She has since worked for 20 years as a human resources representative and currently serves as the Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Biomet Inc. in Warsaw, Ind. 
After changing her major to Communication Studies, she soon discovered a love for Humanistic Studies as well and decided she wanted to work in the broadcast­ing industry. 
“I really spent most of my time interning over at WNDU, which was a great experience,” Taylor said. “I had a great audition tape by the time I was done with my internship, but I knew by the end of my internship that I knew that I wasn’t sure that that’s what I wanted to do for the rest of my life.” 
After an internship with a local broadcasting company, Taylor had reservations about a career in broadcast journalism and began her search for a new career path. Taylor stressed the importance of internships and recommended all students pursue them. 
“Get your internships and get them early,” she said. “In some regard, it doesn’t matter what you intern in, especially at this stage, or where, but then you get the experience and it will tell you as much about what you don’t want to do as what you want to do.” 
Taylor said students must remember to be flexible when searching for a post-graduation profession, and she used a per­sonal anecdote to illustrate her point. 
While working at a drugstore, Taylor said her boss submitted her name for a human resources position within the organization — and that’s how she get her start in the area she has now worked in for two decades, she said. 
While she was working as a human resources representative for the first time, Taylor said she realized that she knew more than she thought she did. 
She reminded students to have confidence in their capabilities, as well as to be willing to learn new things. 
“There are so many things you are learning here today that you don’t realize,” she said. 
Taylor said she credits much of her success to her undergraduate studies at an all-female institution. 
She said gender has the poten­tial to play a role in the makeup of the workforce but said women do have a place in corporate America. She reminded students to forget about gender and instead focus on their own capa­bilities. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
Panelists to discuss Michael Jackson’s image 
Special to The Observer 
The sixth annual Erskine A. Peters Fellowship Symposium, titled “Reconstructing Michael Jackson’s Image: Explorations of Body, Spirit and Society,” will be held Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Eck Visitors Center audi­torium at the University of Notre Dame. The symposium will be preceded by a reception at 6 p.m. in the Eck Center. Both events are free and open to the public. 
Sponsored by the Department of Africana Studies, the sympo­sium will feature panelists dis­cussing the image of the late musical artist Michael Jackson from a variety of disciplinary perspectives. 
The symposium will be mod­erated by Shana Redmond, assistant professor of American studies and ethnicity at the University of Southern California. 
The five 2009-10 Erskine Peters Fellows will serve as panelists. They are: Jean Beaman, Department of Sociology, Northwestern University; Jessica Graham, Department of History, University of Chicago; Nicole Ivy, Department of African and American Studies, Yale University; Laurence Ralph, Department of Anthropology, University of Chicago; and Marques Redd, Department of English, University of California at Berkeley. 
The Erskine A. Peters Dissertation Year Fellowship at Notre Dame was established in 1999 to enable outstanding African-American doctoral candidates in the arts, humani­ties, social sciences and theo­logical disciplines to experi­ence life at Notre Dame while devoting their full energies to the completion of their disser­tations. 
The Peters Fellowship honors the life and academic achieve­ments of one of the University’s most distinguished and beloved professors, Erskine A. Peters. Peters taught English at the University and became leg­endary for his commitment to scholarship, community service and graduate education in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Peters, who was 49 years old when he died in 1998, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1987, having previously taught for 11 years at the University of California at Berkeley, where he had served multiple terms as chairperson of Afro-American studies and dean of the College of Letters and Science. 
page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 23, 2010 
SMC elects class officers 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Results are in, and the new leadership for the 2010-11 class boards at Saint Mary’s has been chosen. 
For the Class of 2011, jun­iors Kelly Lyons and Megan Flynn will be the president and vice president, respectively. Sophomores Nicole Gans and 
Maggie DePaola will take over for the Class of 2012, and the Class of 2013 will be led by first-years Katie Gutrich and Torrie Thompson. Each of 
the new presidents and vice presidents will select the remainder of their boards and take office April 1, when the new Student Government Association (SGA) board takes over. 
Class of 2011: Lyons and Flynn 
Lyons said she wants to help make this a “memorable year” for the seniors. 
Lyons said the major events of the year will be Senior Dad’s Weekend and Senior Formal. In addition, she said there will be service projects and more senior-specific events on cam­tinue the Light the Night Walk, Junior Formal and Junior Mom’s Weekend from last year’s board. 
Class of 2013: Gutrich and Thompson 
Gutrich said she wanted the position of class president so she would have the opportuni­ty play a larger role in the events on campus. 
“Being an active member on campus is an important aspect of college life and I hope to encourage more of my class­mates to get involved,” Gutrich said. 
Both Gutrich and Thompson have already started brain­storming new events for next year’s board to plan, including a-Welcome Back to SMC Bonfire and a Thanksgiving Food Drive. 
“Next year, I would really like to see the Class of 2013 become more united,” Thompson said. 
Thompson said it is impor­tant to look toward the future since the Class of 2013 still has plenty of time together on campus. 
“I want to unite the class,” Thomspon said. “I think that’s extremely important being that we have three more years together.” 
Gutrich also said they hope to have more volunteer activi­ties available for the sopho­more class to help bring them together. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
Saint Mary’s promotes immigration awareness 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s La Fuerza, a club representing Latina culture on cam­pus, is holding Action week in order “to create awareness about the realities of immigration in the U.S.,” said club vice president Brianda Salas, a sophomore. 
The first event held Monday was a viewing of the film “Papers,” which is “a documentary about undocumented youth and the chal­lenges they face as they turn 18 and graduate high school without legal status,” Salas said. 
The week will continue with a bilingual mass in Le Mans Hall’s Holy Spirit Chapel at 9 p.m. Wednesday. 
On Thursday, La Fuerza will host Immigration Monologues, which will be “a short presentation about the myths and facts about immigra­tion, followed by the real-life stories of individuals who have gone through the struggles of life as an immigrant and other similar sto­ries,” Salas said. 
Salas said La Fuerza will also host guest speaker Enrique Morones, the founder of Border Angels. 
Salas said Border Angels is a non­profit organization made of volun­teers who work to stop unnecessary deaths of individuals who travel through the Imperial Valley dessert areas and the mountain areas sur­rounding San Diego County. 
Morones will deliver a lecture on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Vander Vennet Theater. Though the lecture will not be part of Action Week, it is related to its message, she said. 
“We believe that by bringing Enrique Morones, it will enhance the Saint Mary’s College mission of commitment for social justice as well as promote student activism,” Salas said. “We not only wish to raise awareness, we want to pro­mote action.” 
Salas said she hopes these events will help break down existing stereotypes and misconceptions about immigration. 
“La Fuerza wants to dispel those myths by presenting facts and real-life stories that will draw our audi­ence closer to the realities of immi­gration and how it affects everyone and anyone regardless of migratory status,” Salas said. 
The week as a whole is only part of the group’s mission to bring knowledge to campus about Latina Culture. 
“As a group, we want to promote diversity and cultural education on our campus and the community,” Salas said. “With this event, we believe we are doing just that, edu­cating the campus on immigration not just through opinions but facts.” 
Salas said the club does not dis­criminate and embraces all cultures and backgrounds. 
“We welcome anybody, not just Latinas,” Salas said. “Everyone is welcomed to become a member of La Fuerza and share their unique­ness through La Fuerza.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
pus. 
Lyons and Flynn hope to con­tinue previous traditions while still working to make improve­ments. 
Lyons also said she will be receptive to the opinions of her fellow classmates. 
“We want to make sure every senior feels like they have had an input into each of our class events,” Lyons said. “We hope that both our ideas 
“We want to make sure every senior feels like they have an input into each of our class events.” 
Kelly Lyons class president-elect 
junior 
and the ideas of our classmates for other senior class events will add to the mem­ories of our final year.” 
Class of 2012: Gans and DePaola 
DePaola said being involved on campus is “very important” to her. 
Gans and DePaola want to work 
toward bringing the junior class together next year. 
“One of my main goals is to achieve a higher rate of class involvement,” DePaola said. “Nicole and I are really trying to listen to ideas from our class.” 
In order to help smooth the transition, DePaola said they hope to keep members from last year’s board to help keep them “knowledgeable” and “experienced” as a board. 
They said they hope to con­tinue with class events while increasing volunteering on campus. 
DePaola said they will con­

World & Nation 
Tuesday, March 23, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mining execs admit to bribery 
SHANGHAI — Four employees of mining giant Rio Tinto pleaded guilty Monday to tak­ing bribes, lawyers and an Australian diplo­mat said, in an embarrassing case seen as part of a harsh new attitude toward foreign business in China. 
Rio Tinto is one of China’s top providers of iron ore and a key industry negotiator in commodity price talks with the government. The accused include a Rio Tinto executive who was arrested along with three employ­ees last year during fractious annual negoti­ations over iron ore prices. 
The admissions of bribe taking — although no details of the allegations have been released — are a blow for Rio Tinto at a time when it is striving to restore good relations with China. The four also face charges of stealing commercial secrets, and final ver­dicts in the trial could take weeks. 
UN backs “Afghanization” efforts 
UNITED NATIONS — The U.N. Security Council on Monday backed Afghan efforts to take charge of the country’s future and promote talks with militants who are ready to break ties with al-Qaida, renounce terrorism and support the Afghan constitution. 
In a unanimous resolution extending the U.N.’s 1,700-strong civilian mission in Afghanistan for a year, the council made clear that while the U.N. should continue leading civil­ian efforts in the country it wants stepped-up action to turn over civilian and military activi­ties to the Afghans themselves. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Activist group ACORN to disband 
CHICAGO — The once mighty community activist group ACORN announced Monday it is folding amid falling revenues — six months after video footage emerged showing some of its workers giving tax tips to conser­vative activists posing as a pimp and prosti­tute. 
“It’s really declining revenue in the face of a series of attacks from partisan operatives and right-wing activists that have taken away our ability to raise the resources we need,” ACORN spokesman Kevin Whelan said. 
Several of its largest affiliates, including ACORN New York and ACORN California, broke away this year and changed their names in a bid to ditch the tarnished image of their parent organization and restore rev­enue that ran dry in the wake of the video scandal. 
Bush, Clinton tour ruined capital 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — Former Presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton toured Haiti’s rubble-filled capital Monday to raise aid and investment for a country still reeling from a devastating Jan. 12 earth­quake. 
It is the first joint visit to the impoverished Caribbean nation for the two former leaders, who were tasked by President Barack Obama with leading the U.S. fundraising effort. 
After meeting with President Rene Preval on the grounds of the collapsed national palace, they walked through the tarps-and-tent city on the adjacent Champ de Mars, the national mall filled with 60,000 homeless quake sur­vivors living in squalor. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Second teen dies in bike crash 
SEYMOUR, Ind. — State police say a sec­ond teenager has died a day after he and a friend were struck by a pickup truck while riding double on a bicycle in the middle of the night on a southern Indiana highway. 
Police say the boys were riding in the southbound lane of U.S. 31 a couple miles from Seymour when they were hit about 2 
a.m. Sunday. Seventeen-year-old Todd Schurman was pronounced dead at the scene, and 17-year-old Zach Grubb died Monday at Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis, where he was taken with severe head trauma. 
Health bill to effect slow change 
Obama plans to sign main legislation today after a year-long fight for reform 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — The first  
changes under the new  
health care law will be easy  
to see and not long in com­ 
ing: There’ll be $250 rebate  
checks for seniors in the  
Medicare drug coverage  
gap, and young adults mov­ 
ing from college to work will  
be able to stay on their par­ 
ents’ plans until they turn  
26.  
But the peace of mind the  
president promised — the  
antidote for health care  
insecurity, whether you  
favored or opposed his over­ 
haul — is still a ways beyond  
the horizon, starting only in  
2014. Insurers then will be  
barred from turning down  
people with medical prob­ 
lems, and the government  
will provide tax credits to  
help millions of working  
families buy coverage they  
can’t afford now.  
Health care overhaul will  
bring real change, but it’s  
going to happen slowly.  
President Barack Obama  
plans to sign the main legis­ 
lation Tuesday in the White  
House East Room after a bit­ 
terly divided House  
approved it Sunday night.  
That will cap a turbulent, AP  
yearlong quest by the presi-Rep. Barney Frank, right, looks on as Rep. John Tierney speaks about the health care  
dent and congressional reform bill in Boston Monday. President Barack Obama will sign the bill on Tuesday.  
Democrats to remake the  
nation’s health care system,  it’s going to be several years,  remain on their parents’  insurance premiums some- 
fully one-sixth of the U.S.  but that is the reality of  plans until 26 would be a  what higher.  
economy.  what it takes to make these  significant new option for  Obama’s plan also  
Obama’s signature will  significant changes,” she  families.  includes an important new  
start the Senate considering  added.  Adult children would not  program for the most vul­ 
a package of changes the  The main reason that  be able to stay on a parental  nerable: uninsured people  
House also has approved.  Obama’s plan phases in  plan if they had access to  who can’t get coverage  
But the main overhaul will  slowly boils down to cost.  employer coverage of their  because of major medical  
already be officially on the  The Medicare cuts and tax  own. But they could get  problems. It’s intended to  
books.  increases to finance the bill  married and still be covered.  provide an umbrella of pro- 
Still, if Obama wants to  start early; the subsidies to  (Grandkids, however, would  tection until the broad  
actually preside over the  help people purchase cover- not qualify.) Regulations will  expansion of coverage takes  
expansion of coverage to  age come later. That combi­ clarify to what degree young  effect in 2014.  
more than 30 million people,  nation keeps the cost of the  adults have to be financially  The government will  
he’ll first have to persuade a  overhaul under $1 trillion in  dependent on their parents.  pump money into high-risk  
majority of Americans to re- its first decade, as Obama  Other reforms starting this  insurance pools in the  
elect him in 2012.  promised. Republicans call it  year would prevent insurers  states, making coverage  
“For people who have the  an accounting gimmick —  from canceling the policies  available for people in frail  
greatest need, a number of  but in past years they also  of people who get sick, from  health who have been unin­ 
things will start quickly and  resorted to it.  denying coverage to children  sured for at least six  
make a difference,” said  Here’s a look at some of  with medical problems, and  months. The premiums  
DeAnn Friedholm of  the major impacts for con- from putting lifetime dollar  could still be a stretch, but  
Consumers Union. For oth­ sumers:  limits on a policy.  for people who need contin­ 
ers, 2014 may seem like a  Roughly a third of people  These changes will spread  uing medical attention, it  
long way away. “Some peo­ in their 20s are uninsured,  risks more broadly, but  could make a dramatic dif­ 
ple may be frustrated that  so allowing young adults to  they’re also likely to nudge  ference.  

Clinton defends Israeli housing criticism 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — New Israeli con­struction on land claimed by the Palestinians threatens peace efforts and undermines America’s ability to help end the Arab-Israeli conflict, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton told a leading Jewish organ­ization Monday. 
Israel’s recent announcement of new housing in east Jerusalem exposed differences between the 
U.S. and the Jewish state that oth­ers could exploit, Clinton said. Her remarks to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee were friendly, but contained a blunt account of a severe diplomatic breach between the close allies over what the United States sees as the provocative and shortsighted expansion of Jewish settlements and other housing on land claimed by Palestinians. 
Clinton defended the Obama administration’s strong criticism of a recent large housing announce­ment because she said it hurt attempts to launch peace talks in which the United States will be the intermediary. 
“We objected to this announce­ment because we are committed to Israel and its security, which we believe depends on a comprehen­sive peace,” Clinton said. 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks to the group Monday evening, and was seeing President Barack Obama on Tuesday. 
A spokesman said Netanyahu would take a firm stand on Israel’s position regarding Jerusalem. The Israeli leader will stress that Jerusalem is Israel’s capital, “not a settlement,” government spokesman Mark Regev said. 
Netanyahu will also make the case that Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons threatens to spell the end of the era of “nuclear peace” that the world has experi­enced since the end of WWII, Regev said. 
Clinton got a polite but muted response to most of her remarks, and loud approval when she talked tough on Iran. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 23, 2010 
[discipline] will always get 
existing conditions while get-was struck with the president, kicked back to the rector.” 
ting more healthy people into who agreed to sign an execu-
CLC 
Bill 
The recommendation would 
the health care system and tive order to prohibit federal continued from page 1 free the hands of ORLH by giving 
continued from page 1 focusing more on preventing money from funding abortions. more room for discretion, 
illness, rather than on treating Still, some groups, including these revised points attest to Judicial Council president Ian 
fully worried.” the uninsured once they get pro-life groups, have said the that.” Secviar said. It would also be in 
But for the College sick. executive order is not a suffi-The new recommendation keeping with the goal of pastoral 
Democrats, the bill’s passage “That’s where huge cost sav-cient guarantee that federal suggests a medical amnesty poli-care that is central to the philos­
was seen as completely posi-ings come in,” he said. money won’t able to fund cy be established “that, under ophy behind residence life at 
tive. Rhodenbaugh also said the abortions. normal circumstances, allows Notre Dame, he said. 
“The College Democrats are bill will benefit college stu-“I, along with Republicans, students to report emergencies Zahm House rector Corry 
celebrating a victory for jus-dents by allowing young peo-agree that it is immoral and without automatically incurring Colonna said CLC should not 
tice,” said junior Chris ple to stay on their parents’ wrong to force taxpayers who a disciplinary record.” assume that sending a student to 
Rhodenbaugh, co-president of insurance until they are 26 may be pro-life to pay for The ultimate decision on ORLH for discipline negates the 
the College Democrats. “We years old. abortions,” Hagstrom said. whether to adapt this policy will educative role of the rector. 
are proud that the Congress, Roughly 28 percent of Rhodenbaugh said he be left up to ORLH, Schmidt said. Council member Gus Gari said 
in particular Joe Donnelly, lis-Americans between the ages of believes the bill as it was Council members also dis-there was a need to recognize 
tened to the voices of the 18 and 24 are currently unin-passed will not fund abortions. cussed how to best keep disci-that the policy of referring disci-
American people and did what sured, Evans said. “The Senate bill won’t fund pline at the lowest administra-pline to the rector would work 
is right for the future of our Hagstrom said a primary abortion and the House bill tive level, which is often a stu-as “an exception rather than a 
country.” concern is that the bill will be won’t fund abortion,” he said. dent’s dorm. norm.” 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame a detriment to the country’s “Abortion will not be paid for “This recommendation is CLC members will review the 
College Republicans are already weak economy. in this bill.” about keeping things in the recommendation and represent 
lamenting the passing of the “The bill will increase costs Rhodenbaugh said the bill is realm of the people who know it to the council next week. 
bill — one that did not garner which is the last thing we actually quite pro-life and students most closely,” student Council members also agreed 
a single Republican vote in the should be doing in this econo-Catholic. body vice president Cynthia to recommend that the new 
House. my,” she said. “From a Catholic perspec-Weber said. issue of du Lac should clarify the 
“The economic and medical Hagstrom also said she is tive, [we] should be working to Weber said this policy would undergraduate tailgating policy. 
future of our country has been against the bill’s language pursue universal health care allow students to avoid an The suggested change asks 
compromised,” said senior regarding abortion, which has and treat health care as a unnecessary disciplinary record that individual students who 
Erika Hagstrom, president of been heavily debated as law-right. It’s about the dignity of when a rector could deal with a wish to host a tailgate may do so 
the College Republicans. “We makers, Catholic organizations the whole life from birth all minor offense instead of sending without consulting the Student 
will not be able to go back, and pro-life groups disagree the way until death,” the student to ORLH. Activities Office, Schmidt said. 
and college students like those whether the bill would allow Rhodenbaugh said. “And Several of the rectors on the CLC will invite Bill Kirk, associ­
of us at Notre Dame will be federal funding for abortion. health care is a huge part of council objected to the lack of ate vice president of Residence 
paying for it for the rest of our Donnelly, a pro-life that.” clarity in the definition for this Life, to its next meeting in order 
lives — fiscally and physically.” Democrat, was one of a hand-recommendation. to hear its recommendations 
Rhodenbaugh said the bill’s ful of representatives who Contact Aaron Steiner at “I am a structure guy,” Fr. Pete and continue its discussion on du 
main strengths are that it will withheld their support for the asteiner@nd.edu and Sarah McCormick, rector of Keough Lac revisions. 
not discriminate based on pre-bill until a last-minute deal Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu Hall, said. “I don’t see the struc­ture here and I’m worried about Contact Megan Doyle at the message that gets sent that mdoyle11@nd.edu 
in their busy lives to write, Moore will open the festival and men should regard that today with a reading after a
Writers 
time as sacred and meaningful public reception. Moore’s hon-so they don’t feel like they are ors for the short story include 
continued from page 1 
VanTubbergen said the fresh 
losing their identity as writ-the O. Henry Award and the vending options are currently 
online,” Sayers said. “There’s ers,” she said. Rea Award for the Short Story. 
Vending 
really going to be a lot gener-Hwang encouraged women Along with Moore and Hwang, continued from page 1 Refreshment Service and in all 
available through the Office ated by writers themselves writers to pursue topics in a Hernandez, another 
sandwich vending machines, 
and that’s great for women. I new way, even if they are writ-PEN/Beyond Margins award including those in the Hesburgh 
think it really allows them to ing about domestic issues, an recipient, will discuss the to Notre Dame vending Library and the Main Building. 
get out there in a way that can area perceived to be the crux short story in a panel tomor­machines has been in the works The fruit and vegetable 
leapfrog over any publishers’ of female authors’ writing. row followed by a reading by for a while, said Michele options are packaged to stay 
preconceived notions of who “There can be plenty of the author. VanTubbergen, operations fresh and cost $1.50 each, the 
they are.” innovation and ambition and Hwang will read a story manager for Notre Dame Notre Dame Food Services Web 
Hwang also addressed per-artistry in a work that focuses tomorrow from a second col-Vending and Office Refreshment site said. 
ceptions involving female writ-on domestic themes,” Hwang lection of stories she is devel-Service. Though other campuses like 
ers. said. “My advice to women oping. She said the story and “In September, we saw the the University of Miami and 
“I think there is also an writers is that they should the collection, both entitled products that were to be avail-Miami-Dade College are also 
assumption that women write about whatever compels “Children of Spleen,” will able to vend and realized what bringing healthier vending to 
should be more selfless than their interest, whatever sub-focus on conflict between par-a great option it would be for their campuses, Notre Dame is 
men, that they should sacrifice ject most delights them or ents and children. the campus to be able to offer the first university in the 
their work and their careers demands to be explored. Hwang’s first collection of fresh cut fruits and vegetables,” Midwest to do so, 
for the sake of their families,” “Whatever it is that you stories, “Transparency,” won VanTubbergen said. VanTubbergen said. 
Hwang said. “I think that choose to write about, you the PEN/Beyond Margins “Our main goal is to offer the “We were so excited to be 
women writers should just be have to find a way to write Award and the Sue Kaufman campus a healthy alternative able to bring the fresh cut 
vigilant and conscientious about your subject in a way Prize for First Fiction from the for a snack while providing con-option to the University,” 
about valuing their writing that’s unfamiliar and new and American Academy of Arts venience,” she said. VanTubbergen said. 
and what they do so even that’s where the ambition of and Letters. These healthy alternatives 
when they have other roles to your work lies, in trying to include single-serving sizes of Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at 
fill. express in a way that surpris-Contact Katlyn Smith at Del Monte fruits and vegetables, ckalsche@nd.edu 
“They should set aside time es your readers.” ksmith33@nd.edu such as pineapple, grapes, apple slices, baby carrots, tomatoes and celery. Including the low-fat dip that accompa­nies some of the options, the snacks all total no more than 120 calories. 
“When the fruits and vegeta­bles became available to vend in January, we made it our highest priority to bring it to Notre Dame,” VanTubbergen said. “Del Monte was the first company to offer this new prod­uct, so we contacted them to find out how we could offer the products to our campus.” 
Del Monte is also excited to implement its services at Notre Dame, Dennis Christou, Del Monte’s vice president of mar­keting said in a press release. 
“We are excited about the launch of Del Monte Fresh Produce Company’s fresh fruit and vegetable vending line at Notre Dame,” Christou said. “This Del Monte initiative helps make fruit and vegetable snacks more accessible to the Notre Dame community. 
“Offering students and faculty these healthier choices is a great way to help them stay healthy when on the go and perfect for their sometimes hec­tic and time-crunched lives.” 

The Observer 
Business
Tuesday, March 23, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Health stocks give market a boost 
NEW YORK — Drug and hospital companies led stocks higher Monday after House lawmak­ers ended months of uncertainty and approved the health care overhaul bill. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose about 44 points. Broader indexes also climbed. 
Investors had expected the health care bill would pass the House, but the approval late Sunday removed some of the anxiety that has dogged stocks of hospitals and drug makers. A bill with changes made by the House now goes back to the Senate for approval. Debate could begin Tuesday. 
The 10-year, $938 billion bill will extend bene­fits to 32 million uninsured Americans. That will have far-reaching effects on health companies. With the bill in hand, investors could place bets on winners and losers. Hospital stocks rose on expectations they would see more business and increased revenue. Some insurers fell because of greater restrictions imposed by the changes. 
Many key points of the bill will not take effect for several years, though others like provisions allowing children to remain on their parents’ insurance until age 26 will kick in this year. 
The Dow rose 43.91, or 0.4 percent, to 10,785.89. It has risen 14 of the past 17 trading days and stands at its highest level since October 2008. 
Intersil Corp. to buy Techwell Inc. 
NEW YORK — Intersil Corp. said Monday it has reached deal to buy Techwell Inc. for about $400 million in cash to strengthen its portfolio of video-processing chips. 
Milpitas, Calif.-based Intersil is paying $18.50 per Techwell share. Net of Techwell’s cash and equiva­lents, the deal values the San Jose, Calif., company at about $370 million, Intersil said. 
Techwell shares rose $5.94, or 48 percent, to $18.38 in Monday afternoon trading. Intersil shares fell 18 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $15.15. 
Techwell has more than 200 employees in the U.S., China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. It makes video processing chips for security camera systems, LCD displays and cars. Intersil makes chips for video chips as well as power manage­ment. 
Intersil expects the deal to close in the second quarter and add to its 2010 earnings excluding one-time costs and other acquisition-related charges. 
Google stops Chinese censorship 
Company shifts operation off mainland in protest of government’s Internet rules 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Google Inc. stopped cen­soring the Internet for China by shifting its search engine off the mainland Monday but said it will maintain other operations in the country. The maneuver attempts to balance Google ’s disdain for China’s Internet rules with the company’s desire to profit from an explosively growing mar­ket. 
Google’s decision comes after an impasse pitting the world’s most power­ful Internet company against the government of the world’s most popu­lous country. It’s still not clear if Google’s solution will resolve a standoff that began Jan. 12. That’s when Google said it would no longer adhere to China’s requirement that it omit some Internet results. 
Visitors to Google’s old service for China, Google.cn, are now being redirected to the Chinese-language service based in Hong Kong, where Google does not censor the search results. The Hong Kong page heralded the shift engine in the U.S. The Council Information Monday blog posting. Monday with this company, based in Office said Beijing is “We want as many peo­a n n o u n c e m e n t : Mountain View, also “uncompromisingly ple in the world as possi­“Welcome to Google intends to keep its map-opposed” to Google ’s ble to have access to our Search in China’s new ping and music services move. services, including users home.” The site also on Google.cn. “This is totally wrong,” in mainland China, yet began displaying search But the revolt against the official told the offi-the Chinese government results in the simplified censorship threatens to cial Xinhua News Agency. has been crystal clear Chinese characters that crimp Google’s growth, The tensions in China throughout our discus-are used in mainland particularly if China already have prompted sions that self-censorship China. retaliates by making it Google to delay plans to is a nonnegotiable legal 
However, the results more difficult for the sell some new wireless requirement.” can’t all be accessed company to do business phones running on its In a way, Monday’s inside China, because in the country. The mobile software in the change harks back to government filters Chinese government country. A store offering how Google operated in restrict the links that can could react by blocking mobile phone applica -China before 2006. Back be clicked by mainland access to Google’s servic-tions for the Android then Chinese users could audiences. es, much as it has com-software system also search through Google 
Google plans to retain pletely shut off Facebook, remains on hold. sites such as Google.com, its engineering and sales Twitter and YouTube, “Figuring out how to although filters inside offices in China so it can which is owned by make good on our prom-China kept people there keep a technological toe-Google. ise to stop censoring from clicking through to hold in the country and In remarks carried by search on Google.cn has links generated by continue to sell ads for Chinese state media, an been hard,” David queries such as the Chinese -language unnamed official with the Drummond, Google’s top “Tiananmen Square mas-version of its search government’s State lawyer, wrote in a sacre.” 

SOUTH KOREA 
GM recalls 60,000 Korean automobiles 
Associated Press 
SEOUL — General Motors is recalling nearly 60,000 automobiles in South Korea due to potential problems with steering wheels, fuel hoses and seats, the company’s local unit and the government said Sunday. 
The recall of 58,696 vehicles will begin Monday and cover four mod­els manufactured in South Korea, said Kim Byeong-soo, a spokesman for GM Daewoo Auto & Technology Co., the country’s third-largest automaker. 
Recalls in other countries where some vehicles were exported under the Chevrolet and Opel brands will be decided and announced later in accordance with local rules, Kim said. He said China has already announced some recalls, though he did not immediately have details. 
A total of 45,957 small SUVs sold in South Korea as the Winstorm and Winstorm Maxx are being recalled due to the possibility that the steer­ing wheel can become separated. The Winstorm is exported as the Chevrolet Captiva, while the Winstorm Maxx is sold overseas as the Opel Antara, Kim said. 
A total of 12,604 Lacetti Premiere sedans — sold overseas as the Chevrolet Cruze — are being recalled for possibly defective fuel hoses that could leak, Kim said. 
Also, the company is recalling 135 of its Damas model, a small com­mercial vehicle, over materials in seats that do not meet South Korean safety standards, he said. 
Kim said no accidents have result­ed from any of the problems and the recalls were decided by GM Daewoo. 
The recalls, also announced by the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs, came after GM Daewoo’s South Korean rival Hyundai Motor Co. announced recalls last month of about 47,000 vehicles for problems with door latches. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, March 23, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Jared Jedick Sam Stryker Chris Allen Sara Felsenstein Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gamble 
Viewpoint 
Lauren Brauweiler 
COLLEGE NEWS NETWORK 
Is online privacy an oxymoron? 
We’ve all seen the scandalous celebrity pictures that put so-and-so in a compromising position — Michael Phelps and his bong, Vanessa Hudgens and her … nakedness, and, of course, most recently Snooki’s Jessica nude photos as 
Swider 
well. They get upset that their The Arbiter personal life has been invaded, shake their fist at the paparazzi and move on with life. What would hap­pen if these photos got around, after they’d been posted on someone’s Twitter or Facebook? We’d call them an idiot and tell them to get over it. 
Case in point: John McCain’s daugh­ter, Meghan McCain and her reveal­ing photo she posted on Twitter. She uploaded it, so she can’t get mad when people gripe about it. So, why then, are so many people outraged when their current, or hopeful, employers use Facebook, Twitter or Myspace to lurk a little? 
According to Career Builder’s recent survey, 45 percent of employ­ers admit to checking Facebook before hiring someone. 
Since Facebook and similar sites are commonly referred to as social-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
networking Web sites, while intended for public use, why do so many job searchers get their panties in a twist at the thought of being turned down because of a photo they posted on their page? For many students, the common answer is “because it’s my personal, private profile.”As sopho­more international relations major Erin Lionberger explained, “I think it’s kind of an invasion of privacy. The things I do and the way I act in my active and social life doesn’t neces­sarily reflect how I would be in the work life. I think it can cause unfair judgement.” 
Well, not really. When uploading photos on Facebook, users are required to check a statement saying “I certify that I have the right to dis­tribute these photos and that they do not violate the Terms of Use.” The Terms of Use basically state that Facebook can not guarantee the safe­ty of your images, and if you’re con­cerned about that, you should make your profile private. 
BYU senior and communication dis­orders major Alyssa Montierth said, “Nothing is private on the Internet. If it’s online, someone, somehow will see it. I know people who’ve lost their job because they complained about their boss on their blog and then their boss found out.” 
Facebook, Twitter, Myspace, LinkedIn and all other social net­working sites provide employers with a crucial tool for hiring workers. Twenty years ago, employers had to hire workers based solely off resumes and interviews — both things that everyone “stretches the truth” on. Of course you want to look your best. Now employers get a vital look into what kind of person you really are, and what you do on your downtime. 
The bottom line is simple: while some people may feel that their pri­vacy is being violated by a possible employer using Facebook to “check up” on them, it’s a valuable tool. If you don’t want your pictures to be seen, make your profile private, or don’t post anything that could be taken out of context, seen as compro­mising, or even illegal. (Are you lis­tening Ro Parker?) 
This column first appeared in the March 18 edition of The Arbiter, the daily publication serving Boise State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
How is your NCAA Tournament bracket doing? 
Northern Iowa killed it I'm hanging in there Very well — I know how to pick ‘em I might as well throw it away I didn't fill out a bracket 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Wheresoever you go,go with all your heart.” 
Confucius Chinese philosopher & reformer 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, March 23, 2010 page 9 
COLLEGE NEWS NETWORK 
Studying abroad gives new understanding of home 
Kids these days 
Highschoolsurewasfun,wasn’tit?A 
bus/minivantookyoutoschoolinthe 
morning,hierarchiesofsocialcircles 
ruledwhoyoutalkedtoandthewayyou 
dressed,allofyourfinancialneedswere 
metbyyourpar­
ents(havingto Danielle Flint 
buyyourown movieticketswith The Daily Titan themoneyyou earnedbagging groceriesdoesn’tcountasfinancialinde­pendence)andyourinsatiablethirstfor gossipwasnursedconsistentlybyan influxof“hesaid-shesaidandhekissed­shekissed”diatribes. 
Toobadyou’reincollegenow,huh?I knowthattheswitchwasdifficultand youmaystillbegoingthroughwithdraw­al,butthereareafewhighschool-fueled habitsthatendnow. 
1.Sleepinginclass 
Ifyoumissedclassinhighschool, chanceswereveryhighthatanangry recordedmessagewouldenduponyour parent’sansweringmachinebytheend oftheday,warningthemthatunexcused absencesleadtoalifeofcrime,debauch­eryandgeneralnastiness. 
Weknownowthatthosewarnings wereentirelytrue,buttheanswering machinemessagehasdisappeared. Why?Becauseyou’reanadult. 
Nooneisgoingtocallhomewhenyou missclass.Please,ifyou’rereallysotired that50minutesofElizabethanhistory willreduceyoutodroopyeyelidsand incoherentmuttering,stayhome.Pillows absorbthedroolbetterthanlaminated wood,andyouwon’tpersonallyinsult yourprofessor.Hometoofaraway?Irec­ommendthearboretumforamid-day nap—thegrassyhillbythepondisper­fect.AlthoughIcaution:Watchforduck poop. 
2.Walkingshouldertoshoulder 
Cliquesweremypersonalfavoritepart ofhighschool.Doingyourlipstickinthe opaquemirrorinthebathroom,making funofgirlswithcankles—ah,youth.The bestpartofhavingacliquewaswalking side-by-sidedownthehallway,arms linkedandheelsclacking. 
Youformedanimpenetrablewall, resistanttoalloutsideforces—including thepatheticnobodiestryingtofindaway aroundyou.Nowtherearemorenobod­iesthanever,completelyunawarethat you’remoreimportantthanthem,yelling sillythingslike“Moveit!”and“Don’tstop 
rightinfrontofme,you’llmakeme 
swerveandhitthatgroupofahhhhhh!” 
3.Braggingaboutexcessivedrinking 
Alcoholwasatabooandforbiddenfruit 
inhighschool.Wasyourbrother21and 
willingtobuybeerforyou?Welcometo 
popularity!Therewasn’tanyonetoogood 
tolistentoyourstoriesaboutbinge 
drinkingwithanaftermathofpainful 
purgingifitmeantyoucouldhookthem 
uptodothesame. 
Wehaveanewwordforthatkindof behavior—Alcoholism.Annoyingalco­holism.Thatstoryaboutthattimeyou gottotallydrunkandhookedupwith Amy—Bro,listen…Bro—isless impressiveandmorepathetic.Itisn’tfor­biddenanymore.Ifyouaren’t21,mostof yourfriendsare. 
Gettingalcoholisn’thard,gettingdrunk isn’ttabooandspendinganeveningwith yourgirlfriendsholdingyourhairback whileyouemptythecontentsofyour stomachintoadirtydormtoiletisn’tneat. 
4.Nonconformity 
Doyourememberthelookonyour mom’sfacethefirsttimeyouseweda “DeadKennedys”patchtothebackofthe leatherjacketshegotyouforyourbirth­day?Orthatonetimewhenyouputa safetypinthroughyourearandspit (mentally,notphysically—that’sgross) atallofthestupidconformistkidsyou wenttoschoolwith?They’reallsheep justblindlybuyingintocorporations, man. 
Youwouldhavedeepconversations abouthowdumbAbercrombie&Fitch Co.iswiththecashieratHotTopicasyou boughtafewmoreRamonespins(forthe low,lowpriceof$15.99)forthecheck­eredmessengerbagyoujustboughtat Tilly’s. 
Fakingnonconformitybydressinglike alloftheothernonconformistswasdumb then,butit’sevendumbernow.Youdon’t havethat“Oh,he’sjustbeingateenager” excuseanymore. 
Growup,buyapairofkhakisandstop tryingsohard.Leavehighschoolbehind. 
This column first appeared in the March 14 edition of The Daily Titan, the daily publication serving Cal State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Afew nights aweekIhear thembelow mybalconyinthe streets, bangingdrums and chanting.Ilookdown and seethe red flagshoisted,the white crescentandstar of the TurkishRepublic flapping,the men bundledintrench coats andmuddy 
David Joshua 
boots,their hot 
Ennings
breath visibleinthe air,the women wrappedin bright The Oklahoma hijabs, some ofthe Daily onlycolorina monthof overcast skies and endlessrain. 
Their shoutsandprotestbanners change butthe angerandthedesperation doesnot. Lastweekthe focus was therulingparty’s arrest ofhigh-rankingmilitary officials accusedofplanning acoup. This week they’ve assumed amoreanti-Americanfla­vor, protestingthe U.S. congressional panel’sresolutiontobrandthe masskillings ofArmeniansbytheOttomanEmpireas “genocide.” 
Regardless ofwhattheyprotestIalways feelan urge to join them, to besweptlong into something collective,enormousand transforming.Buttheseldomagreeable motiveofthemarch,andthetendencyfor thesegatherings to burstinto violence, often keepmeaway. 
That’swhat studying abroad,andtravel generally,is about:allowingyourselftobe transformed,allowingallthelayers ofyour ignorancetopeel away after beingburned bythe experience oflarger things. 
Days agoon theother side ofTurkey a 6.0magnitudeearthquake swallowed a number of ruralvillages.Afew thousand mud-brickhomes crumbledinto rubbleand the tall,beautiful minarets ofthe mosques toppledto the groundlikepencils. 
Thedead werealmostimmediatelyfor­gotten, assuchhorroroften unearths greaterworry,suchas:whatif,by chance, this was tohappen in aplacewhere signifi­cantly more people live, such as Istanbul? The eventiscommoditized, stripped ofall bloodand emotion, becomes abrick on whichTurkishpoliticians build acampaign. The tragedydisappearsinto thehearts of those whosufferedit. 
Iwas more than1,000kilometersaway atthe timeofthequake, travelingin Cappadocia,50yardsbeneaththe Earthin an underground citybuiltbytheHittites 4,000years ago,where persecuted Christians later hidto evadethe empires, firstRomanandthen Arab, whose armies rode back andforthacrossthe plains above. This landhas ahistory onwhich my country wouldbea blip, afreckleon the thigh. Ithasseen empires come and empires go,revolutions and counterrevolu­tions. Theshepherds Isee strolling along the hillsides,likethe hillsofyellow,swaying grass themselves, seem untouchedbythese waves ofdifferinggovernments andideolo­gies. Theylive meekly, withtheirflock and their staff, muchas theydid1,000,even 5,000yearsago. 
Ninetyfive percentofthepeopleI encounterhave neverheard ofOklahoma. Theotherfive percentincludeAmerican exchange students whohave perhaps watchedclips ofour ignorant andembar­rassing senators ontelevision, or who know ofthe Murrow bombing, themusicalor the dust-bowlbackdrop ofSteinbeck’s“Grapes ofWrath.” I’ve grown accustomedto this andhave oftenfoundthe bestwayto impresspeopleis to mention BradPitt was born there. 
Iplay upon ignorance.Inote Oklahoma has thelargestAmerican Indian population in theStates —something, anythingto make mybirthplace seem somehow exotic. Idonot mentionthe unchanginglandscape ofWal-MartsandBestBuys andfastfood chains borderingthe enormous, fast-mov­ingfreeways,travelingthrough which seems like beingspunaroundinabarber’s chair, seeingthe samevisionoverand over again. Whenpeopletalkaboutourculture they referto thingsthatareno longer pres­entinour reality: cowboys, buffalo,the wild west.But wheneverItakemy eyesfrom my computer andlook, reallylook, allIsee are Wal-Marts andBestBuysandfastfood chains.Whatdoes that mean? 
When ItalkaboutOklahoma Italk about how strongthe windis, theflathorizon, the icestorms andhow students at universities suchas OUhave come toworship college footballplayers,andthereforefuture car salesmenandburger jointproprietors. 
Stories abouttornadoes impress people the most,orperhaps descriptions ofthe religious landscape, where everywhiteper­sonisassumedto besomemanner of Christian andthestudentnewspaperopin­ion column attheleading universitycon­stantlypublishesarticlesby studentsshout­ing arguments thatGoddoes not existsim­plyto makethemselvesfeelthey’ve trans­gressed.Italkabout church camps,the songssung andtheBibleexercises andthe dementedpeopleto whom parentsentrust their children simplybecause they claim to loveJesus,whomtheyknow nothing about. 
Suchstories sendfortha thrillof exotic strangeness,abouta land others do not understand, awar-lovingsociety,a land where people embalmtheirrecently deceasedrelativesand stareatthem for days before loweringthem intothe ground. I’velivedinOklahomamostof mylife, Itell them.I’m notlying.I’veseen it. Iknow. 
Italk aboutthesethings asa meansof discovery.Ireachinsidemyselffor things thathavebeeninside me forsolongthat theyhave become invisible. Iholdthem out in front ofme for otherstopick apart. I become alienatedfrom themagain. Ifind they nolongerfitinside me. 
This is thegreat wealthoftraveling, andI encourageall studentsatOUtoconsider seriouslytheoption to study abroad.Allow the pre-conceived strangeness offoreign­ness,constructedbyyour culture, to evapo­rate in its simplicity. Allowlightto be throwninto thecornersofyourselfthatyou haveyetto discover, muchless explore. Learn to fullyunderstandandlove the place you are from. Take atrip, study else­where (themoreexotic thebetter) and begin to perceive notso muchthe over­whelmingstrangeness of others,but of yourself. 
This column first appeared in the March 11 edition of The Oklahoma Daily, the daily publication serving the University of Oklahoma. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Tuesday, March 23, 2010 



By ADRIANA PRATT 
Associate Scene Editor 
Homemade and healthy apple crisp 
No, it might not be just like Mom’s, but this home­made version of one of America’s favorite desserts will still have you licking your lips and pining for more. The best part is it’s guilt-free and just as tasty as the old-fashioned stuff. 
1bowl 
2scoops ofhot and chunky applesauce 
2scoops oflow fatgranola with raisins 
Optional: aswirl of vanilla frozen yogurt 
1. 
Head to the Homestyle section for the hot chunky applesauce. 

2. 
While it’s still sizzling, make sure to load on the granola. I’m a personal fan of a 2:1 granola-to­applesauce ratio, butfeelfree to make ityour own. 

3. 
Once you’ve loaded on the good stuff, make apit stop at the fro-yo machine and add a little creamy goodness. 


Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Scene Editor 
“Last-ditch effort” wrap with chipotle sauce 
Ever walked through the dining hall and not found anything good to eat? Every ingredient is available every day (except the chicken on Lenten Fridays). This wrap still has enough flair to fill the void. 
1 large tortilla (tomato, spinach, herbs, or honey wheat) Grilled and chopped chicken (substitute tuna 
on Fridays during Lent) Lettuce Diced tomatoes Shredded cheddar cheese Scoop of guacamole Scoop of pico de gallo Chipotle ranch sauce 
1. Grab one of the assortment of large tor­tillas found at the sandwich bar station. Tomato basil adds some color, but any type will work. 
2. Go to the Pan-American station and grab enough of the chopped grilled chicken to evenly cover a palm-sized portion of your wrap. 
3. 
Add lettuce, diced tomatoes and cheese to your liking. 

4. Sprinkle some pico de gallo into the mix. 

5. 
Spread a scoop of guacamole onto the tor­tilla. 

6. 
At the Panini grills, stir up everything with a fork, then wrap up the mix. Fold both sides in, then fold the top and bottom so you have an envelope of delicious dinner. 

7. 
Lay the wrap folded-edges down in the Panini grill and close the grill. 

8. 
Wait four or five minutes for a crispy wrap, or flip over after two minutes for a criss­crossed grill. The grilling should seal the wrap shut so it doesn’t fall apart while you’re eating it. 

9. 
Squirt a few tablespoons of chipotle ranch sauce (also found at the sandwich bar) into a dessert or salad bowl. You can spread the chipotle sauce onto your wrap bite by bite. 


Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

SOFIA ITURBE l Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene
Tuesday, March 23, 2010 page 11 

By KATHERINE GREENSPON 
Scene Writer 
Citizen Cope, also known as Clarence Greenwood, has returned from his four-year absence with new melodies, raspy lyrics and soulful pas­sion. His newest album, “The Rainwater LP,” is Greenwood’s first under his own label, Rainwater Recordings. In his first four albums he jumped from indie pop to reggae to R&B, and he nowtriesouta new soft and folk-likestyle. 
After songs like “Let the Drummer Kick,” “Son’s Gonna Rise” and “Bullet and a Target,” it is refreshing to see Greenwood takeonafresh new start. Songs on “The Rainwater LP” have less to do with love’s hardships and more to do with personal struggles and political issues we are facing as a nation today. 
Many of his new songs tackle bigger social problems. In “Lifeline,” for example, Greenwood sings, “Well the children still dying in the streets / The babies still living with disease / The copsgotguns, 

the poor folks 
got sons.” His 
lyrics leave 
listeners with 
a sense of 
truth and a 
door to reality 
through 
which many 
try to escape 
by listening to 
music. His 
voice lingers 
over every 
lyric, which 
makes listen­
ing to his music both easy and relax­
ing. Some may consider this album to be 
a dark one, but it is nonetheless very 
artistic and well thought out. 
Greenwood has drifted from his past 
work andis focusing more on his rage 
and love for singing raw lyrics with profound meaning. One of the most popular tracks on the album is “Healing Hands,” which starts off only with Greenwood’s raspy voice and his guitar. 

There is an eerie undertone to the song, but toward the end of the song lyrics like, “’Cause the violence of a few/Haveputa worldinharm’s way/ And history has proven that they / Killed our leaders 
dead,” leave fans with a lasting impression on how reality’s issues can fuse together for a brilliant and cutting-edge song. Garage drums, trum­pets and his own work on the guitar makes “Healing Hands” one of the CD’s best tracks. 
When Greenwood was asked why he released the album on his own label, he responded, “I don’t wantto be led into those confines any­more. I want to be able to do it my 
ownway.” 
His goal is to share his musicwitheveryonewhethertheylike it or not. His whinybut rhythmic voice hypnotizes audiences. Greenwood worked with many musicians on this album, including drummer Paul Edwards, keyboardist James Poyser, 
percussionist 
Bashiri Johnson and guitarists Michael Neal and Preston Crump. All the songs are available on iTunes. 
Overall, “Rainwater” is an enjoy­able album that offers new original­ity and an 
easy listen. Casual listeners might 
wantto skip over the serious meaning 
of the words, but overall, the album 
was amazingly thought-out and beau­
tifullyexecuted. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreen01@saintmarys.edu 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 23, 2010 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Top-seeded Volunteers advance to Sweet 16 
Monroe’s 16 points lead Seminoles past St. John’s in overtime; Thomas scores 15 as Blue Devils roll past LSU 
lead to 23 points, and the Lady 
Associated Press 
Vols entered halftime with a 50­
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — After 30 lead. an unprecedented early loss in “We knew we had to take the NCAAs last year, it’s back to away their inside game, so we business as usual for were hoping they wouldn’t go Tennessee. crazy on us. And they went 
The No. 1-seeded Lady crazy on us,” Dayton coach Jim Volunteers beat eighth-seeded Jabir said. “I don’t know if they Dayton 92-64 in the second do that usually. If they do, you round of the tournament on should raise the ticket prices Monday night. because that’s some really good 
Tennessee (32-2) will make its basketball.” 28th appearance in the regional At the break, Tennessee led in semifinals Saturday, this time every category except rebounds playing 350 miles from home in — something Summitt empha-Memphis. The Lady Vols’ lone sized in the first round game. absence from the round of 16 in The two teams each had 20 at the tournament’s 29-year histo-halftime. ry came after last season’s loss But the Lady Vols didn’t need to 71-55 to Ball State in the the boards as they took care of opening round. the ball on offense and scored 
And the Lady Vols are ready 13 off seven Dayton turnovers to prove that loss was an anom-in the first half. aly. Tennessee scored the first 10 
“I thought I could feel the points of the second half, and energy in the locker room, and Manning reached her career I mean they were wanting to high on a fast-break layup that get out on the court ASAP. With put the Lady Vols ahead 73-44 all that energy, I thought: with 12:11 left. Harvin and 10 each from lead changes in the first half, from the right corner cut the they’re ready to play,” coach Justine Raterman led the Chasity Clayton and Alexa St. John’s never leading by margin to two with 1:39 to play. Pat Summitt said. Flyers with 17 points. Deluzio. more than three, Florida State Monroe did the rest, tying the 
Alicia Manning scored a The Lady Vols hit 53.9 per-Nadirah McKenith scored 15 never by more than four. game at 60 a half-minute later, career-high 17 points and had cent of their shots as their lead for St. John’s (25-7), which was Harvin scored 13 of her and after St. John’s hit two free 10 rebounds and a career-high ballooned to 34 points off a trying to reach the NCAA round points before the break for the throws, Monroe delivered again seven rebounds to lead layup by Glory Johnson with of 16 for the first time. Stevens Seminoles, taking charge after with 16.7 seconds left in regu-Tennessee after fouling out of 14:59 left. The Flyers hit 41.5 had 14 points and 10 rebounds Monroe drew her second foul lation and sending the teams to the opening-round game with of their shots. despite spending much of the with 5:45 left until halftime. OT tied at 62. two points. Manning was The Flyers struggled nearly second half and overtime bat-Harvin scored eight of Florida among five Lady Vols who had every time they reached their tling leg cramps, and Joy State’s final 10 points of the Duke 60, LSU 52 double-digit scoring against end of the court. They had at McCorvey added 13 for the Red half, including a baseline Duke spent the night playing Dayton. least a half-dozen airballs in Storm. jumper that rattled in with no takeaway with LSU — first the 
“I felt like last game I kind of the first half, and Tennessee St. John’s had a chance at the time remaining. ball, then the game. let the team down getting in blocked 10 shots — six by buzzer to win it. Stevens had a It was tied five more times in Jasmine Thomas scored 15 foul trouble, so I definitely felt Kelley Cain. good look from the left wing, a three-minute stretch early in points to help Duke pull away like I needed to pick it up and And with 10 minutes to go, but her bank shot bounced off the second half, after the Red late and beat LSU on Monday make up for what I didn’t do in both Olivia Applewhite and the rim as the horn sounded, Storm seemed to survive a night in the second round of the the other game,” she said. Casey Nance had fouled out for and the Seminoles stormed scare. NCAA women’s tournament. 
Tennessee will face either No. Dayton. their home floor in celebration. Just after Shenneika Smith Bridgette Mitchell scored 12 4 Baylor or No. 5 Georgetown “Offensively I thought we just Florida State coach Sue made a jumper with 17:19 left points for the Blue Devils (29­in Memphis. looked nervous,” Jabir said. Semrau grabbed the house to get St. John’s within 37-36, 5), who went ahead to stay on 
Dayton (25-8), which man-“Justine doesn’t shoot a lot of microphone moments later, she tried to make a steal on the Thomas’ layup with 3½ minutes aged to rally from an 18-point airballs and neither does telling the home crowd that other end, slipping awkwardly left. The typically sure-handed deficit in its 67-66 win over Kendel (Ross). I think both of they couldn’t have gotten and falling to the court clutch-Tigers (21-10) matched a sea-TCU in the first round, was those guys had rim bypasses a “there” without them. ing her left knee. son high with 22 turnovers and tasked with playing only its sec-couple of times.” “There” for Florida State is Smith was carried off and had one field goal in the final 4 ond NCAA tournament game in defined as Dayton: The tended to by a trainer, then minutes. front of about 10,000 orange-Florida State 66, St. John’s 65 Seminoles next play in Sunday’s returned about 2 minutes later Allison Hightower had 19 clad fans on the court named Jacinta Monroe wasn’t ready Dayton Regional semifinals, and quickly got back into the points and LaSondra Barrett “The Summitt.” for her Florida State career to where they’ll meet the winner scoring column, rebounding her added 12 for LSU (21-10). 
A three-point play by end. of Tuesday’s game in Pittsburgh own miss and laying it in with Katherine Graham hit two free Shekinna Stricklen launched a And the Seminoles never between Ohio State (31-4) and 14:38 left to knot the game at throws with 3:49 left to give the 17-2 scoring run for Tennessee. needed her more, either. Mississippi State (20-12). 43. Tigers their last lead at 47-46. The Lady Vols had their way Monroe scored Florida State’s To say it was close throughout Florida State scored six Thomas drove the lane for a under their own basket, hitting final four points of regulation to would be a bit of an understate-straight points over a 3½-left-handed layup, and Keturah wide-open shots from the spark a last-ditch rally, then ment. minute stretch, the last four of Jackson added a stickback to perimeter and slashing the lane scored the gamewinner with Neither team ever went on a those points coming from start the 10-2 run that put the to take easy layups. 28.9 seconds left as the big run, nor was there ever a Cierra Bravard, to take a 55-53 Blue Devils on their way to 
Manning cut through the Seminoles beat St. John’s in the moment where it seemed like lead with 6:18 remaining. their 12th regional semifinal paint to hit a layup that gave second round of the NCAA one team was on the cusp of Then it was the Seminoles’ berth in 13 years. They’re Tennessee a 19-4 run with women’s tournament on taking control. turn to go scoreless, at the headed to Memphis next week­
13:31 left in the first half. Taber Monday night. And that won’t make losing absolute wrong time. end, when they will face the Spani, who hit her first seven Monroe scored a game-high any easier to accept for St. Florida State didn’t score for winner of Tuesday night’s San shots, sank a smooth 3 from the 16 points for Florida State (28-John’s either. the next 4:39, falling behind 60-Diego State-West Virginia sideline to push Tennessee’s 5), which got 15 from Alysha There were 10 ties and 12 55 before Deluzio’s 3-pointer game. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Chicago's Wrigleyville three bed­room, 2 1/2 bath. Rent from an alum. Move in after graduation day $1950; lglunziv@registech.com 773 307 9010 
WANTED 
WANTED, Apple iPhone SDK developers. Contact daniel@miSoft.com. ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
Summer Camp Counselor for chil­dren w/disabilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $10-$15.25 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Visit www.akroncyo.org to down­load an application from the Careers link. EOE ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's web site: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu ——————————————— Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898 Homes, Apartments, Offices Affordable and Relaible 
——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http.csap.nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
House 3 bed, 3 bath, new rehab/clean, so close to ND you can see campus from the yard! Email alexrock@rock.com! 
——————————————— ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Fenced yard, 2-car garage. Security. Near ND. 262-332-0015. 
——————————————— 
For rent: Furnished 4 bedroom house 5 blocks from campus. Off street parking, security system, central air. Nice. Only $350.00 a month each. Call 574-289-4071. 
——————————————— gradrentals.viewwork.com ——————————————— I have no idea to this day what those two Italian ladies were singing about. Truth is, I don't want to know. Some things are best left unsaid. I'd like to think they were singing about some­thing so beautiful, it can't be expressed in words, and makes your heart ache because of it. I tell you, those voices soared higher and farther than anybody in a gray place dares to dream. It was like some beautiful bird flapped into our drab little cage ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Tuesday, March 23, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 13 
Men’s Division I Baseball USA Today Poll 
team previous 
1 Arizona State 3 2 Virginia 4 3 LSU 1 4 Georgia Tech 5 5 Florida State 2 6 Texas 6 7 Clemson 7 8 TCU 9 9 Louisville 11 10 UCLA 13 11 Florida 8 12 Coastal Carolina 10 13 Oklahoma 15 14 Miami 14 15 Arkansas 16 16 Vanderbilt 20 17 North Carolina 12 18 Oregon State 18 19 Mississippi 17 20 Kentucky 22 21 Alabama 25 22 Rice 19 23 Texas A&M NR 24 UC Irvine 24 25 Kansas State NR 
Men’s Division I Tennis 
ITA Poll  
team  previous  
1  Virginia  1  
2  Tennessee  2  
3  Southern California  5  
4  Ohio State  3  
5  Texas  4  
6  Kentucky  8  
7  Florida  7  
8  UCLA  6  
9  Georgia  11  
10  Illinois  12  
11  California  10  
12  Stanford  9  
13  Mississippi  15  
14  Louisville  13  
15  Texas Tech  18  
16  Baylor  14  
17  Wake Forest  20  
18  Washington  22  
19  Florida State  19  
20  Oklahoma  21  
21  Virginia Tech  16  
22  Fresno State  NR  
23  BYU  23  
24  Pepperdine  NR  
25  Michigan  NR  



aroundthe dial 
NHL Hockey 
Sharks at Wild 8 p.m., Versus 
NCAA Women’s Basketball 
No. 8 UCLA vs. No. 1 Nebraska 9:35 p.m., ESPN2 
PGA 

Woods: ‘I’ve done some pretty bad things’ 
Associated Press 
Tiger Woods acknowledged “living a lie,” saying he alone was responsible for the sex scandal that caused his shocking downfall from glob­al sporting icon to late-night TVpunchline. 
“It was all me. I’m the one who did it. I’m the one who actedthewayIacted.No one knew what was going on when it was going on,” Woods told the Golf Channel in one of two interviews Sundaynight. 
A second one was aired on ESPN, which will also tele­vise the first two rounds of the Masters. Woods plans to end four months of seclusion andreturntogolfatthetour­nament next month. Talking about those plans marked the only time he smiled dur­ingeitherinterview. 
“I’m sure if more people would have known in my inner circle, they would have stopped it or tried to put a stop to it,” he told the Golf Channel. “But I kept it all to myself.” 
Laterinthesameinterview with reporter Kelly Tilghman, Woods refers to his serial adultery by saying, “I tried to stop and I couldn’t stop. And it was just, it was horrific.” 
Woods answered questions on camera for the first time since his early morning car crash last November, yet again divulged few details about the crash, his mar­riage, his stint in a rehabili­tation clinic or his personal life. Woods insisted those matters would remain pri­vate, just as he had in a statement on his Web site right after his crash and again Feb. 19 when he apol­ogized on camera in front of a hand-picked audience but tooknoquestions. 
“A lot of ugly things have happened. ... I’ve done some pretty bad things in my life,” hetoldESPN’sTomRinaldi. 
Last week, a woman who claims to be one of Woods’ mistresses released an embarrassing transcript of text messages she said he senther. 
Woods admitted that four months of nearly nonstop public ridicule had caused himshame. 
“It was hurtful, but then again, you know what? I did it,” he told the Golf Channel. “And I’m the one who did those things. And looking back on it now, with a more clear head, I get it. I can understand why people would say those things. Because you know what? It was disgusting behavior. It’s hard to believe that was me, lookingbackonitnow.” 
Woods announced Dec. 11 thathe wouldtake an “indef­inite break” from golf and was in a Mississippi clinic from the end of that month until early February. Asked by ESPN to describe the low­est point, he replied, “I’ve had a lot of low points. Just when I didn’t think it could getanylower,itgotlower.” 
IN BRIEF 
Dolphins’ Brown arrested for DUI in Atlanta area 
ATLANTA — Miami Dolphins run­ning back Ronnie Brown, who had been in the suburban Atlanta area to help celebrate his parents’ anniver­sary, was arrested on a charge of driving under the influence of alcohol and released from jail a few hours later, officials said Monday. 
The 28-year-old fifth-year pro was arrested at 4:29 a.m. Saturday, Marietta Police Officer Jennifer Murphy said. Marietta is about 15 miles northwest of Atlanta. 
Brown’s mother, Joyce Brown, told The Associated Press in a phone interview on Monday that Brown was visiting his hometown of Cartersville for her and her husband’s 32nd anniversary. She said he had eaten dinner with relatives and then went to a club. She didn’t know the name of the club, but the night was not part of the anniversary celebration. 
NFL commish Goodell plansto meet with Roethlisberger 
ORLANDO, Fla. — NFL commission­er Roger Goodell plans to meet with Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger about the star’s off-field problems. 
Goodell already has spoken with team owners about Roethlisberger, who is accused of assaulting a 20­year-old college student in a Georgia nightclub on March 5. Roethlisberger’s attorney says the quarterback committed no crime. Roethlisberger has yet to be inter­viewed by police in Milledgeville, Ga., and charges have not been filed. 
“We take this issue very seriously,” Goodell said Monday at the NFL meetings. “I am concerned that Ben continues to put himself in this posi­tion. 
“I spoke with the Steelers and (team president) Art Rooney about it and, at some point, I will be meeting with Ben at the appropriate time.” 
Pujols receives MRI, anti-
inflammatory shot for back 
JUPITER, Fla. — St. Louis Cardinals slugger AlbertPujols got an anti-inflam­matory shot Monday for tightness in his back and is expected to be out of action forthenextcoupleofdays. 
Thethree-timeNLMVPmissedaweek this spring because of lower back pain he described as feeling like spasms. Pujols returnedto playin five exhibition games before being pulled from the lineupagainstBoston. 
“He received an MRI today and then an injection to put him over the hump, make him feel better,” Cardinals gener­al manager John Mozeliak said. “He’s day to day. We’ll see how he feels on Wednesday.” 
TheCardinalsareoffTuesday. 
Mozeliak said Pujols has felt some dis­comfort in recent days. Asked whether he thoughtthe star firstbaseman’s back couldbe a chronic concern throughout the season, Mozeliak said: “I don’t get that sense.” 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 23, 2010 
NBA 
Jordan cautious in free agent market 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Picture the NBA free agency period beginning and Michael Jordan is on the phone mak­ing a recruiting pitch to LeBron James. 
It’s one the perks for the Charlotte Bobcats now that the Hall of Famer owns the team. Only being a big player in free agency isn’t on Jordan’s agenda — or even possible. 
Unlike the New York Knicks, New Jersey Nets and Chicago Bulls, the Bobcats have no salary-cap space to participate in the summer free agency bonanza that could include James, Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh and Amare Stoudemire. 
And Jordan doesn’t mind. In moving from a minority investor with the final say on personnel decisions to the first former player be a majority owner of an NBA son after a flurry of deals. 
At the urging of coach Larry Brown, the Bobcats have made seven trades involving 21 players since the start of last season. It’s Jordan’s preferred way to improve the roster instead of through free agency and the draft, with the Bobcats owing future first-round picks to Minnesota and Chicago because of past deals. 
Those trades, including Stephen Jackson’s acquisition in November, have put the six-year-old Bobcats (35-34) one win shy of a franchise season record and in seventh place in the Eastern Conference. 
“I’d like to give my team another year to bond and blend together and see if we can take it further, or we can find something along the road to get us over the hump,” Jordan said. “The thing about this team that people tend to forget is we haven’t been 
team, Jordan “I think we have the together a year is preaching ingredients to compete yet.” 
patience with Jordan said 
and surpass a lot of
his roster. He he wasn’t is vowing not expectations.” going to “box to get into lux-myself into” ury tax territo-saying if he 
Michael Jordan 
ry with his felt the current 
Bobcats owner
payroll and showing dis­taste for what he feels is overblown hype for free agency this summer. 
“That doesn’t guarantee that New York is going to be in the playoffs,” Jordan said shortly after his $275 million purchase of the team was approved last week. “Everybody is second-guess­ing themselves. I like where we are. If I were to unload everybody on our team just so we can clear (salary-cap) space, does that mean they’re going to come to Charlotte? It’s no guarantee.” 
The six-time NBA champion faces a number of issues as he takes over a club that’s expected to lose more than $30 million this season. Besides trying to boost ticket sales and strike sponsorship deals, he’ll continue to have the final say on basketball decisions. 
Jordan acknowledged he has “little wiggle room right now” with the salary cap. He indicated they have commit­ted between $57-59 million in payroll for next season, and that doesn’t include impend­ing free agents Raymond Felton and Tyrus Thomas. 
Jordan said the league office has told teams the lux­ury tax threshold — where teams will have to pay a dol­lar for dollar tax for going over — could be as low as $61 million next season. 
“If it’s around $65 (million), we still have roughly $8 mil­lion to play with to stay underneath the luxury tax,” Jordan said. “I don’t see a need to go over the luxury tax unless we go deep (in the playoffs) and we’re a player away or we’re close. I would (then) entertain that idea.” 
The Bobcats have gotten into playoff position this sea-core of players 
that includes 
Jackson, All-
Star Gerald Wallace, Felton, Thomas and Tyson Chandler could develop into a contending team. 
Actually, Jordan isn’t sure of the best way to construct a championship roster. 
“There are very few Kobe Bryants out there. LeBron hasn’t won yet. Dwyane Wade had Shaq (O’Neal) sitting next to him and he had Pat Riley coaching him. So there are a lot of other components that come into play to say if you’re an NBA championship team,” Jordan said. “Detroit did a great job in winning and they had no one super­star on that team. Boston won with three All-Stars. The Lakers won with two All-Stars. 
“To say what’s the clear cut ingredient to win a champi­onship, I don’t know. I really, really don’t know. I think we have the ingredients to com­pete and surpass a lot of expectations.” 
But the Bobcats could sure use another star. And if they clear some cap space in the future, Jackson thinks Jordan could lure big names to Charlotte. 
“If Michael calls you, that’s a call you’re going to pick up,” Jackson said Monday. “He’s such a big figure in this game, if not the biggest. He has a lot of pull and a lot of clout, so I think anything is possible with him being an owner.” 
The 47-year-old Jordan may have sway with players who grew up idolizing him, but he’s not about to overpay for talent or be a buddy to the players. 
He understands the obsta­cles ahead to make the Bobcats a winner on the court and the box office. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Post players help Duke advance 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. — Duke’s “Big Three” handle most of the scoring. It’s the big men doing the dirty work under­neath who have helped the Blue Devils advance to the round of 16. 
What was considered a seri­ous liability for Duke — a lack of reliable size in the paint — has become an unsung strength. The Blue Devils are better equipped to deal with the off nights that sometimes plague teams that thrive on 3­point shooting. 
Kyle Singler, Jon Scheyer and Nolan Smith combine to average 67 percent of the team’s points. But in years past, a cold shooting night by any of them might have led to an early exit from the NCAA tournament. 
That hasn’t been a problem this time. Not with center Brian Zoubek dominating the lane, gritty senior Lance Thomas playing with unmatched emotion and 6­foot-10 brothers Miles and Mason Plumlee filling valu­able roles off the bench. 
“This team has so much tal­ent and so much potential. Every game, somebody steps up, and that’s the exciting thing about this team,” Smith said after a second-round win against California. “We might not shoot good every game, but we play defense and play hard, and any game, some­body is going to surprise you.” 
Lately, that’s been Zoubek 
— well, at least to outsiders, anyway. 
The 7-foot-1 senior had 14 points and 13 rebounds in the win against Cal, and he’s reached double figures in rebounds in six of the last 12 games of his late-season surge. 
But his value to the No. 1 seeded Blue Devils (31-5) can’t be measured solely by his stat line. His presence in the paint and his knack for cleaning up misses from Singler and Scheyer has given the team an added weapon, with coach Mike Krzyzewski calling him one of the team’s unsung heroes. 
The Hall of Fame coach said in the preseason that this was his biggest team in three decades at Duke, and Zoubek is making that claim mean something. 
Scheyer was 1-for-11 against Cal, but Zoubek helped make up for that cold spell with his rebounding and his 6-for-6 shooting perform­ance from his low-post com­fort zone. Thomas added nine rebounds. 
“It was a really tough game inside, a lot of elbows thrown, a lot of contact,” Zoubek said. “Both teams were playing hard, and we knew that the rebounding was going to be an essential part of the game, so both teams were fighting for it. I know that (Cal’s Jamal) Boykin and (Markhuri Sanders-Frison) were really being physical underneath, and I know that, for me, with­out Lance being just as physi­cal or more physical than them, I wouldn’t have gotten a lot of rebounds, and I wouldn’t have gotten a lot of stuff.” 
That steady play in the paint has kept the Blue Devils immune from the upsets and close calls that have plagued so many high seeds in this year’s tournament. 
Duke won its first two South Regional games by 29 and 15 points to reach the regional semifinals for the 19th time under Krzyzewski, and the Blue Devils face a manage­able path to their coach’s 11th Final Four and first since 2004. 
If they get past a fourth-seeded Purdue team in Houston that’s playing with­out injured star Robbie Hummel, they’ll face either No. 3 seed Baylor or upstart No. 10 seed Saint Mary’s with an invitation to Indianapolis on the line. 
That would fall in line with the incremental progress the seniors have made through the years. They were knocked out in the first round as fresh­men in 2007, were beaten in Round 2 as sophomores and advanced to the regional semifinals last year. 
“We’re a better team this year. I don’t know if we’ll go any further, but this is a bet­ter team because it can play total defense,” Krzyzewski said. “Someone will say in the past, well, they relied on the 3-point shot. Well, what else were we going to rely on? We relied on it enough to win 30 games 
“Just because then you lose, doesn’t mean those kids underachieved. They maxed. This team is better. It’s not a great team, but it’s an excel­lent defensive team that hopefully can be a little bit better offensively as we go forward.” 

Tuesday, March 23, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
PGA 
Veteran Furyk wins first event in 32 months 
Associated Press 
PALM HARBOR, Fla. — A PGA Tour winner again after 32 long months, Jim Furyk walked into an interview room at Innisbrook with a three-page transcript that had been folded in half. 
It wasn’t a statement or a speech. They weren’t even his words. 
As Furyk was finishing off a messy 18th hole that wrapped up a most beautiful victory at the Transitions Championship, ESPN and the Golf Channel broadcast the first interviews of Tiger Woods since his Nov. 27 accident, which set off a shocking sex scandal that has dominated sports news the last four months. 
Furyk, one of the closest players to Woods on tour, feigned disappointed and joked, “No one was watching me, then.” 
Considering how long it had been since his last tour victory — 58 tournaments over 32 months dating to the 2007 Canadian Open — he didn’t seem terribly bothered. 
“You know what? Tomorrow, the paper is going to read that I won the golf tournament, and I don’t really care if it’s a three-page spread or a little blurb in the corner of the paper because the article is about him,” Furyk said. 
“I won the damn thing, and it really doesn’t matter to me.” 
The timing was coincidental in at least one respect. 
While it only counted in the world ranking, Furyk won the Chevron World Challenge against a world-class field of 18 players in December, a tournament hosted by Woods when this sordid saga was just beginning to unfold. 
This was more about Furyk, and a badly needed victory. 
He almost wanted it too badly. 
The facts — no matter how much space or attention they receive — will show that Furyk closed with a 2-under 69 for a one-shot victory over K.J. Choi, and that he earned $972,000 for his 14th career victory. 
It was a final round that was at times brilliant, at times slop­py, and uncertain to the very end, which includes weather delays of nearly six hours that left in doubt whether the tour­nament would end on Sunday. 
Whenever he felt the most pressure, Furyk answered with crisp iron shots and clutch putts. No sooner had he built a cushion, Furyk managed to keep it interesting with bogeys, including a trio of three-putt bogeys on the par 3s. 
He simply couldn’t get out of his way. 
“I made it difficult, there’s no doubt,” said Furyk, who fin­ished at 13-under 271. “It seemed like every time K.J. got close ... I was able to bounce right back and hit some really good shots, make a bunch of birdies and get some more dis­tance. And then as soon as I got the distance, I went back to making that same mistake again, or he played well.” 

It worked out in the end, but getting there was quite the ride. 
As a small consolation prize, being the runner-up meant Choi goes from No. 75 to No. 47 in the world ranking, and he only needs to stay in the top 50 after the Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill this week to secure an invitation to the Masters. 
Upon hearing this news, Choi raised his arms in strongman style with a wide grin. 
“It’s actually better than what I thought I would be at this point,” Choi said. “So defi­nitely I’ve exceeded my expec­tations. All I can say is I will try my best next week to main­tain or better that position.” 
Equally surprising is that he had a chance — several of them — as did Bubba Watson, who shot 68 and finished third. 
Furyk had a three-shot lead, which was erased by Choi’s four birdies through six holes. The turning point for Furyk came at the par-3 eighth, when he rolled in a birdie and Choi missed the green and made bogey, a two-shot swing that Choi never made up. 
Furyk knocked in a 35-foot birdie putt on the 12th as Watson was starting to make a move, and after Furyk three-putted the 13th, he answered with another splendid shot, a knockdown 8-iron from 136 yards into the breeze to 3 feet for birdie on the par-5 14th. 
And then came another three-putt bogey. 
Furyk failed to hit the green in regulation on the final two holes, but he escaped with pars on the first two — a lag from 80 feet off the green on the 16th to tap-in range, and a superb bunker shot from sand that had been washed out by the earlier rain to 8 feet on the 17th. 
More negative thinking crept into his head. Furyk had hit the ball beautifully on the 18th all week, but knowing that a tee shot left could lead to a big number, he hit right into the trees. Trying to advance the ball close to the green, he hit what Furyk called a half-shank that nearly took out NBC Sports reporter Roger Maltbie. 
“I have a habit of making it tough on myself,” Furyk said. “Just nerves got me, to be hon­est with you.” 
From a good lie in the rough, Furyk kept his shot pin-high and removed all drama by lag­ging that par putt to an inch, assured victory when Choi failed to chip in for birdie from just short of the green. 
And that’s when the Woods interview began, although it was only about five minutes. 
“Pretty much the same stuff that we already knew,” said Furyk, who managed to scan one page of the transcript. “But I think it’s good for him to get his face out there and have people see him. They are going to make their judgments, but I think it allows him to kind of move on and get focused for the next thing.” 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 23, 2010 
MLB 
Reds’ Chapman leaves win with back injury 
Phillies’ Valdez hits walk-off homer to beat Yankees; Duchscherer debuts with four scoreless innings for Athletics 
do. season as the Oakland 
Associated Press 
“We wanted to build on Athletics beat Seattle Monday. 
GOODYEAR, Ariz. — what we felt good about the Duchscherer allowed four Cincinnati Reds left-hander last 4½ months. Can we run hits, walked one and struck Aroldis Chapman has run into the bases better than we did out one in a pain-free outing. his first setback of spring last year? Can we put the ball The 32-year-old righty training, and it has nothing to in play more with two called his spring debut “awe-do with his control. strikes? So far, we’ve been some.” He missed all of 2009 
The Cuban defector left the doing that.” with season because of elbow game early Monday because surgery and depression. of a stiff lower back, which Phillies 9, Yankees 7 Seattle’s Ian Snell allowed has been bothering him for Wilson Valdez homered off six earned runs and seven several days. The Colorado Phil Hughes with two outs in hits and four innings to raise Rockies scored four times in the ninth inning and the his spring ERA to 6.92. Snell his final inning and pulled Philadelphia Phillies beat the is one of the few healthy, away to a 9-1 victory. New York Yankees Monday. experienced starters remain-
Brad Eldred went 3 for 4 Starters Cole Hamels of the ing behind ace Felix with two homers and three Phillies and A.J. Burnett of Hernandez to begin the RBIs for Rockies. the Yankees combined to Mariners’ season. 
The 22-year-old Chapman allow 11 runs and 16 hits in has been the talk of the Reds’ eight innings. Angels 4, Dodgers 2 camp with a fastball that has Mark Teixeira went 4 for 4 Hideki Matsui was in left been clocked at 100 mph. He with a home run and double field for the first time this dominated Milwaukee batters for the Yankees. Dane spring as the Los Angeles in his previous outing last Sardinha homered, doubled Angels beat a Los Angeles Wednesday, striking out five and drove in four runs for the Dodgers split-squad on in three innings while giving Phillies. Monday. up only one hit. His strong Sardinha, Valdez and Ben Matsui, who signed a free-showings made him a candi-Francisco homered off agent deal with the Angels date for the fifth starter’s Hughes. over the winter, hasn’t played spot. “He was up,” manager defense in a regular-season Randy Ruiz hit a two-out, innings for the Nationals, 
The back problems could Charlie Manuel said of game since June 15, 2008, for two-run shot in the second yielding three runs and seven change that equation. Hamels, who had been sharp the New York Yankees against inning for Toronto. It was his hits. 
“I’m not hurt,” Chapman this spring. “He threw a lot of the Houston Astros. third homer of the spring. said, speaking through a fastballs and when you get Matsui did not have any Royals 9, White Sox 5 coach acting as a translator. stretched out, you go through balls hit his way and was Nationals 7, Mets 5 Gil Meche pitched three “I had a little stiffness in my that period in spring training. removed for a pinch runner Ryan Zimmerman and Josh innings Monday before leav­lower back. It has been both-He was up in the strike zone, in the fifth inning after going Willingham each hit two ing the Kansas City Royals’ ering me for a couple days. I with his off-speed stuff, too.” 1 for 2. homers off Mets starter Mike victory over the Chicago was able to work through it in Hamels, who entered the Jeff Mathis homered and Pelfrey, leading the White Sox with a sore right the first inning, but it didn’t day with a 1.69 ERA in three drove in three runs for the Washington Nationals to a shoulder. get loose in the second spring starts, allowed seven Angels. Joe Saunders gave up victory over New York on Meche allowed three runs inning.” runs (six earned) and nine two runs and four hits in five Monday. and four hits, struck out one 
Bronson Arroyo pitched the hits in four innings. His innings. Zimmerman hit a towering, and walked one. He threw 31 first five innings, allowing the spring ERA jumped to 4.91. Carlos Monasterios, an out-wind-aided solo drive in the of his 56 pitches for strikes. first of Eldred’s home runs. Hamels said he was uncon-side candidate for the first inning, and a two-run Jake Peavy was hit hard Chapman got into the game in cerned with his stats since he Dodgers’ fifth starter spot, shot in the fifth. Willingham during his three innings for the sixth, with manager Dusty was using the outing to work gave up three runs and four had a solo shot in the second the White Sox, yielding seven Baker planning to let him fin-almost exclusively on fine-hits in four innings. and a two-run homer in the runs and 10 hits. ish the game. tuning his fastball. fourth. Bobby Jenks followed Peavy 
The left-hander pitched a “Now is the time I want to Indians 9, Cubs 2 Pelfrey was charged with and struck out one in a per-perfect sixth, but gave up a get the fastball going and hit Fausto Carmona threw six six runs, five earned, and fect inning. It was the closer’s pair of walks and a pair of my spots,” said Hamels, who scoreless innings to help the seven hits in 4 2/3 innings. first spring game since March hits in the seventh before is scheduled to follow ace Roy Cleveland Indians beat the Jason Marquis pitched 4 2/3 12 because of a calf injury. leaving as a precaution. An Halladay in the team’s rota-Chicago Cubs on Monday. error set up Jordan Pacheco’s tion. “I thought I was doing a Carmona allowed two hits, three-run double, helping pretty good job, but then in both by Alfonso Soriano, and Colorado score four unearned the fourth inning, I was cut-walked none. The big right-runs in the inning. ting it off unintentionally and hander was 19-8 with a 3.06 
The left-hander said it was I definitely wasn.t releasing ERA in 2007 before going 13­more difficult to throw his the ball where I wanted to 19 with a 5.89 ERA over the fastball because of the stiff and it wasn.t going where I next two years. He has been back. needed it to. A lot of the plagued by wildness but he 
“There was less effort to pitches missed over the heart has issued only two walks in throw my slider than my fast-of the plate.” 13 spring innings. ball,” Chapman said. “I’ve Hamels entered the fourth Jeff Samardzija, in his final never had back problems with a 5-2 lead, but run-scor-start before the Cubs before.” ing doubles by Kevin Russo announce their season-open-
Arroyo gave up three runs and Eduardo Nunez and a ing rotation this week, gave and four hits in five innings, two-run home run by Teixeira up two runs and four hits in including Eldred’s solo homer gave New York a 7-5 lead. four innings. and a two-run shot by Clint Unlike Hamels, Burnett’s Carlos Silva has outpitched Barmes. trouble came early. The Samardzija, who could be 
“I had better command than Phillies scored five runs in headed to the bullpen. the last few times,” Arroyo the first inning. One day after hitting two said. “In this dry air, it’s one After Jimmy Rollins lead off homers and driving in five or the other — my breaking with a double, Placido runs, Cleveland’s Austin ball is no good or my change-Polanco hit a two-run home Kearns went 2 for 2 and up doesn’t have any sink. run to right-center. Ryan scored twice. Today I didn’t have any sink Howard, Jayson Werth and on my changeup, but my Raul Ibanez all reached base Tigers 8, Blue Jays 2 breaking ball was OK. Last and scored when Sardinha hit Brandon Inge hit a three-time it was flip-flopped.” a bases-clearing double. run homer and the Detroit 
Jorge De La Rosa gave up a “I attacked and they swung Tigers beat the Toronto Blue leadoff homer to Drew early,” said Burnett, who will Jays on Monday. Stubbs. He allowed three hits follow CC Sabathia in the Nate Robertson pitched 4 in 5 1/3 innings, striking out Yankees’ rotation. “They 1/3 innings for the Tigers, five. Cincinnati managed only weren’t bad pitches. They yielding two runs and five five hits overall. came out swinging. It’s not hits. The left-hander struck 
Manager Jim Tracy is how you start, it’s how you out four and walked two. pleased with how the Rockies’ finish.” Inge connected in the first camp has gone so far. against Brian Tallet, who is 
“We’re just getting ready,” Athletics 7, Mariners 2 expected to be Toronto’s fifth Tracy said. “We’re just doing Two-time All-Star Justin starter but had a rough time our thing from day to day and Duchscherer threw four against Detroit. He allowed having a ball. We didn’t want scoreless innings while facing five runs and eight hits in five to make a lot of changes. We major league hitters for the innings. just wanted to work very hard first time in 19 months, then Ryan Raburn also homered on trying to perfect what we declared himself ready for the for Detroit. 


Tuesday, March 23, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Vermont 
continued from page 20 
McGraw said in a press confer­ence Monday. “They are a really poised, veteran team, and an experienced team that doesn’t beat themselves. They don’t make a lot of mistakes, that was probably the thing we looked at first, how few turnovers they had in the game which is something we want to attribute to their senior guards.” 
Catamounts guards May Kotsopoulos and Courtnay Pilypaitis lead their team with 
17.3 and 14.8 points per game, respectively. Pilypaitis, a taller guard at 6-foot-1, also aver­ages eight rebounds per game. 
“Put [Pilypaitis] next to Skylar [Diggins] and she looks a lot bigger,” McGraw said. “That’s a concern of how we are going to guard them. Pilypaitis is quick and a very good shooter, so we have to figure out the matchups and who do we want on her for most of the time and how many different things can we do.” 
Notre Dame came out a little tight against Cleveland State Sunday, allowing the Vikings to stay relatively close through­out the first half before pulling away in the second half for an 86-58 win. McGraw attributed the problem to having to sit through the Vermont-Wisconsin game before getting a chance to play — something the Irish will not have to do tonight. 
“That is difficult when you are just sitting around and waiting for the game to begin,” she said. “I think the adrena­line’s flowing and you’re watching the game thinking about your own game and just want to get out there. I think by the first timeout we were kind of tired, a little bit drained because of the adrena­line rush of the whole tourna­ment and getting out there finally.” 
Junior forward Becca Bruszewski led the Irish with 14 points Sunday, though three players scored in double digits and 11 players put points on the board. 
“We are an all-around team,” freshman guard Skylar Diggins said at Monday’s press conference. 
Diggins, who led the team in rebounds, assists and steals Sunday but did not post her usual offensive numbers, said she was nervous before the game but praised her team­mates for getting it done off of the bench. 
The winner of Tuesday’s game will advance to the Sweet 16 in Kansas City, Mo., to play the winner of a second-round game between No. 3­seed Oklahoma and No. 11­seed Arkansas-Little Rock. That game will take place tonight at 9:45 p.m. 
The Irish and the Catamounts tip off at 7:16 p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
NBA 
Spurs win despite Durant’s 45 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — George Hill scored a career-high 27 points, and the San Antonio Spurs overcame Kevin Durant’s 45 to beat the Oklahoma City Thunder 99-96 on Monday night and forge a tie between the teams for sixth place in the Western Conference standings. 
Serge Ibaka swatted away Tim Duncan’s layup try to give the Thunder a chance with 
8.8 seconds left, but Thabo Sefolosha missed a 3-pointer from the left wing with 5 sec­onds remaining after he was left open because of a double-team against Durant. 
Manu Ginobili then hit one of two free throws with 2.3 seconds left, and Russell Westbrook couldn’t connect on a halfcourt shot at the buzzer to tie it for the Thunder. 
Durant matched his season high and helped Oklahoma City close a six-point deficit in the final 4 minutes. His 13­foot jumper tied the game at 96 with 48 seconds left. 
Ginobili was fouled on a drive to the basket on San Antonio’s ensuing possession and sank both of his free throws. Westbrook turned the ball over by stepping on the sideline on his inbounds pass, but Ibaka came up with a big stop for Oklahoma City. 
Sefolosha’s open 3 from the left wing hit both the back and front of the rim before bounding away. The Thunder had a six-game home winning streak snapped and lost back-to-back games for the first time in a month. 
Hill has been taking on a bigger role for the Spurs since point guard Tony Parker was sidelined with a broken bone in his right hand that has kept him out for the last nine games. But no game was big­ger than this one. 
Ginobili added 21 points, Duncan scored 14 and reserve Roger Mason Jr. had 13 points. 
Jeff Green had 16 points, Westbrook 12 and Ibaka 10 for Oklahoma City. 
NBA 
Paul’s return to court sparks Hornets’ win 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Chris Paul played for the first time in 25 games, and Marcus Thornton scored 28 points to help the Hornets to a115-99 victory over theDallasMavericks onMonday night. 
Returning from a left knee injury, Paul started but was lim­ited to 21 minutes and had 11 points. He helped New Orleans pull away in the fourth quarter, but rookie Darren Collison ran the floor when the Hornets had a remarkable run of 23 straight points from late in the second quarter until early in the third to take a lead they would not relinquish. 
David West had 25 points and 10 assists, Morris Peterson had a season-high 20 points and Collison scored 16 for the Hornets. 
Jason Terry scored 24 for Dallas, which squandered a 16­pointfirst-quarterlead. 
After shooting only 32 percent in the first quarter (7 of 22), the Hornets went 38 of 61 (62 per­cent) from the field during the restofthegame. 
The Hornets led 60-45 after their 23-0 run. The closest Dallas got after that was when Jason Terry hit a 3 to make it 73-66 with 3:06 to go in the thirdperiod. 
Peterson responded with a 3, andsoon after,Westhita couple ofjumpersandhadastealtoset up Collison’s fast-break dunk to put the Hornets up 82-70 head­ingintothefourthquarter. 
Darius Songaila opened the fourth quarter with a jumper from the top ofthe key andPaul scoredhis firstpoints on abase-line fade with 11:05 remaining in the game. Paul later added three 3-pointers as the Hornets builtaleadaslargeas21. 
Dallas still finished shooting 52 percent (42 of 81), but was hurt by porous defense and 20 turnovers, which the Hornets converted into 35 points. Dirk Nowitzki scored 16 points for the Mavericks, while Shawn Marion added 14 and Caron Butler12. 
Paul’s return energized the crowd during pregame intro­ductions, but the Hornets strug­gledoutofthegate. 
Marion’s steal and fast-break dunk capped an early 17-2 run that staked Dallas to a 19-5 lead. Dallas shot 67 percent (14 of 21) in the first quarter, including 4 of 5 from 3-point range, and the first of Terry’s two 3s in the quarter stretched the Mavericks’ lead 27-11. His second3madeit32-16. 
The Hornets responded with a stunning second quarter, with Collison, who had eight assists, the most by a Hornets reserve thisseason. 
An 11-2 run early in the sec­ond quarter, capped by West’s jump hook over Nowitzki, got the Hornets back in it at 36-30. Dallas built its lead back to 11 on Butler’s jumper, which made it 43-32. That’s when New Orleans took over, outscoring the Mavs 22-2duringthe rest of theperiodtovaultintothelead. 
Peterson, who had 14 points in the first half, started the run with a layup and a 3 from the corner. After Rodrigue Beaubois hit a tough layup for Dallas, West came back with six straight points on a reverse layup and two jumpers. Collison followed with a jumper and a putback of Thornton’s fast-break miss. Songaila scored on a heady bounce pass from James Posey on an inbound play. Then Thornton hit a fast-break layup to cap a 15-0 Hornets run to close the period, giving New Orleans a 52-45 halftimelead. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 23, 2010 
Hilling 
continued from page 20 
are amazing,” Hilling said. “Just the fact that the first season for this stadium is my freshman season is so cool, and it’s a huge reason I’m here.” 
Hilling and the Irish will return to Arlotta Stadium Wednesday for a 2:30 p.m. game against Vanderbilt. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 
Equestrians qualify eight for Regionals 
Eastern 
continued from page 20 
upset over then-No. 14 Ohio State. 
Eastern Michigan (6-11) has­n’t started as well as Notre Dame, but Gumpf said the Irish won’t overlooktheir opponent. 
“I expect Eastern Michigan to be a scrappy team who will give us their very best game,” Gumpf said. 
Gumpf said the focus of recent Irish practices have been to improve the team’s defense to continue to force opponents to earn the runs they score. 
“At this point in the season, we are focusing on defensive situations, really trying to keep the situations fresh, and also keeping the team in pressure situations as much as possible,” Gumpf said. 
In the offensive portion of the game, the Irish are coming off a 12-5 victory in their last contest against Western Michigan Thursday, and Notre Dame feels confident in its ability to perform at the plate. 
“Each practice the team is getting their reps, but we also try incorporate situational hit­ting in every practice,” Gumpf said. 
Tuesday’s games will begin at 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. at Melissa CookStadium. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s put up a strong showing this weekend when they qualified eight riders for Regionals. 
Celina Tolson placed first in novice fences while freshman Mia Genereux placed first in open flat. Sophomore Amanda Leon also posted a first place finish in the advanced walk­trot-canter. All three equestri­ans qualified to compete in Zones, the final step before Nationals. 
Making a strong showing in their own right, graduate stu­dent Jennifer Gilardi took third in intermediate fences with Krista Jones also entered in the event. Tolson placed third in novice flat, with teammates Victoria Scheid and sophomore Mana Espahbodi also compet­ing. Whitney Preisser also rode in advanced walk-trot-canter for the Irish. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
Notre Dame’s women’s B Team traveled to Plainfield, Ill. this weekend for the Chicago Invite, where they earned a 3-1 record on Saturday. The team posted victories over SUNY-Buffalo and Michigan B, along with a forfeit from Western Michigan, although they lost a tough game to Wheaton 6-3. This marked the team’s first multi-win day at a tournament along with their first victory against an A team. It was cold and snowing all day, and wind direction played a major role in the games as all teams strug­gled to score upwind points. 
The poor conditions gave the team a chance to use their new zone defense, which proved successful especially with the help of some great plays from freshmen Dianna Bartone and Courtney Iversen. Sunday’s games were canceled due to the elements, providing the team with some time to rest and pre­pare before their fourth tourna­ment in a row here at Notre Dame on March 27-28. 
The men’s B squad also made the trip to Plainfield, sweeping the field for four wins. The first game was against Michigan State B in terrible weather at 36 degrees with heavy winds. Half an inch of snow accumulated during the morn­ing. The Irish scored an upwind point early in the game and traded points for the rest of the contest resulting in a final win 8-5. The following exhibi­tion game against SLUH High School ended in a final score of 12-2. The last game of pool play was against Illinois ­Chicago. The Irish traded points for the entire game even­tually winning a squeaker 6­
5. After a bye round the team took first place in the pool to earn a crossover match with Western Illinois. Notre Dame trailed early in the game and lost the first half. The Irish scored three in a row after half, including two upwind scores for a 8-7 win. Ending the day 4-0 put the Irish above their origi­nal seeding and in the 33rd place bracket. The second day of the tournament was can-celled on Sunday due to muddy conditions. 
Cardinals 
continued from page 20 
makes his first start since April 2008 for the Irish after missing the entire 2009 sea­son after undergoing shoul­der surgery. Sharpley’s career record as a starter is 4-1 with a 2.62 ERA. 
“Baseball is a game of a lot of ups and downs,” senior pitcher Eric Maust said. “Our focus for each day this upcoming week is to key in on the things that we can control.” 
The Cardinals have a 6-13 record on the season but have faced a tough schedule that includes six losses to ranked opponents. Ball State is coming off a weekend series at Louisville that saw the team drop two of three games. 
The Cardinals will start right-hander Brad Piatt, who has struggled early in the season. Piatt has a 0-2 record and 7.98 ERA in 2010 but will face a Notre Dame team that has struggled to produce runs lately. 
The Irish were shut out twice in the process of being swept by the Spartans last weekend and have averaged just 1.5 runs per game in their current four-game los­ing streak. 
“One thing that collectively as a team we’ve decided to focus on is the type of focused work that we put in,” Maust said. “We don’t feel like we were putting in poor quality hours before, but the idea is more or less that we are working up against some adversity right now and the thing to not do is shrug your shoulders and give in.” 
After facing the Cardinals the Irish will face another non-conference opponent in Illinois-Chicago Wednesday. Notre Dame has won 11 of its last 13 games against the Flames. 
The Irish will then begin Big East play this weekend at South Florida. Notre Dame finished fifth in the league in 2009 with a 15-12 confer­ence record. 
First pitch today is sched­uled for 5:05 p.m at Eck Stadium. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 23, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Tuesday, March 23, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Something Sweet? 
McGraw has team on  
brink of Sweet 16 berth  
By LAURA MYERS  
Sports Writer  
The Irish got their postsea­ 
son jitters out of the way  
Sunday with an easy win over  
Cleveland State in the opening  
round of the NCAA  
Tournament. Now they will  
look to earn a ticket to the  
Sweet 16 in the team’s last  
home game.  
The No. 2-seed Irish face No.  
10-seed Vermont tonight at the  
Purcell Pavilion. The  
Catamounts pulled off the first  
upset of the 2010 women’s  
tournament when they defeat­ 
ed No. 7-seed Wisconsin, 64­ 
55, Sunday.  
Irish coach Muffet McGraw  
said the America East champi­ 
ons have the tools to grab a  
much bigger upset if Notre  
Dame is not careful.  
“I have a lot of respect for  
them and their conference,” see VERMONT/page 17  PAT COVENEY/The Observer Freshman guard Skylar Diggins drives to the basket against Cleveland State in Notre Dame’s 86-58 win Sunday. The Irish face Vermont tonight at 7:16 p.m.  

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish show confidence in hot start 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After playing 21 consecutive away games to start the season, the Irish are ready to begin the second half of 2010 at Notre Dame’s Melissa Cook Stadium with a doubleheader against Eastern Michigan on Tuesday. 
“I think the team is confident and more rested than we have been in the past,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “We have been able to give them a few days off to recover, but now it’s time to get back to work and focus on attacking and on improvement in our practices andin our upcoming games.” 
The Irish (16-5) are riding a four-game win streak and are coming off a largely successful Spring Break trip to California where the team won eight of their nine games, including an 
see EASTERN/page 18 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Hilling performing nicely after being thrust into starting role 
confident freshman. Hilling has shown flashes of ferent sport.” start being consistent. I defi-
By CHRIS ALLEN 
“I’m really competitive and brilliance early in the season, Although the No. 15 Irish nitely think I haven’t played 
Sports Writer 
I started all four years in high but she said there have been are off to a 4-1 start, Hilling the best that I can. I’m hoping 
school because I was the only some challenges as she said the Irish need to improve that as the season goes along 
When freshman goalkeeper goalie on the team,” Hilling attempts to learn the college significantly to reach their I can really keep improving.” Ellie Hilling committed to said. “So I wasn’t really sure game on the fly. goals this season. And even Hilling’s development will play for the Irish, she expect-how it would work out “I’m comfortable with the though she’s only a freshman, continue in Arlotta Stadium, ed she’d have to fight for because there was a senior team and the coaches but Hilling said that includes her Notre Dame’s brand new early playing time. But Hilling and another freshman who I playing-wise it was really own individual play as well. home. Hilling said the facil­was thrust into the spotlight was really close with. I was tough coming out because it’s “We can do a lot better, and ties were the main draw in early in the season when a just planning on competing so different than high I can do a lot better than I’ve getting her to play at Notre pair of goalkeepers left the and working hard. Then the school,” Hilling said. “The been doing,” Hilling said. Dame. team, leaving Hilling as the other two goalies quit, and I game is way faster, the girls “I’ve been really inconsistent “The athletic facilities here only netminder on the roster. was the only goalie, so it kind are faster, the shots are early on, so I’m hoping that I 
The shakeup didn’t faze the of worked out.” faster. It’s like an entire dif-can get back into things and see HILLING/page 18 
BASEBALL 
Squad looks to bounce back 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
The struggling Irish will look for their first home win of the season and prepare for conference play today, host­ing Ball State and Illinois-Chicago this week before traveling to South Florida for a Big East series this week­end. 
Notre Dame will host the Cardinals with first pitch at 
5:05 p.m. Tuesday after being swept by Michigan State in its home-opening series last weekend. The Irish have dropped nine of their last 12 games, including four straight. 
Junior Ryan Sharpley will 
see CARDINALS/page 18 

FOOTBALL 
14 former players to participate in Pro Day 
Observer Staff Report 
Wide receiver Golden Tate will highlight the roster of 14 former Irish football players who will participate at Notre Dame’s Pro Day Tuesday, a Friday press release said. 
Eleven other members of the 2009 Irish team — run­ning back James Aldridge, wide receiver Robby Parris, offensive linemen Paul Duncan, Eric Olsen and Sam Young, defensive line­man Morrice Richardson, linebackers Scott Smith and Toryan Smith, and defen­sive backs Kyle McCarthy, Sergio Brown and Raeshon McNeil — will also partici­pate in drills at the Guglielmino Athletics Complex and the Loftus Sports Center in prepara­tion for the NFL Draft on April 22. 
Former Notre Dame full­back Asaph Schwapp and wide receiver David Grimes will also participate in the Pro Day. Grimes and Schwapp played for the Irish in 2008. 
The players will begin the Pro Day at noon with a 40­yard dash, 60-yard shuttle, three-cone drill and agility drills before participating in position-specific drills. Position drills should begin at approximately 1 p.m. and should end at 2:30 p.m. 





