the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students to rally for peace in Sudan 
Student government, department of athletics organize tournament to raise awareness 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students will unite on campus for peace in Sudan on Saturday during a rally that will feature University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh fol­lowing the Playing for Peace 3-on-3 basketball tourna ­ment. 
Social concerns chair Pat McCormick said the rally will combine the visibility of Notre Dame athletics with the University’s moral concern for social justice. 
“We deeply believe that as the greatest Catholic universi­ty in the world we have not only the ability but the responsibility to harness all the means at our disposal, but particularly the Notre Dame athletic brand, for social change,” McCormick said. 
The 3-on-3 basketball tour­nament — sponsored by the men’s basketball team, men’s lacrosse team and student government — will begin at 9 
a.m. Saturday in the Joyce Center, and the “Stand with Sudan” peace rally will begin at 12 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
“From the student govern­ment perspective and from the athletic perspective, we really only think this could have been possible because of the strength of the student body and the level of engage­ment of our students,” McCormick said. 

The rally will include remarks from professional basketball players Ed Bona and Luol Deng, Notre Dame men’s basketball coach Mike Brey, Notre Dame men’s lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan, and a video mes­sage from a Notre Dame graduate student from Sudan. 
“Think of two people in Sudan, the north and the south. Both of those really want peace. Peace is the overarching concern of every­body in Africa today because there has been so much unrest and so much war,” Hesburgh said. “I think it is high time we started working very hard for peace through­out the continent, and I think it is possible.” 
Hesburgh visited Sudan more than 15 years ago and remembers driving deep into the country during his trip. 
see SUDAN/page 5 


City halts housing construction 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Construction on the Legacy Square townhouse develop­ment at the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and Sorin Street has come to a halt over zoning issues. 
Developer Robert Cimala, who was also one of the developers of off-campus stu­dent housing development Legacy Village, said his prop­erty was set to receive final permits from the South Bend Building Commission. But at the beginning of November, the Building Commission said his plans would have to go to a public hearing before the Area Plan Commission (APC) on Dec. 21 to determine if they are in accordance with PUD zoning provisions. 
This process of review could derail the housing proj­ect. 
Legacy Square is zoned as a planned unit development (PUD), composed of 32 con­dominiums in four buildings. The condominiums were developed as high-end hous­ing geared toward single ­family, owner-occupied living 
see HOUSING/page 5 


NDSP investigates assault 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is investigating a sexual assault that was reported Nov. 30. 
The reported sexual assault was committed by an acquain­tance in a dorm on campus on Sept. 25. 
NDSP notified students in an e­mail to the student body Thursday. 
Information about sexual assault prevention and resources for survivors can be found at ndsp.nd.edu and at the Office of Student Affairs website. 
To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity or other emer­gencies, call 574-631-5555 or dial 9-1-1 from any campus tele­phone. 



Carroll to ring in Christmas season 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
The Christmas season unof­ficially kicks off tonight with the 13th annual Carroll Christmas, when many stu­dents will make the snowy trek to Carroll Hall for the dorm’s signature event. 
“If you only make it out to Carroll once, this is the night [to go],” said senior Rob Wilson, a Resident Assistant in Carroll. 
The annual event, which drew more than 1,000 stu­dents last year, will feature a Christmas tree lighting, a cookie contest and an oppor­tunity for pictures with Santa Claus. 
“My favorite part of Carroll Christmas is Christmas Karaoke,” Wilson said. “It’s a really fun time to be able to just sing Christmas carols with a bunch of your friends after a week of preparing for the event. I would say it’s definitely most people’s favorite part of the event too.” 
Wilson, who served as hall president last year, said more than 700 people have confirmed their attendance on the Facebook event page. 
“It’s great that we are able to get such a high number of people to participate, given that we are the smallest dorm on campus,” he said. 
The residence hall will also collect donations for Toys for Tots at the event. 
“It’s really nice to do some­thing charitable during the Christmas season,” he said. 
The Student Activities Office (SAO) funds Carroll Christmas, Wilson said. 
This year’s event also marks the 10th Carroll Christmas for rector Fr. 

James Lewis. Lewis said the residents of 
“Carroll Christmas has Carroll Hall are excited grown quite a bit over the about planning the event years, ” Lewis said. “We each year. started out with about 150 “The dorm community people in attendance and now have over 500.” see CHRISTMAS/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Bike thefts on rise at SMC page 3  A Winter Calendar page 9  Hockey to face Miami of Ohio page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, December 3, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS YOUR FAVORITE C RISTMAS SONG?

THE OBSERVER 




P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Molly Madden Mike Gotimer Megan Doyle Kelsey Manning Caitlin Housley Jack Hefferon 
Graphics Scene 
Gaspar Garcia de Courtney Cox Paredes Viewpoint Photo Madeline Roe Suzanna Pratt 
OFFBEAT 
Mysterious Santa adorns highway with ornaments 
LITTLE EGG HARBOR TOWNSHIP, N.J. — An annual Christmas mystery is playing itself out again along a busy New Jersey highway. 
A secret Santa is once again surreptitiously hanging ornaments from a large pine tree by the side of the Garden State Parkway in the dead of night. 
A gold star was hanging from the boughs of the tree Tuesday morning. 
It’s the fourth year in a row that the ornaments have shown up on the same tree in the south­bound lanes in a sparsely populated area of Little 
Caroline Bernardi  David Correa  Jackson Bangs  Kim Dumais  
freshman  senior  senior  freshman  
Lewis  Duncan  Stanford  Pangborn  

“It’s Beginning  “Have Yourself  “Chestnuts  “Last  
to Look a Lot  a Merry Little  Roasting over  Christmas”  
Like Christmas”  Christmas”  an Open Fire  
[The Christmas  
Song]”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Egg Harbor Township. 
No one has come for­ward and acknowledged decorating the tree. The New Jersey Turnpike Authority, which maintains the road, has said it isn’t responsible. 
The ornaments appear gradually, starting with one or two, and eventually growing to about a dozen by Christmas. 
Woman accused of stealing library books 
ANNISTON, Ala. — Librarians in Anniston, Ala., said they knew some­one was stealing thou­sands of dollars worth of books, and now they believe they know who did it: A jobless woman who likes to read. 
Anniston police say 42­year-old Regina M. Smith was arrested Wednesday on a felony theft charge after officials at the local library reported that a woman was seen stealing two books. 
Police said they deter­mined Smith had taken 222 books valued at $5,432 over the past cou­ple of years — mainly crime novels, mysteries and vampire stories. 
Investigator Kyle Price said Smith has a library card but sneaked books out and kept them rather than borrowing them legally, he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Badin Hall will sponsor A Conscious Christmas, Fair Trade Nepal Handicraft Sale today in Badin Hall from 12 to 5 p.m. All proceeds support the Hope for Nepal Foundation. 
Archaeologist Dr. Alessandro Sebastiani will give a lecture, “Diana and Hadrian: Modeling South Coastal Tuscany in the Roman Period,” today at 4 p.m. The event will be held in 126 DeBartolo Hall. 
Astrophysicist Grant Mathews will present “What and When Was the Christmas Star?” tonight at 7 p.m. in the Digital Visualization Theater of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
The ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will pres­ent Handel’s Messiah tonight at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall. Admission is $3 for students and $12 for the general public. Tickets can be purchased online or by phone. 
Saint Mary’s College will host its first annual Winter Wonderland this Saturday from 12 to 3 p.m. The event will include holiday activities for children of all ages and is open to the public. It will take place in both the Student Center and Haggar College Center. 
The Center for Social Concerns is hosting author Gary Rivlin Sunday at 7 p.m. in Room 101 of DeBartolo Hall. Rivlin will present his lecture, “From Charity to Justice: The Truth about Exploiting the Poor.” 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 
Today Tonight saturday sunday monday tuesday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


32 28 HIGH 3031 2828
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

28 25 LOW 2219 1615 





Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Bike theft creates concern 
vious years — “an unusually 
By ALICIA SMITH 
high number,” he said. 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Some of the thefts occurred 
to bicycles that were locked 
Saint Mary’s has experi-to the racks, Gariepy said. enced 12 bicycle thefts since “Some bicycles were locked August, David Gariepy, direc-to bicycle racks and the locks tor of security said. were cut, while some bikes 
Gariepy notified students of were not locked and simply 
the thefts via e-mail Nov. 22. The e-mail, which stated thefts usually “Some bicycles were occurred near locked to bicycleresident hall 
racks and the locks
bicycle racks, encouraged were cut, while students to some bikes report suspi­
were not locked
cious activity 
to campus and simply taken.” security, espe­cially “anyone David Gariepy near our bicy­
director of security
cle racks, not 
Saint Mary’s College 
fitting the description of a typical Saint Mary’s College taken,” he said. “Most were taken from or near bike racks located near our resident halls.” 
The e-mail said the bicy­cle locks, which were cut, were di scarded where the bicycle was parked. 
Gariepy said campus security cur­rently has no 
student (female, late teens to early 20’s) should be viewed as suspicious.” 
Gariepy said more bicycles have been stolen than in pre­leads to particular suspects, but has been carefully watch­ing for suspicious activity to prevent further thefts. 
“Officers are aware of the thefts and are keeping a clos­er watch for suspicious activ­ity near bicycle storage areas,” he said. 
According to Gariepy, one bicycle was stolen in August, three in September, four in 
O c to ber  and  four  i n  
November.  
Gariepy encouraged  stu - 

dents to make sure their bicycles were secured. 
He said students could pre­vent theft by registering their bicycles with campus security and purchasing tamper-proof locks to secure the bicycle to the rack. 
“Student may also take advantage of the indoor win­ter storage that security pro­vides at no cost,” he said. 
Gariepy also reminded stu­dents to “be aware of suspi­cious persons or activity on campus and always report your observations to securi­ty.” 
To report suspicious activity at Saint Mary’s College, call campus security at 574-284­5000. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

Free Store encourages college sustainability 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The free store that allows Saint Mary’s students to donate unwanted items so that other students may use them is now open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
Items in the store, which is sponsored by Saint Mary’s Environmental Action Coalition (SMEAC), include furniture, table, chairs and other items that would be found in a dorm room. 
Senior Ashley Cook, co-presi­dent of SMEAC, said the change in store hours has increased use, but also increased the need for dona­
“We now have the 
tions. The store, had mentioned located in the free store open 24 that Warren basement of Le hours so that Wilson College Mans Hall, is had a free 
students can either 
open to all stu-store.” 
dents. donate or pick up The store 
“Students used items at any relies complete-expressed inter-ly on donation. 
time.” 
est in having the Cook said a lot free store open of students and more often so Ashley Cook even faculty that they come co-president have already whenever con-given supplies. 
SMEAC 
they need. She said the store aligns with SMEAC’s mission to improve the environment. 
“We encourage all students to donate whenever they do not use an item and to stop by the free store before buying an item they need,” Cook said. “This is our way of reducing, reusing and recy­cling because it is keeping so many objects out of the trash.” 
The idea for the store came to the group when a visiting speaker came to campus and suggested the idea. 
“There was a guest speaker invited by SMEAC named Dr. Weber from Warren Wilson College who spoke to our cam­pus about how to become more sustainable, ” Cook said. “She 

venient for them,” Cook said. “We now have the free store open 24 hours so that students can either donate or pick up used items at any time.” 
Although the change has resulted in an increase in use of the store, but Cook said SMEAC now needs more dona­tions in order to keep the store full. 
“Because of this change we have noticed the free store becoming [emptier],” Cook said. “This is great because it shows students are using the free store even more. However, we are hoping for an increased amount of donations to keep the free store open and stocked with many useful items.” 
Cook said students should drop by the store before they go out and purchase items “We are no 
longer keeping a log of donations since the free store is open 24 hours, meaning there isn’t a volun­teer working the free store and keeping records,” Cook said. “However, I do know we received numerous donations from students and faculty this year. We have all of these peo­ple to thank for keeping our free store up and running.” 
As long as donations contin­ue to come in, Cook said she would like to keep it a part of the “Saint Mary’s culture.” 
“Since we are keeping so many items out of the trash and making them available for reuse we feel like it is a great way of giving back, by reduc­ing the college’s amount of waste,” she said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Frday, December 3, 2010 


Library to launch redesigned website 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
After a decade of being online, library.nd.edu and its 
online interface are being updated. The new website design will launch right before the beginning of the Spring 2011 semester, said Mark Dehmlow, head of the Library Web Department. 
Dehmlow said preparations should be completed by Jan. 13, but test versions of the website and catalog were available online a month ago. 
“The old system served us well and provides some great features, but we had been getting to the point where we were becoming constrained in what we could do with it,” he said. “The goal for us was to acquire a platform that could enhance 
the research “The old system gate, Dehmlow experience at served us well and and a team of Notre Dame IT staff worked 
provides some great
and bring a to develop a
features, but we had
contemporary better online web experi -been getting to the presence for the ence to the cat-library. He said 
point where we were
alog.” the team placed 
becoming constrained
The new importance on website will in what we could do user feedback. feature a set of “We solicit 
with it.” 
online tools feedback that includes a through focus cleaner organi-Mark Dehmlow groups, sur ­zation of fre -library web deparment veys, usability the access to materials, the new catalog is based on tech­nology similar to that used by Google. Using an optimal search program, Dehmlow said a true relevance ranking will provide better results without using complex search strategies. 
“The new system features a ‘Filter’ column, which allows users to easily drill down into the collection by bringing information from the records up to the surface for the interface such as authors, topics and date ranges,” he said. “It really takes a lot of guesswork out of the search process.” 
Eliminating guesswork from the system is the reason for the major digital renovation, Dehmlow said. After hearing reports of stu­dents finding the library ’s current website difficult to navi­
quently used student resources. Dehmlow said this will allow users to focus their energies on applying information to their work, rather than dealing with dif­ficulties in finding it. 
“The new site uses fly-out menus at the top to provide deep access to a lot of con­tent. We also took the most heavily used resources and services and placed them in the highly visible ‘Quicklinks’ section,” Dehmlow said. “We kept our tabbed search box in the most prominent location and decided to give a more prominent space to library news.” 
CatalogPlus, the revamped version of the library’s cur­rent online catalog, will pro­vide a comprehensive search 
of the Hesburgh Library, Kresge Law Library, Saint Mary’s College Library, Holy Cross College Library and Bethel College Library, Dehmlow said. 
“Our users might not be aware of it, but they are actually able to check out items at those other libraries using their Notre Dame ID,” he said. 
In addition to expanding testing and 
feedback gath­
ered from the 
library staff who interact with users, ” Dehmlow said. “Usage statis­tics and industry trends help us focus on areas in which we can make the most impact.” 
Dehmlow said the launch of CatalogPlus is the first step in content expansion for the website. 
“Our long-term goal is to take any unnecessary com­plexity out of the search process for our users and new technologies and stan­dards are helping us do just that,” Dehmlow said. “Our success is measured in how well we are able to facilitate access to information.” 
The Hesburgh Library staff welcomes user feedback. View the test site and cata­logue interface at http://www.test.library.ned.ed u and http://ndcatalogplus.library.n d.edu. 
By providing an e-mail address on the feedback form, students qualify for prizes in a drawing. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

‘Lecture’showsLannon’senthusiasm 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Professor of Physics Kevin Lannon decided to both enter­tain and educate when deliver­ing his contribution to the Last Lecture series on Thursday night in the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Last Lecture Series, sponsored by student govern­ment, provides University pro­fessors the opportunity to share their life-lessons for stu­dents in a non-classroom set­ting. 
When presented with the opportunity to give his last lec­ture, Lannon focused on what he was living his life for. 
“What are the things that are a part of my life that make me jump out of bed in the morn­ing?” Lannon said. “Basically, the questions are related to elementary particle physics. One big question is what the universe is made of.” 
Lannon said his job descrip­tion was every young boy’s dream. 
“I get to smash things togeth­er and some­one says good 
job, now “What are the things smash it hard-
that are a part of my
er,” Lannon 
life that make me
said. Lannon said jump out of bed in the part of his job 
morning? Basically
is figuring out 
the questions are
what makes up the uni-related to elementary verse. So far, 
partical physics. One 
he and other 
big question is what
physicists have only discov-the universe is made ered four per-
of.” 
cent of what makes up the 
Kevin Lannon 
universe. The other 96 per-department of physics cent is made up of both most impressive scientific apparatus constructed by human beings. The LHC is a 27 kilometers in size and bends energy into beams through the use of superconducting mag­nets. 

Lannon expressed his enthusiasm for the device and his work, Lannon said he was­
n’t always pas­sionate about physics. While in graduate school he was afraid he wasn’t cut out for this work after a meeting with his advisor. 
“He drove to come and see me, and when he got here, he was talking about how he was thinking about my analysis and all these ideas he came up with while driving,” Lannon said. 
While still in now thinks about physics while doing mundane tasks such as driving his car. 
Lannon said he also lives to be a teacher. 
“I get to share my enthusi­asm for something I love, inspire others to work on the same questions and give others the tools I would like them to use to work on problems I don’t have the time to work on,” Lannon said. 
For Lannon, he believes teaching has a more lasting impact on the world than any of the other work he does. 
Lannon said he felt his life is still a work in progress but he would like to pass on some of his personal lessons onto his students. 
“Try to figure out what you live for, and work to make it a part of your life and always ask questions,” Lannon said. “The biggest impact you can have on the world is through the next generation.” 
He left the students with advice on what to do when they face failure or moments of frustration. 
“When you can’t find the answer, be honest with your­self and go with your gut,” he said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

dark matter and energy, forces that science really does not understand, Lannon said. 
Lannon has had the opportu­nity to work with the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), located in Geneva, Switzerland. 
He described the LHC as the 
Christmas 
continued from page 1 
threw Carroll Christmas into high gear about five years ago by increasing the deco­rations, food and drink, and adding the opportunity to have pictures taken with Santa,” Lewis said. “More recently, we added Mrs. Claus and Santa’s elves to the mix.” 
Lewis said the cookie con­test became a big part of Carroll Christmas. 
“It’s very competitive,” he said. “Yes, the guys will bake cookies, and no, they school, Lannon wanted to ask questions beyond the realm of science. He said he wanted to know why bad things hap­pened to good people and why cures hadn’t been found for fatal diseases. 
He said in the years since, he 
never win.” 
Wilson said Carroll Christmas is a great bonding event for the residents of Carroll Hall. 
“We had tremendous help from our entire dorm, espe­cially our freshmen,” he said. “Everyone has really embraced the event.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
pus to ask Notre Dame. as a issue and to call the world’s The Playing for Peace logo, a “While student activism is a 
Catholic university. to raise attention to it,” McCormick peace sign embedded in a great part of this, the focus 

Sudan 
awareness about potential for said. shamrock, appeared on 2,000 now needs to be on the events continued from page 1 mass violence in Sudan. The petition asked policy t-shirts to be unfolding in “[The bishops’] appeal was makers to make preventing sold for $5 on Sudan and how “I got a feeling for the place, to the Catholic community and violence in Sudan a priority as Saturday and our voices can and it is like most of Africa. asked Catholics in the United January draws closer, 2,000 buttons to “Economic contribute to Every country in Africa seems States to McCormick said. be distributed development will the call for a to have a problem,” Hesburgh remember the Director of for free, Dugan peaceful and 
make good education
said. “[Sudan’s] problem is are r e f e r e n d u m “The two most men’s lacrosse said. just solution to they going to join north or and do whatev-powerful things at operations Kevin “We just want a top priority, and the problems south, or are they going to er we can to Dugan said the to see a sense of with good education that may arise 
Notre Dame, the two
develop separately … The con-call for inter-basketball and urgency. This with the expira­
will come good jobs, 
flict always boils down to the national atten-things people are lacrosse teams peace accord is tion of the same thing, and that is access tion to Sudan,” most passionate got involved going to expire and with good jobs peace accord to resources.” M c C o r m i c k because they in January, and will come good there,” Corrigan 
about, are athletics 
The northern and southern said. wanted to do we will ask if said. 
salaries. That is the and Catholic social
parts of Sudan have been torn Shortly after more for campus we let apathy Hesburgh said 
only way we are gong
by civil war for more than 50 the bishops’ thought. When you than ask stu -overwhelm us averting this years. The Comprehensive visit, Notre dents to show up when we have to get equality, by conflict would 
bring the two of those
Peace Agreement (CPA) for-Dame’s Student at games. the opportunity pave the way 
equality ofthings together, you
mally ended civil war in 2005 Senate unani-“The two most to do some-for development 
opportunity.” 
and scheduled a referendum mously passed can capture the spirit powerful things thing,” Dugan in Sudan. for Jan. 9, 2011. The a resolution at Notre Dame, said. “All these “ E c o n o m i c
of Notre Dame in a 
Sudanese will then vote on pledging sup-the two things different groups Fr. Theodore Hesburgh development 
special way.” 
whether Southern Sudan will port for the people are most are coming will make good 
University president 
secede. people of p a s s i o n a t e together for education a top 
emeritus
The peace agreement called Sudan. The Kevin Dugan about, are ath-what is unques-priority, and for six years of democratic Student Senate letics and tionably the with good edu­
director of operations
reforms and national elections also sponsored Catholic social most pressing cation will come 
men’s lacrosse 
leading up to the referendum. an online peti-thought,” Dugan social concerns need of the good jobs, and with good jobs The vote was intended to be a tion to be sent said. “When you Church in this year.” will come good salaries,” peaceful process, but both to President Obama closer to bring the two of those things Men’s lacrosse coach Kevin Hesburgh said. “That is the sides began to stockpile the referendum. together, you can capture the Corrigan said he was excited only way we are going to get weapons as the referendum “What is so exciting about spirit of Notre Dame in a spe-to see the collaboration equality, by equality of oppor­approached. the petition is that it gives stu-cial way.” between the department of tunity.” 
On Oct. 5, a delegation from dents the opportunity to lead, The department of athletics athletics and the student body the Sudanese Conference of to show that they understand harnessed the Notre Dame on an issue of international Contact Megan Doyle at Catholic bishops visited cam-the moral dimensions of this brand to advertise the event. importance. mdoyle11@nd.edu 
lated occupants per condo-borhoods close to campus. began in July 2007. That South Bend, and APC execu­minium. But when pockets of student month, Cimala went to the tive director John Byorni, to 

Housing 
Nesbaum is the attorney for housing develop problems APC and requested PUD zon-make changes to the site continued from page 1 the Northeast Neighborhood tend to arise, he said. ing for his property on Notre plans. He received foundation 
Revitalization Organization “Historically, we didn’t have Dame Ave. and Sorin St. to permits in October. situations, as opposed to (NNRO), a non-profit corpora-this high of a concentration of build 36 units. The APC asked After another round of rentals. tion created for “planning, students [in the Northeast him to reduce the number of changes, Cimala said Byorni 
PUD zoning allows for flexi-discussing and coordinating Neighborhood],” he said. units to 32 to be split told him he would get final bility in building, and they the social, physical and eco-“Students lived throughout between two buildings. The approval for his final building normally contain private resi-nomic revitalization of the the city. Ten to 15 years ago, APC later asked him to split permit when Bulot sent over dences and common areas. Northeast Neighborhood,” landlords bought single fami-the two buildings into four. initialed site plans to the Cimala said that because of according to the Northeast ly house pockets.” Cimala agreed. APC. Instead of final the slow economy and a bad Neighborhood website. The Stenz said when pockets of Cimala said he had to delay approval, Byorni said he was housing market, he has Legacy Square development student houses spring up, the plans until this year sending the plans back to a decided to rent some of the falls in the Northeast they can bring down the because of the general finan-public hearing with the City condominiums to students Neighborhood. value of neighboring non-stu-cial downturn. Council in order to see if the until he can sell them. “The NNRO is interested in dent houses. “This year, I was able to Legacy Square plans are still 
“I’m not doing anything that this because they don’t Cimala said the object of obtain construction financing, in accordance with the PUD anyone else isn’t doing,” believe the plan does conform c o n t r o v e r s y so I could go code in their current state. Cimala said. “This is a very [to PUD zoning],” Nesbaum related to on with the “They think it’s a student nice development, and all I’m said. “The intent of the law Legacy Square project,” he housing development and doing is what I’m allowed to is to encourage owner-occu-is the local prej-said. that’s all it’s ever going to do under the law.” pied, single family residences. udice against Cimala said be,” Cimala said. “I am build-
Attorney Dick Nesbaum said This is not an anti-student Notre Dame stu-“They’re trying to he had a local ing a high-end condominium provisions in South Bend zon-situation.” dents. architect cre -development.” 
stop me from
ing codes prohibit more than Bill Stenz, president of the “Notre Dame ate the final The community meeting two unrelated occupants in Northeast Neighborhood students have exercising my legal architecture could have significant impli­one home unless the unit is Council and resident of the been given a right to rent each plan and a civil cations for the students who zoned for such occupancy. Northeast Neighborhood, said bad rap by a lot engineer create signed leases to live in Legacy 
condo to two students
Legacy Square is zoned to he doesn’t generally mind of people,” he the final site Square during the 2011-12 allow no more than two unre-students living in the neigh-said. until I sell them.” plan, which he academic year. He said there brought to the If the building plans are is nothing in the B u i l d i n g found to be within guidelines, 
Robert Cimala 
South Bend zon-Commission. Cimala will receive his final 
developer 
ing law prevent-“We showed building permit, and he said 
ing students them our he could get the buildings 
from living any-plans,” he said. constructed by June 2011, 
where in town. “We don’t want when students could move in 
“They’re try-to go forward on time for the school year. 
ing to stop me from exercis-with the project with these If the plans are not 
ing my legal right to rent plans unless they fit the zon-approved, however, the end 
each condo to two students ing codes.” result remains unclear. 
until I sell them,” he said. He said he worked with 
Cimala said plans for the Chuck Bulot, the building Contact Amanda Gray at 
Legacy Square development commissioner for the City of agray3@nd.edu 


The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 6 Friday, December 3, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
‘Tis the season to give 
It’s now time for ugly sweaters and our favorite animated Christmas films. In just a little under three weeks, most of us will be home. We’ll trim the tree and drink hot cocoa with our par­ents. We’ll get to 
Amanda Gray 
sleep — what a concept! I’ll hope­fully be spending Assistant the first Saturday News Editor back waking up in the wee hours of the morning to help at my high school’s annual food drive. Mishawaka High School has hosted the Food Drive around Christmas for more than 25 years, and I was actually sorting soup cans at the Food Drive in 2007 when I got my Notre Dame acceptance letter (a friend went to my mailbox at home and brought it to me). 
I want to take this time to ask every­one lucky enough to have a Christmas this year to give something to those who won’t. When you look at your Christmas tree and the pretty wrapped presents, take a moment and think of the families who don’t have the luxury to buy their children gifts, let alone put food on the table at regu­lar intervals. 
Here are some great local and national charities that are currently accepting donations of food, gifts and money: 
• 
The Food Bank of Northern Indiana: In operation since 1993, the Food Bank helps families in the area meeting food needs. It always takes donations of non-perishable food items, as well as monetary donations through its website, feedindiana.org 

• 
The Marine Toys for Tots Foundation: I don’t know about you, but there was always a Toys for Tots drive in my elementary school, and I still like to donate. The organization collects new, unwrapped toys during October, November and December to give to families who can’t afford to buy their children presents. In my opinion, every child needs a brightly wrapped present to open Christmas morning. There are donation spots nation-wide, and you can find where to go or donate money at toysfortots.org 

• 
The Center for the Homeless: Located at 813 S. Michigan St., South Bend’s Center for the Homeless isn’t new to Notre Dame. Many students volunteer there, and there’s even a class on homelessness that spends time there weekly. If you’ve never helped before, I urge you to consider donating something here. The Center has a list of critically needed items on its website, cfh.net, and it also takes monetary donations. 


As Notre Dame students, we’re lucky to get the education we’re receiving. We’re lucky we get to pick through South Dining Hall’s million dinner options — even though we all complain there’s nothing to eat. We have warm classrooms. We have friendships. We have a warm place to sleep (unless we’re pulling an all­nighter and don’t have the luxury of sleep). I know time is precious right now with finals and flights home. Take a minute and think of those in need. ‘Tis the season to give, friends. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Cheering until the end 

So here we are, at what has become our favorite weekend of the year. Football season is over, and we can finally relax, decompress from a season of disappointment and spend our Saturdays doing something productive, like this ever-increasing pile of homework. 
Wait, we’re not? 
This hasn’t happened before. We aren’t disheartened at all. We’re — dare we say it? — excited. 
For the first time since nearly all current Notre Dame stu­dents have been here, the football season did not come to a screeching halt, nor did it limp to the finish. It won, and won again, and won again. 
Not only that, but the rest of Irish athletics are winning, too, and our enthusiasm is carrying over. 
So much for getting that theology paper done this weekend. 
Instead, we’ll be watching our women’s soccer team face Ohio State today in the College Cup 
semifinals and hopefully again on Sunday to try for the championship that has eluded them for the past four years. 
We’ll be attending or at least watching as our No. 16 women’s basketball team takes on Purdue Sunday afternoon on national television, a 10-year anniversary of the season that the two pro­grams battled for (and Notre Dame won) a national title. 
As we move into the last week of classes and study days, we still won’t find the sweet relief of athletic department depres­sion. We’re just going to get even more distracted. 
Will we be doing a group project Wednesday night? No, we’ll be eating buffalo wings and watching as our No. 25 men’s bas­ketball team, who at 8-0 have won more Div. 1 games than any team in the country, as they play Kentucky at Freedom Hall. 
Then comes the weekend, when the No. 10 hockey team plays two games at home against Northern Michigan. We’ll be there. 
Saturday night, the perfect time to bunker down with all of these organic chemistry textbooks, will see the men’s basketball team taking on Gonzaga at home. Who would miss that? 
Notre Dame games aren’t everything we have to look forward to for a study break, though. Tomorrow, we’ll be playing basketball and hang­
ing out with the men’s basketball and lacrosse teams at the Stand for Sudan rally — because maybe Notre Dame athletics are becoming relevant again, in more than just rankings. 
Then comes Sunday, when we find out whether the football team will be playing in Orlando, El Paso, San Diego or some other warm, post-
Christmas destination come bowl season. 
Do you think students can afford airplane tickets to get to that game, athletic department? Of course not. But they’ll find a way — one that probably involves more time working at Sbarro and less time working on problem sets during finals week. 
Our grades may suffer as we cheer for the Irish or spend massive amounts of time staring at a picture of last Saturday’s 20-16 Coliseum scoreboard. 
But it’s all good. We’re happy about what’s going on. 
It’s all about priorities, and, for once, we’ve got them right. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Life has taught us that love does“Winter is on my head, but eternal 
not consist in gazing at each other, spring is in my heart.” 
but in looking outward together in the same direction.” 
Victor Hugo French dramatist, novelist and poet 
Antoine de Saint-Exupery French writer and explorer 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Friday, December 3, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
No need to exaggerate 
Dear Mac Hendrickson, 
Reading your review of Kanye West’s album (“No exaggeration necessary for Kanye West’s new masterpiece,” Dec. 1) it’s clear that you have no knowl­edge of Hip-Hop music. I tried my best to respect your opinions, but I must express my anger with your ignorance of the topic. You are quick to compare Kanye’s work to that of Nas, Jay-Z and the Beastie Boys (whose inclusion alone shows your lack of knowledge), but I honestly wonder whether you’ve even heard most of their work anyway. Kanye West is certainly a unique artist that has created his own lane and doesn’t deserve to be compared to other greats, but quickly after stating this you go on to make embarrassing comparisons. 
You’ve taken it upon yourself to proclaim that “Fantasy” is the greatest Hip-Hop album of all time. Even if this is how you feel right now, a week is not long enough to decide whether an album deserves “classic” status, let alone crown it the greatest of ALL TIME. I would hope that the greatest album of all time would be one that has proven it will remain as valuable for­ever, similar to albums like “Illmatic” and “Ready to Die.” 
You applaud that Hip-Hop was “snatched from the hands of thugs and placed back where it belongs.” You proudly use a horrible and insulting stereotype, disrespecting some of the greatest artists of all time. Just last year, 2Pac, a “thug,” had his song “Changes” honored by being placed on the Vatican’s playlist, which must have been because of its “moral repugnance.” Nas’s “Illmatic” was released before his 21st birthday while he was living in the violent Queensbridge projects, but to you it must all seem mindless because you can’t put yourself in someone else’s shoes. The “ghetto-ness” of many rap songs comes because the artists are telling stories of life in the ghetto. From a dorm room at a $50,000 a year college you refuse to find art in the stories of violence, drugs and struggle Biggie experienced. Songs like 2Pac’s “Keep Ya Head Up,” Ghostface’s “All That I Got Is You,” and N.W.A’s “Express Yourself” serve as inspiration for struggling people, which is cer­tainly more mindless than West’s consistent promotion of Louis Vuitton and his own greatness, right? 
“Fantasy” is not even Kanye West’s best album. Actually, it’s not even sec­ond best. 
Jake Robinson 
alumnus class of 2010 Dec. 1 
Consider this for the list 
Courtney Cox, 
While I fully appreciate your thorough research and analysis of the Sky Mall magazine (“SkyMall Top 10,” Dec. 2) I think you were fairly foolish in your omission of the greatest item to ever appear in SkyMall, or the Air Dancer (more commonly known as the wacky waving inflatable arm tube man). 
Please reconsider this list. Thank you. 
James Schwarber 
senior 
off campus 
Dec. 2 
Real Hip-Hop 
Mac Hendrickson, 
Your review of Kanye West’s album (“No exaggeration necessary for Kanye West’s new masterpiece,” Dec. 1) made me legitimately angry. It didn’t bother me how you absolutely gushed over the album (by saying “Nobody is claiming the album is perfect” but then using the word “perfect” three times in the article), or how you broke down your descriptions of the songs. It was how you easily dis­missed all-time-great rappers and producers without mentioning the albums or songs that made them legends. Have some respect for the game and specify the albums you think don’t even compare to “Fantasy.” 
The other thing that bothered me was that you separated rap fans into two groups: thugs and non-thugs. What constitutes a thug-rapper or a ghetto song? Let’s take away any rapper that committed a crime or talks about the ghetto. There goes Biggie, Pac, Jay-Z, N.W.A, Eminem, 50 Cent, Big L, Big Pun, Wu-Tang (including RZA), Mobb Deep and the Clipse. Wait. Wasn’t Pusha T part of the Clipse, the Hip-Hop duo who became famous for rapping about the drug cartel they ran? Is that the same guy who is featured on “Runaway,” which, according to you, is the greatest Hip-Hop track of the last 30 years? Is he a thug or non-thug? Those of us who like the “harder” stuff from the 1990s need to know. 
Whether he is one of your thugs or not, those who rapped about the ghetto produced some of the greatest albums of all time. I’d stack “Illmatic,” “Reasonable Doubt,” “Ready to Die” and “All Eyez on Me” against Kanye’s latest any day. Hip-Hop exists today because of the guys from whom you want to snatch it. 
One last thing: maybe you didn’t hear Kanye say this on Hot 97 a couple weeks ago: “No one is ever gonna be bigger than Eminem. He’s the No. 1 greatest rap­per of all time.” Too bad you’ll never give him a chance because he raps about the “morally-repugnant” subject of drugs. You can have your non-thug rappers, but keep your hands off my music. Get back to me about Pusha T though. 
Michael Turner 
junior 
Morrissey Hall 
Dec. 1 

UWIRE 
Reusable bags aren’t as green as they seem 
The decision between paper and plastic has recent­ly began to include the choice of reusable, a one dol­lar option many people are willing to take in order to reduce their impact on the environment. 
But reusable grocery bags, made to be used multi­ple times for shopping, may not 
Sarah Walters 
be as healthy or environmental­ly friendly as people once 
thought. Oregon Daily Emerald 
The Tampa Tribune recently investigated and tested reusable grocery bags sold at Wal-Mart, Target and East Coast grocery chains. This investiga­tion spurred the Food and Drug Administration to launch its own investigation into reusable bags. The testers found unsafe levels of lead in reusable grocery bags that were manufactured in China and sold at Wal-Mart, Target and the East Coast grocery chains Winn-Dixie, Publix and Sweetbay. Lead is found in laminated reusable bags with large print or images to make colors more vibrant. 
Lead is a toxic metal that can cause serious health problems in children younger than six years old and adults who are regularly exposed to high levels of lead. Lead poisoning in children can cause behavioral problems, damage to the brain and nervous system, hearing problems, headaches and slowed growth. Lead poisoning in adults can cause reproductive problems, high blood pressure, hypertension, nerve disorders, memory problems, and muscle and joint pain. 
While the recent study did not show any indication of an immediate health threat to the public, lead in reusable bags could possibly contaminate the food products kept inside them and leach into landfills once a consumer disposes of the bag. The researchers found that in the long-term, the lead from reusable grocery bags could seep into ground­water after disposal and, over time, paint from the bag could flake off and come into contact with food. 
Wal-Mart and Target have not recalled their reusable bags and recently released statements to dispel any health concerns. 
Wal-Mart tested its bags did not find levels as high as the Tribune’s test and the company plans on sell­ing more basic and plain versions of its bag. Target also remained confident in its testing methods. In response to the Tribune’s story, Safeway re-tested all its reusable bags and found them to be lead-free. Reusable grocery bags are a popular alternative to using plastic and paper bags, and some cities are considering outright banning one-use bags. While the City of Eugene is not considering a ban on plastic bags, the City of Portland is. Meanwhile, in Washington, D.C., and other U.S. cities, consumers who use plastic bags are charged extra when they 
don’t bring their reusable grocery bags. This would be a good option instead of banning plas­tic bags entirely, University junior Yufei Chen said. 
“I think it’s a good idea to pay for it,” she said. 
U. Oregon junior Elizabeth Shepard said she uses plastic bags at home as garbage bags. “You can use those bags at home for other things,” she said. “Banning them isn’t a good idea.” Other U. Oregon students said they had a hard time remembering to bring their reusable bags with them when grocery shopping. 
“I never have them with me to use them,” senior Sarah Kanthack said. 
Consumers should also focus on bacteria, which can form on the bottom of reusable grocery bags, when considering their health. Health experts recom­mend that consumers regularly wash their reusable grocery bags to prevent the formation of bacteria and 
E. coli. However, the catch is that washing reusable grocery bags uses energy and water, making them less environmentally friendly than their original pur­pose. 
This column first appeared in the Nov. 30 edition of the Oregon Daily Emerald, the publication serving the University of Oregon. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 
Scene
page 8 Friday, December 3, 2010 
Notre Dame women’s soccer College Cup semifinal vs. Ohio State 
Where:WatchonESPN2orESPNU 
When:Friday,4p.m. 
TheIrishmaketheirschool-recordfifthconsecutivetriptotheCollegeCup 

A Carroll Christmas 
Where:FarQuad When:Friday,6p.m. 
AgreatwaytokickoffChristmasoncampusaswellasanexcuseto makethetrekouttoFarQuad.EventsincludeaChristmastreelighting, aperformancebytheNotreDameGleeClub,aChristmascarolkaraoke session,pictureswithSanta,andaChristmascookiecontestat8. NumerousChristmasrefreshmentswillbeavailable.Guestsareencour-
agedtobringatoythatwillbedonatedtoToysforTots. 



Playing for Peace: Peace Rally and 3-on-3 Basketball T 
Where:JoyceCenter When:Saturday,gamesstartat9a.m.;rallyat12p.m. Howmuch:Attendanceandparticipationisfree,t-shirtswillbe$5 
JointhetournamentorattendtherallytoraiseawarenessoftheconflictinSudan.Speakers include:coachesMikeBreyfrommen’sbasketballandKevinCorriganfrommen’ EdBona,aSudanesenativewhowasthefirst aCameroonnativeandformercaptainofGeor UniversityPresidentEmeritusTheodoreHesbur 
“The Best Christmas Pageant Ever” 
Where:WashingtonHallLabTheatre When:Saturday,4and7p.m.Sunday Howmuch:Free 
BasedonthebookbyBarbaraRobinson,“TheBestChristmasPageantEver”fol­lowsthestoryofacouplewhocastthemostawfulkidsintownintheirChristmas pageant.HilarityandChristmascheerensue! 
Times New Viking 
Where:LegendsNightclub When:Saturday,10p.m. Howmuch:FreetoallND/SMC/HCCstudents 
Thisindie-rockbandhailsfromColumbus,Ohio,andhasper­formedatPitchforkMusicFestival. 
GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 

Photo Illustration by Pat Coveney and Jaclyn Espinoza 
Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 2 
Road-tested ND faces Ohio St. in semifinals 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
No. 7 Notre Dame will head to its fifth consecutive College Cup this weekend in Cary, N.C., where it will face No. 17 Ohio State in the national semifinal. 
Although the Irish (19-2-2) were highly ranked and had a reputation as one of college soc­cer’s elite programs, a 2-0 loss to Connecticut in the quarterfi­nals of the Big East champi­onships resulted in a drop to a fourth seed in the NCAA Tournament. The lower seed gave the Irish a daunting road to the College Cup in which they played three ranked teams and traveled nearly 4,000 miles. 
“I think when the bids came out, all the girls didn’t publicly come out and say anything and we didn’t either, and I think we all felt like we got a little bit of a shaft on that,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “I think we were expecting a two seed, and to get a four [seed], we were all disappointed in that. So I think they had a little bit of a point to prove, so that’s proba­bly served as a little motivation.” 
Since that loss, the Irish have dominated their opponents on both ends of the field, outscoring opponents 13-1 thus far in the tournament. Waldrum said he believes this team has played as well as any other team he has coached during his tenure at Notre Dame. 
“I think this team is really well prepared, and I think it’s got all the ingredients,” Waldrum said. “It could win it. You know now we [have to] still go out and per­form on the day, but I think it’s as good right now as any team that we’ve had coming through at this point in the year.” 

While Notre Dame has been to the College Cup 12 times in its history, Ohio State (17-4-2) is making its first appearance on college soccer’s biggest stage. Although the Irish have a clear advantage in experience, Waldrum isn’t ready to say this team will have an easy road to Sunday night’s final. 
“I think it is [Ohio State’s] first time there, and that can be a dangerous thing,” Waldrum said. “You know, it can be one of those Cinderella runs like USC did a few years ago — the first time they were in they won the whole thing — and so I think Ohio State certainly has a good enough team to do that.” 
The Buckeyes will present challenges for the Irish on both sides of the ball, but their defense has been especially sound, allowing just 0.61 goals per game. 
“They don’t give up many goals. They look to be a team that’s really organized, so I think it’s [going to] be a great game,” Waldrum said. “I think it should be a really good matchup, and you know when you get to the final four teams, you’re playing somebody good.” 
Should the Irish get past Ohio State on Friday, they will face the winner of the other semifi­nal contest between No.1 Stanford and No. 18 Boston College. Like the 2008 Notre Dame squad, which entered the College Cup unbeaten and ranked No. 1 in the country, the Cardinal (22-0-2) enter this year’s College Cup looking to wrap up an undefeated season with a national championship. Waldrum said he believes Stanford will face some pressure to win a storybook national title, but he doesn’t think it will derail them. 
“Well there’s some pressure with it — I can tell you that from us doing it,” Waldrum said. “You know, every game that you get deeper, whether you consciously think about it or subconsciously think about it, you go, ‘Well there’s only now two games left and if we win it we go undefeat­ed, now there’s only one more game.’ I don’t think the pressure of them carrying that undefeat­ed season is [going to] burden them enough that it’s [going to] cause them to collapse or any­thing.” 
Like Ohio State, Boston College (17-6-1) is also making its first trip to the College Cup. The Eagles were one of the nation’s hottest teams at the beginning of the season, but cooled off towards the end before stepping their game up again in the tournament. 
“I think Boston College has had an exceptional year,” Waldrum said. “They started out really hot — they beat [North] Carolina early in the year, and they tied Stanford early in the year ... they seemed like they’ve turned it back around again late in the year.” 
Notre Dame will begin the final stage of its chase for the program’s third national title Friday against Ohio State at 4 
p.m. at WakeMed Soccer Park in Cary, N.C. The winner of that game will square off with the winner of the Stanford vs. Boston College match at noon Sunday for the national title. The semifinal games will be broadcast on ESPN2 and ESPNU, while Sunday’s match will air on ESPN2. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Quarterfinals loss in conference tournament sparks Irish 
realized what was at stake. 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
“We just looked at each other 
Sports Writer 
and kind of knew,” junior forward Melissa Henderson said. A real eye-opener. A wake-up “Everybody said what they need-call. A reality check. A slap in the ed to say, ‘Hey, we’ve got to pick it face. up. Now it’s not all fun and 
These were just some of the games. It’s serious now. You lose terms the Irish players used to and you’re out.’” describe their shocking 2-0 upset After Notre Dame slept off the by Connecticut in the quarterfi-sting from the loss, the team went nals of the Big East tournament back to business and worked to on Halloween. Coming into the grow from the experience. game at 15-1-2 without a loss to a “I remember we had to go in conference opponent since 2005 the morning after and watch film and without a home loss to a at 5:30 in the morning, and I league foe since 1995, Notre remember going to breakfast Dame took the pitch flat, giving after that with a couple girls on up a pair of second-half goals to the team,” junior defender Molly suffer a shocking exit from the Campbell said. “We were just conference tournament. talking about how either the team 
“It’s one thing if we played well would just implode or we would and lost, but we didn’t even play just kind of really respond. well on that day,” Irish coach Obviously we responded the best Randy Waldrum said. “We were way we could have.” really flat. It was late, [the play-It wasn’t just a change in men­ers] were taking things for grant-tality that sparked the NCAA run, ed — that we were good, and we however. The loss prompted Waldrum said. “She’s been really Waldrum said that the defeat good thing that we lost,” just had to show up.” Waldrum to make a lineup the key — we knew Lauren could forced him to finally make the Henderson said. 
Freshman defender Kecia change that would eventually pay do that because we had her doing change he had been contemplat-Her coach agreed. Morway agreed with her coach. huge dividends. Waldrum moved last year.” ing for some time. “You never want to lose,” 
“We went into that game kind senior Lauren Fowlkes from the Fowlkes’ offensive dynamism “We’d still not lost a game in a Waldrum said. “I would rather of uninterested and unexcited back line to the attack and put translated to the rest of the Notre while so I was a little reluctant to have won, and won the Big East because it was just another Campbell in her place. Waldrum Dame attack, as a formerly strug-make the change,” he said. “I tournament, don’t get me wrong.” game,” she said. “It kind of re-was rewarded with a three-goal, gling offense found its stride in think that loss, as a coach, forced After the first weekend of the motivated us because we realized two-assist effort from Fowlkes on the most crucial games of the me to do what we needed to do to NCAA Tournament, Waldrum that we actually have to work for the opening weekend of the tour-year. make those changes. I don’t know used one more phrase to describe our wins.” nament. “I think it really helped with our that I would have done that had the Connecticut game — this one 
There were no inspiring “The big question was whether offense, obviously,” Henderson we won that game.” more positive than the one his speeches after the loss. There [Campbell] could step in late in said. “Lauren’s really strong and Despite all of the positives that players used. was no emotional tirade. No tears the season with not a lot of prac-a good player to play off of, so it came from the loss, the Irish still “A blessing in disguise,” he were shed. There wasn’t even a tice in that position and show gave us a little diversity up front.” maintain they would have pre-said. players-only meeting to set the some consistency, especially at a Before the loss, the team had ferred to win the game with team straight. Rather, the Irish crucial time with the NCAAs, and been struggling through the latter Connecticut. Contact Allan Joseph forged a steely resolve after they she’s been fantastic there,” stages of its conference slate, and “It’s hard to say that’s it’s a ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Weiss grip 
Stalwart defense quietly drives team to College Cup; late-season switch pays dividends 
sudden improvement. midfield. 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Heading into the postseason, “Moving Molly back wasn’t a 
Sports Writer 
the squad had only allowed 10 real hard thing to do because goals in 18 games, while post-she had three really solid peo-
At a glance, Notre Dame’s ing 10 shutouts. ple around her that could kind convincing victories on the road “I think a lot of it really has to of help put her at ease when we to its College Cup appearance do with keeping the ball away made that change,” Waldrum this weekend can be a bit mis-from us,” Weiss said. “I think said. “She stepped in and has leading. Postseason success our offense does a good job of been fantastic for us in the that included a 4-0 dismantling that. We just work really well back. I can’t say enough.” of Southern California and a 4-together. We always try to stay In addition to being a capable 1 rout of North Carolina on the really close and tight, and move defender, Campbell brings an road will raise questions about around the field so we don’t offensive mentality to a group the team’s ease of schedule. leave a lot of of seasoned 
But in the eyes of Irish coach gaps in defenders. Rather Randy Waldrum, Notre Dame’s between.” “It’s like we don’t than detracting road to the Cup has nothing to Much of that from the back 
even talk anymore, 
do with luck of the draw. coordination line’s unity, 
it’s just kind of a
“Probably what was one of can be attrib-Campbell’s team-the hardest draws we’ve had in uted to taking look. We know each mates said they the four years I’ve been here,” the field each come to appreciate 
other so well that 
Waldrum said. “We’ve played game with the her nuances and 
it just comes.” 
some teams that are real capa-same person-aggressive tenden­ble of scoring a lot of goals on nel. Senior cies. you. The defense has carried us defender and Julie Scheidler “It was obviously and that’s what you need carry-f o u r -y e a r a good decision,” 
Senior defender
ing you at this time of the year.” starter Julie Weiss said. 
Posting three shutouts in its Scheidler said “Molly’s a very four tournament matches, the the back line has developed an solid player. She’s not a natu-Irish defense has stifled high-uncanny chemistry the stems ral-born defender, but some-powered offenses in the friend-from the players’ familiarity times it’s helpful that she has ly confines of Alumni Stadium with each other. that attacking mindset. She’s and before sell-out crowds on “It’s just a different feeling come in and really handled her the road. Well aware of the being friends with someone and job well.” stakes at hand, the backline then playing on the field next to While Campbell’s addition to has risen to the intensity of them — you just know what the defense came towards the each contest. their moves are going to be and end of the season, the Irish 
“Our tournament games have exactly what they’re going to came into the year with a num­really been the best games do,” Scheidler said. “It’s like we ber of talented underclassmen we’ve played all year long,” don’t even have to talk any-with limited or no experience to senior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss more, it’s just kind of a look. the back line vying for a start-said. “Since we We just know ing spot. Freshman Kecia to the table, the seasoned jun-job as the starting net-minder get here in each other so Morway and sophomore Jazmin ior adds direction and compo-during her first two seasons at August for [the] well that it just Hall emerged as the leading sure to the back line and to the Notre Dame, a result of incon­
“The defense has 
preseason, win-comes.” candidates, and the two have squad as a whole, Waldrum sistency and transitioning to 
carried us and that’s 
ning a national So when split time on the pitch all sea-said. collegiate play. championship is what you need Waldrum decid-son. “By leadership for us, it’s not “When you come in to Notre always our goal, ed to move sen-Waldrum credits their energy only on the field,” Waldrum Dame, you’re not sure how 
carrying you at this 
so once it actu-ior Lauren and ability to transition said. “In the last few weeks, high the level actually is,” 
time of the year.” 
ally comes time Fowlkes from smoothly to the collegiate level Jess has been really good, Weiss said. “For me, it just took to make that the back to the for their immediate success. especially since we moved a lot longer to adjust. Once I dream come Randy Waldrum midfield posi-“First I came in obviously Lauren out of kind of relaxed true we get tion following a really nervous because I didn’t the back. and started hav-
Irish coach
really excited.” 2-0 loss in the know the people playing Lauren was “Nikki’s played great ing fun, things But turning quarterfinals of around me,” Morway said. usually the for us all year and starting falling up the intensity the Big East “Throughout the season, with more vocal into place.” 
kept us in a lot of the 
in the postseason takes more championships, that chemistry all of everyone’s support in the player, and Waldrum said than flicking a switch. Notre was put to the test. But back line, I’ve kind of bonded now Jess has games early when we the turning point Dame’s defensive dominance in Fowlkes’ replacement, junior with them and learned how really stepped were trying to find in Weiss’ career the tournament has been an Molly Campbell, has proven to they played. It enabled me to up and organ-came during a
our way with the 
extension of the team’s regular be an excellent fit as she con-adjust to the system and do my ized things on 2-0 shutout over 
back.” 
season success rather than a tinues her transition from the job better.” the field and Florida State in Joining a defense that fea-has really the quarterfinals tures a lone senior and two jun-taken charge of the NCAA 
Randy Waldrum 
iors, Morway and Hall have on the field Championships 
Irish coach
made their contributions felt with her lead-last season. while still learning the ropes ership.” Weiss made five from an experienced line. The Quick to deflect praise, saves and grabbed a number of two have not only complement-Schuveiller said the team’s suc-crosses, leading the Irish in a ed each other well, but have cess can be attributed in large victory that sent them to the added youth to the dynamic part to Weiss, who has been a College Cup. group. mainstay in the Irish goal all “Last year when she stepped 
“Kecia and Jazz are doing season. in, she did a great job,” really well for us,” Weiss said. “[Nikki] is amazing,” Waldrum said. “She played “They’re very interchangeable, Schuveiller said. “Playing in great for us in the Final Four which is good. They both have front of her is really easy [in 2009]. Nikki’s played great different because she is for us all year and kept us in a strengths, which so confident. lot of the games early when we is really benefi-“I’ve kind of bonded She does a were trying to find our way cial against dif-great job com-with the back.” 
with them and 
ferent teams. municating and As the Irish travel to Cary, 
learned how they 
The combina-it helps out a N.C., to take on third-seeded tion of the played. It enabled me lot. It really Ohio State Friday in the semifi­upperclassmen to adjust to the sys-helps that nals of the College Cup, Weiss with the under-we’re all and the back line bolster a
tem and do my job 
classmen is friends on and Notre Dame squad that has really cohesive.” better” off the field, so been lifted by its defense all But talent and the chemistry is season. chemistry can there.” “We know we’re not going to 
Kecia Morway 
only take a team With the Big be the ones up on the score-
Freshman defender 
so far. East’s lowest board getting the goals or any-Regardless of a goals against thing,” Scheidler said, “but team’s experience level, leader-average (.53) and highest save when you get a good hard tack-ship and passion are an essen-percentage (.867) during the le in or you really get some­tial part of the championship regular season, Weiss has thing good, it sets the tone for equation. enjoyed tremendous success the game. You can see it boosts 
The defensive unit has both during her final season in an the whole rest of the team.” traits in second-year captain Irish uniform. But it wasn’t Jessica Schuveiller. More so always that way. Contact Chris Masoud at than the raw talent she brings Weiss struggled to earn the cmasoud@nd.edu 


Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 4 

Predicting the College Cup 

Mike Gotimer 
Sports Writer 
In a year where the NCAA Tournament has been filled with upsets, Notre Dame has remained the only constant, as the Irish head to the College Cup for the fifth straight season. With two teams making their first appearance in the Final Four and another seeking per­fection, Notre Dame finds itself in an ideal situation with the fewest dis­tractions of the four remaining teams. While the Irish have dominat­ed on both ends of the field through­out the tournament, their experience will reign supreme in this year’s College Cup. 
FINAL RESULT: Notre Dame 1, Stanford 0 Irish win national championship 

Allan Joseph 
Sports Writer 
It’s an interesting foursome in the College Cup. With traditional powers Notre Dame and Stanford matching up against Final Four newcomers Boston College and Ohio State, there’s a unique dynamic awaiting in North Carolina. The Cardinal and Irish absolutely domi­nated their regions, while the Eagles and Buckeyes struggled somewhat. I fully expect comfortable semifinal wins to set up a marquee Stanford-Notre Dame national championship. Both of those teams are loaded with talent, and while it’ll be about as nerve-wracking a final as possible, the experienced, even-keeled and tested Irish will prevail. 
FINAL RESULT: Notre Dame 3, Stanford 2 (OT) Irish win national championship 

Chris Masoud 
Sports Writer 
I’m not quite sure how the Buckeyes made it this far with four losses to their name, but I’ll take it. Notre Dame should blow past Ohio State by a wide margin to make it back to the title game. Although the Irish defense no longer features All-American Carrie Dew, it has lifted this team to the College Cup unlike previous years. That should be the difference that pushes this team to a national title. But Stanford will be Notre Dame’s toughest opponent yet, and even if Melissa Henderson plays like Melissa Henderson (which I think she will), the Irish may not get much. 
FINAL RESULT: Notre Dame 0, Stanford 0 (5-4 PKs) Irish win national championship 
The Observer 
SceneFriday, December 3, 2010 page 9 
Playing for Peace: Peace Rally and 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament 
,gamesstartat9a.m.;rallyat12p.m. Attendanceandparticipationisfree,t-shirtswillbe$5 
JointhetournamentorattendtherallytoraiseawarenessoftheconflictinSudan.Speakers 
sbasketballandKevinCorriganfrommen’slacrosse; EdBona,aSudanesenativewhowasthefirstAfricantoplayDiv.Ibasketball;JoeTouomou, aCameroonnativeandformercaptainofGeorgetown’sbasketballteam—andpossiblyeven TheodoreHesburgh. 
“The Best Christmas Pageant Ever” 
Theatre ,4and7p.m.Sunday,4p.m. 
BasedonthebookbyBarbaraRobinson,“TheBestChristmasPageantEver”fol­lowsthestoryofacouplewhocastthemostawfulkidsintownintheirChristmas pageant.HilarityandChristmascheerensue! 
Howmuch:FreetoallND/SMC/HCCstudents 
Thisindie-rockbandhailsfromColumbus,Ohio,andhasper­formedatPitchforkMusicFestival. 

The Undertones Christmas Concert 
Where:WashingtonHallMainStage When:Dec.10,8p.m. Howmuch:$5,availableatLaFortuneBoxOffice 
Kickoffstudydays(andstudydaynights)withChristmascrooning 

Notre Dame men’s basketball vs. Gonzaga 
Where:PurcellPavilionatJoyceCenter When:Dec.11,8:30p.m. Howmuch:$15-$40,individualticketsavailableat(574)-631-7356 
orhttp://und.com/tickets/nd-tickets-m-baskbl.html 
SupportourbasketballteamnextSaturdayintheirgameagainst Gonzaga.Takeabreakfromstudying,gowithagroupoffriends,and cheerfortheFightingIrishinwhatpromisestobeagreatgame! 

Notre Dame hockey vs. Northern Michigan 
Where:JACCrink When:Dec.11,7:05p.m.;Dec.12,4:05p.m. Howmuch:Limitedtickets,freetoallND/SMC/HCCstudents 
WatchtheIrishtaketheiceonSaturdayandSundaynextweek­endagainsttheNorthernMichigan.Cheerthemonastheytryto makeanotherruntotheFrozenFour. 

GASPAR GARICIA DE PAREDES Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, December 3, 2010 
NHL 
Gaborik and Avery combine in 6-5 victory 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Terrapins top Boilermakers 

Associated Press 
UNIONDALE, N.Y.. — Marian Gaborik had three goals and an assist in his first game with Sean Avery as a linemate, and Henrik Lundqvist made nine saves in relief of backup Martin Biron to lift the New York Rangers to a 6-5 victory over the New York Islanders on Thursday night. 
The Islanders, playing for the first time since snapping a 14-game losing streak (0-11­
3) on Friday, couldn’t make it two in a row in the opener of a home-and-home series with their biggest rival. The Islanders erased two two-goal leads — including one in the third period — but still lost. 
It was Gaborik’s second hat trick of the season and 12th in the NHL. His third goal of the night gave the Rangers a 6-5 lead with 5:25 remaining after Michael Grabner and Blake Comeau scored 1:41 apart to get the Islanders even. 
Erik Christensen, the third member of the Rangers’ top line, had a goal and assist, and Ryan Callahan and Brandon Prust also scored as the Rangers won for the fifth time in seven games. Avery had three assists after replac­ing Alex Frolov, who was dropped to the fourth line. 
Gaborik has four goals in two games following a bout with the flu, and Callahan has three goals in four games. Gaborik gave the Rangers a 4­3 lead with a power-play goal with 3:36 left in the second and stretched the advantage to 5-3 at 3:31 of the third off a backhanded pass from Avery. 
Grabner made it 5-4 with 
7:31 left. 
Lundqvist’s night off didn’t last long as he was called upon to bail out Biron when the Islanders grabbed a 3-2 lead with 7:30 left in the sec­ond period on Schremp’s goal. The Rangers’ No. 1 netminder had little to do the rest of the frame. His teammates scored twice 1:30 apart to go back in front, and Lundqvist faced only one shot — a drive in the final 30 seconds of the period. 
The Islanders began their first comeback when Konopka snapped his long scoring drought with a broken-play goal with 48.6 seconds remaining in the first. It was Konopka’s first goal in 57 games, dating to Jan. 2 when he was with Tampa Bay. 
The Islanders killed off the Rangers’ early power play in the second and withstood a high-energy shift by Callahan, in which the small forward landed several hits in the offensive zone. 
The Islanders got the puck up ice, and John Tavares made a crisp, behind-the-back backhanded pass from the left wing boards to Moulson, near the right post. With Biron out of position, Moulson calmly lifted a shot past him to make it 2-2 at 9:18. 
The onslaught continued just over 3 minutes later when Schremp put the Islanders ahead and ended Biron’s night. Biron, who played last season with the Islanders, allowed three goals on 21 shots. 
Avery played a strong over­all game. He had a prime chance off a pass from Gaborik less than 2 minutes in, but DiPietro smothered his one-timed shot — leaving Avery shaking his arms in frustration. 
The noted agitator got onto the score sheet with 8:11 left in the first period, assisting on Christensen’s goal. 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Lynetta Kizer scored 20 points to help No. 22 Maryland rally past Purdue 56-55 on Thursday night in the ACC/Big Ten Challenge. 
Alyssa Thomas and Diandra Tchatchouang each scored 12 points for the Terrapins (6-1), who trailed by 11 with 5:24 remaining. Maryland outre­bounded Purdue 40-27 and scored 20 points off offensive rebounds. 
Courtney Moses led Purdue with 12 points and five assists, but she also had seven turnovers and missed what could have been a game-win­ning shot in the closing sec­onds. 
It was Purdue’s first game since Nov. 21. The Boilermakers were scheduled to participate in the Caribbean Challenge at Playa del Carmen, Mexico, but the trip was can­celed when forward Drey Mingo was diagnosed with bacterial meningitis. She has been released from the hospi­tal, but she missed Thursday’s game against the school she transferred from last year and is out indefinitely. 
Purdue led 21-15 after two free throws by Brittany Rayburn, but Maryland rallied with a 6-0 run. Moses made a 3-pointer with 1:10 left in the first half to give the Boilermakers a 25-23 lead. Maryland tied the game with a pair of free throws in the final minute, then Alex Guyton banked in a shot on an assist from Moses as time expired in the first half to give Purdue a 27-25 lead at the break. 
Maryland led 37-34 before Purdue went on a 10-0 run. A three-point play and a 3-point­er by Moses helped Purdue take a 44-37 lead with 8 min­utes remaining. A layup by Rayburn, on another assist from Moses, pushed the advantage to 51-42 and brought the crowd to its feet. 
A 6-0 run by Maryland cut Purdue’s lead to 53-48. Moses, who had left the game because she had four fouls, came back in and almost immediately had an assist to Guyton to push the lead back to seven with 4:10 to play and temporarily slow Maryland’s momentum. 
The Terrapins surged again. Two baskets by Tchatchouang cut Purdue’s lead to 55-54 with 1:27 remaining. 
Purdue’s Antionette Howard missed a jumper, and Maryland moved quickly downcourt. Thomas’ layup with 52 seconds left gave Maryland a 56-55 lead with 52 seconds to play. 
MLB 
Jeter closes in on new contract 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The New York Yankees increased their con­tract offer to Derek Jeter. 
The team informed Jeter’s side of the new offer during a telephone conversation early Thursday, a person familiar with the negotiations said. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because no announcement was made. 
“The ball’s in Derek’s court now, and his agent,” Yankees co-chairman Hank Steinbrenner said later Thursday in a telephone inter­view with The Associated Press. “It’s up to them.” 
Jeter’s agent, Casey Close, declined comment. But since negotiations resumed Tuesday, talks have appeared to gain a little momentum. 
“We don’t know how happy they are. We’ll see,” Steinbrenner said. “There’s no possible way anybody could criticize us for what we’ve offered.” 
New York opened with a $45 million, three-year proposal last month, then awaited a for­mal counteroffer from its cap­tain. It was not known whether the new offer improved the value, contract length or both. 
Before the sides met this week, their first session since Nov. 8, Close had suggested a contract averaging about $23 million for four or five seasons. 

Steinbrenner thinks talks are progressing well to re-sign closer Mariano Rivera, who like Jeter is a free agent. 
“I think you can be pretty confident in Mo,” he said. “We’re looking good.” 
While negotiating with its own players who became free agents, the Yankees are antici­pating talks will intensify at next week’s winter meetings with Cliff Lee. Among other team’s free agents, the 32­year-old left-hander is New York’s No. 1 priority. 
“It’s no secret we want Cliff, and we will do what we can to get him,” Steinbrenner said. “That’s the bottom line.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about Buddy: [phone rings, Buddy picks it Gimbel's Manager: Why are you Buddy: [thinking Miles is an elf] Did has been sexually assaulted, we up] Buddy the Elf, what's your smiling like that? you have to borrow a reindeer to
FOR RENT PERSONALS can help. For more information, visit favorite color? Buddy: I just like to smile, smiling's get down here? Notre Dame's website: my favorite Miles Finch: Hey, jackweed, I get http://csap.nd.edu. Buddy: We elves try to stick to the more action in a week than you've 
6 Bedroom 2 Bath house UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ——————————————— four main food groups: candy, Buddy: You sit on a throne of lies. had in your entire life. I've got hous­Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has In honor of Carroll Christmas (6-10 candy canes, candy corns and es in L.A., Paris and Vail. In each available for 2011-12 school year. many resources in place to assist tonight. Be there.), quotes from Elf: syrup. Buddy: You smell like beef and one, a 70 inch plasma screen. So I you. If you or someone you love cheese, you don't smell like Santa. suggest you wipe that stupid smile Close to campus needs confidential support or assis-Buddy: It's just like Santa's work-Puffin: Hey Buddy wanna pick off your face before I come over tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at shop! Except it smells like mush-some snowberries? Walter: [whispering] I think we there and SMACK it off! You feeling student rental area. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For rooms... and everyone looks like Buddy: Not now Arctic Puffin! should call security. strong, my friend? Call me elf one more information, visit ND's website they wanna hurt me... Deb: [whispering] Good idea. more time. Call for details 574-329-3849 at: Buddy: I'm a cotton-headed ninny-Buddy: [whispering] I like to whisper Buddy: [after a pause] He's an http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. Buddy: The yellow ones don’t stop! muggins. too! angry elf. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NBA 
James silences Cleveland crowd in Heat victory 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — First the Cleveland fans had their say, then LeBron James answered. 
James led a 16-0 first-quar­ter surge that quieted the boos and abuse of fans who used to call him King, scoring 38 points to lead the Miami Heat to a 118-90 victory over the Cavaliers on Thursday night. 
It was James’ first game back in the city where he played for seven years before leaving via free agency, angering disbelieving fans who considered him one of their own. 
Dwyane Wade added 22 points, James Jones 18 and Chris Bosh 15 for the Heat, a star-studded team which has seldom played like one in going 12-8 so far. 
Daniel Gibson scored 21 for the Cavaliers, who have lost six of eight and now play seven of their next eight on the road. 
James had 10 more points than Cleveland’s starting line­up. 
Ahead by 19 at the half, the Heat poured it on by shooting 73 percent from the field in the third quarter, with James going 10 of 12 and Wade hit­ting all four of his attempts to stretch the lead to 30 points. 
James sat on the bench for all of the fourth quarter, with dozens of security guards and police lining the team’s entrance to the court and guarding against objects thrown at him. After the final seconds sifted away, he left without incident. 
Until then, James frequently bantered with his former coaches with the Cavaliers and even talked to fans at courtside. The native of near­by Akron smiled while shoot­ing free throws, in spite of what seemed like the entire arena chanting, “Akron hates you!” 
The early spurt left a crowd of 20,562 with nothing left to cheer except James’ occasion­al missed shot. He didn’t miss many, finishing 15 of 25 from the field, to go with eight assists and five rebounds. 
James, of course, left the Cavaliers this summer to take his act to sunny Miami. Before the game, fans pep­pered him with obscene chants and booed every time he appeared on the giant monitors over midcourt. 
Fans held up signs that read, “Quitness” and “Play Like It’s Game Five” — a ref­erence to his Nike marketing campaign and also last sea­son’s pivotal game in the play­off series with Boston, when many felt James had quit on the Cavaliers. There were five guys wearing a single letter each on their white T-shirts that spelled out: LeBum. 
Cleveland native and game show host Drew Carey, Browns icon Bernie Kosar, Indians slugger Travis Hafner and most of the current Browns were cheered wildly when, just before the start, they slowly made their way to courtside seats. Cincinnati Bengals receiver Terrell Owens even was in atten ­dance. 
By far, the loudest cheers were saved for Cavs owner Dan Gilbert, who had ripped James after his decision, say­ing he quit on the Cavaliers during their season-ending playoff series with the Celtics last spring. 
It didn’t take long for the Heat to end the suspense once the game began. 
Cleveland led 17-12 early, but James led the 16-0 surge that all but put the game on ice. He scored on a reverse layup in traffic to put the Heat up 19 -17 at the 3:10 mark and they never looked back. 
With the Cavaliers falling farther and farther behind, the fans had to content them­selves with cheering each time James had a shot 
blocked or  was  called for  a  
foul.  
W h e n  h e  w a s  b a r e l y  

bumped with 4:28 left in the first quarter by Cleveland’s Joey Graham 20 feet from the 
basket, he flopped onto the floor. The crowd went crazy when the replay showed the former Akron St. Vincent-St. Mary High School star hit the deck, with lusty boos follow­ing when it appeared he might have embellished the contact. 
During warmups, they booed whenever James touched the ball and cheered whenever his shots clanged out. 

He hit a mid-range jumper at the 10:41 mark for his first points — and the crowd responded angrily. 
By the end, though, they were quiet. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December 3, 2010 
MLB 
White Sox sign Adam Dunn 
Dunn will give the White Sox 
Associated Press 
the power lefty they have been 
CHICAGO — Slugging first missing since Jim Thome was baseman Adam Dunn has shipped to the Dodgers at the agreed to join the Chicago White end of the 2009 season. And Sox for a four-year, $56 million when the White Sox decided not contract, a person familiar with to reacquire Thome in 2010, he the negotiations told The signed with the AL Central rival Associated Press on Twins. Thursday. During a 
The person spoke conference call 
“We think it is 
on condition of Th ursday, anonymity because important we White Sox gen-the deal has not continue to try to add eral manager been officially Ken Williams 
a few more
announced. If Dunn declined to 
signifcant pieces to
passes aphysical, directly he could be intro-the mix.” address duced Friday at a Dunn’s deal news conference. with Chicago, 
Ken Williams 
Dunn hit 38 home saying ques-
White Sox GM
runs with 103 RBIs tions could be 
for Washington last season. He hit .260 and is the big, left-handed bat the White Sox were seeking. 
Even after adding Dunn, the White Sox are still hoping to re­sign Paul Konerko, who is a free agent after turning down Chicago’s arbitration offer. 
The 31-year-old Dunn has a career batting average of .250, with 354 homers and 880 RBIs in 10 major league seasons with the Reds, Diamondbacks and Nationals. He is also prolific with strikeouts and had 199 last sea­son, but would potentially put up big offensive numbers in homer-friendly U.S. Cellular Field. 
The Nationals listened to trade offers for Dunn at the July dead­line but decided not to make a deal. Reports say the White Sox were one of those teams inter­ested at the time. 
answered dur­
ing a news conference Friday at 2 p.m. at the ballpark. 
Williams said he definitely hopes to bring Konerko back and have his right-handed bat in the same lineup with Dunn. They would likely alternate at first and DH. 
“Not only is there room for it, it would be the ideal fit from our perspective,” Williams said. “We can’t get too far ahead of our­selves.” 
Williams said he’s trying to be patient and respect Konerko’s right to explore the free agent market. Konerko finished fifth in the AL MVP balloting last season when he batted .312 with 39 homers and 111 RBIs. 
Williams said he presented two scenarios to owner Jerry Reinsdorf for approaching the season — one to go with younger players and move out veterans and the second to add to the current mix. 
It’s obvious, that with the acquisition of Dunn, they went with the latter. 
“We just didn’t want to be in the middle,” Williams said. “So the decision was if we’re going all in, we’re going all in. It’s been a difficult challenge to find the revenue to support the pay­roll and we’re out there on a limb a little bit obviously, but we think it is important we continue to try to add a few more signifi­cant pieces to the mix.” 
It was a busy day for the White Sox. They declined to tender a contract to closer Bobby Jenks, who is second in club history with 173 saves. Jenks missed the final 27 games last season with ulnar neuritis in his right fore­arm. 
Williams said he hasn’t closed the door on bringing back Jenks at a lesser salary. He made $7.5 million last year. Williams said he’d also had conversations with free agent catcher A.J. Pierzynski, who was not offered arbitration by the White Sox. 
“I got to be careful at this point,” Williams said. “I’ll be completely honest, the next thing I would really like to put on the table or put back in uni­form is Paul Konerko.” 
Earlier Thursday the White Sox exercised a club option on shortstop Alexei Ramirez. He will earn a base salary of $2.75 million. He had opted out of the final year of the deal he signed on Jan. 22, 2008. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Dunn lifts No. 11 Baylor over ASU 
Associated Press 
WACO, Texas — LaceDarius Dunn had 24 points with six 3­pointers and sparked the tie-breaking run after halftime as No. 11 Baylor stretched its home win­ning streak to 11 games with a 68­54 victory over Arizona State on Thursday night. 
Dunn made all of his 3-pointers before bruising his left forearm when he fell hard to the court going for an offensive rebound with 
6:43 left. He was on the court writhing in pain, then went to the bench, where he kept rubbing his arm and grimacing before return­ing 2 minutes later. He was still hurting when he got back in the game. 
It was only Dunn’s third game this season for Baylor (6-0). 
Rihards Kuksiks hit consecutive 3-pointers for Arizona State (3-3) in the opening minute of the sec­ond half to tie the game at 33. Dunn responded with a 3-pointer, the first of his two in a quick 7-2 run that gave Baylor the lead for good. 
Dunn, the leading scorer last season when Baylor made it to an NCAA regional final and had a school-record 28 wins, was sus­pended for the first three games of the season after a domestic dispute charge earlier this fall. 
In his three games since return­ing, Dunn has averaged 22.7 points a game and made 16 3-pointers. He was already Baylor’s career leader for 3-pointers, and now has 315 — with at least one in 20 con-secutive games. 

Kuksiks led Arizona State with 13 points, while Ty Abott had 12 on four 3-pointers and Kyle Cain scored 10 points. 
A.J. Walton had 13 points, four steals, three assists and five rebounds for Baylor. Freshman Perry Jones had 12 points. 
Baylor was up 59-45 when Dunn got hurt, a play on which he was called for a foul. When he was sit­ting at the scorers table waiting to return, and even when he got back on the court, he was rubbing and shaking his arm. 
Soon after getting back in the game, he dived on the court for a loose ball — reaching out with his left arm that was hit by a defender. He stayed in the game, and only made two free throws after that. 
Baylor hadn’t trailed at all its previous three games, and coach Scott Drew called a timeout after Arizona State had a 5-0 lead only 83 seconds into the game. The Bears responded with a 16-3 run, when the only ASU basket was Abbott’s 3-pointer. 
After Abbott’s 3 put the Sun Devils up 8-7, they had four turnovers and got off one shot over the next 4½ minutes. Jones had a dunk and another inside basket, Dunn hit a 3 and Walton had a fadeaway jumper for a 16-8 Baylor lead. 
The Bears stretched the lead to 30-18 when J’mison Morgan gath­ered in the ball underneath the basket and made a reverse layup with just under 7 minutes left until halftime, when they still led 33-27. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAA responds to Cam Newton scandal 

Associated Press 
NCAA President Mark Emmert responded Thursday to the back­lash that the governing body is allowing Cam Newton to play in the SEC championship game even though his father sought payment for his services. 
“We recognize that many peo­ple are outraged at the notion that a parent or anyone else could ‘shop around’ a student-athlete and there would possibly not be repercussions on the stu­dent-athlete’s eligibility,” Emmert said in a statement on the NCAA’s web site. 
Emmert added that he’s com­mitted to “further clarifying and strengthening our recruiting and amateurism rules so they pro­mote appropriate behavior by students, parents, coaches and third parties.” He also said the NCAA will “work aggressively with our members to amend our bylaws so that this type of behav­ior is not a part of intercollegiate athletics.” 
The NCAA ruled Wednesday that the Heisman favorite was unaware of the pay-for-play scheme concocted by his father, Cecil, and the owner of a scouting service. The NCAA declared Newton eligible to play for sec­ond-ranked Auburn Saturday against No. 18 South Carolina. 
Cecil Newton and Kenny Rogers — the former Mississippi State player who worked for an agent — sought money for the quarterback to play for the Bulldogs. 
George Lawson, the Newton family attorney, said Thursday that Cecil Newton cooperated with the NCAA. 
“Cam’s father participated in the investigation truthfully and honestly in terms of what he knew and what he didn’t know, regardless of the consequences,” Lawson told WSB-TV in Atlanta. 
As to whether any money changed hands, the attorney said: “Absolutely not.” 
Lawson added that he “would hope” the investigation is over. 
“But if it is not at an end, Cam and his family will continue to participate,” he said. 
Within the span of two days, the NCAA notified Auburn of vio­lations of amateurism rules, the school declared Newton ineligi­ble, and then the governing body reinstated him, clearing Newton to compete without conditions. 
The NCAA noted that reinstate­ment decisions are separate from the enforcement process and usually are “likely to conclude prior to the close of an investiga­tion.” 
On its web site Thursday NCAA vice president of enforcement Julie Roe Lach said her staff investigates all types of rules vio­lations. 
“Some of these investigations affect student-athlete eligibility and others do not,” Lach explained. “The investigation does not stop with a student-ath­lete eligibility issue, but school officials must address it as soon as they are aware of the viola­tions.” 
The NCAA also took issue with comparisons made to the case involving Reggie Bush at Southern California, which was heavily punished for extra bene­fits received by the Heisman Trophy winner from two aspiring sports marketers. 
The NCAA said “If a student-athlete does not receive tangible benefits, that is a different situa­tion from a student-athlete or family member who receives cash, housing or other benefits or knowingly competes and is com­pensated as a professional ath­lete.” 
Mark Jones, an Indianapolis attorney who works with NCAA-related cases, said the reinstate­ment committee generally relies on the school’s self-report in making decisions involving eligi­bility issues and doesn’t investi­gate. 
He said the swift movement on reinstatement is common during an athlete’s season. 
“The student-athlete reinstate­ment staff’s job is to evaluate things from the student-athlete’s perspective,” said Jones, the chair of collegiate sports practice for Ice Miller. “That’s very impor­tant in analyzing what they’re going to do in terms of whether any sanctions might be necessary for the student-athlete.” 
Kevin Lennon, NCAA vice pres­ident of academic and member­ship affairs, said on the web site that when the reinstatement staff reviews eligibility cases they review each case based on its own merits and specific facts. 
“During the decision, we must examine a number of factors, including guidelines established by our membership for what con­ditions should be applied based on the nature and scope of the violation,” Lennon said. “We also carefully consider any mitigating factors presented by the universi­ty to determine if relief from the guidelines should be provided.” 
Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NHL 
SharksshutoutSenators in Heatley’s return 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA — Dany Heatley’s return to Ottawa gave the NHL a hostile homecoming of its own. 
Logan Couture scored twice and Heatley had an assist in his first game in Ottawa since forcing the trade that sent him to San Jose, leading the Sharks to a 4-0 victory over the Senators on Thursday night. 
Antti Niemi made 28 saves for his first shutout of the season — and San Jose’s first, too. 
Patrick Marleau and Justin Braun scored power-play goals on the Sharks’ first two chances. 
Heatley, who drew both Ottawa hooking penalties that led to San Jose’s first two goals, was booed constantly as he played his first game at Scotiabank Place since leaving the team before last season. 
“It definitely gets the adrenaline going a little bit more, not only for me but I thought for both teams out there, especially early,” Heatley said. “It was kind of a playoff atmosphere in there and I thought the pace was really good to start the game.” 
Couture scored the Sharks’ third and fourth goals in the first half of the third. 
Pascal Leclaire stopped 29 shots for Ottawa, which has lost seven of nine, including a 4-3 loss to Edmonton on Monday night. 
On the same night that NBA superstar LeBron James was enduring the vitriol of his former fans in his return to Cleveland, Heatley was subjected to the scorn of his one-time admirers in the Canadian capital. 
A two-time 50-goal scorer with the Senators, Heatley was booed loudly throughout his shifts in the first period, prompting chants of “Traitor! Traitor!” 
“He was a rallying point for our team tonight,” Sharks coach Todd McLellan said. “Players elevated their play for him and they wanted to get it done, and that’s a real good sign for us.” 
A Heatley No. 15 Senators jersey was tossed onto the ice during a stop in play early in the game but the Ottawa fans’ wrath later dwin­dled to jeering their former star only when he touched the puck. 

NHL 
Crosby,PenguinsbeatAtlanta 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Sidney Crosby scored all three Pittsburgh goals for the first natural hat trick of his six-sea­son career and the Penguins won a matchup of teams on long winning streaks, beating the Atlanta Thrashers 3-2 on Thursday night. 
With Crosby becoming the first Penguins player in nearly 10 years to score three goals in successive home games, Pittsburgh ran its winning streak to eight games. Atlanta’s franchise record-tying six-game streak ended. 
The Penguins, 10-0-1 in their last 11, are on their longest winning streak since they also won eight in a row from Dec. 23, 2007-Jan. 10, 2008. They have won their last eight at home against Atlanta, which had outscored opponents 22-5 during its winning streak. 
Marc-Andre Fleury allowed Nik Antropov’s goal that made it 3-2 late in the second period, but made 20 saves while improving to 9-0-1 in his last 10 starts. 
It took the NHL’s hottest scor­er to beat one of the league’s hottest teams. Crosby has scored six goals in his last two home games — he had three Saturday against Calgary — and has 15 goals and 14 assists for 29 points in 14 games. 
Crosby, the league’s leading scorer with 21 goals and 23 assists for 44 points in 27 games, tied Tampa Bay’s Steven Stamkos for the goal­scoring lead. They tied for the goals title last season with 51 apiece. 

Crosby did not score three consecutive goals during any of his six previous hat tricks, but he did so against Atlanta goalie Ondrej Pavelec, who had an 
0.83 goals-against average during Atlanta’s winning streak. 
Bryan Little scored off a rebound 6:21 into the game, the first goal allowed by Pittsburgh’s league-leading penalty-killing unit in its oppo­nents’ last 33 power plays. Pittsburgh had gone nine games without giving up a man-advantage goal. 
Crosby needed only 1 minute, 11 seconds to tie it, settling down a bouncing pass from Chris Kunitz at the side of the net and beating Pavelec. 
Crosby reached the 20-goal mark early in the second peri­od, surprising teammate Arron Asham as Asham gathered the puck deep in his own zone and saw Crosby 50 feet behind any defender at the far blue line. Crosby broke in on Pavelec one-on-one and beaten him cleanly with a backhander. 
Crosby completed his hat trick at 10:18 of the second, deftly deflecting Brooks Orpik’s slap shot from the blue line. No Penguins player had scored hat tricks in successive home games since Alex Kovalev on Feb. 7 & 10, 2001. 
There was an audible stir after that any time Crosby had the puck on his stick near the net, but he couldn’t score again. Crosby has never had an NHL four-goal game. 
Pavelec has been nearly unbeatable in net for two weeks, giving up five goals in six games while stopping 183 of 188 shots, but he is 0-6 against Pittsburgh while allow­ing an average of nearly five goals per game. 

NFL Vick throws for 302 yards in Eagles victory 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Michael 
Vick shook off all the hard hits, 
continued to get up off the 
ground and kept making plays. 
Vick threw for 302 yards and accounted for three touchdowns, rallying the Philadelphia Eagles to a 34-24 victory over the Houston Texans on Thursday night. 
Vick was hurried, harassed and battered throughout the game. But he never stayed down despite taking a bunch of jarring hits, and scored the go-ahead touchdown on a 2-yard run. 
“He got knocked around a little bit,” coach Andy Reid said. “He got back up and kept going. I loved his energy in the second half. Both sides of the ball, he was firing them up.” 
It was the first time Vick led the 
Eagles (8-4) back from a fourth-
quarter deficit. They led 14-3 in 
the first half before falling behind 
24-20. 
“We did a great job battling back,” Vick said. 
Matt Schaub had 337 yards passing and two scores for the Texans (5-7). Andre Johnson had 149 yards receiving — four days after his hockey-like fight with Tennessee’s Cortland Finnegan. 
The NFC East-leading Eagles were coming off their first loss in a game that Vick started and fin­ished. He was 5-0 before a 31-26 loss at Chicago. 
Vick continued his remarkable comeback story with another outstanding performance. He completed 22 of 33 passes for two touchdowns, and had his third 300-yard game. Vick, a three-time Pro Bowl pick in six seasons with Atlanta, only had two 300-yard games coming into this year. He also ran for 48 yards and a score. 
“This young man is playing as good as anybody I’ve seen play in the NFL and I’ve been doing it for a while,” Texans coach Gary Kubiak said of Vick. “He’s special and we just tried to contain him, but obviously he still had a big night. He’s been doing it against a lot of people so. ... We had a cou­ple of chances for turnovers. He gave us a couple of opportunities that we just didn’t take advan­tage of.” 
After the Texans took their first lead in the third quarter, the Eagles quickly answered. Vick sneaked in from the 2 to put Philadelphia ahead 27-24 early in the fourth. Vick’s 33-yard pass to DeSean Jackson to the Texans 11 set up the score. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December 3, 2010 
Jackson 
continued from page 16 
the top. Miami is one of them,” Jackson said. “It’s a lot easier to develop those rivalries when you’re playing a team four times a year, which we will this year with Miami.” 
The young Irish team enjoyed a nice week off the ice, as sophomore center Riley Sheahan was invited to the Canada World Junior Championship selection try­out and freshman center T.J. Tynan was named the CCHA Rookie of the Month for November. The young core that includes Tynan and Sheahan has Jackson opti­mistic that his team willl be able to compete with the bal­ance of the nation’s top pro­grams. 
“[Miami is] a great program to emulate. Similar to Boston College and some of the other top programs, they build the team through real solid recruiting, nice balance of 
Welsh 
continued from page 16 
the Hawkeyes fell to No. 13 Minnesota in their last meet. The team, however, has had nearly a month to recover and train since that loss. 
“We’d like to see how fast we can race against them,” 
Welsh said.  
Welsh and his  team  have  
t a k e n  t h e  r e c e n t  
T h a n k s g i v i n g  b r e a k  t o  

train hard and rest up for the meet. The team worked on strengthening its train­ing base in the days before Thanksgiving and went “back to hard work, back to basics.” 
“We want high speed stuff in practice that approaches race pace, ” Welsh said. 
skill guys and gritty guys,” Jackson said. “That’s where we’re trying to get to. They have good balance up and down their lineup. They’re probably as good a team as we just played. North Dakota and Miami, to me, on paper, should be two of the best teams in the country.” 
The Redhawks are led by a strong trio of forwards that includes seniors Carter Camper and Andy Miele and sophomore Reilly Smith. Camper leads Miami with 32 points on the season. 
“They’ve got three of the best forwards, and they’re much deeper than that,” Jackson said. “Camper is a character guy. Smith’s really come into his own this year. They’re deeper than that even.” 
The puck will drop on the first game of the series at Steve Cady Arena at 7:35 
p.m. on Friday, and the teams will play again at 7:05 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
“Traditionally, the weekend after Thanksgiving break is a good weekend for us to race. They are fresher and more energetic.” 
The Irish go into the Iowa Invitational after defeating Utah, 184 -116, Nov. 12 . The Irish then head to San Juan, Puerto Rico, for win­ter training in late December. They begin 2011 by traveling first to Northwestern Jan . 12, Cleveland State Jan . 14 and Michigan State Jan. 21. 
The Irish don’t return to the Rolfs Aquatic Center until the Shamrock Invitational at the end of January, their last meet before the Big East cham­pionships. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
bus with their second loss of the season. 
McGraw 
continued from page 16 
“Purdue is a team that’s getting votes in the top-25 poll, and they’re a fairly young team, similar to us,” McGraw said. 
After playing four games in six days at a relatively busy time of the academic year, the Irish 
“I think there are quite a few fundamentals we need to improve on. The guards need to take better care of the ball, we had too many turnovers. We’re going to 
w o r k  o n  d e f e n s e ,  t o o , ”  
McGraw said.  
T h o u g h  t h e  I r i s h  h a v e  

their work cut out for them, the Baylor game showed enough 
(5-3) are excit­e d a b o u t t h e t i m e o f f t o practice. “ Yo u d o n ’t  “It’s going to be a big game, and we’re all hoping for a good crowd.”  s t r o n g a r e a s that the Irish will be bring-i n g t o t h e court against  
g e t  t i m e  t o  Purdue.  
practice when you play a lot of times. Now  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  “We pl ay ed well in spurts a n d w e s h o t  
w e  h a v e  t i m e  the ball well,  
t o  p r a c t i c e , ”  too,” McGraw  
Mc Gr a w sa i d.  sai d.  “  I feel  

“We’re looking forward to like we have the pieces, but getting back in the gym.” we’re struggling to putting 
The loss against No. 2 it together for 40 minutes. Baylor gave the Irish good I’m really confident that insight as to what they will we’re going to.” need to work on to ensure Notre Dame boasts a com-they can send the petitive relationship with Boilermakers back to their the Boilermakers as the two 
Daniel 
continued from page 16 
lenge his team will be up against Saturday. 
“Calvin was picked to fin­ish second in our confer­ence and they have been ranked in the Division III top -25 this year,” Daniel said. “Calvin is very well-coached and returns some very good players.” 
He said his team must execute at a high level and avoid any sloppy play, but he feels the opening stretch of their schedule 
h a s  p r e p a r e d  h i s  t e a m  
well.  
“ We  m u s t  p l a y  g r e a t  

pressure defense, control the boards, limit our turnovers and execute on 
offense to give ourselves the opportunity to be suc­cessful in our first home met 10 years ago in the national championship game, which the Irish won, 68-66. 
The Boilers lost to Maryland Thursday for their first loss of the sea­son, a 56 -55 defeat that shattered their six -game win streak. 
Though a 4-1 record gives Purdue a good confidence boost heading into the game at Notre Dame, its season has not been partic­ularly easy. Boilermaker Drey Mingo was hospital­ized for bacterial meningi­tis, which caused Purdue’s athletic director to cancel the team’s trip to Cancun. They missed out on an appreciable portion of their season due to Mingo’s ill­ness. 
“It ’s going to be a big game, and we’re all hoping for a good crowd,” McGraw said. 
Tip-off is scheduled for 2 
p.m. Sunday. The game will be aired on ESPN2. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
game of the year,” Daniel said. “Being on the road in our first six games hope­fully has prepared this team for conference play that I believe will very competitive this year. Playing Calvin will be a great test for us in our conference opener.” 
Saturday ’s game will begin at 3 p.m. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 

JEFF KNUREK
TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 
JUMBLE
LAURA MCGINN 
MIKE ARGIRION 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Friday, December 3, 2010 page 16 
HOCKEY 
On the road again 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off a difficult trip to North Dakota, where the young No. 12 Irish lost Friday and fought back to salvage a tie Saturday, Notre Dame will continue its “Murderer’s Row” schedule with a weekend series against No. 6 Miami (Ohio) in Oxford. 
“It’s going to be very simi­lar circumstances. We have to be better Friday,” Irish head coach Jeff Jackson said. “That’s the key. We weren’t as good as we should have been Friday night. I think 
our team was, to some degree, awestruck by the facilities and just the overall environment of that building. 
“Hopefully going into this weekend, Friday night, we’ll be better prepared to do well. On the road, when you’re playing two games on 
YUE WU/The Observer 
the road, Friday night is 
Junior right wing Billy Maday carries the puck in the Irish’s 4-2 win over Michigan always the night that you State on Nov. 20. The win improved Notre Dame’s home winning streak to six. have a better opportunity to 
be successful.” Dakota, the Irish are now 2-2 that we will hopefully get CCHA rivalry. Notre Dame (9-4-2, 7-2-1-in their last four Friday night better.” “They’re a great team. If 
1) has gotten off to a strong games. The Irish have lost six we’re going to be a great start this season and trails “We’ve had a history in the straight to Miami, including program, we have to have Miami (9 -4-3, 7-3-2-1) by past of being pretty good on 1-0 and 4-0 defeats last sea-natural rivalries with teams one point in the CCHA stand-Friday nights, but this year son, but this year’s team will that are competing to be at ings. hasn’t been as positive, ” attempt to break the streak 
After the loss to North Jackson said. “I’m hoping in the increasingly energized see JACKSON/page 14 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belleslookto stay hot in December 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
After one of the most suc­cessful Novembers in school history, Saint Mary’s is set to take on No. 23 Calvin Saturday in the Belles ’ home and confer ­ence opener. 
The Belles (5 -1) are led by junior forward Kelley Murphy, who leads the team in scoring and rebounding and is averag­ing nearly a double-double with 15.8 points per game and 9.7 rebounds per game. Saint Mary’s is also receiving big contributions from junior guard Maggie Ronan, who is averaging 
12.5 points per game. 
The Knights opened their conference season with a 75-40 victory over Adrian, giving them a record of 4-2 
overall and 1-0 in MIAA play. If the Belles are going to win they must find a way to contain preseason All ­American Carissa Verkaik, who is averaging 22.4 points and 9.8 rebounds per game. 
Belles interim coach Patrick Daniel said he knows what kind of chal ­
see DANIEL/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
TeamsettotakeonrivalPurdue 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
With two days left to work out a few kinks before in­state rival Purdue comes to the Purcell Pavilion Sunday, the No. 16 Irish are hoping to build on Thursday’s 76­65 loss to Baylor. 
“We always have a good game against Purdue,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “It’s a lot of Midwest kids that know each other really well. The Purdue game is always a big game on our schedule.” 
With a 4-1 record, Purdue has flirted with a national ranking but has not been able to break into the top­25 yet this season. 
see MCGRAW/page 14 

KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer Freshman forward Kayla McBride lays it up in Notre Dame’s 99-48 win over New Hampshire on Nov. 12. 
MEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish prepare for tough Invitational 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish begin a string 
of four away meets this weekend when they travel to the Hawkeye Invitational at Iowa. 
The three -day event, which will see the Irish (3-2) face host Iowa (3-1), Denver (3 -1), South Dakota State (3-1), Green Bay (5-1) and Milwaukee (6 -3), begins today with preliminary races at 10 
a.m. The final races are set to begin at 4 p.m. Sunday. The Notre Dame divers will also compete against No. 8 Ohio State. 
This will be Notre Dame ’s first trip to the annual invitational, held in Iowa’s brand new pool. 
“There will be wonder­ful conditions, ” Irish coach Tim Welsh said . “We ’re eager to race in their new pool.” 
The Irish have not pre­viously raced against many of the teams at the invitational, but Welsh said there will be a num­ber of tight races. 
“It’s a very good field,” 
We l sh  s a i d .  “ We  w a n t  t o  
be in  a  very good field  so  
that we’re challenged.”  
I o w a  s h o u l d  b e  o n e  o f  

the team’s toughest com­petitors despite the fact 
see WELSH/page 14 


Photo Illustration by Pat Coveney and Jaclyn Espinoza 
Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 2 
Road-tested ND faces Ohio St. in semifinals 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
No. 7 Notre Dame will head to its fifth consecutive College Cup this weekend in Cary, N.C., where it will face No. 17 Ohio State in the national semifinal. 
Although the Irish (19-2-2) were highly ranked and had a reputation as one of college soc­cer’s elite programs, a 2-0 loss to Connecticut in the quarterfi­nals of the Big East champi­onships resulted in a drop to a fourth seed in the NCAA Tournament. The lower seed gave the Irish a daunting road to the College Cup in which they played three ranked teams and traveled nearly 4,000 miles. 
“I think when the bids came out, all the girls didn’t publicly come out and say anything and we didn’t either, and I think we all felt like we got a little bit of a shaft on that,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “I think we were expecting a two seed, and to get a four [seed], we were all disappointed in that. So I think they had a little bit of a point to prove, so that’s proba­bly served as a little motivation.” 
Since that loss, the Irish have dominated their opponents on both ends of the field, outscoring opponents 13-1 thus far in the tournament. Waldrum said he believes this team has played as well as any other team he has coached during his tenure at Notre Dame. 
“I think this team is really well prepared, and I think it’s got all the ingredients,” Waldrum said. “It could win it. You know now we [have to] still go out and per­form on the day, but I think it’s as good right now as any team that we’ve had coming through at this point in the year.” 

While Notre Dame has been to the College Cup 12 times in its history, Ohio State (17-4-2) is making its first appearance on college soccer’s biggest stage. Although the Irish have a clear advantage in experience, Waldrum isn’t ready to say this team will have an easy road to Sunday night’s final. 
“I think it is [Ohio State’s] first time there, and that can be a dangerous thing,” Waldrum said. “You know, it can be one of those Cinderella runs like USC did a few years ago — the first time they were in they won the whole thing — and so I think Ohio State certainly has a good enough team to do that.” 
The Buckeyes will present challenges for the Irish on both sides of the ball, but their defense has been especially sound, allowing just 0.61 goals per game. 
“They don’t give up many goals. They look to be a team that’s really organized, so I think it’s [going to] be a great game,” Waldrum said. “I think it should be a really good matchup, and you know when you get to the final four teams, you’re playing somebody good.” 
Should the Irish get past Ohio State on Friday, they will face the winner of the other semifi­nal contest between No.1 Stanford and No. 18 Boston College. Like the 2008 Notre Dame squad, which entered the College Cup unbeaten and ranked No. 1 in the country, the Cardinal (22-0-2) enter this year’s College Cup looking to wrap up an undefeated season with a national championship. Waldrum said he believes Stanford will face some pressure to win a storybook national title, but he doesn’t think it will derail them. 
“Well there’s some pressure with it — I can tell you that from us doing it,” Waldrum said. “You know, every game that you get deeper, whether you consciously think about it or subconsciously think about it, you go, ‘Well there’s only now two games left and if we win it we go undefeat­ed, now there’s only one more game.’ I don’t think the pressure of them carrying that undefeat­ed season is [going to] burden them enough that it’s [going to] cause them to collapse or any­thing.” 
Like Ohio State, Boston College (17-6-1) is also making its first trip to the College Cup. The Eagles were one of the nation’s hottest teams at the beginning of the season, but cooled off towards the end before stepping their game up again in the tournament. 
“I think Boston College has had an exceptional year,” Waldrum said. “They started out really hot — they beat [North] Carolina early in the year, and they tied Stanford early in the year ... they seemed like they’ve turned it back around again late in the year.” 
Notre Dame will begin the final stage of its chase for the program’s third national title Friday against Ohio State at 4 
p.m. at WakeMed Soccer Park in Cary, N.C. The winner of that game will square off with the winner of the Stanford vs. Boston College match at noon Sunday for the national title. The semifinal games will be broadcast on ESPN2 and ESPNU, while Sunday’s match will air on ESPN2. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Quarterfinals loss in conference tournament sparks Irish 
realized what was at stake. 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
“We just looked at each other 
Sports Writer 
and kind of knew,” junior forward Melissa Henderson said. A real eye-opener. A wake-up “Everybody said what they need-call. A reality check. A slap in the ed to say, ‘Hey, we’ve got to pick it face. up. Now it’s not all fun and 
These were just some of the games. It’s serious now. You lose terms the Irish players used to and you’re out.’” describe their shocking 2-0 upset After Notre Dame slept off the by Connecticut in the quarterfi-sting from the loss, the team went nals of the Big East tournament back to business and worked to on Halloween. Coming into the grow from the experience. game at 15-1-2 without a loss to a “I remember we had to go in conference opponent since 2005 the morning after and watch film and without a home loss to a at 5:30 in the morning, and I league foe since 1995, Notre remember going to breakfast Dame took the pitch flat, giving after that with a couple girls on up a pair of second-half goals to the team,” junior defender Molly suffer a shocking exit from the Campbell said. “We were just conference tournament. talking about how either the team 
“It’s one thing if we played well would just implode or we would and lost, but we didn’t even play just kind of really respond. well on that day,” Irish coach Obviously we responded the best Randy Waldrum said. “We were way we could have.” really flat. It was late, [the play-It wasn’t just a change in men­ers] were taking things for grant-tality that sparked the NCAA run, ed — that we were good, and we however. The loss prompted Waldrum said. “She’s been really Waldrum said that the defeat good thing that we lost,” just had to show up.” Waldrum to make a lineup the key — we knew Lauren could forced him to finally make the Henderson said. 
Freshman defender Kecia change that would eventually pay do that because we had her doing change he had been contemplat-Her coach agreed. Morway agreed with her coach. huge dividends. Waldrum moved last year.” ing for some time. “You never want to lose,” 
“We went into that game kind senior Lauren Fowlkes from the Fowlkes’ offensive dynamism “We’d still not lost a game in a Waldrum said. “I would rather of uninterested and unexcited back line to the attack and put translated to the rest of the Notre while so I was a little reluctant to have won, and won the Big East because it was just another Campbell in her place. Waldrum Dame attack, as a formerly strug-make the change,” he said. “I tournament, don’t get me wrong.” game,” she said. “It kind of re-was rewarded with a three-goal, gling offense found its stride in think that loss, as a coach, forced After the first weekend of the motivated us because we realized two-assist effort from Fowlkes on the most crucial games of the me to do what we needed to do to NCAA Tournament, Waldrum that we actually have to work for the opening weekend of the tour-year. make those changes. I don’t know used one more phrase to describe our wins.” nament. “I think it really helped with our that I would have done that had the Connecticut game — this one 
There were no inspiring “The big question was whether offense, obviously,” Henderson we won that game.” more positive than the one his speeches after the loss. There [Campbell] could step in late in said. “Lauren’s really strong and Despite all of the positives that players used. was no emotional tirade. No tears the season with not a lot of prac-a good player to play off of, so it came from the loss, the Irish still “A blessing in disguise,” he were shed. There wasn’t even a tice in that position and show gave us a little diversity up front.” maintain they would have pre-said. players-only meeting to set the some consistency, especially at a Before the loss, the team had ferred to win the game with team straight. Rather, the Irish crucial time with the NCAAs, and been struggling through the latter Connecticut. Contact Allan Joseph forged a steely resolve after they she’s been fantastic there,” stages of its conference slate, and “It’s hard to say that’s it’s a ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Weiss grip 
Stalwart defense quietly drives team to College Cup; late-season switch pays dividends 
sudden improvement. midfield. 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Heading into the postseason, “Moving Molly back wasn’t a 
Sports Writer 
the squad had only allowed 10 real hard thing to do because goals in 18 games, while post-she had three really solid peo-
At a glance, Notre Dame’s ing 10 shutouts. ple around her that could kind convincing victories on the road “I think a lot of it really has to of help put her at ease when we to its College Cup appearance do with keeping the ball away made that change,” Waldrum this weekend can be a bit mis-from us,” Weiss said. “I think said. “She stepped in and has leading. Postseason success our offense does a good job of been fantastic for us in the that included a 4-0 dismantling that. We just work really well back. I can’t say enough.” of Southern California and a 4-together. We always try to stay In addition to being a capable 1 rout of North Carolina on the really close and tight, and move defender, Campbell brings an road will raise questions about around the field so we don’t offensive mentality to a group the team’s ease of schedule. leave a lot of of seasoned 
But in the eyes of Irish coach gaps in defenders. Rather Randy Waldrum, Notre Dame’s between.” “It’s like we don’t than detracting road to the Cup has nothing to Much of that from the back 
even talk anymore, 
do with luck of the draw. coordination line’s unity, 
it’s just kind of a
“Probably what was one of can be attrib-Campbell’s team-the hardest draws we’ve had in uted to taking look. We know each mates said they the four years I’ve been here,” the field each come to appreciate 
other so well that 
Waldrum said. “We’ve played game with the her nuances and 
it just comes.” 
some teams that are real capa-same person-aggressive tenden­ble of scoring a lot of goals on nel. Senior cies. you. The defense has carried us defender and Julie Scheidler “It was obviously and that’s what you need carry-f o u r -y e a r a good decision,” 
Senior defender
ing you at this time of the year.” starter Julie Weiss said. 
Posting three shutouts in its Scheidler said “Molly’s a very four tournament matches, the the back line has developed an solid player. She’s not a natu-Irish defense has stifled high-uncanny chemistry the stems ral-born defender, but some-powered offenses in the friend-from the players’ familiarity times it’s helpful that she has ly confines of Alumni Stadium with each other. that attacking mindset. She’s and before sell-out crowds on “It’s just a different feeling come in and really handled her the road. Well aware of the being friends with someone and job well.” stakes at hand, the backline then playing on the field next to While Campbell’s addition to has risen to the intensity of them — you just know what the defense came towards the each contest. their moves are going to be and end of the season, the Irish 
“Our tournament games have exactly what they’re going to came into the year with a num­really been the best games do,” Scheidler said. “It’s like we ber of talented underclassmen we’ve played all year long,” don’t even have to talk any-with limited or no experience to senior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss more, it’s just kind of a look. the back line vying for a start-said. “Since we We just know ing spot. Freshman Kecia to the table, the seasoned jun-job as the starting net-minder get here in each other so Morway and sophomore Jazmin ior adds direction and compo-during her first two seasons at August for [the] well that it just Hall emerged as the leading sure to the back line and to the Notre Dame, a result of incon­
“The defense has 
preseason, win-comes.” candidates, and the two have squad as a whole, Waldrum sistency and transitioning to 
carried us and that’s 
ning a national So when split time on the pitch all sea-said. collegiate play. championship is what you need Waldrum decid-son. “By leadership for us, it’s not “When you come in to Notre always our goal, ed to move sen-Waldrum credits their energy only on the field,” Waldrum Dame, you’re not sure how 
carrying you at this 
so once it actu-ior Lauren and ability to transition said. “In the last few weeks, high the level actually is,” 
time of the year.” 
ally comes time Fowlkes from smoothly to the collegiate level Jess has been really good, Weiss said. “For me, it just took to make that the back to the for their immediate success. especially since we moved a lot longer to adjust. Once I dream come Randy Waldrum midfield posi-“First I came in obviously Lauren out of kind of relaxed true we get tion following a really nervous because I didn’t the back. and started hav-
Irish coach
really excited.” 2-0 loss in the know the people playing Lauren was “Nikki’s played great ing fun, things But turning quarterfinals of around me,” Morway said. usually the for us all year and starting falling up the intensity the Big East “Throughout the season, with more vocal into place.” 
kept us in a lot of the 
in the postseason takes more championships, that chemistry all of everyone’s support in the player, and Waldrum said than flicking a switch. Notre was put to the test. But back line, I’ve kind of bonded now Jess has games early when we the turning point Dame’s defensive dominance in Fowlkes’ replacement, junior with them and learned how really stepped were trying to find in Weiss’ career the tournament has been an Molly Campbell, has proven to they played. It enabled me to up and organ-came during a
our way with the 
extension of the team’s regular be an excellent fit as she con-adjust to the system and do my ized things on 2-0 shutout over 
back.” 
season success rather than a tinues her transition from the job better.” the field and Florida State in Joining a defense that fea-has really the quarterfinals tures a lone senior and two jun-taken charge of the NCAA 
Randy Waldrum 
iors, Morway and Hall have on the field Championships 
Irish coach
made their contributions felt with her lead-last season. while still learning the ropes ership.” Weiss made five from an experienced line. The Quick to deflect praise, saves and grabbed a number of two have not only complement-Schuveiller said the team’s suc-crosses, leading the Irish in a ed each other well, but have cess can be attributed in large victory that sent them to the added youth to the dynamic part to Weiss, who has been a College Cup. group. mainstay in the Irish goal all “Last year when she stepped 
“Kecia and Jazz are doing season. in, she did a great job,” really well for us,” Weiss said. “[Nikki] is amazing,” Waldrum said. “She played “They’re very interchangeable, Schuveiller said. “Playing in great for us in the Final Four which is good. They both have front of her is really easy [in 2009]. Nikki’s played great different because she is for us all year and kept us in a strengths, which so confident. lot of the games early when we is really benefi-“I’ve kind of bonded She does a were trying to find our way cial against dif-great job com-with the back.” 
with them and 
ferent teams. municating and As the Irish travel to Cary, 
learned how they 
The combina-it helps out a N.C., to take on third-seeded tion of the played. It enabled me lot. It really Ohio State Friday in the semifi­upperclassmen to adjust to the sys-helps that nals of the College Cup, Weiss with the under-we’re all and the back line bolster a
tem and do my job 
classmen is friends on and Notre Dame squad that has really cohesive.” better” off the field, so been lifted by its defense all But talent and the chemistry is season. chemistry can there.” “We know we’re not going to 
Kecia Morway 
only take a team With the Big be the ones up on the score-
Freshman defender 
so far. East’s lowest board getting the goals or any-Regardless of a goals against thing,” Scheidler said, “but team’s experience level, leader-average (.53) and highest save when you get a good hard tack-ship and passion are an essen-percentage (.867) during the le in or you really get some­tial part of the championship regular season, Weiss has thing good, it sets the tone for equation. enjoyed tremendous success the game. You can see it boosts 
The defensive unit has both during her final season in an the whole rest of the team.” traits in second-year captain Irish uniform. But it wasn’t Jessica Schuveiller. More so always that way. Contact Chris Masoud at than the raw talent she brings Weiss struggled to earn the cmasoud@nd.edu 


Friday, December 3, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 4 

Predicting the College Cup 

Mike Gotimer 
Sports Writer 
In a year where the NCAA Tournament has been filled with upsets, Notre Dame has remained the only constant, as the Irish head to the College Cup for the fifth straight season. With two teams making their first appearance in the Final Four and another seeking per­fection, Notre Dame finds itself in an ideal situation with the fewest dis­tractions of the four remaining teams. While the Irish have dominat­ed on both ends of the field through­out the tournament, their experience will reign supreme in this year’s College Cup. 
FINAL RESULT: Notre Dame 1, Stanford 0 Irish win national championship 

Allan Joseph 
Sports Writer 
It’s an interesting foursome in the College Cup. With traditional powers Notre Dame and Stanford matching up against Final Four newcomers Boston College and Ohio State, there’s a unique dynamic awaiting in North Carolina. The Cardinal and Irish absolutely domi­nated their regions, while the Eagles and Buckeyes struggled somewhat. I fully expect comfortable semifinal wins to set up a marquee Stanford-Notre Dame national championship. Both of those teams are loaded with talent, and while it’ll be about as nerve-wracking a final as possible, the experienced, even-keeled and tested Irish will prevail. 
FINAL RESULT: Notre Dame 3, Stanford 2 (OT) Irish win national championship 

Chris Masoud 
Sports Writer 
I’m not quite sure how the Buckeyes made it this far with four losses to their name, but I’ll take it. Notre Dame should blow past Ohio State by a wide margin to make it back to the title game. Although the Irish defense no longer features All-American Carrie Dew, it has lifted this team to the College Cup unlike previous years. That should be the difference that pushes this team to a national title. But Stanford will be Notre Dame’s toughest opponent yet, and even if Melissa Henderson plays like Melissa Henderson (which I think she will), the Irish may not get much. 
FINAL RESULT: Notre Dame 0, Stanford 0 (5-4 PKs) Irish win national championship 




