the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Class of 2010 facing hard decisions 
Worsening economy creates a challenge for post-graduates entering the job market, increase in graduate school applications 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
In light of the struggling econo­my, seniors are facing choices for their future as graduation nears. 
Kevin Monahan, associate director of the Career Center, said the job market is improving. 
“A number of students and employers have reported job acceptances for the class of 2010. The job market continues to be challenging, but not impos­sible,” Monahan said. 
Monahan said job opportuni­ties are still available. 
“We currently are running a virtual fair through the Go IRISH system and there are close to 200 jobs and internships associ­ated with the fair,” Monahan said. “There are museum, film, finance, marketing, nonprofit, engineering and government jobs and internships associated with the fair.” 
When it comes to choosing graduate school or the work­force, Monahan said future career goals should be the driv­ing force behind a student’s deci­sion. 
“The Career Center would encourage any senior who is still in the midst of a career search to schedule an appointment to 
see TRENDS/page 8 




SUBplanningSpringConcert 
Group to announce performer when contract is signed 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
This time last year, the annual concert planned by the Student Union Board (SUB) had come and gone, and the student body had enjoyed a fall performance by Cartel and Citizen Cope in the Stepan Center. This year, the performers have not yet been announced to the student body. 
Sophomore Julie Sutton will become the executive board manager for SUB on April 1, tak­ing over for current board man­ager Kat Burke. Sutton said planning the concert involves planning around events happen­ing at Notre Dame and around the schedules of the performers, 
— a challenging task. 
see SUB/page 8 




Men of Strength unite masculinity, faith 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
With membership capped at a comfortable eight stu­dents, the Men of Strength faith group is exactly where it wants to be. 
Initiated two years ago by then-Masters of Divinity stu­dent and Gender Relations Center (GRC) intern Brian Vassel, Men of Strength aims to connect sexuality with the faith lives of college men. 
Concerned for the future of the group, Vassel handed leadership over to second-year Masters of Divinity stu­dent Tom Robertson when he finished his own course of study. 
“As he was leaving he thought the program would die out if he just left … so he asked me to sit in on a cou­ple of sessions at the end of the year and asked me if I was interested in taking over,” Robertson said. 
The group, which meets on a weekly basis, focuses on issues facing college men, from pornography to rela­tionships, and relates them back to their spirituality. 
“Integration is a big thing here,” Robertson said. “We look at integrating faith in all areas of life and specifically with sexuality.” 
Robertson said he does not conduct the group’s meetings with a set lesson plan or theme. 
see STRENGTH/page 9 



Double Domers can’t get enough of ND 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Ask most Notre Dame stu­dents on campus how much they enjoy attending the University and chances are their only complaint will be about the weather. 
Some students, in fact, love the University so much that they choose to spend more than four years on campus. 
Commonly referred to as “Double Domers,” a number of students opt to continue their education at Notre Dame after graduation and pursue gradu­

ate  degrees  from  the  
University.  
“When  reflecting  on the  

qualities I desired most in a law school, I needed to look no further than what I experi­enced here as an undergradu­ate,” senior American Studies major Colleen Walter said. 
see DOUBLES/page 8 




‘FairyTalesTunes’hitthestage 

By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
With different fairy tale-related musical pieces and appropriate costuming, sev­eral Saint Mary’s music majors will present the “Fairy Tale Tunes,” a show designed with kids in mind but enjoyable for all, Laurel Thomas, associate professor of music at the College, said. 
“It’s really a musical review, which means that there are individual pieces 
see TUNES/page 9 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ND to hold Peace Conference page 3  Women’s basketball Sweet 16 preview page 28  ‘New Moon’ DVD release page 14  Viewpoint page 12 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, March 26, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Wanted: Quirky 

Have you been described as a “unique” personality, or someone who is “unforgettable?” Okay, let’s not mince words, people tend to think you’re somewhat crazy, but I they are quick to say that you are in a “good” way of course. 
If you are reading this and this has happened to you, congratulations! You are a part of the exclusive club of Quirky Individuals, of which I am a Molly Madden proud member, pos-

News
sibly even the 

Production
leader. You’re one of the people who Editor has been called many things in your life but the word “ordinary” is never mentioned. 
One of my friends always describes me as being an “individual.” But does being an individual mean that you’re different? Why should we all want to be the same anyway? There are plenty of people that I know here on campus that I don’t even want to sit by, let alone imi­tate. 
Sometimes we all get lost in the image that we feel we need to project. After all, we are in college and think that cer­tain people should perceive us in a spe­cific way. Let me speak from experience 
— just because you stop your horren­dous swearing or cut back on the num­ber of times you randomly burst into song will not make anyone like you any more than they already do. 
I personally feel that everyone has at least one distinct quality that sets them apart, their own personal quirk. The problem is, quirks are more often seen as a freak flag and many people are embarrassed to fly theirs high for the world to see. I’m here to tell you, the sooner you embrace your own brand of dorkiness the happier you’ll be. Your friends will love you even more because you aren’t afraid to admit that you, say for example, know the Hindi lyrics to “Jai Ho.” 
If you have a quirk, show it and proudly! I implore all of you to let your quirks be known in all their glory. It won’t be as bad as you think; in fact, some might even find you more endear­ing for it. 
Let me give you a briefing of some of my quirks. I talk far too much and too loudly, I sometimes make pop culture references that are so random even the Gilmore girls would be scratching their heads, I have a weird obsession with the song “White Houses,” I frequently broadcast that the only good thing about “Twilight” is the hot and sexy minor, I tend to say things that would make Michael Scott squirm and some­times I adopt an accent of questionable descent when unknown numbers call my phone. 
Sometimes in this environment, it’s hard to reveal the true you. Don’t be afraid to be an individual. Remember, being different doesn’t make you an individual; being an individual means doing things that others are embar­rassed to do. Go ahead and take the plunge; bust out the YMCA at the next party like you’ve been dying to do. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR DREAM JOB? 






Megan Smith  Eric Herbert  Brian Bartish  Eileen Lynch  Sam Wilhite  
junior  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Cavanaugh  Dillon  Keough  Ryan  Morrissey  
“Something  “To be the head  “Disney  “Writing for a  “Being a  
abroad,  of Charlie and  Imagineer.”  foreign  famous movie  
speaking  the Chocolate  country.”  director.”  
French.”  Factory.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

EILEEN VEIHYMEYER/The Observer Notre Dame Texas Club members, from left to right, Kelsey McGuire, Sofia Girod, Kristen Stoutenburgh and Nick Dyslin sell t-shirts in LaFortune Student Center Thursday to raise money for their spring BBQ. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman allegedly tosses baby into SUV to block repo 
DALLAS — A woman is accused of throwing her year-old son into her SUV in a failed attempt to stop the vehicle from being repossessed in Dallas. Krystal Gardner of Tool was jailed Wednesday on bail of nearly $3,800 on charges including child endangerment related to abandonment, no driver's license and no insurance. Electronic records at the Lew Sterrett Justice Center did not list an attorney for the 28-year-old mother, who was booked Monday. 
Recovery agent Luke Ross told KTVT-TV that he was in the Ford Expedition when he saw Gardner toss the baby through an open window. He said the baby landed on the seat “like a kid bouncing on a bed.” 
Texas law bans a vehicle from being repossessed if a person is inside. 
Police were called. The uninjured baby was removed, for placement with his father. Ross then repossessed the SUV. 
Bill would lessen the teen ‘sexting’ charge 
BOSTON — Connecticut lawmakers are considering a way to keep young people off the state’s sex offender registry if convicted of “sexting.” 
Sexting — a contraction of “sex” and “texting” is the act of sending sexually explicit messages or photo­graphs electronically, often between mobile phones. 
Under existing law in Connecticut, sending or receiving messages that include nude or sexual images falls under the state’s child pornography statutes. Those convicted are put on a state sex-offender registry. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight SATURDAY SUNDAY 

IN BRIEF 
The Classics Department presents A Night of Greek and Roman Comedy tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to all. 
A concert featuring the Notre Dame Handbell Choir will take place tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. The event is free but an offering will be taken to support the Holy Cross Missions in Haiti. Call 631-9326 for more infor­mation. 
The International Children’s Festival and Cultural Displays will take place Saturday from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the University Village Community Center. The event is part of International Festival Week. 
The Hawaii Club will be pre­senting a Hawaiian Luau Saturday night at 6 p.m. at the Stepan Center. Tickets are $10 in advance for stu­dents and $15 for non-stu­dents or $12 at the door for students and $18 for non-stu­dents. Tickets can be pur­chased at the LaFortune Box Office or by calling 574-631­8128. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council will present a fashion show entitled “The Time Warp” Saturday night at 7 
p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets are $11 for students and $13 for general admis­sion. Tickets can be purchased by calling 574-631-8128. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


Atlanta 60 / 42 Boston 39 / 22 Chicago 46 / 33 Denver 51 / 32 Houston 72 / 52 Los Angeles 71 / 51 Minneapolis 56 / 39 New York 43 / 29 Philadelphia 47 / 29 Phoenix 75 / 54 Seattle 54 / 41 St. Louis 54 / 35 Tampa 71 / 53 Washington 50 / 35 
Friday, March 26, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC partners with ND for dance marathon 
By MEGHAN MANNING 
News Writer 
For four years, students have been flocking to Saint Mary’s campus decked out in their best dancing shoes and ready for a 12-hour marathon of movement to benefit the Riley’s Children’s Hospital. 
For the first time, the Saint Mary’s team is collaborating with Notre Dame’s Pre-Professional Society to host the marathon. 
“Last year’s event raised just under $100,000 for Riley with four hundred students,” Pre-Professional Society Riley chair person Nikki Sullivan said. 
She has partnered with Kelly Deranek, Saint Mary’s senior and president of Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon, to plan the event. 
“This year, we hope to exceed that with more contributions from Notre Dame students,” Sullivan said. 
The partnership with a club on Notre Dame’s campus has been made to increase awareness about the event in the hopes that it will generate more contribu­tions for the hospital. 

“We are really excited that this year Notre Dame will get to be involved and be able to continue to support the children of Indiana through a lasting rela­tionship with Saint Mary’s and Dance Marathon,” Caitlin Aguiar, vice president of Public Relations and Marketing for the Pre-Professional Committee, said. 
Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon was named Best New Marathon at the Children’s Miracle Network Dance Marathon Leadership Conference 2006. 
The first Children’s Miracle Network Dance Marathon’s Mission statement sums it up: “We dance for those who can’t.” 
Tonight’s participants will be dancing for the patient’s of Riley’s Children’s Hospital in Indiana. As the state’s only com­prehensive children’s hospital, Riley’s treats over 200,000 fami­lies each year. 
Riley’s will treat any child, regardless of their ability to pay. 
The event, which is Hollywood themed this year, is much more than dancing, as it also includes live entertainment, a DJ, video games, a moon bounce, inflat­able twisters and prizes. 
“Riley families also come out to support,” Aguiar said. “So it gives students a great opportuni­ty to meet them.” 
The Dance Marathon begins at 8 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility on Saint Mary’s Campus. Registration can be completed online at www.nd.edu/~medinfo or at 7 p.m. at the door. 
Contact Meghan Manning at mmannin3@nd.edu 
Peace conference to kick off 
Annual event draws hundreds from across the country 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Nearly 300 students from across the world will meet on campus this weekend to discuss practical methods of peace building at the 18th annual Student Peace Conference, sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
“It’s really about putting a tangible grasp on what it means to be a peacebuilder and promote peace world­wide,” Alex Hellmuth, senior and Conference co -chair, said. “We want to show how it’s possible to work for peace in all different areas.” 
This year’s Conference — to be held in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies — is titled, “Invest in Peace: Uncovering the Practicality of Peacebuilding.” 
“Our goal was to develop a theme that was more inclu­sive,” Hellmuth said. “Ultimately, we are trying to reach out to more people and make the conference more interdisciplinary.” 
She said “Invest in Peace” focuses on making practical solutions and demonstrating what works in policy imple­mentation and development. 
The student-run confer­ence kicks off Friday evening with keynote speaker John Prendergast, founder of the Enough Project, which works to end genocide and crimes against humanity. 
“We’re really excited that he was able to come,” said Kelsey Scribner, co -chair along with Hellmuth. “He has a lot of experience with peacebuilding in Africa and was even an advisor for the Clinton administration.” 



Scribner said Prendergast will discuss his experience in Africa and the role of con­flict minerals in the Congo in his address. 
“He is a very engaging and interactive speaker, so it will definitely be interesting,” she said. 
Both Peace Studies majors, Hellmuth and Scribner said the Conference is important for the University to host because it encourages stu­dents to engage in social jus­tice and highlights elements of Catholic Social Teaching. 
“When you go to Notre Dame, it isn’t just about the classes you take or the books you have to read, it’s also about what you choose to do with your education,” Scribner said. “And I believe this conference really gets students to think about that.” 
The Conference will also feature several panels, including one on careers in peace building and an infor­mation fair to show how stu­dents can get involved with various peace efforts around the world. 
Although meal registration closed on March 23, anyone interested in attending any 
of the other conference events is still able to do so. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 26, 2010 
Studentstogivebacktocounty 
Rebuilding Together effort to revitalize local community 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Hundreds of Notre Dame students will put on their work clothes to paint and landscape local homes in April. 
The annual effort is part of Rebuilding Together — a non-profit partnership of vol­unteers from local business­es, government and other non-profits organizations. The project, which will take place April 17, will revitalize homes and neighborhoods across the county, the orga­nization’s Web site said. 

According to Darrell Paulsen, Campus Ministry assistant director of retreats and national programs, Rebuilding Together needs about 500 students to refur-repairs at no cost to the homeowners. bish 25 homes in the homeowner. “At the end of the day, I Marquette Park area of According to Paulsen’s esti-saw a retired gentleman, South Bend. mates, homes previously val-must have been in his 70’s, 
Paulsen said the need fluc-ued at $30,000 are now out watering his flowers that tuates depending on involve-w o r t h just got planted ment from Saint Mary’s, Holy $ 9 0 , 0 0 0 on a cold, Cross and Indiana following sunny after ­
“The pride that they can 
University-South Bend cam-i m p r o v e -noon,” Paulsen puses. This year will see ments by take in their homes said. “The greater participation from Rebuilding after this is an amazing pride that they Notre Dame’s athletic teams, Together. can take in 
transformation to
including men’s and women’s Through their homes fencing, swimming and div-donations, watch.” after this is an ing, cheerleading and men’s the project amazing trans-golf. collects the formation to 
Darrell Paulsen 
For Paulsen, students enjoy n e c e s s a r y watch.” 
assistant director of
interactions with homeown-construc -Rebuilding 
retreats and national
ers during the one-day event. tion tools T o g e t h e r 
“Students who have done and stores programs selects an area this in the past love having them in a Campus Ministry to offer its conversations with the home-warehouse a s s i s t a n c e owners and seeing the great provided by based on humility of having someone the City of South Bend. Notre income levels, ages within come into your home and Dame Catering will also be the population and other work on it and also the great offering food for volunteers available data. joy that it gives them at the throughout the day. Students can sign up for end of the day,” Paulsen “All students need to do is the event via Campus said. show up wearing work Ministry’s Web site. The 
The week before students clothes and dress for the event will last from 7 a.m. and non-skilled volunteers weather and everything else until 4 p.m. participate in the project, is provided,” Paulsen said. carpenters, plumbers and Paulsen also recognized Contact Katlyn Smith at other skilled laborers make positive responses from ksmith33@nd.edu 

Saint Mary’s to hold walk for hungry 
the Easter season, and provides 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
support for a local food pantry — 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Little Flower Food Pantry — that 
is always in need,” Critchlow 
Saint Mary’s students, faculty said. and staff and the South Bend Critchlow said events like community will come together these help to bring the commu-Sunday to walk for the hungry nity and the College closer during the Yes We Can! Walk together. 2010. “Events that involve and bene-
It will be held at 2 p.m. fit the South Bend community Sunday, and are great will start at ways to keep 
Saint Mary’s “Events that involve and the College Student beneft the South Bend in touch with Center, head the commu­
community are great
to the Grotto nity’s needs 
at Notre Dame ways to keep the College and are and then end in touch with the excellent back at the opportunities 
community’s needs and 
Student for our stu-
Center. It will are excellent opportuni-dents to 
happen, “rain ties for our students to stand in soli­or shine,” and darity with 
stand in solidarity with
“children and the poor,” 
the poor.” 
dogs — on Critchlow leashes — are said. welcome, ” Olivia Critchlow Even said Olivia though last 
assistant director
Critchlow, year’s event 
Offce of Civic and Social
assistant happened to director of the Engagement fall on a Office of Civic rainy day, 75 and Social walkers par-Engagement (OCSE) and coordi-ticipated, Critchlow said. nator of the event. “I am hoping that we are able 
The walk will benefit the Little to at reach the same attendance Flower Catholic Church Food this year, if not exceed that num-Pantry. ber,” Critchlow said. 
The walk was first held last According to Critchlow, the year, and began when the walk is open anyone and people College Academy of Tutoring are encouraged to join. Those (CAT) scholars decided to organ-interested can register online at ize an event for the spring that http://www3.saintmarys.edu/ocs would help connect the College e/calendar/walk-for-hungry­with the greater community, form. There will also be a booth Critchlow said. CAT is an organi-in the Student Center Atrium zation of students from the today and tomorrow during College that began in 2006 to lunch and dinner hours. help tutor elementary-age chil-Cost to participate is three dren in need at local elementary cans of food or a $2 donation per schools. person or $5 or three cans/per-
This event is another way to son if you bring a team, Carrie CAT is working to bridge the gap Call, director of OCSE said in an between Saint Mary’s and the e-mail to the student body. community. 
“It is a great way to bring food Contact Ashley Charnley at insecurity to the forefront during acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

International scholarship thrives in London Program 
Notre Dame’s London Centre launches seminar series on global history to develop into a ‘global presence’ 
Special to The Observer 
The London Centre, the majestic Edwardian building at Trafalgar Square that houses Notre Dame’s London Program, has become a hub of international scholarship. 
A broad and growing net­work of collaborations among faculty, institutes and other universities now uses the center for international conferences and other events, while the center also enriches the experience of Notre Dame undergraduates studying abroad. 
“In our new global era, first-rate universities must develop and establish a vibrant global presence, ” said Greg Kucich, who became director of the London undergraduate pro­gram nearly two years ago. “Notre Dame’s goal to rank among elite universities as a premier Catholic research and teaching institution involves positioning itself as a distinguished global uni­versity. The London Program plays a leading role in this mission as an outstanding center that promotes Notre Dame’s international pres­tige, particularly through its rapidly developing scholarly dimension.” 
This year, the center is launching a seminar series on global history in collabo­ration with the University of London’s renowned Institute for Historical Research, planning the first of three conferences sponsored by the Medieval Institute, and co-sponsoring a conference with the University of Cambridge, the University of Paris -Diderot and Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre 
on “Shakespeare and the Middle Ages.” That confer­ence in late June — one day at the center, one at the Globe — brings scholars together to hear papers across the fields of Shakespeare and medieval studies, Peter Holland, McMeel Family Professor in Shakespeare Studies in the Department of Film, Television and Theatre, said. 
Other events this year include the first annual lec­ture co -sponsored with Chawton House Library of British Women Writers with Anne Mellor speaking on “The Female Elegy,” a con­ference organized by Notre Dame faculty on “Renaissance Visions of Christian Origins ” and a conference co -sponsored with Edinburgh University Press on Virginia Woolf. Next year ’s schedule includes a conference co ­sponsored with Birbeck College, University of London, on “Religious Martyrdom and Terrorism” and a conference organized by Notre Dame faculty on “Religion and Literature.” 
Along with regular poetry readings, concerts and book launches, the center has also in the last two years hosted a conference on “European Identities” spon­sored by the Nanovic Institute, co-hosted a con­ference with the London ­based University of the Arts on artist Meredith Monk, co­sponsored a seminar with St. John ’s University on English poetry, and hosted a conference, organized by Notre Dame faculty member Dennis Doordan and linked with the Victoria & Albert Museum, on British archi­tect Eric Gill. 
Kucich also launched a new symposium last year, titled the University of Notre Dame London Symposium, that brings together Notre Dame faculty with European scholars. The last two sym­posia have focused on “Cosmopolitanism and Religious Diversity ” and “Irish London: Print, Politics and Performance in the Long Nineteenth Century.” A Notre Dame alumni-student lecture series has featured James Turk on “Gold and the Collapse of the Dollar” and Stryker McGuire on “The Crisis in International Journalism.” 
Each event, Kucich said, draws another wave of interest from scholars inter­ested in collaborating with Notre Dame, as European universities push to strengthen their internation­al connections. Kucich also is working to raise the pro­file on the Notre Dame cam­pus for the scholarly side of the London Program, which has been known for decades as a premier study-abroad program for undergradu ­ates. 
“The significant overall benefit of these combined priorities,” he said, “is to give Notre Dame — on undergraduate, graduate and faculty levels — a markedly heightened stand­ing in the world of interna­tional academic life.” 

World & Nation 
Friday, March 26, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Chinese ban poet from U.S. travel 
BEIJING — A pixie-ish literature professor is the latest person to run afoul of China’s govern­ment, denied permission to travel to a promi­nent academic conference in the United States this week. 
Cui Weiping had her Chinese passport, U.S. visa and airplane ticket to Philadelphia in hand when, she said, officials at the Beijing Film Academy where she works called her in Sunday and told her to cancel the trip. Though they gave reasons for the denial — she has classes to teach, her conference panel was not related to her academic discipline — those were excuses, she said. 
The unstated reason, she said: last year’s com­memoration of the 1989 Tiananmen democracy movement and her recent outraged Twitter posts at the jailing of a peaceful political activist. 
Moscow plans posters honoring Stalin 
MOSCOW — Posters of Josef Stalin may be put up in Moscow for the first time in decades as part of the May 9 observance of Victory Day 
— the annual celebration of the defeat of Nazi Germany. 
This year, the 65th anniversary of Germany’s defeat, a contingent of U.S. troops is expected to march on Red Square, a striking sign of vaunted “reset” of American-Russian relations. 
But Moscow city authorities may be prepar­ing a less-welcome kind of reset with the posters, an honor denied since the Soviet dicta­tor’s crimes were publicly exposed more than half-a-century ago. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Breast feeding differs by race and place 
ATLANTA — A new study confirms that Hispanic women generally breast-feed more than white and black women do. But it finds surprising regional differences in U.S. breast-feeding rates. 
The state-by-state analysis of racial and ethnic differences found that in the East, Hispanics breast-feed more than other women. In some Western states, white women had higher rates, according to the report released Thursday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
“There seemed to be an East-West break­down,” said the CDC’s Cria Perrine, one of the authors of the study. 
The reason for the continental divide is not clear. One leading theory has to do with adapting to a new culture. 
‘Sex-for-tickets’ woman receives verdict 
DOYLESTOWN, Pa. — A Philadelphia woman accused of offering sexual favors for World Series tickets has been found not guilty of prostitution, but guilty of attempted prostitution. 
Forty-four-year-old Susan Finkelstein took the stand Thursday during her trial in Bucks County Court. She said she placed an ad with sexual overtones, but that she’s not a prosti­tute. 
Authorities allege Finkelstein met with an undercover Bensalem police officer in October and offered to perform sexual acts in exchange for tickets to the World Series between the Phillies and New York Yankees. 
Finkelstein says she placed a “goofy” ad on Craigslist and she did hope to use her “femi­nine wiles” to get tickets. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man dies in farming accident 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. — St. Joseph County police say a 72-year-old farmer died when a grain truck rolled onto its side and trapped him underneath. 
Police spokesman Sgt. Bill Redman says the name of the victim of Thursday’s accident about 12 miles southwest of South Bend is being with­held until relatives have been notified. 
Redman says the farmer and another man were emptying soybeans from a grain trailer. He says that when the grain began to shift and the truck started to overturn, the man ran toward the truck apparently intending to lower the trail­er. But the truck rolled onto its side, trapping the man beneath the cab. 
ChurchabusescandalizesWisconsin 
U.S. priest accused of molesting 200 deaf boys; Church shown to ignore earlier reports 
Associated Press 

DST. FRANCIS, Wisconsin 
— Arthur Budzinski says the first time the priest molested him, he was 12 years old, alone and away from home at a school for the deaf. He says he asked the Rev. Lawrence Murphy to hear his confession, and instead the priest took him into a closet under the stairs and sexually assaulted him. 
Budzinski, now 61, was one of about 200 deaf boys at the St. John’s School for the Deaf just outside Milwaukee who say they were molested by the priest decades ago in a case now creating a scandal for the Vatican and threatening to ensnare Pope Benedict XVI. 
Some of the allegations became public years ago. But they got renewed atten­tion this week after docu­ments obtained by The New York Times showed that Murphy was spared a defrocking in the mid-1990s because he was protected by the Vatican office led by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, now the pope. 
The Vatican on Thursday strongly defended its deci­sion not to defrock Murphy and denounced what it called a campaign to smear the pope and his aides. 
In recent weeks, Benedict said Thursday during an large open room in bunk center in the 1970s. has also come under fire interview in which his beds,” Budzinski’s daughter Donald Marshall, now 45, over his handling of an daughter interpreted his said. “My father saw other said Murphy visited him sev­abuse case against a priest sign language. boys being molested, too. eral times a week at the in Germany three decades He said he avoided They’d never talk about it.” detention center where he ago when he was a cardinal Murphy as much as he could Church and Vatican docu-was sent at age 13 for bur-in charge of the Munich afterward, but when he ments showed that in the glary. Murphy seemed nice Archdiocese. went to Murphy’s office the mid-1990s, two Wisconsin when others were around, 
In the Milwaukee-area following year to make bishops urged the Vatican Marshall said. But Marshall case, Murphy was accused another confession the priest office led by Ratzinger to let said he was later isolated in of molesting boys in the con-led him to an adjoining room them hold a church trial a cell after a fight — and the fessional, in dormitories, in and sexually assaulted him against Murphy. priest paid him a visit there. closets and during field trips again. However, Ratzinger’s “He was sitting on my bed, while working at the school “It seemed like my father deputy at the time decided reading the Bible to me, and for the deaf from the 1950s would be walking into a trap the alleged molestation he put his hand on my through 1974. Murphy died every time,” said Budzinski’s occurred too long ago and knee,” Marshall said. “He in 1998 at age 72. 26-year-old daughter, Gigi said Murphy — then ailing leaned over and started kiss-
Budzinski, now a bicycle Budzinski. and elderly — should ing me. That’s when he tried and furniture assembler at a He said Murphy assaulted instead repent and be to put his hand down my department store, said him a third time the next restricted from celebrating pants.” Murphy preyed on him dur-year in Budzinski’s bed in Mass outside of his diocese, The Associated Press does ing the 1960s. The priest his dormitory room. Other according to the documents. not normally identify victims was fluent in sign language boys were similarly assault-Murphy’s alleged victims of sex crimes but Budzinski and often told the boys they ed, he said. also included at least one and Marshall allowed their were handsome, Budzinski “They would sleep in a teen in a juvenile detention names to be used. 

MEXICO 

Police arrest ‘King of Heroin’ Medina 
kilograms) of heroin each month across ernment estimates in a report by the
Associated Press 
the Mexican border in Tijuana for La National Drug Intelligence Center. 

MEXICO CITY — Federal police have Familia drug cartel, Pequeno said. Border Patrol agents seized 4.8 mil-arrested Mexico’s “King of Heroin,” a The White House National Drug lion pounds of narcotics at border powerful drug trafficker allegedly Threat Assessment says that while crossings last year, and heroin seizures responsible for running thousands of heroin use is stable or decreasing in saw the most significant increase dur­pounds of heroin into Southern the U.S., the source of the drug has ing that time, with a 316 percent jump California each year, authorities said shifted in recent years from Colombia over 2008. Thursday. — where production and purity are Mexico and the U.S. are working 
Jose Antonio Medina, nicknamed declining — to Mexico, where powerful together to counter a handful of “Don Pepe,” was arrested in the west-drug cartels are gaining a foothold in increasingly violent drug cartels that ern state of Michoacan on Wednesday the lucrative market. supply most of the illicit drugs sold in and is being held for prosecution, said Heroin production in Mexico rose the U.S. each year. The arrest came the Ramon Pequeno, head of the anti-nar-from 17 pure metric tons in 2007 to 38 day after top U.S. Cabinet officials, led cotics division of Mexico’s federal tons in 2008, with the increase trans-by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham police. lating to lower heroin prices and more Clinton, visited Mexico to underscore 
Medina, 36, ran a complex smuggling heroin-related overdoses and more their shared responsibility for the operation that hauled 440 pounds (200 overdose deaths, according to U.S. gov-country’s drug-related violence. 
page 6 The Observer  NEWS Friday, March 26, 2010 
Students to present history projects at SMC 
By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s History Department is sponsoring a National History Day event tomorrow for fourth-to 12th­grade students on campus. 
“[National History Day] is a good way to engage younger students and get them into his­tory,” said Kelly Hamilton, pro­fessor and chair of the Saint Mary’s History Department. 
There will be a history fair students gain a deeper under­standing and an enthusiasm for history.” 
“The more these students are taught that history is important to understand, the better. I’m hoping that a real love for history will be one of the real benefits of participat­ing in this competition,” she said. 
Judges include members of the History Department, spon­sors of National History Day and two Saint Mary’s history 
and education 
students. 

held in Spes “This is a
“The nicest thing is our 
Unica for the really good schools in the students are really opportunity South Bend impressed by the level for our stu­area that par-dents as 
of work they see by
ticipate in well,” 
younger students.” 
National Hamilton History Day. said. “The 
Students will Kelly Hamilton nicest thing is exhibit their our students 
chair
history knowl-are really 
History Department 
edge with impressed by 
poster board projects, research papers, skits and even student-designed Web sites. 
The competition will take place from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. An award presentation will follow in Carroll Auditorium where the winners will be announced. 
Winners from each age group will advance to the state competition, Hamilton said. If those students succeed at the state level, they will compete at the national level with stu­dents around the country. 
This year’s theme is “Innovation in History.” Students will be divided based on grade level, and judged on their depth of research and their presentation. 
Hamilton said she hopes “the the level of 
work they see by younger students.” 
Hamilton said National History Day could lead to internships for Saint Mary’s students to help develop histo­ry programs at local schools. 
The program has been held at Saint Mary’s for the past three years and it’s expected to be held at the College in the future. 
“We are very proud of host­ing [the event],” Hamilton said. “It’s very nice to see younger students interested in history and doing such nice projects. That is what we hoped to accomplish, and it’s really rewarding.” 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 

Chinese national faces charges for pills 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU — A Chinese national arrested in Honolulu faces charges that he manu­factured and imported coun­terfeit weight-loss medication with ingredients that could cause headaches, anxiety and chills, federal authorities said Thursday. 
Federal prosecutors say 30­year-old Sengyang Zhou of Kunming traveled from China to Hawaii intending to meet with people interested in dis­tributing his pills in the U.S., including knockoffs of Alli, an over-the-counter weight-loss drug. 
Authorities say the arrest came Tuesday, the same day that an alleged accomplice, 60-year-old Qung Ming Hu, was arrested in Plano, Texas. 
The two have been charged with a number of crimes, including the introduction and delivery into interstate commerce of unapproved new drugs. 
Zhou is being held without bond and is being transferred to Denver face the charges in the District of Colorado. Hu was released on bond, agree­ing to appear April 7 in Denver to face the charges against her. 
Prosecutors said Zhou told undercover investigators he manufactured diet pills, including Alli. U.S. District Attorney’s spokesman Jeff Dorschner said one man who had been taking the authentic version of Alli switched to a cheaper version sold online by Zhou and began to have heart palpitations, numbness in his left arm, severe anxiety, headaches and profuse sweat­ing and chills. The man thought he was having a heart attack and feared for his life. 
Dorschner said investigators believe other people became ill but they don't know how many. 
“If people feel, or the have reason to believe that they are taking this counterfeit diet pill and that it’s made them ill, I’d encourage them to contact the FDA,” Dorschner said. 
Oxfam pres. to speak at ND 
Raymond Offenheiser Jr. to discuss nonprofit careers 
Special to The Observer 
Raymond Offenheiser Jr. travels through disaster zones about as routinely as most of us drive to work. 
From Africa to Afghanistan, New Orleans to most recently Haiti, Offenheiser has walked through cities and villages devastated by wars, famine and natural disasters. He has seen human suffering on a grand scale, and the heartening — and heart ­breaking — efforts as peo­ple struggle to put the pieces of a life back togeth­er again. 
Offenheiser is the presi­dent of Oxfam America, the international relief and development agency that helps communities rebuild after a disaster. He will be speaking at the University March 30 at 6:30 p.m. in the Geddes Hall Andrews Auditorium. 
His talk is part of the eighth annual “Making a Living Making a Difference” program, which aims to inform students and others from the com­munity about employ ­ment opportunities in the public and nonprofit sec­tors. 
Offenheiser has worked his entire career in the nonprofit sector and is a recognized leader on issues such as poverty alleviation, human rights, foreign assistance and international develop ­ment. 
“However, not only can he speak from his career experiences about making a difference in our world, but also from his own transforming life experi ­ences,” said Denise Wright, program coordinator for the Kellogg Institute for International Studies at Notre Dame. 
Offenheiser’s talk will be followed by a fireside chat at 7:30 p.m. in the Geddes Hall McNeill Library. There also will be an information fair at the same time in the Geddes Hall Coffee House with several nonprofit organizations on hand to talk with attendees about internship and job opportu­nities. They include AmeriCorps, the American Red Cross, Catholic Relief Services, the Casa Maria Catholic Worker House, Feed the Children, the Environmental Protection Agency District 5 Office of Regional Counsel, Hospice/Uganda and Inspire, an on-campus not-for-profit club. 
The events are free and open to the public. 
A 1971 Notre Dame grad­uate, Offenheiser has led the U.S. affiliate of Oxfam International since 1995. During his tenure, the 
organization has grown more than fourfold and has positioned itself as a leader on international develop­ment and global trade. He recently visited Haiti, one month after the devastating 
7.0 earthquake that killed an estimated 230,000 peo­ple and left more than a million homeless. 
A number of reports have found that the nonprofit sector has continued to grow and thrive in recent years, despite setbacks in the rest of the economy. 
“The impact of nonprofit organizations on our public and individual well-being is vast, as these organizations contribute across all facets of the social, economic and political fabric, both nationally and internation­ally,” said Anita Rees, asso­ciate director of the Notre Dame Career Center. “It is 
a  dynamic time  to  become  
i n v o l v e d  i n  n o n p r o f i t  
organizations.”  



The Observer 

Business
Friday, March 26, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Airline’s supporters resist change 
DENVER — Frontier Airlines supporters are sticking up for the animals on the company’s planes. 
Dozens of people with green and white balloons Thursday marched in downtown Denver to sup­port keeping Frontier’s brand and “spokesani­mals.” 
Indianapolis-based Republic Airways Holdings Inc. was left with a hodgepodge of brands when it bought Frontier Airlines and Milwaukee-based Midwest Airlines last year. Now it’s studying a possible rebranding for the whole fleet. 
Denver-based Frontier has described itself as a hometown carrier, and some employees are wor­ried they’ll have to start over in building customer loyalty if the Frontier name and animals go away. 
Frontier says Republic’s CEO is aware of the Denver rally. 
Cars pulled from auto graveyard 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — When Anchorage had to dispose of thousands of cars and trucks dam­aged in a powerful 1964 earthquake, it dumped them off a 350-foot bluff near the outskirts of town. 
The car dumping didn’t end there. 

Over the years, the bluff remained a convenient place to get rid of stolen or unwanted vehicles, as evidenced by the 2006 Dodge amid the heap of crumpled, rusted car frames and muffler pipes poking out at odd angles. 
But now an effort is under way to pull some of the more than 2,000 vehicles from the bluff and clean up the wildlife refuge below that was estab­lished in 1971. So far, workers have removed 60 to 70 cars, 2,000 tires and about 25 tons of other debris in an all-volunteer effort that began 2½ years ago. 
Organizers of the cleanup have come to the realization that the post-quake dumping wasn’t such a great idea after all. 
“I’m sure they were just overwhelmed by all the debris they had to take care of,” said Shawn Crouse, an employee of a construction company. “At the time, it probably seemed like a logical place to put it.” 
The vehicles damaged in the quake are packed into the side of the bluff overlooking Cook Inlet, barely concealed under a wind-swept layer of snow and sand topped with wispy strands of grass. 
Mortgage relief efforts coming 
Banks unlikely to cut debts of many borrowers; Obama to announce plan of support 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — The nation’s banks suddenly find themselves under pressure to throw greater lifelines to their most troubled mort­gage borrowers. But don’t expect every struggling bor­rower to get a bailout. 
Bank of America has already announced that it would forgive some of the principal for homeowners who owe more than their homes are worth. And the Obama administration will announce Friday a plan that will expanding the adminis­tration’s $75 billion foreclo­sure relief effort by reducing the amount other struggling borrowers owe. 
The changes “will better assist responsible homeown­ers who have been affected by the economic crisis through no fault of their own,” an administration offi­cial said. 
Government money will help many homeowners. But legal, logistical and financial obstacles may make it hard­er for banks to extend mort­gage relief to the masses. 
Herbert Allison, an assis­tant Treasury secretary, cau­tioned Thursday that an extension of government aid is, “not going to mean that all underwater mortgages are suddenly in the pro-and the complex structure of Nancy Bush said. “Their ed when dealing with second gram.” A mortgage is under-the mortgage business. hands are tied.” mortgages owned by outside water when it exceeds the A big problem is that most Making things more com-investors. value of the property it is tied of the troubled mortgages plicated are second mort-But part of the govern-to. aren’t owned by the banks gages, or so-called “piggy-ment’s relief program, which 
Bank of America Corp. themselves. They were sliced back loans.” Many lender modifies second mortgages, said Wednesday it agreed to and diced into securities dur-made such mortgages during could eliminate that hurdle. forgive a portion of the mort-ing the housing boom and the boom years, allowing Citigroup Inc. on Thursday gage balances for some of its sold to investors. In order to consumers to make a small became the fourth large most troubled borrowers. reduce principal payments or no downpayment. lender to commit to the pro-The homeowners must have on those mortgages, banks Worrying that they won’t be gram, part of the Obama missed at least two months often must get permission repaid, lenders who extend-administration’s $75 billion of mortgage payments and from the investors who holds ed second mortgages have loan modification plan. Bank owe at least 20 percent more the securities — who may been using their veto power of America, Wells Fargo & than their home is currently not be willing to take less. to block borrowers’ efforts to Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. worth. Bank of America esti-Bank of America and other modify their primary mort-already participate. mates that about 45,000 cus-banks can write down prin-gages. Another positive sign: tomers will qualify for the cipal on mortgages that Bank of America Investors who are increas­relief. they’re authorized to control. spokesman Rick Simon said ingly in limbo as borrowers 
The details of the govern-But for mortgages held by “a good portion” of the go underwater want some ment’s Friday announcement outside investors, they “real-bank’s private investors have relief too, even if that means were not immediately ly don’t have the power to authorized it to modify the they make less money on the known. But its plan may be overcome those legal obliga-mortgages. He said, howev-loans, said Jesse Litvak, a limited because of the tions to the buyers of those er, the principal reduction mortgage-bond trader at amount of funds available securities,” banking analyst process gets more complicat-Jefferies & Co in New York. 

GREECE 

Eurozone agrees on Greece’s bailout plan 
Associated Press release the loan funds. said he had wanted a program that 
The agreement at a Thursday meet-emphasized governments’ “maximum 

BRUSSELS — Heavily indebted ing of European Union leaders was a responsibility” to limit debt, praising Greece won a major pledge of finan-clear victory for German Chancellor the program as a “workable solution” cial support from the other countries Angela Merkel, who demanded that a that would “normally not need to be that use the euro and the International rescue for Greece only come when the activated.” Monetary Fund in a deal that aims to country runs out of other options. She He said Greece should now “pro­halt the government debt crisis under-also insisted that any backstop must gressively regain the confidence of the mining Europe’s currency union. include the IMF. market” and be able to borrow at 
The joint eurozone and IMF bailout It was also a comedown for the lower interest rates. Trichet said that program comes with strict conditions, French and the European Central he assumes markets will end recent making no money available to Greece Bank, which had opposed turning to volatility. “That’s my working assump­right now. It could be tapped only if the IMF out of fear it would damage tion,” he said. Greece — or other financially troubled the euro’s prestige and show that Greece’s financial difficulties have eurozone members — cannot raise Europe was unable to solve its own weighed on the shared currency, driv­funds from financial markets and financial woes. The eurozone has ing its exchange rate down to $1.33 would require the unanimous agree-never turned to the IMF. this week, the lowest level in 10 ment of the 16 eurozone countries to ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet months. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 26, 2010 
Trends 
continued from page 1 
come into the office, learn about available resources and create a 
game  plan  for  success,”  
Monahan said.  
Another  career  option  for  

graduating seniors include grad­uate school. According to the Pew Research Center, the “mil­lennial” generation is the most educated generation in American history. The education boom accelerated with increased col­lege and community college enrollment because of the lack of jobs. 
Among 18-to 24-year-olds, 
39.6 percent were enrolled in college as of 2008, according to Pew. 
“Graduate school attendance seems to be increasing,” said Nyrée McDonald, associate dean for Recruitment and Admissions to the Notre Dame Graduate School. “The Notre Dame appli­cant pool grew by 17 percent for the Fall 2010 admissions sea­son.” 
McDonald said she encourages students to talk to faculty mem­bers because they are the best resource to learn how to apply to their fields and graduate schools. 
“I talked with a small group of Notre Dame undergraduates about graduate school. My advice is to have research experience before you apply to graduate school,” McDonald said. “Take each component of the applica­tion seriously and write to your audience, they are tenure track faculty members who love what 
SUB 
continued from page 1 
´“We ran into problems with artists’ schedules matching up with our schedule in that many bands are already booked on the 


days we had available for the concert, which is why we hit a few speed bumps and had to start back at square one a couple times,” Sutton said. “Whereas last year the con­cert was in the fall, the dates available in the fall this year were not con-they do. You need to convince them that you love it too.” 
According to McDonald, 116 Notre Dame undergraduate stu­dents applied to the Graduate School for Fall 2010. 
Dan Lindley, an associate pro­fessor with the Department of Political Science and the director for the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE), said fellowships can help pay for post-graduate degrees, but also for research, teaching and other purposes. 
“Recently we have won some top fellowships for the very first time for Notre Dame,” Lindley said. “We haven’t had a Rhodes [scholar] in a while. Our Fulbright win rate is above the national average.” 
Lindley said the Gates and 

“We can’t announce that they will 
the performers to the very, very soon.” The pressure 
student body until 
is increased for 

they have accepted an the members of 
offer from us and SUB who know what is at stake. 
signed a contract.” 
“We under­stand that Julie Sutton money for stu­incoming SUB dent activities comes out of 
executive board manager 
room and board fees, and for Wicht said. 
Sutton said she is also familiar with this pressure. 
“I have definitely heard buzz all over campus,” she said. “Every time someone asks who will perform, I wish I could tell them. I know this is a big event of the year and everyone is excit­ed to find out, and I promise 
Churchill fellowships were won within the past few years for the first time in Notre Dame history. 
“What I hear from my col­leagues at other universities is the national trend [for fellow­ships] is going up,” Roberta Jordan, assistant director for National Fellowships at CUSE, said. 
Jordan said Notre Dame’s sta­tistics are staying consistent, though. 
“Many of the [fellowship] pro­grams are cutting back the num­ber of slots,” Jordan said. “With the number of applications up and the lower number of awards available, there’s an increase in competition.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
said. “From this survey, we could see definite preferences for per­formers and that narrowed down our options a great deal.” 
Contact Nora Kenney hkenney@nd.edu 
Doubles 
continued from page 1 
“Over the years, Notre Dame has been more than just a school, but a home where I feel comfortable, welcomed and challenged.” 
Walter will attend law school at Notre Dame in the fall. She said her choice was easy. 
The quality of the students and professors, emphasis on social justice and collegial atmosphere all create an ideal environment to study law, she said. 
The category of two-time Notre Dame graduates includes a few notable alum­ni, such as current congress­man for Indiana’s 2nd con­gressional district Joe Donnelly and Chief U.S. District Judge for New Mexico Martha Vasquez. Both received undergraduate degrees and law degrees from Notre Dame. 
Walter said she spoke to other two-time graduates about staying on campus to complete her advanced degree. 
“I know a few current law students who are Double Domers as well as some Double Domer alumni,” she said. “Those I talked to shared the same enthusiasm about their experience and encour­aged me to seriously consider pursuing a similar path.” 
Walter said while she con­sidered attending law school elsewhere, staying at Notre Dame was her first choice. 
“I considered other law schools but I thought Notre Dame was the best fit for me in many ways,” she said. “I love Notre Dame and I am proud that I can continue to be a part of the Irish tradition for the next three years.” 
Like Walter, doctoral stu­dent Joe Brutto said he want­ed to remain at Notre Dame to pursue his graduate studies. 
“I considered and applied to other schools, but Notre Dame was my first choice,” Brutto said. 
Brutto graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in political science and philoso­phy. He is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in political science with a focus on political theo­ry and American politics. 
“The main reason I chose to return to Notre Dame for grad school was the collegiality I found both within the Political Science department and between our department and other departments,” he said. “In the [Political Science] grad program, the grad students get along with one another and are interested in helping each other pursue their own interests.” 
Brutto said he felt Notre Dame’s graduate studies cul­ture differed from other uni­versities in that it is less com­petitive. 
“In some programs at other universities, graduate stu­dents have to compete for funding or faculty attention,” he said. “This element is com­pletely absent from our pro­gram and I believe that it makes for much better gradu­ate experience.” 
Walter said she thinks stu­dents’ first four years here can leave them wanting more. 
“I think the experience as an undergraduate here is so wonderful that many find it difficult to leave,” she said. “That dozens of students are willing to brave the South Bend winter for two or three more years certainly speaks volumes about what Notre Dame has to offer.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 

ducive to the schedules of the artists.” 
For this reason, she said, SUB moved the concert to the spring, and it is planned for April 10. 
“We can’t announce the per­formers to the student body until they have accepted an offer from us and signed a contract,” Sutton said. 
She did, however, confirm that these processes are underway with two different musical artists. 
Marie Wicht is the concert co-that reason we really owe it to the students to produce a good show,” Sutton said. “We under­stand why this is so important, and we want to deliver a concert that students would want to go to and we’re glad we spent their money how we did.” 
Wicht said the process of plan­ning the event has been fun as well as stressful. 
“There are a ton of things to consider when it comes to the concert and the hardest part is definitely coming to a consensus 

p r o g r a m m e r  on who is the  
with Brian Hagerty. She said encounter­ “I know this is a big event of the year and  best fit for the student body and who people  
ing pressure and s p e c u l a t i o n about the con- everyone is excited to find out, and I promise  actually want to see,” Wicht said. Wicht worked  
cert from the  that they will very,  with a team of  
student body has become part of  very soon.”  SUB members to help plan the  
her everyday life.  Julie Sutton  concert, and surveyed stu­ 
“I get asked  incoming SUB  dents for ideas.  
almost every day who the concert  executive board manager  “It was really successful. We  
will be or will we  got over a thou- 

have a concert, etc. So yes, sand responses the first night of we’re very conscious of the spec-the survey and have over 2,000 ulation throughout campus,” total responses to date,” Wicht 
Friday, March 26, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 9 
Tunes 
continued from page 1 
that are kind of strung together to create a story,” Thomas said. 
Students will sing a mix of opera, theatre tunes and rock tunes to create three differ­ent scenes pertaining to the fairy tale theme. Singers will be junior Anna Bax and freshmen Erin Marks, Toni Marsteller, Angie Schott, Ashley Stopzynski and Joy Viceroy. Students have been working on this performance since the beginning of the spring semester. 
“It’s for the students to learn something and also to offer it to the community,” she said. “It’s educational and also an outreach.” 
A small orchestra will accompany the singers. Members of the orchestra include sophomores Sarah Chidester and Alexis Hiner, and freshmen Bethany Ledyard and Kristen Vokt. Sherry Klinedinst, a member of the music department’s faculty, directs the orchestra. 
The show will be held on the O’Laughlin Auditorium Stage tonight and tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. 
The performance will include three different scenes. One scene will be based off of “Hansel and Gretel.” Another scene will be about “Little Red Riding Hood” and the third scene will be about “Cinderella.” 
“It’s created to kind of be a kid’s show,” Thomas said. “I mean, it’s a show that kids would like, but it’s not strictly for children. Anybody can come to it.” 


The performance will con­sist of a variety of songs, including selections from the opera “Hansel and Gretel” by Engelbert Humperdinck, “Great Big Word” from “Hoodwinked” and selections from “Cenerentola,” an opera by Gioacchino Rossini. 
According to Thomas, the show was designed with the specific singers in mind. 
“This show was created specifically for these stu­dents, taking their individual talents and gifts into consid­eration,” Thomas said. 
Thomas said the perform­ance was created with chil­dren in mind as well. 
“When we were designing the show, we decided to go with the idea that this was a show that kids would put on and so there’s nothing realis­tic about the set and the cos­tumes and all,” Thomas said. “It’s more like how would you make a dressing table out of some crates or how would you draw a tree. So the trees are like cartoon trees. So the design of the show is kind of like a children’s designed show.” 
Tickets for the show will cost $11 for adults, $9 for seniors, $8 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s faculty and staff and $6 for students and children. They can be pur­chased at the Moreau Box Office. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

Strength 
continued from page 1 
“I really deal mostly with the personal struggles of the guys. There’s no agenda that I’m coming in with,” he said. “I have my own personal politics but I try to leave that at the door.” 
Robertson said having a support group specifically for college-aged men is useful especially because this time of transition can be difficult. 
“It’s a time when you’re growing from the faith of your adolescence when generally you accept what you’re taught and you follow the rules … to a period of questioning that and struggling it and maybe challenging it a little bit,” Robertson said. “You have new experiences that make you question what you were told growing up.” 
Robertson said this semester several of the group members are in relationships, so they decided to address the faith component of relationships — from marriage to ordination to single life. 
“Single life is defined by what it’s not — you’re not married and you’re not a priest or a nun,” he said. “We are looking at some helpful way to define this transition.” 
The group’s small size, Robertson said, is part of its appeal to members. 
“There’s a level of trust … and it’s a pretty self-selective group,” he said. “The men who come are intentional about sharing. They sought me out.” 
Robertson led two separate groups of five students each last semester and said he would consider doing the same this year if more stu­dents expressed interest. 
Although Men of Strength and another GRC-sponsored group, Men Against Violence, exist, Robertson said he knows of no such group that exists yet for Notre Dame women. 
Scheduled to be married this summer in his native Winnipeg, Robertson said after next year, his last year in the Master’s of Divinity pro­gram, he plans to hand off the group to someone else before returning back to Canada. 
“I probably will be looking for a first or second year [Master’s of Divinity] student to hand the group over to,” he said. “I really have tried to keep a paper trail of what’s worked and what hasn’t.” 
The name of the group comes from the passage in 2 Corinthians 12:10, which reads: “For when I am weak, then I am strong.” 
Contact Carly Landon clandon1@nd.edu 
Hacker sentenced to 20 years 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — A computer hack­er from Miami who orchestrat­ed one of the largest theft of credit and debit card numbers in U.S. history was sentenced Thursday to 20 years in prison after he apologized for leading a scheme that cost companies, banks and insurers nearly $200 million. 
Albert Gonzalez, a one-time federal informant, pleaded guilty last year to breaking into the computer networks of major retailers, including TJX Cos., BJ’s Wholesale Club, Barnes & Noble, OfficeMax, and the restaurant chain Dave & Buster’s. 
U.S. District Judge Patti Saris sentenced Gonzalez to the mid­dle of the 15-to 25-year range spelled out in a plea agreement Gonzalez reached with prose­cutors. 
Just before he was sen­tenced, the 28-year-old Gonzalez apologized as his mother, father and sister watched from the front row of the courtroom. His father wept softly and dabbed his eyes with a handkerchief. 
Gonzalez said he did it not out of greed, but instead “because of my inability to stop my pursuit” and “my (Internet) addiction.” 
“I blame nobody but myself,” he said. 
He said he did not give much thought to people whose credit and debit card numbers were stolen. “I always thought that they were being made whole by their financial institutions,” he said. 
Authorities said Gonzalez amassing $2.8 million he used to buy a Miami condo, a car, Rolex watches and a Tiffany ring for his girlfriend. They said Gonzalez and two foreign co-defendants would drive past retailers with a laptop comput­er, tapping into those with vul­nerable wireless Internet sig­nals. The trio would then install “sniffer programs” that picked off credit and debit card numbers as they moved through a retailer’s computers before trying to sell the num­bers overseas, authorities said. 
Gonzalez, who was known online as “soupnazi,” was a self-taught computer genius. 
He was first arrested for hacking in 2003, but was not charged because he became an informant, helping the Secret Service find other hackers. But authorities said that over the next five years, he hacked into the computer systems of Fortune 500 companies even while providing assistance to the government. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Heymann said Gonzalez led a group of profes­sional hackers and identity thieves in three states, Ukraine and Russia. He said the group made money by selling num­bers on the black market and by going to ATMs and taking “bundles of money” out of accounts. 
Prosecutors estimate the group stole tens of millions of debit and credit card numbers, costing corporations and banks millions when they were forced to cancel accounts, open new accounts, monitor accounts for fraud, beef up their network security and invest in public relations to ensure they would-n’t lose customers. Authorities found more than 40 million dis­tinct card numbers on two of Gonzalez’s computer servers. 
Prosecutors asked for the maximum, 25-year sentence under the plea deal, while Gonzalez’s attorney, Martin Weinberg, asked for the low end of 15 years. 
Weinberg said Gonzalez has “gained an understanding of the harm he’s done” during the 22 months he’s spent in jail since his arrest in May 2008, and has “genuine and deep remorse.” 
“He recognizes what he did was wrong,” Weinberg said. 
Weinberg also cited a report from a defense psychiatrist who said Gonzalez showed behavior consistent with Asperger’s syndrome, a form of autism, and Internet addiction. He said that for Gonzalez, a computer “is like a drug.” 
Saris sentenced Gonzalez to two 20-year terms — to run 
concurrently  — one  for  a  
Massachusetts  case  that  
included  the  theft  from  

Framingham-based TJX Cos., OfficeMax and other stores, and the other from a New York case that included Dave & Buster’s. 
Gonzalez is scheduled to be sentenced Friday by a different judge in Boston in a New Jersey case involving the theft of card numbers from the Scarsborough, Maine-based Hannaford Bros. supermarket chain, 7-Eleven and Heartland. 
Saris also sentenced Gonzalez to three years of supervised release after he completes his prison term. During those three years, he cannot have any access to com­puters, Saris said. 
The judge set a separate hearing for June 25 to deter­mine the amount of restitution Gonzalez will be ordered to pay, although the judge acknowledged that Gonzalez will not likely be able to pay the large amount she is expect­ed to order. 
Under the plea deals, Gonzalez must forfeit more than $2.7 million of the $2.8 million that authorities say he stole. He also must give up his condo, car, a Tiffany ring that he gave to his girlfriend and Rolex watches he gave to his father and friends. 


page 10 The Observer  NEWS Friday, March 26, 2010 
Study:FrenchMuslimsatdisadvantage 

Associated Press 
PARIS — French Muslims face considerable discrimination based purely on their religion instead of their country of origin, according to a study released Thursday by French and American researchers. 
The study, “Are French Muslims Discriminated Against in Their Own Country?” found that Muslims sending out resumes in hopes of a job interview had 2.5 times less chance than Christians of a positive response to their applications. It also showed that monthly salaries of Muslims was on average euro400 less than Christians. 
“The discrimination Muslim candidates endure in the French labor market therefore seems to have concrete repercussions on their standard of living,” the study says. 
The study bills itself as the first to isolate Islam as the source of discrimination in the labor mar­ket. 
The work was conducted by two Stanford University professors, David Laitin and Claire Adida, and a colleague at the Sorbonne University, Marie-Anne Valfort. It was carried out in conjunction with the French-American Foundation and a grant from the 
U.S. National Science Foundation. 
To determine whether Muslim French citizens of immigrant ori­gin suffered specifically religious discrimination, the researchers fabricated nearly identical resumes for two single, 24-year­old women from Senegal. 
Immigrants hailing from sub-Saharan Africa are “less sponta­neously associated with Islam” in the collective mind, the study explains. 
Batches of resumes for the two women, Marie Diouf and Khadija Diouf, plus a third woman with a typically French name, Aurelie Menard, were sent out in response to published job offers in hopes of getting an initial inter­view. 
Marie’s resume showed a peri­od of work as an assistant accountant at Secours Catholique and volunteer work with French Scouts of France. Khadija’s showed the same accounting work with Secours Islamique. and volunteer work with Muslim Scouts of France. 
Marie received 21 percent of positive responses, Khadija received 8 percent. 
Another study looked at 511 households of Senegalese origin and found that Muslims made euro400 a month less, on aver­age. 
France, with Western Europe’s largest Muslim population, has been wrestling with how to better integrate citizens of immigrant origin, particularly its estimated 5 million strong Muslim population, mainly from former colonies in North Africa. 
There is, in particular, wide­spread concern that some Muslims are compromising secu­larism, a value inscribed in the France’s constitution and meant to assure that all citizens are equal. 
Laitin said the study suggests that “the goals of secularism (have) not been fulfilled ...,” Laitin said. “At present, their own ideals have not been fully met.” 
U.S. prodigy claims age discrimination 
Associated Press 
STORRS, Conn. — Even at 13, Colin Carlson believes he’s running out of time. 
Colin is a sophomore at the University of Connecticut, seeking a bachelor’s degree in ecology and evolutionary biolo­gy and another in environmen­tal studies. But he’s been knocked off course by the uni­versity’s rejection of his request to take a class that includes summer field work in South Africa. 
He and his mother say uni­versity officials told them he is too young for the overseas course. So he’s filed an age discrimination claim with the university and U.S. Department of Education, which is investigating. 
“I’m losing time in my four-year plan for college,” he said. “They’re upsetting the frame­work of one of my majors.” 
Michael Kirk, a spokesman for the university, would not comment on Colin’s case. But he said that generally, safety is the university’s first concern when travel is involved. 
The university would not let Colin enroll, even after his mother, Jessica Offir, offered to release the university from lia­bility and accompany her son as a chaperone at her own expense, she and Colin said. 
Colin was 2 or 3 when he began reading on his own, Offir said, and was up to “Harry Potter” by the time he was 4. An only child, he has faced trouble before because of his brainpower. His kinder­garten teacher would not allow him to take books with him at nap time, and he was ridiculed by other children who fired math questions at him to entertain themselves, she said. 
“You have no idea what kids like this experience,” Offir said. 
Colin skipped two grades in public school and began taking psychology, history and other courses at the University of Connecticut when he was 9. 
He graduated from Stanford University Online High School at age 11, and soon after enrolled full-time at the University of Connecticut. 
“I’m actually like any other student,” he said. “The faculty and students have better things to do than worry about a 13-year-old holding his own.” 
Over the years, Colin, who said he is fascinated by natural ecosystems, has traveled extensively. He has gone sea kayaking off Nova Scotia and Ecuador, hiked in numerous national parks and, with his mother, has traveled across the U.S. by car. 
“It’s important to have a very wide world view,” he said. “Biology is fundamentally about the diversity of life, with a focus across the planet.” 
Colin says the course in con­servation work in South Africa would have been critical to his studies and the rejection has forced him to change his thesis plans. 
He said that once he’s com­pleted his undergraduate stud­ies, he wants a Ph.D. in ecolo­gy and evolutionary biology and a degree in environmental law for a career in conserva­tion science. He intends to earn the two degrees by age 22. 
Carl Schlichting, a professor of ecology and evolutionary biology who has taught Colin in two courses, said he is not only an outstanding student, but is unusually certain for a 13-year-old about where he is headed professionally. 
“He has very strong ideas about what he wants to do,” he said. “His self-confidence is very high. It’s a very unusual package to see the intellect and confidence at that age.” 
To be eligible to study abroad, students may not be on university probation or aca­demic probation and must have earned a grade point average of at least a “C’’ — no problem for Colin, who’s an honor student with a near-per­fect 3.9 grade point average. 

UK police asks Internet cafes to monitor customers 
Associated Press 
LONDON — Internet cafe users in the British capital may want to watch what they down­load. Scotland Yard is advising administrators of public Web spaces to periodically poke through their customers’ files and keep an eye out for suspi­cious activity. 
The Metropolitan Police said Thursday that the initiative — which has been rolled out over the past weeks under the aus­pices of the government’s coun­terterrorism strategy — is aimed at reminding cafe owners that authorities are ready to hear from them if they have concerns about their Internet users. 
Posters and computer desktop images emblazoned with Scotland Yard’s logo are also being distributed. 
“It’s not about asking owners to spy on their customers, it’s about raising awareness,” a police spokesman said, speak­ing anonymously in line with force policy. “We don’t ask them to pass on data for us.” 
Still, he said, police were “encouraging people to check on hard drives.” He did not elaborate, saying it would be up to cafe owners to decide if or how to monitor what customers left on their computers. 
Checking hard drives could reveal what customers were up to fairly easily under the right circumstances, according to Graham Cluley of software security company Sophos. For example, an owner could exam­ine a browser’s Internet history or sift through the programs or documents the customer down­loaded — although distinguish­ing which user did what might be difficult in a busy cafe. 
But Cluley noted that a com-puter-savvy criminal could make their activities invisible in a few simple steps. 
“You would expect any cyber­criminal who had made the decision to use an Internet cafe to pretty much dust off their fin­gerprints,” he said. 
Still, Cluley said “there’s no harm in keeping an eye open.” 
While the program is volun­tary — owners can ignore police advice if they so choose — civil libertarians aren’t happy. One said it risked creating an atmos­phere of fear while undermining Internet users’ privacy. 
“What you’re going to end up with is a lot of people reporting Muslims in Internet cafes,” said Simon Davies, the director of U.K.-based Privacy International. Although he acknowledged that people might have lower expectations of pri­vacy in an Internet cafe than at home, he said their communica­tions should nonetheless be kept to themselves. 
“We don’t expect that our calls from a public phone would be monitored, anymore than we should expect our e-mails to be monitored,” he said. “As citi­zens we have to hold the line that there is a fundamental right of privacy of communica­tions.” 
Police say Internet cafe own­ers should remain vigilant in part because the venues have often been used by terrorists and other criminals in an attempt to evade detection. The police spokesman noted that the men behind the plot to blow up U.S.-bound passengers jets with liquid explosives secreted into soft drink containers used an Internet cafe to coordinate their plot. 
So far the only visible sign of the police’s initiative were some sternly worded posters warning customers against accessing “inappropriate or offensive con­tent” posted at Internet cafes in various areas of London. The desktop images promoted by Scotland Yard — which would have the warning staring out from every computer screen — were absent from the few north London cafes seen by The Associated Press. 
In other EU nations Internet cafes generally go about their business with a minimum of official interference. 
Germany’s federal police agency Bundeskriminalamt has no similar program, spokes­woman Barbara Huebner said, while French Internet cafes do not generally monitor users’ activity. 
At a Paris Internet cafe that is part of the Cybercafe Milk chain, employees are not allowed to view what their cus­tomers are researching on the Internet. 
“It’s private, thankfully,” said employee Pierre Larroque, 31. 
Back in Britain, K. Jama of IFKA Tele.com in the Camden area of north London said his cafe couldn’t be bothered to monitor its customers’ down­loads or Internet history — which he said were wiped from the computers every day in any case. Still, the 34-year-old said the police’s posters were a use­ful way of deterring criminals from his shop. 

Friday, March 26, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
California ghost town sinks, wildlife returns 
Associated Press 
ALVISO, Calif. — A ghost town that was once a weekend get­away for San Francisco Bay area residents is slowly sinking into mud, and officials said the best option is to let it be buried. 
The town of Drawbridge, at the far reach of Alameda County, is part of a $400 million effort by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to restore bay wetlands. 
About 20 buildings remain in the marshy area and as they sink, ducks, geese, shorebirds and other wildlife return. 
Eric Mruz, manager of the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge, which encompasses Drawbridge, said it would be too costly to restore the town, and making it a tourist attraction would threat­en the surrounding sensitive wetland. Drawbridge is accessi­ble only by boat and a walk in hip waders. 
“It’s a landmark, so we’re not going to do anything to acceler­ate its decay, but we’re not going to prevent it either,” Mruz said. “We’re letting the buildings return to the marsh.” 
Established around 1880 when the railroads hired an operator to raise the train draw­bridge over a slough for ship­ping traffic, the town experi­enced its heyday in the 1920s. 
Hunters and fishermen arrived on the weekends and the population swelled to about 1,000. About 90 buildings were erected, mostly on stilts because of the tides, and residents had wells and electricity. Trains stopped there five times a day. 
There were no roads in town, and during high tides, neighbors would row to each other’s hous­es for parties. Police rarely made the trek to Drawbridge because most residents were armed. 
The town started sinking in the 1930s, when surrounding communities started pumping water to accommodate building booms. They also dumped raw sewage into the sloughs there, making Drawbridge a less desir­able vacation destination. 
The last residents left in 1979. By then, the train stops had ended and the land was fouled. 
The buildings that remain are located along the train tracks and dilapidated. The site is closed to the public. 
“What got people out here to begin with — hunting and fish­ing — was the abundance of wildlife. Now we’re seeing the final chapter,” said John Bourgeois, head of the South Bay Restoration Project. “As this town sinks away, we’re able to bring this area back to its glory.” 


Reservation to receive broadband 
Associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — The federal government is investing more than $32 million in stimu­lus funds to help the nation’s largest American Indian reserva­tion, the Navajo Nation, build a high-speed Internet highway that will connect thousands of homes and businesses across the sprawling reservation. 
U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke announced the grant Thursday, saying Navajo commu­nities in New Mexico, Arizona and Utah will benefit from 550 miles of new fiber optic cables and 59 new or modified microwave towers that will be capable of blanketing 15,000 square miles. 
Locke said during a conference call with Navajo President Joe Shirley Jr. and congressmen from New Mexico and Utah that 60 percent of residents on the reser­vation lack basic telephone serv­ice and many Navajo communi­ties have unemployment levels that exceed 40 percent. 
“Today, too many people in Navajo Nation are struck on the wrong side of the digital divide, and when you don’t have regular access to high-speed Internet, you don’t have access to all the educational, business and employment opportunities that high-speed Internet provides,” Locke said. 
The grant will help fix “this glaring inequality,” he said. 
The funding awarded to the Navajo Tribal Utility Authority was among $63 million in federal investments announced by Locke. All of the money is aimed at increasing broadband access in remote or underserved commu­nities in more than a dozen states. 
In Illinois, the city of Chicago received $7 million to spur eco­nomic development in a handful of disadvantaged neighborhoods with a broadband awareness and adoption program that will include computers and training opportunities for more than 11,000 residents. 
Nearly $4 million will go toward creating a dozen new public computer centers in sever­al other states. 
Competition for the grants was fierce, Locke said. The Commerce Department’s Broadband Technology Opportunities Program received more than 1,800 applications proposing projects totaling nearly $19 bil­lion during the first funding round. 
The Navajo project, expected to be complete in three years, will be spearheaded by the tribe’s utility authority. The agency is providing nearly $14 million in matching funds. 
Once the infrastructure is in place, officials say affordable broadband service will be acces­sible to 30,000 homes, 1,000 businesses and 1,100 community institutions across the Navajo Nation. 


$100,000 missing after armored car spills bag 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — More than $100,000 is missing after a bag of cash fell from an armored car into an intersec­tion, leading several motorists to stop and grab handfuls of bills, police said Thursday. 
About $100,000 was picked up by police officers and $12,000 more was returned by 10 or so people after the bag hit the pavement, was run over and split open Wednesday morning in Whitehall in subur­ban Columbus, said police Sgt. Dan Kelso. About 15 to 20 peo­ple scrambled to grab cash, Kelso said. 
Callers told a 911 dispatcher that there were “$20 bills everywhere,” ‘’money floating all over the place” and “it’s causing a major scene.” 
“A bunch of people are block­ing traffic because it looks like a truck has lost some money,” one caller told police. 
The truck belonged to Garda Cash Logistics and the bag fell into the street about a block from a Garda facility. Joe Gavaghan, a spokesman for the Montreal-based company, said the firm was cooperating with police, but declined further comment. 
Kelso said the cash was in various smaller bags and belongs to several businesses and banks. 
“It’s not free money,” he said. “It’s different than walking down the street and finding a $5 bill laying there. This is clearly marked, identifiable money that belongs to some­body else laying in the middle of a busy intersection with bank bags lying all over the place. 
“It’s no different than ... if you found somebody’s wallet and it was full of money, and clearly you can open the wallet and see it belongs to somebody. That’s not your money.” 
Police were reviewing cell phone videos and surveillance video from a nearby stores, including a gas station, in an effort to find out who has the missing cash. 
Kelso said no arrests had been made, but that people who fail to return cash could face charges such as grand theft. 
“The people that have come in and been honest and turned in money, those people haven’t been charged,” Kelso said. “That’s what people need to do because if we have to find them, which is what we’re doing, we are going to charge them.” 
Kelso did not know where the vehicle was headed at the time, and it was unclear how the bag fell out of the truck. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 12 Friday, March 26, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Douglas Farmer Molly Madden Molly Sammon Carly Landon Luke Mansour Graphics Viewpoint Blair Chemidlin Michelle Maitz Scene Adriana Pratt 
University should not impede activism 



College campuses are traditionally a forum for social activism. In the past, Notre Dame students have exemplified this by protesting issues such as the University’s decision to invite President Barack Obama to speak on campus and advocating for the inclusion of sexual orientation in the nondiscrimination clause. 
In these instances, the University allowed the students’ voices to be heard — something that is crucial to campus 
This is in response to Sy Doan’s March 25 letter “Christopher Hitchens is the next Obama.” 
I’m an atheist and I don’t like this any better than you do. However, I can think of several reasons why the sponsors chose Hitchens and the administration has been oddly quiet about their choice. 
The one that seems most likely to me is, they want to make atheism look ridiculous. To represent the side of non-belief, they chose a real-life straw man with views so radical that no Notre Dame student could possibly agree with him, so that Christianity would look reasonable and brilliant in comparison. That might just be me being a little cynical, so I’ll move on. 
A more charitable explanation would be that the sponsors naively went with the most famous atheist they could scrounge up, without doing much research. But I know Notre Dame organ­izations aren’t that lazy. 
them luck! 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“An unhurried sense of time is in itself a form of wealth.” 
Bonnie Friedman 
U.S. author 
Fear of disciplinary action by the administration should not be a deterrent for students in expressing their ideas — particularly if the idea goes against University policy. 
Activism on campus is a visible sign that the student body is thoughtfully questioning social norms and taking actions to right wrongs they see in the world around them. The University should create an environment that fosters this kind of activism. 
life. 

Recently, the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) initiated disciplinary sanc­tions against several students for passing out flyers protesting the University’s investment in HEI Hotels and Resorts outside the Junior Parents Weekend Mass in February. 
The students alleged HEI violates workers 
rights, particularly the right to unionize. Student groups have asked University President Fr. John Jenkins and Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass to stop investing in the company several times in the past. 
The students facing disciplinary action did not follow the procedure outlined by du Lac, the student handbook, for staging their Feb. 20 demonstration. Du Lac states: “All demonstrations must be registered in writing with the asso­ciate vice president for Residence Life.” 
But there is a difference between the letter of the law and the spirit of the law. 
The demonstration was not disruptive. Although Notre Dame Security Police had to stop the students from passing out the flyers as they did not have permission to do so, pun­ishment by ORLH is extreme given the peaceful nature of the protest. 
Free speech, social activism and thoughtful demonstration should be valued over the regulations for demonstrations in du Lac. 
As student government and the administration are discussing changes to du Lac, they should examine the rules for demonstrations in the handbook. 
One University officer, the associate vice presi­dent of Residence Life, has the power to register student protests. One person should not have the sole ability to decide which demonstrations have 
merit and which do not. 
The University needs to clarify the role of the associate vice president of Residence Life in registering student demonstrations. 
As long as students continue to stage campus demonstra­tions in a peaceful manner that does not disrupt the free­doms of those around them, disciplinary action for those peaceful protests should be nonexistent. 
But for the situation at hand, while the University needed to uphold du Lac by dispersing the February protest, they do not need to punish the students further for expressing their beliefs. 
So when deciding on a disciplinary action for the students, ORLH should be purposefully lenient. The students should face the consequences for not following the regulations set by du Lac, but the Office also needs to send the message that the free flow of ideas is important to the administration. 
The University needs to show that it values the efforts of students to effect social change. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The wrong impression 
Alternatively, they may have been trying to make the debate as entertaining as possible by choosing debaters with some fire to them. But if that’s the case, why didn’t they make it Christopher Hitchens vs. Billy Graham? Oh, yes, because this was meant to be a scholarly, serious affair. 
The most worrisome possibility of all is, the sponsors legiti­mately believe that the views of this cantankerous buffoon are shared by the average atheist. If so, it is all the more important that a few moderate atheists be brought to campus to speak in the future. 
I’d hate for anyone to get the wrong impression. 
Angela Hiss 
senior Lewis Hall March 25 

Gymnasts competing at Michigan Madness meet 
Please cheer on the Notre Dame gymnastics team as they compete in Michigan this weekend. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s gymnastics club travels to Eastern Michigan University to compete against some of the finest gymnasts in the midwest, including the University of Michigan Wolverines. If you see a gymnast flipping around campus, wish 
Charissa Hannigan parent March 25 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You've got to do your own growing, no matter how tall your grandfather was.” 
Irish proverb 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, March 26, 2010 page 13 
Bishop D’Arcy reflects on Notre Dame 

In this column, “The Notre Dame They Know,” I will interview individuals who have been influenced by the University of Notre Dame. 
I will seek to discover the unique role that Notre Dame has played in their life and vocational Thomas Bounds journey. 
It is hoped that this column will 

The Notre Dame 
inculcate a deeper, 

They Know 
more honest and more profound love for Our Lady and Her University. 
Mount Alverno rises over the agrarian landscape just south of Saint Joseph’s River in Mishawaka. Perched atop the hill, hidden within the Mother House of the Sisters of Saint Francis of Perpetual Adoration, in an apartment that serves as his home when he is in South Bend, Bishop Emeritus John Michael D’Arcy sits at a table covered in the slanting mid-afternoon sun. Resting in clerics, Bishop D’Arcy begins his story. 
“I was born in Brighton, a neighborhood of Boston. My parents had emigrated from the west of Ireland, and came to the United States with nothing. My father had a small grocery business. They were peo­ple of great faith, and remain the great lights of my life. 
“I entered St. John’s Seminary in Brighton after graduating high school. Upon ordination, I became a parish priest at St. Mary’s in Beverly, Massachusetts where I ministered for eight years until I was sent to Rome by Cardinal Cushing to get a doctorate in ascetical spiritual theol­ogy. I then returned to Brighton, serving as a teacher and spiritual director at my former seminary, where I served for eight years. In 1975, I was appointed an auxil­iary bishop of Boston by Pope Paul VI, where I served for 10 years. In 1985, I was appointed by Pope John Paul II as Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend, and served until January of 2010.” 
Reflecting on his ministry, Bishop D’Arcy says, “The most rewarding aspects have included fidelity to the Church and its teaching; preaching the Gospel; working with priests, who always show such will­ingness to do hard things for the good of the Church; and helping to guide the Church through a difficult time with its integrity intact.” 
Considering his own relationship with the University of Notre Dame, Bishop D’Arcy says, “It has been a privilege to be associated with the Congregation of Holy Cross and Notre Dame all of these years. It’s a splendid place. 
“There have been difficulties that arose over the years because the Bishop has special responsibilities to Catholic identity. That does not take away from the great joy of being associated with Notre Dame: a place I dearly love and respect. The Bishop sometimes has to do hard things for the good of the flock. He’s basically a teacher, and he teaches not just by his words but by his example. 
“In recent years, two things have come up. One is the Monologues play; the other is the Commencement invitation and award presentation to President Obama. The latter, specifically the awarding of a Doctor of Laws to the President, required a public response from the Bishop because it was a public matter. 
“I saw the whole event as a painful time, but with much beauty, especially from the young people. Being associated with them was a great privilege. They made their protest respectful and clear, rooted in Catholic teaching and prayer. 
“There was so much publicity surround­ing the event that the Bishops took it up in their meeting in San Antonio [June 2009]. I was asked to give a presentation, and there was a standing ovation afterwards from the Bishops. That’s when I decided that it was necessary to write an article in America to clarify the situation in light of the visit of Pope Benedict the previous year, in which he spoke about the impor­tance of the Catholic University giving public witness to Catholic faith, which he said should shape all aspects of life inside and outside the classroom. 
“Notre Dame is a Catholic educational icon. It is looked up to around the country as a place of learning and faith. It is dedi­cated to the Mother of God. That’s why there was the great trauma last spring; because people wanted it to be true to the Catholic faith in all its fullness.” 
Reflecting on the University, Bishop D’Arcy comments, “The most significant improvement over the past 25 years has been in the Theology department. 
“At the last ad limina visit I made with Pope John Paul II in 2004, I had the opportunity to meet with Cardinal Ratzinger [now Pope Benedict XVI]. He said, ‘You have done a wonderful thing for the Church,’ referring to the Theology department. I said, ‘It wasn’t me. It was the Blessed Mother.’ ‘Well,’ he said, ‘you’re the instrument.’ I replied, ‘No, not really, it was John Cavadini.’ 
“He’s such an outstanding scholar, and he has recruited outstanding scholars who are also Catholic. You now have a depart­ment that is in close communion with the local bishop and is growing stronger theo­logically. No one’s freedom was threat­ened, and yet it has grown closer to the Church and the theology has improved.” 
Reflecting on the relationship between the University and the Church, the Bishop observes, “I would refer to Pope John Paul II’s Apostolic Constitution “Ex Corde Ecclesiae” — From the Heart of the Church. The University is part of the Church. It’s central to the Church’s life. It has full freedom and this should always include a close communion and unity based on truth between the local bishop and the Church. 
“Catholic Universities have to address the question of Academic Freedom. “Ex Corde Ecclesiae” addresses it clearly. It links it to the common good, and the rights of others. It is a definition rooted in Catholic Social Teaching. The Catholic Universities must ask themselves, ‘Are we going to be guided by this understanding or by the Land of Lakes Statement?’ I hope that there will be gradual and steady progress towards what is outlined in “Ex Corde Ecclesiae.” 
“I think Notre Dame is a splendid place, and I think it has a vocation to be a great Catholic University. I pray often that we’ll continue to grow in that direction. It’s always in my prayers.” 
Thomas Bounds is a senior. He can be contacted at tbounds@nd.edu 
Bishop D’Arcy’s secretary, Maureen, may be contacted at mschott@fw.diocesefwsb.org. His Excellency recommends that you read Jesus of Nazareth by His Holiness Pope Benedict XVI. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

So far, I’ve survived ‘ObamaCare’ 
What a week to catch my first chest cold in several years. Many times a day, while nursing my miserable congestion, my e­mail account fluttered with apocalyptic warnings from Alan M. Gottlieb, Chairman of the conservative AmeriPAC organiza­tion about what he calls, “ObamaCare.” Gottlieb’s personal pleadings began, “We need your continued help more than ever as ‘Socialized Health Care Must Still Be Stopped!’” 
“Wow,” I thought to myself. Who wants that much socialism? After all, socialism is a form of the govern­ment pooling citizens together for the common good. Who the hell would want that? But then I remembered — local police forces, fire departments and school systems are all forms of socialism. Say what you may about an individual organi­zation or the merits of home schooling, but those particular forms of a socialized system have worked pretty well now for hundreds of years. 
Next Gottlieb enlightened me about the specific facts House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid do not want me personally to know. They are, “rejecting sensible ideas, not starting over, feeding on the members of their own party and when all else fails Obama, Pelosi and Reid have become true dicta­tors as they lie, cheat and deal.” 
In another message, Gottlieb notes, “Obama truly made history by betraying America and has become a Progressive Dictator ruling from the extreme liberal left with his own agenda.” He traces the roots of Obama’s socialistic past in a 1996 Obama commitment made while running for state senate to the Chicago Democratic Socialist Party. Even the socialist maga­zine, “Progressive Populist,” acknowl­edges “new party member Barack Obama [who] was uncontested for a State Senate seat from Chicago.” 
But Gottlieb then flaunts his tireless fight “to stop the progressive socialist agenda of Obama” and takes credit for more than 1,346,016 faxes and phone calls that virtually shut down the congres­sional switchboard while “Democrats told American that their government does not listen to them. Instead, Democrats accept­ed Pelosi’s bribes of power, money, prom­ises of committee positions and getting better office space and sold out America.” 

Gottlieb further chronicles his belief that ObamaCare: 
• Imposes $2.5 trillion in new taxes 
• 
Puts seven percent of Americans on a government subsidy to help pay for mandatory health insurance 

• 
Raises taxes on 25 percent of Americans earning $200,000 a year 

• 
Raises taxes on three middle-class families to pay for every family receiving a government subsidy 

• 
Excludes 93 percent of Americans who are not eligible for a tax benefit under the bill. 


Well, Alan — may I call you Alan, since I have at least 40 communications from you? That is exactly what the bill does, and much more. The legislation not only reduces the deficit by more than a trillion dollars in 10 years, it models itself on the initial Social Security foundation whereby several workers while currently employed pay into the system for the benefits of some who are retired. What would you like to repeal? 
Starting this week, reform immediately began to lower health care costs for American families and small businesses. For example, small businesses can now receive tax credits of up to 35 percent of premiums to help cover employees. This year, early retirees will receive help through a temporary re-insurance pro­gram that offsets the costs of expensive premiums for employers and retirees aged 55-64. Shall we forego these busi­ness-friendly initiatives by labeling them some form of socialism? 
Or shall we turn right around now and take back money we just put into the American public’s pockets with this law? Now, new private plans must provide free preventive care: no co-payments and no deductibles for preventive services. Medicare will do the same next January. This year, the law starts to close the Medicare Part D “donut hole” by providing a $250 rebate to Medicare beneficiaries who reach the gap in prescription drug coverage. Next year, the bill institutes a 50 percent discount on prescription drugs for seniors in the “donut hole.” It is not a con­servative value to prevent government tax rebates, is it? 
Under health insurance reform, Americans will be ensured access to the care they need. Now children with pre­existing conditions can no longer be denied health insurance coverage. Young people may now remain on a parent’s insurance policy until their 26th birthday. Insurance companies can no longer drop people when they become sick, and can­not implement certain restrictive annual limits or lifetime caps on coverage. Adults previously uninsured because of pre-exist­ing conditions will now have access to affordable insurance through a temporary subsidized high-risk pool. 
Furthermore, everyone will be consid­ered equally and have access to coverage. Discrimination based on salary is now out­lawed. New group health plans are pro­hibited from establishing any eligibility rules for health care coverage that dis­criminates in favor of higher-waged employees. The law establishes an inde­pendent commission to advise on how best to build the health care workforce and increase the number of nurses, doctors and other professionals to meet our coun­try’s needs. It creates a new, independent appeals process that ensures consumers have access to an effective process when appealing decisions made by an insurer. Later this year, but technically in the next fiscal year, the bill increases funding for community health centers so they can treat nearly double the number of patients over the next five years. Are any of these changes bad for the nation? 
Finally, my new BFF, Alan, thanked me yesterday by pledging to continue the fight while quoting President Ronald Reagan’s farewell that referred to our nation as a shining city. Gottlieb concludes with “we have only begun to fight to bring America back again. For America, Alan.” 
For the record, BFF Alan, your hero raised taxes several times during his pres­idency after campaigning to cut personal income and business taxes. In fact, taxes during the end of Reagan’s era were as large a percent of GNP (about 19 percent) as when he took office. The 1981 Economic Recovery Act tax cut reduced revenues by $1.48 trillion by the end of fiscal 1989. But tax increases since 1982 equaled about $1.5 trillion. The Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 — at the time, the largest tax increase in American history — designed to raise $214.1 billion in just five years, took back many of the business tax sav­ings enacted the year before. 
In 1982, Reagan also supported a five­cent-per-gallon gasoline tax and higher taxes on the trucking industry totaling $5.5 billion a year. In 1983, on the recom­mendation of his Special Security Commission — chaired by the man he later elevated to the Federal Reserve Chairman, Alan Greenspan — Reagan called for, and received, Social Security tax increases of $165 billion over seven years. A year later, Reagan’s Deficit Reduction Act raised another $50 billion. I will charitably call him a pragmatic politi­cian; something Obama proves each day when he weighs his campaign promises against the nation’s best interests. 
Returning to our new “ObamaCare,” we made the correct step towards correcting our health care industry. Years from now when we look back in history, we’ll won­der what all the fuss was about … and chicken soup will still be the best remedy for a chest cold. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs direc­tor in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 14 Friday, March 26, 2010 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 

The ancient civilizations of Greece and Rome may have perished centuries ago, but their comedy lives on. The Classics Department of Notre Dame is putting on a night of such comedy tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
However, this is not going to be your typical Greco-Roman comedy; this is “Ancient Comedy with a Modern Twist,” as the event’s tagline suggests. It’s ancient comedy Notre Dame-style. 
The Muses have descended upon Our Lady’s campus. Thalia in particular, the Muse of comedy, has been seen flit­ting around West and North Quad for weeks. She has inspired the minds of members of the Department of Classics, both professors and students. Her visits to this campus have resulted in a night of creative and humorous comedy, which would make Terence, Aristophanes or Menander proud. 
The night begins with a lecture by distinguished British scholar Edith Hall. Hall specializes in the classics and cultural history. She holds a joint research chair in classics and drama at Royal Holloway, University of London, where she directs the Centre for the Reception of Greece and Rome. Notre Dame has hosted Hall a few times this semester and has benefited greatly from her expert knowledge and comic approach to lecturing. 
Following the introductory lecture, members of this semester’s Greek and Roman comedy classes will be putting on modern adaptations of classic comedies. The two classes have been working very hard for the past few weeks on these works. They have designed costumes, written scripts, made sets and arranged music, attempting to give ancient plays a mod­ern context while still retaining the origi­nal wit and charm. 
First, members of Professor Christopher Baron’s Greek Comedy class are putting on an adaptation of Aristophanes’s “Clouds.” Student writ­ers junior George Warner and seniors Mary Clare Murphy and Tom Pappas, with organizer senior Doug Schuda, have adapted the fifth century play from Athens. 


“Clouds” is the story of country bumpkin Strepsiades, who falls deeply into debt because of the frivolous actions of his son and must then seek the aid of Socrates. The students have put the play into a modern setting, and hilarity and entertainment should follow Strepsiades on every step of his 
journey. 
During the interlude between the two plays, students will showcase other talents. Acts include jugglers and other small performances. Nero himself would have a 
hard time rivaling such exhibitions of talent. 
Members of Professor Catherine Schlegel’s Roman Comedy class will then put on the final play of the night, an adaptation of Plautus’s “Menaechmi.” Student director junior Austin Holler, with the help of various student writers, has adapted this late third century/early second century B.C. play to take place at Notre Dame. 
“Menaechmi” is the story of twin brothers and mistaken identities. Plautus is famous for his slapstick com­edy and fast-moving wit which, com­bined with the inspired and comical minds of the Classics Department, should make the play one to remember. 
Comprehension of Latin or Greek is not a requirement for attendance at this event, as all plays will be in English. So come out tonight and sup­port your fellow students in their thes­pian endeavors. Who knows, perhaps Thalia and some of her sisters will be in attendance, ready to inspire you in some way. As the famous orator Marcus Tullius Cicero said, most aptly describing the event, “Hilarious est.” (“It is hilarious.”) Don’t miss out. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne@nd.edu 



By JESS SHAFFER 
Scene Writer 
And the award for this season’s newest television craze goes to ... ? Nope, Office politics are out. And Lost’s psychedelic time warp has almost met its end. Reality television is so 2000s. And young, hot, rich high schoolers are starting to lose their charm. So this year, television is going back to basics with the rebirth of family dramas and sit­coms capturing the attention of viewers. To keep things fresh and interesting, the families of this tel­evision season are a far cry from the 1950s nuclear family. Television’s newest series embrace the complications, lunacy, complexities and come­dy of modern relationships to redefine how televi­sion approaches family dynamics. 
Two series are leading the way in redefining family values this season. The first is “Parenthood,” a new NBC drama that follows the Braverman family, an extended family living in the Berkley, Calif., area. With three generations of Bravermans to delve into, “Parenthood” doles out drama in mass quantity. 
The patriarch of the family, Zeek Braverman, is hiding secret, but chronic, marital problems. The eldest son, Adam, seems to have the perfect life with a beautiful, loving wife and two wonderful children until he learns that everything may not be so perfect in paradise. His perfect daughter Haddie is hiding a secret boyfriend and pot smoking habit, while his young son Max is diagnosed with Aspergers. 
Sarah (Lauren Graham) is the stereotypical screw-up middle daughter. Sarah, along with her two delinquent teenagers, has just moved in with her parents to restart her deadbeat life in Berkley. Younger sister Julia (Erika Christensen) is the clas­sic overachieving workaholic, who may be lacking in parenting skills and is rarely present in her daughter’s life. Finally, Crosby (Dax Shepard) is the youngest, an irresponsible ladies’ man, petrified of commitment. But ready or not, Crosby has just met his five-year old son that he never knew about. 
While this drama may be based in stereotypical parenting roles, its rigorous sense of angst and con­stant supply of curveballs keeps viewers excited and sympathetic to the Braverman family. The show marks Graham’s (of “Gilmore Girls” fame) return to television. The role was a hard earned one for Graham, who beat out Helen Hunt and Maura Tierney (“ER”) to play Sarah. The rest of the class has traces of familiarity, with marginally successful movie actors, like Monica Potter (“Head Over Heels”), Christensen (“Swimfan”), and Shepard (“When In Rome”) filling their new television role comfortably. 
“Modern Family” lends a comedic approach to redefining how television shows families. If you love “Scrubs,” “Arrested Development” or “The Office,” then “Modern Family” is right up your alley. The hilarious Pritchett family similarly follows three gen­erations of the same family. But the make-up of these three interrelated families could not be more differ­ent. 
The head of the family is Jay (Ed O’Neill from “Love and Marriage”) who has recently remarried a hot, young Columbian woman and has become a reluctant father to her eccentric ten-year old. Jay’s daughter, Claire and her husband Phil are the heads of what can only be described as the nuclear family on crack; clueless, overly eager parenting mitigates constant feuds from their three kids. Jay’s son, Mitchell, lives with his gay partner Cameron, and the couple has recently adopted a daughter from Asia. 
With a diverse cast of characters to play with, the series is plain hilarious. Each character brings some­thing special and funny to the series. Perhaps the most unique facet of “Modern Family” is that the Pritchett kids pack a quick comedic punch just as forceful as their adult counterparts. With sassy 30 minute shows, “Modern Family” is definitely worth following. 
Whether your preference is the drama of “Parenthood” or the hilarity of “Modern Family,” these new series offer compelling takes on new fami­lies that will steal television viewers’ hearts. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, March 26, 2010 page 15 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 16 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 26, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 1 seed Syracuse falls to No. 4 seed Butler 
Jones scores 18 points in West Virginia victory over Washington; despite an early lead, Cornell falls to Kentucky 
the Carrier Dome in Syracuse, After leading by 12 in the first 
Associated Press 

N.Y., where West Virginia beat half, the Horizon League champi-
SALT LAKE CITY — Butler Washington in the East Regional ons were in jeopardy of getting became the latest mid-major team semifinals. run over by the Orange as they to knock off a top seed in the Most of the Orange fans were recovered from a frustrating start. NCAA tournament. probably off watching the game at But Syracuse could never get its 
Willie Veasley scored five of his a local watering hole or in front of transition game going and the 13 points during an 11-0 run a high-def TV. And Cornell and easy baskets weren’t there, thanks down the stretch, and the Bulldogs Kentucky fans didn’t really care to the Bulldogs. rallied to upset No. 1 seed that much to boo yet another sur-Syracuse 63-59 on Thursday night prising result in this NCAA tourna-West Virginia 69, Washington 56 in the West Regional semifinals for ment. Da’Sean Butler shook off a sore their 23rd straight victory. Scoop Jardine added 14 points right hand and helped West 
The fifth-seeded Bulldogs (31-4) and five assists and Andy Rautins Virginia shake off feisty fought through Syracuse’s vaunted scored 15, including a 3-pointer to Washington to reach the East zone defense and kept the Orange open the second half. That sent Regional finals. (30-5) from getting their fast the Orange on a 15-4 run that Butler kept playing after hurting break going most of the night. gave them their first lead. himself midway through the sec-
Now, after reaching the regional But the sloppy Orange couldn’t ond half and scored 14 points finals for the first time in school overcome all their turnovers, and while Kevin Jones added 18 and history, Butler is one win from the 2-3 zone that so many won-eight rebounds in leading the sec-going home to Indianapolis for its dered whether Butler could crack ond-seeded Mountaineers over the first Final Four. was no match for the Bulldogs’ 11th-seeded Huskies Thursday 
Gordon Hayward scored 17 sharp shooting in the final minutes night. points and started the celebration after Syracuse had taken a 54-50 Coach Bob Huggins’ Big East while dribbling out the clock after lead with 5:23 left. champions (30-6) won their ninth the Bulldogs forced Syracuse into Ronald Nored hit a 3-pointer to in a row and set a school record its 18th turnover. cut the deficit to one, Matt Howard for victories, surpassing the mark 
Wes Johnson had 17 points and scored on a layup to put the set by the Jerry West-led 1958-59 nine rebounds for Syracuse, the Bulldogs back ahead and then team that lost in the NCAA cham­second No. 1 seed to go down. Veasley got a fortunate bounce off pionship game. Northern Iowa stunned top-the rim and backboard before his Justin Holiday scored 14 and ranked Kansas in the second 3-pointer finally went in to put added eight rebounds for the round of the Midwest Regional last Butler up 58-54. Huskies (26-10), who were at a weekend. Veasley added a tip-in on an disadvantage after leading scorer 
There were some mild boos — offensive rebound on Butler’s next Quincy Pondexter picked up his but not as many as you’d think — possession, and the Bulldogs held third foul with 4:27 left in the first when the score was announced at on. half. Pondexter didn’t score his 
first basket until 2:30 into the sec­ond half, and finished with seven points. minutes left when Butler — the final in his first season, erasing 
Point guard Isaiah Thomas team’s senior guard and leading much of the sting of the pro-scored 13 before fouling out with scorer — fell hard to the floor and gram’s decade-long slide from 
2:41 left. The Huskies had a nine-landed on his right arm. He was the top. game win streak snapped. They down on the court for a few min-The climb back is nearly com-were trying to become only the utes, and a gasp went up around plete. Kentucky moved within fourth school seeded 11th or the Carrier Dome once everyone one win of its first Final Four lower to reach the round of eight. realized it was Butler, who’s made since winning the national 
The Mountaineers won their six game-winning shots in the championship in 1998 and will first game since point guard final seconds already this season. play second-seeded West Darryl Bryant broke a bone in his Butler, however, got up and con-Virginia on Saturday. right foot in practice on Tuesday. tinued playing, though he spent In an NCAA tournament gone And it appeared to take an entire much of the next minute checking wild with upsets, it’s 1 vs. 2 half for West Virginia to find its his hand and shaking it. with a trip to the Final Four in rhythm on offense. Indianapolis at stake. 
Trailing by as many as six points Kentucky 62, Cornell 45 All the fan adulation and late in the first half, the Kentucky avoided the latest media hype shifted to Cornell Mountaineers went ahead for big upset from the Big Red. this week after brainy Big Red good with 14:14 left in the second John Wall, DeMarcus Cousins (29-5) stunned the field with an half, when Jones hit a 3-pointer to and Patrick Patterson stopped improbable run to the round of make it 39-37. That was part of Cornell’s captivating NCAA 16. This was no Revenge of the an 11-1 spurt that was capped by tournament run, giving the top-Nerds — they proved they could Wellington Smith’s putback after seeded Wildcats a win they play with the big boys. Casey Mitchell missed a shot from Thursday night in the East The nation’s top 3-shooting the outside. Regional semifinals. team continuously misfired 
The Mountaineers improved to With much of the Carrier from beyond the arc and 11-0 at neutral sites this season Dome crowd — and the country Cornell couldn’t catch up and held their sixth straight oppo-— pulling for an upset by the against a Kentucky lineup that nent to under 59 points, a stretch 12th-seeded Ivy Leaguers, could stage a reunion at the that dates to their 54-51 win over Cornell bolted to a 10-2 lead in NBA’s 2012 Rookie Challenge. Cincinnati to open the Big East the opening minutes. After storming to two wins by tournament. But Kentucky overcame the a combined 59 points in the 
This game’s momentum turned early deficit with a swarming first two rounds, the Wildcats midway through the second half, defense, spoiling all the fun at got all they could handle when the Mountaineers avoided a Cornell’s loudest and largest against Big Red. Cornell major scare and the Huskies lost pep rally. pounced to that early lead, then their composure. John Calipari has the sliced a 17-point deficit to six 
It began with a little over nine Wildcats (35-2) in the regional late in the second half. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do I'm trying to make your kids, respect Salesman is king. ——————————————— Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, not go it alone. Notre Dame has you. Because, a father needs to As the best salesman I am king ofWANTED NOTICES LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Fenced many resources in place to assist respect his boss. And kids don't kings. 
yard, 2-car garage. Security. Near you. If you or someone you love respect the father who doesn't Oh, you say Jesus is king of kings? SUMMER SALES INTERNSHIP Find ND. 262-332-0015. needs confidential support or assis-respect the boss. Do you under-Well, what does that say to you with an energetic start up company. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING-tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at stand that line of logic? about how I think of myself. Must have strong communications, most within 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. ——————————————— ——————————————— computer, and time management 1.5 miles of campus. ——————————————— Just imagine that instead of going to Well Bigshot, 
PERSONAL 
skills. Benefits include flexible loca-For more information, visit ND's jail when you murdered someone, if you want to find your leads, tion and work schedule for 20 self-www.CampusHomesOnline.com If you or someone you care about web site: you got an ice cream cone. go to the man motivated ND students who enjoy has been sexually assaulted, we http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu who never breathes. team competition. Design experi-can help. ——————————————— If that we the case, then in the sum-——————————————— ence is not necessary but a plus. FOR RENT For more information, Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898 mer time, everyone would go Michael: Wait, what day is today? Send resume to ———————————————-visit Notre Dame's website: Homes, Apartments, Offices around killing people for the pleas-Kevin: Um, tonight is Ghost mmurtaghm@aol.com gradrentals.viewwork.com http.csap.nd.edu Affordable and Relaible ure of an ice cream cone. Whisperer. So Friday. ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, March 26, 2010 page 17 
Division I Men’s Golf Sagarin Poll 
team points 
1 Oklahoma St. 25 2 Arizona St. 24 3 Illinois 23 4 Washington 22 5 TCU 21 6 Stanford 20 7 Florida St. 19 8 Texas 18 9 Augusta St. 17 10 Florida 16 11 Tennessee 15 12 South Carolina 14 13 North Carolina St. 13 14 Southern Cal 12 15 Alabama 11 16 Oregon St. 10 17 Chattanooga 9 18 UNLV 8 19 Oregon 7 20 Texas A&M 6 21 UCLA 5 22 Texas Tech 4 23 Clemson 3 24 Georgia 2 25 Northwestern 1 
Men’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team previous 
1 Virginia 1 
2 Tennessee 2 
3 Southern Cal 5 
4 Ohio St. 3 
5 Texas 4 
6 Kentucky 8 
7 Florida 7 
8 UCLA 6 
9 Georgia 11 
10 Illinois 12 
11 California 10 
12 Stanford 9 
13 Mississippi 15 
14 Louisville 13 
15 Texas Tech 18 
16 Baylor 14 
17 Wake Forest 20 
18 Washington 22 
19 Florida St. 19 
20 Oklahoma 21 
21 Virginia Tech 16 
22 Fresno St. NR 
23 BYU 23 
24 Pepperdine NR 
25 Michigan NR 


around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
4 Tennessee vs. 2 Ohio State 
9:35 p.m., CBS 
4 Purdue vs. 1 Duke 
9:57 p.m., CBS 
MLB 


Hughes named as Yankees fifth starter 
Associated Press 

TAMPA, Fla. — Phil Hughes was selected Thursday as the New York Yankees’ fifth starter, beat­ing out Joba Chamberlain and three others. 
“It was what I set out in the spring to do,” Hughes said manager Joe Girardi announced the decision. “I grew up a starter in high school, minor leagues, even my first couple partial sea­sons in the big leagues. It was something that I really wanted and I feel like I'm ready for the challenge and ready for the season that lies ahead.” 
Girardi said Chamberlain will be given an opportunity to pitch out of the bullpen and is in the mix for the eighth-inning setup role for closer Mariano Rivera. 
Chamberlain was at the Yankees’ complex about an hour before Girardi announced the winner and said “You go with the flow. That’s what I’ve done.” 
Hughes and Chamberlain spoke briefly at Steinbrenner Field. 
“He just said ‘congrats,’” Hughes said. “I think we all trust in the front office and the coaching staff to make the right decisions. We just get paid to go out and throw the ball. There’s no bitter­ness or anything like that. We’re all pulling for the same goal, to do what we did last year. The roles might be switched but we're 
IN BRIEF 

NHL Players’ Union approves
head shot ban for 2010 season 
NEW YORK — Blindside hits to the head are a thing of the past in the NHL. 
The executive board of the players’ union voted Thursday to accept a new temporary rule that will ban hits to the head against unsuspecting players. The decision takes effect immediately, start­ing with the league’s 11 games Thursday night. 
“We believe this is the right thing to do for the game and for the safety of our players,” NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said in a statement. “The elimination of these types of hits should significantly reduce the number of injuries, including concussions, without adversely affecting the level of physical­ity in the game.” 
The rule prohibits “lateral, back-pressure or blindside hit to an oppo­nent where the head is targeted and/or the principal point of contact.” The league will have the power to review such hits and apply further discipline. 
pulling for each other.” 
Hughes made seven starts at the beginning of last sea­son, then was moved to the bullpen after Chien-Ming Wang got hurt. Chamberlain was in the rotation during the regular season, then was shifted in the postseason to the relief role, which appeared to suit him better. 
The other contenders were Sergio Mitre, Alfredo Aceves and Chad Gaudin, released earlier Thursday. 
“I felt like everyone had been given an equal oppor­tunity,” Hughes said. 
Gaudin, who turned 27 on Wednesday, will receive $725,410 in termination pay rather than the non-guaranteed $2.95 million salary he and the team agreed to in January to avoid salary arbitration. 
New York acquired Gaudin from San Diego in August for cash, and he went 2-0 with a 3.43 ERA in six starts and five relief appearances for the Yankees last season. He was on the roster for all three rounds of the postseason but appeared in just one game, a one-inning relief appearance against the Los Angeles Angels in the AL championship series. 
Also, Alex Rodriguez declined comment for the second straight day on his pending meeting with feder­al investigators regarding his possible connection to a Canadian physician. 
Rams coach denies interest in 
Eagles quarterback McNabb 
JUPITER, Fla. — St. Louis coach Steve Spagnuolo joined the chorus of denial regarding reports that the Rams are close to a deal for Philadelphia quarterback Donovan McNabb. 
Spagnuolo said Thursday while vis­iting the Cardinals spring training camp that “there’s nothing to that.” 
Spagnuolo said “at this time of the year, there are going to be all kinds of things. But no, there’s nothing there.” 
Spagnuolo was at Cardinals camp in Jupiter, Fla., following the NFL own­ers meetings in Orlando. He visited manager Tony La Russa and will watch some spring training games. 
Spagnuolo said he doesn’t put much stock in trade rumors. Those include reports Wednesday by media outlets in Philadelphia that the Rams had offered a second-round draft pick and safety Oshiomoghe Atogwe for McNabb. 
Healthy Jake Peavy prepared
to give White Sox big boost 
GLENDALE, Ariz. — For a guy who didn’t want to move, Jake Peavy has had no trouble getting comfortable with the Chicago White Sox. 
He looks around the clubhouse and sees a pitching staff with the poten­tial to dominate, particularly with a healthy Peavy boosting the starting rotation. 
Injuries limited Peavy to three starts with the White Sox after being acquired from San Diego at the July 31 non-waiver trade deadline. Now, the former National League Cy Young Award winner says he's as healthy as he’s ever been. 
The White Sox believe their staff is as good as anyone’s. Chicago has Peavy, Mark Buehrle, Gavin Floyd, John Danks and Freddy Garcia in the rotation and former All-Star J.J. Putz, Matt Thornton and Scott Linebrink setting up for closer Bobby Jenks. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, March 26, 2010 
NHL 

Maple Leafs top Thrashers in overtime, 2-1 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Atlanta moved one point closer to eighth place in the race for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference, but Thrashers coach John Anderson didn’t feel like celebrating. 
Mikhail Grabovski’s tip-in 39 seconds into overtime gave the Toronto Maple Leafs a 2-1 victory over Atlanta on Thursday night, giving the Thrashers their second straight loss. 
With Boston’s 5-3 loss to Tampa Bay in regulation, the Thrashers are two points behind the eighth-place Bruins. Anderson said the Thrashers wasted a chance against the last-place Maple Leafs to gain two points instead of set­tling for one. 
“I’m disappointed and really dis­mayed,” Anderson said. “If we play like that, we’ll be out in two or three games from now. We have to be better. We’ve got to be smarter. We have to play harder. 
We’ve got to show that we want it. We can’t let teams like this just hang around and hang around.” 
Toronto rookie Jonas Gustavsson stopped 19 shots for his sixth straight win. 
Atlanta’s Ondrej Pavelec, who stopped 28 shots, was beaten on the decisive play when Grabovski punched in a shot by Dion Phaneuf. 
The Maple Leafs’ scoring oppor­tunity came after the Thrashers failed to clear the puck from their zone. Toronto’s Francois Beauchemin battled Atlanta’s Tobias Enstrom for the puck on the boards. Atlanta’s Rich Peverley came away with possession but cleared the puck to Phaneuf. 
That was the break the Maple Leafs needed. 
“I got a good pass from Phaneuf,” Grabovski said. “Something got in my head in overtime.” 
Toronto coach Ron Wilson said he had a hunch — or at least a hope — Grabovski would deliver in overtime. 
Wilson said he told one of his assistants “’I hope Grabbo wakes up out there’ and it wasn’t 10 sec­onds later he scored the game-winner.” 
Wilson said he could sense the Thrashers were pressing. 
“We were playing a team that really needed the points, and I think they were probably doing a little bit of scoreboard watching there,” Wilson said. 
NFL 

Receiver Bryant hopes for best in NFL Draft 

Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Dez Bryant wants people to remem­ber that he is a play-making receiver who was on the cover of Sports Illustrated after Oklahoma State beat Georgia in last season’s opener. 
He is, however, painfully aware that many people remember him as the guy who he lied to the NCAA when asked about his relationship with for­mer NFL star Deion Sanders and subsequently had to sit out the Cowboys’ final 10 games of the season after being suspend­ed. 
“I’m the type of person, I love to make people smile,” he said. “I don’t want people to get the wrong idea about me. ... Dez Bryant is a good person, down to earth, very humble, very pas­sionate for the game.” 
Bryant has apologized for the incident and has spent the last three months preparing for the NFL draft, where he is expected to be picked in the first round on April 22. And he can’t wait. 
Bryant started a long road of preparing for the draft by spending a week training in Tampa, Fla., in November, and another week in December. He took a break, but resumed workouts in January to get ready for the NFL combine. Then he injured a hamstring — “All I did was just tweak it,” he said — and skipped the high-profile workouts in Indianapolis. 
He’s since resumed training in New Orleans, working every day for three to four hours at a time “like it’s the offseason. I like the hard workouts, being pushed during the workouts. We do a lot of aggressive things.” 
But he’s still not performed for the people whose opinion counts the most toward his pro­fessional future — NFL scouts. 
Oklahoma State held its pro day for scouts on March 10, but Bryant skipped it, citing the hamstring injury. He said he’d hold his own workout in his hometown of Lufkin, Texas, next week — a decision didn’t sit well with at least one scout. 
“I knew he wasn’t going to be here, but they have other play­ers here other than Dez Bryant,” Pittsburgh Steelers scout Joe Greene said. “I’m sure he’s realizing that the show keeps going on without him.” 
Greene went on to say he wouldn’t be attending Bryant’s workout: “I haven’t been to Lufkin in all of my years in Texas, and I don’t plan to go to Lufkin any time soon.” 
Told of Greene’s comments, Bryant replied that “there’s nothing I can say about that. If they don’t want to see me work out, they don’t have to.” 
But Bryant also defended his decision to hold off working out for scouts until March 30. 
“I just needed to be 100 per­cent for sure,” he said. “The scouts haven’t seen me in a long time. Whenever they do see me, I want to be ready to go.” 
Bryant has heard the whis­pers that he delayed the work­outs because he’s out of shape or that his troubles with the NCAA might suggest future problems. The 6-foot-2 Bryant says he’s at 220 pounds — he was at 225 at the combine — and maintains that he simply made a mistake in his dealings with the NCAA, and “it’s all about how you handle the mis­takes.” 
His Oklahoma State team­mates have his back. 
“I really don’t pay attention to the negative things,” said offen­sive tackle Russell Okung, who, like Bryant, is expected to be a first-round draft pick. “He’s a great teammate. He’s always been here for us and I love him to death.” 


Friday, March 26, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NHL 

Stamkos, Szczechura lead Tampa over Boston 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Steve Stamkos scored twice, tying him for the NHL lead with 45 goals, and Paul Szczechura also had a pair of goals to lead the Tampa Bay Lightning to a 5-3 victory over the Boston Bruins on Thursday night. 
Antero Niittymaki stopped 47 shots for the 500th victory in Tampa Bay franchise history. The Lightning have won two straight since losing five straight — and 12 of 14 — to fall to the brink of elimination in the Eastern Conference playoff race. 
Nittymaki stopped 19 shots in the third period as Boston tried furiously but belatedly to come back from a three-goal deficit. 
Tuukka Rask made 13 saves for Boston, which dropped to 15-15­6 at home, winning just two of its last 14 home games. Since the Winter Classic at Fenway Park, the Bruins had not scored three regulation goals at home before Thursday. 
Stamkos scored just 49 seconds into the game and then added another with 26 seconds remain­ing in the second period to make it 4-2 and give him 45 for the sea­son. That ties Washington’s Alexander Ovechkin and Pittsburgh’s Sidney Crosby for the NHL lead. 
The Bruins pulled Rask on a power play in the final minute for a 6-on-4 advantage but couldn’t get off a shot. 
Szczechura scored his fourth of the season in the second period and his fifth in the third. Martin St. Louis also scored for the Lightning, who opened the night in 12th place but closed within six points of eighth-place Boston with eight games left. 
Zdeno Chara, Johnny Boychuk and Mark Recchi scored for Boston, which maintained a three-point lead over ninth-place Atlanta, a 2-1 overtime loser to Toronto on Thursday night. It was Chara’s first goal in 16 games, and it cut the deficit to 2­1 with 27 seconds left in the first period 
But the Lightning capitalized on another turnover in the Boston end when Szczechura got the puck between the circles and put it past Rask to make it 3-1 at the 
6:50 mark of the second. Boychuk made it a one-goal game midway through the second, but Stamkos scored on a slapshot to extend the lead again. 


NBA 
Arenas’ sentencing scheduled for Friday 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — When Gilbert Arenas appeared at a charity event a few weeks ago, no amount of smiles and hugs could hide the underly­ing tension surrounding the next big date on his calendar. 
“So that’s what everybody’s waiting for,” Arenas said. “March 26, huh?” 
The fateful date has arrived. 
The Washington Wizards three-time All -Star point guard will be sentenced Friday in D.C. Superior Court on one felony count of violat­ing the District of Columbia’s strict gun laws. Judge Robert 
E. Morin will decide whether Arenas does jail time or gets probation. 
The prosecution and defense teams stated their cases earlier this week in voluminous filings. It’s all far beyond anything Arenas imagined on that December morning when he says he brought four guns to the lock­er room to play a prank on a teammate. 
Prosecutors want Arenas to go to jail for at least three months. They point out that he lied repeatedly about why the guns were in the locker room, that he tried to cover up what happened, that he displayed a cavalier attitude about the whole affair, that he knew bringing guns into D.C. was illegal, and that he has a prior gun conviction. 
“If any other individual — without the fame, power, and the wealth of this defendant 
— brought four firearms into Washington, D.C., for the pur­pose of a similar confronta­tion, fabricated a story to conceal that confrontation, provided convenient explana­tions in an attempt to mitigate his conduct that were proved false, joked about the incident to large groups, and stated that he did nothing wrong and felt no remorse, the gov­ernment would seek their incarceration, and the Court would almost certainly give it,” wrote Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Kavanaugh. 
Arenas’ lawyers are asking for probation and community service, arguing that he was playing a misguided joke with no intention to harm anybody. They point out that the guns were unloaded, that Arenas’ lighthearted comments about the incident were misinter­preted, and that he’s a good role model who goes beyond the call of duty when it comes to community service. They add that he was confused about D.C.’s gun laws, and that he’s already been severe­ly punished through humilia­tion and the loss of tens of millions of dollars from can­celed endorsements and his suspension without pay for the rest of the NBA season. 
“The whole world has watched as a man who brought four unloaded guns into the District of Columbia was required to accept a felony plea, suffer great per­sonal and professional collat­eral consequences, register as a ‘gun offender,’ submit to court supervision, and face public scorn,” the lawyers wrote. “This sad saga has sent a strong message to any and all who might consider 
b r i n g i ng  g u n s  i n t o  th e  
District.”  
T he  m a x i m u m  t e r m  f o r  

Arenas’ crime is five years. The sentencing guidelines for someone with his record call for 6-24 months, although those guidelines also allow for probation. 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, March 26, 2010 
NHL 

Howard holds lofty goals for Red Wings 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Goaltender Jimmy Howard has a shot to be the first Detroit Red Wings player in four-plus decades to win the Calder Trophy as the best rookie in the NHL. 
Howard, though, is more inter­ested in helping the storied fran­chise extend the longest streak in sports with a 19th straight trip to the postseason. 
“First and foremost here, it’s about getting into the playoffs,” he said. “I’m not saying I wouldn’t like to win it because I definitely would love to win the Calder, but it’s secondary.” 
Howard is making quite a case for himself to be the Red Wings’ first rookie of the year winner since Roger Crozier in 1965. He is ranked among the NHL’s top 10 in victories, goals-against average 
(2.29) and save percentage (.924) after winning his 30th game on Wednesday against the St. Louis Blues. 
If Howard finishes in the top 10 in those categories, he will join a list of 10 rookies who have pulled off the feat since the 1982-83 sea­son when save percentage became a league stat, according to STATS LLC. Four of the 10 won the Calder, including New Jersey’s Martin Brodeur in 1994 and Ed Belfour in Chicago in 1991. 
Howard has been a key reason Detroit will be in a position to pad its lead for the final spot in the Western Conference playoffs Friday night — his 26th birthday 
— at home against Minnesota. 
“He has helped keep us in the race,” general manager Ken Holland said. 
Detroit has surged from being out of the race to having a realistic shot to finish as high as fifth in the conference, winning six of its last seven and going on a 9-2-1 streak since the Olympic break. 
Howard said it has simply been fun. 
“We’ve been playing playoff hockey for a while here, having to get points every single night,” Howard said. 
Detroit coach Mike Babcock said Howard will be in net against the Wild, making that his 21st straight. The last Red Wings rook­ie goalie to start that many games in a row was Roy Edwards, when he had 23 straight during the 1967-68 season. 
“When you’re a kid, you’re fresh and it’s your first year in the league, you just want to play,” Babcock said. “And when you’re playing well, you’re not thinking and you just want to get in the net.” 
Howard played in only one game for Detroit last season, four the previous year and four games during the 2005-06 sea­son. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Texas A&M coach will plead guilty to charges 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Texas — Former NFL quarterback Ryan Leaf has agreed to plead guilty in his Texas drug and burglary case in exchange for 10 years of proba­tion, attorneys in the case said Thursday. 
Leaf’s attorney, Bill Kelly, said his client has agreed to plead guilty to seven counts of obtain­ing a controlled substance by fraud and one count of delivery of a simulated controlled sub­stance. Leaf would be on proba­tion for 10 years and a burglary charge would be dropped. 
A judge must approve the deal, which includes Leaf pay­ing a $20,000 fine, Kelly said. 
Leaf, who is living in Canada, was a star at Washington State but a bust during his four-year NFL career. He coached quar­terbacks at West Texas A&M in Canyon, where the indictment was returned last May. 
Leaf was accused of present­ing an incomplete medical his­tory to several physicians between January 2008 and September 2008 to get or try to obtain the painkiller Hydrocodone. He also allegedly forced his way into a Canyon apartment in October 2008 and stole Hydrocodone that had been prescribed to an injured football player. 
Randall County District Attorney James Farren said he decided to drop the burglary charge after receiving a letter from the victim, a player Leaf coached at West Texas A&M, about three weeks ago. 
“He’s not happy about being a key factor in a criminal prose­cution of his former coach,” Farren said. “I suspect that he and most of the young men Ryan Leaf worked with ... want him to get some counseling and help. They care about him.” 
It was important to get the burglary charge dropped in the deal, Kelly said. 
“It would have a very negative impact and might keep Ryan from going back to Canada because of the laws that are applicable in Canada,” he said. “We need to get this behind him and get him on his way.” 
Farren said a “pattern” of abusing prescription drugs will lead him to include counseling and drug testing in probation terms he’ll recommend to the judge. 
If the deal is approved and Leaf successfully completes his probation there will be no con­victions on his record; a record of his arrest would remain. If Leaf fails to meet the terms of his probation, he could face jail time, Farren said. 
“If I were Mr. Leaf I’d want to make sure I can do this, that I can successfully complete this,” he said. “He has a lot of expo­sure. “It could end up being a long time” in prison. 
Leaf resigned in November 2008 in the middle of his third season as quarterbacks coach. Kelly said Leaf is “doing OK” and believes he is selling vaca­tion packages to corporate clients at a resort. 


Friday, March 26, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
ND MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish prepare for road match against Wildcats 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
After falling short of their desired finish in the Blue Gray National Classic in Alabama last weekend, the No. 36 Irish will continue their nine-match road swing to take to the courts Saturday to face No. 45 Northwestern in Evanston, Ill. 
“We expect a tough match from Northwestern,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “They have similar balance and are extremely well coached. “ 
Although Notre Dame (9-8) did not make it to the final round of its last tournament, overall the weekend was a success, marked by a significant milestone for the experienced Bayliss. The victory against Middle Tennessee State in the opening round marked his 700th career win as head coach to come out of the weekend 701­306-1 in 41 seasons (23 at Notre Dame). 
“Accumulating 700 wins is more about having been doing this for a long time than any­thing,” Bayliss said. “There are several other active coaches who have done this, so it isn't like I broke any kind of record. Certainly being at Notre Dame has given me the opportunity to play on the biggest stage and to do things like playing for the national championship on the last day of the season, beat teams ranked No. 1 at that time, etc.” 
What does make reaching this record worthwhile for Bayliss is the individuals who helped him along the way. 


“What reaching such a mile­stone does is to make one sit back and think about all of the players, assistants, and administrators who helped make this possible.,” Bayliss said. “[A]nd in that way it makes everything seem pretty special.” 
While Bayliss and his team were excited to celebrate and kept up their winning ways through the first two rounds of the tournament, beating No. 27 Fresno State in the second round. 
“The weekend was energizing for us, particularly in beating a very good Fresno State team that has spent a lot of time in the top 20,” Bayliss said. “We are compet­ing better now. Our depth is a real strength and our doubles is begin­ning to take shape and become a strength.” 
The Irish doubles pairs have been one of the team’s most dependable assets this season. Now that they have found more harmonious and powerful pair­ings, Notre Dame will look even more to its doubles players to play a role in their upcoming matches, Bayliss said. 
Bayliss also said he was excited to see the strength in the lower singles lineup in Alabama last weekend. While the top two posi­tions have been largely consistent, often played by sophomore Casey Watt and junior Stephen Havens, Notre Dame’s other singles play­ers have rotated earlier this sea­son. Bayliss said he is counting on last weekend’s singles strength to continue. 
“Because most of the starters are young [everyone who played in the Blue Gray returns next year] we see ups and downs, but a sense of consistency is begin­ning to form,” Bayliss said. 
The Irish will face the Wildcats at 1 p.m. Saturday at the Combe Indoor Tennis Center in Evanston, Ill. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
ND MEN’S GOLF 
Notre Dame prepares for short course play 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame looks to continue its recent success as it travels to Delray Beach, Fla., to participate in the Spring Break champi­onship. 
The Irish enter the tournament on a hot streak after they cap­tured first place in the Brandon Dunes championship two weeks ago. The poise the Notre Dame golfers showed during the Brandon Dunes championship displayed their patience as they battled fierce weather conditions and should pay big dividends for the team this weekend. 
The extra practice time the past two weeks has allowed the Irish to look at different aspects of the game in which they can improve before the weekend. Also, with the last tournament at Bandon Dunes, the Irish were able to prove that they could play on a short course. 
In the win at Brandon Dunes, the Irish proved they could play on a short course. The Spring Break Championship will be the second shortest course of the sea­son for Notre Dame, only longer than Brandon Dunes. 
Despite the team’s recent suc­cess on a short course, the Irish will face some formidable oppo­nents in the upcoming tourna­ment. The tournament will con­sist of 16 teams, seven of which are among the top 100 teams in the nation. 
After the Spring Break champi­onship, the Irish will head to the Big East championships. 
The three-round Spring Break championship begins Friday and concludes Sunday. 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, March 26, 2010 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Notre Dame heads outdoors out west 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish head out to the West Coast to open their out­door season this weekend. 
Notre Dame will send run­ners to both the Arizona State Invitational and the Stanford Invitational. 
The Irish ended the indoor season on a high note, with the men winning the Big East indoor championship, and then the men and women sending a total of six runners to the NCAA Indoor National Championships. 
Seniors Joanna Schultz and Jack Howard advanced to the preliminaries, and Howard took seventh in the men’s 800­meter in the finals to be named All-American. Now the team will face a different atmos­phere from the indoor arena. 
“We finished indoors with a lot of momentum, so hopefully we can carry that over into outdoors,” Howard said. “The competition always steps it up a notch as we transition out­doors, but with the way the indoor season went for our team, we will be ready.” 
Last year the Irish had four athletes compete in the NCAA Outdoor National Championships. All-American senior Jaclyn Espinoza took third in the women’s discus throw, junior Justin Schneider took 20th in the men’s decathlon, Schultz took 26th in the women’s 400-meter and senior Matt Schipper took ninth in the preliminary men’s pole vault last year. The team is looking to send even more athletes this year. 
Senior distance runner Jake Walker barely missed the pre­liminaries at the indoor cham­pionships, as his time qualified him provisionally, but did not hold up against this year’s tal­ented field in the 5,000-meter run. 
“This is probably my last col­legiate season so I am looking to hit some big PRs in outdoor, qualify for nationals and earn All-American honors,” Walker said. “I hope to break 28:50 in the [10,000-meters] and 13:50 in the [5,000-meters] during outdoor.” 
The Arizona State Invitational will take place at Joe Sellah Track in the Sun Nagel Stadium in Tempe, Ariz., where the teams will compete against 18 other schools from across the country. Friday’s only event is the hammer throw at 1 p.m., with Saturday beginning with field events at 10 a.m. and running events at 4 p.m. 
The Stanford Invitational will take place at Cobb Track and Angell Field in Palo Alto, Calif., beginning Friday at 9 a.m. with field events and 11 a.m. with track events. Saturday will open at 9 a.m. with the hammer throw, followed by running events at 12:10 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
NBA 

Wade returns home to lead Heat over Chicago 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Dwyane Wade got a warm reception when he was introduced before the game. It was a Chicago crowd’s way of say­ing welcome home to a native son who’s a star and could become a major free agent. 
Wade doesn’t always score big at the United Center and Thursday night he didn’t have to. 
His game was well-rounded, even if he did score only 12 points, as his Miami Heat rolled over the Chicago Bulls 103-74 in one of the most lopsided games of the season for either team. 
“I was laying in bed today and I was wondering why I don’t play good here like I play other places on the road,” Wade said. 
“I decided I play too fast here. I decided to come out and play like I normally play, with a lot of patience. … My game plan going out there was to get my team­mates involved. I knew they were going to bring two at me and pack the paint a little bit. So I decided to make sure to get my team­mates involved and it opened things up.” 
In 29 minutes, Wade had 10 assists and five rebounds. He entered averaging 26.5 points. Jermaine O’Neal scored 24 points, shooting 9 of 14 against a soft Chicago defense, while Michael Beasley scored 15 and Udonis Haslem 14. 
Pushing for a better playoff seeding, Miami’s third straight vic­tory and ninth in 12 games lifted the Heat into the No. 6 slot in the Eastern Conference, a half game ahead of idle Charlotte. 
“One of our best road wins of the season,” Wade said. 
“Right now we’re playing some of our best basketball. March is a great time of the year for that. Everyone is understanding and settling into their role now.” 
The Bulls have lost 11 of 13, including a 10-game losing streak, and are in ninth place in the East. 
“No good answer for anything,” Bulls coach Vinny Del Negro said of the loss. “They just attacked us with O’Neal and Beasley. … It’s disappointing. We didn’t have enough fight in us tonight.” 
Hakim Warrick led the Bulls with 14 points while Taj Gibson and Derrick Rose had 12 apiece. 
Wade had eight first-half points, hitting a jumper just before the buzzer to give the Heat a 63-33 lead as the boos poured down on the home team at the United Center. 
Miami shot 60.5 percent in the first half, while the Bulls made only 28 percent. Miami finished the game at 52 percent with many easy shots against a listless Chicago defense. 
NFL 
Reid sets asking price for McNabb 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Teams interested in acquiring Donovan McNabb will have to part with a high draft pick to get him. 
A person familiar with trade discussions involving McNabb told the Associated Press the Philadelphia Eagles will only consider a deal for the six-time Pro Bowl quarterback if it includes a pick among the top 42 in next month’s NFL draft. 
The person spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity Thursday because the team doesn’t comment on potential trades. 
After months of saying McNabb would return for another year, Eagles coach Andy Reid acknowledged Wednesday he was listening to offers for McNabb, Kevin Kolb and Michael Vick. 
Oakland, Buffalo and St. Louis are considered to be most interested in McNabb. Each team has two picks in the top 42. 
It’s unlikely any of those teams would give up a first-round pick for McNabb. The Rams have the first overall selection, the Raiders pick eighth and the Bills are ninth. In the second round, however, the Rams have the 33rd pick, Raiders are 39th and Bills are 41st. 
A rumored deal that would’ve sent McNabb to St. 
Louis for the 33rd pick and safety Oshiomoghe Atogwe was strongly denied by several Rams officials, including coach Steve Spagnuolo. 
The Raiders are now consid­ered the front-runner for McNabb if a deal is made. It’s still possible the Eagles would accept a pick outside the top 42 if a team sweetened the offer with other picks and/or players. 
McNabb is expendable because he’s entering the final season of his contract and Kolb is considered the quarter­back of the future. The 33­year-old McNabb has led Philadelphia to five NFC cham­pionship games in 11 seasons, winning one NFC title. 


Friday, March 26, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 page 24 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, March 26, 2010 
Schrage 
continued from page 28 
included losses to No. 14 Miami, No. 12 Oklahoma and No. 9 Florida. 
But its record is not indica­tive of the team that will take the field on Friday. South sore shoulder, a major setback to an already depleted rota­tion. 
Dupra has been the lone consistent starter for the Irish, leading the team in wins, innings pitched (28.1) and strikeouts (21). However, laps­es on defense have extended a number of opponent rallies and put addi ­tional pressure 

Florida has lost If we continue to play on the pitchers. eight games by “If we contin­
poor defense and
two runs or ue to play poor less, and has walk people, it’s very defense and won five of its tough to overcome.” walk people, last six games. it’s very tough 
“They’ve got to overcome,” 
Dave Schrage 
a veteran line-Schrage said. 
Irish coach
up back,” “If we’re going 

Schrage said. “We’re going to see three good arms on the mound from them, and they’re pretty tough at home. They’ve got a little momentum here lately.” 
Junior captain Brian Dupra (2-1) will make the start in one, followed by sophomore Steve Sabatino (1-2) and sen­ior Eric Maust (0-1) in games two and three. Junior ace Cole Johnson has been sidelined for the last two weeks with a 
Frilling 
continued from page 28 
challenge for sophomores Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews and freshman Chrissie McGaffigan, Notre Dame’s top three players in singles. Louderback said the top singles players are used to stiff competition. 
“The kids at the top of the lineup know every match will be a tough one,” Louderback said. “They know they will be facing a good player. Our kids know that.” 
The challenge at the top of the lineup will continue for Frilling against the Shockers as she will face off against sophomore Luftiana to do anything 
in our confer­ence and win our conference, we’ve got to cut down on the walks, cut down on the defen­sive mistakes, and then we’ve got to start knocking some people in with two outs.” 
Notre Dame looks to right the ship in Tampa, Fla., Friday at 7 p.m., Saturday at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Budiharto, ranked No. 34 in the country. Wichita State also lines up the No. 22 dou­bles team in their top doubles slot. Louderback stressed the need for his doubles teams to adjust to senior Kali Krisik’s uncertainty with a recent injury. 
“She’s been in and out,” Louderback said. “We haven’t had a chance to have every­one play together. In practice we’ve had different combina­tions practicing for a while. That should help us at tour­nament time.” 
The Irish will look to keep up the intensity against TCU at 10 a.m. Saturday and Wichita State at noon Sunday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

FENCING 

Irish in second after day one of championships 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
With the first day of the NCAA finals behind it, No. 1 Notre Dame stands in second place among a field of the nation’s top 20 programs. 
Notre Dame trails No. 5 St. John’s by one point, 58-57. Defending champion and No. 2 Penn State is in third, trailing the Irish by three points. 
“We have a very strong field and there’s a lot of fighting and drama going on,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “We will fight the next three days but they are still dangerous and we will have to focus attention on Penn State, we have some very important matches tomorrow.” 
Thursday was the first day of the women’s competition and already several fencers have taken leadership roles by setting a standard of excellence in their performance. Junior Sarah Borrman went 12-2 in the sabre while sisters sophomore Courtney Hurley and senior Kelly Hurley put up a character­istic dominant showing in the epee. 
Sophomore Darsie Malynn posted eight wins in her first appearance in the NCAA Championship. The young fight­er continues to show promise as a rising star on the experienced Irish squad. 
“[Malynn] is showing great ambition and it is good learning for next year,” Bednarski said. 
The Irish will return to the strips today. 
“It was a long day a lot of bouts, a lot of energy and little time to recover, but they are tak­ing their time now to be ready for their finish,” Bednarksi said. 
The team remains in high spirits going into the end of com­petition, the day for which they have spent countless hours training and competing for the last year, Bednarski said. 
“We are fighting, we want to win and we will try to do our best and it will take time,” he said. “We have three more days of competition ahead of us.” 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
Coyne 
continued from page 28 
over unnecessarily. It’s just really frustrating.” 
The Irish will begin the Big East schedule with Louisville and need to play with even more urgency in conference play. The conference is filled with ranked teams, including Georgetown, Syracuse, Loyola (MD) and Rutgers, in addition to the Irish. Coyne stressed the importance of getting off to a good start in the Big East. 
“This is a huge game for us,” Coyne said. “We need to ensure that we bounce back from Vanderbilt and have a good game here.” 
Louisville, which began conference play in lacrosse in 2009, received votes in the latest coaches poll and, like the Irish, carry a 4-2 record into the contest. The Cardinals also lost to Vanderbilt, 20-13, in their last game. 
“They’re still up and com­ing because they’re a rela­tively new program,” Coyne said. “They continue to evolve from year to year, and games. The Cardinals they’ll be a much different defense is centered around team from the one we saw freshman goalie Danielle last year. I think we match up Pawliw who boasts a .439 
really well  save  percentage  
with them.  comi n g into the  
We can def-i n i t e l y attack their defense.”  “We’re still proving who we are as a team, and I haven’t lost my  g ame. N o tr e Dam e ’s o wn freshman goalie, Ellie Hilling, has  
T  h  e  confdence in our  bee n  st ea d ily  
C a r d i n a l s ar e le d b y  ability to win.”  developing into a star, earning the  
j  u  n  i  o r  Bi g  Eas t  
attack and  Tracy Coyne  Defensive Player  
p r e s e a s o n  Irish coach  o f  t he  Wee k  
all-Big East  awa rd  f or  th e  
s e l e c t i o n  week e nd ing  on  
B e r g a n  March 22. Coyne  

Foley, who has notched 27 said she is pleased with her goals on the year in just six defense, and believes that the 
team can keep winning if they sustain a strong effort for a full 60 minutes. 
“If we come out and play like we did against Vanderbilt in the opening minutes we’ll be fine,” Coyne said. “We’re still proving who we are as a team, and I haven’t lost my confidence in our ability to win. We just have to put together a com­plete effort.” 
Notre Dame will face off against Louisville Saturday at 3 p.m. as the Irish look to get their first win at the new Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

Friday, March 26, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 25 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish head to Texas to face top teams 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame women’s golf team hopes to continue its improvement this season as they travel to Austin, Texas for the Betsy Rawls Longhorn Invitational at the University of Texas Golf Club March 26-28. 
Though the Irish are well accustomed to playing with the nation’s best, this week­end’s tournament will feature a particularly challenging field with eight of the top-25 ranked teams including No. 1 UCLA. 
There will be a total of 18 teams competing in the tour­nament hosted by the University of Texas. 
The Irish will be sending a veteran lineup to the links, led by seniors Annie Brophy and Kristin Wetzel. They will be accompanied by juniors Katie Conway and So-Hyun Park, as well as sophomore Becca Huffer. 
Huffer is looking to follow up a clutch performance at the LSU Tiger/Wave Classic March 12 -14 where she turned in the best overall score on the team and showed consistency each day 
of competition for a 15th place finish. 
This weekend will be the team’s fourth consecutive appearance in the annual event, giving the team the advantage of experience on a difficult course. 
The Irish, who have had excellent individual success this year have been hard at work perfecting their game 
on the course during the recent mild weather in Notre Dame, and will be aiming to post a solid cumulative per­formance as the postseason approaches. 
After they return Sunday, the Irish will have 12 days to prepare for their final tour­nament before the Big East championship, the Sun Trust Lady Gator Invitational in Gainesville, Fla. April 10-11. 



page 26 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, March 26, 2010 
Diggins 
continued from page 28 
months ago.” 
The Sweet 16 berth comes on the heels of an 84-66 win over No. 10-seed Vermont (27-7) at the Purcell Pavilion Tuesday. The Irish fell behind the Catamounts early, but played an aggressive defense in the contest and won the turnover battle 25-14, helping them to get back in the game. 
“At this point in the NCAA Tournament it’s going to be defense and rebounding, and that’s how you win,” McGraw said. “After it was 20-10 I thought we just did an excellent job.” 
Oklahoma defeated Arkansas-Little Rock 60-44 Tuesday to make the Sweet 16. 
When Notre Dame played Oklahoma in the fall, freshman guard Skylar Diggins had one of her first breakout performances of her young career, scoring 16 points and leading the Irish to the victory. 
Notre Dame was down 51-48 in that contest with 12:53 to go, but the Irish used an impressive defensive effort to hold Oklahoma to 0-of-8 shooting and go on a 20­0 run that sealed the victory. 
Diggins will look to repeat that performance in her second match-up with Oklahoma, as she is hot after a career performance against Vermont. 
Diggins scored a career-high 31 points and grabbed seven steals against the Catamounts. The guard leads the team with 13.9 points and nearly 2.5 steals per game. 
Oklahoma boasts their own star in junior guard Danielle Robinson, who is posting 16.7 points, 5.2 assists and 1.9 steals per game. The Sooners are also a very bal­anced team, with five players averaging double-digit scoring. 
In what appears to be a very even match, the Irish will rely on the experience of senior guards Lindsay Schrader, Melissa Lechlitner and Ashley Barlow as well as the defensive spark junior forwards Becca Bruszewski and Devereaux Peters provide off the bench. 
The Irish plan to utilize that senior leadership and defensive prowess to stop the Sooners’ potent attack, mixing in man-to­man press and zone defenses, McGraw said. 
“We want to play a little bit of everything. They really have an excellent point guard in Danielle Robinson, she’s really fast and will challenge our press,” she said. 
The winner of this game will advance to face the winner of the match-up between No. 1-seed Nebraska and No. 4-seed Kentucky. 
The Irish and Sooners tip off at 
7:34 p.m. Sunday in Kansas City, Mo., with the Cornhuskers and Wildcats following at 10:04 p.m. 
Note: 
 Freshman guard Skylar Diggins and senior guard Lindsay Schrader have been named final­ists for the State Farm Coaches’ All-America Team, the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association announced Thursday. The group includes 40 players, 10 of whom will be given the All-America honor. Notre Dame is one of just six schools to have multiple play­ers as finalists. 
The State Farm Coaches’ All-America Team will be announced April 3 in San Antonio, Texas between open practices for the Final Four. All finalists not chosen will be named State Farm Coaches’ All-America Honorable Mentions. 
“What makes this even more special is that Skylar and Lindsay are such high-quality people and tremendous representatives of not only our program, but the entire University of Notre Dame,” McGraw said in a press release Thursday. “We couldn’t be happi­er for their success and are excit­ed to see what lies ahead for both of them.” 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Big East 
continued from page 28 
[region] is where most of our players come from, so it’s a nice thing that our players will get to play games back where they’re from.” 
The conference slate begins with a visit from Rutgers (4­2), who boasts a dangerous attack led by Tewaaraton Trophy candidate senior mid­fielder Justin Pennington, an all-conference preseason selection. 
The Irish (5-2) will have to defend an offense averaging nearly 12 goals a game while scoring on a defense allowing fewer than seven scores per contest. The primary concern for the Irish, however, is that the Rutgers attack is not limit­ed to Pennington alone, but is a team with a variety of scor­ers. 
“They’ve got a lot of guys offensively who can hurt you,” Corrigan said. “They’re a team that can put a lot of pressure on you at the end of the field.” 
If the Irish are successful Saturday, it will mark their third consecutive win in a sea­son that has been marked by streaks; the squad opened the campaign with a three straight victories, then dropped two tight contests over spring break before returning home and opening Arlotta Stadium with a pair of wins. Corrigan said he believes his team has learned the value of focusing on the game at hand. 
“We’ve been up, we’ve been down, we’re back up again,” he said. “We’ve got to concen­trate on one game at a time, and we can’t worry about any­thing else.” 
The tangle with the Scarlet Knights will require Notre Dame to focus on fundamen­tals that have been lacking at times previously this season. 
“We have to get back to playing good, solid, smart lacrosse,” Corrigan said. 
With a week since their last game, the Irish have had plen­ty of time to prepare to do so and come away with a victory in their first conference game. 
“It’s a great conference to be a part of, and we’re very excited to begin Big East play,” Corrigan said. 
The Big East era of Notre Dame lacrosse begins against Rutgers Saturday at noon in Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  
39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  
58  59  

Friday, March 26, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Dress down 1 Male gopher 33 Cat's-eye 10 People travel relatives 

only one way on 34 Metaphor for a them middle-class 15 “The Broken American Tower” poet 37 Host of a self­16 The senior titled 1990s talk Saarinen show 17 “Beautiful” things 38 Las ___ Filipinasin a 1951 hit 39 Ancient song Macedonian 18 See 7-Down capital 19 Orlando's ___ 40 Abbr. at the top Arena of a memo 
20 Capital largely 41 Abbr. for the surrounded by Prince of Wales high clay walls 
44 Hair salon 22 Sportscaster activityCollinsworth 
46 New range 23 Uncle ___ rover? 
24 City at the 47 Freedom fighter, mouth of the Fox for short? River 
48 Their faces have 26 They make spotscents. 
51 Secretary on27 Cards “Hogan's 
31 Homage Heroes” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


52 Weapon forWonder Woman 
54 When women may get in forless 
56 Put through thesystem?
57 Rush hour, toradio programmers
58 Some flying saucers 59 Fleet type 
Down 
1 “Man alive!” 2 One with growing concerns 3 Displaysdispleasure4 “___ mypleasure”
5 Big Apple sch. 
6 Ahead of, in verse 7 Parts of planesin which to put18-Across 8 First to be called up9 Answerable with 
a nod or a shake 
10 Sherlock 
11 They havechocolate relatives 
12 Overhead corridor 
13 Need for checking peopleout 
14 Appliescarelessly
21 Blitzkrieg
25 Ewing player
27 Twist alternative 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Victor Fleming  
28 OregonShakespeareFestival locale 29 Former AT&T rival 30 Crayola color in a 64-crayon box32 Encouragingstatement start 34 Kind of appointment  35 Like most bars 36 U.S.N. craft 37 Downgrades, e.g. 41 “Whoa!” 42 “___ Sans-Gêne” (Sardouplay) 43 Offer? 45 Brightens  46 Sock deliverers 49 Complaint 50 Lou Grant's ex on “The MaryTyler MooreShow” 51 Not brush off 53 FAQ part: Abbr. 55 It may be addedto excess  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, March 26, 2010 page 28 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Sooner rematch 
Irish face Oklahoma in third round of NCAA 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 2-seed Irish will travel to Kansas City, Mo., for their eighth Sweet 16 appearance in the past 14 seasons and a matchup with No. 3-seed Oklahoma. Notre Dame (29-5) defeated Oklahoma (25-10) on Nov. 28 in the Paradise Jam in the 
U.S. Virgin Islands, 81-71, and will look to repeat that performance Sunday. 

“We can look back at the film and see the differences in what we did then and how we’re play­ing now,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “It’s nice to have that film, but obviously we’re both different teams than we were four PAT COVENY/The Observer 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins celebrates with the crowd during Notre Dame’s 84-66 victory over see DIGGINS/page 26 Vermont in the second round of the NCAA Tournament Tuesday. 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
ND opens conference schedule 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 11 Irish will look to rebound from a disappointing 10-9 loss to Vanderbilt as they open up the Big East portion of their schedule against Louisville. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said the loss against Vanderbilt was particularly upsetting because of the unforced errors in the last 10 minutes, something the Irish (4-2) will look to correct. 
“There were just a lot of unforced errors,” Coyne said. “People are turning the ball 
see COYNE/page 24 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Louderback heads to alma mater looking for momentum 
Jay Louderback, fresh off his nent. Nostalgia aside, the trip will they’ve lost to top-15 teams 
By CHRIS ALLEN 

400th win as a coach. Wichita “I’m looking forward to it,” be tough for the Irish despite by close margins. They’re 
Sports Writer 

State is Louderback’s alma Louderback said. “I’ve been the subpar records of the probably one of the top-30 mater, where he won a gone for 24 years now, but I opponents. The Horned Frogs’ teams in the country so it’ll be 
The No. 3 Irish (13-2) will Missouri Valley Conference know a lot of people there. lone win this season came easy not to underestimate look to continue their winning title in 1976 at No. 3 singles They’ve got a new facility over the Texas Longhorns, but them. They’re a real good ways as they travel to Wichita as a player and guided the there and it’s a real nice facil-Louderback knows they are team.” State this weekend to take on team to a 122-94 record in ity. A couple of my teammates better than their record. TCU has its top three singles TCU (1-11) and the Wichita seven seasons as a coach. from back then are coaching “They’re 1-11, yes, but they players ranked in the top 100 State (6-8). Louderback said he is excited at racquet clubs in the area. lost eight matches 4-3,” in the country, which will be a 
The trip carries special sig-to return to familiar territory, It’s going to be a nice trip for Louderback said. “Everyone nificance for Irish head coach though this time as an oppo-me.” they’ve played is ranked and see FRILLING/page 24 

MEN’S LACROSSE BASEBALL 
Irish open Big East schedule Notre Dame readies 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will play its first game of Big East men’s lacrosse with a home date against Rutgers Saturday. 
No. 13 Notre Dame (5-2) was formerly a member of the Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) but has moved to the Big East along with Syracuse, Georgetown, Villanova, Rutgers, St. John’s and Providence. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said that the move was a positive one for his program. 
“It’s going to be a great con­ference for us. We’ve kept some of the rivalries with the teams from the GWLL but get a whole new group of teams to compete with,” he said. “The Big East 
see BIG EAST/page 26 


MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer Junior midfielder David Earl tries to get past an Ohio State defender during Notre Dame’s 7-6 overtime victory on March 20. 
for recovery in Florida 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Most teams hope to be peaking as they head into conference play. Yet after a disappointing start to the year, Notre Dame is far from the level of play Irish coach Dave Schrage wants his team to be as it travels to South Florida for a three-game series. 
The Irish (8-12) have struggled considerably fol­lowing a promising start to the season. Wednesday’s 10­5 defeat at the hands of UIC marked their eighth loss in 11 games. Schrage said the Big East opener against the Bulls, who have had troubles of their own, could play a critical role in the team’s direction for the remainder of the year. 
“They’re in the same boat we are,” he said. “They did-n’t do so well in the noncon­ference as they would have liked just like us, so it’s going to be two teams that are fighting for some identity this weekend.” 
While the Bulls (8-13) enter the series with similar struggles as the Irish have, their season story has been nearly the opposite of Notre Dame’s. Opening the season with four consecutive losses, the Bulls have had a brutal nonconference schedule that 
see SCHRAGE/page 24 







