the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Eddy Street development progresses 


By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
A year since Eddy Street Commons opened, nearly all of its storefronts and living options are filled. 
Five new businesses opened at Eddy Street Commons during the summer and three more are scheduled to open this fall, said Lori Wick, director of marketing for Kite Realty. 
“We had a lot of activity after May,” she said. 
Chris Jackowiak, property manager for The Foundry Lofts and Apartments, said the apart­ments are currently at 78 percent occupancy. 
“We just moved in approxi­mately 83 residents within the last three weeks,” she said. “So it’s been very busy here.” 
Located directly south of cam­pus at the corner of Angela Boulevard and Eddy Street, Eddy Street Commons offers shopping, dining and living spaces. It opened in the fall of 2009. 
Over the summer, AT&T, Kildare’s Irish Pub, The Mark Dine & Tap, Nicholas J Salon & Spa and Fairfield Inn and Suites began operation. Kilwin’s Chocolates & Ice Cream, Jamba Juice and Camellia Cosmetics are scheduled to open in the coming months, Wick said. 
Wick said Kildare’s, which opened on Aug. 5, has been very successful. It is a chain restau­rant and pub, with other loca­tions in Pennsylvania, Delaware and North Carolina. 
see EDDY/page 5 


SaintMary’s housesrareBible 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s College is the new home for a reproduction of the Saint John’s Bible, a book worth about $145,000, comprised of seven volumes, and nearly two feet tall when all seven volumes are stacked upon one another. 
After being blessed at the College’s opening Mass Wednesday morning, a repro­duction of the Bible was pre­sented to the Cushwa ­Leighton Library, where it will be be displayed perma­nently. 
ALICIA SMITH/The Observer
“It’s a physical treasure, its 
This reproduction of the Saint John’s Bible is now on display in see BIBLE/page 5 the Cushwa-Leighton Library at Saint Mary’s College. 



Homesweethome 
Students return, adjust from studying abroad 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Senior Mike Taylor spent last semester studying abroad in Puebla, Mexico, and now that he’s back at Notre Dame, he often finds himself subcon­sciously speaking Spanish instead of his native language. 
“Speaking Spanish all the time was tough at first, but once you get over that it really pays,” he said. “There will be times now where I’ll start speaking and I’ll catch myself 
because  I’m  speaking  
Spanish.”  
As  students  who  have  

recently spent time studying abroad shift back to campus life at Notre Dame, they say their return to Notre Dame is both exciting and a reminder of what they miss from their time abroad. 
Taylor said reuniting with friends he had not seen for months was the most exciting part of returning to Notre Dame. 
“It’s fun to see everyone again. Going abroad reminds me how important everyone is to me,” he said. 
Senior Steven Ouyang, who spent the spring semester in London, agreed but noted that being back at Notre Dame does have its restrictions. 
“I miss being able to travel to so many places easily and cheaply,” he said. 
For senior Liz Morgan, who returned from a semester in Athens, Greece, local trans­portation has actually proven to be easier to use at Notre Dame than abroad. 
“I was glad to come back and be able to drive around,” she said. “It’s easier to trans­port yourself here. It is nice not having to walk 30 minutes to class.” 
Sophomore Louis Medina, who spent his summer study­ing in Toledo, Spain, said he misses one of the country’s 
see ABROAD/page 4 





Students stay busy over summer holiday 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
This summer was anything but lazy for Notre Dame stu­dents, who kept busy intern­ing at various companies across the country, working at their summer jobs close to home or traveling to foreign countries. 
Senior Claire Brosnihan had been studying abroad in Angers, France, last semes­ter and traveled straight to Dublin, Ireland, after the semester ended for an internship. 
“My finals ended on Friday and I flew to Dublin the next day. I got home in August and hadn’t been home since January,” she said. 
Brosnihan lived in a flat with other Notre Dame stu­dents. She did legal research for the Department of Justice and Law Reform and worked on their Judicial Review. 
“Getting to live and work in another country was really rewarding. You just get a dif­ferent perspective on what the culture is,” she said. “By seeing the Irish justice sys-
see SUMMER/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Annual biathalon preview page 3  B-1 Block Party preview page 8  Football team has disappointing practice page 16  Viewpoint page 7 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, August 26, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Quarter dogs? 
Every year before I come to school I get a $10 roll of quarters from the bank at home. My mom thinks I get them for laundry. Nope, I use the money she puts in Domer Dollars for that. 
Those 40 quarters are for the 40 quar­ter dogs I will eat before fall break. 
WAIT?!?! No more quarter dogs?! They are now called MID­NIGHT DOGS?!?! 
Actually, that’s not a big deal. 

THEY COST 33 Douglas Farmer CENTS?!?! 
Let me repeat 
that: Sports Editor 
The day-old hot dogs that used to cost one coin with George Washington’s head on it NOW COST 33 CENTS!!!!! 
Who made this decision to raise the price by eight cents? Was it the head of Food Services or simply a sadistic man­ager of the Huddle Mart? Someone must take responsibility for this travesty. 
Someone must explain why EIGHT CENTS is worth endangering tradition, convenience, education, world peace and healthy livers. 
My oldest brother graduated from Notre Dame in 2000, and his sole piece of advice when I enrolled in 2008 was, “Find out when quarter dogs are at LaFortune.” 
And it really was that simple. I would wait until restlessness hit shortly after midnight, grab two quarters, find the guys downstairs, and we would all pro­crastinate for an hour. 
Now? All I can find is a quarter, two pennies and a nickel. Guess I’m out of luck. Without that refresher, all six of us are too tired to keep working. To bed each of us goes. 
What’s next? Well, first, none of us fin­ished our work. From day one, we’re behind, bound only to fall further behind in class. Grades will drop. Alex will prob­ably fail out. With the money he didn’t spend on half-cooked hot dogs, he’ll take up alcoholism. By age 30, he is going to need a new liver. All because some anonymous higher power raised the price of “midnight dogs” to 33 cents. 
But Alex won’t be alone. The rest of us might not fail out of school, but our GPAs will become tainted and our recommen­dations from teachers won’t be as glow­ing. James won’t find an internship to turn into a job offer. He’ll find a ho-hum job he hates. He’ll turn to gambling for solace, and on one rainy night some high-roller will take James’ wedding ring, his son’s piggy bank and, before sunrise, his house. 
Matt will see all of us in misery when he comes back from Australia. He will be so concerned he will stop focusing on schoolwork. His destiny of designing environmentally-friendly nuclear power plants will go unfulfilled. China will take over Asia, Europe and then the Americas, in search of oil. Before long, my grandchildren won’t talk to me because Mandarin is their first language. 
All because someone decided to ruin all of our futures by raising the price of quarter dogs eight cents. Hope that someone is happy, because nobody else will be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS T E BEST T ING T AT  AS  APPENED TO YOU T IS WEEK? 







Andrew Moser  Ryan Dunbar  Greg Morman  Gayan Hettipola  Elizabeth Andrews  
junior Keenan  sophomore Keenan  sophomore Keenan  junior Siegfried  junior Pasquerilla West  
“I saw Scott Pilgrim vs. The World. Great movie.”  “Helping with Frosh-O.”  “Learning that Guster is coming to Notre Dame.”  “I realized I am going abroad and I have two more weeks of break while everyone else has class.”  “Chris Bell.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Defensive linemen prepare for the upcoming football season with a drill Wednesday afternoon. Irish coach Brian Kelly said he was disappointed with team effort during the practice. The Irish will face Purdue at home on Sept. 4. 
OFFBEAT 
Man shot in head feels bullet four years later 
BERLIN — A 35-year-old man who walked around for five years with a bullet lodged in the back of his head says he suspected for a while something was there but only went to doctors after he started getting headaches. 
Robert Chojecki was partying on New Years Eve five years ago in the German town of Herne when he was hit with the .22-caliber bullet. Doctors removed it this week from between his skin and skull. 
The Polish-born Chojecki told RTL television Wednesday he thought he'd been hit by fireworks, but later forgot about it. 

He said at first he had "no pain, but approxi­mately one year ago I started to get a headache." 
Police say the bullet may have been fired in cele­bration. Doctors say he should have no problems now that it has been removed. 
Police guard home of woman who abused cat 
LONDON — The home of a woman filmed picking up a cat and throwing it into a rubbish bin is under police guard in Britain after her actions sparked outrage from animal lovers and even death threats. 
Mary Bale, 45, told the Sun newspaper on Wednesday: "I really don't see what everyone is get­ting so excited about --it's just a cat." 
"I don't know what came over me, but I suddenly thought it would be funny to put it in the wheelie bin, which was right beside me." 
The cat's owner, Darryl Mann, had installed securi­ty cameras outside his house after vandals dam­aged his car so consulted the CCTV footage after his tabby Lola went missing for 15 hours and was finally found crying for help inside the bin. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight friday saturday 

IN BRIEF 
Selections from the William McGraw Photography Collection will be on display in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries II and III in the Snite Museum of Art at 10 a.m. today. 
The Saint Mary’s College Campus Ministry Department will show “The Making of Saint John’s Bible” in the Atrium at 11:30 a.m. today. 
Shakespeare at Notre Dame will present “Cymbeline ” in Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 p.m. tonight. Tickets are on sale for $12­$35. 
The RecSports Biathlon will begin at 10:30 a.m. Saturday at St. Joseph Beach. Participants can reg­ister online on RecRegister. 
The musical “Kiss Me Kate ” will be shown at Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 p.m. Saturday. Tickets cost $12­$25. 
An exhibit titled “Parallel Currents: Highlights of the Ricardo Pau -Llosa Collection of Latin American Art " will be on display in the O’Shaughnessy West Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
The Office of Sustainability will host an outdoor screen­ing of “Planet Earth” on South Quad at 8:30 p.m. Sunday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


sunday monday 


Thursday, August 26, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 




SGA discusses recent new campus changes 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
During the first meeting of the academic year, the Saint Mary’s College Student Government Association (SGA) discussed sev­eral changes that have taken place at the College. 
Rachael Chesley, student body president, opened the floor to discuss the recent elimination of the co-exchange meal ticket pro­gram at the College. 
things for Saint Mary’s College specifically,” Chesley said. 
Other members of SGA sug­gested using the money for other dining resources on campus. Chesley said she plans to discuss these issues with Johnson. 
In addition to conferring about the co-exchange program changes, SGA discussed new renovations they planned to make to the SGA office in order to make it more user-friendly for members of various clubs and 
organiza ­tions. 
“Obviously “They felt that [the One idea 
we all got the SGA posed 
money] could be better
sudden e-mail for the reno­that was sent spent here doing things vations of the on Saturday,” for Saint Mary’s College office was to Chesley said. have an art 
specifically.” 
“I can tell you student paint that [as] stu-a mural in dent govern-Rachael Chesley the office. 
ment, we are SMC student body president SGA also 
the voice of the students and we’ve been receiving lots of e-mails from students in regard to this issue.” 
Chesley announced that the executives of SGA planned to meet with Karen Johnson, vice president for Student Affairs to discuss the matter in depth. 
Other board members offered suggestions of what to discuss at the meeting with Johnson. 
Chesley said the co-exchange program was terminated due to the expense of the program. She said the College planned to put the money saved into a general fund. 
“They felt that [the money] could be better spent here doing discussed set­
ting a dead­
line and a timeline of when the office should be completed. 
In addition, a meeting was set up to form a subcommittee to work specifically with the office renovations. 
SGA also discussed issues that related to different segments of the board including a short dis­cussion about the success of Student Activities Board’s Belles Bash that was held Sunday. 
SGA closed their meeting with reminders about Activities Night, which will be held Sept. 1 from 6 
p.m. to 9 p.m. 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



RecSports kicks off with race 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
As the academic year begins, RecSports will host its annual biathlon Saturday morning to kick off a year of athletic events to provide refuge outside of class for active students on campus. 
“A lot of people know about the race and look forward to it every year,” RecSports pro­gram coordinator Tim Novak said. 
From the first biathlon in 1999, RecSports has contin­ued to use the event to wel­come the Notre Dame commu­nity back at the beginning of the academic year, Novak said. 
Competitors will swim a half-mile in St. Joseph lake and then proceed to a two-mile trail around both campus lakes. Teams of two can split these sections of the race between the individuals. 
“The biathlon is an event to kick of our year and get peo­ple aware of our programs,” Novak said. “We especially use the biathlon to encourage peo­ple to compete in the Domer Run, which is much larger and reaches out to a larger num­ber of people.” 
Students and other members of the Notre Dame community can participate in the Domer Run on Sept. 18 to benefit cancer awareness and research, according to the RecSports website. 
The competitors for the biathlon are divided into 10 different divisions based on gender, involvement as a team or as an individual, and differ­entiation between varsity ath­letes and non-varsity partici­pants to accommodate for the wide range of skill level, Novak said. 
Junior Laura Philipp won the individual women’s divi­sion in 2008 and 2009. 
“As a freshman, seeing 
information 
on 
the biathlon just made me realize that there were a lot of different RecSp orts events,” she said. “It opened me up to different athletic events on campus.” 

Philipp said she appreciat­ed that the 

open 
up the school year,” physical edu­cation faculty member Josh Skube said. “RecSports does a really nice job.” 


Skube won the individual men’s non-varsity divi­sion in 2009. He said that even though the event is well support­ed by the var­sity swim team it is still it,” 
“The biathlon is an event 
said. “The to kick off our year and swim is the 
get people aware of our more daunt­ing task to 
programs.” 
most people.” Novak said Tim Novak that any anx­
program coordinator iety about competitors’ 
RecSports 
biathlon gives individuals a chance to race and compete outside of many of the team activities also hosted through RecSports. 
“It is a pretty great event to 
The feeling of confidence after completing the biathlon is valuable especially for new competitors, Novak said. 
“We get a lot of encouraging 
feedback from people who did not think they would be able to complete 
Novak 
safety during the race has been thor ­
oughly addressed by RecSports in its preparation. 
The safety precautions set in place by RecSports, the Notre Dame Fire Department, and the Sailing Club include boats, lifeguards and medical per­
“This is really friendly towards all levels of ability. I do not get a feel­ing that everyone is out to win it.” 
Josh Skube Physical education faculty member 
open to competitors at all stages of experience. 
“This is really friendly towards all levels of ability,” Skube said. “I do not get a feeling that everyone is out to win it. ... Everyone just wants to go out and have fun.” 
Free registration especially entices students and other members of the Notre Dame community to participate, he said. 
sports.nd.edu 
sonnel ready for emergen­cies, Novak said. 
Novak said the biathlon helps RecSp orts coordinators back into “the race mentali­ty” after the less eventful summer sea­son. 
Registration for the biathlon is free and avail abl e online at rec-or at the St. 
Joseph Beach beginning at 9 
a.m. the day of the event. The race begins at 10:30 a.m. 
“The only real complaint we ever have is that the lake water is a little cold,” Novak said. “And we cannot really change that so I think we do alright.” 


Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 26, 2010 


RecSports offers free, trial classes 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
RecSports had a problem. Four years ago, students were dropping out of fitness classes because the classes weren’t what they expected or want­ed. 
That changed when the department began offering a week of free fitness classes at the start of every semester. 
Shellie Dodd-Bell, RecSports fitness and instruction pro­gram coordinator, said when she first arrived in 2007, RecSports was giving students a lot of refunds for fitness classes. 
“So we began offering sam­ple classes, which gives stu­dents an opportunity to feel things out before they com­mit,” she said. 
The sample class program has been very successful, with some 1,200 students taking part in over 50 free fitness classes offered in one week, Dodd-Bell said. 
Students from freshmen to seniors make use of the free classes, and their fitness lev­els are as varied as their ages. 
Linda Hardy, an 11-year veteran of RecSports yoga instruction, taught a sample class Wednesday to a mixture of student abilities. 
“One girl came up to me before class to ask about becoming a yoga instructor here at Notre Dame,” Hardy said. “A handful of students had never done yoga before.” 
The sample class did not get through every yoga pose she had planned, but Hardy is glad that she was able to offer her class for a trial run. 
“The free sample probably promotes the class more than paying for it right up front,” Hardy said. “It helps the stu­dents adjust to a schedule and lets them pick and choose the best class and instructor for them.” 
The students in Hardy’s class also enjoyed sampling how the class fits into their schedules and exercise plans. 
“I’m glad I get to figure out if I like the class before mak­ing a commitment,” Elizabeth Benson, an off-campus senior, said. “It also helps to try out different instructors.” 
Freshman Jessica Schaefer was glad she could add yoga class to her schedule during her first week of college. 
“It’s a good chance to relax in the crazy start to the school year,” Schaefer said. “Now that I’ve been to the class, I can see that it would be worth it to pay the fee, to actually sign up.” 
Hardy’s sample yoga class had 14 students during the busy noon hour, a number that impressed some of the students. 
“I’m really impressed by how many people are involved in the fitness classes and other physical fitness stuff on campus,” Schaefer said, 
Although RecSports adver­tises for its sample fitness classes, many of the attendees hear about the opportunity by word-of-mouth. 
“My sister had taken yoga before and I decided to take the class with her,” Benson said. 
Meanwhile, Dodd-Bell offered some advice to stu­dents interested in attending a sample RecSports class, especially the popular Step, Sculpt and Pilates classes which have limited equip­ment. 
“Come early,” Dodd-Bell said. “The classes are first come, first served.” 
Above all, Dodd-Bell said, students should use the sam­ple class week to find a fitness class that is “just right for them.” 


Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
unique cultural practices. 
“It’s weird not having a siesta anymore. They proved quite useful to catch up on some sleep after nights of travel and fun.” 
Morgan said some of the everyday distinctions of Greek life are what she misses on campus. 
“All I want to do is listen to Greek pop music. It’s so catchy,” she said. 
For Medina and sophomore Aly Sullivan, who also spent her summer studying in Toledo, their time abroad included a once in a lifetime experience — being in the country that won the FIFA World Cup during the final match. 
“People think that we’re seri­ous about football, but they were crazy. People had second-and third-favorite teams so they were rooting for games that had no impact on Spain,” Sullivan said. 
Sullivan said the natives of Spain were passionate in their victory celebration. 
“All night after the final I could hear people screaming and honking,” she said. “The fireworks went off for a week.” 
Medina said his experiences in Spain were like nothing he has ever experienced. 
“Being abroad in Spain dur­ing the World Cup was epic. I was able to immerse myself completely in the love for the game. Honestly it was the best month of my life,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



page 5 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August  26, 2010 

Eddy 
continued from page 1 
Kilwin’s Chocolates and Ice Cream, which should be open by late October or early November, will be next door to Kildare’s. According to Kilwin’s website, it is a franchise with locations in 14 other states and offers a vari­ety of desserts. 
Another new dining option at Eddy Street Commons is the The Mark Dine & Tap, which opened in mid-August, Wick said. 
“[It is] an American diner with a vibrant, big city appeal,” Wick said. “The décor is just fabulous. It’s very high-end.” 
Nicholas J Salon & Spa, which opened on May 20, features Aveda products and offers hair­cuts, hair coloring and styling, nail treatment, wax treatment, make-up, skincare, massages and aromatherapy. It will have an interior door connecting it to Camellia Cosmetics, which should open by early September. Camellia, which also has a loca­tion in Granger, will feature pop­ular cosmetic brands. 
The restaurants that opened in 2009, such as Chipotle, Hot Box Pizza and Five Guys Burgers and Fries, have already experienced popularity among Notre Dame students, Wick said. 
Fairfield Inn & Suites by Marriott, which Wick said is a limited service hotel with 119 guestrooms and suites, opened in June. 
“It’s beautiful inside,” she said. “Very convenient to cam­pus.” 
Wick said more store openings would be announced in the com­ing months. Kite Realty Group is currently negotiating with retail­ers, but is not yet able to announce the names. 
“We still have one building that we’re working on right now, and it’s the last building that is south of campus,” Wick said. “We hope to be able to announce something mid-October.” 

While many of the businesses at Eddy Street Commons appeal to students, it has a broader appeal to professors and profes­sionals in the area, Jackowiak said. 
The lofts and apartments have residents of all ages. They are only available for occupants age 21 and over, and students can occupy a maximum of 20 per­cent of the apartments in each of the three buildings. 
“I would say the average age out of the entire property would be … maybe anywhere from 32 to 35,” she said. 
Jackowiak said the feedback from residents is very positive, and hoped to reach 85 to 90 percent occupancy by early October. 
In addition to apartment liv­ing, the Eddy Street Commons area has townhouses along 

Summer 
continued from page 1 
tem from the interior, I really got to learn what it is all about, and how it’s different than the justice system in America.” 
Brosnihan ended her European travels with a week-long biking excursion through the Irish countryside. 
“I started in the southwest of Ireland in Killarney and ended up in the 
north by “Much of my businesses and G a l w a y, ” experience was about governments to Brosnihan said. improve their 
trial and error.” 
“I went by operational effi­
myself with ciency. nothing but KC Youm Frustaci said three outfits junior his internship ence helped him to quickly improve as a graphic designer. 
“I received a lot of advice and feedback from senior designers. Much of my experi­ence was about trial and error,” Youm said. “I must have spent hours redesigning the same project over and over.” 
Junior Matthew Frustaci, a finance and history major, also completed an internship relat­ed to his field of study. He interned at the Philadelphia branch of the Unisys Corporation, a company that partners with 
helped him to learn skills not covered in text­
books, especially because sen­iors at the company mingled with the interns, offering them advice and guidance on their careers. 
“A lot of [seniors] there were telling us that what you learn in school is not exactly what you’re going to use in the real world,” Frustaci said. “The real world is not necessarily about learning the theories — 
Angela Boulevard. 
Ashley Bedell, project manag­er at Kite Realty Group, said these three-story row homes are selling well and new units are being built as they are sold. The new owners of these units include alumni, Notre Dame fac­ulty and others. 
The homes are only up for sale, not for lease; therefore stu­and a map. It was so great seeing all the little towns and meeting so many people along the way.” 
Junior Molly Hunter also spent the summer abroad, completing a Student International Business Council internship in Benque Viejo, Belize. 
Hunter analyzed and com­piled math test scores of stu­dents in the Catholic schools across the country. She 
dents are not living in them, she 
also helped to it’s about hav­
“Living in a developing
said. 
create a report ing a problem 
As for the future of Eddy 
for the govern-country was an and finding 
Street Commons, Kite Realty 
ment and eye-opening experience the solution.” 
school manage-Frustaci
Group will look to assess the 
which I was very
market and the desires of cus­
ment that high-said his 
lighted the fortunate to have.” internship 
tomers and the University, 
need for a gave him a
Bedell said. 
“There is definite potential for 
mathematics taste for what 
Molly Hunter
curriculum in corporate life 
phase two to extend south down 
junior
Belize. is like, espe-
Eddy Street, but that timing is cially how 
every project directly affects one’s ascent on the corporate ladder. 
Sophomore Mark Sonnick, a physics major with a pre-med intent, spent the summer doing clinical research on HIV testing. He worked for the Jacobi Medical Center in The Bronx, New York — an area with an HIV prevalence rate of 
1.5 to two percent, which is considered high, he said. 
“I learned how to interact with people, especially how to speak properly about a loaded issue like HIV, he said. “Many people there are affected by it in one way or another.” 

Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
completely unknown and those properties are not under control yet.” 


Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
“Living in a developi ng country was an eye-opening experience which I was very fortunate to have,” she said. 
Other students stayed closer to home, completing intern­ships related to their respec­tive majors. 
Junior KC Youm logged up to 70 hours a week between his two summer jobs at Notre Dame. Youm, a graphic design and marketing major, interned at Notre Dame’s internal design agency, AgencyND, and worked for DormDrinks, a food and beverage product delivery network for students, as a freelance graphic design­er. 
Between the two companies, Youm said the intense experi-



Bible 
continued from page 1 
beauty, its craftsmanship,” the College’s president, Carol Ann Mooney, said. “But because it’s also a book con­taining the Word of God, it’s so appropriate for it to have a home at Saint Mary’s.” 
The Bible, which is the Heritage Edition of The Saint John’s Bible, was a gift from Judy Rauenhorst Mahoney, a 1974 graduate of the College. 
“I thought ‘Oh, I love books, I love Saint Mary’s, I really need to get the word out about this wonderful book,’” Mahoney said. “Here at Saint Mary’s College, it can be an influence on students, faculty and the broader South Bend community.” 
The book is composed of seven volumes; however, only four volumes were presented to the College Wednesday. The other three volumes will be presented after they are completed. 
Each day, the librarians will choose a new page of the Bible to display, said Fr. Eric Hollas, senior associate for Arts and Cultural Affairs at Saint John University. 
“As they change the pages each day and alternate vol­umes, people will read pages just to meditate on that pas­sage in the Bible,” Hollas said. “Other people are going to be interested because of the art. Other people are going to be interested just because it’s a masterpiece. 
“With the changes in the pages every day, there’s always something new to look at, something new to appreci­ate.” 
Hollas said he hopes the Bible will still draw attention for years to come. 
“My hope is that in a thou­sand years from now, people will be looking at it,” Hollas said. 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 6 Thursday, August 26, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
lmyers2@nd.edu, swerner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpnt.1@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Chris Masoud Megan Doyle Allan Joseph Sara Felsenstein Scene Graphics Alex Kilpatrick 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 




What’s on your mindset? 
By now you’ve heard it so very many times, but nevertheless, wel­come, from those of us who live here all year round and don’t leave after four years. Welcome back, and a spe­cial welcome to the class of 2014. 
Kate Barrett 
Each and every one of you has 
FaithPoint 
traveled a differ­ent path, which has now led you to Notre Dame. Know that you’re here for a reason and that many, many people rejoice in your presence here. 
The beginning of a new academic year at colleges and universities brings with it an annual custom out of Beloit College in Beloit, Wisc., called the Mindset List. Designed to help college faculty “relate” to their students without looking hopelessly out of touch, the list urges professors to remember (among other things) that to the student sitting in front of them, phones have always been cord­less, and email is passé, too slow to be tolerated as a preferred form of communication. 
So it got me thinking, if we had our own mindset list here for our brand-new Class of 2014, what would it include? Well, in the lifetimes — or at least memories — of those of you born in or around 1992, 
Sacred Heart has always been a Basilica. 
The Burke Memorial (behind West Quad) has always been a nine-hole course. 
“The Shirt” has always been the attire of choice for home games. 
Howard, Cavanaugh and Pangborn, 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

all men’s residences when I was a student, have always been women’s halls (of course, as recently as 1971 every hall was a men’s hall). 
Grace and Flanner have always been office buildings. 
North Dining Hall has always had that funky split-level front on it. 
Notre Dame has (ouch!) not won a national championship nor produced a Heisman Trophy winner. 
The problem with these annual lists is that they assume that no students pay attention to anything that ever happened before they were born (come on, you know we used to win national championships, right?), and that those of us who are, ahem, older than students can’t believe that time actually has continued to march on since we graduated. 
So, classes of 2011, ‘12, ‘13 and ‘14, what’s your mindset? Despite what the lists claim, I’ll bet you have more in common with the classes of, say, 1974, 1985, 1962 or 2000 than we even realize. You may also have more in common with each other than you first believed when you walked into your new room and thought, “There is no way I’m going to make it a whole year with her.” 
Notre Dame students share a par­ticular (some might say peculiar) mindset, a sense of tradition and con­nection to something bigger and older than themselves. Maybe it’s because we make so much here of customs and rituals that have been around for years, decades, even generations. Maybe it’s because the celebration of our faith remains the most important ritual we’ve shared here since the first days when Holy Cross missionary priests staked their claim by the shores of the lakes. 
And our faith makes us ready and able to welcome each new class of students to the ongoing community history of this place, to invite each of you to become a part of the mindset of future students who will come to Notre Dame long after you’ve left. When we follow the example of Christ, we will recognize that, along with bringing laptops and smart phones and iPods to school this semester, some members of the Notre Dame family have brought with them the weight of a serious family illness or recent death, or the fear of a par­ent’s impending joblessness or recent divorce. When we live out our belief in the Gospel, we’ll reach out over and over to include and support those who need us the most. 
Some of the more superficial details have changed: when I lived in Farley we had phones in our rooms, provid­ed by the university, and they all had cords. However, in many more impor­tant ways our mindset remains the same. Whether we graduated 25 years ago or are just getting started, we have the responsibility and the opportunity to ensure that those who follow us here will know that faith in God and love of the Lord Jesus Christ are at the heart of the life and mind­set of Notre Dame. 
This week’s FaithPoint was written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus pro­gram in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Family isn’t about whose bloodyou have. It’s about who youcare about.” 
Trey Parker and Matt Stone South Park creators 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Success is the ability to go fromone failure to another with no loss of enthusiasm.” 
Sir Winston Churchill British politician 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, August 26, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Quarter Dog extortion 
There is an ominous threat of price gouging amok at our cherished University. I am, of course, speaking about the atroc­ity of the quarter dog price increase. For those who are ignorant of this glaring abomination, the Huddle recently decided to punish the noble students of Our Lady’s University by imposing a barbaric 32 per­cent increase of quarter dog prices. This vicious assault on our consumer rights should not be condoned. 
We have reached the tipping point. What shall we call ‘quarter dogs’ if they do not cost a quarter? I fail to imagine the name of ‘third dog’ catching on. For a dollar, you now receive one less hot dog. This clearly discriminates against diligent cost cutters and late night snackers. My explanation? It is a nefarious plot by Reckers to divert traffic flow through their outrageously overpriced food stock. 
Think it isn’t a huge problem? Think again. In the past year, the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimated a core inflation rate of 1.2 percent. With the eight cent hijacking of our beloved ‘quarter dogs,’ the Huddle has imposed a 32 percent increase on prices. At this rate, within 10 years, quarter dogs will cost $5.30! That’s more than a footlong sub at a non-Notre Dame Subway! In twenty years, quarter dogs will be called “$85.11 dogs.” 
Stop this injustice now! Stand up and be heard to cease this anathema to our stu­dent rights! 
Daniel Kamp 
senior off campus Aug. 25 

Midnight snack or midnight scam? 
For the past two years I have enjoyed the traditional quarter dogs at the Huddle Mart. All summer long, I have yearned for a post midnight snack that would cost only one quarter. But something happened last night at LaFortune that left a bad taste in my mouth. Quarter in hand, I approached the cashier to purchase a supposed QUAR­TER dog. To my utter disbelief, the girl behind the counter requested eight more cents than I was expecting. "Thirty-three cents," she demanded. 
For a brief moment I believed her com­ment to be in jest. Upon further review, I saw the sign for midnight dogs: 99 cents for three. 
How could this be? I came here for quarter dogs. Not midnight dogs. 
And so I say thank you to the Huddle. Thank you for trampling on the tradition of Notre Dame and destroying all my hopes and expectations for the fall semes­ter. 
Without hesitation, I stepped back from the counter and returned my long-awaited snack to the rip-off dog station. 
I realize that yes, it is only eight cents more. But what’s next? A fence blocking that path to DeBart? 

Matt Brown 
junior Knott Hall Aug. 25 



UWIRE Ground Zero mosque strikes debate 
Timothy McVeigh was a radical Christian terrorist. 
The masterminds of the 9/11 attacks were radical Muslim terrorists. 
No God-fearing American would ever question the pres ­ence of a building Indiana Daily affiliated with Student Christianity within 
Editorial Board 
blocks of the Alfred 
P. Murrah Federal Indiana Daily Building. And yet Student there is a veritable uproar over the planned building of the relatively innocu­ous Cordoba House, an Islamic communi­ty center near Ground Zero. 
This fracas can only be attributed to racially-tinged Islamophobia. 
Irrational American fear and loathing of “the other” is nothing new — every wave of immigrants to this country has faced discrimination and despicable pub­lic attacks. Opposition to the planned Islamic center at Ground Zero stems from the same repulsive vein of American history our immigrant ances­tors faced. Critics argue this is not the case. It is merely the proximity to the site of the World Trade Center that incenses them. 
Where some would argue building the Islamic center “down the road ” is acceptable, how far is far enough? What about Murfeesboro, Tenn., where the Islamic Center of Murfeesboro is being built in the face of public outcry and intolerance? Or perhaps Temecula, Calif., where protesting has occurred with signs reading “No more mosques in America.” Where were these protesters to defend the religious honor of those killed by a Christian in the Oklahoma City bombing? 
It is disgusting to see this irrational fear raging in the world of public debate today. 
It is disheartening to look to our past and see the acceptance of an idyllic American Christianity being unquestion­ably revered only blocks from the site where one of its own radical members murdered 168 people and wounded hun­dreds more. 
It is disconcerting to see self-righteous hypocrisy destroying the benefits of the First Amendment. 
This column first appeared in the August 24 edition of the Indiana Daily Student, the daily publication serving Indiana University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The CSR buzzword 
In an article published by the Wall Street Journal, Dr. Aneel G. Karnani, an associate professor of strategy at the University of Michigan Ross School of Business contends that: “[the] idea that companies have a duty to address social ills is not just flawed, it also makes it more likely that we’ll ignore the real solutions to these problems. 
“Very simply, in cases where private profits and public inter­ests are aligned, the idea of cor­porate social responsibility is irrelevant: Companies that simply do everything they can to boost profits will end up increasing social welfare. In circumstances in which profits and social wel­fare are in direct opposition, an appeal to corporate social responsibility (CSR) will almost always be ineffective, because executives are unlikely to act vol­untarily in the public interest and against shareholder interests. 
“Irrelevant or ineffective, take your pick. But it’s worse than that. The danger is that a focus on social responsibility will delay or discourage more-effective measures to enhance social wel­fare in those cases where profits and the public good are at odds. As society looks to companies to address these problems, the real solutions may be ignored.” 
Dr. Kamani makes a very seductive point, but if his thesis is indeed accurate, then where does the Mendoza College of Business at Notre Dame fit into this equation? Is the school that has been aggressively marketing its “Ask More of Business” cam­paign flawed in its thinking, and in fact causing more harm than good by postulating we use busi­ness as a means to solve the world’s most pressing social problems? Could we in fact be doing more “good” by pressing profits in instances where profits and social responsibility align rather than trumpeting social responsibility as a necessary cor­porate duty? 
Is CSR just a faddish buzzword to make business feel good about itself and garner positive publici­ty that may ultimately enhance the bottom line, or is it some­thing that we should incentivize in our public policy and force business to take a hit in order and arbitrarily spend sharehold­er money on potentially zero return on investment ventures? 

Nick Weido 
junior Morrissey Hall Aug. 24 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Help make ND green. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
The Observer 





Scene
page 8 Thursday, August 26, 2010 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
Do you remember your Frosh-O? The awkward sere­nading, the scavenger hunt, the hundreds of people you met in three days whose names you tried to remem­ber? And although you met a lot of people in those few days, your closest friends are probably now those whom you met in class or through sports. 
But imagine meeting people who would become the most important people to you dur­ing that somewhat embarrass­ing Freshman Orientation experience. That is what hap­pened to Adam Gardner, Ryan Miller and Brian 
Rosenworcel in 1991 at 
Tufts University in Medford, 
Mass. Two months after 
meeting during their version of Frosh-O, the three musi­cians played at the Midnight Café coffee house, and the alternative rock band Guster was born. 
The band, originally named Gus, debuted their first album, “Parachutes,” in 1995. They released another superb album, “Goldfly,“ two years later, selling around 10,000 copies of the two albums on mostly word of mouth. However, it was not until the release of “Lost and Gone Forever” in 1999 that they achieved mainstream success, appearing on “The Late Show with David Letterman” and releas­ing their first music video. 
Since then, 
the band 
has released two more albums, “Keep It Together” in 2003 and “Ganging Up on the Sun” in 2006. Also in 2006, the band picked up an “Album of the Year (Major)” award at the Boston Music Awards. They have had songs in well-known soundtracks such as “Wedding Crashers,” “Disturbia,” “Life as a House” and “The O.C.” 
On Oct. 5, the guys are releasing their fifth album, “Easy Wonderful.” The first single off the album “Do You Love Me?” is available on iTunes. Another single, “Bad Bad World,“ is available for free download on the band’s website. 
Guster, however, is 
best known for their 
live shows. The 
band is constantly 
touring and plays 
around 250 shows 
a year. This is not 
their first show at 
Notre Dame, and 
it promises to be a 
fantastic one. 
Ryan, Adam, 
Brian and Joe 
Pisapia, who 
joined the band in 
2003, make their 
shows unique 
with a blend of 
humor and musi­
cal variety. The 
four guys often 
begin shows in 
costume, having 
appeared as 
“Peace Soldiers,” 
red-neck looking 
musicians, and contestants on “The Price is Right.” Their interviews also generally have a touch of humor. When once asked how they write their songs, they invoked Tenacious D and replied, “We write about what we know. We’re stenogra ­phers...we transcribe life and put a little melody under it.” 
Their humor helps them keep a good relationship with their fans. They foster this relationship through their road and studio journals and their willingness to sign auto­graphs after shows. Because much of their early success was due to fan support and marketing, the band took pleasure in maintaining this relationship. They still have these fan representative groups. 
The other great part of Guster, and something for which they are well known, is their musical instrument vari­ety and ability to fill many roles in the band. Generally, Miller and Gardner sing lead vocals and play guitar, and Rosenworcel plays percussion, often with his hands. Pisapia is a multi -instrumentalist, playing anywhere from guitar to keyboard to Appalachian dulcimer. 
But Guster does not confine itself to these roles. Often, Miller and Gardner sing lead at the same time. In the amazing song “Happier,” off “Lost and Gone Forever,” the two switch between singing the same and different lyrics with differing chords, giving them a unique and interesting sound. And often during an encore, Rosenworcel puts down his bongos and per ­forms covers. 
Even though not everyone on campus has been waiting four years for Guster to return to since their last appearance here in 2006, all will enjoy the show. All mem­bers of the band are extreme­ly musically gifted, and they perform beautifully written songs. Their songs are unique enough to stand apart from each other, differing in both theme and beat. 
Each song boasts its own distinct rhythm and style. The range of instruments is amaz­ing, from zippers to bongos to banjos. And the songs are not all about one idea or theme. Rather, they run the gamut, discussing broken hearts in “Either Way” and nostalgia over adolescence in “One Man Wrecking Machine.” 
It’s hard to nail down Guster’s best song, but one that should definitely make it on to the set list for Saturday is “Amsterdam,” the band’s first single off “Lost and Gone Forever.” From the rocking tempo to the smart lyrics, it doesn’t leave your head after one listen. It could be a theme song for many stages in life. 
Guster is an inspiration to any band hoping to make it big out of college. Listen to what could be for the band practicing in your garage, and do not miss a fantastic show. 


Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at mcodonne5@nd.edu 



By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
A solo artist hailing from Los Angeles, Mayer Hawthorne will be performing with Guster this weekend at Legends along with his live band The County. The singer­songwriter’s smooth voice draws from such musical influences as American soul musicians Curtis Mayfield, Isaac Hayes, Leroy Hutson, Barry White and Smokey Robinson as well as ‘60’s Motown trio Holland-Dozier-Holland. 
The Los Angeles -based artist was born Andrew Mayer Cohen and his stage name is a combination of his real middle name, Mayer, and the name of the street he grew up on in Michigan, Hawthorne Road. Born and raised in Ann Arbor, he eventually moved to Los Angeles to pursue a music career and was signed to Stones Throw Records by label head Peanut Butter Wolf, a DJ and hip hop producer. 
Mayer Hawthorne’s debut single “Just 
Ain’t Gonna 
Work Out”/ 
“When I Said 
Goodby e” 
was released 
in November 
2008. The 
single 
became both 
critically and 
commercially 
successful, as 
“Just Ain’t 
Gonna Work 
Out” was cho­
sen as the 
Starbucks 
iTunes Pick of 
the Week the 
following year. 
“When I Said 
Goodbye” was fea­
tured in “We Were 
Once a Fairytale,” a 
short film released at the 
Los Angeles Film Festival in 
June 2009, which was direct­
ed by Oscar-nominated Spike 
Jonze and starred Grammy 
Award-winning Kanye West. The crooner released his 
debut album “A Strange 
Arrangement” on CD and LP in September 2009. Sticking to the basics, the debut is filled with catchy, energetic simple arrangements clearly influenced by 1960’s soul. Mayer Hawthorne relies on his innocent vocals, driving backbeats and sweet horn and sax melodies throughout the LP. As a side project to Mayer Hawthorne, Cohen also per­forms and records hip hop under the stage name Haircut, often as part of the groups Now On and Athletic Mic League. 


Mayer Hawthorne and The County will perform Saturday at Legends at the B1 Block Party from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. 


Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Thursday, August 26, 2010 page 9 
Cymbeline @ DPAC @ 7:30 p.m. C h e c k o u t W i l l i a m  Into the Woods @ Washington Hall Lab Theatre @ 7:30 p.m.  B1 Block Party @ B1 Parking Lot @5 p.m.  Kiss Me, Kate @ DPAC @ 2:30 p.m.  
S h a k e s p e a r e ’ s “ C y m b e l i n e ” t h i s w e e k a t D PA C , p u t o n b y t h e N o t r e D a m e S h a k e s p e a r e F e s t i v a l . T h e p l a y , a b o u t a p r i n c e s s w h o f l e e s t o t h e f o r e s t t o e s c a p e h e r e v i l s t e p m o t h e r, r u n s T h u r s d a y t h r o u g h S u n d a y a t D P A C . T h e s h o w i s a t 7 : 3 0 p . m . o n T h u r s d a y, 8 p . m . o n F r i d a y, 2 p . m . a n d 8 p . m . o n S a t u r d a y a n d 2 p . m . o n S u n d a y. T i c k e t s a r e o n l y $ 1 5 f o r s t u d e n t s a n d $ 2 5 f o r t h e  T h i s w e e k e n d , S t . E d w a r d ’s H a l l P l a y e r s p r e s e n t “ I n t o t h e Wo o d s , ” a m u s i c a l b y S t e p h e n S o n d h e i m . T h e s t o r y c e n t e r s o n u n c o n v e n t i o n a l l y d a r k r e t e l l i n g s o f c l a s s i c f a i r y t a l e s , l i k e L i t t l e R e d R i d i n g Ho o d , C i n d e r ella, J a c k a n d t h e B e a n s ta lk a n d Ra p u n z el . N o t r e D a m e s e n i o r B r i a n D a v e n p o r t d i r e c t e d , p r o d u c e d , a n d w i l l a c t i n t h e p l a y . “ I n t o t h e W o o d s ” r u n s F r i d a y a n d S a t u r d a y a t 7 : 3 0 p . m . a n d  This year, the B1 Block Party, spon­sored by Legends and located in the B1 parking lot just north of Legends, brings to campus great musical acts like Guster as well as Notre Dame’s own Nick Gunty and the Power 5 and Identity Crisis. DJ Fat Man Scoop will also be closing out the night, DJ-ing until 4:00 a.m. Tickets are only $10 for students, which gets you free food and non-alcoholic drinks from 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. as well as fun, free activi­ties and entrance to the concert. The doors open at 5:00 p.m., with Nick  Loosely based on and around William Shakespeare’s play “The Taming of the Shrew,” “Kiss Me, Kate” is a musical about a musical adaptation of “The Taming of the Shrew” and all of the hilarity and drama that surrounds putting on the production. Presented by the Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival, this special in concert production i s r u n nin g o n ly t h i s w e e k e n d , Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday a t 2 : 3 0 p . m . in t h e D e B a r t olo Performing Arts Center. Tickets  
g e n e r a l p u b l i c . T i c k e t s c a n b e p u r c h a s e d o n l i n e a t t h e D P A C w e b s i t e o r i n p e r s o n o r b y p h o n e a t t h e D PA C b o x o f f i c e .  S u n d a y a t 3 : 3 0 p . m . T i c k e t s a r e o n l y $ 5 f o r s t u d e n t s a n d $ 7 f o r e v e r y o n e e l s e . Ti c k e t s c a n b e p u r c h a s e d a t t h e L a F o r tu n e B o x O f f i c e .  Gunty playing at 5:30, Identity Crisis at 6:30, Mayer Hawthorne at 7:30 and Guster at 9:30. Tickets can be bought online at the Legends website or on-site starting at 5:00 p.m.  are just $15 for students and $25 for the general public. They can be p u r c h a s e d o n l i n e a t t h e D PA C website or in person or by phone at the DPAC box office.  
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu  


By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Scene Editor 
Most students are still settling into their dorms, but the cast and crew of the St. Ed’s Players have been spending the past two weeks crafting a twisted fairytale landscape in the labo­ratory theater on the third floor of Washington Hall. They will perform the Stephen Sondheim hit “Into the Woods” this 

weekend. 
Notre Dame senior Brian Davenport is directing, producing and acting in “Into the Woods.” After three years of building up his skills as a triple threat, he’ll be one of the pro­ducers for Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCo) this year. 
In an email with The Observer, Davenport explained the challenges and rewards of putting together a musical on such a tight schedule. 
Observer Scene: With 
this being the first weekend of the year, how did you manage to get “Into the Woods” together so quickly?What was that process like? 
Brian Davenport: The whole thing started as a semi-delirious finals week conversation at four in the morning with Carolyn Sullivan, who graduated last year and is co-directing with me. It struck us both as a pretty crackpot scheme at the time, but it also sounded really cool, and I base all major decisions I make on what sounds cool. We applied for the rights and began to gather a cast and crew in early July. Two weeks ago, the cast began to trickle back to school, and we began rehearsals. 
The process has alternated between exhilarating and absolutely terrifying. It’s been a team effort every step of the way, and it’s unthinkable that it could ever have come together without a group of people as talented and dedicated as the one that we’ve assem­bled. 
Why “Into the Woods?” What is your favorite part of this show, as a director and as an actor? 
BD: 


“Fractured fairy tales” were just about my favorite thing when I was a kid, because the real thing always struck me as a little ridiculous. What’s so great about this show is that it takes the fairy tales we know by heart and takes them seriously. Does Cinderella actually want the Prince to find her? Why is it okay for Jack to kill the Giant? What did the Giant ever do to anybody? Plus, musically, it’s just a gorgeous piece of work. 
I’ve wanted to put a musical up in the Lab Theatre, which is much smaller and more inti­mate, and I can’t think of a bet­ter candidate than this show. We’ve completely transformed the space. The floor has been painted like a forest, and the stage extends into the audience. The divide between actor and audience is somewhat removed. 
My favorite moments in the show as a director all come in the second act. The first act fol­lows Jack, Cinderella, Little Red Ridinghood, Rapunzel and many others into the woods and ends with everything tied up pretty neatly. Every character has more or less been granted their wish and seems well set up to live “happily ever after.” Then in the second act, every­thing just falls apart, and it’s great, because to even suggest that a fairy tale character would get anything other than a fairy tale ending is very unset­tling. As an actor, I just love the part I’m playing. “Into the Woods” is full of not-very-smart characters, and Rapunzel’s Prince is one of the not-very­smartest. That’s fun to play around with. 
Why should people come see this show? 
BD: If nothing else, this will be one of the best-looking pro­ductions you’re ever likely to see at Notre Dame. Everyone has been working around the clock to put together something really special. And it’s the per­fect opportunity for incoming freshmen to see what’s really possible in student theatre. Plus, our costumers built Rapunzel’s wig, which is at least eight feet long, from scratch out of yarn and Velcro. That’s rea­son enough. 
St. Ed’s Players will perform “Into the Woods” Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 3:30 p.m. at the Washington Hall Lab Theater. 
Tickets are $5 for students, $7 for general public and will be on sale at LaFortune Box Office, as well as at the door. 


Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, August 26, 2010 
NFL 



Owners push for 18 games 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — NFL owners are eager to increase the regular sea­son from 16 to 18 games. 
The players aren’t so sure. 
During a five-hour meeting at a posh hotel in downtown Atlanta, the push to add two more games to the regular season picked up steam Wednesday—at least among those who sign the checks. 
The owners also unanimously approved Stan Kroenke’s proposal to purchase majority ownership of the St. Louis Rams, assuming he turns over control of two other teams he owns—the NBA’s Denver Nuggets and the NHL’s Colorado Avalanche — to his son. 
Kroenke owns 40 percent of the downtrodden Rams and exercised his right to purchase the rest of the team from the Rosenbloom family for a reported $750 million. 
“Obviously, all of us know and respect Stan,” commissioner Roger Goodell said. “He’s been a terrific owner in the NFL and we’re confident he will continue to be a great owner.” 
Kroenke must turn over opera­tional and financial control of the Nuggets and Avalanche to his 30­year-old son, Josh, by the end of the year. He must give up his majority stake in the teams by December 2014 to meet NFL rules against cross-ownership of fran­chises in other NFL cities. 
But talks on the expanded sea­son dominated most of the meet­ing. 
Goodell pointed out that the league already has the right to impose an 18-game schedule— and keep four preseason games for each team—under the current labor agreement with the players. But that contract expires after this season, and it’s clear the expand­ed schedule will be a central issue in talks on a new collective bar­gaining agreement. 
The owners would like to keep the season at 20 weeks, reducing the number of preseason games from four to two. 
“We want to do it the right way for everyone, including the play­ers, the fans and the game in gen­eral,” Goodell said. “There’s a tremendous amount of momen­tum for it. We think it’s the right step.” 
The owners held off on voting on a specific proposal that could be presented to the players union. Among the issues that still must be resolved: when to start the expanded regular season, possible roster expansion to cope with more games, and changes in training camp and offseason rou­tines to come up with ways for evaluating younger players who wouldn’t have as many preseason games to make an impression. 
“We want to continue to address a variety of issues before putting together a specific proposal, which our negotiating team will provide 
NCAA FOOTBALL 



Meyer voices concern over Gators’ progress 
everything will be back to nor-
Associated Press 
mal when the Florida opens 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — Maybe Southeastern Conference play at it’s youth. Maybe it’s injuries. Tennessee on Sept. 18. Maybe’s it’s paranoia or possibly “If all our guys that are sup-a dose of reality. posed to be playing aren’t going, 
Whatever the case, Florida then we’re in panic mode,” coach Urban Meyer has con-Pouncey said. “We want all our cerns about his team. The guys to get back healthy and fourth-ranked Gators are a little then come back, especially by more than a week away from Week 3.” their season opener, and Meyer Meyer has other concerns, too. sounds like he just watched a Team chemistry, one of the replay of last year’s things coaches hoped to hone Southeastern Conference cham-during training camp, isn’t quite pionship game. where Meyer wants it. 
“I’m hitting the panic button a “I like our chemistry, where little bit,” Meyer said this week. we’re at. But I can’t say I love it “We’ve got to get better faster right now,” Meyer said. “I was than what we are right now.” hoping we’d be a little more 
Meyer’s worries stem from advanced. … I don’t feel the injuries to his offensive and urgency. I feel it among the defensive lines, resulting in coaches, because they know inconsistency from both units, what’s coming. Twenty-five and several highly touted fresh-young players that dominated men failing to meet expecta-like they did in high school have tions. He says it’s typical for no idea what’s about to hit coaches to be a little cautious them.” this time of year, especially after Florida recruiting class was putting players through gruel-ranked among the best in the ing, two-a-day country. practices in 90-Defensive end degree heat and R o n a l d
“I’m hitting the panic
then hoping they Powell, defen­
button a little bit.” 
won’t wilt. sive tackles 
He also may Dominique have gotten a lit-Easley and 
Urban Meyer 
tle spoiled Sharrif Floyd, 
Florida coach 

to the union’s negotiating team,” Goodell said. “There’s tremendous support for it. Almost all the ques­tions, all the discussions, are how to do it in a way that’s fan friend­ly.” 
Around the NFL, however, many players questioned the wisdom of making an already grueling sea­son even longer. At the very least, they want more money— and sev­eral proposed changes in the rules governing injured players, or adding an extra bye week to deal with the grind. 
“With 16 games, every game is important and therefore the fans are very into it, the stadiums are packed because they know if their team loses, it pushes them further and further away from making the playoffs,” Cincinnati quarter­back Carson Palmer said. “I think if you go to 18, each game kind of loses a little bit of its significance.” 
The players clearly expect to be receive a bigger chunk of the multi-billion-dollar NFL pie if they’re going to be putting their bodies on the line in two more games that count. 
“Obviously the players want to be compensated for two more games,” San Francisco 49ers line­backer Matt Wilhelm said. “That’s the one thing the players have to get met.” 
They are also concerned about an increased risk of injuries and fret that it could shorten their careers or increase the number of health problems they endure after retirement. 
“I would vote to eliminate two preseason games and then keep it at a 16-game season because the longer you’re out there playing, the more your body breaks down,” Chicago Bears tight end Desmond Clark said. “When you get into December, you’re like walking zombies. You can’t feel your joints.” 
Cleveland Browns linebacker Scott Fujita said the timing of the proposal is odd, considering the owners want the players to accept a smaller share of the revenue in the next labor agreement. 
“They are asking you to play more games and put yourself at more risk, and they are also ask­ing us to take a pay cut,” he said. “That’s a lot to ask. All those things don’t make a whole lot of sense. We need to sit down and talk through it all and find out what it is they’re really trying to do and see if it makes sense or not.” 
But Kraft said the expanded season is the most obvious step to bring in more money while the economy is struggling. 
“I really think going to an 18­game season is critical to us get­ting a labor deal,” he said. “There’s not a lot ways in this eco­nomic environment we can gener­ate incremental revenues. That’s the best way. 
“The other thing,” he added, “our fans have said pretty loud and clear they’d like us to have fewer preseason games.” 
Several players and coaches have pointed out that having only two preseason games would likely make it more difficult for fringe players to get enough of a look to make the team. 
Already, teams have been experimenting with joint workouts in training camp, believing those sessions could help replace the shorter preseason. This year, for instance, the Atlanta Falcons worked out with both New England and Jacksonville. 
“If it was a two-game presea­son, then the starters are going to see most of that time because they’ve got to get ready for the season, so if you’re third string, good luck,” said Indianapolis line­backer Gary Brackett, the Colts’ defensive captain. “When I was a rookie, I needed every bit of those four games.” 
But some figure it’s a foregone conclusion that the owners will get their way. 
“Personally, I don’t see how it helps the game, or the quality of the game,” said Barry Cofield, a defensive tackle for the New York Giants. “But if they demand it, they will probably get it.” 
watching Tim Tebow, Brandon Spikes and oth­ers sail through practices this time last year. Back then, Meyer had an entire two-deep roster returning from a national title team, and his biggest problem was finding ways to avoid com­placency. 
Now, the Gators are trying to solidify starters, identify play-makers and unify an inexperi­enced team that has nearly 70 freshmen and sophomores. 
Injuries have made it difficult. 
Left tackles Matt Patchan and Xavier Nixon have missed signif­icant chunks of fall practice. Patchan broke a bone in his right wrist and spent two weeks in a cast. Nixon sprained an ankle, then tweaked his left knee and had arthroscopic surgery Tuesday. 
Without them, right tackle Marcus Gilbert has moved to the left side, center Mike Pouncey has moved to right tackle and backup Sam Robey has taken over at center. 
Things are shuffled on the other side of the line, too, with defensive tackles Lawrence Marsh (hamstring) and Brandon Antwine (concussion) having missed time. 
Pouncey expects the offensive line to be shuffled for the first two games, against Miami (Ohio) and South Florida, but hopes safety Matt 
Elam, running 
back Mack Brown and receivers Quinton Dunbar and Chris Dunkley were considered the some of the best players at their position. But they haven’t totally impressed Meyer. 
“I was actually a little disap­pointed in some of them because I thought they’d go take a spot,” Meyer said. “A few of the guys are doing decent. … Some of those big-name guys, I thought we’d have some guys cracking the lineup right now. But they’re not yet.” 
Regardless, there’s plenty Meyer likes about his team. He has raved about quarterback John Brantley, cornerback Janoris Jenkins and receiver Carl Moore. 
Guard Carl Johnson has sensed Meyer’s uneasiness and believes he knows why Meyer has concerns about his team. 
“We relied heavily on the Tebows, (Riley) Cooper, Aaron Hernandez, Brandon Spikes and Joe Haden. We don’t have these players this year, obviously. We have a great quarterback, Brantley, but we don’t have that faction of Tebow, Hernandez and Cooper. We have to find other playmakers. That’s what he means about the panic button. We need more playmakers to have another great season.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

You know, in the ten years that I ing pillows $50. Call 574-654-3241 WEEKEND B&B FOR ND Down duvet comforter with match-DUBS’ INN coached, I never met anybody who
FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL 
wanted to win as badly as I did. I'd Part-time photographer, sales asso-SLEEPS UP TO 8 ADULTS. 
——————————————— GAMES/EVENTS 4 BR HOME 
do anything I had to do to increase Barely used Giant Cypress ST1020 my advantage. Anybody who tried 
ciate for JC Penney Portrait Studio, 4 bedroom 3 QUEEN, 2 SINGLE BEDS, 4 All you need to know is the job’s 19” women’s silver green bicycle. hours flexible, 2 bath COUCHES, 3 FULL BATHS. real, and the money’s real. to block the pursuit of that advan-Paid $500. Asking $235 OBO. Call 
salary depends on experience. tri-level in Arlington Heights-1 MILE FROM CAMPUS tage, I'd just push 'em out of the 574-654-3241 
Call Jackie 5 minutes from campus. FREE MEALS AND SHUTTLE ——————————————— way. Didn't matter who they were, ——————————————— 574-277-5638 New kitchen, bath. AVAILABLE, NON SMOKING. Just remember, ladies: We’re or what they were doing. But that 
Guitar- Jeff Hanneman 2400 fret or send resume $800/DAY. DUBS RETURNS Steds. was then. electric $265 OBO. Call Keith CALLS Call 574-233-2973. to smp0319@lifetouch.com 574-323-6273 (574-210-4030) And we have a Yacht Dance. You have special talent, a gift. 
——————————————— ——————————————— 
—————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Thursday, August 26, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 page 12 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August 26, 2010 Thursday, August 26, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 


MLB 



Down 10-1, Rockies rally to beat Braves 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Maybe early in the season, Colorado manag­er Jim Tracy pulls his starters and puts in a pitcher for mop-up duty. Not now, not with the Rockies trying to stay in the playoff race. 
Down 10-1 in the third inning, the Rockies did every­thing they could to come back. And they did, matching the biggest rally in team his­tory and stunning the Atlanta Braves 12-10 Wednesday on Troy Tulowitzki’s go-ahead RBI single in the eighth. 
“What an effort,” Tracy said. “The thing I’ve fallen in love with these players is they don’t quit. We were short­handed pitching and then offensively, here we go, and we started chipping away. This is the icing on the cake. 
The Rockies gradually cut into the deficit against the NL East leaders before taking the lead with four runs in the eighth. Carlos Gonzalez hit a tying, two-run single with two outs, and Tulowitzki and Todd Helton followed with RBI singles. 
The Rockies finished off a three-game sweep and won their fourth straight overall. The streak came after a skid that saw Colorado lose seven of 10 and drop behind in the wild-card race. 
Atlanta despite getting 10 extra-base hits, three more than Colorado. 
“This was a heck of a game,” Helton said. “It would have been easy to fold it up, but we didn’t. We went out there and had an unbeliev­able win.” 
Colorado also rallied from nine runs down to beat Florida 18-17 on July 4, 2008. 
The major league record for the biggest comeback is 12 runs — it’s happened three times, most recently by Cleveland against Seattle in 2001. The NL record of 11 runs has been done three times, with Houston doing it to St. Louis in 1994. 
With one out in the eighth and the Rockies trailing 10-8, reliever Jonny Venters (4-2) walked Chris Iannetta and Melvin Mora singled. One out later, Dexter Fowler walked and Gonzalez singled. Kyle Farnsworth relieved, and Tulowitzki and Helton deliv­ered their hits. 
“I got a couple pitches up, but I think the walks are what really did me in over­all,” Venters said. “This one hurts, but we’ve got a game day after tomorrow and we’ll get right back out there and try to win.” 

FIBA 



U.S. takes down Greece 87-59 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece — The United States breezed to one last exhibition victory before the start of the world basket­ball championships, not that coach Mike Krzyzewski seemed to care. 
He’s just happy that his group brimming with youthful exuberance is ready to play. 
“The score doesn’t really matter, it was just an exhibi­tion game,” Krzyzewski said after an 87-59 blowout of defending silver medalist Greece on Wednesday. “I’m happy we had the chance to play a great team, in a great atmosphere.” 
Eric Gordon scored 18 points to pace the Americans, who led from start to finish against a Greece team playing for the first time since a brawl near the end of an exhibition game against Serbia turned the focus of the upcoming world champi­onships away from the court. 
The incident happened dur­ing the Acropolis tournament last week, and officials from the international basketball federation FIBA are still reviewing details. Any sanc­tions are expected to be announced before the worlds begin Saturday in Turkey. 
The U.S. team, which is missing many of the stars that helped win Olympic gold two years ago, used superior quickness to disrupt Greece’s ball movement and clog pass-ing lanes. Greece wound up turning the ball over 24 times and was outrebounded 53-25, including 30-7 in the second half, when the game was largely decided. 

The U.S. led 22-14 after the first quarter and still hung onto a 42-32 halftime lead, before sealing the victory with a 28-12 run spanning the third quarter. 
The crowd, which was never to boisterous to begin with, was mostly silenced, and even the Greek basketball online sites blogged less about the game and more about Khloe Kardashian, who is married to Lamar Odom and attended the game. 
Greece figured to have a major size advantage, espe­cially considering the U.S. team doesn’t have a true cen­ter on its roster, but even that was negated when 6-foot-11 Yannis Bouroussis and 6-10 Sofoklis Schortsanitis sat out the game with injuries. Schortsanitis hurt his foot dur­ing warm-ups and was sent for an MRI exam. 
The smaller Americans took advantage, even with Tyson Chandler in foul trouble. Kevin Love played well in the second half and finished with eight points and a team-high 13 rebounds. 


page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, August 26, 2010 
field. It was a non-contact 

said. “She made three real we’re not keeping points off situation,” said Kelly, adding 
key one-on-one stops individ-the board.” 

Crist 
Honors 
the setback only created an 

ually against Milwaukee that Schuveiller also credited continued from page 16 opportunity for other line-
continued from page 16 I thought really helped us get the attitude fostered by the backers. 
the win and get us off on the seniors, who assisted her we need to be fully, but I “Next man in,” 
times to find its rhythm. A right foot. If those goals get transition from a raw talent think we’re definitely mak-Kelly said. “[Junior David] 
goal by junior forward scored, you don’t know what out of high school into an all­ing progress,” he said. Posluszny and [sophomore 
Melissa Henderson late in the happens.” around collegiate defender With a Sept. 4 date against Dan] Fox have been working 
second half secured a 1-0 Schuveiller said she views who started all 27 games as Purdue looming, Crist said a lot in there. We are not 
victory on Friday over the weekly honors as a team a freshman. the team does feel its pres-going to leave ourselves 
Minnesota (0 -1), but Irish achievement, and recognizes “Coming in as a freshman, I ence, but, as Kelly pointed shorthanded.” 
coach Randy Waldrum cred-the defense’s versatility and had seniors that really put out, needs to focus on the As for Slaughter, Kelly 
its the defense, particularly the added depth of the fresh-me in the right direction and time before the game first. said the training staff is 
Weiss, for creating that man class as contributing good upperclassmen that “I think everybody out simply being cautious with 
opportunity. factors in the two shutouts. showed me what it’s like to here wants to be playing the safety’s groin strain as 
“I thought Nikki kept us in “It’s definitely an honor, lead the younger players,” against Purdue right now, the team prepares for its 
both games,” Waldrum said. but I owe a lot of that credit she said. “So I gained a lot of right this second, ” Crist season opener, and Stewart 
“Minnesota had a couple of to my teammates, ” experience from them, and said. “But we understand and Rudolph are following 
chances to score early Schuveiller said. “I thought I’m trying to pass that on.” there is a lot of work left to similar routes with their 
against us, and didn’t, and we played so well defensively do and we have to make neck and hamstring injuries, 
that kept us in until we could in the back, and obviously I Contact Chris Masoud at strides in other directions.” respectively. 
get the game-winner.” can ’t win those awards if cmasoud@nd.edu Although, Rudolph said he 
The senior netminder Injury notes: could be healthy to play 
earned two shutouts over the 
weekend, holding the Golden junior tight end Kyle Sept. 4. 
• Three notable players, against Purdue even before 
Gophers scoreless with three Rudolph, fifth-year guard “I think if we had a game 
stops, while recording five Chris Stewart and junior this Saturday, I’d be ready 
saves against Milwaukee (2­safety Jamoris Slaughter, to go, but we’ve had our 
1-2). Weiss led the Big East worked out along the side-mind set on Purdue and 
last season with a 0.15 goals lines during Wednesday’s we’ve been moving forward 
against average in league practice, and one more, sen-every day,” he said. “We are 
play. ior linebacker Steve very fortunate it happened 
“I’m very grateful,” Weiss Paskorz, joined them off the this time of year when we 
said. “I didn’t have to do a field by the end of it. have the time to be very 
ton this weekend. I think Kelly said he did not know cautious about things.” 
Jessica deserved it more than much about Paskorz’s injury 
I did. I’m definitely honored, after practice. Contact Douglas Farmer at 
and it’s a step in the right “He stepped wrong on the dfarmer1@nd.edu 
direction for the team to have two defensive awards this week.” 
In addition to the confer-the Purdue Invitational and 
ence weekly honors, the other at the Illinois 
Schuveiller was also named 


Bayliss 
to the Top Drawer Soccer continued from page 16 19 to help the squad adjust Invitational from Sept. 17­
National team of the week, to playing at a high level. 
marking the second time the at the national level among “Being deep enough to do 
two-year captain has earned the incoming class, several this will give all of our play-
both conference and national players attained success ers the opportunity to play 
honors in the same season. A both on and off the court in higher positions than 
first team all-Big East selec­
tion as a sophomore, Dan Stahl competed in ATP It will allow us to know over the summer. Senior would normally be possible. 
Schuveiller led an Irish Future Events, while several where our guys are pretty 
defense that prevented sev­stayed on campus to take early in the fall.” 
eral Panther scoring chances summer classes. Bolstered by a strong 
from reaching Weiss on “Our summer school guys incoming class and a strong 
Sunday. made good strides, both on veteran presence, Bayliss is 
“She’s kind of the rock, our the court and in their per-confident in his team’s 
glue in the back,” Waldrum sonal conditioning,” Bayliss potential for the upcoming said. “Our freshmen were season. active in high-level junior “Assuming even marginal events. There were some growth from everyone, we injuries, but all players are should be good enough to back to speed, or very close beat elite teams this to it. The level of enthusi-spring,” Bayliss said. “Add asm is high, but it always is. to this mix some promising Everyone is undefeated and freshmen who are going to itching to get after it.” push for starting positions, 
The Irish face a tough fall and you have the potential schedule in preparation for for a memorable year.” their full schedule in the spring. Split into two Contact Kate Grabarek at squads, one will compete in kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
ready,” he has a good idea of who has been training 


Freshmen 
hard as the team goes continued from page 16 through its general condi­
tioning program this week. Award finalist Meg Ryan, With a mix of experience Illinois state champions and new, incoming talent, Kelly Curran and McKinzie Connelly said he thinks the Shulz, and Montana state Irish should have no prob-champion Alexa Aragon. lem improving upon where 
“It ’s still too early to they left off last season. make any predictions, but “Our biggest goal is to a lot of our expected con-get better,” Connelly said. tributors have come in and “We should have no prob-are very fit,” Connelly said. lem taking the rest from “They ’ve had good sum -there.” mers.” 

He added that while Contact Robert Graham at nobody is quite “race rgraham@nd.edu 




Thursday, August 26, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 






 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 




Sports 
Thursday, August 26, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Kelly frustrated with team’s lack of focus 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Only 10 days separate Notre Dame from a game that counts, but in Wednesday’s practice the Irish seemed to worry more about that game than the practice at hand. 
At least, that is what Irish coach Brian Kelly said was the cause for a sub-par prac­tice. 
“I’m actively involved in practice, so today I was a lit­tle more involved than I wanted to be,” he said after watching the Irish end prac­tice with a couple of mental mistakes. “The problem we have is our guys are starting the transition [to the regular season] before I want them to transition … They are thinking about Purdue and they have a couple more days of practice they have to stay focused on.” 
Junior quarterback Dayne Crist agreed with his coach’s assessment of the day. 
“Sloppy. [Today was] sloppy on all aspects,” Crist said. “Today was definitely not one of our better days. I can’t really pinpoint one thing or another, but tomorrow, we’ll be sure that we are that much better.” 



A step back 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Irish coach Brian Kelly, left, has a word with junior quarterback Dayne Crist during practice on Aug. 19. 
Kelly’s frustration after the some situations, the end of The red zone situations in practice stemmed from the game situations. We were particular troubled the Irish fact that the team has really focusing on those,” he offense, Crist said. already gone through more said. “This is really the cul-“We definitely need to con-than 20 practices, and mination of 20 -some -odd tinue to make strides in the Wednesday’s practice focused practices in covering all the red zone and aren’t where on only certain situations. situations that may occur in 
“Today we wanted to get in a game.” see CRIST/page 14 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 



Talented freshmen add depth 

By ROBERT GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
With the start of the new academic year comes a new set of even higher expecta­tions for a revamped Irish team. After placing 23rd at last year ’s NCAA Championships, the squad is looking to get off the bus running. 
Women ’s coach Tim Connelly said he is hopeful 
that this year’s squad  can  
make that happen.  
“ We  g r a d u a t e d  o u r  t o p  

runner, but we still have numbers two through seven in place, ” Connelly said. “We will look for them to have very strong seasons for us.” 
Senior Erica Watson, jun­ior Rachel Velarde and sophomore Rebecca Tracy will be key components in the squad’s overall success. Additionally, Connelly made a point not to overlook the very deep and talented group of freshmen that should contribute immedi­ately to the progression of this year’s team. 
Among some of the more notable incoming runners are Foot Locker High School 
see FRESHMEN/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 



Defense earns weekly honors 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
While two games is hardly a large enough sample size to make any predictions, posting back -to -back shutouts against Minnesota and Milwaukee to open the season may be an indication 
of 
things to come. Recognized for their efforts as stalwarts of the Irish defense, junior defender Jessica Schuveiller and sen­ior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss nabbed Big East Weekly Honors in the first announcement of the season. 

Although Notre Dame (2-0) has found the back of the net in its two contests, the 

offense 
has struggled at 


see HONORS/page 14 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Then-junior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss clears the ball during a Dec. 5 matchup against North Carolina in the semifinals of the College Cup. 
MEN’S TENNIS 



Improved Irish look to build off success 

By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Under the leadership of Irish coach Bobby Bayliss in his 24th season at the helm, the Irish look to continue last season’s success, when they finished second in the Big East after falling to then-No. 15 Louisville in the Big East championship match. 
“We return our top 10 players intact from last year’s squad,” Bayliss said. “That almost never hap ­pens, so experience is cer­tainly an asset this year. There is no reason that we should lose a match because we are not ready for what faces us.” 
While the Irish return their starting lineup from last year, they have also added a talented group of freshmen this fall that should make an immediate impact. 
“For the first time since I arrived at Notre Dame, we have two different freshmen who reached the finals in singles of one of the U.S. national events,” Bayliss said, “as Billy Pecor was a finalist in the US Winter Nationals, and Greg Andrews had the same fin­ish in the US Spring Nationals.” 
In addition to excellence 
see BAYLISS/page 14 





