the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Muslim students fit into life at Notre Dame 
Students say differences in religion do not inhibit college experience, enjoy spiritual atmosphere on campus 


By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Editor’s note: This is the sec­ond and final installment of a two-part series about Muslim 
students  who  att e nd  the  
University of Notre Dame.  
At  the  beginning  of  the  

school year, junior Yasir Malik 

woke up around 4:30 a.m. every day to scarf down some breakfast before falling back asleep until classes began. 
Despite the inconvenience, those five minutes were cru­cial to his day. That granola bar and bottle of water would be the only thing he consumed until the sun set later that evening — around 16 hours later. 
Malik and other Muslim stu­dents who practice Ramadan, which took place from Aug. 11 to Sept. 10 this year, abstained from food and drink from sun up to sun down. Despite fast­ing during a full schedule of classes and homework, Malik said it was a “fun month.” 
“The only time I ever really noticed it is when I got thirsty,” he said. “I never had problems with food. I watch the Food Network while I fast all the time.” 
According to the Office of Institutional Research, only 12 undergraduate students identi­fy themselves as Muslim at Notre Dame, a university with an undergraduate student body that is 84 percent Catholic. 
Yet, Muslim students said it was Notre Dame’s focus on religion, in part, that attracted them to attend in the first place. 
Sophomore Sadaf Meghani said she never wanted to go to a religiously affiliated school, but when she visited Notre Dame and saw the presence of religion on campus, she changed her mind. 
“I came here and there were crosses in all the classrooms and statues everywhere,” she said. “You would think it would turn me against coming here, but everywhere you went there was the reminder of faith and religion.” 
Malik also said the religious presence on campus was a positive factor for him. 
“I’ve always been a fan of just spirituality in itself,” he said. 
Junior Hiba Ahmed said Catholicism and Islam share 
see MUSLIM/page 5 


Two dorms subject to robberies 
Observer Staff Report 
Burglars entered Lyons and Dillon Halls Sunday and stole computers, cell phones and personal items, said Dave Chapman, assistant director for Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). 
The incidents were report­ed within two hours of each other, and the burglars did not force their way into the dorm or into rooms, he said. 
“How they got in [the dorms] is somebody had to let them in,” Chapman said. “They didn’t force their way in any of the rooms. The rooms were unlocked.” 
NDSP was not able to iden­tify or catch the suspects, and Chapman said he believes it to be an isolated incident. 
“Every once in a while we have this happen,” he said. 
see ROBBERIES/page 5 


Career Center hosts Arts &Letters week 
By MIKE BOCK 
News Writer 

The Career Center is focus­ing on internships, graduate schools and jobs for students in the College of Arts & Letters this week. 
The “What’s Next Week” events are geared helping Arts & Letters majors learn what they could do with their majors, said Rose Kopec, associate director of the Career Center. 
“We have something for everybody,” she said. “It doesn’t matter what year you are in school or what major you are pursuing, all Arts & Letters students are welcome to attend.” 
Compared to last year, the Career Center moved “What’s Next Week” from the first week of November to the first week of October so the stu­dents can take full advantage of the program, Kopec said. 
“[Applying to jobs, intern­ships and graduate school is 
a] very time consuming process and the sooner stu­dents getting started, the bet­ter,” she said. 
On Monday, the Career Center hosted an information session about the internship search. 
The next event is a Wednesday session about graduate and professional school, Kopec said. She said it is aimed at sophomores, juniors and seniors who want 
see CAREER/page 5 

MCOB prof. Mish embraces diverse spirituality 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 

For Jennifer Mish, a Mendoza College of Business marketing professor, working at Notre Dame allows her to apply her interests in both spirituality and sustainability to her job. 
Now in her second year at Notre Dame, Mish said she focuses her research and teaching on sustainability. In addition to teaching a survey marketing class for all busi­ness majors, she also teaches an elective course about mar­keting and sustainability. 
“Sustainability is often defined as living today in such a way that future generations are not com-pro mis ed. Consumption rates are increasing, yet the earth’s resources are finite,” Mish said. “We know that our cur­rent market system isn’t sus­tainable, and that our future system must become sustain-able. What we don’t know is how we will get there.” 

Mish said both her research and her elective course focus on how marketing will change and play a role in a sustainable future. 
“Almost every company is grappling with some aspect of this issue, but it’s so new that we don’t yet understand it very well,” she said. 
Mish said she finds Notre Dame to be a great atmos­phere for generating the type of vigor needed to approach these questions. 
“Notre Dame is a wondrous and unique place, where big, challenging questions are asked regularly and sincere­ly, and where the great ND family network reaches around the world,” she said. “I am honored to be a part of the ND tradition, and the Mendoza College of Business.” 
She also said that Notre Dame was a good fit for her spiritually, even though she personally does not restrict her spiritual life to Catholicism. 
“I love being at a Catholic university that is so embrac­
see MISH/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Campus Life Council page 3  OK Go comes to Legends page 9  Women’s soccer continues streak page 16  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 5, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE A NATURAL DISASTER, WHAT WOULD YOU BE AND WHY?
THE OBSERVER 





P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Douglas Farmer Megan Doyle Chris Allen Emily Schrank Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Marissa Frobes 
Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Megan Kozak 
OFFBEAT 

California prison bans visitor hugging and kissing 
BAKERSFIELD — A minimum security prison in California has banned hugs and kisses because authorities fear visitors are sharing a lot more than affection. Concerns about contraband have prompted officials at Lerdo Minimum Facility in Bakersfield to stop allowing inmates and visitors to share one brief hug and kiss. 
Sheriff’s Sgt. Ian Silva tells the Bakersfield Californian that in August, four visitors were found with contra­band, including a knife, a handcuff key, marijua­na, methamphetamine 
Kim Gaughan  Nick Eastman  Jackie Bowe  Andrew Ofsonka  
junior  junior  sophomore  junior  
Cavanaugh  off campus  Pangborn  Keenan  

“A blizzard for “Drought “A tornado “An earthquake poppin’ bottles because I have because I love because I shake in the ice.” a dry sense of my body like a things up.” 
humor.” cyclone.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

and drug paraphernalia. 
The touchy, feely times ended Friday. From now on, guards who see an inmate give a hug or a smooch will end the visit. 
Federal inmate sues over discarded sandwiches 
LORETTO, Pa. — An inmate of a federal prison in central Pennsylvania is suing, saying he was wrongly punished for “theft ” when all he did was take about 30 sandwiches that a vendor threw in the garbage while restocking a dining hall machine. 
Thirty -five -year-old George Crute III, is suing officials at the Federal Correctional Institution-Loretto over the Feb. 5 incident. 
Crute says he wrongly lost his “good conduct” time that would have shortened his sentence and his job as a clerk. 
Prison officials contend Crute took the sandwich­es out of the machine. 
The Tribune-Democrat 
of Johnstown says a guard claims Crute ran away with a garbage bag when an officer tried to question him. Crute ’s lawsuit says the sand ­wiches were fair game after the vendor tossed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

The seminar “Specifics of Ocean Turbulence Influenced by Topography” will take place today at 11 a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall Room 258. It is a part of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Series spon­sored by the Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences. 
The seminar “Micropatterned Surfaces for Manipulation and Monitoring of Cells” will take place today at 3:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall Room 138. Alexamder Revzin, associate professor of biomedical engi­neering at the University of California at Davis will pres­ent. 
The lecture “Sudan: Peace in the Balance” will take place today at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Three repre­sentatives of the Catholic bishops of Sudan will speak 
on peace and justice in southern Sudan. It is free and open to the public. 
Free seasonal influenza vaccines will be available Oct. 5-7 through University Health Services. Students, faculty, staff, retirees and spouses of retirees are encouraged to get these at Stepan Center. Today, the shots will be available from 1 to 9 p.m. 
The lecture “Bridging the Church and the Academy” will take place today at 7 p.m. in the Geddes Hall Coffee House. John Cavadini, professor of theology will present. The event is sponsored by the Notre Dame Echo Program. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


64 51 HIGH 7067 6768
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

43 43 LOW 5044 4547 






Tuesday, October 5, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

CLC addresses culture of students and alcohol 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) members shared updates on how the various recently established task forces have been progress­ing in their efforts to improve the Notre Dame student experience at Monday’s meeting. 
These task forces, new for this year, are dedicated to culture shift, discipline and residential life at Notre Dame, respectively. 

Student government president Catherine Soler began the dia­logue with a status report on the culture shift task force. 
“We discussed a lot of the data from the improveND survey,” Soler said. “One idea that we had ... is to have some sort of frosh-o, beginning of the year ... manda­tory presentation about alcohol.” 
Sr. Carrine Etheridge, rector of Farley Hall, suggested modifying existing programming, such as the “College HAS Issues” orienta­tion presentation and Students Preventing Acquaintance Rape (SPAR), rather than starting from scratch. 
“Maybe there’s not a need to reinvent the wheel, we can work with them [the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education] on what we already have,” Etheridge said. 
Corry Colonna, Zahm Hall’s rector, said it may be more effec­tive to deal with the topic of alco­hol apart from sexual assault, hookups and other issues. 
“Those are both great ... but I think alcohol should maybe be pulled out separately,” he said. “The quality of the programming and the way they’re marketing it to get people there will make a difference.” 
Knott Hall senator Alex Kasparie began the dialogue 
about discipline at Notre Dame, saying that most of the work done thus far involved clarifying existing rules rather than discussing modi­fication. 
Fr. Tom Gaughan, rector of Stanford Hall, 
said  the  two  
issues  they  
looked  into  
recently  were  

how long the University holds 

“We’re going to try to “We’re going to 
try to put togeth­
put together a 
er a working plan working plan for next for next semester, 
semester, because because there’s typically less pro­
there’s typically less 
gramming in the programming in the winter,” he said. winter.” Soler followed the task force updates with a
Nick Ruof 
discussion of an student body chief of upcoming pres-
staff entation to the 

onto disciplinary records and why rectors are not given discre­tion with off-campus first offens­es. 
The University holds onto records for seven years following graduation, “based on a federal guideline mandate,” Gaughan said. 
Regarding rector discretion in infractions off-campus, Gaughan said it is an issue of inconsistent enforcement and conflicting interests for rectors. 
“There was concern amongst students about discrepancies in how different rectors would han­dle it,” he said. “The primary role of the rector is pastoral, not law enforcement ... so there 
Mish 
continued from page 1 

“I love being at a Catholic university that is so embracing of diversity,” Mish said. “My spiritual life is eclectic. I have found great benefit from prac­ticing a number of faiths and spiritual traditions, including Buddhism.” 
She also said her spirituality inspires her to use integrity and inquiry in her research and teaching. 
“I love the truth, and it is sometimes mysterious,” she could be some potential conflicts there.” 
Chief of staff Nick Ruof intro­duced the topic of residential life. Ruof said the task force is con­centrating on maintaining the level of events on campus during 
the winter 
months. 

Uni ve r s ity ’s 
board of trustees, which CLC will give in joint efforts with the Office of Public Affairs. 
“We’ll be part of a larger con­versation about what’s going on, what happened earlier this semester and going forward,” Soler said. 
Commenting on a decrease in off-campus socializing, Soler said students being scared to go off campus is not a feasible long­term fix for police incidents. 
“We feel right now there’s a fear of going off campus,” she said. “And we don’t know if that’s a sustainable solution.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero02@nd.edu 

said. “I feel immeasurably blessed to be able to pursue truth using the scientific method in my work, and also to pursue truth within, using methods from many times and cultures.” 
Mish studied geography as an undergraduate at the University of Arizona, and went on to earn her MBA at the University of Montana and her Ph.D at the University of Utah. 
Yet learning in the class­room only scratches the sur­face of Mish’s educational experiences. She said her love of learning came from her family. 
“My grandmother was a psy­chology professor at a time when her employment con­tract said that she couldn’t marry or have children,” she said. “My mother established a recycling center when most people thought it was a ridicu­lous idea. It takes courage to trust our truest perceptions and values. This courage is so needed now in the world.” 
These examples from her family, paired with her pas­sion for education and for the earth, led Mish to take time off after her high school gradua­tion to work on fire crews for two years for the United States Forest Service. 
Mish said her most impor­tant message to students would be to find challenging experiences for themselves. 
“Find ways to have experi­ences and learn about the parts of life that take you out of your comfort zone, that you will not encounter otherwise,” she said. “Honor your deepest truths. Ask yourself every day how your life helps or hinders the lives of those to come.” 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 5, 2010 
Kozol talks on segregation 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The need for social reform within the education system was the main theme of best­selling author and former edu­cator Jonathan Kozol at his sold-out lecture in Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium on Monday night. 
The Office for Civil and Social Engagement (OCSE) at Saint Mary’s sponsored the lecture. 
Kozol, who has been involved with the education system for more than 40 years, said segre­gation is back in American schools and he’s witnessed “All year long, 

“Inequalitites are
it “from both everything is sides.” unmistakable to driven by the 
“Inequalities anyone who test. It excludes are unmistak-everything that 
walks into our
able to anyone won’t be tested, 
who walks into pubic schools.” robbing urban our public children of the schools, but entire richness of 
Jonathan Kozol 
even more dis-curriculum and 
former educator 
heartening, black and Hispanic children — in the present moment, in the present year, 2010 — are more isolated mentally and more segregated physically than in any time since 1968,” Kozol said. 
Kozol, who has written sever­al books on segregation in the public school system, discussed the state of education in America using his own experi­ences. A Harvard graduate and former Rhodes scholar, Kozol started his teaching career in what he said was the poorest area of Boston, teaching fourth grade. 
According to Kozol, the con­ditions of the school were poor, and he taught class in an audi­torium he shared with another fourth grade class. 
“My students had had a string of 12 different teachers in the previous two years,” Kozol said. “This string of instability of faculty is still the case today in far too many of today’s inner-city schools.” 
Kozol also discussed his frus­trations with the standardized testing that is the driving force of most public school curricu­
lums. 
capaciousness of 
culture that won’t be on the test,” Kozol said. 
Kozol said the arts, and even recess, have been dialed back or removed from some schools that struggle to maintain stu­dent test scores. He said some schools in Atlanta no longer build playgrounds for their ele­mentary schools. 
Kozol also said his “rich white friends” and politicians do not want to talk about these issues. He said many people do not like to hear what he has to say, but that isn’t going to stop him. 

“I’m too old to bite my tongue, and I don’t really care what happens to me now and no matter what the price I have to pay, I intend to keep on fight­ing in this struggle to my dying day,” Kozol said. 
During the lecture, he dis­cussed his work with one first grade teacher whose class was made up of low-income, minor­ity students. He said she was not going to always center her class on the standards, but rather try to make learning enjoyable. 
“It was of consummate importance to give her children opportunities to speak their minds, indulge their curiosities so that they would think of learning as an exciting pilgrim­age rather than a forced march to a pre-established destina­tion,” Kozol said. 
Schools with students who are what Kozol referred to as privileged youth allow for a much less rigid education, he said. 
“If it’s good enough for the son of a president or the daughter of a rich CEO, then it’s good enough for the chil­dren of the poorest mother in South Bend,” Kozol said. 
Kozol ended his lecture with a lesson he said he’s learned as time goes on. 
“Life goes so fast — use it well.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Badin hosts challenge for poverty awareness 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

Freshmen Angie DiNinni and Margo Kurtzke of Badin Hall are making poverty awareness a hall-bonding event. 
The 15-day challenge involves doing one thing each day to better understand poverty, Kurtzke said. Twenty Badin residents began the challenge on Friday by giving up comfort and sleeping on the floor without pillows or blankets. 
“I just wanted to get wrapped up in a blanket and crawl in my bed, but I could-n’t,” Kurtzke said. 
DiNinni had the idea to do this challenge because she had previously done a 30-day version of the same thing. 
“My cousins did this at their church, and then I did it with my family,” DiNinni said. 
Kurtzke decided to get involved when she heard DiNinni talk about the experi­ence. 
“We’re roommates and I thought it sounded cool,” Kurtzke said. “We decided to get Badin to do it.” 
On Saturday, participants performed three random acts of kindness. 
“I was headed to the dining hall wearing shorts. It was cold outside, so Ashley, a girl doing the challenge, gave me her sweatpants,” Kurtzke said. “It was really funny.” 
Other challenges include going without shoes, carrying a bucket of water around for the day and a 30-hour fast from food. 
Many of the girls taking part of the program are not looking forward to the day without shoes, however, that is the day DiNinni and Kurtzke said they are looking forward to the most. 
The challenge also includes a fast from options, which involves wearing the same clothes two days in a row. 
“When I was in high school and did this, the fast from options was on a Friday and Saturday. I had to wear my school uniform skirt and polo on a Saturday, “ DiNinni said. “Everyone kept asking me what I was wearing.” 
DiNinni said the challenge makes participants think about what it would be like to live in poverty. 
“You think of people who live this way every time you’re inconvenienced,” she said. 
The challenge is also a bonding experience for the participants, DiNinni said. 
“When I did it with my fami­ly it was a bonding experi­ence. The same thing is hap­pening in Badin,” she said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, October 5, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Lecture analyzes border deaths 

By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Death is a powerful and interesting thing, according to Lawrence Taylor, vice presi­dent of international affairs and professor of anthropology at the National University of Ireland. 
Taylor gave a lecture titled “Death in the Desert: Conflicting Moral Geographies on the U.S. Mexico Border” Monday at the Vander Vennett Theatre in the Saint Mary’s Student Center. 
Taylor said death is often used as an event to promote certain ideas to bring about change. 
In his lecture, Taylor dis­cussed two such examples in which death encouraged new legislation pertaining to the 
U.S. Mexico border. 
The first event was the death of 14 people who were lost in the desert in an attempt to cross the U.S.-Mexico bor­der in May 2001. 
“All you have to do is get lost, and that’s what hap­pened,” he said. “These were people entering the United States without papers.” 
Taylor said an inexperienced smuggler was leading the 
Career 
continued from page 1 
to learn about the applica­tion process from a panel of experts. 
Several companies — including AT&T, Cummins and Target — will be at a Thursday networking event. These companies value Arts immigrants, believed he saw the headlights of a border patrol car and led them off course. 
The second event Taylor dis­cussed was the death of Kris Eggle, a U.S. park ranger who was killed in August 2002 while in pursuit of a Mexican hitman who had crossed the border to escape the Mexican police. 
“Park rangers in this part of the world are very often trained in enforcement,” he said. “The enforcement that they’re looking for is not somebody who is lighting ille­gal campfires, but drug smug­glers.” 
According to Taylor, differ­ent groups involved in border issues used these deaths in an attempt to gain support for their causes. One such group was Humane Borders, an activist group that places water tanks in various loca­tions in the desert so immi­grants who cross the border do not die of thirst. A rival group, Taylor said, is the Minutemen, seeks better bor­der patrol to prevent immi­grants from entering the United States. 
Taylor said Humane Borders attempted to use the 14 deaths as a way to gain per­
& Letters majors who want to go into business, Kopec said. 
“Students should come pre­pared with employers who already recognize the impor­tance of their skills and background,” Kopec said. 
In addition to this week’s events, the Career Center had funding opportunities dedicated to Arts & Letters students. Last year, the mission to make water tanks available in the desert. 

“With the 14 who died … a group of local activists, includ­ing some attorneys, who are pro-immigrant, decided to sue the Department of the Interior for the deaths,” he said. “The argument for that was that Humane Borders, had previ­ous to the deaths by about a month, a month and a half, had gone to the … refuge peo­ple who directly control that, and asked for permission to put water tanks out, and were turned down.” 
According to Taylor, this tac­tic was unsuccessful in its attempt to gain support for the pro-immigrant cause. 
With the other death event, Taylor said Eggle’s parents visited the border and spoke with a number of anti-immi­gration groups. The story gained media attention, and eventually, legislation was passed to pay for a Kris Eggle Memorial Fence, which would be erected on the border. 
“Some people say ‘I now know or believe my child died for a purpose,’ and that pur­pose is often legislative,” he said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
University distributed over $300,000 to students for var­ious paid and unpaid intern­ships through the Rogers Arts and Letters Internship Program, the Global Internship Initiative, INC @ ND, Alumni Legacy Fund and the Gluck Pioneer Internship Program. 
Contact Mike Bock at mbock@nd.edu 
Muslim 
continued from page 1 

many beliefs, including the creation stories, the idea of giving to the less fortunate, and the belief in prophets. Muslims recognize Jesus as a prophet, but not as God. 
“We believe that everything he did, he actually did except he’s not God,” Ahmed said. “All those miracles he did, they are miracles for us too.” 
Malik said the similarities between Islam and Catholicism make it easy to relate to other students. 
“The whole idea of just being a good person everywhere you go,” he said. “It’s definitely not hard to relate to people here.” 
Meghani said she enjoys Notre Dame students’ interest in religion, even though it is not her own religion. 
“My roommates and my friends, they go to [dorm] Mass and they celebrate Easter and they do things like that,” she said. “We’re all really faithful. I think it’s more about faith than it is about religion.” 
Meghani said other students often question her belief in the prophet Muhammad — some ask because they are curious and others ask to attack her belief. But she said this has made her a stronger Muslim. 
“It puts my faith on the spot where I have to reason through things, and that’s really helpful,” she said. 
In general, Meghani said Notre Dame students are tol­erant of her religion. 
“I think people here are pretty open-minded. It would be better if people were a little more open-minded,” she said. “But at the same time, you can only ask so much.” 
For Malik, his religion and the associated behavior — fasting during Ramadan and abstaining from alcohol and dating — have not been an issue at Notre Dame. 
“[Notre Dame students] are the most tolerant college stu­dents you’ll find anywhere because religion is so impor­tant to them,” he said. 
Malik told his friends that he doesn’t drink once when he first met them and “it’s never come up again.” 
Despite Islam’s strict rules regarding alcohol and dating, Ahmed can enjoy going to par­ties with her friends and said she is not offended that other students drink or date. 
“I think anything related to how you spend your time on the weekends and what you do is a very personal choice,” she said. 
But being Muslim, and a minority, at Notre Dame is not without its drawbacks. 
“Before I came here, I was hoping there would be a closer knit Muslim community because that’s how my parents were raised and that’s how I was raised,” Meghani said. “Then I come here and it’s like, oh my gosh, ... what am I supposed to do?” 
Though the Muslim Student Association (MSA) exists on campus, it has only three active members, including Malik and Ahmed. 
“We’re all juniors,” Malik, vice president of MSA, said. “Next year is our last year here. I don’t know what we’re going to do.” 
Another issue is that the din­ing halls do not provide halal meat, which is the Muslim ver­sion of kosher meat, Ahmed said. It is slaughtered in a way that causes minimal pain to the animal and a prayer is said before the animal is killed. 
As a result, Malik consumes a vegetarian diet when on campus. He said he does not expect the dining hall to accommodate the very few Muslims on campus, but he misses his mother’s spicy, tra­ditional cooking. 
“I’ve never regretted a day that I come here, except for the days I have nothing to eat in the dining hall,” he said with a laugh. 
Ahmed recognized that she stands out as a Pakistani and a Muslim at this predominant­ly white, Catholic university, but said that doesn’t mean she doesn’t fit in. 
“I feel really, really wel­come,” she said. “I look back on it and I know this is where I’m meant to be for my college experience.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Robberies 
continued from page 1 

Chapman encouraged stu­dents to report anyone who suspiciously attempts to enter a dorm or is seen inside. 
“If someone tries to get in their dorm they don’t know or looks like they are tailgating them in, they should ask them, ‘Who are you here to see? Why are you here? ” Chapman said. “Things like that.” 
He also encouraged stu ­dents to call NDSP if they see anyone in dorm hallways that seems unfamiliar or out of place. 
“That’s what we’re going to need to catch these people,” he said. “We need the stu­dents’ help.” 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, October 5, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Sweater weather 

While lounging beside the pool in the middle of July, autumn is viewed with longing. Being wel­comed back to our gorgeous campus by our best friends consumes the minds of many 
Notre Dame Courtney Cox students. We 
Assistant 
look forward to 

Scene Editor 
“sweater weather” with all the enthusiasm of our beloved cheerleaders. 
Autumn is upon us and it is full of awkward moments that many may have forgotten in the process of idolizing fall in South Bend. We may have entered the season of fall, but many of us are still clinging to the last days of summer. 
Before leaving in the morning I must stop and contemplate, do I really need a jacket? Mornings at Notre Dame are freezing, but many suffer through the 15-minute walk across the quad without a coat and reap the benefits when they are able to show off how comfortable they are in the afternoon sun. 
Classrooms are decidedly hit or miss as well. When contemplating wearing a skirt, I must actively think through the buildings I will enter. Entering DeBartolo can be an arctic tundra one day, but a stifling desert the next, hence the diversity of clothing seen as appropriate dur­ing this season of transition. Sitting in class, surveying the shoes of my fellow students, I notice the stark contrast between one girl sitting in shorts and flip-flops and another in jeans and Uggs. When will the day come that all students collectively decide that it’s too cold to be con­sidered Summer. 
It’s perhaps even more awkward for freshmen. Before they set foot on campus for the semester they are told not to bring too many clothes. In the heat of summer it can be easy to believe that summer will undoubtedly last until fall break and a sweatshirt will suffice for the time leading up to break. 
Clothing is not the only aspect of student life that suffers through an awkward period of transition. This being the beginning of October many students wonder if it is too early to begin relying on the dorm heating. Old dorms become perme­ated with the smell of ancient radia­tors, but the windows remain open so as not to truly give in to the idea that summer is truly over. 
While kids from Texas bundle up and try their best to deal with the cold, New Jersey folks leave their windows open in the hopes that it might somehow beckon summer back to our welcoming campus. 
Whichever camp you fall into it is clear that there is an awkward divide between those willing to accept fall in all its glory and those who choose to deny its coming. In the weeks leading up to fall break we will collectively play limbo between the two seasons. When returning after a week away, it will become undeniable. It will be time to close our windows, crank the heat and truly embrace sweater weather. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
Go ahead and judge me 
Here is a cold, hard truth about col­lege: everyone judges. People judge others while walking on the quad, while eating in the dining hall, while studying and while sitting in class. In 
fact, someone is  
probably judging you right now as  Andy Ziccarelli  
you’re sitting and  Moment of  
reading this.  Inertia  
Most of the time,  
snap judgments  

are based on petty, superficial things like what you’re wearing, or a really short quote that someone overheard out of context. Now, a lot of the time, those snap judgments are right (isn’t that the best when you finally meet someone who is exactly like you pic­tured in your mind?), but sometimes they’re not. Obviously, we can’t stop this from happening, as there is no way that you could truly get to know everyone that you come in contact with. It’s just not possible. But the fact that people will always be making silent decisions about personality and character frightens some, and that causes them to act or dress differently than they normally would. 
For a while, as a freshman, I was one of those people. I was terrified of what people thought of me and, because of that, I was extremely care­ful with how I acted and tried not to let my true quirky, engineer self come out. Things changed, though, one day as I sat in my 8:30 a.m. Physics I class taught by the goofiest, most painfully awkward professor I’ve ever had. Somewhere in between his terrible physics puns (that only I laughed at), I 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
looked to my left and to my right and realized that I was the only one in my row that was even awake. And not only was I awake, I was thoroughly engaged. I thought what we were learning was awesome. And at that point, I realized that it was worthless to try and fight who I really was and to try and obscure it from other peo­ple. 
In hindsight, there were obvious signs that I could never be anything but an engineer. More specifically, I am a huge structures nerd. Buildings are awesome. While most middle schoolers bought the new college foot­ball video game every year, picked the best team and worked for countless hours searching through the playbook for the few plays that were completely unstoppable, I did something differ­ent. I would go to the team selection screen and choose the “preview stadi­um” option. That would take you to a mode where the camera would be sta­tioned at midfield and you could move and rotate all the way around the vir­tual stadium, just looking at the cool things like how big the press boxes were, how many scoreboards there were and whether or not there were double decked stands in the end zone or on the sideline (those were the best). I would spend hours on the game not even playing it, just looking around at the all of the different styles of stadiums. Naturally, I picked favorites (Penn State and Texas A&M, in case you were wondering). But it’s no wonder why I always got destroyed when I decided to challenge my friends in an actual game. I was too busy being a nerd to practice. 
And now that that little nugget is out for all of campus to read, I might as well own up to everything that peo­ple would judge me for. I have never read the Harry Potter books. I actually love cold weather. Jon and Kate Plus 8 is one of my favorite TV shows of all time. I’ve never left the country and, frankly, don’t have any desire to. Oh, and I love Kelly Clarkson and would totally go to one of her concerts if it wasn’t really creepy to go alone as a 21-year-old male. 
Look, everyone here is a nerd in some way or another. This is Notre Dame. But that doesn’t have to have a negative connotation. I may be a structures nerd, but other people may be finance nerds, or music nerds or philosophy nerds. Whatever people find that sparks their interest and drives them to learn as much as they can about it (even outside of class) is a good thing. Being quirky is even bet­ter. People’s slight little tweaks and habits are what keep us from all being cut out of the exact same mold. You would be foolish to try and obscure your quirks from the world. Face it, people are going to judge you whether you want them to or not. But at least, when they do, make sure that it’s the real you. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He welcomes your adulation and veiled threats at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The question should be, is it worth trying to do, not can it be done.” 
Allard Lowenstein American Politician 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“A preoccupation with the futurenot only prevents us from seeing thepresent as it is but often prompts usto rearrange the past.” 
Eric Hoffer American Author and Philosopher 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 5, 2010 page 7 
Cloud Machines 
There is a cloud machine that rises up behind what was my one-room apartment this summer in Mannheim, Germany, a factory belching out fluffy whiteness into the blue expanse above. It doesn’t 
William Stewart 
rain much during the summer in the 

Guest 
Rhine Valley, so 

Columnist 
one begins to ques­tion if the clouds whose only purpose is offering the occasional, passing shade onto a lazy Sunday nap along the river, really are clouds. Walking back home in the early afternoon, I would watch the wispy cotton puffs progress slowly past overhead and smile at the smoke­stack from which they came. 
This smokestack, though, and its many other brothers planted through­out the skyline like a series of fence posts truly define Mannheim, both in marking the geographical edge of the city and being the primary shapers of the area’s economy. With the European industrial headquarters of John Deere, a large Mercedes-Benz bus plant, as well as the national headquarters of BASF just across the river in Ludwigshafen, the metropoli­tan region created at the crux of the confluence of the Rhine and Neckar rivers in western Germany is unabashedly blue-collar. The stock markets and skyscrapers are half an hour north in Frankfurt, while the tourists flock to the picturesque Altstadt in Heidelberg, twenty minutes to the east. But in Mannheim, the rent is low, the architecture functional, the downtown modest, and the life com­pletely routine. My study abroad offered few postcard views or histori­cal monuments with which to associ­ate it. 
But did I really need (or want) that? We live in such a marvelous capsule here of picturesque quads and land­marks recognized by the majority of Americans, it can be refreshing in a way to leave it behind for a few months to experience how the other 
99.9 percent exists. If I wanted my summer to be a time of escape, then I had to separate myself from this per­ceived perfection here if I wanted to claim with any honesty that I achieved a removal from what I experience during the rest of the year. 
Simply put, during my two months in Germany, I lived in a situation that was truly mundane. But I use the word mundane to mean something slightly different than the often-nega­tive connotation that is carries. I use mundane here to mean ‘worldly’, ‘rou­tine,’ ‘normal.’ True, my weekend excursions this summer to other, larg­er cities often devolved, just like the days during a previous vacation to Italy, into a collage of tourism and a checklist of clichéd landmarks. I do not doubt that any experience travel-ling abroad holds value, even if the that picture taken while preventing the leaning Tower of Pisa from crash­ing to the ground gets counted among the high points of the trip. But the time in Mannheim revealed something that no visit to the Berlin Wall or the Vatican could: a taste and understand­ing of real life in Europe. True, if I ever find myself vacationing in Germany later in my life, I will proba­bly stop in Mannheim only to change trains. Yet the summer experience in this middle-sized, middle-class, mid­dle-aged metropolis taught me more about the daily routine, the neighbor­hood cafes, the four stores in all of downtown open on Sunday, the blue-collar regulars at bar on the corner, the absolute stillness that fills the streets between 4:00 and 5:00 a.m., what it truly means to be a citizen of Germany, of Europe, than any double-decker tour bus could ever offer. 
Mannheim, with its proud fence of 
smoking white towers, offers its visitor an unadulterated, non-masqueraded snapshot of the German life, a picture wholly unconcerned with upholding appearances, impressions and reputa­tions. The society I joined for two months is far from high, but rather, about as average as they come. And though, as students at this university, that word may have been crossed-out again and again in our mental lexicon, I couldn’t think of a more inviting description for last summer’s home: average, maybe, but without a doubt, real. There is invaluable worth in the experiences generated from an envi­ronment of normalcy, of reality. 
The cloud machines behind my win­dow are the paradox that they symbol­ize: enormous pipes of exhaust and waste from the dirtiest labor trans­formed into the transcendental objects of lazy day dreams, reveries that float past slowly for all the city to gaze upon. It doesn’t take an Eiffel Tower or a Statue of Liberty to build a city of dreams. 
William Stewart is a junior. He can be contacted at wstewar1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘When The Breaks Are Beating The Boys … ‘ 
Look, upperclassmen, I under­stand. I know that I wasn’t here for the 3-9 season; I know that I have not lived through the disappointment of the past three years from the stu­dent section. I 
Sienna Combs 
don’t know what, if anything, I 

Guest 
could reasonably 

Columnist 
expect from you in terms of confi­dence in or enthusiasm for our foot­ball team. But that doesn’t mean that anything less is expected of you in terms of being Notre Dame students. 
Being a Notre Dame student means that you understand that you are a part of something bigger than your­self: you are a part of this University and the spirit of this University in a way that nobody else can be. Especially since you are upperclass­men, I can barely imagine how much this place means to you. Even if you continue to be unsupportive on Saturdays, I won’t question that. But I honestly just don’t understand how you can be so vitally linked to this University and then come out to the stadium for the game and completely miss the point. 
How can you still be operating under the delusion that “Notre Dame Football” (or more accurately, the Notre Dame football experience) has anything whatsoever to do with foot­ball?!? It’s not about the football! It’s about the unity, it’s about the spirit, it’s about the love that people all over the country (and certainly all over this campus) feel for this University. It’s about being crazy, being unrelenting, it’s about being stubborn and biased and Irish. It’s about making the stadium go nuts every week simply because everyone there is crazy for Notre Dame. That is what makes this place so unique, and we students are responsible for maintaining it. 
It’s not about football. But just for a second, let’s talk about football. Do you have any idea how much your lack of enthusiasm is a self-fulfilling prophecy? Every time you don’t cheer, it is that much easier for an opposing team to come into our house and go about their business as usual. Every time you don’t encour­age the team, there is an Irish foot­ball player looking up and seeing that you don’t care. Every time you leave early, there is a football recruit sitting along the sideline seeing that the students here apparently aren’t going to support him, and that maybe all the talk about the intangi­bles of Notre Dame stadium were just more delusional talk on the part of our fan base. That is a recipe for football disaster. 
I only ask two things of you. No. 1: Thank Brian Kelly. He and the entire football staff have so far assembled a recruiting class good enough to be ranked 5th in the nation even with­out the usual game day atmosphere. In addition, he has managed to moti­vate the team without the insane level of student support that any Irish coach should be able to expect (and that every previous Irish coach has had). Forget the wins and losses for a second — this is, and always was, a team in the process of a major rebuild. Coach Kelly has already bailed out the entire Notre Dame stu­dent population on two massive fronts. No. 2: Think about yourself as a Notre Dame student. You don’t have that many home games left. And after that last home game, you will never again stand in the student section and sing the Alma Mater. The years will pass, and I think you will come to realize that it doesn’t matter whether you were singing after a win or a loss. It matters that you were there, that you were a part of it, and that you sang. 
Sienna Combs is a freshman. She can be contacted at scombs@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR Notre Dame’s Coming Out Day 
As you may or may not know, National Coming Out Day 2010 is next Monday, Oct. 11. This is an internationally recognized day of civil-awareness that encourages dis­cussion of GLBT issues. And recently, there has been much to discuss. (Just to name a few: Nationally, the recent disappointment in repealing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, and on campus, AllianceND was again denied club status while the non-discrimination clause still excludes homosexuality.) 
Due to midterms week, the Progressive Student Alliance is estab­lishing the celebration of Notre Dame’s Coming Out Day on Friday. Wear your ALLY pin and join us on South Quad to celebrate. Activities include decorating a closet, eating rainbow baked goods, learning more about campus resources, signing the Ally pledge and engaging in discus­sions on improving acceptance here at Notre Dame and throughout the nation. 
To clarify, this is not a rallying-cry to expose those closeted on campus. We want Friday to be a day to cele­brate self-identity, and we encourage anybody who wants to participate to “come out” of our closet in your own way. “Come out” as an Art History major, as a pacifist, as a cat-person, as gay, as straight, as a chef, whoev­er you are! Whether you’re a mem­ber or a supporter of the GLBT com­munity, be proud of who you are and show your support for equality next Friday. 
To learn more about Coming Out Day — www.hrc.org 
For more about the Progressive Student Alliance, find us on Facebook. 
Joanna Whitfield 
junior 
Welsh Family Hall 
Oct. 3 

The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, October 5, 2010 
The Situation: Music hunters seek, read, blog and cull music from radio, print and most often, the interwebs. Music gatherers collect mix CD’s, free digital downloads and whatever their friends happen to be listening to. If you are a gatherer, this space is for you. If you are a hunter, e-mail me your latest find, and I promise you’ll find it written up here. 
(Seriously. E-mail. Even if you’re not a stu­dent.) 
Let’s face it. Right now, academia is sucking all the joy, motivation and warmth out of our lives. (Yes, I blame school for the weather suddenly taking a sharp turn into the neigh­
borhood of “horribly cold”). The leaves may be looking lovelier every day, but they only herald the inevitable: fall break is coming, and that means midterms. So don’t pack up your flippy floppies just yet, because first you must survive the backbone of the education system: Midterm Week of Frustration and Hell. 
Though the only desire for music anyone has right now is to blast Katy Perry and dance around like a mindless fool, that doesn’t exact­ly facilitate focused study (at least, for most). For your listening pleas­ure, I present a slew of movies that have scores perfectly fitted to keep your head in your laptop. 


Michael Nyman, “The Piano” 
Nyman coined the term “minimalism.” (No, seriously, he used the word in a review in the sixties.) Since then, Minimalism has become a term embodying the most recent major movement in “classical” music. And where does today’s “classical” music live? The movies, of course. This soundtrack not only features solo piano pieces that will send your brain into overtime (writing that paper) but also orchestral movements that are compelling without being distracting. 
Thomas Newman, “Wall-E” 
Right now you’re thinking, man, I can’t believe I haven’t listened to that yet! Want to know how to make a successful movie with zero talking for the first 45 minutes? Get Newman to write the music. Not only will it keep your mind on your work, it will lift your heart just a little bit with every musical “ha!” 
Danny Elfman, “Alice in Wonderland” 
Pretty much anything this man has done is prime- pickings for good study music. His latest endeavor is a fair balance of signature Tim Burton choral creepiness and strong woman power “movie music.” As Elfman’s list of films grows, his sound matures. The music of “Alice in Wonderland” is tightly knit and refreshingly cohesive. 
Hans Zimmer, “Inception” 
I’m pretty sure everyone was too busy thinking, “Woah, woah, wooooah!” during this movie to pay specific attention to the music, but it is not to be missed. Lots of deep throbbing bass and low, brassy horns ground this score as a sweeping epoch of sound. The ominous pulsing horns will keep you awake without shocking you every three minutes, as most action film scores are want to do. Just don’t listen to it at 2 a.m. in the darkest corner of the library. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

By DECLAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Writer 

Just to get these things out of the way upfront, “Let Me In” is a vampire movie, and it’s a remake of a Swedish-language movie “Let the Right One In” released two years ago. The plot of example, Abby (Chloë Moretz) attacks and feeds on a random man she finds 
— a spine-chilling moment. 
However, in the next scene she is at Owen’s (Kodi Smit-McPhee), slipping in through the window and falling asleep next to him in one of the most tender moments of the movie. She also won’t let him look 
and even those seem weak at best. 
Abby is a vampire, which pretty much sums up her feels of isolation. It’s clear from the start these two kin­dred souls will end up together; how­ever, how that’ll happen is the journey of the movie. The power in the rela­tionship switches dramatically from 
the start to end line that definitely doesn’t have the best cred recently—it navigates the waters skillfully with equal focus on the innocence of the relationship between Abby and Owen and the ani­malistic brutality of Abby’s concealed nature. 

Moretz and Smit-McPhee are superb in this movie, traversing heavy adult 

of movie, with themes with the naivety of tween that of its Swedish predecessor. Even of her modesty, but 
“Let Me In” does not stray too far from at her, not because 
Owen starting puppy love that comes across as total-some of the scenes are shot and cho-because she is still 
out as the sad, ly genuine. reographed very similarly, and it does covered in blood. 
mopey kid look-Matt Reeves, directing his first fea­carry many tropes of the vampire It’s that last bit 
ing for love in ture since “Cloverfield,” does imitate genre: forbidden romance, fatal weak-that makes these 
the mysterious many of Tomas Alfredson’s (director of nesses and a desire to be normal, but scenes so intrigu­
girl next door, “Let The Right One In”) shots and at least they left out the sparkles. ing and makes 
and ending with angles during the most powerful That being said, even if your affinity them something 
Abby trying to scenes. Yet he adds enough of his own for vampire movies is lacking, this is unseen in any 
get Owen to to touches—including an excellent use still a must-see movie. Everything that other movie — 
overlook her camera focus and image blurring made the Swedish version so awesome excluding to a less­
vampyric ten-throughout the film—to both make is amped up and focused in this ver-er extent “Let the 
dencies. The film this movie his own and prove that he sion, allowing the central themes of Right One In,“ of 
climaxes in a is capable of more complex filmmak­the plot to shine through: a juxtaposi-course. 
pivotal scene ing than “Cloverfield”’s handheld cam­tion of violence and love, and the ten-The other major with her begging era gimmick. It is an awesome movie der, innocent relationship of two out-theme ties right in with the first: the Owen to just say, “You can come in.” and definitely worth checking out, siders of society. common kinship of two outsiders. There are definitely times where this regardless of whether you’ve seen the 
One of the most jarring aspects of Owen is a shrimpy, whimpy kid who movie can feel a bit melodramatic, original. the movie is the juxtaposition of vio-gets bullied at school and appears to and it can slip into the absurd in lence and sweet-as-sugar romance. In have no friends or significant relation-places. However, for a movie about Contact Declan Sullivan at one particularly disturbing scene, for ships with anyone except his parents, vampires in love with humans—a plot dsulliv9@nd.edu 
GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, October 5, 2010 page 9 
How has your music matured with your latest 
By MADELINE ROE 

album, “Of the Blue Colour of the Sky?” 

Scene Writer 

OK Go is coming back to campus Oct. 9 at Legends, this time to play for Notre Dame stu­dents after playing with them. In 2004 they played at Legends as an up-and-coming band and in 2007, OK Go headlined “The Show” with Lupe Fiasco. 
Last fall, the band visited campus to film its characteristic one-take video with the Notre Dame Marching Band for the single “This Too Shall Pass.” According to Aaron Perri, manager of Legends Nightclub, OK Go will be playing with the marching band at half time for the Pittsburgh game, too. 
OK Go is anything but your typical pop rock band. While its creative energy takes founda­tion in its music, the forms of artistic expression jettison into unconventional emotional and political spheres. Their projects include collabo­rative albums benefiting the restoration of New Orleans musicians displaced by Hurricane Katrina, as well as music videos involving danc­ing on treadmills, getting blasted with paint in a gigantic Rube Goldberg machine and stop-motion animation. Their latest music video fea­tures trained puppies dancing with the band in a snappy, mesmerizing fashion. 
Bassist and vocalist Tim Nordwind spoke with The Observer about the band’s style of making music and how Ok Go’s work celebrates life. 
How did OK Go get started? 
We met at a summer camp in northern Michigan and really bonded over music. So after college we all decided to meet up in Chicago, where a lot of us were going to school, and we started OK Go. We all have an interest in music videos or art projects in the pursuit of making things to create really cool reactions in the world. That’s what we’ve been doing ever since: touring and making records and videos and a lot of things you wouldn’t expect, one of which would be performing our music video with the Notre Dame Marching Band. That’s what makes getting out of bed in the morning exciting for us, living our wildest and craziest dreams. 
Would you say your artistic inspiration is more musical or visual? 
I would say it’s an emotional one. Our inspira­tion comes from our experiences that make us feel something, and we want to share that feel­ing with people. That being said, a lot of our work is anchored in the records that we make. Our projects wouldn’t exist without the music. We probably wouldn’t be together if we hadn’t formed in the context of a band first. 
But, we really are obsessed with making things in general. We don’t think it’s limited to the music. If we had to just be a band, just recording music and playing shows, I don’t know if it would be enough for us. We’re inter­ested in so many different things in the context of music. 
It’s a lot dancier, a lot groovier and it’s also a bit more introspective and melancholic than our first two records. It celebrates joy and pain all at the same time. It was a very reflective process for us. 
We started with a much more primitive song writing process: making beats, putting sonic information over beats, and if that made us still feel something, we kept going until we had something that felt emotional. And because songs started from a rhythmic foundation, the record sounds much dancier, like Prince, “Purple Rain” or something. It was a much more intense writing process. Dave Fridmann, the producer of the record, brought a three-dimensional sound to the recording process, which resulted in a very different soundtrack. 
You did some benefit tracks for NOLA recov­ery. What is your connection to the city?  
We do a lot of political works with the Future of Music Coalition. They do a lot of work in New Orleans and deal with issues in the music world that intersect with the political world. 
We thought, “Why don’t we help raise money to bring displaced musicians back home so they can play again?” We helped Al Johnson — the Godfather of Soul in New Orleans. We were able to get him a house back in the city. We did a bunch of covers with this amazing brass band Bonerama as well. 
Can you say anything about making your lat­est music video for “White Knuckles”? 
It was a really, really fun experience to spend that much time with that group of dogs and the dog trainers. We made real friends not only with the humans but also with the dogs. 
I’m super proud of that video, and I don’t nor­mally say this, but it might be my favorite of the ones we’ve done so far. Playing with dogs for a few weeks — that’s pretty awesome. It’s getting an amazing response in the last 24 hours, so I’m psyched about it. I think everyone truly had a good time on the set. 
Do you incorporate the theatrical quality of your music videos into your live shows, or are they more spontaneous? 
I think there’s more spontaneity in the live show. The main thing we’re trying to do is con­nect all sorts of different emotional levels. At first, we only wanted live shows to be frenetic and high energy. Playing a show that is multi­dimensional has become important to us. We want to connect with the audience and be on the same wavelength with them. 
If the question is how do our videos inspire the live show, I think everything we do shares the same spirit, but ultimately the live show is a different thing from the video, from the record. I think it generally comes out as a celebration. 
On campus 
The last time you played at Notre Dame you played at the Joyce Center, a much bigger venue than Legends. Which size of venue do you prefer? 
I think somewhere between 1,000 and 5,000 people, but small enough that you can see everyone’s face and have a connection. The smaller, the more intimate feel — I enjoy that. We’ve played bigger shows, and it’s its own kind of fun, but it’s a much different experience than 
when you can see everyone. Contact Madeline Roe at mroe2@nd.edu 

GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 5, 2010 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Turnovers lead Finest to blowout win over Lions 
Tate leads the way again for Phoxes in shutout victory against Pyros; Lewis moves closer to playoffs after defeating Bullfrogs 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS, 
ANDREW GASTELUM, TORI 
ROECK, KRISTEN LASAK and 
KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writers 
Before their team’s critical game against Lyons Sunday, the Farley coaching staff offered players a deal — return an interception for a touchdown, receive a trip to Dairy Queen. Farley’s defense did that and more in a dominating victory over Lyons (1-3) Sunday evening at LaBar Fields. 
Farley junior linebacker Katie Smith intercepted Lyons quarter­back Christina Bramanti just before halftime and ran 25 yards down the sideline untouched to the end zone to put her team up 19-0 
— and earn herself some Dairy Queen. 
Smith’s takeaway was the first of three in a row forced by Farley (3­1). The Finest capitalized on three interceptions, scoring 20 points off turnovers. 
The Farley offense, however, was not overshadowed by its outstand­ing defense. Senior quarterback Emily Murphy threw for three touchdowns and ran for another, helping the Finest to a season-high in points scored. 
“Our offensive line blocked really well and was able to give me time and our receivers were really fast in their routes so they blew past the defense,” Murphy said. 
Senior wide receiver Kelly Weber was Murphy’s favorite target on the day, catching two touchdown pass­es and moving the chains through­out the game. 
Senior captain and wide receiver Molly Casanova caught the other touchdown pass from Murphy, who said her team is in a good frame of mind for a playoff run. 
“I think that we have a lot of momentum now,” Murphy said. “We’ll carry that over to the play­offs and hopefully make it to the Stadium finally.” 
The Lions offense didn’t click until it was too late. Late in the second half, after getting only their third first down of the game, Bramanti threw a 45-yard touch­down, breaking up the shutout. Despite finishing the season 1-3, the Lions will look back at a 2010 season in which they scored 38 more points than 2009 and won their first game in two years. 
While Lyons’ season has ended, Farley will rest up with a bye week before beginning playoff competi­tion. 
Pangborn 19, Pasquerilla East 0 
Pangborn senior quarterback Gabby Tate looked nearly unstop­pable in a win over Pasquerilla East. 

Tate threw for 154 yards and ran for another 87 with two passing touchdowns and one rushing score, leading the Phoxes (2-1) to a shutout victory. 
“We had a really good week in practice this week and we can defi­nitely attribute our performance to the coaches,” Tate said. “It’s good to get our confidence up, especially knowing how important this game is to our season.” 
From the first snap the Phoxes dominated, opening the game with a quick rushing attack that con­cluded with an eight-yard passing touchdown from Tate to sopho­more wideout Kristin Ruekert. After being held on their second drive, the Phoxes rallied behind their quarterback, scoring on a 10­yard rushing touchdown by Tate. 
Meanwhile the Pasquerilla East (1-2) offense, which has no offen­sive points in its last two games, was dormant throughout the game, only accumulating two first downs and 10 total yards. The Pyros punt­ed six times and turned the ball over once, hardly ever venturing into Pangborn territory. 
“Our offensive focus was missing today and it affected us on both sides of the ball,” junior captain Kristin Mannion said. 
The Pyros, who have relied heav­ily on their defense this season, struggled to find a way to stop the relentless Pangborn offense that accumulated 241 yards of total offense. The Phoxes put the game away early in the second half, with Tate connecting with junior receiv­er Liz Pawlak for a 40-yard touch­down. 
The Pyros will look to revive their playoff hopes next week against defending champions Howard while the Phoxes will face Lewis in the final week of the regular sea­son. 
Lewis 25, Badin 6 

Led by its talented offense, Lewis improved its playoff hopes and sealed Badin’s season as winless in a decisive victory. 
The Chicks (2-1) marched down the field on their first drive to score a touchdown on a long pass play to freshman wide receiver Colleen Haller, her first of three touch­downs on the day. Haller scored her second touchdown off a toss from sophomore quarterback Connaught Blood, and her third touchdown came early in the sec­ond half off a long pass from Blood. 
The Bullfrogs (0-4) struggled in the beginning of the game, turning some successful plays into long gains, but failed to convert them into points. However, they came back after halftime more energized and ready to score. 
Freshman wide receiver Katie Martinez scored a touchdown on a controversial play that left the Lewis defense puzzled. Badin’s quarterback threw the initial pass to a different wide receiver, who then tossed the ball to Martinez at the same time a Lewis defender grabbed her flags, so the Chicks thought the play was dead. Nevertheless, Martinez ran in for the touchdown from midfield with­out any defenders pursuing her to give the Bullfrogs their only points of the game. 
Although they ended their season without any victories, the Bullfrogs still enjoyed their last game. 
“We are disappointed in our sea­son, but we had a lot of fun,” Badin junior captain and offensive line­man Melissa Guinan said. “We goofed around in this game. After the score, our offense played defense and our defense played offense.” 
Guinan looks forward to next season and hopes to start early and be consistent in pursuit of playing in the Stadium. 
The Chicks’ hopes for reaching this year’s championship game are still alive because of their triumph over Badin. 
“We put our plays together and used our offensive talents to win,” Haller said. “We have a good shot at getting to the playoffs, and in the next game we can prove that we’re a good team.” 
The Chicks will take on Pangborn next Sunday, while Badin’s season is over. 
Pasquerilla West 32, Ryan 7 

After dominating the competition all season, Pasquerilla West defeat­ed Ryan to successfully complete its bid for a perfect regular season. 
The Purple Weasels (4-0) wasted no time as they opened the game with an interception. Under the leadership of senior quarterback Simone Bigi, Pasquerilla West scored three unanswered touch­downs in the first half. 
“We were missing a few players, but made some last-minute adjust­ments that ended up working out great,” senior linebacker and co-captain Libby Koerbel said. “Our defense started the game with an interception and our offense picked up momentum in regards to both running and passing, so the tone of the game was set from the begin­ning.” 
The Purple Weasel defense refused to give Ryan (1-2), led by sophomore quarterback Maya Pillai, a chance to show its prowess, and held the Wildcats to only a few first downs in the first half. 
The second half began with another interception and Pasquerilla West quickly scored two touchdowns. The Purple Weasels appeared to be on the 

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer A Badin Hall offensive player carries the ball while trying to avoid Pasquerilla East defenders during a loss on Sept. 26. 
verge of a shutout victory in their final game. 
Despite the score, Ryan’s defense and offense came out stronger in the second half. 
With little time left in the game, Pillai connected with junior slot receiver Brianna Curtis for a long touchdown to break the shutout. In the end, Pasquerilla West put the finishing touch on a perfect regular season and Ryan was left to look forward to the next game without being discouraged. 
“It was a tough loss, but we were glad to finish strong,” Pillai said. “We would like to bounce back from this and put up a win against Welsh Family next week.” 
With its regular season complet­ed, Pasquerilla West will prepare to take on new teams in the playoffs and attack each game with the same determination and skill showcased this season. 
“Going into the playoffs undefeat­ed was our first goal,” Koerbel said. “As we prepare for the playoffs, we’ll have our second goal of win­ning the championship in mind. We are pumped for the playoffs. We are confident in our abilities and will play each game with the inten­tion to win.” 
Ryan takes on Welsh Family next week, while Pasquerilla West has a bye before beginning its playoff run. 
Welsh Family 20, Walsh 6 

Fresh off a disappointing and controversial loss due to a forfeit, Welsh Family defeated an equally motivated Walsh team Sunday to put itself back in playoff contention. 
After a tough loss the week before, Walsh (0-3) started off the game with spirits high, yelling enthusiastically while on defense and making every attempt to gain an early lead. But the defense had trouble defending the Whirlwinds (1-2) passing game led by senior quarterback Vicky Moreno. Welsh Family scored two quick touch­downs in the first half, taking an early lead. 
After battling for the rest of the first half, the Wild Women man­aged to score a touchdown just before halftime, but were unable to complete the extra point, bringing the score at the break to 13-6. 
Welsh Family began the second half of the game with the ball and, with the help of three long throws from Moreno, managed to score its third touchdown of the matchup. In the end, the Walsh defense was no match for the prolific passing attack. 
“We’re definitely disappointed,” senior captain Lindsay Schanzer said. “We had a lot of girls missing today, which was hard, but we gave it our all.” 
Whirlwinds senior captain Cari Pick was happy with the obvious improvement in her team this week, especially with Moreno play­ing in her first game since an injury at the beginning of the season. 
“We are honestly really happy with our win,” Pick said. “We really feel like we’re getting back into the swing of things and this is where we should have been at the begin­ning of the season.” 
Walsh will next meet McGlinn while Welsh Family takes on Ryan Sunday. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu, Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu, Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu, Kristen Lasak at klasak@nd.edu and Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574­876-6333 ——————————————— 
NOW RENTING 2011-12 4BD/2BA HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS 574-876-6333 
—————————————— IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR933. 

Fully furnished apts w/granite coun­tertops, GE appliances w/dishwash­er. Each has 2bd/2bath. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. 
No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting. Call JSK Development 574-387-4466. 
——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. 
——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— Jim Halpert: One day Michael came in, complaining about a speed bump, on the highway... I wonder who he ran over then. 
——————————————— 
Jim Halpert: Question. What kind of bear is best? 
Dwight Schrute: That's a ridiculous question. Jim Halpert: False. Black bear. Dwight Schrute: That's debatable. There are basically two schools of thought-­
Jim Halpert: Fact. Bears eat beets. Bears. Beets. Battlestar Galactica. Dwight Schrute: Bears do not... What is going on?! What are you doing?! ——————————————— 
Toby:  Actually, I didn't think it was appropriate to invite children since it's, uh, you know. There's gambling and alcohol... And it's in our danger­ous warehouse. And it's a school night. And, you know, Hooters is catering. You know. Is that- is that enough? Should I keep going? 
Michael Scott: Why are you the way that you are? Honestly, every time I try to do something fun or exciting, you make it not that way. I hate so much about the things that you choose to be. ——————————————— 

Tuesday, October 5, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
Zahm 
continued from page 14 
“We played with heart, and no one has more heart and dedica­tion than our co-captain Collin Casey,” sophomore quarterback Alex Bowman said. “He really helped the team keep our spirits up and lose with class.” 
Zahm continues to search for their first win against Carroll next week while Sorin takes a break with a bye. 
Carroll 10, Fisher 0 
Undefeated Carroll shut out Fisher in a physical win Sunday, using precise offensive execution to get by the Green Wave. 
“We ran what we wanted to run [on offense],” Vermin coach Nick Ruof said. 
Ruof said that Fisher’s defense was tough from the first drive to the last. 
“Their blitz was strong through­out the game,” Ruof said. “But we adjusted — that’s what football is all about.” 
On the other side of the football, Fisher (1-2) was unable to make anything happen on offense, partly due to the absence of head coach Eric Prister. The Green Wave repeatedly went to the ground but struggled to find running lanes. 

“Last week St. Ed’s was pass heavy, this week Fisher was run heavy,” sophomore Vermin cap­tain Keith Marrero said. 
Carroll (2-0) was prepared to defend the run, but Marrero said there is still work to be done defensively to prepare for next week’s game against Zahm. 
“We hit them at the line pretty well,” Marrero said. “But we defi­nitely have to work on stopping them from gaining extra yardage after contact.” 
Vermin freshman quarterback Jack Gardner stood out for the second week in a row, and fresh­man Bobby Dorman had the team’s only touchdown and made several other key plays both on offense and defense. The young guns were just two of the top per­formers from Carroll. 
“Everybody stepped up this week,” Ruof said. 
Next Sunday, the Green Wave will take on St. Ed’s while Carroll looks to keep its perfect record against Zahm. 
Stanford 27, Keough 9 

Stanford rolled to a victory over Keough Sunday behind a three-touchdown effort from junior receiver Griffin Naylor. 
Each team got off to a slow start, but the Griffins (2-0) found their rhythm during the second half and took advantage of the opportunities they got against the Kangaroos (0-3), who are still searching for their first win. 
Keough took a 3-0 lead with a field goal during the second quar­ter. Stanford responded on their very next drive, when senior quar­terback Tony Rizzo drifted to the left of the field and launched a pass to Naylor in the corner of the end zone to give Stanford a 7-3 lead. 
“We got off to a slow start on offense, and we made some mis­takes on defense giving up short routes, which we never do,” Naylor said. “We really stepped up in the second half.” 
Keough regained the lead before halftime, but failed to hold on thanks to an inability to close out drives. 
“Our receivers ran good routes and caught the ball well,” Kangaroos freshman quarterback Aaron Grinsteinner said. “We just need to finish our drives. We didn’t do that today.” 
The Griffins took the lead for good in the third quarter when Naylor ran an end-around to the right side of the field and leaped across the goal line. Though Stanford was happy to earn the win, Naylor said the team must continue to work to realize its potential. 
“Our offensive line was great, we had a lot of big blocks in the second half,” he said. “We need to be more consistent and play all four quarters. When this team is firing on all cylinders, we can beat anyone.” 


Stanford’s final touchdown was the icing on the cake, when junior defenseman Dan Mulligan inter­cepted a Keough pass and began returning it before pitching it to Naylor, who returned the turnover all the way to the end zone. The star of the day credited the Kangaroos with providing a chal­lenge that was not reflected in the final score. 
“Credit to Keough’s defense. They brought it,” Naylor said. “Their quarterback was accurate, and their offense was competing.” 
The undefeated Griffins face Dillon next, while Keough has a bye. 
Dillon 14, Keenan 6 

The sound of helmets hitting helmets echoed from Riehle Fields Sunday afternoon as Dillon defeat­ed Keenan in a matchup of two extremely physical teams. The Big Red (2-0) remain undefeated after a strong second-half effort against the Knights (1-2). 
Keenan started out strong and led 6-0 at halftime after a 20-yard run touchdown run by sophomore quarterback Trevor Yerrick. After Dillon intercepted a Keenan pass in the last moments of the first half, though, the Big Red gained momentum and began to control the pace of the game. 
Sophomore running back Terry Howard ran the ball 15 yards for a touchdown to put Dillon up 7-6 early in the second half, kick-starting a Big Red second-half resurgence. 
“We really stepped it up in the second half,” Howard said. “Our offensive line played leaps and bounds better than it did in our last game.” 
The Big Red continued their solid second-half play, going up 14-6 after freshman quarterback Kevin Fink found sophomore receiver Will Salvi in the end zone. An interception by junior defender Eamon El-Sawaf sealed the victory for Dillon. 
“We’re planning to work hard in practice again this week and hope to get a win against Stanford on Sunday,” Howard said. 
The Knights are also planning a difficult practice after evaluating their weaker points from Sunday’s game. 
“We played a solid first half, but we really struggled in the second half,” senior defensive back Jamie Koepsel said. “Our defense failed to make adjustments to Dillon’s strong running game.” 
Keenan will try to bounce back from the loss in its game against O’Neill Sunday, while Dillon looks to continue its two-game winning streak against Stanford. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu, Victoria Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu, Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu, Lucie Gordon at lgordo01@saintmarys.edu, Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu, and Sarah Crippin at scrippin@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, 2010 
for the closing stretch, Kuschel said. 
Dutch 
continued from page 16 
ball, ” Kuschel said. “We know we have been improv­ing every day in practice. We need to see that improvement during our matches this week.” 
The Belles will face Hope, and each of the other teams in the MIAA, once more in the second half of the sea­son. A win tonight could jumpstart a change in play 

“We need to cut out our unforced errors and be smart with the ball, ” she said. “We have been prepar­ing for this match the way we have for any other: by focusing on what we need to improve on in practice to bring our game to the next level.” 
The Belles will host Hope tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 


Kellner 
continued from page 16 
stuck,” Kellner said. 
Since those first lessons, Kellner has qualified for the high school state tournament in New York multiple years and was named Long Island’s Player of the Year. She joined the Irish from Hauppaige High School in Smithtown, N.Y., where she won the 2008 state championship. 
Throughout high school, Kellner had college tennis on the agenda, but the location was always an unknown. That changed when she visited Notre Dame, and as so many before her, knew she had found her school. 
“After visiting Notre Dame I knew it was where I wanted to be for the next four years. I loved the campus spirit, the school, the religious environ­ment and the girls on the team,” Kellner said. “I could really see myself being there.” 

As a freshman, she is just starting to get in the swing of college tennis and college itself — the balance of work and play. 
“The most difficult part about adjusting has been bal­ancing my schoolwork with tennis by basically using every minute that I have,” Kellner said. 
Despite the workload, Kellner knows she is in a good place, surrounded by teammates and coaches who can always help. 
“I like how we are such a small team and give each other motivation during both practice and competition. I like how the coaches can talk, help and motivate us during the matches,” she said. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Cavanaugh drops Babes with big win 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Cavanaugh displayed its pro­ficiency on both sides of the ball as the Chaos completed their perfect season with a 14­0 win against Breen-Phillips. 
Having shut out Breen-Phillips (0-4) en route to a win in the first week variety of play types to give Breen-Phillips a lot of different looks. 

“We just have a lot of plays in our book,” Hinz said. “We just try to use the ones that we think are going to work on a given day.” 
After wrapping up their per­
fect season, the Chaos wait for the playoffs. Hinz knows that if her team con-
of the season, “We are just ready to tinues to exe-Cavanaugh (4-0) cute, they could 
get going with the
did so once very well wind 
playoffs.” 
again in the up playing for a season’s final championship. week to secure Holly Hinz “We had a a playoff bid. great season, 4­
Cavanugh wide receiver 
Both teams relied heavily on their defens­es, as both offenses were unable to consistently move the ball in the first half. Fittingly, the first big play was a defensive one, as Cavanaugh senior linebacker Mo Mathias intercepted a pass from Breen-Phillips senior quarterback Gabriela Moriel. Following the interception, junior running back Brittni Alexander took a direct snap and broke multiple tackles on a long touchdown run for the first score of the game. 
The Chaos added their final score of the game later in the second half on a touchdown pass from junior quarterback Megan Robertson to senior wide receiver and captain Holly Hinz. Cavanaugh used a 0, so we are 

super excited 
about that,” Hinz said. “We are just ready to get going with the playoffs.” 
On the opposite end of the winning spectrum sits Breen-Phillips, who closed out a win­less season. Despite their inability to win games this year, the Babes appreciate the season they had. 
“It was definitely a lot of bonding, a lot of fun,” senior defensive lineman Megan Skinner said. “But we also played really hard and played really strong the whole time.” 
Breen-Phillips will look to come back stronger next year, while Cavanaugh awaits their first playoff game. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 5, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Freshman Zhang makes early mark 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

Freshman Nicole Zhang made Irish history when she competed in the 2010 U.S. Women’s Golf Open at the nationally acclaimed Oakmont Country Club in Pittsburgh, Pa., during the summer, becoming the first member of the Irish program to do so. And she did so before ever stepping onto campus as a student or com­peting at the collegiate level. 
Ranked the No. 10 national recruit by Golfweek, Zhang, a Calgary, Alberta native, was one of four Canadians com­peting in the U.S. Open. She shot two rounds of 78 for a 14-over total of 156, which missed the cut by a mere four strokes. 
Zhang brings much more experience to the team than just the U.S. Open, although it was probably one of her toughest competitions yet. Irish coach Susan Holt referred to Zhang as “not your typical freshman ” because of her extensive experience in playing at an elevated level. She has played in numerous major USGA Amatuer Golf Championships as well as in multiple other events as an amateur, while also having the opportunity to beat professional golfers on more than one occasion. Zhang’s experiences have helped mold her into the strong player she is today, making her a valuable weapon the Irish team has already benefitted from in winning their first two tour­naments. 
“On the course she is very focused and has an aggres­sive style of play which allows her to have many birdie chances during each round,” Holt said. “When she is on she is tough to beat. Her teammates have a great deal 
of respect for her and he game. I have players that have asked to play with Nicole during practice so they can watch her and learn from her. I think that is the ulti­mate compliment one team­mate can give to another.” 
Holt also has been impressed with how Zhang continuously handles the pressure of a large tourna­ment. 
“I don 't think she feels pressure. She just plays the game the way she knows how,” Holt said. “She is very even-tempered on the course which is a great attribute to have to play good golf. never know how she is play­ing because she carries her­self the same all the time. She is very confident in her ability and I don't think she ever doubts her ability. For this I am glad she is on our team because as an opponent she is tough to beat.” 
Golf has had a larger role in Zhang’s life than what is reflected in her achievements and the effect she has already had on her teammates. 
Zhang and her older broth­er Dustin, a senior on the Irish men’s golf team, grew up on a golf course in Calgary. Once Dustin started playing, Nicole simply fol­lowed, beginning to play at age six. Dustin’s role on the men’s team also influenced Nicole’s decision to attend Notre Dame. Multiple visits over the past few years and an introduction to the Irish coaches drew Nicole in and helped her make her deci­sion. 
“We got lucky to have her really want to come here,” Holt said. “Obviously we hoped that she would as she is a wonderful young lady and a great golf talent.” 
Although a successful ath­lete in her own right, Zhang never stops caring about her teammates during a match, often asking her coaches how everyone else is playing. 
“She cares about the team aspect and wants her team­mates to play well,” Holt said. 
Zhang and the Irish have taken first in both of their tournaments this fall, most recently winning the title at their own William K. Warren Invitational, where Zhang took second overall. Notre Dame will return to the golf course this weekend at the Mercedes -Benz Collegiate Championship on Oct. 8-9 in Knoxville, Tenn., where the Irish will look to secure their third straight win. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
Bayliss 
continued from page 16 

the first time that he has shown the ability to handle the pressure and scrutiny needed to win consistently at the top of the lineup.” 
After their strong showing in Massachusetts, the Irish sent senior Dan Stahl, junior Casey Watt and sophomore Blas Moros to the ITA All-American tournament that began Sunday. 
“Dan Stahl and Blas Moros are playing today [Monday] in Tulsa,” Bayliss said. “Each has a very tough first round match, as Blas plays a returning starter from Virginia, probably the country’s best team this year, and Dan plays one of Florida’s better players. The idea in sending them to the qualifying rounds was to expose them to high national level competition and give them the opportunity to see where they are … Obviously in an event like the All-American any win is a good one and that is what our guys are seeking. All of the best players in the country will be there.” 
As a team, the Irish will take some time off before compet­ing in the Midwest Regional Championships on Oct. 21. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, 2010 
Shaffer 
continued from page 16 
while Knott has a bye next week. 
Alumni 14, Duncan 6 
Alumni got the better of the vaunted Duncan defense, scoring two touchdowns in a victory. 
The Highlanders (1-2) took an early lead with a running touch­down from freshman quarterback Josh Whelan, though the extra point attempt was blocked. The Dawgs (2-0) rallied in the second half, scoring in the third quarter on a run from freshman quarter­back Will Cronin and in the fourth quarter courtesy of junior running back Barrick Bollman. 
“I thought the team showed a lot of heart,” senior Alumni line­backer Sean O’Brien said. “We were down early but kept fighting and made some changes on defense. Our offensive line really won the game for us.” 
The time of possession greatly favored the Dawgs, who ate up the clock with two long, methodi­cal drives and a strong running attack. The Highlanders sealed their fate with sloppy play late in the game, committing several costly penalties and losing two offensive possessions to intercep­tions. 
Although disappointed by the final result, Duncan still had some reason for optimism. The early touchdown was the first offensive touchdown in Highlander history, and the offense showed much 
Streak 
continued from page 18 
juniors in high school and beginning the process of choosing a school. In addition, that 2005 squad was the last to not advance to the College Cup, falling a game short in a NCAA quarterfinal loss at then-No. 1 Portland. In the last five years, the Irish have won 68 times and tied with their opponent three times, with the most recent coming at Pittsburgh on Oct. 4, 2009. The average margin of victory during the streak has been 
2.92 goals per match, indicat­ing that the Irish have not just won games, but have often dominated them. 
Though the Irish are looking to continue the streak over the six remaining regular-sea­son conference games and four conference tournament games, the team is not using the record as a motivational factor. 
“To be totally honest, I did-n’t know we were at 71,” jun­ior forward Melissa Henderson said. “I don’t real­ly think we’re thinking about that right now. We’re really just trying to focus on game after game, and our ultimate goal, a national champi­onship.” 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum has used the streak to contin­ue to lure recruits to South Bend, but once he brings players here, he tries not to mention it ever again. 
“Those kind of things are things that you sell. Those conference wins are all things that you want the outside players that you want to bring in, that you want to talk about it,” he said. “Within the team, we really don’t use that as our focus, we just try to use that next game, and so far so good. We have not once ever talked about it.” 

more movement than in their first two games. 
“I think our running game was there,” Whelan said. “We played much better as a team.” 
The Highlanders will be looking to increase intensity and consis­tency in coming weeks. 
“We broke down in the second half,” Whelan said. “They wanted it more. We need to work on pass­ing game synchronization, and fighting for all four quarters.” 
Alumni will next face Siegfried, while Duncan’s next challenge will come against Morrissey. 
Sorin 26, Zahm 0 

A tough, spirited Zahm defense wasn’t enough to contain Sorin’s prolific offense in Sunday’s game. With a mix of long throws and wildcat running, Sorin (2-1) man­aged to score three passing touch­downs and one rushing touch­down while holding Zahm (0-3) scoreless in the victory. 
Zahm’s defense started out strong with sacks coming from junior lineman Luke Lennon, a drum major in high school turned into one of Zahm’s most danger­ous defensive weapons. 
“He’s like a character in a Disney channel movie, going from playing trombone to being one of the best athletes out here,” Lennon’s junior roommate Jordan Rincon said. 
Sorin’s offense quickly fell into a rhythm, spreading out the Zahm secondary with long receptions; quarterback Ted Spinelli connect­ed with sophomore receiver Ryan Robinson for massive gains and two touchdowns. 
The Irish acknowledge that the streak will not last forever but are only concerned over its ending insofar as it involves their quest for yet another Big East champi ­onship. 
“The record’s going to be broken at some point in time,” Waldrum said. “I think it’s more important that they just realize that we just need to keep getting wins to win the conference champi ­onship.” 
Notre Dame will look to extend its streak this week­end with a pair of home dates against Seton Hall and Rutgers. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Spinelli connected for a third touchdown with senior receiver Jon Beckerle before the Otters switched offensive styles and began to run the wildcat with sen­ior captain Michael Browder tak­ing snaps. 
“Sorin rides Browder to victory is the best way to describe how essential he is to our team,” fresh­man Kevin Timperman said. 
Browder chipped in another touchdown after a long running drive behind the blocking of a strong offensive line led by senior Matt Gamber. 
Though short on subs and plagued by injuries, Zahm fought to the very end of the game. 
see ZAHM/page 11 



Tuesday, October 5, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, October 5, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Irish look to continue conference win streak 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Record-setting streaks are part of the sports landscape. For the last five years, the Irish have been compiling one 
of the most impressive streaks in college sports, and each time they add to it, they quietly extend an NCAA Division I record. 
After two dominating wins this past weekend, the Irish have now played in 71 con­ference games without losing, with only three ties in that span. 
The streak dates back to Oct. 2, 2005, when the Irish rebounded from a loss at Marquette with a 4-0 win at South Florida in what was Notre Dame’s 100th Big East game. At the time, Notre Dame’s current seniors were 
see STREAK/page 14 

Mean streak 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Freshman forward Adriana Leon chases after a loose ball Oct. 1 against Syracuse. Leon and the Irish have won 71 straight conference games in the Big East dating back to 2005. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles face ranked foe at home 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 

A win over a top-20 oppo­nent is one way to end a six -match losing streak. Tonight Saint Mary’s (3-13, 1-6 MIAA) hopes to do just that against No. 14 Hope (10-4, 6-1). 
“We have played a lot of tough nationally ranked competition this sesason, and we have been success­ful, ” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “Hope is another great team and we will need to bring our best effort to beat them.” 
The Flying Dutch enter the matchup on a three-match winning streak, all by a margin of 3-0, compared to the Belles who have lost eight of their last nine. 
“[We need] to play aggres­sive and consistent volley-
see DUTCH/page 14 

MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Siegfried bests Knott in battle of rivals to retain ‘Cup’ 
By SAM GANS, VICTORIA 
JACOBSEN, JACK YUSKO, 
LUCIE GORDON, LAURA 
COLETTI and SARAH 
CRIPPIN 
Sports Writers 
The Flanner Cup initially seemed it would come down to the wire but ended up a rout, as Siegfried dominated rival Knott 17-0. 
After a field goal gave Siegfried (2-0) a 3-0 lead, sophomore half­back David Whitmore put a dag­ger in the hearts of the Juggerknotts (0-3) with a two-yard touchdown run on the final play of the first half to put the Ramblers up 10-0. That capped a 12-play, 52-yard drive in which Siegfried only ran the ball, taking advan­tage of its physicality. 

“We started pounding the ball more and more,” Whitmore said. “By the end of the half, they just couldn’t tackle us anymore. We were hitting them too hard.” 
Siegfried added to the final score in the third quarter when senior quarterback Matt Meinert found the end zone from two yards out. 
Whitmore, who ran for 80 yards on 16 carries, was pleased with the improvement from his team’s opening 3-0 win, but knows that the team must keep getting better. 
“Our line has been playing a lot better and we’re very happy about that,” Whitmore said. “[But] we realize Knott’s 0-3.” 
Knott had a new starting quar­terback against Siegfried in sopho-
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Freshman Kellner debuts 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
At the age of six, Jennifer Kellner took a lesson that led her down a path that eventu­ally landed her on the Irish tennis team. 
Twelve years later, the freshman began her college career this past weekend at the Eck Classic. 
Kellner’s mother, who played tennis for Fordham University during her college days, saw an ad in the news­paper for a free tennis lesson years ago, which she decided might be a good fit for her daughters. 
“After that we began to play more and more and ever since then tennis has just 
see KELLNER/page 13 


more Jake Coleman. Coleman had initial success, leading the Juggerknotts deep into Rambler territory on the opening drive. The drive stalled, though, leaving Knott with no points. 
After Coleman struggled in the next two quarters, former starter sophomore Dylan Walter was put back in the game, and found Coleman, now at receiver, on a 41­yard pass to the 20-yard line. Yet again the Juggerknotts were stymied when threatening to score. 
“We couldn’t score … again,” Knott captain Dan Shaffer said. “Offensively we drove to the red-zone and just died there.” 
Knott, which has no touchdowns this season, will try to figure out how to punch the ball into the endzone. 
“This offense works until the redzone,” Shaffer said. “I don’t know if there’s some magic we can do once we’re down there.” 
Next up for Siegfried is Alumni, 
see SHAFFER/page 14 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish send three to All-American event 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

The Irish finished this past weekend with an impressive 32-7 record at the Chowder Invitational and will now look to three of their top players to perform well at the ITA All-American Tournament in Tulsa, Okla. 
“I felt that this was the best weekend we have had in a fall event in some time,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “From top to bottom we played with intensity and poise. [Senior] Stephen Havens was named the tour­nament’s outstanding player, but he had a lot of our guys nipping at his heels.” 
Havens finished with an undefeated record in both singles and doubles. Bayliss said Havens proved strong throughout the tournament this weekend instead of hav­ing a letdown after some major wins, as he had done in the past. 
“He had good wins and then backed them up with solid performances, some­thing that he had previously been unable to do. We have always known that he had great potential because of a number of spectacular, but sporadic and limited, good wins,” Bayliss said. “This is 
see BAYLISS/page 12 






