the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Almost 400 students will participate in this year’s national March for Life Friday in Washington, D.C. — doubling last year’s participa­tion. 
The Notre Dame Right to Life Club sends students to the nation’s capital every year to march in the annual pro-life rally, the group’s co-vice president Mary Daly, a senior, said. But this year, for the first time, University President Fr. John Jenkins will join the marchers. 
Jenkins created a pro-life task force in September to “broaden and deepen the 


Jenkins,studentsheadtoD.C.formarch 
Notre Dame Right to Life Club sends students to capital to support pro-life cause 
pro-life culture” at Notre Dame to help “strengthen the Notre Dame community’s wit­ness to Catholic teaching on life.” One of the task force’s first recommendations was to suggest the University presi­dent join Notre Dame stu­dents in Friday’s March for Life. 
The task force’s creation was in part in response to the work of a group of students who condemned Jenkins’ decision to invite President Barack Obama to deliver the 2009 Commencement address and award him an honorary degree. 
Daly, a leader within the student group that protested 
see MARCH/page 4 


Petition starts in response to comic 
Students call for ‘sexual orientation’ to be added to the University’s non-discrimination clause 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame seniors Patrick Bears and Meaghan Jennings knew they had to do something to try to get the University to act after the Jan. 13 publication of an offensive comic about violence towards the gay community in The Observer. 
The two, both involved in the Gender Relations Center and the Core Council — a University group that works to support the GLBTQ community at Notre Dame — said there was “shock and outrage” after the offensive comic was printed last week. 
“By no means [do I] think that anyone saw it and thought, ‘Oh, but Notre Dame is so accepting of homosexuals,’” Jennings said. 
On the contrary, the comic and the national response it generated contributed to a perception of the University as not being accepting of the GLBTQ community, she said. 
“I feel like our image has very much been tarnished by this,” she said. 
So the pair decided to start a petition to have “sexual orienta­tion” added to the University’s non-discrimination clause — it’s currently not listed alongside 
see PETITION/page 4 

Festival showcases studentfilm productions 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s film produc­tion program is often described as one of the top “hidden gems,” around the country, said Ted Mandell, film and television faculty member and organizer of See Also the Film and 
“21st annual
Te levision Department’s Notre Dame annual 
Film Festival 
Student Film 
preview”
Festival. 
Now in its page 1221st year, the festival began Thursday night at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The festival continues Friday and Saturday night, with screenings at 6:30 and 
9:30 p.m. 
The first film festival was held in 1990 in a variety of venues, until 2004 when the DPAC was built and it has been held there ever since. 
All films are between three and fifteen minutes in length, from a variety of genres, but all made by students during introductory, intermediate or advanced film production classes. 
Mandell said there are sev­eral factors the movies are judged on. 
“There are a lot of elements, 
see FILM/page 4 


Police ask for more information on assault 
Observer Staff Report 
Investigations are underway regarding the three students who were assaulted while attempting to board the Transpo bus route 7A during the early morning hours of Jan. 17, police said earli­er this week. 
Police asked witnesses to share any type of information they have. 
“Even if people think it might not be significant, it may be the break that we need,” Assistant Director for Notre Dame Security Police Dave Chapman said. 
Chapman said any information about the attackers and their car or license plate number could be helpful in identifying the person responsible for the assault. 

“Anything they saw, anything they heard, anything at all,” he said. “If we get two or three peo­ple, we can put their stories together.” 
The assault occurred at around 2 a.m. Sunday on the corner of Notre Dame Ave. and Miner St., Chapman said. 
Witnesses should call Sergeant Al Deroo at 574-235-9263 or South Bend Crime Stoppers at 574-288-STOP with information. 


KeenanRevuepushesenvelope 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Between Notre Dame “bros,” Facebook creepers, Twilight and Tiger Woods, few Notre Dame or pop culture topics escaped the spotlight at the 2010 Keenan Revue, presented Thursday night in O’Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College. Traditionally, the men of Keenan Hall have been known to push the envelope, and this year is no exception. 
Judging from some of the skit titles, like “Flip and Tuck,” and 
see KEENAN/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Beauty conference being held page 3  Women’s basketball preview page 24  Top ten films of the decade page 12  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, January 22, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Stadium efficiency 
Earlier this month, the Stinson-Remick Hall of Engineering opened its doors for the first time to Notre Dame students. Suffice to say, Notre Dame is not exactly hurting for new buildings. Earlier this academic year Geddes Hall and Ryan Hall opened to stu­dents. Apparently at 
Sam Stryker 
Notre Dame con­struction is second 

News Wire 
only to finding a 

Editor
football coach who will take us back to our glory days. 

What is interesting about all these new buildings is that we are not even maxi­mizing the infrastructure that is already in place on campus. Think about it—one of the most important buildings on cam­pus, second in notoriety to the Main Building and its Golden Dome, is open for use by students maybe 10, 15 times a year. Yes, you know exactly what I am talking about — the football stadium. Before the University breaks ground on any new buildings, I think we need to consider putting the stadium to good use. 
Now, certain obvious ideas come to mind. How awesome would it be for the stadium to host the NHL’s hallmark event, The Winter Classic. An outdoor hockey game on New Year’s Day would be pretty cool. 
And why not start hosting a concert or three at the house that Rockne built? As acoustically prestigious as Legends or the B Parking Lot may be, they could not shake a mic at the musical experience a live performance at the Stadium would provide. Imagine Taylor Swift rocking out at the 50 yard line or ‘Bad Romance’ blaring through the same loudspeakers that normally host the voice of Officer Tim McCarthy. 
But those are just the obvious ideas. The real fun begins when one starts thinking outside of the box. 
Every now and then I hear a rumor from a friend that the administration is considering building a new dining hall. What a ridiculous idea. Why not build an al fresco dining establishment right on the field right after football season? Heck, seating wouldn’t be an issue— you’d have 80,000 to choose from. The best part is the University could save on refrigeration and just store all the cold food in a snow bank. 
Another idea that comes to mind is turning the stadium into a lecture hall for some of the larger intro level classes. I guess you’d have to give the teacher a microphone or something, but it would be nice to cut down on all the foot traffic that goes through DeBartolo in between classes. 
Notre Dame students LOVE Christmas. Why not turn the field inside the stadium into a Christmas tree farm during the cold winter months? As much as I love my 3-foot tall plastic imitation Christmas tree, nothing can quite beat a good ol’ Douglas fir tree strewn with lights and ornaments. While we’re at it, we might as well make it a watermelon farm in the summer. 
Clearly, Notre Dame Stadium has the potential to be the definition of a multi­purpose stadium. Before we fire up the bulldozers and phone up the Bob the Builder yet again, let’s put our good sta­dium to some real use. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE PART OF  EENAN REVUE? 







Kerry Quinn  Timmy Martin  Stephan Kahn  Patrick Mines  Andy Zetter  
sophomore Holy Cross  sophomore Keenan  sophomore Keenan  sophomore Keenan  freshman Stanford  
“Seeing Timmy dressed up as Miley Cyrus.”  “Wearing my ex-girlfriend’s bra.”  “Displaying my canary like voice.”  “Being stationed in Poland but carrying on.”  “The Jackson 4.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Zach DuBois sings a twist of Wicked’s “Defying Gravity,” acting as Jimmy Clausen leaving for the draft, during Thursday’s Keenan Revue. 
OFFBEAT 

Senior photo prank spells trouble; students penalized 
HOUSTON — A spelling prank in a class photo for more than 600 seniors in the Houston area led to suspension of three stu­dents. Some students wore T-shirts spelling out “CLASS” as part of “Class of 2010” in a formal shot. But KHOU-TV reported in a later informal shot, stu­dents representing “C” and “L” moved from the front row, leaving behind an offensive three-letter word. 
Administrators at Cypress Ridge High School cited the school’s code of conduct and suspended the three students for three days. The penalty began Tuesday. 
Senior Austin Knight says “C and L ran off” and it’s not the fault of the three students, wearing A, S and S, who also were fined $135. The money will help pay the cost of retouching the photo. 
Man gets day in jail after throwing taco at manager 
FAIRBANKS, Alaska — An Alaska man who hit a Taco Bell manager in the face with a double-decker taco has been sentenced to one day in jail and one year probation. Warren Strickland of Fairbanks must also pay a $100 fine after pleading guilty Tuesday to disorderly con­duct. 
The 31-year-old says he threw the taco because it contained spit after he went through the drive­thru twice because the restaurant messed up his order. He claims the man­ager accused him of lying to get free food. 
Strickland is barred from Taco Bell during his year of probation. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Saturday Sunday 

IN BRIEF 
“RFK Project” continues tonight and tomorrow at the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 p.m. Purchase tickets online at performin­garts.nd.edu or at the box office. 
The University of Notre Dame will donate the full gate receipts, as well as the net concession revenue, from both the men’s and women’s basketball games this weekend to benefit relief and rebuilding efforts in Haiti. The men play DePaul tomorrow at 2 p.m. and the women play West Virginia Sunday at 1 p.m. in the Purcell Pavillion of the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame’s Institute for Advanced Study’s Conference on Beauty continues today and tomorrow at McKenna Hall. The conference is free and open to all to attend sessions, but reg­istration is required to attend meals. 
The Notre Dame Post Office will hold a Passport Fair tomor­row from 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. at the post office in Hammes Mowbray Hall. No appointment is necessary. 
Men’s and women’s track is holding the Notre Dame Invitational tomorrow in the Loftus Sports Center, starting at 10 a.m. The event is open to the public. 
The Mr. and Miss Diverse ND Pageant will take place tomor­row at Washington Hall from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. Tickets are $5 at the door. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Monday Tuesday 

Atlanta 51 / 38 Boston 37 / 18 Chicago 35 / 33 Denver 45 / 32 Houston 74 / 61 Los Angeles 53 / 44 Minneapolis 32 / 28 New York 44 / 28 Philadelphia 45 / 28 Phoenix 59 / 45 Seattle 53 / 43 St. Louis 44 / 34 Tampa 70 / 54 Washington 36 / 30 
Friday, January 22, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


ND institute to host conference on beauty 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Institute for Advanced Study will host its first of annual conference starting today through Jan. 23, director Vittorio Hösle said. 
The conference, held in McKenna Hall, will focus on beauty emphasized in lectures by international speakers from many diverse fields, Hösle said. 
“Beauty is neglected in modern discussion,” Hösle said. “The question is how we will be able to reflect on beauty.” 
Figures like internationally known Russian artist Maxim Kantor and mathematician Robert P. Langlands will lecture on beauty in visual arts and mathematics, respectively, according to the program. Kantor will also speak Jan. 26, 27 and 29 on printmaking and Russia. 
The topic of the conference is derived from the Institute’s seal 
— “Verum, Bonum, Pulchrum,” meaning truth, goodness and beauty, Hösle said. 
The next two conferences will focus on goodness and truth, and a fourth conference will focus on religion. 
The conference, as well as the Institute itself, is increasing the interdisciplinary and internation­al nature of Notre Dame’s cam­pus, Hösle said. 
“The Institute [for Advanced Study] has an aim to foster research with two points; that it’s interdisciplinary and that is should look at the normative and descriptive,” Hösle said. “That is, we should learn how the world is and how it ought to be.” 
The Institute is a recent instal­lation on campus, with original planning starting in the fall of 2008 and the formation of the actual offices in July of 2009, Hösle said. The Institute will begin selecting fellows and grad­uate students after the confer­ence. 
“This year we will bring in eight fellows and two graduate students,” Hösle said. “Next year we will increase, adding 14 fel­lows and four graduate students. We will select those whose proj­ects are in line with the Institute.” 
Hösle said undergraduates would eventually be hired. 
“We will possibly hire some undergraduates to work for the fellows and experience scholar­ship,” Hösle said. “We want to attract undergrads so they can be exposed early on to discussions.” 
He said an increase in interna­tional knowledge would be neces­sary as time goes on. 
“The 21st century will be a global one. We have to increase international knowledge. We need students to speak different languages,” Hösle said. 
To find more about the Institute for Advanced Study and the Annual Conference, including a schedule of events, visit sri.nd.edu/institute-for-advanced­study or call 574-631-1305. Registration is required for meals, but the sessions are open to anyone who would like to attend. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Art exhibitions open in SMC Moreau Galleries 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Three new exhibitions in the Moreau Art Gallery in Moreau Center for the Arts on Saint Mary’s campus will be opening tonight. The installations will feature work from three con­temporary artists. 
Katrine Hildebrandt’s drawing installation titled “Above, Below and Within” is premiering in the Sister Rosaire Gallery. Hildebrandt uses mixed medi­ums along with drawing and installation to create her art­work. 
“As an artist I investigate the world through a philosophical and scientific lens, using data or specimens as models or metaphors in order to examine a philosophical concept,” Hildebrandt says on her Web site. 
Painter Cara Erskine’s show “Waldo,” which is full of bright and colorful pieces, is being fea­tured in the Little Theater Gallery. She is influenced by “light, storms and the expansive landscape” in her paintings, College art professor and gallery curator Krista Hoefle said. 
Erskine’s exhibition features two 24-foot paintings of Waldo Tunnel from the exit off the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, which lean against the wall, Erskine wrote on her blog. 
Both Erskine and Hildebrandt installed their own exhibits, as they are installation based, Hoefle said. 
“The goal is to transfer how you do artwork,” Hoefle said. “[Erskine] experimented with leaning paintings up on casts of paint cans to add to the effect. The leaning gives the paintings a physicality making it more imposing.” 
The Hammes Gallery features an exhibition of video and pho­tography by Robert Ladislas Derr entitled “The World Isn’t Always Round.” 
The exhibition follows the high quality contemporary art­work the gallery usually dis­plays. 
“The goal of the space is to bring contemporary artwork to campus and give a wide range of styles. It also serves the class­es of the art department,” Hoefle said. 
Hoefle enjoys contemporary art and enjoys the gallery shows for what they invoke in others. 
“People are always question­ing why. Art attempts to shake things up,” she said. 
The exhibition officially opens tonight with a reception from 5 to 7 p.m. in the gallery. Hors d’oeuvres and beverages will be served and all of the exhibiting artists will be in attendance. The show runs until Feb. 19. 
This is the first major show of the semester and will be fol­lowed by the senior art major comprehensive projects. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@saintmarys@nd.edu 

Moreseniorsdothesisprojects 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The senior thesis has in the past been associated with math and the sciences at the University but the College of Arts and Letter is making strides to create what they call a “thesis culture” within the college. 
The College of Arts and Letters has made changes to the thesis program and process in order to attract more stu­dents to complete a thesis. The efforts appear to have been successful because the number of students completing a thesis has risen. 
“Last year we had 10 percent of our undergraduates in the college completing theses,” Arts and Letters Associate Dean Stuart Greene said. “This year that number has risen to around 15 to 18 percent.” 
Greene said the new focus will allow students to explore an area of interest they nor­mally wouldn’t get to study in-depth in their given major. 
“An Arts and Letters thesis is something that develops out of the student’s interests,” he said. “Not only is it a part of the overall effort to enhance undergraduate education, it allows them to develop life­long skills.” 
Cara Nazareth, a senior Anthropology major who is in the process of completing her thesis project, said she decided to do a thesis because it enabled her to delve in-depth into a topic she was passionate about. 
“Completing this thesis is a way for me to study issues that are not really touched on in our classes,” she said. “I would have never have had the opportunity to do this project if it hadn’t been in the form of a thesis.” 

Nazareth is working on a thesis that examines how bicultural students in the United States compare to their bicultural peers in other coun­tries. The project requires Nazareth to interview students and gather a significant amount of information. 
“I’m writing every week and that keeps you self-motivated, which is something that the thesis definitely pushes you to do,” she said. “But I feel like it’s a capstone for my educa­tion.” 
Senior Renee Rinehart, a Sociology major and a Education and Schooling in Society minor, is working on a thesis examining the politics of local education policy and com­munity engagement in educa­tion and seeing if those factors can minimize negative political influences in the school system. Rinehart said the inspiration for her thesis came from her two summers of internships. 
“One summer I worked at the Indiana Chamber of Commerce as an educational policy intern and then last summer I worked at the National Education Association in Washington D.C.,” she said. “Seeing the two sides of this issue made me want to see how both sides could come together to support public schools.” 
Like Nazareth, Rinehart said she wanted to do a thesis because she was able to explore an issue that she was passionate about. 
“I felt that if I didn’t do a the­sis, I would be missing out on part of my education,” she said. 
Greene said the “thesis cul­ture” the deans of Arts and Letters are hoping to facilitate will be one where students begin to see themselves as more than observers of other people’s work. 
“We want this ‘culture’ to be one in which students see the intrinsic value of engaging in this type of work,” Greene said. “We want it to be an experi­ence where student and faculty come together to talk about the significance of the student’s experience.” 
One of the major attributes of the Arts and Letters thesis is the role of a faculty “mentor” to guide the student in their research and motivate them in their work. 
“We are trying to be better mentors so that students can see the real value in doing this kind of work regardless of ambitions,” Greene, who is a mentor to several students, said. 
Greene said he hopes more Arts and Letters students see the value in completing a sen­ior thesis project. 
“Human problems relate to beliefs and values that we haven’t come to agreement on in the Arts and we are con­stantly revisiting meaning,” he said. “The way we deal with human problems in Arts and Letters can be interpretative, which leaves more room to be original.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

Grant funds student-faculty research 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s Center for Academic Innovation (CFAI) has been working to fund fac­ulty and student research grants since 1993. One of these is the Student Independent Study and Research grant (SISTAR), which provides a student-fac­ulty member team with money for research projects during the summer months. 
The grant allows a student to work closely alongside a faculty member from an area 
of  their  choice.  Laura  
Haigwood,  Interim  Co- 
Director  for  Faculty  

Development for CFAI, said students find the program helps them discover the kind of work they might want to do after graduation. 
“Students can write about [SISTAR] in their statement of purpose and set themselves apart from other students as they move to graduate work,” Haigwood said. 
The program gives students a taxable stipend of $3,500 plus lodgings for an eight-week research project on campus. In addition, the facul­ty member they are collabo­rating with will receive $3,500 in support of their research, Haigwood said. Once the research is complete, CFAI will also provide funding for the pair to travel to a profes­sional conference during the next academic year if they so choose. could not pass up trying to 

“Students have said that receive the grant,” Joseph SISTAR helped them clarify said. “We talked about the goals for after graduation,” topic, each designed our own Haigwood said. project and came together to 
Past collaborations have write a joint proposal.” come from a wide variety of Students interested in apply-majors, with topics ranging ing for the grant but aren’t 
from  Latin  sure what they  
music to drug intermediates.  “It was an opprotunity  will s h  research o u l d  
One 2009 SIS- like nothing else and I  approach one of  
TAR team, including Kara Joseph, a jun­ior chemistry  defnitely could not pass up trying to receive the grant.”  their profes-sors, Haigwood said. “If you found  
major  and  a  topic  in  a  
Isabel Larraza, a chemistry and physics  Kara Joseph junior  course that touched on what you most  

professor, will be presenting their findings during the month of February. 
Joseph and Larraza spent the summer researching, resulting in a paper titled “Hexabromoacetone and Ethyl Tribromoacetate: A Novel 
Green  Path  to  Drug  
Intermediates.”  
Joseph  said  the project  

works on “making drug inter­mediates in more environmen­tally conscious conditions.” 
“If this method works under more environmentally con­scious conditions, making drugs can then be made in better conditions that are less harmful to the chemist and environment,” Joseph said. 
Joseph said the inspiration and applying for the grant were a combined effort with her and Larraza. 
“It was an opportunity like nothing else and I definitely 
are about and whatever deeper values you may have then go back to your professor and ask if they are interested in doing SISTAR,” she said. 
Haigwood also said there is even value in the application process if you are not chosen for the grant. 
“No step of the process is a waste of time. It can be enor­mously helpful in developing a sense of who you are and what you want to understand through research,” Haigwood said. 
Students interested in apply­ing for a SISTAR grant or who would like more information can contact CFAI located in Room 115, Spes Unica Hall, or visit their Web site at www3.saintmarys.edu/sistar 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 22, 2010 
for the March,” Gerardi, a sen-witness to the sanctity of ior, said. human life,” he said. “I also 
March 

Gerardi is participating in think it is nice to see that it’s continued from page 1 the March for the first time, sort of the entire Notre Dame 
but Daly has gone each year community, not just a rabble-Jenkins’ invitation to Obama, she has been at Notre Dame. rousing group of rambunctious said she is pleased with the “What is cool is when you go 20-year-olds.” progress of the task force so to the March, you get this Although Daly said Jenkins’ far. sense that these 3,000 people appearance makes this year’s 
“We’re very glad to have Fr. think this is important just like March significant for the Notre Jenkins and faculty coming,” I do,” Daly said. “It’s incredibly Dame community, she said she said. “This is something exciting to be able to go with a Right to Life is approaching we’ve been working to get for group of friends, but also with this trip in the same way they a several years now.” people from Notre Dame I have every year. 
Daly said Right to Life has don’t even know. We go and “We would like this year to invited Jenkins’ to march with sleep on a gym floor and are go similarly to other years. I the students every year, but backpacking through the city think that’s kind of normal. I this is the first year he has in a way.” don’t want to hype things up accepted. The students will begin the because Father Jenkins is 
“It’s a testament to people’s day Friday with a Mass and coming, and I don’t think he recognition that this is some-gathering for students, faculty wants that either,” she said. thing that is important, espe-and alumni before embarking “He wants to join us and be cially for Notre Dame to have a on the March. Afterward, the apart of it. That’s something voice in it is key, and this year group will meet for an “ND that has been communicated our numbers are record set-family dinner,” Daly said. to us.” ting,” she said. Fort Wayne-South Bend Daly said she hopes the 
Right to Life president John Bishop Kevin Rhoades will cel-March acts as a unifying event Gerardi said he believes the ebrate a Mass Saturday morn-for the Notre Dame communi­creation task force and ing at St. Ann’s Catholic ty. Jenkins’ participation in the Church in Arlington, Va. “You feel this instant cama-March is a step in the right Gerardi said a big focus of raderie with everyone there,” direction for the University. the trip is uniting students, she said. “It’s really a cool 
“Looking at the task force as faculty and alumni. thing.” a whole, I think they’ve done a “I think it’s a really good lot of good things and I cer-thing that the University as a Contact Madeline Buckley at tainly appreciate help giving whole is attempting to give mbuckley@nd.edu 
Film 
continued from page 1 
cinematography, editing, writing … we’re looking for a creative piece with high pro­duction quality that speaks to a larger audience,” he said. 
Mandell said the festival shows improvement every year. 
“Just about every year we sell out all the shows,” Mandell said. “And each year the films get more sophisti­cated.” 
This year marked the first time student films in the fes­tival were shot with high def­inition cameras, and thanks to a number of funding opportunities, students were also able to travel to various locations. 
“I traveled to L.A. and Colorado,” senior Nick Andert, a Film, Television and Theater (FTT) major said. “I think it’s good that people in creative majors are given a chance to let others see their work.” 
Andert will show the film he made with senior Krissy Estrada, titled “The Documentarian,” in the festi­val. 
After the film festival ends, six additional student films will be available on the Notre Dame iTunesU public site. 
“We wanted to keep the show to under two hours, but this is a way to show more of what our students can do,” Mandell said. 
Marie Wicht, a junior FTT major, has her first film in the festival this year, said although her film took an enormous amount of time, “it’s a learning experience that you can never find in a textbook … it’s chaotic and overwhelming, and worth every minute.” 

Junior Pat Berry, who shares a film in the festival with senior Bob Greenfield, said, that “even if you aren’t a film student you can appre­ciate the hard work these students have put into their projects.” 
According to Mandell, the program has helped build an alumni network. 
“A lot of people don’t real­ize not only the quality of production our students have, but that we even have film production,” Mandell said. “Nobody realizes the network of Notre Dame alums that are working in the film industry, and doing really well. A lot of them got their start with the student film festival.” 
In the end, Mandell said, the festival “is for the stu­dents … you never make movies just for you and your roommates; you’re creating art, and art is for the public.” 
Tickets for the festival can be purchased online at per­formingarts.nd.edu, or by calling 574-631-2800, and are $3 for Notre Dame stu­dents, $5 for faculty and staff, and $6 for the general public. 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler@nd.edu 
ND basketball games to benefit Haiti relief 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will donate the full gate receipts, as well as the net concession rev­enue, from both the men’s and women’s home basketball games this weekend to benefit relief and rebuilding efforts in Haiti. 
The men play DePaul Saturday (Jan. 23) at 2 p.m., and the women take on West Virginia Sunday (Jan. 24) at 1 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion of the Joyce Center. Both games are expected to sell out. 

In addition, the Notre Dame Student-Athlete Advisory Council (SAAC) is organizing a fund drive to be held in conjunction with both games to encourage fans and alumni to make their own personal contributions to aid the relief efforts. 
Petition 
continued from page 1 
“race/ethnicity, color, national ori­gin, sex, disability, veteran status or age.” 
Bears and Jennings are working with other students to gather sig­natures and are coordinating with other student groups and faculty to plan events related to the cause 
— including a rally and panel dis­cussion next Thursday. 
Several student groups have petitioned the administration in the past to amend the non-dis­crimination clause to include “sex­ual orientation,” but to no avail. 
Most recently, the Campaign for Human Dignity, sponsored by the Progressive Student Alliance, pre­sented a petition with some 2,700 signatures to University President Fr. John Jenkins last March. Jenkins told the group he was open to ways to make campus “more welcoming” to the GLBTQ community. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown told The Observer at the time that “after careful analysis from both the legal and theologi­cal perspectives, it was deter­mined that adding the clause may not allow us to distinguish between sexual orientation and behavior, which is a distinction that we must maintain as a Catholic university.” 
Administrators have also refer­enced the University’s “Spirit of Inclusion” document, which states that “[w]e welcome all people, regardless of color, gender, reli­gion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, social or economic class, and nationality for example, precisely because of Christ’s calling to treat others as we deserve to be treat­ed.” 
The statement was adopted in 1997 after a similar petition to amend the clause came from stu­dents, and after student govern­ment and faculty members also spoke out on the issue. 
Jennings said even before 1997, Notre Dame struggled with issues of intolerance towards the GLBTQ community. 
“Notre Dame has a history of hate crimes and violence towards homosexuals on this campus,” she said, noting that when she and Bears met with a group of con­cerned professors, they heard sto­ries from faculty “talking about when they were students [here] and had friends who had been the 
Keenan 
continued from page 1 

“Soviet Strippers,” it was clear from the start the show would be edgy. Sure enough, the Revue delivered, as the audi­ence witnessed appearances from a cross-dressing Miley Cyrus impostor, a lamenting Tiger Woods (accompanied and Web sites like Facebook, Twitter, and Urban Dictionary to come to life. 
“I thought all the Tiger Woods jokes were the funniest,” fresh­man Dan Kinasz said. 
While the show seemed to contain less of the typical “Saint Mary’s jokes” it’s been criticized for including in the past, it still managed to draw out shocked reactions from the audience. While many skits received 

by barber shop trio) and a foul-m o u t h e d anthropomor­ “At certain points, I didn’t know whether we were supposed to  u p r o a r i o u s laughter from the crowd, a few had more  
phized urban­dictionary.com.  laugh or gasp.”  mixed respons­es, as audience  
While nearly all the skits received a posi- Dan Kinasz freshman  members hesi­tated to laugh. “At certain  
tive  response  points, I didn’t  
from the audi­ know whether  

ence, a few stood out above the we were supposed to laugh or rest. gasp,” Kinasz said. 
“The whole show was really “The show definitely pushed funny,” freshman Kevin Doherty the envelope,” freshman Steve said, “but the Web site skit was LaBerge said. “I know it was all the funniest. It was hilarious.” in good fun, but I’m surprised a 
The skit Doherty refers to, the few of the skits made it into the “Tangled Web,” was a crowd show.” favorite. The skit imagines a technological advancement that Contact John Cameron at enables computer programs jcamero2@nd.edu 
victims of such crimes.” 

But this year, Bears said he feels the controversy over the comic strip, plus changes within the stu­dent body over the past few years, lead him to believe now is a good time to again address the issue. 
“A lot has changed, at least in terms of the student body,” Bears said. He said there is a growing awareness of issues surrounding intolerance. 
“I don’t think these kinds of issues were even talked about as they are now,” he said. 
Bears noted the Student Senate’s passing of a resolution on Wednesday that includes a call for “sexual orientation” to be added to the non-discrimination clause as one recent example. 
However, he noted, there still are continued problems of intoler­ance and a lack of awareness among the student body. He cited the widespread, casual use of the word “gay” as a derogatory adjec­tive as one example. 
Bears said while some of that is ingrained in the larger culture, “we (at Notre Dame) pride our­selves on somehow being better than that, or at least we aspire to be better than that.” 
Jennings said the University has the opportunity to, in response to the controversy over last week’s comic, make a change and pub­licly demonstrate it supports the LGBT community through its non­discrimination clause. 
In fact, Jennings said, as the only top-20 university without “sexual orientation” included in the clause, “this is just going to hold us back.” 
In addition to changing the non­discrimination clause, the two said they’re hopeful they can also affect greater awareness on cam­pus about the lingering problems of intolerance of the GLBTQ com­munity through the petition process. 
“We can no longer just ignore these issues,” Jennings said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 



World & Nation 
Friday, January 22, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Rescue hopes dim in Haiti 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — The rubble from the epic earthquake now deathly quiet, search-and-rescue teams packed their dogs and gear Thursday as the focus shifted to keeping injured survivors alive, fending off epidemics and getting help to hundreds of homeless camps. 
“We’re so, so hungry,” said Felicie Colin, 77, lying outside the ruins of her Port-au-Prince nursing home with dozens of other elderly residents who have hardly eaten since the earthquake hit on Jan. 12. 
A melee erupted at one charity’s food distri­bution point as people broke into the store­house, ran off with food and fought each other over the bags. 
Russia wins case over cathedral 
PARIS — A French court ruled Wednesday that a Russian Orthodox cathedral built on the French Riviera nearly a century ago under Czar Nicholas II now belongs to Moscow. 
The ruling by the Nice court is the latest development in Russia’s bid to obtain owner­ship of Orthodox edifices around the world; Italy last year amicably returned to Russia a church in the southern city of Bari. 
Wednesday’s ruling was a defeat for an association founded by Russians who fled the Bolshevik Revolution that has been fighting to maintain its control over the Saint Nicholas Cathedral in Nice, and its archbishop is accus­ing the Russian government of a land grab as part of a national pride campaign. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Candidates rethink after Mass. results 
BOSTON — Former Massachusetts Treasurer Joe Malone said Thursday he expects to run against an incumbent congres­sional Democrat this fall, part of a wave of political recalibrations occurring nationally after Republican Scott Brown’s upset win in the special election to replace Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. 
California Sen. Barbara Boxer, a liberal Democrat facing a re-election challenge, declared “every state is in play now.” The anti-spending group Club for Growth said it’s trying to recruit conservative Rep. Mike Pence to challenge Democratic Sen. Evan Bayh in Indiana. 
Proposition 8 backer stands by view 
SAN FRANCISCO — A proponent of California’s same-sex marriage ban testified Thursday that he thinks gays are more likely to be pedophiles and that allowing them to wed would lead to efforts to lower the age at which teenagers can legally have sex with adults. 
Lawyers for two couples suing to overturn the ban, known as Proposition 8, called Hak-Shing William Tam of San Francisco to testify as a hostile witness to prove that bias toward gays fueled the campaign to pass the measure. 
Proposition 8 sponsors have tried to distance themselves from Tam, even though his name appeared alongside ballot arguments for the measure in voter information pamphlets dur­ing the 2008 campaign. 
In federal court, attorney David Boies spent time walking Tam through a Web site for a Chinese-American evangelical Christian group that featured a headline reading “Studies Show That Homosexuality Is Linked to Pedophilia.” 
LOCAL NEWS 

Senate panel takes up gambling bill 
INDIANAPOLIS — An Indiana Senate com­mittee is considering legislation that would allow casinos on Lake Michigan and the Ohio River to relocate inland. 
Proponents of the bill told the Senate Appropriations Committee on Thursday that moving the casinos on to land could improve their business and help them stave off new competition or possible gambling expansions in neighboring states. 
“This bill will help the gaming industry remain healthy and protect revenues and jobs,” said Republican Sen. Ron Alting of Lafayette, the sponsor of the bill. 
Students respond to racial attacks 
South Philadelphia High School deals with December assaults on ethnic population 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA — The blocks surrounding South Philadelphia High School are a melting pot of pizze­rias fronted by Italian flags, African hair-braiding salons and a growing number of Chinese, Vietnamese and Indonesian restaurants. 
Inside is a cauldron of cultural discontent that erupted in violence last month — off-campus and lunchroom attacks on about 50 Asian students, injuring 30, primarily at the hands of blacks. The Asian stu­dents, who boycotted class­es for more than a week afterward, say they’ve endured relentless bullying by black students while school officials turned a blind eye to their com­plaints. 
“We have suffered a lot to get to America and we did-n’t come here to fight,” Wei Chen, president of the Chinese American Student Association, told the school board in one of several hearings on the violence. “We just want a safe envi­ronment to learn and make more friends. That’s my dream.” 
Philadelphia school offi­cials suspended 10 stu­dents, increased police patrols and installed dozens according to the complaint. “They just want to look at assaulted by 40 students, of new security cameras to It says Asian students’ pleas everybody” for blame, said most of them black. watch the halls, where 70 for help and protection Ali Bailey, 15, a sophomore. In response to this week’s percent of the students are were ignored by school “That’s not cool.” legal filing, the school dis-black and 18 percent Asian. employees. Principal LaGreta Brown, trict said it had not discrim-The Vietnamese embassy Asian students say black the school’s fourth principal inated against anyone and complained to the U.S. State students routinely pelt them in five years, was cited for a pointed to increased securi-Department about the with food, beat, punch and discriminatory attitude, ty efforts since the attacks. attacks and numerous kick them in school hall-particularly for referring to “The claim of ‘intentional groups are investigating, ways and bathrooms, and the advocacy groups’ efforts discrimination’ makes no including the Pennsylvania hurl racial epithets like as “the Asian agenda.” On sense,” a district statement Human Relations “Hey, Chinese!” and “Yo, the morning of the attacks, said. Commission. Dragon Ball!” the complaint says, she Brown did not immediate-
The New York-based Community advocates escorted about 10 fright-ly respond to a message Asian American Legal repeatedly told school and ened Vietnamese students requesting comment. Defense and Education district administrators of past a large group of youths Students, administrators Fund joined the fray this that bullying, according to on a sidewalk. and community leaders say week with a civil rights the legal defense fund’s “If you are afraid, then I many factors are to blame, complaint to the U.S. Justice complaint, which was based will walk with you,” the including language barriers Department on accounts and statements advocacy group says she and cultural differences 
The Philadelphia school by unidentified students and told the students. But she that escalate smaller con-district acted with “deliber-teachers. soon walked away and flicts into fights. Many of the ate indifference” toward the Black students say they all returned to school, the com-Asians are ESL students harassment and failed to are unfairly being blamed plaint says, and the who speak little English and prevent the Dec. 3 attacks, for the actions of a few. Vietnamese students were often must use interpreters. 

Former Sen. Edwards admits baby is his 
deny she was my daughter and hopefully “And he asked me ... to steal a diaper 
Associated Press 

one day, when she understands, she will from the baby so he could secretly do a 
RALEIGH, N.C. — Confirming what forgive me.” DNA test to find out if this (was) indeed practically everyone already suspected, The confession came ahead of the Feb. his child.” John Edwards confessed Thursday he 2 release of a book by former Edwards The scandal may not be over: Federal fathered the baby born to his ex-mistress aide Andrew Young that is expected to prosecutors in North Carolina are inves­
— an admission that came just ahead of describe how Edwards worked to hide tigating Edwards’ campaign finances, a bombshell book by a top aide to the his paternity with Young’s help. apparently with regard to Hunter, whose former Democratic presidential candi-Shortly before the 2008 presidential video production firm was paid at least date. primaries began, Young stepped forward $100,000 in 2006 alone. Edwards’ politi-
Edwards had long denied the girl, to claim that he — not Edwards — was cal career lies in ruins. And a question Frances Quinn Hunter, was his, even the child’s father. But there were suspi-mark hangs over his personal life. after he admitted cheating on his wife cions at the time that the fiercely loyal Edwards’ wife, Elizabeth, who has with the child’s mother, Rielle Hunter. aide was taking the fall for his boss. been battling an incurable return of can-Hunter had been hired before Edwards’ Young said in an excerpt of an ABC cer, said that the “whole family is 2008 White House campaign to shoot interview released Thursday that relieved” by the admission and that she behind-the-scenes video of him. Edwards asked him to arrange a fake hopes it will put an end to the news sto­
“I am Quinn’s father,” the 56-year-old paternity test. ries. “My marriage shouldn’t be on any-former North Carolina senator said in a “Get a doctor to fake the DNA results,” body’s radar screen except mine,” she statement. “It was wrong for me ever to Young quoted the candidate as saying. said. 
page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 22, 2010 
Witness: Peterson indicated he’d kill his 4th wife 
Associated Press 
JOLIET, Ill. — The stepbroth­er of a former Illinois police officer accused of killing his third wife told a hushed court­room Thursday that he believed he might have helped his relative dispose of the body of his fourth wife, who has not been seen for more than two years. 
Thomas Morphey testified at a hearing to decide whether prosecutors can use “hearsay” evidence to try and prove alle­gations that Drew Peterson killed his third wife, Kathleen Savio, in 2004. Peterson hasn’t been charged in the 2007 dis­appearance of his fourth wife, Stacy, but authorities say he is the only suspect. 
While the Will County hear­ing is about the death of Savio, Thursday’s testimony focused on the day Stacy Peterson dis­appeared. Prosecutors would not say why Morphey was being asked to testify about Stacy Peterson, but Will County state’s attorney’s office spokesman Chuck Pelkie said the reasons would become clear in the proceedings. 
In a packed but quiet court­room, Morphey said Peterson suggested when they talked on Oct. 27, 2007, that he intended to kill Stacy because she planned to divorce him, win custody of their children and take Peterson’s money. 
Morphey said he drank heav­ily the next day. 
“I just heard someone was going to murder somebody else,” Morphey explained. 
Peterson brought Morphey back to his Bolingbrook home, went into a master bedroom and rolled out a large blue barrel that Morphey estimated weighed up to 150 pounds. 
“He had me grab an end, he grabbed the other end and we proceeded down the stairs,” Morphey testified. “It felt warm.” 
Morphey stopped short of saying that Peterson directly admitted murdering Stacy and he said the two men never talked about what was in the barrel. Earlier in the day, Morphey testified he had told Peterson that he always assumed he had killed Savio, but that Peterson denied it. 
Savio’s body was found in an empty bathtub in her home in 2004. Her death had initially been ruled an accidental drowning — until Stacy Peterson’s disappearance led officials to exhume Savio’s body, conduct another autopsy and conclude Savio was the victim of a homicide. 
The story of the blue barrel has been central in Stacy Peterson’s case. Numerous search parties over the years, including divers, have focused on finding it, but it has never turned up. 
In court, Morphey said he had not wanted to go with Peterson, in part because he didn’t want anything to do with what Peterson did. Morphey did not explain why he agreed to help him. 
According to his testimony, the two men took the barrel, put it in Peterson’s SUV and Peterson drove Morphey home. 
“’He said, ‘This never hap­pened,’” Morphey testified. “I said, ‘I won’t tell a soul.’” 
Nevertheless, Morphey said he later told his girlfriend, brother and a neighbor. He said he was stressed out, nerv­ous and drinking more than normal. 

Vermont considers changing drinking age 
Associated Press 
MONTPELIER, Vt. — Appealing to Vermont’s independent streak, the former president of Middlebury College said Thursday the state is an ideal place to try returning the legal drinking age to 18. 
John McCardell, who also founded the nonprofit Choose Responsibility, told lawmakers at a Statehouse hearing that a fed­eral law that withholds highway funding from states that don’t abide by a drinking age minimum of 21 has stifled debate on a wor­thy idea. But Mothers Against Drunk Driving argues that such a change would put thousands of lives in danger. 
The 1984 enactment of the National Minimum Drinking Age Act required states to raise the age to 21 or risk losing federal transportation money. South Dakota was the last state to com­ply, in 1988. 
Vermont lawmakers are con­sidering a pair of bills — one to push the drinking age to 18, the other to ask the state’s congres­sional delegation to urge Congress to authorize waivers to states and not punish them by withholding funding. 
Under the current law, states that don’t maintain the 21-year­old minimum risk losing 10 per­cent of their annual federal trans­portation funding. In Vermont, that works out to about $17.5 million, according to John Zicconi, a spokesman for the Vermont Agency of Transportation 
McCardell argues that the high­er age encourages unsafe drink­ing by driving young people into locked dorm rooms, off-campus apartments and farm fields to do their consuming. 
“We can either try to change the reality, which has been our attempt since 1984, and which, as is always the case in times of prohibition, has simply failed. Or we can, through enlightened pub­lic policy, create the safest possi­ble environment for the reality,” he told a legislative committee. 
But Johns Hopkins professor David Jernigan told members of the House General Housing and Military Affairs committee that lowering the drinking age would result in young people experi­menting with alcohol at an earlier age than they do now. Whatever problems the 21 minimum hasn’t addressed should be handled with education, increased taxes on alcohol and more study, not by lowering the minimum, he said. 
Scientists, he said, know more about the makeup of the adoles­cent brain than they did when the law was enacted, namely that the part of the brain that exercises judgment develops substantially later than the part that seeks out reward and risk. 
Morphey said he didn’t con­tact the authorities because he wasn’t sure the incident would be handled fairly due to Peterson’s job. 
“He was a police officer,” Morphey said. “I thought, ‘What would be the point of calling 911?’” 
Morphey said his fear led him to overdose on the anti-anxiety drug Xanax in an attempt to end his life. 
“I felt everything was coming down on me,” he said. “I’m still scared to death.” 
In a cross-examination, Peterson’s attorneys raised questions about Morphey’s mental state and whether was a credible witness. 
Morphey suffers from a bipo­lar disorder and has admitted to drinking too much as well as problems with drugs. On Thursday prosecutors present­ed evidence that buttressed what Morphey said happened. That included video footage and witness interviews show­ing that both men made a trip to Starbucks around the time of the alleged blue barrel inci­dent. 
Peterson’s stormy marriage with Savio was mentioned Thursday in afternoon testimo­ny. 
A son from Peterson’s first marriage to Carol Brown described watching Peterson in 1993 dragging Savio into the house by her hair. 
“She was screaming for help,” said Eric Peterson, who described Savio as drunk. “He was pulling her down the stairs.” 
Eric Peterson, who once spent weekends with Savio and Peterson, has been estranged from his father since 1993. 




The Observer 

Business
Friday, January 22, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Arkansas Tech opens business hall 
RUSSELLVILLE, Ark. — Arkansas Tech University’s business college marked the opening of its new $10 million home on Thursday and gave students new options to specialize in specific areas of emphasis. 
The busy lobby of Rothwell Hall opens on one side to student advising offices and on the other to a stock trading lab. The glass-walled classroom has widescreen computers for 24 students plus a set of screens flashing stock prices, exchange rates and other information. The showpiece also has a double-size whiteboard with two projectors that the instructor can use to illustrate lessons. 
A color stock ticker runs along the top of the walls and extends into the lobby. 
“This building incorporates everything our stu­dents and faculty wanted to have,” Business College Dean Tom Tyler said. 
Arkansas Tech President Robert. C. Brown said the campus has struggled to make room for all its offerings and that was a “driving force” for con­struction. 
Lawmakers angry over bank closure 
WASHINGTON — Federal regulators received a verbal lashing Thursday from House lawmak­ers over the shutdown of a Chicago bank strong­ly tied to the local community and the govern­ment’s handling of bank closings. 
Picking over the carcass of Park National Bank 
— a relatively healthy institution closed by regu­lators last October — were a House Financial Services subcommittee, bank executives and fed­eral agency officials. Park National and tiny Citizens National Bank, based in Teague, Texas, were in comparatively good financial shape but were shuttered along with seven severely trou­bled banks under the same corporate umbrella, a bank holding company called FBOP Corp. The other banks were mostly in the West; the nine had combined assets of $19.4 billion. 
While big Wall Street banks got multibillion­dollar bailouts, community banks that played no role in stoking the financial crisis were subjected to stricter rules on lending and holding capital from overreaching regulators, lawmakers said at a hearing. And they insisted that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and other agencies are shutting down banks that have healthy loans rather than working out the institutions’ prob­lems. 
Builders choose cheaper options 
Homebuilders move to a less-is-more approach in response to economic troubles 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS — Think of it as the shrinking American dream. 
What’s out: Outdoor kitchens and fireplaces, two-story foyers and deluxe bathroom features like multiple showerheads in the master bathroom. 
What’s in: Smaller homes with lots of natural light, storage and energy efficien­cy features that save money 
— and don’t cost too much. 
“There’s no more ‘la-dee­da, green is wonderful,” said Calli Schmidt, a spokeswoman for the National Association of Home Builders. 
The housing trends were highlighted in separate sur­veys conducted by the Washington-based trade association and Better Homes and Gardens, released this week at the International Builders’ Show in Las Vegas which ends Friday. They surveys showed there’s less appetite than in recent years for big homes decked out with high-end amenities. 
Now, the mantra for many homebuyers reflects a desire to keep costs down. They want to reduce wasted space like high ceil­ings that drive up energy bills. They favor features energy-saving windows, Agency. That’s up from 11 used to vent the hot air that like smart appliances that energy-efficient lighting percent in 2007. builds up in an attic. A sin-help cut household energy and appliances, and an Solar energy continues to gle unit can ventilate up to costs. insulated front door. be a big draw. 1,600 square feet. 
The average size of an About a quarter of 1,100 CertainTeed Corp. Light-emmitting diodes, American house shrank exhibitors at the Builders’ showed a new roof solar or LEDs, continue to be a about 100 square feet last show were hawking green power system designed to pricier, though longer-last­year to about 2,400 square homebuilding products. fit flush with asphalt shin-ing, alternative to compact feet, according to the NAHB The displays included gles, giving it a more fluorescent lights. One survey. The percentage of everything from stream-streamlined look than tra-knock against LED home homes with three or more lined solar panels to ener-ditional solar panels. fixtures is the light they bathrooms fell for the first gy-saving windows. There A similar solar energy produce doesn’t approach time since 1992, while were water and energy-system unveiled by Dow the warm, soft glow of an homes with four or more stingy appliances, as well Chemical last year incandescent light bulb, but bedrooms declined for the as an array of flooring impressed Beazer Homes, the technology is improv­third year in a row. materials made from sus-which plans to use it in a ing. 
Builders said they’re less tainable or recycled materi-test house. Cooper Lighting’s new likely to build homes this als. “I’ve just not seen any-Halo LED recessed lighting year with outdoor kitchens, Up to a quarter of all new thing that thin,” said Tony fixtures consume 75 per-media rooms and sun-homes built last year Callahan, an executive with cent less energy than a 65­rooms. The next generation received an Energy Star Atlanta-based Beazer watt incandescent light, but of homes, builders said, are rating, which means they Homes USA Inc. last 50 times longer. They more likely to have a walk-met the guidelines for ener-Another company, Broan-also boast light that is com-in closet in the master bed-gy efficiency set by the U.S. NuTone, showcased its sun-parable in color and reach room, a laundry room, Environmental Protection light-powered roof fans, to an incandescent light. 

Winter storms cause flight cancellations 
Associated Press California airports. All Southwest cities, said spokeswoman Olga takeoffs and landings at airports in Romero. There are a similar number 
PHOENIX — Winter weather Burbank, Ontario and San Diego in of arrivals. stranded thousands of airline pas-California were suspended, most US Airways trimmed its Phoenix sengers on Thursday in a most were canceled at John Wayne airport flight schedule and had canceled 14 unusual place: the desert Southwest. in Orange County, and some were mainline and 12 US Airways Express 
Flights into and out of Phoenix Sky canceled at Los Angeles International flights. Other operations were contin-Harbor International Airport were Airport. uing as weather allowed, said airline severely curtailed on Thursday after-Airline spokesman Brad Hawkins spokeswoman Valerie Wunder. US noon because of high winds from a said more than 400 California and Airways has 265 daily departures winter storm that dumped heavy rain Arizona flights had been canceled as from Phoenix. and deep snow on much of Arizona of early afternoon. Passengers were United Airlines and other carriers and California. A limited number of booked on later Southwest flights. severely curtailed operations at Sky Phoenix planes were still taking off Operations were expected to resume Harbor. and landing. at 4 p.m. in San Diego and at 6 p.m. A strong winter storm moving 
Southwest Airlines canceled all in Burbank and Ontario. through the West was the culprit. arriving and departing flights at Sky The exact number of Southwest The National Weather Service pre-Harbor and didn’t plan to resume flights affected in Phoenix wasn’t dicted up to 7 inches of rain could them until Friday. available, but the airline has 173 fall on Thursday and Friday in the 
The airline also canceled flights in daily nonstops from Phoenix to 44 Phoenix area, and high winds were Tucson, Ariz., and at Southern cities and additional service to 22 blowing Thursday afternoon. 
page 8 The Observer  NEWS Friday, January 22, 2010 
Haitian orphans go to Netherlands 

Associated Press 
EINDHOVEN, Netherlands 
— Enveloped in his new mother’s embrace, 4-year-old Jersen Silvester Eefting gazed wide -eyed around a hotel lobby at the end of an 11­hour flight that whisked him from the devastation of Haiti to his new home in the Netherlands. 
“It feels magnificent,” said Roel Eefting as he videoed the newly adopted son he had met minutes earlier. 
Jersen was one of 123 chil­dren, aged from two months to seven years , flown into this southern Dutch city Thursday. They arrived on a plane chartered by the Dutch government and two adoption agencies to airlift children out of Haiti to new lives in the Netherlands and Luxembourg. 
Wrapped in blankets against the cold of a Dutch midwinter, the children walked or were carried one by one from the Boeing 767 to a bus that fer­ried them to the terminal of Eindhoven Military Air Base. There they had an emotional private meeting with their new families. 
One boy waved to reporters and said a word that sounded like “Dag” — Dutch for hello. Another wore striped socks and no shoes. Graying piles of snow lined the edge of the tarmac. 
None of the children was hurt in last week’s earth ­quake. But Macky Schouten, head of the Netherlands Adoption Foundation, said it was difficult getting them from their orphanages in Haiti to the choked Port-Au-Prince airport. 
“They had to come from dif­ferent houses in a situation that was very dangerous,” she said. 
The children were accompa­nied on the flight by medics and psychologists trained to deal with post traumatic stress, Schouten said. 
The children slept through most of the flight. Then, two and a half hours from Eindhoven, they woke up, had a meal and a drink — and started doing what kids do the world over. 
“It was a big playground in the plane,” Schouten said. 
The quake may have killed 200,000 people, and it left thousands of children orphaned. That triggered a rush of inquiries from around the world about adopting a child from the impoverished Caribbean country — which before the quake already had about 380,000 orphans in need of homes. 
Experts have warned against taking newly orphaned children out of Haiti or rushing adoption proce­dures. UNICEF said it was working to prevent children being abused and exploited and to reunite them with fam­ily members. 
Earlier this week, 54 orphans arrived in the U.S. city of Pittsburgh. They were given medical care and placed in group homes until adop­tions are finalized. 
Most of the children who arrived in the Netherlands had already been matched with new parents. Some — like Jersen — were being introduced to them for the first time. 
Nine had been approved for adoption but not yet matched with families; they will be placed in foster care until parents are found. Fourteen were going into the care of Luxembourg’s adoption authorities. 
Some of the children speak a little Dutch, having had daily lessons in a Dutch-run orphanage in Haiti. 
Eefting said he and his part­ner, Imelda Hutten, started the adoption process four and a half years ago. They were close to traveling to Haiti to pick up Jersen when the quake struck. 
As Jersen started settling into his new family, his father’s joy was tempered by news that two Dutch couples were killed in the quake, along with the three Haitian children they had just adopt­ed. 
“We are happy, but at the same time we are very aware of the sorrow for people who adopted children and died and the people who died in Haiti,” he said. “It puts this into perspective.” 

Ruling could alter campaign finance 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — A major 
U.S. Supreme Court ruling on campaign finance Tuesday could alter drastically who gives and gets hundreds of millions of dollars ahead of the November congressional elec­tions. 
The top U.S. court threw out a 63-year-old law designed to restrain the influence of big business and unions, ruling that corporations may spend as freely as they like to sup­port or oppose candidates for president and Congress. 
By a 5-4 vote, the court over­turned two of its own decisions as well as the law that said companies and labor unions could be prohibited from using money from their general treasuries to produce and run their own campaign ads. The decision threatens similar lim­its imposed by 24 states. 
It leaves in place a prohibi­tion on direct contributions to candidates from corporations and unions. 
Critics of the stricter limits have argued that they amount to an unconstitutional restraint of free speech, and the court majority agreed. 
“The censorship we now confront is vast in its reach,” Justice Anthony Kennedy said in his majority opinion, joined by his four more conservative colleagues. 
Strongly disagreeing, Justice John Paul Stevens said in his dissent, “The court’s ruling threatens to undermine the integrity of elected institutions around the nation.” 
Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor joined Stevens’ dissent, parts of which he read aloud in the courtroom. 

The justices also struck down part of the landmark McCain-Feingold campaign finance bill that barred union-and corporate-paid ads on political issues in the closing days of election campaigns. 
President Barack Obama condemned the decision as a victory for big oil, Wall Street banks, health insurance com­panies and other powerful interests. 
The ruling will lead to a “stampede of special interest money in our politics,” Obama said in a statement. He pledged to work with Democrats and Republicans in Congress to come up with a “forceful response” to the high court’s action. 
Sen. Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader who filed the first lawsuit challeng­ing the McCain-Feingold law, praised the court for restoring the free speech rights of corpo­rations and unions. “By previ­ously denying this right, the government was picking win­ners and losers,” McConnell said. 
Advocates of strong cam­paign finance regulations have predicted that a court ruling against the limits would lead to a flood of corporate and union money in federal cam­paigns as early as this year’s elections in November. 
The opinion goes to the heart of laws dating back to the Gilded Age of the early 20th century, when Congress passed the Tillman Act in 1907 to banned corporations from donating money directly to fed­eral candidates. Although that prohibition stands, the same cannot be said for much of the centurylong effort that fol­lowed to separate politics from corporate money. 
In American politics, unions tend to support Democratic candidates and causes, and industry generally prefers can­didates and causes supported by Republicans 
The decision’s most immedi­ate effect is to allow corpora­tions and unions to sponsor political ads right up to the moment of an election, and to allow them to advocate for the election or defeat of a candi­date. In presidential elections and in highly contested con­gressional contests, that could mean a dramatic increase in television advertising compet­ing for time and public atten­tion. 
In the long term, corpora­tions, their industry associa­tions and labor unions are free to tap their treasuries to assist candidates, although the spending may not be coordi­nated with the candidates. 
Ben Ginsberg, a Republican attorney who has represented several of the party’s presiden­tial campaigns. “If corpora­tions and unions can give unlimited amounts, ... it means that the public debate is signif­icantly changed with a lot more voices and it means that the loudest voices are going to be corporations and unions.” 



Friday, January 22, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Trial begins for NYC cops in attack 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Lawyers defending three police officers charged in a subway station baton sex attack case portrayed the accuser as a scammer who made up the story to get money from the city. 
In opening statements Thursday, defense lawyer John Patton said former tattoo parlor employee Michael Mineo was not sodomized by a police baton and there was no evidence to prove Mineo’s statements that he was attacked with it in 2008. 
“Once you’ve seen Mr. Mineo, you’ll find him a theatrical, pos­ing type of individual who’s going to make a claim,” said Patton, who represents Officer Richard Kern. 
Kern, who was 25 at the time, is charged with aggravated sex­ual abuse and assault. He is on trial with officers Alex Cruz and Andrew Morales, who are accused of covering up the attack. They are charged with hindering prosecution and offi­cial misconduct. 
All three have pleaded not guilty. If convicted, Kern could face up to 25 years in prison; the others could face up to four years. They could also be fired from the department. 
A fourth officer at the scene, Cruz’s partner, has not been charged and was expected to testify for the prosecution. 
Despite the seriousness of the charges, the case has not brought public outcry like other instances of alleged police abuse. A few officers and Patrick Lynch, head of the patrolman’s union, appeared in court Thursday, but there were no protests or demonstrations outside. 
It was a contrast to the protests and show of police sup­port at the 2007 case of officers accused in the shooting death of Sean Bell, who was killed in a hail of 50 police bullets on his wedding day. 

The response to the Bell trial was tame in the wake of the Abner Louima case a decade ago, where thousands of pro­testers marched across the Brooklyn Bridge to protest police abuse. Louima was beat­en and sodomized with a broomstick in a police precinct by officers in 1997 in one of the worst cases of brutality in NYPD history. 
Race figured heavily into the Louima case and stoked ten­sions in the city, with Louima being black and the officers white. In the current case, Mineo is white, and the officers black, white and Hispanic. 
Assistant District Attorney Charles Guria said the con­frontation began when the offi­cers were called to a fast-food restaurant on a report of a stolen cell phone on the after­noon of Oct. 15, 2008, and saw Mineo, who was smoking pot, and a friend, he said. 
“I don’t care what kind of law Michael Mineo broke, there’s no explanation, no excuse,” Guria said in his opening statement. 
Realizing he had been spotted, Mineo swallowed what was left of the joint and bolted for the subway, Guria said. 
Witness Andrea Dallas, out­side awaiting her husband who worked at the station and was inside with their child during the incident, testified she saw Mineo running, his pants sagging and his rear end showing, pursued by the officers. 
Most of the officers chased him across the street and down into the station, where he was eventually handcuffed. On the ground, his hands behind his back, Kern sodomized him with the baton while Cruz yelled insults at him, prosecutors said. 
Dallas’ 13-year-old son, James Avery, testified that he heard one of the officers suggest Mineo had hidden drugs up his butt. 
They brought him outside screaming and instead of arrest­ing him, they wrote him a sum­mons for disorderly conduct and let him go, telling him they’d arrest him if he ever told any­one, investigators said. The summons had a bad date and it would never have gone before a judge, Guria said. 
“The officers were trying to make sure Michael Mineo didn’t go to a hospital, didn’t go to a police station,” Guria said. 
Guria said Mineo’s DNA was found on Kern’s baton, his boxer shorts were ripped and he was admitted to the hospital with injuries. A medical record obtained by The Associated Press described Mineo as being the victim of an “anal assault.” 
The AP does not usually iden­tify people alleging sexual assault, but shortly after the attack, Mineo’s lawyers issued a news release naming him with his approval. He has repeatedly made public statements about the encounter. 
Defense attorneys say Mineo is a crafty scam artist who is using the media and the district attor­ney’s office to get a big payday. He filed a civil suit against the city for $220 million. Those pro­ceedings will come after the criminal case. 
Cruz’s attorney, Stuart London, said his client’s partner kicked Mineo and threw him to the ground after the officers nabbed him. London suggested the partner, Noel Jugraj, wasn’t on trial because he agreed to testify against the other three officers. 

Pilot lands plane because of prayer 

Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA — A Jewish teen trying to pray on a New York -to -Kentucky flight caused a scare when he pulled out a set of small boxes containing holy scrolls, leading the captain to divert the flight to Philadelphia, where the commuter plane was greeted by police, bomb-sniffing dogs and federal agents. 
The 17 -year-old on US Airways Express Flight 3079 was using tefillin, a set of small boxes containing bibli­cal passages that are attached to leather straps, said Philadelphia police Lt. Frank Vanore. 
When used in prayer, one box is strapped to the arm while the other box is placed on the head. 
“It’s something that the average person is not going to see very often, if ever,” FBI spokesman J.J. Klaver said. 
The teen explained the ritu­al after being questioned by crew members of the flight, which had left LaGuardia Airport around 7:30 a.m. headed for Louisville and was 
operated by Chautauqua Airlines, authorities said. 
Officials with the airline, however, said crew members “did not receive a clear response” when they talked with the teen, according to a statement issued by Republic Airways, which owns Chautauqua. 
“Therefore, in the interest of everyone’s safety, the crew decided to land in Philadelphia, where a more complete investigation and follow -up with authorities would be possible,” the state­ment said. 
The flight landed in Philadelphia about 9 a.m. without incident and was met by police, bomb-sniffing dogs and officials from the FBI and Transportation Security Administration. 
Authorities said the plane was searched and passengers were questioned. The teen, who is from White Plains, N.Y., and was traveling with his 16-year-old sister, was very cooperative, Vanore said. 
“They were more alarmed than we were,” Vanore said. 
Klaver said the teen and his sister were never in custody, and were cleared to continue their travels. 
The teen’s grandmother, who was waiting for him at Louisville International Airport, said the early flight left no time to pray before leaving New York. 
“They had a morning flight. My grandson didn’t have a chance to pray, ” Frances Winchell told WLKY-TV. 
The teen, who belongs to the congregation Young Israel of White Plains, is “a brilliant student” from “the sweetest family,” said Shmuel Greenberg, the synagogue’s rabbi. 
The morning prayer ritual is supposed to take place within a few hours of sunrise, so it’s understandable that the teen was doing it on the plane, Greenberg said. 
Binding the boxes of holy scrolls to the arm and head serves as “a reminder for the person that their actions dur­ing the day, and what they think about during the day, should be on a level of holi­ness and should inspire them to do productive, good things,” he said. 
The rabbi said he could see how someone unfamiliar with the tefillin could be alarmed. 
“Security today is a serious issue. You can’t become edu­cated up in the air,” Greenberg said. “I can defi­nitely see a pilot or a crew that never saw it before in today’s environment be very, very concerned.” 
Another rabbi, however, said tefillin have been used for thousands of years and he found it hard to believe no one recognized it. Benjamin Blech, an assistant professor 
of Talmud at Yeshiva University in New York, said he found the incident “both humorous and outlandish” and called it a “wake-up call” for religious sensitivity. 
“We should be aware of ignorance just as much as we should be aware of terror­ism,” he said. 
Concerns about passengers carrying bombs have been heightened since a Nigerian man allegedly tried to blow up a Detroit-bound Northwest Airlines flight using explo­sives concealed in his pants. 
The Republic statement said the airline would use the event “to further strengthen 
our commitment to both security and customer serv­ice.” 
The flight was carrying 15 passengers and three crew members; travelers were rebooked on other flights, US Airways spokesman Morgan Durrant said. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, Januray 22, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Douglas Farmer Amanda Gray Allan Joseph Carly Landon Andrew Owens Graphics Viewpoint 
Jaclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz 
Scene 
Adriana Pratt 

Join others in the fight against discrimination 



Use your passion for something productive. 
A good adage to live life by, but here it refers to a specif­ic situation. A group of Notre Dame students are circulat­ing a petition to present to the University asking it to add sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause. It’s not a new cause, but it’s a necessary cause. 
It’s clear that this issue has support on campus. Many different student groups have proposed similar changes, 
might blur the line between orientation and practice and that that distinction, at a Catholic university, needed to be maintained. 
There are dozens of other Catholic universities in the country, however, that include sexual orientation in their non-discrimination clauses and also have GLBTQ student groups with official club status, another thing Notre Dame will not allow. 
This issue has continued to arise, and for good reason. The community needs to accept GLBTQ members fully. For the most part it does, but the University has not officially recognized this acceptance through the non-discrimina­tion clause. The “Spirit of Inclusion” statement is not enough. 
Unfortunately, official recognition is not the student’s 
to include sexual orientation in their anti-discriminatory clause because that somehow endorses homosexual activ­ity. I vote Jesuit! I went to the University of Detroit Mercy, a Jesuit school, and this is their non-discrimination clause: “The Program does not discriminate based on race, age, creed, gender, sexual orientation, color, nation­al origin, marital status, religion, or any other factor pro­hibited by law. This applies to all aspects of its opera­tions.” Oh Snap Notre Dame! The Jesuits have very good credentials. They have been around for many centuries, and their priests are well qualified. 
Another great Jesuit school, Boston College has the fol­lowing non-discrimination clause: “Founded by the Society of Jesus in 1863, Boston College is dedicated to intellectual excellence and to its Jesuit, Catholic heritage. Boston College recognizes the essential contribution a diverse community of students, faculty and staff makes to the advancement of its goals and ideals in an atmosphere of respect for one another and for the University’s mission and heritage. Accordingly, Boston College commits itself to maintaining a welcoming environment for all people and extends its welcome in particular to those who may be vulnerable to discrimination, on the basis of their race, call. What students need to do is sign this petition. And on Tuesday, show their support for the cause by wearing a “Gay? Fine By Me” T-shirt. Use your passion about this issue for something productive. 
The responses from both within and outside the University and College communities to The Observer’s Jan. 13 comic displayed the outrage that results from discrimi­nation against the GLBTQ community — and rightfully so. 
most recently the Campaign for Human Dignity in March 2009. The group, spon­sored by the Progressive Student Alliance, collected more than 2,700 signatures. 
Yet their requests were turned down, told by University President Fr. John Jenkins that the non-discrimination clause is a legal doc­ument, and adding sexual orientation to it 
You’ve communicated your passion to us at The Observer in the form of e-mails, letters and phone calls, and we appreciate that. Now you have the opportunity to do the same with the University, to use your passion for something productive like this petition. 
The current Observer Editorial Board has supported this petition in the past. In our 
March 20 editorial, we noted that the Princeton Review has in the past ranked Notre Dame No. 1 in the “Alternative Lifestyles Not An Alternative” category — a clear signal that there are issues surrounding the accept­ance of the GLBTQ community on our campus. 
We continue to support this petition and the goals it seeks. 
A University needs to create a welcoming sense of com­munity to all its students. The University and those in its community do not have to choose between Catholic teach­ing and acceptance of its members; in fact, the two can and should go hand in hand. 
So harness that passion. Sign the petition. Encourage your friends to do the same. Help the student body display just how important this issue is. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The Jesuits have it right 
The University of Notre Dame has said they do not want ethnic or national origin, religion, color, age, gender, mar­
ital or parental status, veteran status, disabilities or sexu­al orientation. 
“Boston College rejects and condemns all forms of harassment, wrongful discrimination and disrespect. It has developed procedures to respond to incidents of harassment whatever the basis or circumstance. Moreover it is the policy of Boston College, while reserv­ing its lawful rights where appropriate to take actions designed to promote the Jesuit, Catholic principles that sustain its mission and heritage, to comply with all state and federal laws prohibiting discrimination in employ­ment and in its educational programs on the basis of a person’s race, religion, color, national origin, age, sex, marital or parental status, veteran status, or disability, and to comply with state law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of a person’s sexual orientation.” 
I bet most Jesuit schools have similar, welcoming envi­ronments. Go Irish! Beat Discrimination! 
Robert McKeon 
graduate student off campus Jan. 20 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The last temptation is the greatesttreason: To do the right deed for thewrong reason.” 
T.S. Eliot British dramatist and poet 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Sports do not build character. They reveal it.” 
Heywood Broun 
U.S. journalist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, January 22, 2010 page 11 
Counseling at the Women’s Care Center 

In this column, “The Notre Dame They Know,” I will interview individuals who have been influenced by the University of Notre Dame. 
I will seek to discover the unique role that Notre Dame has played in their 
Thomas Bounds 
life and vocational journey. 
It is hoped that 

The Notre Dame 
this column will 

They Know 
inculcate a deeper, more honest and more profound love for Our Lady and Her University. 
A slate-gray sky hovers over half-melted piles of snow surrounding the entrance to the brown-brick Women’s Care Center a mile south of campus. 
Inside, Ann Manion, seated in a brown leather chair and wearing a blue and green shirt with gray slacks, is all smiles and laughter as she shares her story. 
“I graduated from Notre Dame in 1977 and went to work as an accountant at Price Waterhouse Cooper. When I got married and had a baby, I stopped working to become a stay-at-home mom. 
“Janet Smith, a professor at Notre Dame, had founded the Center in a little blue house north of downtown in 1984. 
“I was working with the Center in 1988 when Janet, who was leaving to teach in Dallas, took me out for pizza and said, ‘Ann, you’ve got to take this over.’ 
“I’ve volunteered here since then as the President and Executive Director of the Center.” 
Asked about the particular activities of the Center, Ann responds, “The Center’s mission is to help young women have the opportunity to choose life for their babies. We also work to help them have healthy pregnancies, and to become better parents-to take steps to self-sufficiency. 
“It’s inspiring to hear the stories about these women that are planning to abort. They are having terrible struggles in their lives and then, with just a little bit of hope, encouragement and positive support, they make a turn around and become great moms or give their babies for adoption. They grow in all kinds of ways. It’s very empowering and exciting to be a part of that.” 
In its 25 years of operation, the Center has grown from a single office to 16 Centers in four states, and has served over 100,000 women. The Centers provide free pregnancy testing, ultrasounds, prenatal care, parenting classes and a baby store for mothers and their families. 
“We did a recent study,” Ann comments, “and discovered that 97 percent of abor­tion-minded women that came for counsel­ing and an ultra-sound [at the Fort Wayne Center] chose life … Over the past nine years, there has been a 37 percent decline in the number of abortions performed annually in St. Joe County.” 
Asked about the methods of the Center, Ann explains, “Our head counselor often says that she’s never met a woman who wanted to have an abortion. It’s something a woman chooses because she’s desperate and doesn’t have other viable options. We provide her a calm place to help her work on the obstacles that are discouraging her from keeping her baby. 
“The Center takes a non-judgmental, unconditionally loving approach to provide help, hope and assistance to those in need. There is no lecturing or preaching.” 
Asked about those who work for the Center, Ann says, “People are committed to this place because of their faith and their belief in the pro-life cause. You have to be really committed to this work. It’s not just a job, it’s a mission: A mission to help women choose life and to help them become better people. 
“I think that our counselors benefit from our clients as well. They see a lot of hero­ism. It’s not easy to bring a baby into the world when you’re single, young, or poor.” 
To those considering an abortion, Ann says, “Just come in.” 
“Last year,” Ann recalls, “a woman came into the Center. She was 24 years old. She wasn’t sad to be pregnant; she was happy. She was married and employed. 
“She met with one of our counselors, who couldn’t figure out why this woman had come to the Center. She didn’t fit any of the descriptions. She kept thanking us for being here, for all that we’d done. 
“Our counselor said to her, ‘That’s great, but I don’t know how we’ve helped you. You seem like you’ve got it all together. 

“And she responded, ‘You don’t under­stand. Twenty-five years ago, my mom came to the Center. She was planning to have an abortion, but because of the Center she chose life and here I am!’ 
“It was a really cool story. And then you start thinking, ‘Now this woman’s going to have a baby that wouldn’t be there.’ You’ve got this whole generation of people that wouldn’t otherwise be here. 
“And she’s doing great. She’s not on wel­fare, or any of those things you worry about. She’s successful, happily married and just a wonderful human being. 
“Last year was our 25th anniversary. She must have been one of the first ones through the door.” 
Thomas Bounds is a pro-life senior. He reminds everyone that today, the 37th anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision, has been designated a day of prayer and penance for U.S. Catholics by the Holy See. He can be contacted at tbounds@nd.edu 
Ann Manion, the President and Director of the Women’s Care Center, can be contacted at annmanion1@hotmail.com She encourages anyone considering an abortion to visit womenscarecenter.org for help and information. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Forgive and forget 
Everyone makes mistakes. 

In regards to the cartoon (The Mobile Party, Jan. 13), everyone involved apologized, the edi­tor resigned and the cartoon was banded. I believe that the apologies and actions taken after were done in full spirit and I am tired of reading people’s reactions to something that has been apologized for again and again. 
As Christians, or even just as people, we are taught to forgive. This is not the last time someone will make an offensive joke about you and that statement can be applied to everyone. That is an unfortunate but real part of life and thinking otherwise is sadly unrealistic. Sure being made fun of sucks, but push that experi­ence out of the way and use it to make yourself a stronger person. 
Patrick McHugh 
senior off campus Jan. 21 


Goodbye Mr. Carroll, thanks for the memories 
The first time I saw Pete Carroll coach in person was in 2001 at Notre Dame Stadium. I was a freshman in high school that was first becoming infatuated with Notre Dame Football (and college football in general). The Irish won that game, the last time the Irish beat the Trojans, as both teams went on to have disappointing seasons. Since that year, however, the Trojans have been a college football juggernaut while our beloved Irish have been something of a national joke. 
As our Irish have floundered through numerous coaches over the past decade, Pete Carroll has built our rival into a team that was unquestion-Bob Kessler ably the best of the aughts. USC won 


1.5 national championships, their pro-The 17th gram produced three Heisman Trophy Grade winners (until Reggie Bush’s is taken away), they have dominated the Pac-10 almost every year, sent countless players to the NFL, and held an iron clad grasp on that jeweled shillelagh that we covet so very much (raise your hand if you couldn’t name the trophy for our rivalry until now). 
Most of these years, the Irish have been a punching bag for the Trojans. In Carroll’s typical game against our guys, the Trojans win by 30 points. Every once in a while (ok, twice) the Irish put up a fight, only to lose it all at the last second. Notre Dame fans have been crushed time and again by Carroll-coached teams and I should be ecstatic that the coach is finally rolling the dice with another NFL franchise. 
The thing is: I’m not ecstatic, but I’m actually a bit disap­pointed (or I was, as you’ll read). 
The thing about Pete Carroll was that he had a great per­sonality. He was a fun-loving coach that always seemed to be joking about things. He constantly played pranks on his team and brought celebrities to practice. When Carroll was on the sideline, Will Ferrell and Snoop Dogg were never too far behind. We knew Carroll was actually a person because he showed emotion during games (unlike Alabama’s RoboCoach). 
Behind Carroll’s goofy demeanor, we also assumed that he was a cheater. We assumed that Reggie Bush had an agent in 2005, we assumed that the recruitment of Joe McNight was tainted, no woand we assumed that Carroll knew all about these things. We derided the ‘Bush Push’ because it was cheating and we always made sure to point out that LSU (and not USC) won the 2003 BCS Championship (with RoboCoach at the helm). 
I’m disappointed that Pete Carroll is leaving USC because these things make him incredibly easy to hate, and college football fans (well, all sports fans) love to hate people (Simmons disciples like myself might mention the term ‘sports-hate’). How could we not hate his goofiness on the sidelines or his pranks during practices? It is incredibly easy to hate a guy that brings Will Ferrell (especially post-Bewitched Ferrell) to practices, and even easier to hate a program that brings Snoop Dogg on the sidelines (and even easier to hate Snoop Dogg when he makes the Heisman pose wearing a USC jersey). 
Rooting against Pete Carroll was as easy as rooting against Ivan Drago. While we would have hated both just because of the teams they represented (USC and the USSR), the recruiting violations and obvious steroid use respective­ly made them even more villainous characters. Throw in the downright annoying personalities and we are left with classic villains in the mold of Darth Vader or the general in Avatar. 
However, now that Pete Carroll is leaving, we’ll never have a chance to get the best of him. We’ll never get a chance at redemption for all those American History X-style curb stompings that his teams put on us. It would be like if “Avatar” ended when that gigantic tree was destroyed and the scientists were in prison (sorry for the spoiler, but I assume everybody has seen it by now). I want the Irish to have their chance to shoot arrows into Pete Carroll and the mech-warrior type program that he has assembled. 
I’m also disappointed that Carroll is leaving because a win against him would have been a win against the best. I don’t want a win against USC because they are mired in sanctions or struggling through a rebuilding process; I want a win against USC because our team was able to go toe to toe with the best team in the land and come out on top. A win against Drago would have meant nothing if Drago was just some random Russian boxer, and a win against USC will mean a lot less (although admittedly not as much less) if USC isn’t the powerhouse that it has been. 
I want to beat the powerhouse that has the goofy-evil­cheater head coach, and when I first heard Pete Carroll was moving to the Seahawks I was really worried that USC would no longer be the power that they once were or still have a coach that it was easy to hate. But then (after I had already completed most of this column) they hired Lane Kiffin, the one coach in all of college football that will arguably be easier to hate than Carroll has been. 
“Kiffin-Kelly I” is coming in November, and I can hardly wait. 
Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate currently teaching English in China. He writes Things Notre Dame Students Like, and you can read more of his work including his thoughts on Jon Gruden at www.the17thgrade.com 
He can be contacted at bob020787@gmail.com The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Friday, January 22, 2010 

By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
Starting with last night’s premiere and running through Saturday, the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will play host to one of the great gems of an event on Notre Dame’s campus, the 21st Annual Notre Dame Film Festival. 
Featuring a series of student-produced short films made as class projects during the past year, the festival has served for 20 years as a celebra­tion of the work of aspiring filmmakers as well as a chance for those student filmmakers to gain a wider audience for films that would have oth­erwise stayed in the classroom. Spanning every­thing from dark comedies, to tension-ridden sus­pense thrillers, to a documentary about a film­maker and covering locations ranging from our very own South Bend to Northern California to Florida, the festival combines an entertaining and intriguing mix of genres and locations that add to the fresh, original feel of the experience. 
The festival screens each night at 6:30 and 
9:30 p.m. and features 15 films, with a few vari­ations in the two screenings due to time con­straints. In addition, there are six films not being shown during the festival that can be viewed online at ftt.nd.edu 
This year’s festival combines an abundance of documentaries made with a keen eye for the genre, and — in certain cases like that of the film “Artzainak: Shepards and Sheep” — made with grace and packed with shots that sit like still images against a clear sky. 
In addition, there are three films embracing the tough-to-master but classic-feeling medium of black-and-white filmmaking. Then throw into the mix a few incredibly original scripts in “(Non)fiction” and “Subtext,” both memorable in their own right. 
But it’s the documentaries that unlike last year steal the show here both in presence and in bril­liance, thus anchoring this year’s selection of films. 


There’s an indelible charm at the heart of the festival. There’s a truly absorbing effect to step­ping into a theater and seeing a set of films for which there exist no critical reviews, no word of mouth to go on, no spruced up trailers, and, ulti­mately, no expectations one way or the other. With each film comes a new surprise, a surprise that very often is quite refreshing, because there’s nothing like finding that hidden, unknown gem when you least expect it. 
And that is what the festival is at its inner core: a canvas on which a series of unknowns filmed with starry-eyed passion are projected, that more often than not turn out to be delight­fully surprising, immersive and entertaining and leave an impression even after the festival’s end. 
Although film lovers should consider this a must-see, it doesn’t take a passion for film to appreciate what the Notre Dame Film Festival has to offer. There’s nothing like watching a film that your friend had a hand in making or one about a subject related to our school that you know all too well. And furthermore, in the big-budget world that we so often equate the film industry with, it’s a breath of fresh air to be able to walk into a movie theater and watch a series of films made by aspiring filmmakers who share a passion for the medium and who create art for the sake of art. That, if nothing else, is why the Film Festival is such a rewarding experience, and why if only once in your four years here, everyone should attend the festival. 
Tickets are $3 for Notre Dame students, $5 for faculty and $6 for the general public, with the option of buying advance tickets online at per­formingarts.nd.edu or by calling the Performing Arts Center box office at 574-631-2800. From personal experience, it’s best to order your tick­ets in advance because the festival has been known to sell out. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 

The Observer 

Scene
Friday, January 22, 2010 page 13 

By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 

I was utterly unsettled, bewildered to the core, and downright livid the first time I saw “Mulholland Drive.” Sitting in front the television with perplexity writ­ten across my face, I gazed ahead stu­pidly. “What had just happened?” I sim­ply didn’t understand what was going on, and I wasn’t willing to see or so much as try to analyze what wasn’t spelled out for me. So I walked out on the film, turned my back on it, and if I recall correctly, called it “the worst movie I’ve ever seen.” 
So now, looking back, it seems rather ironic that in coming up with the idea to have The Observer run a series of arti­cles celebrating the 50 greatest films of the last decade, the only film I was cer­tain was on the list was in fact the very film that I had once called “the worst film ever.” In fact, it turns out that film is the best film of the decade. 
Sometimes I think back to the day I received “Mulholland Drive” in the mail as my first Netflix movie, how I tore open the red mailing envelope and read the synopsis thinking that I was in for a murderous thriller, and how I later watched in utter perplexity as any sem­blance of a linear, approachable plot dis­solved into the abyss. A great passion for film grew in me that day, and it has continued to grow in me ever more since, and as I look back on that film, the confusion that followed, and the understanding of the impossible -to ­understand that ensued, I can’t help but think of “Mulholland Drive” as the quin­tessential moment of my life as a lover of film. 
There was something inescapably mesmerizing about what I didn’t know and could not understand — some beau­ty in the uncertainty that would go on to pull and tear at me, beckoning me to solve the puzzle that was David Lynch’s “Mulholland Drive.” I reflected on the film for several days, until, like an epiphany the moment it’s realized, it all dawned on me, and suddenly, every­thing started to make sense. And as the uncertainty went, so came the brilliance. The meticulous brilliance found in every corner of Lynch’s work of absolute genius. I understood, slowly but surely, how deep and incredibly exceptional “Mulholland Drive” actually was, and as I watched the film over and over again, each time kindling a new curiosity in the film, I solved more of the puzzle, and, in retrospect, started my top 50 list of the best films of the decade. 

So in since watching way too many films to count and scouring the confines of everything “film” in search of great films, I can’t help but look back at “Mulholland Drive,” I have to say that this list — and my love of film — would-n’t have been possible if not for, “the worst film I’ve ever seen.” 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
10. Capturing the Friedmans (2003) 
The best documentary of the decade will have you frown-faced and drenched in hatred for the injustices of our flawed jus­tice system and the media hounds that feed into our lust for blood — even if it means lusting for the blood of the inno­cent. This harrowing tale of a family man with a secret, turned a family-ruining child rapist plays out like a tragedy of sweeping 
proportions and at its heart 
never truly answers 
the question of his 


innocence, which 
proves a brilliant 
decision. 

















JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 22, 2010 
NFL 

Phillips to stay in Dallas 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — Wade Phillips has a new two-year contract with the Dallas Cowboys, a deal indicating that owner Jerry Jones being is encouraged yet not satisfied. 
“This contract represents that,” Jones said Thursday after signing Phillips through the 2011 season. “Two years in the NFL is an eternity, but it has to be urgent and it has to be addressed as if there is no tomorrow. … It addresses the urgency of where we want to go from here.” 
The Cowboys have won two NFC East titles in three years under Phillips, and two weeks ago got their first playoff victory since 1996, which was the sea­son after their last Super Bowl. 
While Phillips is 34-17 in Dallas (playoffs included), there had been speculation about his status since Jones had failed to pick up the 2010 option that was part of the deal Phillips got when he replaced Bill Parcells after the 2006 season. Jones repeatedly indicated he wanted Phillips back, but didn’t make it official until now. 
“We want to build on the foundation we have put in place over the last three years,” Jones said. “I want to take advantage of the continuity.” 
Instead of picking up the 2010 option, though, Jones gave Phillips a new contract. One that doesn’t include an option past the next two seasons. 
“As long as the team knows I’m going to be here this year with this team, that’s all I need as a coach,” Phillips said. “It doesn’t matter if it’s one year or 10 years. With this team right now, I feel very comfortable. I think we can go further and we will go further.” 
In Phillips’ first season, Dallas was 13-3 and the No. 1 seed in the NFC before losing its open­ing playoff game. The Cowboys were 9-7 and missed the play­offs a year ago before an 11-5 record this season earned them the NFC East title. They beat Philadelphia in the NFC wild­card round before a 34-3 loss at Minnesota last weekend. 
Jones refused to give any specifics about the financial terms of the deal, but said it was “serious money” while making clear there would be a hefty bonus for reaching a Super Bowl. 
“Is he being overpaid? Not one penny,” Jones said. “Is he being underpaid? Probably, for what I think he is. The bottom line is we have something that works and certainly is struc­tured so that we have great incentive to do what he wants to lead us into doing any way, and that is ultimately get to that Super Bowl.” 


Only the Colts, Patriots and Chargers have won more games than Dallas during Phillips’ three seasons, but the Cowboys have gone a franchise-worst 14 seasons without winning or reaching a Super Bowl. Next season, the Super Bowl will be at Cowboys Stadium, and Jones has long wanted to become the first host team to play in the big game. 
“I feel like we’re going to be knocking on the door,” he said. 
Then a smiling Phillips jumped in with a line made famous by his dad, Bum Phillips, when he coached the Houston Oilers: “We’re going to kick that SOB in, too.” 
Phillips has been among the league’s lowest-paid head coaches at around $3 million per season. This past year, he also took on the role of defen­sive coordinator, and Jones called him “the MVP of the defense.” 
Jones said Phillips impressed him with how the coach never let the contract status affect him during the season. 
“One of the things that he demonstrated was just how well that ambiguity didn’t matter rel­ative to getting the job done or relative to aspiring to where we wanted to go,” Jones said. “Don’t think that players, and for that matter a lot more peo­ple than players, operate with some ambiguity with what’s going to happen next year and the next year and the next year. Hello life.” 
The defense led by Pro Bowl picks DeMarcus Ware and Jay Ratliff allowed the fewest points in the NFC this season and closed the regular season with the first back-to-back shutouts in the franchise’s 50-season his­tory. 
Phillips just finished his 33rd year in the NFL, 28 of them spent as either a defensive coor­dinator or head coach. He’s 62. 
If Phillips finishes this con­tract, he will match Jimmy Johnson as the longest-tenured coach during Jones’ ownership. Phillips already has the highest winning percentage among Cowboys coaches, topping Johnson, Tom Landry and Barry Switzer. However, he’s lumped in with Parcells, Chan Gailey and Dave Campo as Dallas coaches who haven’t won a Super Bowl. 
“We’ve produced well, but that isn’t good enough,” Phillips said. “I think we have a lot bet­ter opportunity to do that now.” 
This will become the longest head coaching stint for Phillips, who is 81-54 in the regular sea­son and was 0-4 in the playoffs before this season. Phillips was Buffalo’s coach for three sea­sons and spent two seasons in Denver, along with interim stints in New Orleans and Atlanta. 
Jones expects to bring back the entire coaching staff, includ­ing three assistants whose con­tracts expire after this season. Among them is Phillips’ son, Wes, who is in charge of offen­sive quality control. 
The one change was when defensive line coach Todd Grantham last week became the new defensive coordinator for the University of Georgia. The Cowboys quickly replaced him by rehiring Paul Pasqualoni, a Dallas assistant for three sea­sons before spending the last two seasons as Miami’s defen­sive coordinator. 
PGA 

Fred Couples debuts on Champions Tour 
Associated Press 

KAUPULEHU-KONA, Hawaii 
— Fred Couples and Tom Watson are featured on the larger-than-life Mitsubishi Electric Championship posters that greet travelers at tiny Kona International Airport. 
While Watson is identified as a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame, Couples has a more humble title underneath his smiling mug: “rookie.” 
There’s no mention of his 15 PGA Tour tiles, 1992 Masters win or 2009 U.S. President’s Cup team captaincy 
“It’s just a different deal,” Couples said. “Everyone seems like a winner out here. Even the guys that didn’t play on the regular (tour) come and do well.” 
Couples and U.S. Ryder Cup captain Corey Pavin will make their first official starts on the Champions Tour on Friday in the season-opening Mitsubishi. They each received sponsor exemptions, making them the first players to make their tour debuts at the winners-only event. 
“It’s nice to be a rookie, but it’s also nice to feel extremely comfortable out here as well,” Pavin said. “When you’re a rookie on the PGA Tour, your eyes (are) wide, and trying to figure out what to do. Out here, I have a pretty good idea what I have to do. The guys have been incredible in welcoming me out here.” 
Both players turned 50 late last year, have 15 PGA Tour wins and are fitting right in. They were loose and smiling as they chatted with players they haven’t seen in years—or ever. 
“I’ll soon get to know a few of those guys, although right now I don’t have any idea who they are,” Couples said. 
But the players know who he is. 
“We need Freddie to come out and play, and Corey, and Paul Azinger, those kind of guys,” said 2006 champion Loren Roberts, who is coming off his second Charles Schwab Cup title in three years. “We need guys that are major champions to come out here and play on this tour.” 
Couples made his senior debut last weekend, teaming with Nick Price to finish third in the Champions Skins Game at Kaanapali. 
A total of 36 players are entered at Hualalai, one of the easiest courses on the tour that features generous fairways and immaculate greens. It is the first of 26 events on the 2010 schedule, which is one more than last year. 
“On this golf course right here, it’s about the putter,” Roberts said. “Unless it’s just a hurricane around here, you’re going to hit a lot of greens, you’re going to hit a lot of birdie putts.” 
Roberts won in 2006 by shooting a final-round 61. 
Last year, Berhard Langer held off Andy Bean by a stroke, winning the Mitsubishi for the first of his tour-high four 2009 victories. This sea­son, Langer is going for an unprecedented third straight player of the year honor. 
Pavin is hoping for some similar success. The 1995 
U.S. Open champion plans to play six events on the PGA Tour and 18 on the 50-and­over circuit. 
“I certainly want to get in a position where I can win some tournaments and I think I have a better chance of that out here than on the regular tour,” said Pavin, coming off a tie for 52nd at the Sony Open. 
He said there’s a noticeable difference on the two tours. 
“How should I say this? The guys (here) understand the big picture really well,” Pavin said. “They understand the sponsorships and what makes this whole tour tick. It’s really nice to have everybody under­stand that and work together as a team. But obviously when we go out, we’re com­peting against each other and it’s pretty serious competition and tough competition.” 
Couples, meanwhile, aims to play 12 events on the PGA Tour and 10 senior events. Next year, he plans to concen­trate on the Champions Tour. 
“People want to know a goal. It’s not winning, it’s really to see if I can play that many tournaments,” said Couples, long troubled by back problems. 
At the driving range, Couples seemed just as deter­mined to master a hang-loose “shaka” sign and some Hawaiian words than he was his booming drive. 
He got a couple tips from Curtis Strange, who taught Couples to say, “alooooooha.” 
That’s where all the tips started and ended. 
“Freddie doesn’t need any tips,” Roberts said. “C’mon now. These guys that hit it 320, I’m not going to give them any tips.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
gradrentals.viewwork.com If you or someone you care about What’s up, Papa James? 
——————————————— has been sexually assaulted, we ———————————————­WANTED FOR RENT Luxury 2 Bed 2 Full Bath PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit “Also.” 
Apartments Notre Dame's website: ———————————————­Business Major wanted for Campus Off-Campus housing 2010-2011, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do http.csap.nd.edu Michael, 5K means 5 kilometers, Manager at ND. Irish Crossings, Dublin Village For IMMEDIATE Move In! not go it alone. Notre Dame has ———————————————-not 5,000 miles! You will design a marketing plan, 2,3,4 bedrooms still available. many resources in place to assist “I can’t even yell at you anymore.” ———————————————­hire workers, and implement the Full Size Washer and Dryer, you. If you or someone you love ———————————————-So when you say psychosomatic, plan. Furnished and UnFurnished. Optional Fireplace, Dishwasher, needs confidential support or assis-‘Fact: Bears beat Battlestar you mean like he could start a fire 
Hurry only a few left. Walk In Closets, Awesome tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Galactica.” with his thoughts? Great resume builder opportunity. Floorplan For Roomates! 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. ———————————————-———————————————­Salary +commission. Best living, safety, Value. 63463 “Lettuce isn’t crunchy!” 
Call Today For Discounted ND For more information, visit ND's ———————————————-———————————————­Contact: Bettyjo@BoxMyDorm.com CES Property Management, 574-Student Pricing! web site: Hey Sush, when is date night? On second thought, let's not go to 317-679-6082 968-011 574-256-1350. http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu Thanks dude. Camelot. It is a silly place. ——————————————— ———————————————-———————————————-———————————————-———————————————-———————————————­
Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, January 22, 2010 
page 15 

CSCAA Men’s Swimming and Diving Top 25 
team previous 
1 Texas 1 2 Stanford 2 3 Arizona 4 4 California 3 5 Auburn 5 6 Florida 4 7 Michigan 7 8 Virginia 9 9 Ohio State 12 10 Minnesota 8 11 Tennessee 11 12 Georgia 10 13 USC 13 14 North Carolina 14 15 Florida State 15 16 Louisville 16 17 LSU 18 18 Purdue 19 19 Texas A&M 22 20 Alabama 21 21 Kentucky 16 22 UNLV 18 23 SMU 21 24 Virginia Tech 24 25 Indiana 24 
CSCAA Women’s Swimming Rankings 
team previous 
1 Georgia 1 2 Arizona 2 3 Texas 4 4 Stanford 3 5 California 6 6 Texas A&M 6 7 Florida 7 8 Auburn 8 9 USC 9 10 Minnesota 10 11 Virginia 11 12 Tennessee 13 13 Louisville 14 14 Indiana 12 15 North Carolina 15 16 Michigan 16 17 Wisconsin 17 18 SMU 19 19 Arkansas 18 20 Virginia Tech 20 21 Missouri 24 22 Purdue 22 23 Northwestern 23 24 LSU 21 25 Florida State 25 


around the dial 
NBA 
Lakers at Knicks 8 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Bulls at Suns 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Eagles’ Herzlich returns to practice 
Associated Press 

BOSTON—Mark Herzlich roamed the dome-covered football field at Boston College’s Alumni Stadium, sharing with his teammates the techniques and wisdom that had him destined for NFL stardom before a cancer diagnosis delayed—but did not derail—his promising career. 
With his hair and eye­brows growing out and even a short beard to serve as an exclamation point on his recovery, Herzlich returned to practice on Thursday for the first time since he was diagnosed with a rare form of cancer called Ewing’s Sarcoma. 
“I can’t believe it’s been a whole year playing without him,” linebacker Mike Morrissey said after the hourlong workout without coaches, pads or contact. 
Herzlich, who finished radiation in August and chemotherapy in November, said his energy has returned enough to enable him to join his teammates in the weight room on Wednesday and a day later in the winterized bubble that covers the field in the offseason. In shorts and a cut-off workout shirt, Herzlich took his turn rotat­ing into seven-on-seven drills before addressing the group as a whole before practice broke up. 
“I’m very excited, even to do just a little stuff today,” he said. “I want to jump in, but I also want to be smart and not take any risks that can get me hurt.” 

The risk of injury, Herzlich noted, is not from the cancer but from the lack of condi­tioning after a year in which he lost his hair and the finely honed edge he needed to bang around on a football field a dozen Saturdays each fall. He was pronounced can­cer-free in October, and doc­tors told him there are no other lingering effects of the cancer or its treatment; he is checked every three months, just to make sure. 
“We’re all overwhelmed by his story,” offensive lineman Anthony Castonzo said. “He’s done something only a few people around the world can say they’ve done, beat can­cer. And he’s picked up right where he left off.” 
Herzlich was named the Atlantic Coast Conference defensive player of the year in 2008, picking off six pass-es—the most in the nation for a linebacker—and lead­ing the Eagles with 81 tack­les. But in May he announced that he would miss 2009 after being diag­nosed with Ewing’s Sarcoma, a rare form of cancer often found in bone or soft tissue. 
The diagnosis sent him home to bed, dejected. 
But not for long. 
“After about two hours of sulking, I realized this has got to be something I over­come,” Herzlich said. “Once I made that decision, I was ready.” 
IN BRIEF 

Blanton re-signs for $24 million over three seasons 
PHILADELPHIA — Joe Blanton got his reward for consistency and durability. 
Blanton and the Philadelphia Phillies agreed to a $24 million, three-year con­tract that avoided a salary arbitration hearing next month. The 29-year-old right-hander was 12-8 with a 4.05 ERA last year. 
“They came to me with the prospect of going long term, and I couldn’t have been more thrilled,” Blanton said at a news conference Thursday. “I couldn’t be happier to have this opportunity to stay in the Phillies’ organization. I’ve enjoyed my time here and I feel like the organization just keeps getting better and better every year.” 
After making $5,475,000 last year, Blanton asked for $10.25 million in arbitration and was offered $7.5 mil­lion. He already had agreed to a new deal before those numbers were sub­mitted. 
King Felix agrees to deal to remain in Seattle 
SEATTLE — Felix Hernandez and the Seattle Mariners have completed a $78 million, five-year deal that averts an arbitration hearing and keeps the young ace under contract through 2014. 
General manager Jack Zduriencik called Thursday a great day for Seattle and for the pitcher, his wife and their two young children. 
“This one was immense, ” Zduriencik said, seated next to a constantly grinning Hernandez. “It’s rare when you can secure a guy like this. And it’s rare to have a guy with this kind of ability. “There’s no better move than to secure a Felix Hernandez.” 
Hernandez, who could have become a free agent after the 2011 season, finalized his first big con­tract after taking a physical that was required to finish the deal. 

Celtics’ Davis fined for incident with fan 
NEW YORK — Boston Celtics forward Glen “Big Baby” Davis has been fined $25,000 for directing inappropriate language at a fan. 
NBA executive vice president of 
operations Stu Jackson announced the fine Thursday. 
Davis was fined for language he used when addressing a fan dur­ing the second quarter of Boston’s 92-86 loss to the Detroit Pistons at the Palace of Auburn Hills on Wednesday. 
It was the second fine Jackson has handed down to a Celtics player is as many days. Boston forward Rasheed Wallace was fined $35,000 on Wednesday for publicly criticizing officials. 
Davis is averaging 6.2 points per game and 4.3 rebounds per contest in 12 games this season. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 22, 2010 
NBA 

Williams to miss one month 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Cavaliers starting point guard Mo Williams will miss at least one month with a sprained left shoulder, a major blow to the Eastern Conference’s top team. 
An MRI revealed the sprain and the Cavs said that Williams, who has played in 124 of a pos­sible 125 games since joining Cleveland before last season, is projected to be out for the “next four to six weeks” — a timetable that could keep him out until the first week in March. 
Williams is the club’s second-leading scorer and top playmak­er other than LeBron James. His loss figures to test the Cavs like nothing else so far this season. 
“It’s huge,” James said before Thursday’s showdown with the Los Angeles Lakers. “The last two years a lot of the reason for the success we’ve had as a team is because Mo has been our point guard. He has been the guy that has kept us under wraps and played in almost every single game. When you lose an All-Star point guard it hurts. It hurts a lot. 
“Guys got to step up. Guys have no choice but to step up.” 
Williams injured his shoulder in Tuesday night’s win over Toronto when he reached for a steal in the third quarter and banged into a few Raptors play­ers. He was taken to the locker room for an examination and treatment before returning to the floor and making a key 3­pointer in the fourth quarter. 
Cleveland coach Mike Brown said it is his understanding that rest should take care of Williams’ injury. It’s not likely he will need surgery. 
On Tuesday, the Cavs initially 
NBA 


said Williams had sustained a strain, but changed the diagno­sis to a sprain, which indicates there is a tear in the shoulder. 
Williams, who was an All-Star last season — his first with Cleveland — scored a team-high 28 points in the Cavaliers’ Christmas Day win over the Lakers. 
Delonte West, who is more of a shooting guard, will start in place of Williams and Daniel Gibson will return to the rota­tion after having his minutes reduced in recent weeks. West will be making his first start this season. 

Iverson, Duncan lead All-Star team starters 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A mostly absent Allen Iverson was voted to start in the NBA All-Star game on Thursday, while Steve Nash and Tim Duncan made late moves to claim starting spots. 
Nash passed the inactive Tracy McGrady as the second guard for the Western Conference, while Duncan disappointed Dallas fans hop­ing to see Dirk Nowitzki(notes) start by rally­ing past the Mavericks for­ward. 
LeBron James was the lead­ing vote-getter for the Feb. 14 game at Cowboys Stadium, becoming the first player to earn at least 2.5 million votes three times. He will make his sixth All-Star appearance, all as a starter. 
“The fans still love and see what I do every night and they appreciate it, and I appreciate them for electing me as an All-Star starter,” James said. “It’s still special.” 
Joining James and Iverson as Eastern Conference starters were Miami guard Dwyane Wade, Orlando center Dwight Howard and Boston forward Kevin Garnett. 
Los Angeles Lakers guard Kobe Bryant was picked in the West along with Phoenix center Amare Stoudemire and Denver forward Carmelo Anthony. 
Starters were decided by fan balloting at NBA arenas and electronically. The reserves will be chosen by votes by the head coaches in each conference and will be announced next Thursday. 
The fans still love Iverson, even though he’s played only 19 games during the worst season of his career. He appeared on the West ballot since he began the season in Memphis, but they parted ways after only three games. 
Iverson’s votes counted in the East since he rejoined the Philadelphia 76ers, his long­time team. He is averaging only 14.8 points with the 76ers, but will get a shot at earning a third All-Star game MVP award if he chooses to play. 
Bothered by a sore knee, Iverson said he would consid­er his health before deciding whether to play in his 10th All-Star game. He’s been an All-Star for 11 straight sea­sons, but missed the 2007 game because of injury. 
NASCAR 

Bump-drafting back in ‘10, drivers happy 
Associated Press 

CONCORD, N.C. — Have at it, boys. 
NASCAR is relaxing some of its rules this season, and encouraging drivers to show more aggression and emo­tion, in large part to answer a growing fan sentiment that the sport had gone stale. 
“There’s an age old saying that NASCAR, ‘If you ain’t rubbing, you ain’t racing,”’ NASCAR president Mike Helton said Thursday. “I think that’s what the NASCAR fan, the NASCAR stakeholders all bought into, and all expect.” 
The first change will be evident when the season 
opens 
next month at Daytona International Speedway, where restric­tions on bump-drafting will be lifted and horsepower will be increased by the use 

of 
the largest restrictor plate since 1989. 


NASCAR had been slowly tightening its tolerance on bumping at Daytona and Talladega — the two biggest and fastest tracks in the series, where the horsepow­er-sapping restrictor plates are used to control speeds 
— and it graduated into an 
outright ban issued the morning of the November race at Talladega. The edict sucked the drama out of what’s typically one of the most exciting races of the year, and was the final straw for many race fans who had grown tired of watered-down racing. 
Even some drivers publicly complained, criticism that is usually frowned upon in NASCAR. 
“Let us RACE, ” Denny Hamlin tweeted after the Talladega drivers meeting, later adding, “We signed up to drive our cars. Not be told how to.” 
He’s getting his wish. 
“We will put it back in the hands of drivers, and we will say ‘Boys, have at it and have a good time,” ’ vice president of competition Robin Pemberton said Thursday. 
The yellow out-of-bounds line that circles the bottom 
of those two tracks will remain, and Pemberton said the majority of drivers did not want that removed. 
Another change coming this year will be an eventual switch from the rear wing to a spoiler on the back of the car, a design change that should both positively affect downforce and the aesthetic look that race fans prefer. 
Also on tap is an organiza­tional restructuring. The most prominent shuffle is the promotion of longtime Sprint Cup Series director John Darby into an over­sight position, and NASCAR is actively looking for his replacement in a role that is effectively the top cop of the garage. 
Darby’s successor could be in for a busy year, particu­larly if drivers answer NASCAR chairman Brian France’s call “to mix it up a little bit differently” going forward. 
“It’s tough,” Brown said. “But we feel like we have a deep team. It’s unfortunate Mo got hurt because he was playing really well for us and was in a rhythm. We have to see if we can hold the fort down until he’s able to come back.” 
Losing Williams will hurt the Cavs in a variety of ways. He is one of the NBA’s best three-throw (90 percent) and 3-point shooters (43 percent). 
Cleveland (32-11) entered Thursday’s game against the Lakers with a 3 1/2 -game lead over Boston for the East’s best record. 


Friday, January 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
TENNIS 

Jelena Jankovic upset at Grand Slam again 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Dinara Safina advanced to the fourth round of the Australian Open on Friday, winning her first match on the major’s mar­quee court since her lopsided loss to Serena Williams in last year’s final. 
Jelena Jankovic just keeps running into trouble at the Grand Slams. 
Second-seeded Safina beat Britain’s Elena Baltacha 6-1, 6­2 in her return to Rod Laver Arena and eighth-seeded Jankovic was upset by No. 31 Alona Bondarenko, falling 6-2, 6-3 for her first loss in 10 meet­ings with the Ukraine player. 
Both Safina and Jankovic have held the No. 1 ranking, but neither has won a Grand Slam singles title. Only Safina, who has been a runner-up three times, can make that breakthrough here. 
“I’m happy to be back here in Rod Laver, I didn’t have too many good memories from last year so I turned it around and tried to forget the bad memo­ries,” said Safina, the younger sister of 2005 Australian Open champion Marat Safin. 
“I had some unbelievable matches here in Rod Laver: dramas, fighting, running,” she recalled of the happier times in her run to the 2009 final. 
Jankovic made 40 unforced errors against 13 winners. She hasn’t gone beyond the fourth round at any of the majors since she lost the 2008 U.S. Open final -her only champi­onship match at a major. She lost the No. 1 ranking after her fourth-round exit here last year. 
Two other former No. 1­ranked players, both from Belgium and both on the come­back from retirement, were in action later Friday. Justine Henin played Alisa Kleybonova immediately after Jankovic on Hisense Arena and U.S. Open champion Kim Clijsters had a night match. 


Men’s defending champion Rafael Nadal was playing Philipp Kohlschreiber in a night match at Rod Laver. 
Roger Federer, the king of tennis, met Britain’s Prince William on the same court the previous evening. After Federer dispatched Victor Hanescu 6-2, 6-3, 6-2 in 99 minutes Thursday, on-court interviewer Jim Courier invited the top-ranked Swiss star to acknowl­edge the rare visit to Melbourne by a high-ranking British royal. 
“Your Royal Highness, wel­come to the world of tennis,” Federer said. “Thanks for com­ing.” 
Prince William duly blushed and waved, and the pair shook hands. Federer is no stranger to royalty, having collected the Wimbledon trophy six times on London’s grass courts among his record 15 Grand Slam titles. But this was his first meeting with William, second in line to the British throne. 
“Chitchat? no,” Federer said. “English breakfast tea? No, not yet.” 
“Of course, where he comes from, you know, he knows ten­nis. And Wimbledon’s big,” Federer added. “So for me it was very a big honor that he came to watch me. He said he was happy that I played a little bit longer because the match could have ended even shorter.” 
Prince William also met women’s champion Serena Williams, who defeated Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic 6-2, 6-1 to set up a third-round match against Spain’s Carla Suarez Navarro. Navarro oust­ed Venus Williams in the sec­ond round last year. 
Venus has already improved on that, defeating Sybille Bammer 6-2, 7-5. 
“I feel if I play well, I can beat anybody,” said Serena, who is planning some research on Suarez Navarro. “I know she took out Venus around this time last year, if I’m not mistaken. 
“I would hate to see it become a habit for her, taking out a sis­ter this time every year. So I have to be ready. Yeah, defi­nitely will talk to (Venus) and see what goes next.” 
U.S. Open finalist Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark was among the other women advancing. She’ll meet No. 29 Shahar Peer of Israel in the next round. 
Ana Ivanovic, the 2008 Australian Open finalist and French Open champion, lost to Argentina’s Gisela Dulko. 
Most of the leading men in the top half the draw pro­gressed in straight sets. 
Novak Djokovic, the 2008 champion, had a slow start in his 3-6, 6-1, 6-1, 6-3 win over Marco Chiudinelli of Switzerland. No. 9 Fernando Verdasco, a semifinalist last year, advanced 6-1, 6-2, 6-2 over Ivan Sergeyev of Ukraine, and 2008 finalist Jo-Wilfried Tsonga had a 6-4, 6-3, 6-3 win over American Taylor Dent. 
Sixth-seeded Nikolay Davydenko had a 6-3, 6-3, 6-0 win over Ukraine qualifier Illya Marchenko, extending his win­ning streak to 11, including vic­tories over Federer and Nadal in the 2009 World Tour Final in London and in Doha this month. 
NFL 

Sanchez gaining attention 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Brett Favre, Peyton Manning, Drew Brees — and Mark Sanchez? Yep, the rookie from Southern Cal is keeping some heady com­pany. He’s gotten a whole lot further than some of the best quarterbacks in NFL history did in their first seasons, too. 
The fifth overall pick in last year’s draft is part of the NFL’s final four, playing for a spot in the Super Bowl just like the game’s career passing leader, the league’s only four-time MVP, and the sport’s most accu­rate passer. 
Sure could be overwhelming. 
“This feels right,” Sanchez said confidently. “It feels good. It feels the way you dream it would feel just growing up. You get to go play at Indy again for an AFC championship your rookie year, that’s unbeliev­able.” 
Maybe not. A rookie quarter­back has gotten to the AFC title game in three of the last six years. The other two, Pittsburgh’s Ben Roethlisberger and Baltimore’s Joe Flacco, fell short of the Super Bowl. 
Now Sanchez gets his chance. 
“I think it’s interesting that, you know, a rookie quarterback last year, Joe Flacco, AFC championship game,” said New Orleans’ Brees, who chuckles and changes the subject when asked about his first pro sea­son. “A rookie quarterback this year, Mark Sanchez, AFC cham­pionship. I guess Roethlisberger, when he was a rookie, they went to an AFC championship. So there have been a bunch of rookie quarter­backs here over the last five or six years.” 

The theory that QBs fresh out of college should sit and watch died a while ago. Maybe it began to disappear with Manning, who never has missed a start since being the top selection in 1998. 
Favre barely saw the field with Atlanta in 1991, throwing five passes (two were intercept­ed) before being traded to Green Bay. Brees came along 10 years later and had only one start for San Diego as a rookie, perhaps because the Chargers had been so burned by using Manning contemporary Ryan Leaf early on they were wary of going with a youngster again. 
Now, it’s no big deal for the new kid in town to line up behind center from the outset. Or, in the last half-dozen sea­sons, to play deep into January. 
“Every guy wants to be a part of the Super Bowl,” said the 40­year-old Favre, who got there in his sixth and seventh season, going 1-1, but has not returned. “As you get older, you appreci­ate it more. Especially since you’ve been there, you know how difficult it is to get back. I don’t care how good you are. I keep using Pittsburgh as an example, and the Giants a cou­ple of years ago. You never know. Seize the moment.” 
The Jets have done a lot of seizing recently, winning seven of eight, including four in a row, two in the playoffs on the road 
— about as difficult a challenge as a rookie quarterback could face. Sanchez met the hurdles thanks as much to the Jets’ strengths around him as to what he has achieved with his arm and legs. 
Sanchez is 24 for 38 for 282 yards in wins at Cincinnati and San Diego. Those would be one-game numbers for Favre, Manning or Brees. 
But New York’s top-ranked running game and No. 1-rated defense have made Sanchez’s inexperience almost a nonfac­tor. That’s nearly enough to make a veteran quarterback jealous. 
“Obviously he’s got a great team around him: great run game, great defense,” Brees said. “He makes plays when he needs to, manages the game well. His offensive coordinator is Brian Schottenheimer, who was my quarterback coach in San Diego. Brian’s done a great job helping him prepare and learn the game and he’s gotten a little faster dose of the learn­ing curve maybe than most.” 
Sanchez agrees, recognizing that the conservative approach 
— 
if letting a rookie be your quarterback from the get-go can be considered conservative 

— 
not only has worked for the team, but has been a boon for him. 


“It’s worked to this point, and hopefully in the future I’ll be able to take more chances and really get a feel for things,” he said. “Right now, it’s better to be smart than good. 
“I do feel more comfortable as the days go on and as I get experience each game. There is no substitute for that experi­ence. I think the biggest thing that has made the difference in these last few games is know­ing what it takes to win and also knowing what gets you beat.” 
NHL 

Staal’s hat trick leads Thrashers 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — It didn’t take Eric Staal long to show how well he can lead the Carolina Hurricanes. 
Staal scored a season-high three goals in his first game since becoming Carolina’s cap­tain and the Hurricanes beat the Atlanta Thrashers 5-2 on Thursday night their fifth win in 24 road games. 

Staal and the Hurricanes grabbed the momentum early. The 25-year-old All-Star center scored on a pass from Jussi Jokinen to open the scoring 
3:31 into the game. The Hurricanes stretched the 
lead to 4-0 with power-play goals by Sergei S a m s o n o v, Jokinen and 
for  a  rare  road  “It was kind of neat  Staal.  
victory. “It was kind of neat to start off this way,” Staal  to start off this way [as captain].”  Jokinen was awarded his goal after an o f f i c i a l s ’  
said.  Eric Staal  review showed  
The Hurricanes were last in the  Thrashers captain  the crossed  puck the  
NHL  with  35  line before it  
points  and  had  was kicked out  

lost three straight when Staal of the net by Ron Hainsey. took over as captain The goals by Jokinen and Wednesday for Rod Staal in the first 3 minutes of Brind’Amour. the second period left the 
“It’s a challenge,” said Staal Hurricanes 3 for 3 on the of his new role. “We’ve had power play. great leadership here for a Staal’s third goal came with long time. I’m excited for the 44 seconds remaining in the opportunity to learn from a third period after the great captain who won us a Thrashers pulled goalie Ondrej Stanley Cup.” Pavelec, who stopped 16 shots. 
Brind’Amour led the team to “Our goaltender was good, its only Stanley Cup in 2006. our special teams were real 
Cam Ward stopped 32 shots good and that’s the difference to tie Arturs Irbe’s franchise in the game,” Carolina coach record with 130 career wins. Paul Maurice said. “Good lead­
“I hope to keep adding onto ership and good goaltending this record for many years to tonight.” come,” Ward said. Staal will represent Canada 
The Hurricanes took only in the Olympics. General man­ager Jim Rutherford said Wednesday that Staal “is the player around whom the team will be structured.” 
Added Ward after the game: “It feels good. Staal was a good choice.” 
The 39-year-old Brind’Amour, who had been the captain since 2005, was demoted to alternate captain. 
Rich Peverley scored an unassisted goal for Atlanta 
13:30 into the second period. Colby Armstrong added a tip-in with 8:12 remaining in the third period. 
The Thrashers were stopped in each of their four chances with a man advantage in the third period, leaving them 0 for 6 for the game. Carolina scored three goals on four power plays. 
“On special teams, I don’t want to use the word horrific, but that’s the first thing that comes to my mind,” Thrashers coach John Anderson said. “Our power play isn’t generat­ing a lot.” 
Ilya Kovalchuk, who was stopped on six shots, said the Thrashers “had a lot of chances tonight, but couldn’t score. … We have to work harder on the power play and get the puck to the net.” 
Anderson said he may have to “dumb it down a bit” on power plays to “put some grit in front of the net and pound away.” 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 22, 2010 
MLB 

Miguel Cabrera kicks alcoholism 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Instead of honing his swing this offseason, Miguel Cabrera focused on getting sober. 
“My drinking was a problem, and I feel good without it. I feel like a new man,” he said Thursday. 
The Detroit Tigers slugger spent three months in an outpatient treatment program for alcoholism following a much-publicized drinking binge during the final weekend of last season, a pro­gram that general manager Dave Dombrowski said will continue into spring training and the upcoming season. 
“I’ve worked very hard with my doctors and my family this winter, and I’m going to keep working,” Cabrera said as the Tigers started their Winter Caravan through Michigan. 
Cabrera said he has turned his life around. He said he hasn’t had a drink since he was taken into custody by police after a domestic-abuse complaint was filed by his wife in the early morning of Oct. 3 
— hours before a crucial game against the Chicago White Sox. 
The All-Star first baseman with a $152.3 million contract got drunk enough between Friday night’s game and Saturday morn­ing to have what police said was a 
0.26 blood-alcohol reading — three times above Michigan’s legal limit for driving — and a bruised and cut left cheek. 
Cabrera said he feels as though he let down his teammates that weekend and he intends to make up for it this season. He acknowl­edged there have been games in the past when his performance was affected by booze. 
“I never played drunk, but there were times where I was very tired or my body just felt lazy,” said Cabrera, who went to a treatment program in Miami this offseason. “I don’t feel that way anymore.” 
Last year, the Tigers were trying to hold off Minnesota and clinch the AL Central title when Cabrera created a stir on the final week­end of the season. 
Police said he arrived at his sub­urban Detroit home at 5 a.m. on Saturday and got into a fight with his wife, who called 911. Cabrera was taken to a police station, where Dombrowski picked him up. 
The GM later acknowledged being angry and sad to get a call at 7:30 a.m. to come get Cabrera. 
The slugger went 0 for 4 and stranded six runners in a 5-1 loss to Chicago on Saturday night, a game that started about 12 hours after Cabrera left the police sta­tion. 
“That night, I was trying to hit a five-run homer every time I came up, because I knew I had made a horrible mistake and I wanted to fix it,” Cabrera said. “I was just putting too much pressure on myself.” 
On Friday night, he had gone 0 for 4 and left four runners on base in an 8-0 defeat against the White Sox. He went hitless in three at-bats Sunday, a 5-3 Tigers win that left them tied with the Twins for first place. 
Two days later, Minnesota won a one-game tiebreaker at home for the division crown, beating Detroit 6-5 in 12 innings. Cabrera hit a two-run homer and doubled in that game to help the Tigers open a 3-0 lead, but it wasn’t enough. 


NCAA BASKETBALL 

No. 15 Gonzaga holds off Pepperdine rally 
Associated Press 
SPOKANE, Wash. — For one night at least, the Gonzaga-Pepperdine rivalry was back in the West Coast Conference. 
The two teams had some epic tussles for the WCC title in the late 1990s and early this centu­ry, before the Gonzaga started to run away with every game. 
But the No. 15 Bulldogs need­ed a career-high 32 points from Matt Bouldin to hold off Pepperdine 91-84 Thursday night and take sole possession of first place in the league. 
Elias Harris added 20 points and 13 rebounds, and Steven Gray had 20 points, as Gonzaga (15-3, 4-0 WCC) won its sev­enth straight game. They beat Pepperdine for the 17th straight time since 2002. 
Keion Bell, who had just three points in the first half, led Pepperdine (7-13, 3-1) with a career-high 37 points, keeping the game close. Lorne Jackson added 17 points and the Waves scored 55 points in the second half. 
“We survived that one,” said Bouldin, who made 10 of 16 shots. “But to give up 30-some­thing points to one player in the second half is unacceptable.” 
Pepperdine opened the WCC season with three wins, and these were the last two unbeat­en teams in league play. 
“I’m not big on moral victo­ries,” Pepperdine coach Tom Ausbury said. “It’s a loss.” 
Bell, a sophomore guard, seems to play his best games against top opponents, Ausbury said. 
“He’s not afraid of anybody,” Ausbury said. “He kind of took over the game in the second half.” 
Bell made 14 of 21 shots in the game — 13 of 17 in the sec­ond half. 
Pepperdine made only two field goals in the first 7:30 and trailed 17-6. The Waves started finding the basket, but still trailed 41-29 at halftime after shooting just 37 percent. 
Bell scored 14 of Pepperdine’s first 16 points of the second half to cut Gonzaga’s lead to 51-45. But Bouldin, Gray and Harris quickly drove Gonzaga to a 64-49 lead with 12 minutes left. 
The Waves clawed back and Bell hit a basket and two free throws to cut Gonzaga’s lead to 75-68 with 4:50 left. 
NBA 

LeBron’s 37 lead Cavs past Lakers 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — The Cavaliers haven’t lost their hol­iday spirit. 
Cleveland showed its Christmas Day win over the Los Angeles Lakers was no gift as LeBron James scored 37 points, including 12 straight down the stretch, and the Cavs, playing their first game without injured Mo Williams, beat Kobe Bryant and the NBA champions 93-87 on Thursday night. 
J.J. Hickson grabbed a career-high 14 rebounds and Anderson Varejao made three free throws in the final 20 sec­onds as Cleveland swept the season series between the league’s top two teams. That could give the Cavs home-court advantage if they meet the Lakers in June’s NBA finals. 
A lot can happen between now and then, but the win gave Cleveland confidence it might be able to survive despite losing Williams, their All-Star point guard who will miss at least one month with a shoulder sprain. Williams scored a team-high 28 in Cleveland’s Dec. 25 win at Staples Center. 
Bryant finished with 31 points but was only 4-of-15 in the second half as the Lakers lost the opener of an eight-game road trip. Pau Gasol scored 13 for Los Angeles. 
Bryant surpassed 25,000 career points in the first half, but he was unable to match James in the fourth quarter as both teams turned to their superstars. 
With the score tied 80-all, James hit a 3-pointer from the left side, and after a miss by Bryant, the reigning MVP dropped another jumper to put Cleveland ahead by five. James then hit another shot to make it 87-80 with 2:48 left and the Cavs looked to be in control. 

But Ron Artest hit a big 3 for the Lakers and Bryant made two free throws and a quick jumper to tie it 87-87 with 1:32 remaining. 
James then blasted down the left side for a layup with 40.5 seconds to go, prompting chants of “M-V-P” from the raucous Quicken Loans crowd. After Gasol missed two free throws that would have tied it, the Cavs called a timeout and before play resumed, James was caught by cameras rap­ping to Eminem’s song “Forever” before the ball was inbounded. 
James then split a pair of free throws, but Varejao grabbed the rebound on the miss and was fouled by Artest. Varejao, a 66 percent shooter from the line, made both attempts for a 92-87 Cavs lead with 20.7 seconds left. Bryant misfired on an off-balance 3­point attempt and James saved the long rebound, flying into Cleveland’s bench to make the save. 
As Varejao went to the line again with 4.1 seconds left, James popped his maroon Cavs jersey, making sure everyone knew who came out on top. 


Friday, January 22, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 22, 2009 
Bayliss 
continued from page 24 
handled them last year at their place. They usually are quite good in doubles, so it will be important for us to meet that challenge early.” 
The Irish are coming off of losing their number one sin­gles players and have some questions about who will fill the void for them this season. Someone will need to step up quickly as Virginia presents top-level competition. 

“[Virginia’s] top player, Sanam Singh, reached the semi-finals of an ATP event just a few weeks ago in Chennai, India, that included Robin Soderling and Marin Cilic,” Bayliss said. “Both of those guys are currently ranked in the world’s top ten and are now in the Australian Open. That gives you an idea of Virginia’s level.” 
Considering the difficulty of the opening weekend for the Irish, Bayliss feels that one of the most difficult challenges facing the team this year will be the difficulty of their schedule. 
“I feel we are good enough to take on this schedule, but we need to be sufficiently resilient to handle some loss­es and rebound well to take advantage of the large num­ber of opportunities that we will have,” Bayliss said. 
The Irish will need to be on top of their game this week­end as they open dual match play on Friday with first serve set for 5 p.m. against William & Mary. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Slow start does in Belles 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
It’s typically hard to catch up when you fall behind, but Saint Mary’s managed to put up a valiant fight after a sluggish start against con­ference foe Albion Thursday night. 
In the end, the slow start was too much for the Belles to overcome, and they fell 61-56. 
It was the slow start that hurt the Belles (10-6, 5-3 MIAA) as they fell behind early on in the game. 
Unlike the Belles, Albion (7-9, 3-5 MIAA) came out hot in the first half, building a 14 -point cushion leading into halftime. 

However, Saint Mary’s was not going to be down for the count. 
In the second half, the Belles began to find the bas­ket. They came all the way back, erasing the deficit. 
Offense was an issue in the first half, resulting in a 25.9 percent shooting percentage however, during the second half, Saint Mary’s shot 37.1 percent to close out the game. This hot shooting allowed the Belles to slowly erase the lead that they were chasing and even man­aged to tie the game at 51­
51. That was as close as the Belles could get to the Britons as they held on to a lead that nearly slipped from them. 
Saint Mary’s outscored the Britons 37-28 in the second half. 

Sophomore Kelley Murphy and senior Anna Kammrath scored in double figures for the Belles. Murphy led Saint Mary’s with 17 points and Kammrath added 14 in the game. 
This did not prove to be enough to keep pace with the Britons who came ready to play. 
Junior Melissa Shaw led all scorers for the night with 19 points. She also was a per­fect 8-8 from the free throw line. 
Saint Mary’s next plays on Saturday against conference rival Trine at 1 p.m. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
Thang 
continued from page 24 

Nebraska-Omaha in a home series. 
Thang recognized that the physical play of Lake Superior will force the Irish to play smart and make the most of opportunities. 
“You can’t be shooting from all over the place,” Thang said. “Once you start letting them block shots, you’ll give up a lot of odd-man rushes. You’ve got to be moving with the puck and pulling back on those quick shots at the net where you’ve got a seeing-eye chance, otherwise we’ll be backchecking all night.” 
Notre Dame will play at 7:05 
p.m. Friday and Saturday at Lake Superior’s Taffy Abel Arena in Sault Ste. Marie. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 



Friday, January 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles look for frst home meet victory 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s looks to come out of its first home meet of 2010 with its first win of the New Year. The Belles suf­fered two losses last week­end to Hope and Olivet in Michigan in their first matches since returning from break. 
This meet marks their last home event this season, and with only three weeks left until the MIAA champi ­onships, they need to come out strong. The Belles have learned to work together, even without some of their key swimmers. 
“Even though we may have lost some good swimmers recently, we still have a lot of talent on the team,” fresh­man Ellie Watson said. “We 
keep fighting no matter what the 200 freestyle Saturday challenges we face.” and second in the 500-meter 
Watson is freshmen for Saint Mary’s, many of whom have already proved to be 
outstanding performers. 
With only three seniors of the team, a lack of experi­ence has hurt the Belles at times. 
H o w e v e r, effort and 
one of nine freestyle in both meets. At 
“Even though we may have lost some good swimmers recently, we still have a lot of talent on the team.” 
Ellie Watson Belles freshman 
the same meet, freshman Genevieve Spi ttler took first in the 200­meter but­terfly and freshman Caila Poythress took first in the 200­meter back­stroke. 

team spirit has kept them going. 
Last weekend freshman Katie Griffin took first in both the 200-meter freestyle and 100-meter backstroke, and Watson finished first in After a first place finish, or two in Griffin’s case, the new goal becomes a race against the clock. 
“I just want to go out, have fun, and swim faster than I did last weekend,” Griffin said. 
Additionally, many of the Belles finished second in events across the board, even taking first, second and third on Saturday in the 200 backstroke. 
As a team, the goal for this weekend is simple. The girls have each shown their capa­bilities as individuals, but now want to come out with an overall triumph. 
“This weekend our team goal is to beat Albion College,” Watson said. “It’s going to be close but I know we are strong enough to pull out with a win.” 
The Belles take on Albion in their final home meet of the season in the Rolfs Aquatic Center at Notre Dame tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 


FENCING 
Irish head east to face top teams 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will have some high expectations to live up to this weekend as they go into the NCAA season opener in New York as the second-ranked team in the nation. 
Veteran talent is in no short supply on the Irish roster. The men’s team touts return­ing juniors Avery Zuck and Barron Nydam wielding the sabre, and sophomore Gerek Meinhardt plus juniors Steve Kubik and Zach Schirtz will be the backbone of the foil competition. The women’s side can count on senior Kelly Hurley and younger sis­ter sophomore Courtney Hurley to give a good show­ing in the epee. 
A solid set of freshmen will add depth to the roster including Lian Osier who brought home the gold in the women’s sabre last week at the North America Cup and Jason Choy who has shown remarkable progress in the men’s sabre. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski is confident that after numerous NAC tourna­ments, the team is competing with the level of skill needed for intercollegiate play. 
“It was one of the steps towards preparing them to compete in the NCAA,” Bednarski said. 
For the Irish, it will be a good test of their metal fac­ing off against such a large field of elite competitors with hundreds of fencers from across the country. 
“All the top teams will be there — Ohio State, Penn State, the returning national champions, Harvard, Columbia. Northwestern on the women’s side will be par­ticularly tough,” Bednarski said. “It will be interesting to take on Penn State, like a repeat of last year’s national championship.” 
The season officially kicks 
off Saturday at the NYU Duals followed by the St. John’s Challenge Sunday. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 22, 2010 
McGraw 
continued from page 24 
McGraw. 
“It’s going to be a tall order for us,” McGraw said. “I think they have a great point guard in Sarah Miles, who’s a really good 3-point shooter and runs her tail off, and then they have some inside play­ers. Korinne Campbell, who’s really made an impact on the team, she’s going to be a fac­tor for them.” 
Indeed, the pair of juniors has paced West Virginia to a second-place rank in the Big East standings and the pro­gram’s hottest start since the 1991-92 season. Miles leads the Big East with 6.8 assists and 3.1 steals per game, while turning the ball over the least. Campbell is a dual threat, working her way to top 10 in the conference in 3­point field goal percentage and rebounding. 
McGraw is confident her players will be ready for the challenge, so long as they stick to the Irish brand of basketball that has been so successful all season. 
“I think we’ve got to play 
our game,” McGraw said. “We’re shooting the ball pret­ty well, we’ ve got a lot of good options on offense, but it comes down to defense and how much pressure we can put on the ball. That’s when we’re most successful, when we get people to turn the ball over.” the conference. Junior 

The proof is in the num-Devereaux Peters, who was bers. The Irish are 10-0 when sidelined with a torn ACL last they force 20 or more season, will play a significant turnovers out of the opposi-factor against the tion. Mountaineer post threats. 
Recently though, the Irish “She’s a really, really great defense has looked sluggish rebounder, defender and in the first half, shot -blocker,” leading to McGraw said. “I deficits of 12 think she’s been and 20 to able to find her 
“It’s important to set 
Louisville and way back, not Connecticut, the tone early, but I worrying about respectively. think our strength is scoring and The Irish were where she’s get-
in our depth.” 
able to over -ting the points. come their It’s a little bit first-half woes Muffet McGraw easier when against the Irish coach there’s no pres-
Cardinals, and McGraw said she thinks her team is built to play the full 40 minutes. 
“It’s important to set the tone early, but I think our strength is in our depth,” McGraw said. “We can really wear people down, so in the second half we tend to play much better because we’re fresher, and we have great balance with different people coming in. I think it helps us relax, and we’ve been a sec­ond-half team mostly because of our bench.” 
The triple threat of guards seniors Lindsay Schrader and Ashley Barlow, and freshman Skylar Diggins will be key to the Irish’s success, as they look to run the ball and score early and often against a Mountaineers team giving up the second-fewest points in 
advantage. “We definitely needed to 
DePaul 

rebound more,” Scott said. continued from page 24 “We all took that question and 
said to each other, ‘We have to Senior forward Luke rebound more’. I think that is Harangody said the team isn’t where we lost this game.” panicking after dropping two Harangody echoed Scott’s straight Big East games to assessment. Cincinnati and Syracuse. “They’re coming in every 
“It’s early in the season still, time and have some big guys we have a good DePaul team over there, but that is no coming in here,” excuse. We just Harangody said. need to get in “You just bounce there every time back, we’ve and try to put a been through “It’s early in the body on someone 
this many times season still ... You and for most of 
before, and just the night we 
just have to bounce
get that league were coming up win.” back.” with those,” 
The Irish fell Harangody said. at home Monday “But in the end of 
Luke Harangody 
to No. 5 the night, in the 
Irish forward 
Syracuse 84-71 last seven or despite strong eight minutes, games from those were their Harangody and balls and that’s junior Tim Abromaitis. the game right there.” Harangody scored 31 points The Blue Demons will be with 14 rebounds and looking for their first road win Abromaitis added 26, but the of the season Saturday after Orange pulled away from a five straight losing efforts. resilient Irish team in the final While the team has struggled minutes. to score at times, their defense 
Junior forward Carlton Scott is holding opponents to just said rebounding late in the under 64 points per game. game let the Orange seize the Senior guard Will Walker sure on her to 
score a lot of 
points because we need her in the game to help us rebound and be a presence on defense.” 
All gate receipts as well as the net concession revenue from the game will be donat­ed to aid recovery efforts in Haiti. During both the men’s and women’s games over the weekend, student athletes will pass buckets throughout the crowd for added dona­tions. 
All donations will be used in aid toward the Notre Dame Haiti Program, the Congregation of Holy Cross and Catholic Relief Services. 
Tip-off is at 1 p.m. Sunday at Purcell Pavilion, with cov­erage on ESPNU. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
leads DePaul offensively, aver­aging 14.9 points per game. His leadership was key in the Marquette upset, leading the Blue Demons with 18 points. 
Sophomore Krys Faber has also become a force in the DePaul frontcourt since Webster has taken the coach­ing reigns, and the center used his 6-foot-10 frame to grab a career-high ten rebounds against the Golden Eagles. 
While the Irish battle on the court, the Notre Dame com­munity will be helping those fighting for survival at both basketball games this week­end. The University will donate full gate receipts and net concession revenue to ben­efit relief and rebuilding efforts in Haiti. 
During the first half of the game, student athletes will also pass buckets through the crowd raising money for the relief effort. Money raised will be contributed to the Notre Dame Haiti Program, the Congregation of Holy Cross and Catholic Relief Services. 
Tip-off is scheduled for 2 p.m. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

ND TRACK & FIELD 
Irish host Louisville, MichiganStateinInvite 
By KAITLYN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame hopes to repeat as men’s and women’s cham­pions as it hosts the Notre Dame Invitational Saturday. 
The Irish will face Big East powerhouse Louisville and Big Ten top-competitor Michigan State. Both teams have proved themselves to be formidable opponents in track and field events in the past. 
Junior thrower John Belcher said the meet has an intense and competitive nature as it marks the start of top-level spring competition. 
“In my experience, for the field events this is a upper echelon meet for our confer­ence,” Belcher said. “There is always a great competitive atmosphere.” 
Last Friday Notre Dame hosted the Notre Dame Indoor Opener, and although the meet did not include team scoring, the Irish had many outstanding performances throughout the night. 
Irish coach Joe Piane said last week’s meet was all about “looking to see what kind of shape these men and women are in.” 
After proving to be strong competitors, the team hopes to continue to win meets and have as many individuals as possible qualify for both the Big East and NCAA Championships. 
The Irish will look to stand­out performers from last 
Frilling 
continued from page 24 

engaged in personal competi­tions in different parts of the country. 
“We need to get out on the road as a team,” Louderback said. “We have some new dou­bles teams this season and once our kids get the experi­ence of playing together I think our doubles will be very good.” 
Both Louderback and Frilling stress the importance that this weekend will hold as the team’s first chance to trav­el and play together. 
“I think our team has a lot of drive and desire to prove that we are one of the best teams in the country,” Frilling said. “Even though tennis is an individual sport, we all weekend’s Notre Dame Indoor Opener. Freshman sprinter Nevada Sorenson will look for her second indoor first place finish this season in the 60­meter hurdles. The men’s counterpart, junior Justin Schneider, will also look to repeat last week’s first place finish. 
The team will also depend on their dominant mid-dis­tance runners, senior Cameron Eckert, sophomore Randall Babb and freshman Trent Sayers in the 1,000­meter race. 
In the field events, the team anticipates a continuance of the first and second place fin­ishes that brothers Kevin and Matt Schipper have delivered in the past. In the women’s field events, pole-vaulters freshman Chrissy Finkel and junior Jessica Sullivan hope to repeat their Big East qualify­ing performances from last weekend. 
Piane said the Irish hope for a successful, and prolonged, season. 
“We want to make it to the Big East and win,” he said. “That is certainly our goal in the short term. For the long term, we want to send as many individual men and women and relay teams as possible to the NCAA Tournament.” 
The Notre Dame Invitational will begin Saturday at 10 a.m. in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu 
work together as a team and I think that really helps us.” 
This weekend’s trip will fea­ture the debut of heralded freshman Chrissie McGaffigan. 
“[McGaffigan] is so talented, and I’m really excited that she is going to experience her first Notre Dame dual match this weekend in her home state of Iowa,” Frilling said. 
Though the team struggled with injuries in the fall, Louderback emphasizes that the team is ready for competi­tion and has a substantial amount of returning talent. 
“We have a very experi­enced team with three seniors and five of our top six back from last year,” Louderback said. “Right now we are healthy and ready to go.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Friday, January 22, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, January 22, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND faces No. 16 West Virginia in Big East tilt 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Unless you’re Connecticut, it’s not every day that your team gets to play the role of season spoiler week in and week out. But when No. 16 West Virginia comes to Purcell Pavilion Sunday to defend its undefeated confer­ence record, the Irish will have the opportunity to bust the Mountaineers’ 16-game win streak before the Huskies do. 

No. 4 Notre Dame (16-1, 3­1 Big East) is coming off one of its most important tests of the season, a 78-60 victory over Louisville that put the Irish back in the win column. Unfortunately, Louisville is nowhere near the level of play the Mountaineers will be bringing to the table, a fact not lost on Irish coach Muffet TOM LA/The Observer 
Junior guard Brittany Mallory drives to the basket against Iona during Notre Dame’s 80-45 victory on see MCGRAW/page 22 Nov. 22. The Irish face their second top-20 team in eight days Sunday against No. 16 West Virginia. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish open spring with three foes 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will open the spring season today against William & Mary before hosting IUPUI and No. 2 Virginia Sunday. The Irish begin the season ranked No. 30 in the country. 
“I don’t put a lot of stock in rankings, especially pre-sea­son ones,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Ours is based primarily on last year’s fin­ish.” 
Notre Dame closed the fall season against the same William & Mary squad it meets today. 
“William & Mary has already played four matches, so we have an idea of what to expect,” Bayliss said. “They beat us two years ago, but we 
see BAYLISS/page 20 


HOCKEY 
Notre Dame tries to get back into CCHArace at Lake Superior 
Lake Superior (14-8-4, 9-7-2-ior players as the season only ten conference games ices of senior wing Christiaan 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 

1). turned sour. remaining to make up ground Minella, who suffered a knee 
Sports Writer 

The Irish are coming off of a “Those kids that are cap-in the CCHA. injury against the Spartans, four-point home-and-home tains in there, if they weren’t “We can’t be consistent for which will keep him off the ice 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson series against No. 10 working hard, if they weren’t just one weekend series. It’s for 6-8 weeks. Minella joins a returns to Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan State. The weekend executing, if they weren’t crunch time and we need to long list of Irish wounded, Mich., where he led Lake was marked by four goals doing their best for the team, pick up points whenever we which has left Notre Dame Superior State to two NCAA from Notre Dame senior cap-then we’d have issues,” can,” Thang said. “Our mar-depleted along the defensive titles, this weekend as the tain Ryan Thang, who had Jackson said. “But I certainly gin for error is tiny … 10 line. Irish face the No. 18 Lakers in been mired in a scoring don’t feel that, not in any way games is a short period of The Lakers enter this week-a two-game CCHA series. drought. at all.” time, and we need to go out end as one of the hottest 
Notre Dame (10-10-6, 6-7-5-The performance relieved Notre Dame will hope to with a bang. We’re going to teams in the CCHA, coming off 2 CCHA) is sitting in a tie for some stress on the Irish, who carry its offensive momentum make a run at this thing.” a sweep of CCHA-opponent sixth place in the conference, have been searching for more into Sault Ste. Marie this Notre Dame will need to five points behind fifth-place contributions from their sen-weekend, as the Irish have make its run without the serv-see THANG/page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish face another Big East test 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
For an Irish team that has fallen back to the pack after a 3-1 start in Big East play, wel­coming DePaul to Purcell Pavilion would usually sound like the perfect remedy. 
Notre Dame can’t look past the Blue Demons (8-10, 1-5) this Saturday, however, after the team broke a 24-game conference losing streak with a huge upset over Marquette on Jan. 20. Interim coach Tracy Webster’s rejuvenated team defeated the Golden Eagles on a last-second fade-away by Mike Stovall for a 51­50 win, the team’s first since Dec. 19. 
see DEPAUL/page 22 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Frilling leads team into Big Ten competitions 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will make its first road trip as a team Saturday, stopping at both Iowa and Wisconsin to check out some of the competition that the Big Ten has to offer. 
“I think it will be good for us to open up on the road against two Big Ten schools,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “The Big Ten is getting tougher each year.” 
Iowa has a very experienced team, boasting many seniors and juniors, and each of the teams are under new adminis­trations, vying to start off the season with a win. 
“Both Iowa and Wisconsin have coaches in their first or second year so they both are on the rise,” Louderback said. 
This match-up against Iowa marks the first meeting of two very talented sophomores, Iowa’s Sonja Molnar and Notre Dame’s Kristy Frilling, who were both named “Freshman of the Year” by their respective conferences. 
“The Big Ten is definitely a formidable force in women’s tennis,” Frilling said. 
Due to injuries, the Irish women’s tennis team did not travel together during the fall portion of this year’s season, though a few members 
see FRILLING/page 22 





