the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Holy Half Marathon draws more than 900 
University community runs 13.1 miles to benefit New Orleans relief organization 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Over 900 runners, includ­ing students, faculty and staff and residents of the South Bend area, covered a 
13.1 -mile course around campus Sunday morning for the sixth annual Holy Half Marathon. 
The course, which began 
on South Quad in front of South Dining Hall, included two laps of a 6.5-mile route that weaved around campus and around St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s lakes. 
Race organizers said they were pleased with the amount of runners who par­ticipated. 
“We had 305 people alone register the morning of the race, which was such a great surprise,” junior and race co-director Gabby Tate said. “We completely ran out of everything, but people just wanted to run, which was wonderful.” 
Tate, along with junior Sean Kickham, was responsi­ble for ensuring the course was ready and adequately equipped with water sta ­tions, flags and volunteers. 
“We ’re there to oversee registration, direct the vol­unteers and answer any questions that the runners might have,” she said. “It’s definitely a fun and crazy 
see RACE/page 8 




Observer winsICPA awards 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer won third place in the Division I “Newspaper of the Year” category, and former Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz won the Brook Baker Collegiate Journalist of the Year Award at the Indiana College Press Association (ICPA) awards ceremony, held Saturday at Ball State University in Muncie. 
The Observer staff won an additional nine awards, including three first places. Other University publications represented at ICPA were: Scholastic, which won “News Magazine of the Year,” Dome, which won second place in “Yearbook of the Year” and The Juggler, which won third place in “Literary Magazine of the Year.” 
Metz is the second Notre Dame student to win the Brook Baker Award, which was first awarded in 1999 and is named in honor of the late Vincennes University student. 
Metz was recognized especially for her role in leading The Observer ’s in-depth, breaking cover-
see ICPA/page 6 



ND reaffirms pro-life stance 

Family to match class gift funds 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Looking to encourage stu­dent participation in the donation process, the Class of 2010 Senior Legacy has joined forces with class of 2010 parents Thomas and 
L a u r a  Wo o d w a r d  t o  f o r m  
t h e  n e w  S e n i o r  L e g a c y  
Challenge.  

For every 20 percent of the senior class that makes a donation to the fund, the Woodwards will make a donation of $10,000 to the Class of 2010 Hesburgh Libraries endowment. 
One hundred percent par­ticipation will result in a $50,000 donation. 
For Ian Secviar and Emily Everett, co -chairs of the Student Development Committee for Senior Legacy 2010, the greatest benefit of the Woodwards’ donation is that it encour­ages students to donate, regardless of amount. 
“It’s really cool because we have always emphasized participation,” Secviar said. “This way, we can show even small gifts make a dif­ference because of the matching money.” 
Participation in legacy programs the last few years has been lagging, according 
see CHALLENGE/page 6 


By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
In response to a recommen­dation of the University’s pro-life task force, Notre Dame has issued an institutional statement to affirm its com­mitment to the defense of human life, the University announced Thursday. 
Notre Dame also clarified its position on charitable gifts in the principles on charitable activity, another recommenda­tion of the task force. 
The Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life was created by University President Fr. John Jenkins in September, partly in response to controversy over Jenkins’ invitation to President Barack Obama to deliver the 2009 Commencement address. 
The statement on the defense of life reads: “Consistent with the teaching of the Catholic Church on such issues as abortion, research involving human embryos, euthanasia, the death penalty and other related life issues, the University of Notre Dame recognizes and upholds the sanctity of human life from conception to natural death.” 
According to the University’s Initiative on Adult Stem Cell Research and Ethics, Notre Dame does not engage in embryonic stem cell research, but scientists currently con­duct research related to adult stem cells. 

University spokesman Dennis Brown said under the principles on charitable activi­ty, Notre Dame will not con­tribute to or support organi­zations that engage in research that conflicts with Church teaching. 
Brown said Notre Dame does not anticipate any “dra­matic changes” resulting from the new statement. 
“The statement and princi­ples affirm what always has been the case at Notre Dame, that the University fully sup­ports Church teachings on the sanctity of human life,” Brown 
see LIFE/page 3 



Awareness week begins today 
By JENN METZ 
Senior Staff Writer 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students’ annual spring awareness event encourages students to take a stand against discrimination and participate in healing dia­logue. 
StaND Against Hate Week kicks off today and continues through Friday, the National Day of Silence, a nationwide movement to pledge a vow of silence against anti-lesbian, gay, bisexual and transsexual (LGBT) discrimination. 
Senior and co-chair of the 
see STAND/page 8 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC welcomes siblings 3  Clausen’s NFL workouts page 24  Tina Fey returns to SNL page 12  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, April 12, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Time at The Observer 
I first started working at The Observer during my freshman year. After high school, I wanted to try something new, and I fig­ured the paper would offer me the opportu ­nity to see all 
Joseph McMahon
different 
parts of cam-
Associate 
pus. 

News Editor
During my 
first year, I 

worked more on the newspaper 
than at my schoolwork. After 
botching a quote so badly that 
the editors needed to publish an 
official apology, I decided to work 
harder and took as many stories 
as I could. 

But the initial enthusiasm I had 
freshman year slowly began to 
give way to total apathy. Most 
nights editing the paper can long, 
and too much time in the base­
ment of South Dining Hall can be 
soul crushing. After spending a 
semester abroad, I began to 
question why I would bother to 
spend so much time working at 
something that I hated. 

While I still loved writing and 
reporting, I was afraid that the 
newspaper was conflicting too 
much with my studies, and I 
wanted to do other things during 
my time at college. 

But after a semester when I did 
not spend a lot of time working at 
the paper — especially compared 
to how much time I had spent 
working there in the past — I 
realized that The Observer is 
honestly one of the best opportu­
nities on campus. 

In addition to having the 
chance cover almost any story 
you want, you really have the 
opportunity to learn about Notre 
Dame’s history while still being 
able to see where its future is 
headed. 

Sure, there are times when I 
really do wish that I did not have 
to write a story or spend a night 
editing the paper, and at times 
the extra workload can make a 
stressful life even more hectic. 
But the rewards that I get from 
working at the paper far exceed 
what I have to put into it. 

The reporting aspect allows me 
to explore different parts of the 
University and keeps me current 
on what is going on, while actual­
ly writing has helped improve my 
English skills. 

However, one of the coolest 
aspects of The Observer is that it 
really allows you to meet the peo­
ple that are involved in the day­
to-day life of the University. From 
student leaders to administration 
officials to just people involved in 
the day -to -day life of the 
University, The Observer gives 
students the opportunity to meet 
the people who shape the “Notre 
Dame bubble.” 

I really could never imagine 
Notre Dame without the Observer 
— my experience at the newspa­per has completely shaped my experience at the University. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU EXCITED FOR  LEE TO START A AIN ON TUESDAY? 







Andrew Anderson  Katie Pryor  Mary Kate Valdivia  Rachel Chisausky  Yiting Zheng  
freshman Keough  freshman McGlinn  freshman Welsh Family  freshman McGlinn  freshman McGlinn  
“No. The lip syncing is horrible.”  “I would cry with joy but I had my tear ducts surgically removed.”  “I am excited to see what happens between Finn and Rachel.”  “No, I am morally opposed to TV because it kills your brain and sucks away your soul.”  “H – E – double hockey sticks – Z yeah!”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SARAH O’CONNOR /The Observer Sophomore Erin Gibson throws the ball past a defender in the women’s water polo team’s win over Grand Valley State University in the CWPA Midwest Championship game at the Rolfs Aquatic Center Sunday. 
OFFBEAT 
Man drives drunk to prison for DUI sentence 
SPRINGFIELD, Vt. — Police said a Massachusetts man headed to a Vermont prison to serve a two-day sentence for driving under the influence was intoxicat­ed when he drove himself to prison. 
Vermont State Police say that staff at the Southern State Correctional Facility in Springfield noticed that a 42-year-old man was intoxi­cated when he arrived late Tuesday afternoon and that he had driven himself there. 
So prison staff called police. 
Police said the man was then processed for DUI sec­ond offense and released back into the custody of the Department of Corrections. 

The man was due to appear in court later this month on the latest charge. 
Cash-strapped man eats burrito at store,calls police 
HASTINGS, Mich. — Authorities said a man took a bite into crime when he helped himself to a burrito and a bag of Funyuns snacks at a gas station food store in Hastings, then told the clerk to call police because he had no money to pay. 
Barry County Prosecutor Tom Evans said 28-year-old Michael Odell was charged with retail fraud. Odell, who told police he is homeless, is jailed on a $2,000 bond with a pretrial hearing set for May 4. 
Evans said Odell ate the burrito and Funyuns on Saturday morning, then had the cashier call police. The prosecutor said Odell told officers he had spent his money at a tavern in the city 35 miles west of Lansing. 
Jail records say Odell did-n’t have an attorney as of Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight tuesday wednesday 

IN BRIEF 
The University Counseling Center is sponsoring a free self-improvement program titled “Peace of Mind: The Art of Mindful Relaxation,” which will take place today at 12 p.m. in the third-floor conference room of St. Liam Hall. 
Visiting professor Michael Witzel will give a lecture titled “Out of Africa: Tracing Early Mythologies by a New Approach, Historical-Comparative Mythology” today at 4:15 p.m. in the Andrews Auditorium of Geddes Hall. 
The School of Architecture will hold a lecture titled “Preserving the Heritage of 1900: Specificities and Challenges" today at 4:30 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. The lecture will be followed by a free reception. 
The leader of the Knights of Columbus will sign books and give a lecture titled “Faith, Hope & Charity: Pope Benedict's Prescription for Catholic Living" today at 8 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. 
The baseball team will face Chicago State at 6:05 p.m. on Tuesday in the Eck Baseball Stadium. Adult tickets are $5, senior and youth admission is $3, and children under 3 are free. 
The Department of Film, Television, and Theatre’s pro­duction of Noel Coward’s “Blithe Spirit” opens Tuesday night at 
7:30 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theater of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
thursday friday 


Atlanta 79 / 51 Boston 60 / 39 Chicago 68 / 49 Denver 74 / 50 Houston 79 / 59 Los Angeles 62 / 49 Minneapolis 66 / 47 New York 66 / 42 Philadelphia 69 / 42 Phoenix 82 / 58 Seattle 55 / 46 St. Louis 81 / 53 Tampa 81 / 63 Washington 73 / 47 
Monday, April 12, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Saint Mary’s invites siblings to campus 
Lil’ Sibs Weekend draws nearly 250 people to campus; events include petting zoo, games, magician, Mass 

said. “My little sister is seven, so she had a blast with the petting zoo, bounce arounds and face painting at the County Fair.” 
McClurkin said she would bring her sister back next year if the timing works out again. 
“It’s always fun to have people from home visit your home away from home,” she said. 
Moore said she believes events like those of this past weekend are important because they give non-students a different perspec­tive of campus. 
“I think Lil’ Sibs Weekend is an important event to have because it allows students the opportunity to show off their school to their siblings and family,” Moore said. “The siblings get to see what Saint Mary’s is really all about from an insider’s point of view.” 
Alicia Smith contributed report­ing to this story. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


Life 
continued from page 1 
said. “What they do is, in the case of the statement, provide a clear and unequivocal University position on life and, in the case of the principles, provide a consistent founda­tion for how best to direct our charitable giving.” 
The adoption of the state­ment in support of life is the first time the University has officially documented the posi­tion, Brown said. 
Margaret Brinig, law profes­sor and co-chair of the pro-life task force, said the task force wanted to formalize the University’s position in support of life. 
“The task force felt that hav­ing a written statement, rather than simply an unstated policy, was important to both reaffirm and make explicit the University’s commitment,” Brinig said. “As a Catholic institution, we felt it important to re-articulate the centrality of our mission and its connec­tion to the Church.” 
A document with criteria for the implementation of charita­ble activity based upon the principles in the statement is forthcoming, a University press release said. 
“I am grateful to the task force for recommending the creation of these documents and helping us compose them,” Jenkins said in the release. “The new principles provide standards for the University and its representa­tives in making determinations on giving in a way consonant with our beliefs.” 
Brinig said she also does not foresee any large changes as a result of the new statement. 
“We do not anticipate dra­matic changes to University life since this statement simply re-affirms and makes explicit our standards so that we can apply them consistently,” she said. “Both documents reaf­firm what always has been Notre Dame’s institutional position: We unequivocally support Church teachings on the sanctity of human life.” 

Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
One of the hardest parts of going away to college is leaving behind younger siblings. To help alleviate that difficulty, Saint Mary’s Residence Hall Association (RHA) organized Lil’ Sib’s Weekend so students could bring their younger siblings to campus to participate in events and get to know their older sister’s home 
from campus. 
“Once we had the theme and dates down, Saint Mary’s County Fair [and] April 9-11, thinking of things to have going on all week­end came a little easier,” Moore said. “We split up the work between us so we would not get too overwhelmed. Let’s just say I am very good at multitasking and working towards a deadline now.” 
The weekend’s events began Friday in the Student Center 
where partici­
pants registered 
and received T-Bounce, an inflatable obstacle course and a ball toss game. 
Saturday afternoon there was also a magic show for the chil­dren, Moore said. 
“The weather was beautiful and it was a perfect day for this,” Moore said. “At the carnival we had a magician perform. He had two lovely acts that kept everyone stunned and entertained.” 

Each  of  the  “I think Lil’ Sibs Weekend  year with her  
residence halls on campus pro­vided its own  is an important event to have because it allows  seven-year­old sister. She said the tim­ 
activity Saturday. The Hall Councils on cam­pus also provid­ students the opportunity to show off their school to their siblings and family.”  ing this year worked out well for her sister to come  
ed an activity for  and the two  
in which every­one could partic­ipate at the car- Catherine Moore Lil’ Sibs co-chair  enjoyed all the events. “ T h e r e  
nival.  were enough  
“Le Mans Hall  that  we  

had flowers to plant in cups and always had something to do and you could decorate the cups,” look forward to, but it wasn’t Moore said. “McCandless super busy, so we still had time to brought a tug-of-war rope, Holy relax and hang out,” McClurkin Cross Hall had bozo buckets and prizes to win and Regina Hall put on a pie eating contest.” 
That evening RHA held a show­ing of the movie Barnyard in Carroll Auditorium. 
The weekend came to a close Sunday when a Mass was held at the Church of Loretto. 
Junior Grace McClurkin partici­
pated for the 
first time this 

away home. S o p h o m o r e  “It’s always fun to have people from home  shirts, followed by an ice cream  
Catherine Moore, co-chair of the event, said she  visit your home away from home.”  social. On Saturday, the younger sib­ 
and other co-chair senior  Grace McClurkin  lings were taken to a county fair  
Andrea Firth started thinking  junior  where there were animals at  
of themes at the  a  petting  zoo  

beginning of the school year including sheep, calves, lambs, before finally settling on “Saint baby goats, alpacas, emus, rams Mary’s County Fair,” which and a potbellied pig. brought close to 250 people to In addition, there was a Moon 
page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 12, 2010 




World & Nation 
Monday, April 12, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Center-right wins big in Hungary 
BUDAPEST — Hungary’s center-right party reclaimed the right to govern on Sunday, winning over 50 percent of the vote and handing the ruling Socialists a humiliating defeat. Extreme rightists backed by black clad paramilitary troops took more than 15 percent to come in third. 
While widely forecast, the strong gain of the extreme right Jobbik party represented the greatest political shake-up of the elec­tion, shattering Hungary’s traditional post-communist status quo of a parliament domi­nated by the center right and the left. 

Skirmishes renewed at U.N. talks 
BONN, Germany — Climate talks nearly ground to a halt before they began in earnest Sunday, with delegates squabbling over how to conduct negotiations for the rest of the year on a new agreement to control global warm­ing. 
Talks about talks appeared at times on the verge of breakdown over seemingly minor procedural issues, but that reflected a deep divide on how to treat the hastily crafted polit­ical deal struck at the Copenhagen summit last December by President Barack Obama with a small group of other world leaders. 
The lengthy battle ostensibly was over the authorization of a committee chairwoman to prepare a draft negotiating text for the next meeting in June. 
The split between industrial countries and the developing world is likely to continue characterizing the talks. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Earthquakes shake California 
SAN DIEGO — A cluster of moderate earth­quakes near the U.S.-Mexico border is contin­uing to rattle southern California one week after a magnitude 7.2 quake slammed the area. 
The U.S. Geological Survey says a magnitude 
4.4 earthquake struck at 9:42 a.m. Sunday, about 11 miles west of downtown Calexico. 
At least 17 other quakes in the magnitude 3 range were also reported in the same area Sunday. 
No damage or injuries have been reported. 
Scientists say the increased seismic activity is normal following the magnitude 7.2 earth­quake last Sunday. 

Divisions arise in Haiti adoptions 
NEW YORK — Logistical challenges and potentially bitter disputes lie ahead as passionate advocates of adoption press for changes that might enable thousands of Haitian children affected by the earth­quake to be placed in U.S. homes. 
The obstacles are daunting, starting with a need to register Haiti’s dislocated chil­dren. If done right, this would enable authorities to distinguish between children who might be good candidates for adop­tion and those with surviving relatives willing to care for them. 
There also will be efforts to overhaul Haiti’s troubled child protection system, update its adoption laws and boost support for family reunification programs in Haiti. 
But even before those goals are pursued, there are sharp divisions over how vigor­ously and quickly to seek an expansion of adoptions. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Three fatally stabbed in home 
KOKOMO, Ind. — Central Indiana police say autopsies have revealed that two women and a man found dead Friday in a Kokomo home died from multiple stab wounds. 
Investigators also said Sunday they now consider 30-year-old Jeremy Blanchard a suspect in the killings of 57-year-old Rebecca Berg, her 28-year-old daughter Jessica Berg and 62-year-old David McPike. He was arrested Friday night in London, Kentucky. 
The Bergs had been staying with McPike and were in town to attend a relative’s funeral. 
POLAND 



Plane crash shocks government 
Poles grieve loss of president, move quickly to maintain political order 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland — Poland’s government moved swiftly Sunday to show that it was staying on course after the deaths of its presi­dent and dozens of political, military and religious lead­ers, even as tens of thou­sands of Poles expressed their grief over the plane crash in Russia that shocked the country. 
New acting chiefs of the military were already in place and an interim direc­tor of the central bank was named Sunday, with work running as usual, said Pawel Gras, a government spokesman. 
It was a rare positive note on a day wracked by grief for the 96 dead and laced with reminders of Poland’s dark history with its power­ful neighbor. The Saturday crash occurred in thick fog near the Katyn forest, where Josef Stalin’s secret police in 1940 systematical­ly executed thousands of Polish military officers in the western Soviet Union. 

President Lech Kaczynski and those aboard the aging Soviet-built plane had been headed there to honor the dead. A preliminary analy­sis showed the plane had been working fine, a draped coffin before rising Russia, and his country held Poland is a young democ-Russian investigator said. slowly and crossing himself. two minutes of silence in racy, adopting its constitu-
Tens of thousands of Poles Standing sentinel were memory of those killed in tion in 1997 after decades softly sang the national four Polish troopers bearing the crash. under communism, but anthem and tossed flowers sabers. There was no sign Church bells pealed at political scientist Kazimierz at the hearse carrying the of the twins’ ailing mother noon and emergency sirens Kik of Kielce University said 60-year-old Kaczynski’s Jadwiga, who has been hos-shrieked for nearly a he was confident it would body Sunday to the presi-pitalized. The president had minute before fading. remain stable. dential palace after it was canceled several foreign Hundreds bowed their “The democracy is pass-returned from Russia’s trips lately to be by her side. heads, eyes closed, in front ing the test, there is no Smolensk airport, the site of The coffin was placed of the presidential palace. doubt about it,” he said. the crash. aboard a Mercedes-Benz Buses and trams halted in “This tragedy does not 
The coffin bearing the hearse and slowly traveled the streets. threaten the state in any president’s remains were several miles to the palace, No date for a funeral has measure, Poland’s institu­met first by his daughter watched by thousands of been set and the Polish tions are strong, but there is Marta, whose mother, the weeping Poles. presidential palace has not the trauma of the nation.” first lady, Maria Kaczynska, “He taught Poles how to yet said if Kaczynski will lie Among the dead were also perished in the crash. respect our traditions, how in state, though it is not a Poland’s army chief of staff, She knelt before it, her fore-to fight for our dignity, and Polish tradition. the navy chief commander, head resting on the coffin. he made he made his sacri-Kaczynski was the first and heads of the air and 
She was followed by fice there at that tragic serving Polish leader to die land forces. At the Field Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the for-place,” said mourner since exiled World War II-Cathedral of the Polish mer prime minister, and the Boguslaw Staron, 70. era leader Gen. Wladyslaw Army in Warsaw, hundreds president’s twin brother. He, President Dmitry Sikorski was killed in a gathered for a morning too, knelt and pressed his Medvedev declared Monday mysterious plane crash off Mass and left flowers and head against the flag-a day of mourning in Gibraltar in 1943. written condolences. 


Obama: Nukes pose greatest threat to U.S. 
“If there was ever a detonation in He said other world leaders have 
Associated Press 

New York City, or London, or offered “very specific approaches to 
WASHINGTON — If al-Qaida Johannesburg, the ramifications eco-how we can solve this profound inter-acquired nuclear weapons it “would nomically, politically and from a securi-national problem.” have no compunction at using them,” ty perspective would be devastating,” Obama singled out South Africa for President Barack Obama said Sunday the president said. giving up its nuclear program, and said on the eve of a summit aimed at finding “We know that organizations like al-it “has been a strong, effective leader in ways to secure the world’s nuclear Qaida are in the process of trying to the international community on non-stockpile. secure nuclear weapons or other proliferation issues. South Africa has 
“The single biggest threat to U.S. weapons of mass destruction, and special standing in being a moral security, both short-term, medium-would have no compunction at using leader on this issue.” term and long-term, would be the pos-them,” Obama said. South African President Jacob Zuma sibility of a terrorist organization The Nuclear Security Summit of more was among the leaders Obama met obtaining a nuclear weapon,” Obama than 40 world leaders in Washington with Sunday at Blair House, across said. “This is something that could this week is aimed at securing “loose from the White House. Others included change the security landscape in this nuclear material,” Obama said. He was Indian Prime Minister Manmohan country and around the world for years holding one-on-one meetings Sunday Singh and Kazakh President Nursultan to come.” with several of those leaders. Nazarbayev. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 12, 2010 
ICPA 
continued from page 1 
age of President Barack Obama ’s 2009 Commencement address. 
“I’m very thankful for this award, and I think it reflects the work of the staff, not just my individual achieve­ment, ” Metz said. “I’m proud to have received this honor for The Observer.” 
During Metz’s term, The Observer also redesigned its Web site and provided in-depth coverage of the Notre Dame football program ’s head coaching change. 
“Jenn did a tremendous job leading The Observer over the past year, and I am pleased ICPA chose to recog­nize her with this award,” current Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber said. “Her award and the others The Observer received this weekend are a testament to the continued hard work of the many members of our talented staff.” 
Gamber, the former Sports Editor, won first place in the “Best Sports Column” cate­gory for his article remem­bering Mike Lockert, the Irish hockey radio announc­er who died of a heart attack last March at age 43. 
The Observer staff’s cover­age of the University’s firing 
of head football coach Charlie Weis won first place in both “Best Special Issue” and “Best Staff Editorial.” 
The eight-page special edi­tion was published on Dec. 1, 2009, the day after Weis’ firing. Included in the issue were player and student reaction, analysis of poten­tial replacements and a timeline chronicling Weis’ five-year tenure. The edito­rial, titled “Weis’ departure handled respectfully,” ran on Dec. 4, 2009. 
The Observer also earned second place in the “Best Special Issue” category for the May 15, 2009, “Senior Edition, ” which included coverage of President Obama ’s commencement speech and full news and sports recaps of the Class of 2009’s four years. 
Former Photo Editor Ian Gavlick won second place in “Best Sports Photo” for an action shot of Irish wide receiver Michael Floyd mak­ing a tough catch in a game last fall. 
Metz and Gavlick together won second place in “Best Breaking News Reporting Online” for a story and pho­tograph about President Obama ’s commencement speech. 
The March 23, 2009 edi­tion won third place in “Best Single Issue,” highlighted by its coverage of the breaking announcement that President Obama had accepted an invitation to speak at commencement. 
The Observer also won third place in “Best Standalone/Pullout Section” for the May 12, 2009 “Controversial Commencement ” edition, which covered in-depth the circumstances surrounding President Obama ’s Commencement address. 
The Observer’s Web site, ndsmcobserver.com, took third in “Best Overall Web site,” the first time the Web site earned an award. 
The Observer’s award-win­ning submissions are avail­able on its Web site. 

said. Secviar said the partner-
Challenge 

ship with the Woodward continued from page 1 family was one primary way the Committee hoped to Everett. to boost involvement in the 
“Up until the last few Senior Legacy 2010 fund. years participation has “This is the first year been good, but the last few we’ve ever had a challenge years have gone down and and we hope that it boosts funds for the Class of 2010 Hesburgh Library Endowment,” he said. 
w e w a n t  participation  
t o g e t  and reward s  
t h e m back up,”  “Especially with last year’s  participation l i k e n e v e r  
she said. S e c v i a r s a i d t h e h i g h e s t  donations, we feel the dip has been attributable to the economy.”  b e f o r e , ” h e said. T i m o t h y P o n i s c i a k ,  
r e c e n t  a d v i s o r t o  
p a r t i c i ­p a t i o n r a t e w a s  Ian Secviar co-chair  t h e S t u d e n t Development C o m m i t t e e  
the Class  Student Development  f o r S e n i o r  
o f 2 0 0 5 ,  Committee  Legacy 2010,  
w i t h 5 6  said that the  
p e r c e n t .  p r o g r a m  
L a s t  c o n c e i v e d  
y e a r ’ s  t h e i d e a  
C l a s s o f  f i r s t , a n d  

Everett said the deadline for the Challenge was set to coincide with gradua ­tion. 
“You can make a dona -Secviar said. 
One way the committee simplified the process is by creating a new Senior Legacy Web site. 
Although the main focus 
of Senior Legacy 2010 is the Hesburgh Library 
tion or pledge before May 15 that you will give some money before December 31, and that will still count to the Challenge, ” she said. 
Secviar and Ponisciak hope that pa rticipa ­tion in Senior Legacy 2010 
will also be 
“You can make a donation or pledge before May 15 that you will give some money before December 31, and that will still count to 
the Challenge.” 
Emily Everett co-chair Student Development Committee 
Endowment, graduating 
s e n i o r s  d o  
h a v e  t h e  
o p t i o n  t o  
c h o o s e  t h e  

recipient of their dona ­tion, Secviar said. 
“We really think that the Hesburgh Library Endowment is a really worthy cause, but if students want to con-

then looked for a partner in the Challenge. 
“We worked with our Major Gifts Department to see if the Woodwards would be interested in something based on partic­ipation and raising more 
greater 
because of measures taken by the Committee to make donating to the fund more straightforward. 
“Along with the challenge gift, we are trying to make giving easier as well, ” tribute to any area at Notre Dame it will still count to the Woodward Challenge and Senior Legacy,” he said. 

Contact Sam Stryker at stryke1@nd.edu 
2009 was the lowest in recent years, with only 22 percent of graduating sen­iors donating. 
“Especially with last year’s donations, we feel the dip has been attributa­ble to the economy, ” he 


The Observer 






Business
Monday, April 12, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Regulators close failed S.C. bank 
WASHINGTON — Regulators on Friday shut down a bank in South Carolina, marking 42 bank failures in the U.S. so far this year amid mounting loan defaults, especially in commercial real estate. 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. took over Beach First National Bank, based in Myrtle Beach, S.C., with $585.1 million in assets and $516 million in deposits. Bank of North Carolina, based in Thomasville, N.C., agreed to assume the assets and deposits of the failed bank. 
In addition, the FDIC and Bank of North Carolina agreed to share losses on $497.9 million of Beach First National Bank’s loans and other assets. 
It was the first failure of an FDIC-insured bank in South Carolina since 1999. The resolution of Beach First is expected to cost the deposit insur­ance fund $130.3 million. 
The bank, which registered triple-digit percent­age increases in profit during the real estate boom, suffered a net loss of $24 million for the first nine months of 2009. Beach First invested heavily in the real estate boom in the coastal area, dotted with oceanfront condominiums and upscale projects, and was hit when the market fell. 

Obama advertises tax breaks 
WASHINGTON — Just ahead of Tax Day, President Barack Obama is urging Americans to take advantage of tax credits for first-time homebuyers, college students and others. 
Obama used his weekly radio and Internet address Saturday to promote some of the tax benefits in last year’s stimulus bill, saying they could save people hundreds or even thousands of dollars and were available to more than 100 million Americans. Even those who file before the April 15 deadline can amend their returns if there are savings they missed, Obama noted. 
“No one I’ve met is looking for a handout. And that’s not what these tax cuts are,” Obama said. “Instead, they’re targeted relief to help middle-class families weather the storm, to jump-start our economy and to bring the fundamentals of the American dream — making an honest living, earning an education, owning a home and raising a family — back within reach for millions of Americans.” 
GREECE 



Debt crisis in Greece worsens 
European governments will offer 30 billion Euro backstop if Athens makes request 
Associated Press  
BRUSSELS — Trying  
again to halt a debt crisis  
that has hammered the  
euro, fellow eurozone gov­ 
ernments tossed struggling  
Greece a financial lifeline  
Sunday, saying they would  
make 30 billion in loans  
available this year alone —  
if Athens asks for the  
money.  
The International  
Monetary Fund stands  
ready to chip in another  
10 billion, said Olli Rehn,  
the EU monetary affairs  
chief.  
The promise — filling in  
details of a March 25  
pledge of joint eurozone- 
IMF help — was another  
attempt to calm markets  
that have been selling off  
Greek bonds in recent  
days.  
Markets viewed the  
March pledge as too vague  
and carrying such tough  
restrictions that Greece  
could not easily get the  
money. As a result,  
investors demanded high  
rates to loan to the gov­ 
ernment as it struggles to  
avoid default — rates the  
government says it can’t  
go on paying. Greece has AP  
some 54 billion in debt European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn addresses the  
coming due this year and a mediaattheEuropeanCommissionheadquartersinBrusselsSunday.  
huge budget deficit.  
In an emergency video  sidy” to Greece, Rehn told  said Greece had not asked  currency and help a part- 
conference, the finance  a news conference.  for the plan to be activat­ ner in trouble.  
ministers of the 16-euro- The test of Sunday’s  ed, and still hoped to bor­ “It shows that the euro  
zone nations agreed on a  announcement will be  row on markets rather  area is serious in doing  
complex three-year financ­ whether it restores confi­ than seeking a rescue.  what is necessary to  
ing formula that generates  dence that Greece will not  “The Greek government  secure financial stability,”  
an interest rate of “around  default and gives it a  has not asked for the acti- Barroso said in a state­ 
5 percent.”  chance to borrow normally  vation of the mechanism,  ment.  
This is less than com- at lower rates. Under last  even though this is already  “I am convinced that it  
mercial market rates —  week’s rates, Greece  immediately available,”  will help Greece to contin­ 
which have soared above 7  would have had to pay  Papaconstantinou said in  ue vigorously correct pub- 
percent on Greek 10-year  more than twice what  Athens. “The aim is, and  lic finances imbalances  
borrowing in recent weeks  Germany pays.  we believe we will contin­ and to deliver the neces­ 
as the debt crisis dragged  The danger is that inter­ ue to borrow unhindered  sary structural reforms.”  
on — but more than bene­ est payments themselves  on the markets.”  Rehn said the loan deal  
ficiaries of IMF usually  begin to sink the budget  Officials, speaking pri­ will be “the clarification  
pay. European Central  despite severe cutbacks  vately, told The Associated  that the markets are wait- 
Bank president Jean- imposed in recent days. A  Press they first want to see  ing for.”  
Claude Trichet and  Greek default would be a  how markets react on  Those markets, however,  
German Chancellor Angela  serious blow to the euro,  Monday.  have so far ignored  
Merkel have insisted that  rattle markets and inflict  European Commission  repeated EU claims of sup- 
Greece not get below-mar­ losses on European banks  President Jose Manuel  port for Greece causing  
ket interest rates amount- that have bought Greek  Barroso said the pledge of  commercial lending rates  
ing to an EU subsidy for its  government bonds.  cash for Greece showed  for Athens to go to 7 per- 
past bad behavior.  Greek Finance Minister  the 16 euro-zone nations  cent and more in recent  
“This is certainly no sub- George Papaconstantinou  will defend Europe’s single  weeks.  


Lacking state funding, Census rates lag 
Two weeks into the count, the The 2000 census found 33.9 million 
Associated Press 

state’s census form return rates are people in the state. It is estimated 
OAKLAND, Calif. — State and local about 10 percent behind the 2000 that the population will exceed 38 governments hammered by the total, officials said, adding that the million in 2010. recession have cut spending on out-numerical disparity would be worse Residents have until April 19 to reach for the 2010 U.S. Census, leav-without the efforts of philanthropic mail back their census forms. After ing hard-to-reach neighborhoods and community-based organizations. that, their answers will have to be with response rates that may fall “We need to make a push to make collected by census workers going behind the count a decade ago, offi-sure we at least stay even,” said door to door at considerable cials said. Louis Stewart, deputy director of expense. 
The funding cutbacks have come at California’s census outreach. “There Alameda County has one of the all levels, and at a cost. is a lot riding on this count.” state’s hardest to count populations 
California, for example, dedicated More than $435 billion a year is because of its diversity, its pockets of $24.7 million to the Census 2000 distributed by the federal govern-poverty, and the language barriers campaign. Although an undercount ment to states based on census-driv-faced by its varied immigrant groups. could cost the state billions in federal en funding formulas. California could But this year, Stewart said, there is funding and a Congressional seat, lose about $3,000 a year for each only $50,000 for outreach there, this year’s outreach budget is only $2 resident not counted in the 2010 cen-compared with about $250,000 in million. sus. 2000. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 12, 2010 
StaND 
continued from page 1 
´Core Council Eddie Velazquez said the Council hopes to bring the problem of discrimination to the attention of the Notre Dame community during this week’s events and provide opportunities 

for discussion, “It will be refreshing tunity for our “The Core Council absolutely questions and and encouraging to see Notre Dame and endlessly appreciates the healing. students and support of the student body and 
how much participation
“It’s impor-community to the increase of support we see 
we can get.” 
tant that [the stand against on a yearly basis,” Velazquez community] hate,” she said. “We lookforwardto seeing realize that Eddie Velazquez said. people at the events and wel­there are cer-The week come all students to support 
co-chair
tain situations will conclude [the Core Council] in an envi-
Core Council
where LGBT students are treated unfair­ly,” he said. 
For the past three years, StaND Against Hate Week has included a film screening, Velazquez said. Tonight at 7 p.m. the Core Council will present “The Laramie Project,” a 2002 film that documents the effects of the murder of Matthew Shepard on the citizens of Laramie, Wyo., in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. Shepard, a 21-year-old gay man, was tortured and mur­dered near Laramie in 1998. His trial brought national atten­tion to the reality of hate crimes and discrimination against the LGBT community. 
The film will be followed by a question and answer session facilitated by the University Counseling Center to examine questions — both emotional and psychological — for people that face anti-LGBT harassment, Velazquez said. 
“We start of the week immedi­ately considering what happens not just to those directly involved [in acts of discrimina­tion and violence] but also the people around then,” he said. The week will feature two new events this year: a guest lectur­er and a coffeehouse. 
Psychology professor Dominic Parrott from Georgia State University will present a lecture titled “Homosexuality Under the Dome: Past Struggles and Present Solutions” at 7 p.m. Tuesday in the Carey Auditorium. Parrott’s research is focused primarily on violence against LGBT people, Velazquez said. 
The lecture will be followed by a panel featuring alumni and members of the Core Council discussing the experiences of LGBT students on campus and how relations have changed over the years. 
A coffeehouse in the Coleman-Morse Center Thursday evening is perhaps the “most important to take note of,” Velazquez said. Students will be given the opportunity to bring in artwork that represents love, hate, prej­udice and healing to “share their responses to things like discrimination artistically,” he said. 
“The coffeehouse provides the student body a chance to really engage themselves and other students in tackling the difficul­ties in dealing with LGBT harassment,” he said. “Art gives people a creative outlet to deal with situations.” 
Other events include a talk called “Sexuality,” part of the Gender Relations Center (GRC) Signature series. The Core Council collaborates with the GRC every year during StaND Against Hate Week, Velazquez said. 
On Friday, free StaND Against 


Race 
continued from page 1 
variety of things that we have to do.” 
The event kicked off Saturday evening with Mass in the Dillon Hall chapel and a pasta dinner in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
Senior Cynthia Curley was recognized as the first female to complete the race at 1:27:00 and was followed by freshman Alison Podlaski, who finished in 1:29:00. 
Nick Bouwman, a student at nearby Goshen College, was the first male to cross the finish line, with a time of 
1:15:21. Freshman Ian Montijo finished a close sec­ond at 1:16:41. 
According to Tate, 815 of the 935 registered runners, including an area third grad­er, finished the race. 
Freshmen Annie Wehry and Aoibheann Thinnes said they felt a sense of accomplish­ment as they crossed the fin­ish line with a time of 1:56:03. 
“We finished in under two hours, which was our ulti­mate goal, ” Wehry said. 
“We ’re both really happy with how we did.” 
A team of seniors Sierra Smith, Matt Panhans, Meghan Shaughnessy, Aaron Pierre and graduate student Stephanie Nienaber ran the entire 13.1-mile race dressed as Waldo, the famous charac­ter from the children’s book series “Where’s Waldo?” 
“It was a perfect day for running,” Smith said. “Doing the half marathon with the rest of the Waldo gang made it even better.” 
The five friends agreed they appreciated the enthusi­astic crowds of supports dur­ing the race. 
Tate and Kickham both said they were grateful for “an amazing crew of volun­teers ” that assisted them with the production of the race. 
Hosted by the Class of 2011, this year’s Holy Half raised $20,000 for The Broadmoor Improvement Association (BIA) that works to rebuild New Orleans and provide relief to area victims of hurricanes Katrina and Gustav. 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 

Hate Week T-shirts will be dis­tributed at Fieldhouse Mall beginning at 11 a.m. Velazquez called the T-shirts one of the highlights of the week, and Sr. Sue Dunn, co-chair of the Core Council and Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs, encourages students to wear the T-shirts in solidarity with the National Day of 
Silence. 
“It’s a won­
derful oppor­said. “We’ll work to keep that awareness alive at Notre Dame.” 
Velazquez said this year’s events have even more rele­vance after The Observer pub­lished an offensive comic earlier in the semester. 
“It had some really positive outcomes,” he said, including raising awareness of discrimi­nation against LGBT members of the Notre Dame community and rallying support for the Core Council. 
with a prayer service in the Colem an-Morse chapel to reflect fol­

lowed by an ice cream social. 
Velazquez said he observed an increase in support for LGBT students on campus and he hopes the support will be reflected in event attendance. 
“It will be refreshing and encouraging to see how much participation we can get,” he 
ronment where everyone can 
feel welcome, especially LGBT 
students.” 
The week’s first event, an Ally 
Pledge and Day of Silence 
Banner Signing, will take place 
today from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at 
both dining halls and 
LaFortune. Students will have 
the opportunity to sign pledges 
and banners until Wednesday. 


Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


Monday, April 12, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 




Mine victims remembered 
Associated Press 
PETTUS, W.Va. — A pair of tall black boots and a lunch pail sat near the altar Sunday at the New Life Assembly church — a memorial to the 29 men killed in the worst U.S. mining disaster since 1970 and a thank-you to those who make their living inside the moun­tains. 
This day, the first Sunday since last Monday’s explosion killed 28 workers and a con­tractor at Massey Energy Co.'s Upper Big Branch mine in Montcoal, was for many a time to honor the profession. Tears of mourning fell, and arms swayed in worship among the 50 people gathered at the church. 
Pastor Gary Williams, who has worked at Massey Energy mines for 18 years, knew many of the victims. On his way to church Sunday morning, he heard Ricky Workman’s name among them for the first time. 
“I know his child. I know his wife. He’s a part of my family. He’s a part of my life,” Williams said, tears falling. “Over time, our hearts and the emptiness that we have inside will fade away, but I don’t never want to forget what hap­pened April 5, 2010.” 
Some of those who died have already been laid to rest. Crews worked Sunday to remove the bodies of several others who didn’t make it out, but the recovery had to be halted because of high gas readings in the mine. Crews need to drill another hole to vent the mine before they can continue. 
Four funerals were held Friday, with more scheduled for the weekend. Nearly two dozen will follow in the weeks ahead. Despite hope that four missing miners might survive long enough for rescuers to reach them, officials announced early Saturday morning that the four had apparently died instantly. 

A complete list of victims has yet to be released. Two other miners were injured in the blast, and one remains hospi­talized. 
A team of federal investiga­tors will arrive Monday as offi­cials try to figure out what caused the blast. Virginia-based Massey has been under scrutiny for a string of safety violations at the mine, though CEO Don Blankenship has defended the company’s record and disputed accusations that he puts profits ahead of safety. 
Authorities have said that high levels of volatile methane gas may have played a role in the disaster. Massey has been repeatedly cited and fined for problems with the system that vents methane and for allowing combustible dust to build up. 
During a homily in Wheeling on Sunday, Catholic Bishop Michael J. Bransfield said four years is too short a time between West Virginia mine disasters. The last was at the Sago Mine in 2006, where 12 men perished. 
“Can those entrusted with the protection of miners be trusted to fulfill the jobs and enforce the laws?” he said. “Is our technology in the U.S. mines in 2010 equal to the technology that is easily avail­able in other industries? Is it safer to travel in space than to work in a West Virginia mine.” 
At churches in the southern West Virginia coalfields, how­ever, the focus was on reflec­tion. 
Judy Walker, whose longtime friend Workman died in the accident, stood before the altar at New Life Assembly in tears, mourning the heartache of families she helped cook for this week as they awaited word of their loved ones’ fates. 
“All we can do is love on them. When you see them out, hug on them,” she said. “Just let them talk about their fathers, brothers and sons.” 
The tragedy has shaken many in this region filled with coal mines, where many people make their living in the mines or know someone who does. After all, the work is generally stable and pays better than most other jobs in the area. Indeed, Walker’s husband of 38 years, Butch, won’t tell her about his worries under­ground. 
Several followers, including the pastor’s wife, thanked the miners in the congregation for the work they do. 
“A lot of people ask, Why do they do it? Why do they go into the mines and put theirselves in danger?” said Ina Williams. “It’s West Virginia. They sacri­fice whatever they need to do to support their families.” 
She then turned to her hus­band, a black ribbon and tiny gold cross pinned to his pale yellow shirt, and thanked him 
— not only for the work he does underground, but for the way he’s represented the com­munities along the Big Coal River this week. 
“He has shown over and over, especially this week, God’s love. He loves this com­munity, he loved those men, he loves these people,” she said. “These men are not going to be forgotten.” 


Gray whale-watchers fear population dip 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Gazing past the rolling whitecaps in the mid­dle of San Diego’s whale-watch­ing season, boat captain Bill Reese was dismayed by what he wasn’t seeing. 
“Where are the whales?” said Reese. “Where are the whales?” 
Long held as an environmen­tal success story after being taken off the endangered list in 1994, California gray whales draw legions of fans into boats or atop cliffs to watch the leviathans lumber down the coast to spawning grounds in Baja. 
But whale-watching skippers became alarmed after sightings dropped from 25 a day in good years to five a day this season. Such anecdotal evidence has left conservationists and state offi­cials worried about the whale’s future, especially now. 
The federal government’s monitoring of the mammals has fallen off in recent years. And the International Whaling Commission in June will consid­er allowing 1,400 gray whales to be hunted over the next decade. 
The decision will rely on a report that says the population is flourishing — a study critics say is spotty and outdated. 
“If you count 2,500 animals, all you really know rock solid for sure is there are more than 2,500. Beyond that you’re using models and assumptions,” said Stanford University marine biol­ogy professor Steve Palumbi. “The problem comes when you say, ‘We do know how many whales there are and we’re going to start making unalter­able management decisions on that basis.’” 



Va. proclamation sparks controversy 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — The dust-up over Virginia’s proclamation for Confederate History Month seems like a lot of noise over something that “doesn’t amount to diddly,” Mississippi’s governor said in an interview aired Sunday. 
Virginia’s Republican gover­nor, Bob McDonnell, apologized for leaving out of his proclama­tion any reference to slavery. He added language to the decree calling slavery “evil and inhumane” after being criti­cized for reviving what many Virginians believe is an insensi­
tive  commemoration  of  its  
Confederate past.  
Fellow  GOP  Gov.  Haley  

Barbour of Mississippi said he doesn’t think the proclamation was a mistake. 
“To me, it’s a sort of feeling that it’s a nit, that it is not sig­nificant, that it’s not a — it’s trying to make a big deal out of something (that) doesn’t amount to diddly,” Barbour said in the interview aired on CNN’s “State of the Union.” 
Last year, Barbour issued a similar proclamation in his state that did not mention slav­ery. He also noted that his state has a holiday, Confederate Memorial Day, that has been maintained by Democratic and Republican governors and the state’s majority-Democrat leg­islature. The state also honors the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and Confederate general Robert E. Lee on the same day in January. 
Barbour said he was not aware of any complaints that the holiday was offensive. 
“I don’t really see what to say about slavery, but anybody that thinks that you have to explain to some people that slavery is a bad thing, I think that goes without saying,” Barbour said. 
Mississippi’s events aren’t embraced by everyone. 
“I think it’s unfortunate that the governor is so insensitive to the atrocities made against African-Americans in this country by the former Confederate States,” said Derrick Johnson, president of the Mississippi NAACP. “As gov­ernor of the state with a higher percentage of African-Americans that any other, we would hope he would be more sensitive to them.” 
“We have always raised out opposition to any memorial day that would raise some type of positive light on the Confederacy that broke away from the United States,” Johnson said. “We consider that treason.” 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, April 12, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Viewpoint 
Katie Peralta Lianna Kristen Durbin Brauweiler Emily Schrank Sports 
Graphics Meaghan Veselik 
Mary Cecilia Chris Allen 
Mitsch Kevin Baldwin 
Scene 
Caitlin Ferraro 




Biking away from car culture 
As of the 1990 Census, 46 percent of Americans lived in suburbs. Our gen­eration grew up in this paved para­dise, this transportation system built for cars, supermarkets and super­sized, super-value anything. Their car-friendliness makes suburbs pedestrian wastelands and bik­ing hazards. 
In the past 20 years, several for­ward-thinking cities have built Jackie complex bike paths 

Mirandola 
as a way to combat 
Mullen
traffic and pollu­tion problems. Freckled These bike paths Thoughts serve fewer indi­viduals in the suburbs, making them sometimes cost-prohibitive in sprawl­ing areas. 
Despite the expense, we need to undertake the admittedly gargantuan task of transforming our car-accom­modating towns into biking-and walk­ing-friendly areas for our health, our quality of life and our environment. 
Once a haven for wealthy individuals who wanted to escape the cities, poverty rates in suburbs now rival city levels. A 2008 Brookings Institute study found that poverty in suburbs of the nation’s largest metropolitan areas grew over 25 percent between 2000 and 2008. By 2008, suburbs housed over 1.5 million more poor people than their respective metro areas. 
In these suburbs, getting to and from 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

work, the grocery store or the doctor is nearly impossible without a car. In order to support a livelihood, one needs a car; yet, to support a car, one needs an even bigger livelihood. Buying a functioning car for less than $2,000 is difficult if not impossible — not to mention the costs of repairs and gasoline. The majority of those with a household income of less than $20,000 spend more than 25 percent of that on transportation costs. 
Our infrastructure supports this car culture. We need to reorganize our poverty-stricken suburban communi­ties to make them bike-and pedestri­an-friendlier in order to help individu­als who cannot afford cars get around without one. The average bike costs less than $200 — less than one-tenth the average car — and the only fuel bikes need is human caloric energy. Since most of America’s poor fall vic­tim to obesity due to low costs of unhealthy food, biking could save them on both gas money and hospital bills. 
In order to make bike transportation possible in spread-out suburbs, we need to change the infrastructure of communities — no small or easy task. But this is an investment we need to value and prioritize. More than 79 percent of Americans consider side­walks and bike paths as important fac­tors in where they choose to live; we need to bring these amenities to those who don’t have the financial means to choose to be near them. 
Improving bike paths and pedestrian infrastructures will also improve air pollution in major metropolitan areas. The Clean Air Council estimates that auto emissions account for 31 percent of carbon dioxide emissions and 81 percent of carbon monoxide emissions in metropolitan areas. Decreasing automotive traffic would therefore improve air quality, saving cities money they would otherwise spend retroactively. 
Fewer cars also mean less traffic, a contributing factor to low quality of life reported by many commuters. Reducing the number of cars during peak traffic hours by 10 percent would increase average car speed enough to reduce travel times up to 25 minutes. 
Bike cultures now exist for the wealthy as recreational options. Re­establishing bikes to a primary mode of transportation would help the poor in our suburbs more than any wealthy individuals. Heck, it could even help our industry; maybe GM could enter the bike-manufacturing market. 
We need bike paths for better quality of life, less pollution and egalitarian transportation options. Shifting our suburban infrastructures to support bikes more than cars will take time, but it’s an investment we can’t afford not to make. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior history and German major. She encourages bike-pooling on bicycles built for two. You can reach her at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“People who fight fire with fire usually end up with ashes.” 
Abigail Van Buren
U.S. advice columnist 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The less you talk, the more you’re listened to.” 
Abigail Van Buren
U.S. advice columnist 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Monday, April 12, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Library will be fine under proper custodian 
I wouldn’t say that our Library’s future “hangs in limbo,” for I believe the University leadership and faculty see the issues with greater clarity than “Future of Library hangs in limbo” (Sarah Mervosh, April 9) implies. Everyone supports Fr. Jenkins’ aim to “become a premier research universi­ty” and “make ourselves a strong can­didate for membership in the American Association of Universities” — and most of us realize that the Library is the area where the most work needs to be done. That will require a very substantial increase in funding as well as visionary leadership. But while every library director must be an excellent manager of both money and people, the most important credential we should be looking for is proven research experi­ence: As at Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Chicago, Stanford, Johns Hopkins and other leading universities, our next University Librarian should have at least one graduate degree in a human­istic or social science field, in addition to any degrees and publications in Library Science. That is necessary to ensure that the coming library upgrades will be managed by someone who knows from experience how researchers use libraries and what a world-class research library looks like. 
Librarians differ just as libraries do, but the key priority for us is research. In public libraries the emphasis is on circulation, but research libraries need to balance circulation with its opposite: the preservation of legacy materials. In the same way, research librarians understand that the voracious and legitimate demand for ever more undergraduate study space cannot be allowed to consume the perennial need for researcher access to books, jour­nals, manuscripts, audio-visual materi­als, microforms, specialized computers and materials located in other libraries around the world. If we try to compete with Barnes & Noble in providing cute coffee bars and comfy couches, we are certain to lose. 
Again, everyone wants our library to have the best technology it can get. But we are not a community college, where, as I know from teaching in one, instructional technology must be a higher priority than research. At other colleges where I’ve taught, before com­ing to Notre Dame, I have seen the 

Students uphold Notre Dame mission 
As members of the faculty and staff Barbara Fick at Notre Dame, we take seriously the Robert Fishman University’s mission statement, which Judy Fox says, “The University seeks to culti-Laura Fuderer vate in its students not only an appre-Agustin Fuentes ciation for the great achievements of Jill Godmilow human beings, but also a disciplined Dan Graff sensibility to the poverty, injustice Stuart Greene and oppression that burden the lives David Hachen of so many. The aim is to create a Susan Harris sense of human solidarity and con-Peter Holland cern for the common good that will Coleen Hoover bear fruit as learning becomes serv-Carlos Jerez-Farran ice to justice.” Robert L. Jones, Jr. We see it as our responsibility to Kwan Kim help students learn about the world Janet Kourany in which they live and to encourage Stephen Lancaster them to make an impact on that Cecilia Lucero world, so that “learning becomes Nicole MacLaughlin service to justice.” Joanne Mack Some Notre Dame students recently Karen Manier passed out information on campus Sara L. Maurer regarding what they believe are prac-Jim McKenna tices by the HEI Corporation that Connie Mick result in poverty, injustice and John Monczunski oppression. Their actions were Darcia Narvaez peaceful and not disruptive, yet their Felicia O’Brien informational leaflets were confiscat-Sean O’Brien ed by Notre Dame security police and Jessica Payne they are now being subject to discipli-Catherine Perry nary action by ResLife. Richard Pierce We believe that these students were Dianne Pinderhughes acting in the best traditions of Notre AnnMarie R. Power Dame and living up to the ideals Clark Power expressed in its mission statement. Ava Preacher We do not think that they should be Anita Rees disciplined by the University for doing Robin Rhodes so. We call upon Father Jenkins to Jaime Ros cancel these disciplinary actions. David Ruccio Amy Shirk Heidi Ardizzone Valerie Sayers Lance Askildson Sharon Schierling Kevin Barry Kristin Shrader-Frechette Mary Beckman Donald Sniegowski Gail Bederman John Sitter Mary Burgess Jackie Smith Annie Coleman Jim Sterba Brian Collier Rachel Tomas Morgan Mary Rose D’Angelo Steve Tomasula Jarett T. DeAngelis Barbara Turpin Jean Dibble Peter Walshe 
E. Jane Doering Andy Weigert Margaret Doody John Welle Julia Douthwaite Michelle Wirth 
Kevin Dreyer Marty Wolfson John Duffy faculty and staff Stephen Fallon April 11 
destruction that ensues when enthusi­asm for technology is permitted to upstage research needs. Privileging delivery over content inevitably degrades content, as in the old techie saying, “Garbage in, garbage out.” Weak content is not ennobled by pass­ing through impressive machinery. The idea that everything will soon be on the Internet is appealing, but even if the technology is almost there, many human factors will prevent it from being fully implemented. Financial: No one can afford the man-hours for scan­ning, the bandwidth or the server space, which is why some of the best-funded databases have already disap­peared. Intellectual property: just ask Google’s lawyers. Linguistic: Only the most important minority of the world’s 8000 ancient and modern languages are fully computer-ready. Cultural: Outside of the U.S., many librarians and archivists frankly do not want their unique material to be freely accessible on the web — they often rank preserva­tion and profit potential above circula­tion. But any librarian who is truly qualified to build a world-class research library at Notre Dame will understand the limits as well as the promises of new technologies, and will realize that printed and handwritten books, obsolete media technologies and plain old-fashioned shelf space will continue to be indispensable. With technology, the only really intimidating issue is how to pay for it. 
Since most Notre Dame professors and administrators already realize what I’ve said here, I don’t think it is accurate to present the Library’s future as problematic or riven by controversy. What we need is conceptually simple, even though getting it will require dili­gent effort by many people: Since how we grow our library will be the most important factor in achieving the President’s goal of becoming an inter­nationally prominent research universi­ty, the way forward is to hire the same kind of University Librarian that almost every top-level research university has: one with graduate-level training in the kind of advanced research that univer­sity libraries exist for. 


Peter Jeffery 
Michale P. Grace Professor of Medieval Studies April 10 



Scientific basis for homosexuality 
In response to “Exploring only human and homosexual sheep. Such genetic sexuality,” (Michael O’Connor, April 9) I experiments could not be performed on would like to assert the evidence, some of humans, for obvious reasons, but the fact which can be gleaned from other ani-that sheep show a genetic disposition to mals, for a scientific and evolutionary homosexuality suggests that it could basis for human homosexuality. plausibly have genetic underpinnings in O’Connor states that humans are signifi-humans as well. The fact that much cantly different from animals in many more closely-related primates also exhib­ways, the most significant of which lies in it homosexuality simply augments this an awareness of right, wrong and conse-plausibility. More concretely, scientists quences — essentially, the possession of have found differential levels of hormone morality. This, he claims, means we production in response to certain stimuli shouldn’t use the homosexuality between homosexual and heterosexual observed in nature to analyze human humans. From both humans and other homosexuality. Though humans do seem animals, evidence certainly exists that to be unique in the development of homosexuality has a biological basis. morality, we must remember that we are The definitive basis for human homo-animals, albeit the finely tuned end-prod-sexuality is not conclusively known; how­uct of their evolutionary chain. Just ever, to rule out facts that can be gleaned because our capabilities seem so superi-from the observation of other homosexu­or to those of other animals, however, al animals is to ignore relevant data. does not mean we are exempt from all Humans are surely self-aware, moral comparison. What if homosexuality is creatures, but evidence suggests that hard-wired in some individuals, at a level homosexual individuals are likely as fun-as fundamental as or even more so than damentally so as heterosexual individu­that of our own morality? als. To suggest that they violate human 
Scientific evidence exists to support morality by following that fundamental this notion; for example, studies in inclination is inappropriate. Oregon, Britain and other areas have iso­lated genes in sheep which, if manipulat-Michael Nokes ed, cause homosexuality, as well as dif-freshman ferences in brain morphology and hor-Stanford Hall mone production between heterosexual April 11 
The Finest scholars 
We’d like to take this opportunity to clarify some omitted information from the article run on April 9 regarding Notre Dame’s 2010 Truman Scholarship winners (“Two ND juniors awarded Truman Scholarship,” Carly Landon). Both Puja Parikh and Beth Simpson are not only beloved Notre Dame juniors, but members of the finest dorm on campus, Farley Hall. Our congratulations go out to them and their fellow Finest scholarship winner Shayna Sura, recipient of the 2010 Goldwater Scholarship. Way to represent, ladies! We are so proud of you! 
Alex Despotes Stephanie Gretsch Bethany Laubacher Erica Palag Emily Rankin Kelly Weber 
juniors Farley Hall April 10 

The Observer 



Scene
page 12 Monday, April 12, 2010 

By MARISSA FORBES 
Scene Writer 

This weekend, “Saturday Night Live” returned after a four-week break with an impressive lineup. “SNL” alumna Tina Fey hosted and teen heartthrob Justin Bieber was the musical guest — the ingredients for what was sure to be an entertaining episode. 
Fey made an appearance in each skit, save Fred Armisen’s opening parody of President Barack Obama that detailed the fear of privacy invasion surrounding the 2010 Census. Armisen went through the “simple, straightforward” questionnaire with inquiries like “If some member of this household had to die, so that others might live, who should that be?” 
Though hilarious, Fey’s following com­mercial was on a whole other level of funny. Advertising for “Brownie Husband,” Fey flaunted an easy man-shaped dessert to sat­isfy any lonely, middle-aged woman. 120 calories­per-serv­reality. The punchline hit when Bieber real­ized the weird yearnings of his teacher and Fey defended herself with the excuse, “I’m very lonely and I would like to give you a bath.” Creepy? Completely, but it was anoth­er sidesplitting performance by Fey. 
The classic “Weekend Update” followed, with appearances by the devil himself, who managed to find people more evil than him­self in the world; Aunt Linda, the movie crit­ic whose favorite recent film was Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson’s “The Tooth Fairy” and Fey as the “Women’s News” reporter. During her stint on the “Update” Fey made a feminist statement against all of the cheaters in the world, insisting the “Oscar curse is just a lady curse” and criticizing men like Sandra Bullock’s husband Jesse James. 
Some of the last skits included a weaker Al Roker parody by Kenan Thompson, where Fey appeared as the crazy Dina Lohan to promote “Checkles,” her new chest-freckle concealer, the prom of a nerdy teenager (Nasim 

ing, 500 
Pedrad) servings-obsessed per-man, with her Fey’s mom (Fey), compan-and a bar ion could scene about appeal to Lolene, a “ c r a v -nine -inch ings in tall hooker y o u r (Fey). m o u t h Bieber’s andyour musical soul.” perform ­
S o o n ances were a f t e r , predictable, F e y with backup assumed dancers 
her striking Sarah Palin persona to discuss all the new shows to be aired on the upcom­ing Sarah Palin Network. Exaggerating fears of the actions of the Obama administration with shows such as “My Daughter Only Sprained her Ankle, You Can’t Seriously be Considering Euthanizing Her” and “Tea Party Wheel of Fortune,” Fey’s Palin impres­sion was comedic gold. As “SNL” sarcasti­cally promoted a network with “All Palin, all the time!” the audience should have been chanting “All Tina, all the time!” 
In the next sketch, Fey portrayed a teacher who had subconscious longings for one of her charming students, played by Bieber. The teacher couldn’t help but think Bieber’s “smile was like watching a baby bunny sniff a tiny flower” and, each time these thoughts crossed her mind, the class­room lights dimmed and Bieber broke out into a song-fantasy for Fey. He crooned ridiculous desires of the teacher —“I’ll buy you a Panini, and some Spanx to make you teeny”— and then she would snap back to 
twice his age embarrassingly jumping around behind him as he sang “Baby” and “U Smile.” He’s pretty cute, but there is not much more to say about this him as a musical guest. However, he did well for a 16-year old, maintaining composure in the two skits he was able to participate in. 
Overall, the show was a refreshing change with the addition of Fey’s strong female presence. Currently, male cast members like Andy Samberg and Seth Meyers tend to overshadow the less tenured females on “SNL,” with the exception of Kristen Wiig, who holds her own against the men in her fifth season on the show. But Fey stole the show Saturday, as she superbly performed each less-than-perfectly written skit she was given. 
Check out these URLs, and catch some of the best moments from Saturday night’s show! 


Contact Marisa Forbes at mforbes@nd.edu 


Observer Graphic I MARY CECILIA MITSCH 
The Observer 



Scene
Monday, April 12, 2010 page 13 

Going into The Roots/Mike Posner concert Saturday, I didn’t really know what to expect. I had never heard of Mike Posner before he was announced as the opener, so I didn’t know a lot about him. I liked The Roots a lot, but many of my favorite songs by them are collaborations or feature substantial guest performances, so I was wary that their live set may not be as good as their production sound. 
I showed up late and missed the first few songs of the Mike Posner concert, but what I saw was good. He worked the crowd, encouraged partici-
Declan Sullivan

pation and did everything a good entertainer should do. Honestly, however, it just wasn’t memorable. I remember having a good time during his set, but there were no spe-
Scene Writer 

cific moments that I remember because of him — I remember Notre Dame concert security, but that’s for later. Again, it wasn’t a bad concert: it was entertaining, but I probably won’t remember much from it a week from now. 
The Roots’ set, however, was epic. The band didn’t really adhere to a set list; instead, they took a much more “jam band” attitude towards the show. They interspersed in their songs short covers of other songs, individual musician showcases and just pure jamming. 
They were able to control how the crowd felt at nearly all times, taking the room from just chilling and bobbing their heads to raging and bouncing in a matter of seconds. The Roots are known for their amazing live sets, and now I know why this is their reputation. 
Also, their after-show demeanor — namely, the way they catered to the fans by coming out at the end to throw memorabilia into the crowd — was some of the best I’ve seen at a concert. 
The only major issue I had with the whole experience was the setting. Notre Dame does not now how to host concerts. I’ve been to concerts at home and concerts at other schools, and both the crowd and the concert security at Notre Dame were both such downers — it was the same for the Matisyahu concert. Some people in the crowd did not even seem like they wanted to be there, and even more were hostile to many actions that I find essential to the concert experience: jamming out, singing, shouting, crowd surfing and moshing, among other things. 
Concert security wasn’t any better. In fact, their main purpose there seemed to be to quash any attempt to do anything besides stand stationary, maybe allowing a bit of head bobbing and quiet talking to those around you. If this is your idea of what a concert should be, go to a jazz club or lock the dorm to your room and listen to a CD by yourself in the dark. I like to go to real concerts, not ones that make me yearn a concert thrown in Chicago, at Madison or a junior college. 
The views expressed in the column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Declan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 12, 2010 
MLB 

Posada, Rodriguez lead Yankees past Rays 
White Sox throw Hardy out at the plate to preserve victory; Halladay throws complete game to outduel Oswalt 
game in the eighth and allowed the season to tie the score. 
Associated Press 
four runs and five hits in two-Denard Span led off the third 

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — A.J. thirds of an inning. The lefty with a double, and scored one Burnett pitched seven strong gave up hits to seven of nine out later on Mauer’s double to innings and Jorge Posada and batters he faced over the two left. With two outs, Mauer Alex Rodriguez drove in two days. scored on Cuddyer’s single to runs apiece Sunday to lead the put the Twins up 4-2. New York Yankees over the White Sox 5, Twins 4 Blackburn couldn’t hold the Tampa Bay Rays 7-3. J.J. Hardy was nailed at the lead again. 
Burnett (1-0) allowed two plate for the final out when he Kotsay homered with two runs and six hits as the World tried to score on pinch-hitter outs in the fourth to pull the Series champions wrapped up a Jim Thome’s long drive, and the White Sox within one, and season-opening six-game road Chicago White Sox held off the Beckham tied the score on the trip with a pair of wins after Minnesota Twins Sunday. first pitch in the sixth inning. dropping the opener of a week-Hardy singled with two outs end series at Tropicana Field. against Bobby Jenks and took Phillies 2, Astros 1 
CC Sabathia took a no-hit bid off when Thome hit a shot into Roy Halladay struck out eight into the eighth inning of the left-center field gap. Left in his first NL complete game, Saturday’s 10-0 rout. Burnett fielder Juan Pierre retrieved and the Philadelphia Phillies gave up singles to Jason the ball on the warning track completed a sweep of the win-Bartlett and Carl Crawford to and threw to third baseman less Houston Astros with a vic­start Sunday’s game, then limit-Mark Teahen. tory Sunday. ed Tampa Bay to four hits over Teahen’s relay to catcher A.J. Halladay (2-0) scattered the next six innings. Pierzynski arrived in plenty of seven hits and retired the last 
Joba Chamberlain pitched the time, and Hardy was beaten by nine Astros in order. Acquired eighth, allowing a RBI triple to so much that he didn’t slide or from Toronto in an offseason Crawford. Mariano Rivera go barreling home. trade, the former AL Cy Young worked a scoreless ninth in a Pinch-hitter Andruw Jones winner pitched his 50th career non-save situation. singled home the go-ahead run complete game and outdueled off the Houston half with a sin-game and first since Xavier 
Posada’s two-run homer off in the eighth. Mark Buehrle (2-Roy Oswalt (0-2). gle and Bourn beat out a bunt, Nady with the San Diego Padres Randy Choate (0-1) gave the 0) pitched eight innings and Houston dropped to 0-6. The the first time the Astros had in 2000. He also became the Yankees a 3-2 lead in the sixth. Jenks held on for his first save. two-time NL champion Phillies gotten a runner to second. first American pitcher to Rodriguez doubled off the wall Paul Konerko hit a two-run improved to 5-1. The Astros loaded the bases accomplish the feat since in left field to drive in two to home run, and Mark Kotsay Oswalt also struck out eight after Halladay fielded Jeff Darren Dreifort with the Los make it 6-2 in seventh, and and Gordon Beckham had solo and allowed five hits in six Keppinger’s bunt and threw Angeles Dodgers in 1994. Nick Swisher added a solo shots for the White Sox, who innings, but lost for the first errantly to Polanco covering The 22-year-old right-hander homer in the eighth off Andy snapped a four-game losing time in his last seven decisions third. Halladay was charged issued seven walks but allowed Sonnanstine. steak. against Philadelphia. with an error. just one run and four hits over 
Burnett, who walked three Joe Mauer was 2 for 4 with Jimmy Rollins led off the Johnson scored when Cory 6 2-3 innings. He also went 2 and struck out one, worked out two doubles for the Twins, who game with a home run. Sullivan rolled into a double for 2 at the plate. of a jam in the sixth after the finished a season-opening road Philadelphia mustered only six play, cutting the Phillies’ lead to Leake also is the first player Rays loaded the bases, helped trip 5-2 and are set to open hits, its first game under 10 hits 2-1. from the 2009 draft to make his by Evan Longoria’s infield pop Target Field against the Boston this season. The Astros had runners at major league debut. The ex-single that struck one of the Red Sox on Monday. Halladay threw 111 pitches, second and third with one out Arizona State star was selected catwalks in the domed stadium Buehrle settled down after including 83 for strikes, and in the seventh, but J.R. Towles eighth overall. before falling to the field. the third inning for another earned his 150th career victory. hit a weak grounder back to the The Reds loaded the bases in 
The right-hander improved to strong start, allowing four runs He has 137 wins since 2001, mound and pinch hitter Jason the eighth inning on two singles 12-4 lifetime against the Rays, and eight hits. He walked two tying Oswalt and the Yankees’ Michaels struck out swinging. and a walk against John including 6-2 in 11 starts at and struck out one CC Sabathia for the most in the Halladay breezed through the Grabow (0-2), and Esmailin Tropicana Field. He was 4-0 Twins starter Nick Blackburn majors. eighth inning on only 10 pitch-Caridad walked Hernandez to with a 1.97 ERA in five starts (1-1) pitched 7 2-3 innings, Rollins drove Oswalt’s second es, striking out Bourn and force in the go-ahead run. against Tampa Bay last season. allowing five runs, eight hits pitch into the right-field seats, Keppinger and retiring Sullivan Jonny Gomes followed with a 
The Rays struck quickly and one walk. his 34th career leadoff homer on a groundout. sacrifice fly. against Burnett, building a 2-0 With two outs in the eighth and first of the season. Carlos Lee just missed hitting Nick Masset (1-0) pitched a lead. inning, Blackburn gave up Raul Ibanez led off the second a tying homer in the ninth, scoreless eighth inning, and 
Bartlett singled leading off back-to-back singles to inning with a double to right hammering Halladay’s first Francisco Cordero finished for the first, stole second and Konerko and Carlos Quentin. center. He advanced on Shane pitch into the left-field seats — his second save in two opportu­scored on Crawford’s single. After left-hander Jose Mijares Victorino’s single and scored on a few feet outside the foul pole. nities. Carlos Pena later grounded into replaced Blackburn, White Sox Carlos Ruiz’s groundout to He flew out to center on the Chicago’s Tom Gorzelanny, a force play to drive home manager Ozzie Guillen sent make it 2-0. next pitch. acquired from Pittsburgh on Crawford. Jones to bat for Kotsay. Jones Oswalt shut down the high-Blum grounded out and for-July 30th, was sharp in his first 
Curtis Granderson’s RBI dou-singled to left and Quentin powered Phillies’ offense after mer Phillies third baseman start of the season. The left­ble began New York’s comeback scored, just beating Delmon that, allowing only three run-Pedro Feliz popped out to end hander struck out seven in 6 1­against Rays starter James Young’s throw. ners and striking out five over it. 3 innings, allowing an Shields in the second inning. After pitching seven scoreless the next four innings. The unearned run and four hits. 
Shields worked six innings in innings in Monday’s opener Phillies came in leading the Reds 3, Cubs 1 The Cubs grabbed the lead in Tampa Bay’s opening-day win against Cleveland, Buehrle gave majors in runs (41), hits (63), Mike Leake pitched into the the fifth. Ryan Theriot reached over Baltimore, but was not up two runs in the first inning. extra-base hits (24) and batting seventh during his wild major for the third time, leading off involved in the decision. He led With one out, Orlando Hudson average (.337). league debut, Ramon with a walk, and moved up on 2-1 in the sixth Sunday when singled and moved to third on But the Astros couldn’t make Hernandez drove in the go-Kosuke Fukudome’s sacrifice. he gave up a one-out double to Mauer’s double, and both up ground against Halladay, ahead run with a bases-loaded Derrek Lee then lined an RBI Robinson Cano and was scored on Justin Morneau’s sin-who retired seven in a row — walk and the Cincinnati Reds single into center field. replaced by Choate. gle to center. three on strikeouts — after rallied to beat the Chicago Cubs Left fielder Alfonso Soriano’s 
Posada promptly greeted the Blackburn couldn’t hold the Michael Bourn’s two-out single on Sunday. error helped the Reds tie it in reliever with his second homer lead in the bottom of the first. in the third. Leake became the 21st player the seventh. With runners on of the season. With two out, Quentin doubled Oswalt was done after throw-since the draft began in 1965 to first and second and one out, 
It was an awful series for to left field and Konerko fol-ing 114 pitches in six innings. play in the majors without Soriano dropped Gomes’ fly ball Choate, who entered Saturday’s lowed with his third homer of Pinch-hitter Chris Johnson led appearing in a minor league into the corner. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about House 3 bed, 3 bath, new You know, at one time, I used to You love playing with that. You love 
has been sexually assaulted, we rehab/clean, so close to ND you break into pet shops to liberate the playing with all your stuffed ani-NOTICES PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit can see campus from the yard! canaries. But I decided that was an mals. You love your Mommy, your 
Notre Dame's website: Email alexrock@rock.com! idea way before its time. Zoos are Daddy. You love your pajamas. You Graduation Weekend hotel rooms: UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do http.csap.nd.edu ——————————————— full, prisons are overflowing... oh love everything, don't ya? Yea. But We have two rooms at the Hilton not go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— gradrentals.viewwork.com my, how the world still dearly loves you know what, buddy? As you get Garden Inn for ND-SMC graduation many resources in place to assist ——————————————— a cage. older... some of the things you love weekend. Rooms are available you. If you or someone you love New upscale apts. Less than 1 mil might not seem so special any-Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The needs confidential support or assis-from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR ——————————————— more. Like your Jack-in-a-Box. Hilton Garden Inn is ideally located tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 933. 2-story, 8 unit bldg. Each has Maybe you'll realize it's just a piece on SMC campus and right across 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. 2bd/2bath. GE appliances w/dish-Did you ever hear the story of of tin and a stuffed animal. And the from ND. Rooms offered at their more information, visit ND's web Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, washer. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. Icarus, who continually rolled the older you get, the fewer things you face value. If interested, email site: LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Fenced No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo ball up the hill? But when he got too really love. And by the time you get fontanaricci@mac.com http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu yard, 2-car garage. Security. Near starting. Call Holiday Inn Express close, the ball melted in the heat of to my age, maybe it's only one or 
ND. 262-332-0015. @ 968-8080 &amp; leave msg. the Sun. You're all like Icarus. two things. With me, I think it's one. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
FOR RENT 

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, April 12, 2010 page 15 
GolfWorld/NikeDivisionI Men’sGolfCoaches’Poll 
team previous 
1  Oklahoma State  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  Washington  3  
4  Texas A&M  8  
5  Oregon  7  
6  Texas  4  
7  Augusta State  6  
8  UCLA  11  
9  Arizona State  9  
10  Illinois  12  
11  UNLV  19  
12  Southern Caliornia  14  
13  Florida  5  
14  Florida State  9  
15  Alabama  21  
16  Georgia Tech  15  
17  South Carolina  13  
18  Virginia  23  
19  Clemson  17  
20  TCU  24  
21  Georgia  16  
22  Texas Tech  20  
23  LSU  NR  
24  California  18  
25  North Florida  25  

NGCADivisionIWomen’sGolf Coaches’Poll 
team  previous  
1  Arizona State  1  
2  UCLA  2  
3  Auburn  3  
4  Southern California  5  
5  Duke  4  
6  Alabama  7  
7  Pepperdine  8  
8  Arizona  9  
9  Purdue  6  
10  Florida  14  
11  Tennessee  11  
12  Michigan State  10  
13  Wake Forest  13  
14  Georgia  12  
15  Stanford  16  
16  California  15  
17  Virginia  19  
18  Denver  18  
19  LSU  20  
20  Texas A&M  21  
21  Vanderbilt  17  
22  Ohio State  22  
23  TCU  NR  
24  New Mexico  23  
25  UC Davis  25  

MLB 


Sabathia rides no-hit bid for 7 innings 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — CC Sabathia was going to lose his no-hit bid one way or another. 
Former batterymate Kelly Shoppach made Yankees manager Joe Girardi’s deci­sion a whole lot simpler, lining a sharp single to left with two outs in the eighth inning of New York’s 10-0 win over the Tampa Bay Rays on Saturday. 
“‘It makes it easy now, but there would have been fighting out there on the mound,”‘ Sabathia said after learning Girardi planned to remove him regardless of what Shoppach did because of a high pitch count (111). 

“‘I felt good, but I under­stand where he’s coming from at the same time, too. It’s the second start of the year,”‘ Sabathia added. “‘It would have been a good discussion.”‘ 
With a large contingent of Yankee fans among the Tropicana Field crowd of 29,892 chanting “‘Let’s go, CC!”‘ Shoppach’s hit on a 1­0 pitch fell cleanly in front of left fielder Brett Gardner and ended the closest call of the big lefty’s career. 
There was no visible reaction from the Yankees ace, although Sabathia (1­
0) and his former team­mate in Cleveland exchanged glances after Shoppach reached first base. 
“‘Typical looks,”‘ Shoppach said. “‘You can read faces.”‘ 
Girardi immediately bounced out of the dugout to remove Sabathia, who walked two and struck out five. The left-hander threw 69 of his 111 pitches for strikes and benefited from spectacular defensive plays by Mark Teixeira, Alex Rodriguez and Robinson Cano. 
But Girardi said he had no intentions of allowing Sabathia to pitch beyond Shoppach, who settled into the batter’s box thinking “‘OK. It’s gotta be me,”‘ to end the bid for what would have been the first Yankees no-hitter since David Cone’s perfect game in 1999, caught by Girardi. 
“‘Watching that pitch count go up and up and up, that was what was on my mind the most. Shoppach was his last hitter no mat­ter what,”‘ Girardi said. “‘He did not know that going out. I told him when he came out. It’s not some­thing you want to do, but you have to think big pic­ture.”‘ 
“‘The big picture was the month of October. You have to think ahead. You can’t be short-sighted,”‘ Girardi continued. “‘I would have loved to see him walk out with no hits and eight innings. I would have loved to see it, but it didn’t hap­pen. It made it real easy to go get him.”‘



around the dial 
MLB 
Red Sox at Twins 
4:10 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA Men’s Lacrosse 
No. 1 Virginia vs No. 2 North Carolina 
8:00 p.m., ESPNU 
IN BRIEF 
Ga. DA considers charges in
Roethlisberger case 
MILLEDGEVILLE, Ga. — A district attorney in Georgia plans to announce Monday whether he will file charges in a case of sexual assault accusations against Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger. 
District Attorney Fred Bright said in a statement Friday he has reviewed all the investigation reports and will hold a news conference to announce his decision. 
Milledgeville police Chief Woodrow Blue said Wednesday his department and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation had wrapped up their investigation into a 20-year-old col­lege student’s claim that the two-time Super Bowl champion sexually assaulted her early March 5 at a club in Milledgeville. 
Roethlisberger’s lawyer, Ed Garland, has disputed the assault claim and hired his own team to investigate. 

Penguins’ Crosby scores 
50th and 51st goals 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. — Sidney Crosby scored his 50th goal again 
— and this time it will stick. 
The Pittsburgh Penguins captain hit the magic milestone for the first time in his five-year NHL career when he scored a power-play goal Sunday against the New York Islanders with 2:57 left in the first period to give his team a 3-0 lead. 
The 22-year-old superstar, who netted the Olympic gold-medal win­ning goal for Canada at the Vancouver Games, thought he had his 50th of the season Thursday night at home against the Islanders. He was stripped of that one long after the game when a video replay showed it was scored by Bill Guerin. 
Crosby added his NHL-leading 51st goal 55 seconds into the sec­ond period on Sunday to push the Penguins in front 4-1. 
Replay review proves 
grand slam, Nats beat Mets 
NEW YORK — Josh Willingham wound up with a grand slam off Johan Santana after a wild sequence in the first inning capped by an instant replay review, and the Washington Nationals went on to beat the New York Mets 5-2 on Sunday. 
Willingham’s bases-loaded drive hit the wall in left-center and was initially ruled in play. He tried to stretch his triple when the ball got away from catcher Rod Barajas and was tagged out, leaving both players sprawled across home plate. 
After checking the replay, the umpires ruled a home run. 
Willingham followed his fifth career grand slam with an RBI double in the third inning, helping the Nationals beat Santana (1-1) for the first time since June 9, 2007. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 12, 2010 
MLB 

Bonds ‘proud’ of steroid admission 
NBA 

Nuggets add Coby Karl to roster 

Associated Press 

DENVER — Coby Karl wants his chance with the Denver Nuggets to be more than a heartwarming tale. 
The son of Nuggets coach George Karl, who is battling throat and neck cancer, was signed Sunday by Denver. 
It’s a generous gesture, for sure. But Coby Karl is hoping to show that he earned this spot, and it’s more than just a gift to his ailing dad. 
“I know that’s going to be out there,” Coby Karl said after working out with center Brian Butch, who was also signed. “But that’s the last thing I want it to be. As a basketball player, I’d like to think my skills have gotten me here.” 
Still, he can’t wait for the day his dad returns to coaching, and subs him into a game. 
Now that will be something memorable. 
“It’s been one of his goals, to coach me,” Coby Karl said. “If that’s what helps my father recover, that’s great.” 
George Karl has been fighting cancer for the past two months and recently completed an intense six-week regimen of chemotherapy. 
It’s been an arduous ordeal for George Karl, who had to have a feeding tube inserted into his stomach because the efforts to kill the tumor caused mouth and throat sores that made swallow­ing food too painful. He’s also dropped weight. 
The Nuggets coach hasn’t been on the sideline since a March 16 win over Washington. Assistant Adrian Dantley has taken over the Nuggets in his absence as the team remains in the hunt for one of the top seeds in the Western Conference. 
And while there’s no timetable for George Karl’s return, there’s still the remote possibility he may be back in the postseason. 
Not that his son has any inside knowledge. 
“He never really shows his cards,” Coby Karl said. “I know he’s in a lot of pain. He’ll say he’s fatigued. I hope (he’s back), but I don’t know.” 
Coby Karl said it was difficult being away from his dad as he went through chemotherapy. He was playing for the Idaho Stampede of the D-League, averaging 19.3 points and six rebounds a game. 
“It’s a slow process and I think he was kind of shocked how much it took out of him,” said Coby Karl, who had cancerous lymph nodes removed a few years ago. “He’s going to get bet­ter. I’m just looking forward to when he can start seeing the improvements. I think that’s when his spirits will start grow­ing and his willpower will start to show.” 
Coby Karl found out last week the Nuggets had an interest in him. Yet he kept it hush-hush, finding out he was going to be added just before his father called him to deliver the news. 
For the son, the excitement in his father’s voice was priceless. 
“He was pretty emotional about it,” Coby Karl said. 
Coby Karl was with the Cleveland Cavaliers this season before being waived on Jan. 6. He also signed a 10-day contract with Golden State, averaging seven points, four rebounds and 
3.9 assists in four games with the Warriors. 
“It was fun to get out there and prove that I can score, I can pass, I can rebound on an NBA level,” he said. 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Home run king Barry Bonds said he is “proud” of slugger Mark McGwire for returning to baseball as the St. Louis Cardinals’ hitting coach and for admitting his use of per­formance-enhancing drugs. 
“I have a really good friendship with Mark McGwire. I’m proud of him,” Bonds said Sunday. “We’ve had a great relationship throughout our entire lives and throughout our career. I’m proud of what he did. I’m happy for him.” 
While Bonds didn’t rule out also going into coaching one day, his six-minute session with the media was stopped after the question about McGwire. 
In January, McGwire ended more than a decade of denials and evasion and finally acknowledged he used steroids and human growth hormone during his career, including in 1998 when he hit 70 home runs and broke the single-season record. 
Bonds, who topped that mark when he hit 73 homers in 2001, has long denied ever knowingly using steroids or performance ­enhancers in his pursuit of the career home run record 
— arguably the most prized record in all of American sports. 
Bonds was indicted on charges he lied in 2003 to a federal grand jury investigat­ing BALCO, the Bay Area Laboratory Co -Operative, and obstructed justice. 
McGwire was told of Bonds’ comments in Milwaukee, where the Cardinals were playing the Brewers. 
“It’s very cool. Barry is a great player, was a great player in this game, many MVPs,” McGwire said. “The guy could do it all. It makes me feel really good. It’s real­ly cool to be back in the game. ... I’m a big boy, I understand that things hap­pen in your life and you’ve got to confront them, and you also have to move on from them and learn from them.” 
The 45 -year-old Bonds, back in the Bay Area for a reunion at AT&T Park of the Giants’ 2000 NL West cham­pion team, said he doesn’t believe now is the right time to retire. Though he also insists he’s not in shape to play immediately if an inter­ested club came calling. 
“I don’t have any plans at all,” he said of trying to play again. “No, it’s not necessary at the moment (to retire). The timing isn’t that impor­tant.” 
Bonds arrived separately — and more than an hour later 
— from other members of the 2000 team and walked hand in hand with 11-year­old daughter, Aisha. 
“This is weird. Where are the big guys?” Rich Aurilia asked of Bonds and Jeff Kent, whose flight was delayed because of bad weather. 
Bonds, dressed in a dark pinstriped suit and orange paisley tie, had a heavy secu­rity presence around him of police officers and ballpark officials. 
It was a flashback to a few years earlier, when Bonds was trailed everywhere by reporters and fans. On Sunday, he signed some 15 autographs on his way into the ballpark then was driven around on an electric cart. He disappeared into a freight elevator to be taken to the reception with his former teammates. 
“They got me in a freight elevator. That ’s the first time, ” the slugger said, sporting a huge smile. 
Bonds later got in the broadcast booth. 
This winter in Florida, he worked with Phillies slugger Ryan Howard on his swing. 
“I coached him a little bit and he ’s doing very, very well and hasn ’t said one thing about me yet,” Bonds said with a chuckle. “But I love him and I’m glad he’s doing well.” 
He appeared to be in great shape and said he is down to about 225 pounds from his playing weight of 238. 
“I’ve just been working out a lot, that’s all. I work out all the time,” Bonds said. “It’s been in my genes my whole life. I just don’t work out as hard anymore. I don’t lift as heavy weights anymore to be bulky. I don’t know, I’ve got that Hollywood look.” 
The seven -time NL MVP broke Hank Aaron’s home run record on Aug. 7, 2007, and has 762 career shots. Bonds has made only a hand­ful of public appearances in San Francisco since the Giants decided not to bring him back following that spe­cial 2007 season. 
Bonds isn’t sure what he would do if a team called him to play now, saying, “I would have to work out a lit­tle harder to give you any formal consideration.” 


Monday, April 12, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN’S HOCKEY 

Boston College tops Wisconsin to win title 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — The NCAA hock­ey championship trophy is headed back down Commonwealth Avenue. 
Led by goalie John Muse, Boston College won the nation­al title for the second time in three years, beating Wisconsin 5-0 in the final of the Frozen Four on Saturday night. 
Muse made 20 save to improve to 8-0 in tournament play, including the national title run he made as a fresh­man in 2008. 
When it was over Muse’s teammates tossed their sticks and helmets into the air then swarmed the junior goaltender. 
“Johnny Muse was clearly on the top of his game,” BC coach Jerry York said. 
BC won its fourth title and third since 2001, best in the nation over the last decade. The Eagles’ top rival, Boston University, took home the championship last year. In col­lege hockey’s version of the Duke-North Carolina basket­ball rivalry, BU and BC are located just a few miles away from each other on the Green Line trolley that runs along Commonwealth Avenue. 
This championship for Muse came almost a year after hip surgery, and the grueling reha­bilitation that followed. 
“There wasn’t much pain, but it was long and tedious,” he said. “I did it for these guys. I wanted to be back.” 
Cam Atkinson scored two of the Eagles’ four third-period goals to back Muse. 
Atkinson’s first and Chris Krieder’s goal came 2:02 apart early in the period and turned a one-goal game into a rout. 
“We wanted to attack and be aggressive,” York said. “We don’t like to sit back and change our style of play with the score.” 
That mindset has helped put York in elite company with four national titles, including one with Bowling Green. 
Just two coaches have more championships — Michigan’s Vic Heyliger won six from 1948-56 and Denver’s Murray Armstrong had five from 1958­1969 — and no one has more than York’s 33 wins in the NCAA tournament. 
“I’ve been at it a long time, so that helps,” York said at the end of his 38th season as a head coach, and 16th leading the Eagles. “It’s always good to coach good teams and good players, and I’ve had a whole bunch of those.” 
Wisconsin beat the Eagles in the 2006 finals for its sixth title, but didn’t have much of a shot to stop BC’s faster for­wards, swarming defensemen and stellar goalie in the rematch. 
“We got near the top of the mountain, but we weren’t able to stick the flag at the top,” Geoffrion, grandson of Hockey Hall of Famer Bernie “Boom Boom” Geoffrion, was shut down a day after winning the Hobey Baker Award as college hockey’s top player. 
Badgers  coach  Mike  Eaves  
said.  
Wisconsin  forward  Blake  


Geoffrion scored 28 goals this season to help Wisconsin enter the game with a nation-high 171 goals — averaging four a game — but he and his team­mates struggled to get pucks and bodies near the net to make Muse sweat. 


MLB 
Former Giants player admits to steroid use 
got caught.’ It is what it is.” 
Associated Press 
Benard appeared in only 65 
SAN FRANCISCO — Former games during the 2002 sea-San Francisco Giants out -son and wasn’t on the playoff fielder Marvin Benard admit-roster because of the knee ted he used steroids during problem. the team’s 2002 World Series Asked what he thought of season to deal with a nagging Mark McGwire’s offseason knee injury. admission he used perform-
Benard acknowledged his ance -enhancing drugs, steroid use to The Associated Benard said, “I don’t want to Press on Sunday, when he go down that road.” was in the Bay Area for a Benard said he didn’t want reunion of the Giants’ 2000 his remarks to become the NL West champion team. He center of attention during the said he was coping with his reunion festivities. troublesome, surgically Former teammate and repaired left knee at the time home run king Barry Bonds and thought steroids would was also in the house — com-help him stay on the field. plete with the slugger’s usual 
"Yes, I did," Bernard told entourage and security force. the AP when asked if he took Benard was mentioned in steroids. "It was what it was. the Mitchell Report released I did some stupid things. I in December 2007. should have never done them. Specifically, he was named At the time you think you’re in sections on BALCO — the doing the right thing for the Bay Area Laboratory Co ­right reason, then you realize Operative — as having you made a mistake and it’s obtained “the clear” and “the too late and you can’t take it cream” from trainer Greg back." Anderson. Benard was also 
"You’ve got to move on. It’s subpoenaed to appear before not going to change anything. the BALCO grand jury. There’s nothing that can After then-Giants manager change it, make it better or Dusty Baker, with whom make it worse than what hap-Benard was close, learned of pened," he said. allegations that Benard had 
Benard first told the San used steroids, he said he was Francisco Chronicle earlier “completely shocked.” At the Sunday he had taken steroids time, Baker had asked in ‘02. He spent all nine of his Benard if the allegations major league seasons with were true, and Benard con-the Giants, retiring after firmed them, but said he had 2003. He underwent three stopped, the report said.. surgeries on his left knee, Benard said his son had one on his right during his been approached by kids at career and later had a back school that his dad had taken operation. steroids, to which the boy 
“I think people are done said at the time, “My dad with it, but things keep pop-would never do that.” When ping up and popping up,” Isaac told his father that, Benard said of steroids use. Benard nearly broke down in “A lot of people got caught up tears. into it. I guarantee if you “That was the hardest thing could go back and ask people for me, ever,” he said. “I real-if they would change it, they ly don’t care who says what would. It’s easy to say, ‘Well, about me. They can call me you’d change it because you any name in the book.” 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 12, 2010 
MASTERS 

Mickelson wins Masters 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Even sweet­er than Phil Mickelson slipping into another green jacket was seeing his wife waiting for him behind the 18th green at Augusta National with tears streaming down her face. 
Amy Mickelson, with her long blonde hair and easy smile, had not been at a tournament since she was diagnosed with breast cancer 11 months ago. 
Her husband had not looked the same ever since. 
A shattered world seemed at peace in the fading sunlight Sunday at the Masters, where Mickelson made one last birdie for a 5-under 67 to capture his third green jacket with a three-shot victory over Lee Westwood. 
The outcome was never in doubt when he arrived on the 18th green. The conclusion was more emotional rounds, closed with a 69 and tied for fourth with K.J. Choi, five shots behind. 
For Westwood, this was his best chance at winning a major, but he failed to make putts to stay in range. 
“Phil being the champion he is hit some great shots coming down the stretch,” said Westwood, who closed with a 71 for his best finish ever in a major. “He’s been through hard times recently, and he deserves a break or two.” 
Anthony Kim closed with a 65, the best score of the tour­nament, and finished alone in third. 
Mickelson became the eighth player with at least three Masters titles, and it was the fourth major of his career, breaking out of a pack that had included Ernie Els, Padraig Harrington and Vijay Singh 
from his genera­
tion. 
Woods offset a 

than anyone “We’ve been through few signature expected. moments with 
a lot this year. It 
“I wasn't sure some poor put-
means a lot to share
if she was going ting, none more to be there,” some joy together.” shocking than a Mickelson said. three-putt from 6 
He shared a feet on the 14th 
Phil Mickelson 
long embrace hole. 
PGA golfer
with his wife “I finished 
behind the 18th green, and as he walked to the scoring trailer to sign for the lowest score at Augusta in nine years, a single tear trickled down his cheek to his lip. 
“We've been through a lot this year. It means a lot to share some joy together,” Mickelson said at the green jacket ceremony, his voice cracking has he struggled to keep control. “It's been such an incredible week, an emotional week. And to cap it off with a victory is something I can't put into words. 
“It's something we’ll share for the rest of our lives.” 
Determined to win one for his family, Mickelson made two remarkable par saves from the trees, seized control with a 15­foot birdie putt in the heart of Amen Corner and then made a gutsy play with a 6-iron off the pine straw and over Rae’s Creek on the par-5 13th to set up a birdie. It was a daring shot, the kind that has brought Lefty so much criticism for tak­ing on too much. 
There was simply no denying him in this Masters. 
His final birdie only mattered on the scorecard, 16-under 272, the lowest by a Masters champion since Tiger Woods in 2001. Mickelson had this won as he walked up the 18th fair­way to a massive ovation. He raised both arms when the putt fell, had a long embrace with caddie Jim “Bones” Mackay, then walked toward the scoring hut and into his wife’s arms. 
Standing behind them was Mary Mickelson, his mother, who was diagnosed with breast cancer in July. 
So ended a Masters unlike any other. 
It began with Woods return­ing from a humiliating sex scandal, which brought a sharp rebuke from Masters chairman Billy Payne and scrutiny of his behavior throughout the week. His wife was not at the Masters for the first time, although Woods performed as though his five-month hiatus never hap­pened. He broke par all four fourth. It’s not 
what I wanted,” Woods said in a terse interview with CBS Sports analyst Peter Kostis. “I wanted to win this tournament. As the week went on, I kept hitting the ball worse.” 
Asked about his dour mood as his game got away from him, Woods said, “People are mak­ing way too much of a deal on this.” He also said he did not know when he would return, saying he needed time off to evaluate. 
For Mickelson, it’s a celebra­tion to remember. 
During the green jacket cere­mony, Mackay sat on the grass with his legs crossed, cheeks stained with tears. It was Mackay who made countless trips to San Diego to be with Mickelson as he tried to cope with the uncertainty of his wife’s illness. 
Mackay, whose wife stood behind the 18th green with Amy Mickelson, had a hunch the end of this Masters victory would look like the other two, with the entire Mickelson clan waiting for a hug. 
“I didn’t really want to look up because I knew I’d get choked up if I saw her,” Mackay said. “It was great to see her there, for sure.” 
Mickelson was the only play­er among the top 10 to play without a bogey in the final round. Right when it looked like it might slip away from him, Lefty came through with two par saves from the trees on No. 9 and No. 10, then pulled away with the clutch 9-iron on the 12th to 15 feet behind the hole. 
Woods teased with contention by making two eagles in one round for the second time this week. Most of the day, however, he was always too many shots back to scare anyone. 
He was seven shots behind walking down the seventh fair­way, then holed out for eagle to begin an eagle-birdie-birdie run that put him within three shots. Woods hit a tree from the middle of a small forest to the right of the 11th fairway, and just when it looked as though he would make a great escape, he missed a 5-foot par putt. 
His hopes ended on the 14th when he missed a slick 6-foot birdie putt, then reached over to tap it in and missed that one. Even with an eagle on the 15th, his Masters was over. 
Whatever doubts there are about Woods as a person, his golf doesn’t appear to be suf­fering. It was his first competi­tion in five months, his first time in public since he became tabloid fodder for his rampant infidelity. Yet he performed as if he had never been gone. 
Choi’s only consolation was going all four rounds with Woods at Augusta and match­ing his score. He wanted much more, and for the longest time was poised to give Asia succes­
sive  majors  following  Y.E.  
Yang’s  win  at  the  PGA  
Championship.  

IRL 
Helio Castroneves winsGrandPrixofAla. 

Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — Helio Castroneves’ strategies were all about preservation: First the fuel and then the lead. 
Castroneves deftly managed both tasks and held off Scott Dixon to win the inaugural Indy Grand Prix of Alabama on Sunday, coasting to the fin­ish line after coming off cau­tion with two laps to go. 
The three-time Indianapolis 500 winner took over in the stretch run when Marco Andretti headed to pit road with seven laps to go. 
“I felt like I had a better car than Marco but unfortunately, I just couldn’t pass him,” Castroneves said. “And I was just patient and waiting for an opportunity. I guess we were able to be smart enough to save a lot of fuel. 
“Towards the end, we just had a yellow flag. I didn’t ask for that, especially when you have Scott Dixon and those guys behind you. I just decid­ed to make sure not to give any opportunities for those guys, and that’s what I did.” 
Castroneves then treated the new IndyCar venue to his “Spiderman” move, climbing a chain link fence in front of the grandstands and pumping his fists to the fans. He had to scout for a suitable fence to scale before the race after a fan asked him in his hotel ele­vator Sunday where he’d do his trademark move. 
“Until that point, I didn’t have anything in mind,” Castroneves said. 
He won by just over half a second over Dixon and nobody else was closer than 7 seconds to the lead, making it a two-man chase at the end. He didn’t offer any opening for Dixon to get by him on a narrow track that offers few easy spots to pass and makes fuel strategy as important as any daring on-track maneu­vers. 
“The only thing you can do is try to push the guy as hard in front of you to make him keep looking in his mirrors and overshoot a corner and make a mistake,” Dixon said. 
The savvy veteran Castroneves didn’t bite. 
Dario Franchitti was third. Will Power had won the first two races and was dominant in qualifying and practice but had to settle for fourth, still comfortably hanging onto his points lead. He came in with a 44-point lead; Castroneves earned 50 points to move into second place, ahead of Franchitti, Justin Wilson and Dixon. 


Monday, April 12, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
TRACK AND FIELD 
WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish place eighth in

Six runners post top times 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish came out of the Border Battle “Kentuckiana” event this weekend with an impressive six first places and 35 top times and distances, living up to the high stan­dards they set two weeks ago at the Mike Poehlein 

“I mostly focus on my
Invitational at throughout the Purdue, where goals and how far I race. It was they finished great to help 
can throw each day.” 
with 23 top-score some five finishes points for and four first Elise Knutzen Hoosierland.” places. Sophomore javelin Knutzen was 
Notre Dame and Indiana paired up with Indiana University to take on a University of Louisville/University of Louisville team to make it 
Hoosierland  vs.  The  
Commonwealth  at  the  
Louisville-hosted meet.  

The Irish saw first place finishes from sophomore Molly Hirt, who went 
17:06.71 in the women’s 5,000-meter race, freshman Nevada Sorenson with a time of 13.67 seconds in the women’s 100-meter hurdles, senior Joanna Schultz, who ran the women’s 400-meter race in 59.29 seconds, senior Elise Knutzen in the women’s javelin with a throw of 42.09 meters, senior Matt Schipper in the men’s pole vault at 
5.00 meters and junior Justin Schneider in the men’s javelin at 51.41 meters. 
Hirt’s first place finish was her first in the event, as she 

often runs the 1500-meter race. The longer distance did-n’t prove to be too much of a challenge for her though, especially with help from some friends cheering her on. “The thing I really did dif­ferently for this race was that I focused a lot on trying to relax and be patient,” Hirt said. “My teammates were great and helped a lot 
also pleased with the meet’s 

results, coming out with a positive tively. Freshman Rebecca 
Florida Invitational 
Tracy came in second in the women’s 1500-meter race at 4:20.18, only one-one hun­dredth of a second behind the winner, Indiana’s Molly Beckwith. Junior Kali Watkins followed teammate Sorenson closely in the 100­meter hurdles, finishing third at 14.00. On the field, junior Jasmine Williams took third place in the triple jump at 
11.60 meters. 
The Irish men also had five top-three finishes in various events. Sophomore Jack Howard and junior Kevin Labus came in within one hundredth of each other in the men’s 800-meter, taking second and third at 1:50.94 and 1:50.95. Senior Daniel 
Clark took third in the men’s 1500­
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish took eighth out of 15 teams this weekend at the University of Florida’s SunTrust Gator Women’s Golf Invitational, finishing 63-over par at 903 strokes. 
“We unfortunately had a few too many missed opportunities where we should have capital­ized, particularly around the greens,” junior Katie Conway said. 
Senior Annie Brophy once again led the team, turning out her best finish of the season with a 74. Brophy tied for 11th overall, ending the tournament at 219 strokes, nine-over par. In the last round Sunday 

outlook for “My teammates were meter at 
morning, she finished four-

upcoming compe-3:45 .24 , 
over par with four birdies, but 
great and helped a

tition. junior Denes 
was brought down by two dou­
“It’s always fun lot throughout the Veres took 
ble bogeys and a triple. Brophy 

to win, but I race” second in 
has finished in the top-15 in 

mostly focus on the men’s 
four of her nine competitions 

my goals and how shot put at 
this season with her 11th place 
Molly Hirt 

far Ican throw 1 7 . 3 9 
showing her best finish of the 
Sophomore runner 

each day,” she meters and 
2010 spring campaign. 

said. “I’m just try- s o p h o m o r e  Sophomore Becca Huffer and  
ing to build on  M i t c h e l l  junior So-Hyun Park ended the  
each meet to get ready for  Gormley took third in the  final round with seven-over  
Big East and Regionals.”  men’s hammer throw at  par 77s. Huffer concluded the  
The Irish women had five  54.47 meters.  weekend tied for 18th with  
top-three finishes, making a  The Irish continue this  221 strokes, 11 over par. She  
large impact for the team, but  week with a busy schedule,  ended Saturday in fifth place  
not enough to overcome the  heading to Walnut, Calif., for  at the head of the Irish lineup,  
Kentucky teams, who won  the Mt. SAC Relays, West  but eight bogeys in the final  
103-99.  Lafayette for the Purdue  round hurt her position.  
Juniors Kelly Langhans and  Rankin Invitational and to  However, she did have nine  
Natalie Johnson took second  Austin, Texas, for the Texas  pars on the day and closed  
and third in the women’s 800­ Twilight.  with a birdie on her final hole  
meter race, finishing almost  of play. Park’s final round  
one-tenth of a second apart at  Contact Megan Finneran at  score ensured all three of her  
2:10.01 and 2:10.12, respec­ mfnnera@nd.edu  weekend rounds to be counted  

towards the Irish team score (she had back-to-back 79’s in the first two). Park’s final score included 12 pars, five bogeys and a double as she tied for 55th at 25-over par for a total of 235. 
Conway’s final round of 80 rounded out the Notre Dame team scoring. She totaled 232 strokes for the weekend to tie her at 46th, at 22-over par. She began the weekend on a high note, ending the first round at par, marking her best round this season and match­ing her lowest stroke total in her career. Her Sunday round included two birdies, seven pars, six bogeys, a double and a triple. She had eight birdies on the weekend. 
Senior Kristin Wetzel round­ed out the Irish play. Her final stroke count of 246 put her 36­over par and tied her for 73rd place. She began the tourna­ment well with 81 and 78 strokes in the first and second round, but had difficulty toward the end, concluding with 87 strokes. 
This weekend’s competition marked the last of the regular season for Notre Dame. The Irish are now preparing for the Big East championship, which will be held on April 18 in Palm Harbor, Fla. 
“We are definitely looking forward to a strong finish in Florida, and then regaining the Big East title down at Inisbrook Resort in a few weeks,” Conway said. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 


SMC TENNIS 
Belles look to bounce back against Chicago 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of a hard ­fought 6-3 loss to Calvin last week, the Belles look to get back on the winning track tonight when they travel to the University of Chicago. 
The Maroons are ranked third in the nation, provid­ing a challenge for the Belles (8 -4, 2-1) in their second-to-last non-confer­ence match of the season. 
“We ’re hoping to play pretty well,” junior singles player Kate Grabarek, an Observer sports writer, said. “The University of Chicago is a talented team. We know they are good, and that is shown by their ranking. They’ll be solid up and down the lineup.” 
With the MIAA champi ­
onships to be held in less than three weeks, matches like the one Saint Mary ’s will be participating in against Chicago will give the team experience against tough opponents. 
“We’re bonding pretty well and getting ready for the MIAA conference champi ­
onships, ” Grabarek said. 
“We need to work on dou­bles and stay focused on singles. This time of year is busy because school is winding down and the tour­nament is approaching.” 
The match at Chicago is the first of three contests this week for the Belles. They will travel to Albion Wednesday and to Kalamazoo Saturday for two conference competitions. 
“We can’t train as hard as we normally do because of the three matches this week, ” Grabarek said. “Usually Monday is our day off, but we took Sunday off this week because of our match against Chicago. Also, it gives us only one day to prepare for Albion, which will show us where we are as a team.” 
With the end of the season in sight, the Belles have been working especially hard to improve upon last year’s conference finish of fifth in the consolation round. 
The Belles will face the Maroons at 6 p.m. in Chicago. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 12, 2010 
BASEBALL 

Inches short loses the game in extra innings 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
More than 1,000 fans were on hand to watch the series finale Sunday between Rutgers and Notre Dame and can attest to one of base ­ball’s oldest adages — it’s a game of inches. 
Tied at six, junior short­stop Mick Doyle belted a deep drive to left field that could have been the game-winner in the bottom of the ninth, but the ball fell just inches short of the fence, into the glove of an out ­stretched Rutgers ’ Pat Biserta, to send the game into extra innings. The Scarlet Knights scored in the top of the 11th to secure a 7­6 win and a series victory. 
“When you hit a line drive and it ends up being an inch from ending the game and give us some dramatics, that’s just something that hasn’t happened for us this year that could turn it [sea­son] around,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. “We haven’t had that.” 
Although luck may have been on the Rutgers side of the ball, Notre Dame (11-19, 2-7 Big East) had several opportunities to come away with a victory. Senior pitcher 



Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
Despite the loss, the Irish will continue to move forward and are working to get better every day, Corrigan said. The team’s schedule does not get any easi­er, however, as it will face Providence, St. John’s and No. 3 Syracuse in upcoming games. 
“I don’t expect to see any dif­ference in our approach,” Corrigan said. “I don’t want to see any decrease in our work ethic either.” 
Other than Krebs’ career-high performance, senior Neal Hicks, sophomore Nicholas Beattie and junior Zach Brenneman each had one goal and an assist. Freshman Steve Murphy added a goal and sophomores Max Pfeifer and Sean Rogers each tallied an assist. 
Senior goalkeeper Scott Rodgers started for the Irish, making four saves in the first half. Freshman John Kemp fin­ished the game and made six stops between the pipes. 
Although the Irish have had their ups and downs this sea­son, Corrigan said he remains focused on the team’s work ethic and improvement. 
“We need to go be best team we can be,” Corrigan said. “The job is what it is. Our job is to get the best out of our play­ers.” 
The Irish return to Arlotta Stadium Saturday to face Providence in a noon game. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


Eric Maust (0 -3) gave the Irish a chance from the mound with his best start of the season, allowing only five runs in eight innings, but picked up the no deci­sion. He had two strikeouts and zero walks. 
“That was more of how Eric is capable of pitching,” Schrage said. “He hasn ’t pitched like that all year. That’s what he’s capable of doing. He kept the ball down, his mechanics were good, and that ’s the Eric Maust we know.” 
Notre Dame jumped on the board early following home runs from senior center fielder Brayden Ashdown and junior catcher Cameron McConnell in the second inning. Rutgers (17-13, 7-2) retook the lead in the fourth inning, but freshman third basemen Adam Norton dou­bled to left field to tie it in the bottom half of the frame. 
With Maust dealing on the mound, senior left fielder Ryan Connolly hit a three-run home run with two outs in the bottom of the sixth inning that looked to make the difference in the game. Yet Rutgers would not be denied, mounting a come ­back in the eighth and ninth innings to tie the game for a second time. 
“I thought we were going to win the game,” Schrage said. “I don’t think the ball bounced our way. I don ’t think they exactly hit rockets in the ninth inning to get their hits, but the ball falls where it’s going to fall.” 
The Irish had a golden chance to put the game away in the bottom of the seventh inning when senior first basemen Casey Martin and Ashdown reached base with two outs. Senior right fielder Billy Boockford singled to center, but Martin was thrown out on a close play at the plate. 
“Your kids are only so resilient, ” Schrage said. 
“The guys are feeling snake bitten. I can understand that. We need something good to happen to build off of, and we’re still waiting for it. As a coach you got to keep positive and got to keep them thinking they’re going to win.” 
The Irish return to the field Tuesday to take on Chicago State with a 6:05 
p.m. start. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Monday, April 12, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish overheat South Florida 
weekend to promote breast cancer awareness and raise money for research with their “Strikeout Cancer” promotion. 
“It always feels really good to do our breast cancer game,” Valdivia said. “We get to wear our pink jerseys, and we love to put on those pink jerseys.” 
Notre Dame will stay home this week to face Georgetown Wednesday and Cleveland State Thursday before heading to Louisville this weekend. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
Although the Orange answered back with five goals of their own in the second half, their comeback fell short as Notre Dame was able to hold on for a 6-5 victory. The stout Irish defense of Jackie Doherty, Lauren Fenlon, Emily Conner and Kate Newall were especially impressive in holding star Orange midfielder Christina Dove to zero goals. 
The Irish now turn their sights to Big East conference opponent Cincinnati. With only three more regular season games remaining, the Irish are confident they are playing their best at the right time. 
Their attempt to repeat as con­ference champions resumes next Saturday when they take on Cincinnati at 3 p.m. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame falls 5-2 to Cardinals outside 
By KATE GRABAREK on, but they did manage to 
Sports Writer win at No. 3 doubles. The 
duo of juniors Daniel Stahl 
The No. 36 Irish headed and David Anderson were outside Saturday for their able to defeat Louisville’s first outdoor home match Sumit -Prakash Gupta and since 2008, but were not Robert Hall 8-5. able to earn a victory “David and Dan returned falling No. 16 Louisville 5-very well at crunch time,” 
2. Bayliss said. 
The Irish faced their sec-Stahl dropped his match ond straight tough opponent at No. 3 singles to give in the Cardinals after Louisville an early 2-0 lead falling 7-0 to No. 2 Ohio over the Irish. Havens State earlier in the week, a dropped his match (6-3, 7-6 
t e a m t h e y  ( 2 ) ) a t N o . 2  
k n e w w o u l d  s i n g l e s t o  
b e t o u g h t o  a l l o w  
b e a t . T h e C a r d i n a l s d i d p r o v e t h e m -selves a chal- “[Austin Childs, Simon Childs, Victor Maksincuk, Alejandro  L o u i s v i l l e t o c l i n c h t h e o v e r a l l match.  
l e n g e , e s p e -cially with the p o w e r f u l i n t e r n a t i o n a l  Calligari] play great doubles and have had a wonderful season.”  Notre Dame d i d c o m e o u t with two sin-gles victories  
p l a y e r s I r i s h  o n t h e d a y.  
c o a c h B o b b y B a y l i s s k n e w would be diffi- Bobby Bayliss Irish coach  S o p h o m o r e S a m K e e t o n g o t t h e I r i s h  
cult to face.  o n t h e b o a r d  
“ E a c h p l a y s  with a win at  
a d i f f e r e n t  N o . 5 si n g l e s  


By BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
On a weekend when the warm weather and sunny skies stole the headlines at Notre Dame, the softball team did a little heating up of its own. The Irish stretched out their cur­rent winning streak to five after sweeping South Florida in a triple-header, including a one-hitter by junior pitcher Jody Valdivia Sunday. 
The wins also kept the Irish undefeated both in games at home and in Big East play. 
“South Florida is a fun team for us to play,” Valdivia said. “Our rivalry with them really gets us fired up to play.” 
The Irish continued to hit the ball impressively, beating the Bulls 4-2, 10-1 and 2-0 over the course of the weekend. They registered eight hits in their first two wins and three in the third. 
“We did a great job of jump­ing on their pitchers,” Valdivia said. “We always took away the moment by scoring runs when we needed to.” 
The Irish also showed off some impressive defense throughout the weekend’s series. Valdivia pitched the bookend games of the week­end, including an impressive one-hit performance Sunday, and she improved her record to 22-3 on the season. Freshman pitcher Brittney O’Donnell also contributed with a one hit, one run per­formance of her own to seal up the Irish’s 10-1 victory late Saturday. 

Despite impressive perform­ances from the mound, Valdivia contributed much of the team’s defensive success to their play in the field. 
“Everyone made phenomenal catches,” she said. “There were some really great plays. Our outfield robbed them of hits and our infielders robbed them of their short game. We really kept them off balance.” 
In addition to their on-field success, the Irish used this more of an agg ressive player who gets to the net. [Victor] Maksimcuk is a big hitter who bangs from the base­line, while [Al ejandro] Calligari is a great athlete who can hurt you from both sides. They play great 
“[Blas Moros] served well at key times and did not back down under pressure.” 
Bobby Bayliss Irish coach 
Orange 
continued from page 24 
Senior defensive captain Rachel Guerrera led the strong Irish defensive effort. 
“We really knew what we need­ed to do against Villanova,” Guerrera said. “I think after win­ning at Loyola we went into Villanova knowing we were on the right track.” 


Notre Dame was able to trans­late their dominating win at Villanova into a signature victory over No. 7 Syracuse. 
Just like against Villanova, the Irish defense was on top of its game with Notre Dame claiming a 6-0 lead at halftime. 
“Lacrosse is such a high scoring sport, and so the fact that we were able to keep teams scoreless for 90 minutes is truly impressive,” Coyne said. 
“We went into Syracuse know­ing we weren’t going to be intimi­dated by them,” Guerrera said. “They’re the kind of team where if you jump on them early they’ll get crushed mentally and that’s what we did.” 
style, ” he said before the match. “Austin Childs has very solid groundstrokes and is difficult to force. Simon Childs [no relation] is 
doubles and have had a wonderful season.” 
The Louisville players proved Bayliss right, as they took the top two dou­bles matches and four of the six singles. The No. 1 doubles pair of junior Stephen Havens and Casey Watt fell to Simon Childs and Calligari 8-2, while the No. 2 team of sophomore Niall Fitzgerald and junior 
Ty l e r  D a v i s  l o s t 8 -3  t o  
A u s t i n  C h i l d s  a n d  
Maksimcuk.  

Losing the doubles point put the Irish behind early over Hall in three sets, 6-1, 6-7 (4), 6-3. At No. 6 sin­gles, freshman Blas Moros was able to pull out a win to wrap up the match, also 
winning in three sets. 
“Blas Moros played more aggressively,” Bayliss said. “He is grow ­ing before our eyes and it is rewarding to see. He served well at key times and did not back down under pressure.” 
Bayliss was 
honored before the match began for recently earning his 700th career victory. He is now one of only four NCAA Division I coaches to hold that honor. Bayliss has been the head coach at Notre Dame, MIT and Navy, and has coached a total of 41 years. 
The Irish will next host Ball State in their final home match of the year Wednesday, with the first serve set for 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 




page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 12, 2010 
Clausen 
continued from page 24 
scouts and coaches from the Rams, Seahawks, Vikings and Browns, among others. The Rams hold the top pick in the NFL Draft, the first round of which will be held on April 22, and head coach Steve Spagnuolo said he saw posi­tive things in the workout he 
wouldn’t have picked up  on  
in Clausen’s film.  
“ H e  [ l o o k e d  h e a l t h y ]  t o  

me,” Spagnuolo said. “I like the way he acts with team­mates, and you can’t see that on film.” 
Comments similar to Spagnuolo’s vague analysis have been the norm, Clausen said. 
“The teams don’t really say much,” he said. “Some teams throw things out there to off­set other people and other teams.” 
Experts have predicted Clausen to be drafted any­where from the fourth pick to the 29th, but he said he has not paid attention to the guessing games. Instead, he has focused on regaining the form he had before the injury. 
“I definitely do know [the injury] changed the way I threw the ball. I had 

the shotgun formation and three out of five deeper than 30 yards downfield. Both incompletions were deep balls intended for Parris — one of 
he is throwing off of two healthy feet. 
“He had a little zip on it today,” Parris said. “There was a pretty good difference. Jimmy looked like a com ­pletely different quarterback 

to overcom -“Some teams throw which Parris today, just his body build, pensate with dove for, with and his velocity on his 
things out there to
my arm, using no pads onto the throws.” more of my offset other people artificial turf in Clausen said his doctor arm and not and other teams.” the Loftus expects him to be 100 per-being able to Sports Center, cent within a month. push off, ” and barely 
Jimmy Clausen 
Clausen said. missed catching. Tate shines as well “Like you saw Former Irish quarterback “It was just a Despite being billed as a today, I was little far, so I Pro Day for Clausen, some able to push laid scouts in through my out attendance throw.” for assuredly 
He completed 57 of his 59 it,” Parris said. took note of passes to a receiving corps of “Usually I can Golden Tate’s former Irish running back bring that in. If “[NFL teams] like the performance James Aldridge and former it ’s out there as much as 
way I play. They see 

Irish receivers Golden Tate, and I think I can they did 
I’m a competitor.” 

David Grimes and Robby get it, I’m going Clausen’s. Parris, including five out of to go get it.” He twisted 
Both Parris Golden Tate his body in 
and Tate said mid -air to 
Former Irish receiver 

Clausen’s body language and throwing strength had changed since the football season now that pull in two 


passes near 
the sideline 
during 
Cl ausen’s workout, and toward the end blazed down the field to pull in a few 40 -yard bombs, earning appreciation from his former teammates in attendance. 
“I think I did pretty well,” Tate said. “I obviously have some work to do on my route running, but overall I think I did a good job.” 
Afterwards, a representa­tive from the Colts talked with Tate for close to 15 min­utes. 
“[NFL teams] like the way I play. They see I’m a competi­tor,” Tate said. “Obviously my height is kind of an issue, but I’m a playmaker, so hopefully someone will pull the trig­ger.” 
Just as they have with Clausen, experts’ predictions for Tate’s draft day fate have varied, but he said where he is picked is not his concern. 
“I’m just hoping I go to a team that fits me,” Tate said. “[A team] who thinks I can come in and help them right away, and hopefully take them to a playoff and eventu­ally a Super Bowl.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Practice 
continued from page 24 
coach Tony Alford said Friday the scrimmage could help distinguish some play­ers. 
“There’s a couple guys who are starting to show up a lit­tle more than others. But that’s through the course of time. We’re only six practices in,” Alford said. 
Defensive backs coach Chuck Martin also said it would take more time to evaluate players. 
“I like all my top eight to 11 guys,” Martin said. “I think they have shown signs that they can be pretty pro­ductive players at Notre Dame. I can probably put clips together to sell you on any of them, but I could also put a clip together or two and sell you that they can’t play anybody in the country. 
“We’re not really worried about the big picture evalua­tion yet, we’re just trying to get better.” 
However, Kelly said the staff is on its way to deter­mining where the players will land on the depth chart. 
“Today was movement day for a number of guys relative to positions,” he said. “We’ve got to say, ‘Alright, we can’t move him again. Here’s where he is, he stays here. Will we move him back to that other position?’ I think we’ll be able to, with this scrimmage, to really make some final decisions on personnel.” 
Now halfway through the 14 spring practices leading to the Blue-Gold game, Kelly said the Irish are beginning to show positive develop­ments. 
“We’ve still got a long way to go,” Kelly said. “But again, I think our guys understand how to practice. Today was lively, no injuries, nobody was put in a compromising position so they’re learning how to practice, which is really step one for us.” 
Martin said learning is a main objective as practices continue. 
“I think our goal with all our groups, with my group, is just to keep getting better,” Martin said. “Learn our sys­tem, learn each other, grow together, become more cohe­sive as a unit — coaches and players alike. 
“We’re level one out of 1,000 levels so we’ve got a long, long ways to go but we’re heading in the right direction.” 
Note: 
Martin, who is also Notre Dame’s recruiting coordina­tor, said his staff is hard at work finding next year’s class of recruits. 
“We started from scratch, particularly nationally, and I don’t think there’s a whole lot of kids in the country that we don’t know about, haven’t identified and haven’t evalu­ated,” he said. “I think we’re off to a good start, obviously it’s a long way to next February, but we’re excited. 
“Coach Kelly’s a great fin­isher. It’s a great sell, not only Notre Dame the school, the University, South Bend, but also Coach Kelly’s a pret­ty easy sell, so we’ll just keep working at it, try to find 17, 18 kids who want to come play football for Notre Dame.” 
Tight end recruit Nick Vannett from Westerville, Ohio, visited practice Friday. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish take out No. 19 Bulls in home match 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The third-ranked No. 1 Irish doubles team of sophomore Kristy Frilling and senior Kali Krisik won their 16th straight match in Notre Dame’s 7-0 defeat over South Florida Friday. 
“South Florida is a very good team,” Irish coach Julia Scaringe said. “They are a lot better than they were last year and I was thinking it was going to be a much closer match than it was.” 
The No. 6 Irish extend their overall record to 17-3 while the No. 19 Bulls received their sixth loss of the season. 
South Florida brought a very different team to South Bend than Notre Dame saw last sea­son, as their top three players have moved up in the lineup past last year’s top singles play­er, Janette Bejlkova. 
The No. 2 Irish doubles team, senior Cosmina Ciobanu and Shannon Mathews, were the first to finish doubles play as they defeated their Bulls oppo­nents, 8-6, just before Frilling and Krisik clinched the doubles point with an 8-6 victory. The No. 3 doubles team of junior Kristen Rafael and freshman Chrissie McGaffigan shut out their opponents to finish the doubles competition for the afternoon. 
“The girls look like they’re starting to gel with each other on doubles,” Scaringe said. “I really like the direction our doubles teams are going.” 
The first three singles compe­titions were easy victories for the Irish as two-set victories from Mathews, Krisik and McGaffigan grabbed the win. Ciobanu won the fourth singles contest as her opponent was forced to quit due to an injury. 
“We have been working on singles play a lot,” Scaringe said. “The girls went out there a took care of business.” 
Though both of the remain­ing singles matches headed into a third set, No. 18 Frilling at No. 1 singles and Rafael at No. 6 singles, each pulled through for an Irish sweep. 
With only two matches left before the Big East tournament and the NCAA Championships, the team has just a few more practices to perfect their game and prepare for the most important part of the season. 
“We’re going to get a lot of individual play in this week in practice,” Scaringe said. 
The Irish will return to the courts Friday to take on DePaul at Notre Dame’s Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Monday, April 12, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Monday, April 12, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Practice runs 

Coaches evaluate team campus for Pro Day 
Clausen returns to in spring scrimmage 
By DOUGLAS FARMER By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Editor Sports Writer 
Jimmy Clausen looked like 

Evaluation was the word of a changed quarterback 
the day Saturday as the Irish Friday as he worked out in 
held their first spring scrim-front of representatives from 
mage after two weeks of prac­more than a dozen NFL 
tice. teams. 
The team ran more than 50 Throwing for the first time 
plays as the coaching staff in public since foot surgery 
continued to assess the play-repaired torn ligaments that 
ers and their progress. slowed him for most of the 
“We’re trying to evaluate 2009 season, Clausen said 
where that best is. the operation has left no lin-
Experimenting, I guess, is one gering effects, and he is 
way to look at it,” Irish coach about “75 to 80 percent” of 
Brian Kelly said. “We’re not his full potential. 
really sure what’s going to “My toe feels great, it is 
best fit our football team. I just the top of my ankle, ” 
think we’re still in that period. Clausen said. “From being in 
I think this scrimmage allows the boot for eight weeks, put-
us to get away from the evalu­ting a lot of pressure on it, it 
ation and say, ‘OK, here’s is still weak.” 
where we believe his Clausen said because of his 
strengths to be.” ankle, he did not attempt any 
Few positions are set in significant movement in the 
stone at this point in the workout in front of various VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer spring, and wide receivers 
Jimmy Clausen returned to the Loftus Sports Complex to showcase his skills for his own Pro Day see CLAUSEN/page 22 in front of representatives from NFL teams Friday. see PRACTICE/page 22 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Team upsets rival Syracuse 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
After splitting a pair of close contests on the road at Georgetown and Loyola, the Irish returned home to turn in two of their most complete per­formances of the year, taking out Villanova Friday and upset­ting No. 7 Syracuse Sunday. 
Sunday’s match was a rematch of last year’s Big East semifinals. 
The Irish (8-4, 4-1) dominat­ed from over Villanova from the outset of Friday’s match. They stormed to an 8-0 lead before the Wildcats could even muster a shot against freshman goal­keeper Ellie Hilling. From there, the rout was on as the Irish clamped down defensively en route to a 16-0 record-mak­ing victory. The win was the first shutout in Notre Dame women’s lacrosse history and the first-ever shutout in Big East conference play. 
“The Villanova game was just an amazing performance,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “It was just a great defensive perform­ance from everybody on our 

TOM LA/The Observer Senior attack Gina Scioscia led the Irish attack Sunday with two goals and an assist in Notre Dame’s 6-5 win over Syracuse. 
team.” 
The Irish received balanced contributions on the offensive side of the ball as well, as 14 players got on the score sheet. Hilling continued her stellar play in the goal, recording eight saves and becoming the first ever Notre Dame goalie to record a shutout. 
“Ellie kept coming up with big saves to preserve the shutout,” Coyne said. “We were extreme­ly impressive on defense.” 
see ORANGE/page 21 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish not able to hold on to strong first half 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
After a stellar first half, the No. 19 Irish were not able to follow through in the second half, falling 11-8 to Big East 
foe and No. 9 Georgetown Saturday in Washington, D.C. 
The loss can most cer­tainly be blamed on the disparity in perform­ances between the two halves. Before the game, Irish 
“We played a great first half and a terrible second half.” 
Kevin CorriganIrish coach 
coach Kevin Corrigan said he wanted his team to play solid lacrosse for 60 minutes. Unfortunately, that did not happen. 
“We played a great first half and a terrible second half,” Corrigan said. 
The first half saw Notre Dame (5-5, 0-3 Big East) hit the back of the net eight times, including a career high four goals handed in by sen­ior Grant Krebs and a strong defensive performance against the athletic Hoya attack. The Irish went into 
the break leading 8-6. 
The second half was a dif­ferent story. The Hoyas rallied for five unanswered goals in the final 30 min­utes to clinch the victory and hand the Irish their third straight loss. 
This loss also leaves Notre Dame without a Big East win in the inaugural season for the conference and brings the Irish closer to being knocked out of contention for a berth in the NCAA tournament. 
see HOYAS/page 20 






