Photo Illustration by Pat Coveney and Jaclyn Espinoza 
Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 2 
COMMENTARY 

South Bend takes on vital role of sixth man 
By JARED JEDICK 
Senior Staff Writer 
The postseason is about to begin for the No. 7 Irish, who earned a No. 2 seed in the NCAA Tournament and are set to take on No. 15 seed Cleveland State on their home turf in the Purcell Pavilion. 
“We had a great season,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “But the second season starts now, and we want to have a great second season.” 
The invitation marks the 17th time in school history that Notre Dame (27-5, 12-4 Big East) has been included in the NCAA tournament and is the team’s 15th consecutive appearance. 
The Irish were upset by Minnesota in the first round last year, putting an early end to their tournament hopes. 

“I think after last year, we’re going to really concentrate on Cleveland State,” McGraw said. season fourth in the Horizon “I don’t think there’s any ques-League, but managed to put tion that this team knows what together a run in the confer-can happen. ence tournament, defeating 
“Hopefully we’ll play a little favored Butler 66-57 to earn better than we did last year if the automatic bid. McGraw said we make it to that second that the Cleveland State might round, because Cleveland come in with a lot of momen­State’s a pretty tum. good team too. “They are 
You know, “You know, everyone’s coming off of a e v e r y o n e ’s good. And at this time win,” McGraw good. And at said. “They are 
of year, you’ve got
this time of coming in with a year, you’ve got nothing to lose, you lot of confi­
nothing to lose, just go out and play.” dence.” you just go out Cl eveland and play.” State is led by 
Muffet McGraw 
The Irish senior guard have the Irish coach Kailey Klein, advantage of who paces the playing in their team in scoring home gym for the first two with 18.6 points and 7.3 games of the tournament, an rebounds per game. advantage not lost on freshman “Klein is their best player; guard Skylar Diggins. she is a really good player,” 
“It is always good to have the McGraw said. “I think she shot crowd on your side, and this about 168 3s on the season.” crowd is so electric,” Diggins Pairing with Klein is junior said. “They know that the guard Shawnita Garland, who crowd is not going to be on posts impressive numbers their side, so they are going to across the board with 13 come in and we expect them to points, five rebounds, 3.3 come out with a chip on their assists and three steals per shoulders.” game. 
The Vikings (19-13, 11-7 “They are a much faster-Horizon) finished the regular paced team, with those kinds of 

A few weeks ago, a cookie cake at the Mishawaka Meijer caught my eye. It was situated on a shelf with the other generic decorated cakes that said “Happy Birthday,” or just con­tained a few flowers. This one, right in the middle of the display, was deco­rated with an orange-frosting basketball. In blue let­ters, it read: 
“Go Irish women!” 
It was a little surprising to see that the bakery had thought of that particular message to sell a gigantic cookie. But it probably went quickly in this town. 
A few days ago, two stories in the South Bend Tribune caught my eye. Both were short staff reports containing news about the women’s team. The stories were labeled as “Notre Dame bas­ketball.” 
A little searching found a recent story about the men’s team; it was labeled “Notre Dame men’s basketball.” 
That one might have just been an oversight, but cer­tainly one indicative of the city-wide relationship with the women’s basketball team. 
The Irish are South Bend’s hometown heroes; a team the city has supported all year long, through good times and, well, Connecticut. 
It’s only fitting that Notre Dame begins its tournament road at home, as a reward to fans who packed the Purcell Pavilion for every game and sold it out six times. 
Prior to this season, the women’s basketball team had six sellouts in its entire histo­ry. Now it has 12 and looks to add a 13th Sunday for its first-round game against Cleveland State. 
“They’re our sixth man, they’re the fuel to our car to get us going,” said freshman guard Skylar Diggins, a South Bend native responsible in no small part for the city’s love of the team. Many fans have fol­lowed her career for years. 
Senior guard Melissa Lechlitner, another area native, said the community support has always been strong but was even better this season. 
“They are just excited and enthusiastic about every­thing,” she said. 

It’s fair to say that the Irish football team belongs to alum­ni, as well as to “subway alumni” and fans all across the country, who are as dedi­cated as they come. 
It’s also fair to say that the men’s basketball team belongs to the students, who proudly wear their Leprechaun Legion t-shirts and pack the arena, chanting cheers specific to each oppos­ing team. 
But the women’s basketball team truly belongs to South Bend and the surrounding area. It belongs to grown men and women in neon-green t-shirts who dye their hair, wear funny hats and paint their faces green for game day. They stand up and dance when the band plays the fight song. And after the game, they take their children to Heritage Hall, where they get autographs on anything flat enough for the players to sign. 
“Even the last game we played against UConn here [on March 1], we were down what, 15, 20 and they were screaming and cheering like it was a one-point game,” Lechlitner said. 
In fact, there was just one moment at that Connecticut game when the crowd was silent: when the announcers were declaring the winner of the “Most Spirited Section” award for the section that had cheered hardest all season long. 
The crowd was also quiet for a moment during the Feb. 14 Pink Zone game when the announcer declared that Notre Dame had raised more than $70,000 for breast can­cer research and awareness. The community didn’t stop there, though; the Irish have now toppled $100,000. 
With the exception of those two times, fans have made sure to keep the Purcell Pavilion loud and provided a great atmosphere, creating a home-court advantage that led to a 14-1 home record. 
And if the Irish add two more wins to that total this week, South Bend will cer­tainly celebrate — perhaps with some giant cookies — knowing that it helped its favorite team on the march toward the championships. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 



Irish focused on Vikings 
screens and cuts that are going to be really hard to guard,” McGraw said. 
McGraw said that the team has really been focusing on defense this week, finding ways to cover the Vikings’ fast-paced motion offense. 
Beyond working on defense, Notre Dame plans to mix things up in the tournament, develop­ing both its offense and defense to give teams something they have never seen before. 
“We’re putting a lot of new wrinkles in, a lot of nuances to the offense, a couple of differ­ent looks on defense,” McGraw said. “You can’t do the same thing.” 
If the Irish advance, they will play the winner of the match between No. 7-seed Wisconsin (21-10, 10-8 Big East) and No. 10-seed Vermont (26-6, 13-3 America East). That matchup would be Tuesday at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Wisconsin and Vermont will tip off at noon Sunday at the Purcell Pavilion, with Notre Dame and Cleveland State slat­ed to follow a half an hour after the conclusion of that game. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


Three players named All-Region 
By JARED JEDICK 
Senior Staff Writer 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins and senior guards Ashley Barlow and Lindsay Schrader each garnered all-Donne and Baylor center Brittney Griner. 
“[Diggins] is doing it all every single night, she has been incredibly consistent for a freshman,” McGraw said. “She has really had a fantastic year and wants to 


region honors, which were get better.” announced Tuesday by the Barlow said Women’s Basketball Coaches she is pleased Association. Forty players that all the will be chosen from the 52 time she has all -region nominees to put into the become members of the team working 2010 State Farm Coaches’ hard has final­All-America Team. ly paid off. 
This is the first time in “I feel like team history that three people are Notre Dame players have noticing what I received this honor in the am doing. It is same season. The Irish have a big accom ­focused on just doing the lit­tle things every game that give her team a better shot at winning the game. 
“I was pretty shocked [about earning all -region honors],” Schrader said. “I always consider myself a really blue ­collar kind of 

“I feel like people are player. I am 
not going to 

noticing what I am 
score twenty doing. It is a big points for you, accomplishment for but I will do all the little 
me.” 
things for you: rebound, set a Ashley Barlow good screen, senior guard and all the lit­
tle things for 
you.” 
Notre Dame is among just three teams in the country with three all-region selec­tions. The other two are top-seeded squads Connecticut and Tennessee. 

Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
only fielded multiple selec­tions three times in their history, and only ten differ­ent players have earned the honor. 
Diggins is one of just three freshman this year to earn the honor, along with Delaware forward Elena plishment for me,” Barlow said. “I have been working really hard, so I feel like I got rewarded this year. It is a really big honor.” 
Schrader has been McGraw’s go-to player all year when she has needed a big shot, but Schrader is 

Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 



A ‘sense of urgency’ 
Leading Notre Dame’s attack, five seniors get their final crack at the NCAA Tournament 
Final Four, as the No. 2 seed with less than a minute to 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
in the Kansas City Region. But play, Barlow hit the game-
Sports Writer 
unlike the team from a year winning 3 after missing her ago, this year’s squad fea-previous four attempts. 
Despite the buzz traditional-tures five seniors not willing “She’s got such a great per­ly associated with March to finish their collegiate sonality, and obviously every-Madness, Notre Dame’s NCAA careers just yet. one sees what she does on the Tournament run last year “Last year we lacked that court,” senior guard Melissa could not have been more sense of urgency in terms of Lechlitner said. “She brings anticlimactic. There was no ‘This is our last game,’ so much to us offensively, confetti pouring from the ceil-because we had no one grad-grabbing that huge rebound ing, no unruly fans rushing uating,” senior or making that the home court — just a first-forward Erica clutch shot. round defeat at the hands of Willi amson Just the epito-No. 10 -seed Minnesota in said. “With five me of what a front of a stunned home people who are “We just get along senior should crowd. saying ‘This is with each other, we do.” 
While that scene never my last chance Each brings a
know how to work
made the Irish postseason to wear a Notre unique set of 
well with each other.” 
highlight film, the defeat has Dame uniform,’ skills to the become ingrained in the we’re going to floor that gives memory of those on the court. go out and play Ashley Barlow Irish coach “I don’t think it’s ever been to the best of Muffet McGraw 
senior guard
fully behind us,” senior guard our ability.” an arsenal of Lindsay Schrader said. “It’s They are a plays and styles always been in the back of unit of five sen-to keep the 
our minds because that ’s iors. Or maybe opposition on where our motivation came three guards, a forward, and its heels. Perhaps just as from, that’s why we worked a hybrid that can play any important, practicing and so hard this summer because position on the floor. Or playing in the Big East togeth­of that and how we felt. We maybe two fierce competitors, er for four years has given never want to feel like that two unselfish distributors, them the opportunity to feed again.” and a motivator that brings off each other’s talent. PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Yet with no seniors on the out the team’s best. Whatever But their greatest asset to Irish senior Lindsay Schrader lines up her shot during Notre 2009 team, no tears of disap-classifications are thrown on the team may be the seniors’ Dame’s 97-53 victory over Indianapolis in a preseason game. pointment were this year’s ability to develop the fresh-shed. Watching g r a d u a t i n g men and sophomores into the season average. she’s there.” the Sweet 16 class, one unify-legitimate competitors on “I felt so helpless,” A starter for the majority of bid be decided “Last year we lacked ing thread can both ends of the court. Schrader said. “I’m not the her career, Williamson has on their home be used to Guard Skylar Diggins has sitting on the sidelines kind of seen a steady reduction in 
that sense of urgency
court could describe them turned one of the best fresh-person, I have to be doing playing time this season due have been a in terms of ‘This is all. man campaigns in program something. When I saw my to the emergence of junior demoralizing our last game,’ “First and history, and it’s not over. teammates out there needing forwards Becca Bruszewski experience, but foremost, I McGraw credits Diggins’ rapid help and I couldn’t do any-and Devereaux Peters into 
because we had no
the desire to think all of us development into an All-Big thing, I felt so playmakers in make a return one graduating.” bring leader -East Second Team honoree to bad, sick to my the post. was fueled that ship, ” senior the experience and maturity s t o m a c h “I think the steady Despite the day. guard Ashley of her veterans. because I felt so obvious temp-
Erica Williamson 
hand that we offer for
“If I was a Barlow said. “I think that’s so important helpless.” tation to throw 
senior forward 
senior last year “We’ve been because she’s learning shots A l t h o u g h them allows them to in the towel, I would have here four years, from the upperclassmen, ” tempted to play within Williamson has been very, very some of us even McGraw said. “They’re help-blame herself taken the high 
themselves and excel
disappointed with the way we five. We just get along with ing her, they let her be cre-for the only loss road. went out,” Schrader said. each other, we know how to ative and play her game, and of the season, from that point.” “She’s really “And good thing we didn’t work well with each other.” still they communicate well Schrader said stepped up and have any seniors because I Barlow’s leadership was put with her. She just fits in so she had to is always doing 
Melissa Lechlitner 
would have felt bad for them. to the test in one of the tough-well with everything and remind herself everything she 
senior guard
This year, I just want to end est stretches of the season, a everyone.” to take a posi-can for the my career on a win.” two-game road trip beginning Lechlitner believes the abili-tive approach to t e a m , ” 
To do that the Irish will with a matchup against ty of the seniors to maintain the setback, the same Lechlitner said. “She’s proba­have to make it to San Syracuse in the hostile their composure and poise in approach she took when she bly one of the most unselfish Antonio, the site of this year’s Carrier Dome. Down by two the midst of a difficult situa-tore her ACL her sophomore players on this team and will 
tion has been especially help-season. Grateful for the put her body on the line and ful to their teammates, who opportunity to play in the do absolutely everything she look to follow in their exam-tournament, Schrader now needs to do to help us be suc­ple. looks forward to a second cessful.” 
“We’re just a steady force,” chance at defending the home Walk-ons seldom get playing Lechlitner said. “When adver-floor. time at the collegiate level. sity’s thrown or a game might “It wasn’t my fault that I Senior guard Alena be getting tight or we’re down got hurt,” Schrader said. “I Christiansen is no exception, a little bit, I think the steady just had to keep telling myself yet she has managed to posi­hand that we that any given tively impact her team in a 
offer for them night anybody rarely appreciated position. allows them to can go down. “She’s found a great role for play within You just have herself,” McGraw said. “She’s 
“I just want to make
themselves and to put the best the first one off the bench excel from that it to San Antonio, of your abilities cheering, giving everyone a point.” that’s my bread and to the time that pat on the back and encour-Every season you have it and agement if they’re not playing 
butter right now.” 
has its ups and take nothing well.” down and every for granted.” The seniors will leave quite team must deal Lindsay Schrader But Schrader a legacy on the women’s bas-with the possi-is just one link ketball program, one that 
senior guard
bility of injury. in McGraw ’s includes four tournament When Schrader f o u r -g u a r d appearances and a trip to the sprained her offense. A nat-Sweet 16 in 2008. However, ankle in the ural point they still have some unfin­first half of a victory over guard and the unanimous ished business. DePaul, that possibility leader on offense, Lechlitner’s “I just want to make it to became a reality. ball -handling skills are a San Antonio, that’s my bread 
Notre Dame became a complement to her drive and and butter right now,” noticeably different team on outstanding work ethic. Schrader said. “If I can do both ends of the floor without “She’s the leader of this that, I would say I had a very the fifth-year senior at the team,” Williamson said. successful year hands down. helm. The Irish dropped con-“She’s the heart and soul. Actually that’s all the girls. secutive road games to No. 18 When she’s on the court you Everybody wants to go to San St. John ’s and No. 13 can tell that everything else Antonio.” 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Georgetown, averaging 10 has calmed down. When she’s 


Senior guard Ashley Barlow dribbles the ball during Notre points fewer on offense while playing you can tell that we Contact Chris Masoud at Dame’s 90-66 victory over DePaul on Feb. 14. giving up 14 more points than play so much better because cmasoud@nd.edu 
Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 4 

JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 


Predicting the NCAA run 

Laura Myers 
Prediction: Notre Dame loses to Stanford in semifinals 
When asked if she could have drawn a better brack­et for her team, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said: “I would’ve put us in a bracket with all 15-and 16­seeds.” 
That means no. 
While the team will not look past its opening-round opponents, the two home games should be a breeze. 
This year’s Irish have two things they didn’t have when they were shocked in the 2009 first round: an increased focus drawn from that early exit, and Skylar Diggins. 
Combine those with a bracket whose other top teams are No.3-seed Oklahoma, which the Irish have beat, and No. 1-seed Nebraska, the best possible draw for the Irish, and the road to San Antonio looks pretty clear. 

Chris Masoud 

Prediction: Notre Dame loses to Stanford in semifinals 
Notre Dame’s fast-paced offense and aggressive style on defense will be too much to handle for its early-round opponents. Beginning with the statement win over Cleveland State, the Irish break in Purcell Pavilion’s post­season debut in style. Freshman phenom Skylar Diggins will give the home fans what they want to see, as she should have no trouble tearing up opposing defenses. Don’t be surprised if she averages over 20 points a game. 
The highlight of the NCAA tournament comes in the Sweet 16, when the Irish beat Nebraska in a matchup of the top two seeds in the region. Nothing the Cornhuskers have seen in the Big 12 will prepare them for McGraw’s four-guard offense. 
The Irish run ends in the Final Four. Notre Dame lacks depth in the post. An almost certain meeting with Stanford should exploit that weakness. 

Jared Jedick 

Prediction: Notre Dame loses to Connecticut in championship game 
Notre Dame’s depth will help them easily roll past their early opponents, Cleveland State and likely Wisconsin, but once they meet a team that can match their bench, things will get a lot more difficult. It all comes down to how well freshman Sklylar Diggins can play in her first ever NCAA tournament. If she turns it on and consistently produces 20 points a game the Irish could challenge to reach the cham­pionship game, where juggernaut Connecticut will await for a fourth time. If she cannot, it will be an early exit for Notre Dame. 
I see a Skylar Diggins ready to take that next step and begin to build her legend. Expect Notre Dame to gain early momentum at home and carry that all the way to the championship game, topping Big 12 sweetheart Nebraska and powerful Stanford along the way. The championship game is another story. 



